LIBRARY 


urn  of  Modern  Art 


Scanned  from  the  collection  of 

The  Museum  of  Modern  Art  Library 


Coordinated  by  the 

Media  History  Digital  Library 
www.mediahistoryproject.org 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2012  with  funding  from 

Media  History  Digital  Library 


http://archive.org/details/photo40chic 


inv     iiuiiuiiui    V7  u  i  u  «;     ■»    munvii     riviur 


* 


^r 


/' 


a 


t,r 


QUIT  PICKING 


on    me       says 


Winners 
of  $5,000. 

Puzzle  Contest 


FOUND    AT    LAS 

The  One  Contented  Man 

In   Hollywood 


MM 


LUCKY  STRIKE  — the  finest  cigarette  you  ever 
smoked/  made  of  the  finest  tobaccos — the  Cream 
of  the  Crop—  THEN  —  "IT'S  TOASTED/7  Everyone 
knows  that  heat  purifies  and  so  TOASTING  re- 
moves harmful  irritants  that  cause  throat  irritation 
and  coughing.  No  wonder  20/679  physicians 
have  stated  LUCKIES  to  be  less  irritating!  Every- 
one knows  that  sunshine  mellows  —  that's  why 
TOASTING  includes  the  use  of  the  Ultra  Violet  Ray. 


AND 

HOLDING 

THEM 

—  is  the  secret  of 
success  in  business" 
Says 

GEN.  SAMUEL 
McROBERTS 

Chairman  of  the  Board,  Chatham  Phenix 
National  Bank  and  Trust  Company 

Director,  Armour  &  Co..  American  Sugar  Refining 

Co.,  National  Surety  Co..  Kama.  Citv  Southern 

Railway;   Brig.  General,  A.  E.  F. 

"Making  friends  and  holding  them,  by 
a  friendly  up-to-date  usefulness,  is  the 
secret  of  success  in  business.  This  axiom 
has  been  the  guiding  force  in  the  prog- 
ress of  the  Chatham  Phenix  National 
Bank  and  Trust  Company.  And  it  is 
obviously  the  guiding  force  in  your 
business— as  evidenced  by  your  use  of 
the  Ultra  Violet  Ray  in  the  'Toasting' 
of  the  LVCKY  STRIKE  tobaccos." 


6* 


M 


It's  toasted 

Your  Throat   Protection  —  against  irritation  —  against  cough 

Consistent  with  its  policy  of  laying  the  facts  before  the  public.  The  American  Tobacco  Company  has  invited  General  Samuel  McRoberts  to  review  the  reports 
of  the  distinguished  men  who  have  witnessed  LUCKY  STRIKE'S  famous  Toasting  Process.  The  statement  of  General  McRoberts  appears  on  this  page. 

.-.  1930.  The  American  Tobacca  Co  .  Mlrs. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  January,  1931 


Pink  tooth  brush 


Time  to 
call  a  halt 
on  that  / 


IT'S  no  joke,  at  any  age,  to  find  a  trace  of  "pink"  upon 
your  tooth  brush.  For  it  always  means  that  your  gums 
are  soft  . . .  "touchy"  .  .  .  inclined  to  bleed;  and  it  some- 
times means  that  gingivitis,  Vincent's  disease  or  even 
pyorrhea  are  on  the  way. 

Tender,  soft  foods,  hurried  eating  and  too  little  chewing 
are  the  principal  causes  of  weak,  tender  gums.  A  slight 
bleeding  warns  you  that  more  serious  infections  may  be 
getting  a  foothold,  and  that  unless  you  get  after  the  trouble 
promptly,  you  may  run  the  risk  of  losing  the  whitest  and, 
outwardly,  the  soundest  teeth ! 

Strengthen  your  gums  with  Ipana  and  massage 

So  protect  your  gums,  with  Ipana  and  massage,  when  and 
while  you  clean  your  teeth.  That's  the  modern  way  to  oral 
health.  To  do  this  is  simple  and  easy.  You  massage  your 
gums,  with  Ipana,  each  time  you  brush  your  teeth. 

Thousands  of  dentists  recommend  this  healthy  habit. 
They  know  the  good  it  does.  For  Ipana  contains  ziratol,  a 
preparation  professionally  well-known  for  its  efficacy  in 
toning  and  stimulating  tender  gum  tissue. 

Massage  with  Ipana  keeps  gums  firm  and  sound.  It  puts 
the  fresh,  clean  blood  to  work — sends  it  coursing  through 
the  tiny  cells  —  tones  and  strengthens  the  walls  of  the 
gums.   Soon  they  become  pinker,  harder  and  healthier. 

You'll  like  Ipana.  You'll  like  its  taste,  and  the  delight- 
ful sensation  of  cleanliness  it  leaves  in  your  mouth.  And 
you'll  be  amazed  to  see  how  clean  and  white  it  keeps 
your  teeth — how  strong  and  firm  it  keeps  your  gums. 

Start  tonight  with  Ipana.  Get  a  full-size  tube  today  from 
the  nearest  druggist.  Money  cannot  buy  a  better  dentifrice, 
and  that  kind  of  dentifrice,  like  a  good  dentist,  can  never 
be  classed  as  a  luxury ! 


BRISTOL-MYERS  CO.,  Dept.  1-11 
73  West  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
CHECK    "PINK   TOOTH    BRUSH"       TT    TT*      A      \T      A  Kindly  send  me  a  trial  rube  oflPANA  TOOTH  PASTE.  Enclosed 

■-^    /%      l^^l      /%  is  a  two-cent  stamp  to  cover  partly  the  cost  of  packing  and  mailing. 

WITH         J.   J.    JLV±1|-Z1l. 

Nm 

TOOTH   PASTE         w 

City State-    

When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  January,  1931 


MOROCCO 


Reckless   soldier   of 
fortune,  Gary  Cooper. 
Adolphe  Menjou,  so- 
phisticate, man  of  the 


with 
GARY  MARLENE  ADOLPHE 

COOPER   DIETRICH    MENJOU 


In  "Morocco"  Para- 
mount presents  the 
continental  star,Mar- 
lene  Dietrich,  whose 


Directed  by 

world.  A  flaming  cafe  beauty,    JOSEF   VON    STERNBERG  rav'sm'n9  beauty  and  exotic 

MarleneDietrich...mysterious,    Adapted  by  Jules  Furthman.  From  the play  personality  will   electrify  all 

alluring,    dangerous    as    the  "Amy  Jolly"  by  Benno  Vigny.  who  come  under  her  spell.  A 

Sahara.  "Morocco,"  the  tur-  not-to-be-missed  Paramount 

bulent  story  of  these  three.  ~-;iaat;;—  Picture,  "best  show  in  town." 


^paramount        Cpidurei 


paramount    publix   corporation,   adolph    zukor,    pres.,    paramount   BLDG.,   NEW   YORK 

Evei:  ni   In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


PLAY 


The  World's  Le  ;i  <l  i  a  g  Mol  io  n   I'  i  c  i  u  r  e   Publii  a  i  ion 


Vol.  XXXIX  No.  2 


JAMES   R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publisher 


January,  1931 


Leonard  Hall,  Managing  Editor 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  for 
the    best    picture   of   the    year 

1920  192T  1926 

"HUMOR-         "The  "BEAU 

ESQUE"    COVERED         GESTE" 
WAGON" 

1921  1924  1927 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 


1922 

192i 

1928 

"ROBIN 

"THE  BIG 

"FOUR 

HOOD" 

PARADE" 

1929 

"DISRAELI" 

SONS" 

Information  and 

Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets 6 

Friendly  Advice  on  Girls'  Problems  16 

Hollywood  Menus 91 

Questions  and  Answers 92 

These  New  Faces 103 

Addresses  of  the  Stars 125 

Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 126 


High- Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots James  R.  Quirk  29 

"Quit  Pickin'  on  Me!"  says  Clara  Bow Paul  Jam's  32 

"He's  Getting  Too  Old  For  Me!" 36 

"She  Just  Steals  Every  Picture" 37 

Chatterton  and  Barrymore  Lead  the 

Screen  in  1930 Leonard  Hall  38 

She  Eats  and  Tells! Katlterine  Albert  40 

News ! — Views ! — Gossi  p ! — 

of  Stars  and  Studios Cal  York  42 

Hollywood's  Only  Contented  Man Rosalind  Shaffer  48 

They  Hitch  Their  Wagons  to  Stars Robert  Fender  7> \ 

Here  Are  $5,000  Contest  Winners 56 

Mary  Pickford  Denies  All ! Katlterine  Albert  60 

Whose  Baby  Are  You? 70 

Be  Careful  of  Your  Colors H.  M.  K.  Smith  71 

Amos  'n'  Andy  Go  Hollywood Sara  Hamilton  78 

The  Stage  Kids  the  Screen 88 

Studio  Rambles Frances  Kish  128 


Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 8 

The  Shadow  Stage 50 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 121 


Personalities 

Wedding  Bells! 31 

Ex-Millionaire Tom  Kent  35 

Gone — Another  Ingenue Miriam  Hughes  41 

A  Great  Trouper  Comes  to  Town Elaine  Ogden  59 

"Willy"  to  His  Mother Marquis  Busby  65 

Gr-r-r-r-r ! Harry  Lang  66 

Hell's  Angel Leonard  Hall  69 

John  Boles  Confesses Harry  Lang  73 

Mr.  Brook  Hates  Tea Michael  Woodward  77 

By  Time  and  Tears Janet  French  81 

Welcome  Home,  Clara! Dolores  Foster  82 


Short  Stories 

Go  West,  Young  Love ! Beth  Brown     46 

The  Morality  Clause Sada  Cowan     67 


Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 
Editorial  Offices.  221  W.  57th  St..  New  York  City  Publishing  Office.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

The  International  News  Company,  Ltd.,  DistributingAgents.  5  Bream's  Building.  London.  England 

James  R.  Quirk.  President  Robert  M.  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathryn   Dougherty.  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  S2.50  in  the  United  States,  us  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba:  $3.00  Canada:  S3. .SO  for  foreign  countries.    Remittances 

should  be  made  by,  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.     CAUTION — IV>  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24.  1912.  at  the  Postoffice  at  Chicago.  Ill  .  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879. 

Copyright,  1930.  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company-,  Chicago 


Brickbats  &f  Bouquets 


The  $25  Letter 

Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

TTO  whomever  is  concerned  with  censor- 

*■  ship,  I  beg  to  suggest  that  it  is  the  press 

which  needs  restraint  and  not  the  pictures. 

Our  American  audiences  are  essentially 
the  only  censors  needed  as  far  as  morals  are 
concerned.  They  respond  consistently  to 
the  best  and  most  worthy  productions.  Not 
even  lurid  box-office  titles  can  do  much  for 
vulgar  or  insipid  pictures. 

Newspapers,  however,  delight  to  front- 
page any  unfortunate  sequence  in  the  life 
of  any  movie  star — the  brighter,  the 
quicker !  Daily  instances  of  generosity,  loy- 
alty and  decency  among  the  movie  colony 
are  passed  up  by  the  yellow  sheet.  But  let 
some  actor  who  has  worked  hard  and  won 
a  place  in  popular  favor  make  one  error  in 
judgment  and  it  is  hot  news.  We  can  al- 
ways "see  by  the  papers." 

Let  us  judge  men  and  women  of  the 
screen  by  their  performances  on  the  screen, 
and  not  by  their  private  lives. 

E.  D.  Russell 


The  810  Letter 

Boston,  Mass. 

T\  THAT  is  wrong  with  the  fans,  always 
**  complaining  about  the  talkies?  The 
talkies  are  only  three  years  old  and  they're 
improving  all  the  time.  Prohibition  is  thir- 
teen years  old  and  it  hasn't  improved  a 
particle.    Think  it  over. 

Catherine  Finn 

The  85  Letter 

Albany,  N.  Y. 

THHRE     is     too    much     talking     in     the 
tillLipc 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Re al    Critics 

PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten  and   Five  Dollar  Prires   for  the 

Best    Letters 


Just  plain  spiteful  letters  won't  be  printed,  for  we  want 
to  be  helpful  when  we  can.  Don't  write  more  than  200 
words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your  name 
and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't  write. 
Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  Photoplay,  221  West 
57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the  right 
to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations.  Come  on  in 
and  speak  your  mind! 


Fun  Is  Fun 

Little  Rock,  Ark. 

T  AM   pleading   most   earnestly    for   more 
■*■  pictures  with  sad  and  tragic  endings. 

I  suppose  I  am  old-fashioned  but  the  sort 
of  picture  in  which  the  heroine  is  very  deli- 
cate and  is  more  sinned  against  than  sin- 
ning, and  succumbs  in  the  end  to  some  fear- 
ful disease  with  a  repentant  lover  at  her 
bedside,  appeals  to  me  as  nothing  else  pos- 
sibly could. 

Marie  Sinico 


A  Prophecy 

Evanston,  111. 

""THERE'S  learnin'  in  the  movies. 
*■  Coming  from  Kansas  to  Chicago,  I 
expected  to  be  bewildered  by  the  city,  but 
no,  it's  just  like  the  pictured  city  life,  and 
the  talkies  have  interpreted  the  sounds  so 
that  they  seem  quite  natural. 

The  diction  of  the  actors  is  doing  much 
to  generalize  speech  throughout  the  coun- 
try. It  is  my  prediction  that  within  a  few 
years  there  will  be  no  more  provincial  types 
of  speech. 

Lloyd  Benefiel 


talkies. 

6 


\Y.    DOLEN 


M  CHEVALIER,  Wallace  Beery 
nearly  tied  your  score  this  month. 
•Wallace  Beery  in  "The  Big 
House"  swept  way  in  the  lead  with  raves 
over  a  single  individual  performance. 
But  Chevalier's  still  the  national  honey- 
boy  and  the  fans  are  howling  for  more 
songs  from  him. 

The  Siren  Swede  remains  First  Lady 
of  the  Films.  Miss  Garbo's  bouquets 
were  never  bigger,  more  fragrant,  more 
numerous.  And  second?  Somebody 
new.  The  beautiful,  blonde  Ann 
Harding. 

The  pictures  which  provoked  the 
most  comments  were  "The  Big  House" 
and  "All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front." 
The  fans  want  substantial  stories. 

And  now,  prepare  for  shock.  The 
fans  have  changed  their  minds  about  the 
poor  old  theme  song.  They're  actually 
asking  for  musicals.  Ah,  but  they 
specify  that  singers  shall  do  the  singing. 


Philadelphia  Surrenders! 

Philadelphia,   Penna. 

BROOK  and  Chatterton  are  billed  as  the 
stars  of  "Anybody's  Woman."  But  the 
real  star  is  Paul  Lukas.  I  could  hear  com- 
ments from  people  in  the  theater  and,  be- 
lieve me,  they  were  all  falling  for  Paul 
Lukas — myself  included. 

Ellen  W.  White 

It's  Real  Blonde,  Anyway 

Brewer,  Maine 

ANN  HARDING'S  acting  in  "Holiday" 
is  superb.  But  why  the  quaint  coif- 
fure? The  coil  on  the  nape  of  her  neck 
looked  hard  as  a  brick  and  quite  as  fetching 
as  a  real  brick  would  look  poised  at  that 
angle. 

R.  Arline  Wray 

Skittish  Marquise 

Rockville,  Md. 

I  WAS    disappointed    in    Gloria    Swanson 
in  her  last   picture — "What  a   Widow!" 
She  is  too  dignified  for  such  silly  acting. 
Sadie  Wisner 

What? 

Budapest,  Hungary 

HOW  can  it  be  written  that  Chevalier 
has  shared  his  throne  with  Tibbett? 
Yes,  I  know  Tibbett  is  a  king  in  the  movies. 
But  what's  a  king  to  a  god? 

L.  Ecker 

Just  an  Old  Hollywood 

Custom! 

Wilmington,  N.  C. 

WHY  spoil  all  the  best  scenes  by  having 
an  orchestra  burst  forth  and  help  the 
star  sing  the  theme  song? 

Oh,  of  course,  it  is  perfectly  natural  for 
the  star  to  be  accompanied  by  a  full  sym- 
phony orchestra  while  he,  or  she,  sings  in 
the  bathtub.    What  could  be  more  natural? 

Lois  Ward 
[please  turn  to  page  ill] 


Photoplay  Magazine  fob  January,  l(J3i 


f  tflGH*s 


\ 


HE  GREATEST    LOVE    STORY   EVER  TOLD! 

Old  Vienna — §ay,  charming — capital  of  glorious   romance?   the 

inspiration    of    artists     and     tne     home     of    love     and    youth! 

I  hrough  its  eventful  years  echoes  tne  story  of  a  great  love 

that  enriches  each  generation  with  its  enduring  heauty. 

Old  times,  rich  with  remembrance. ..  mirrored  again 

in     the     new    life     of    today.      Beauty     that     never 

dies;    love    that    lives    on    forever,    each    growing 

more     beautilul    as    the    long    years    pass. 

\  iennese     \ights         is     the     original     creation     of 

Sigmutnl    Romberg    ana    Oscar  rlatnmcrstein    II. 

It    was    written    especially    for    the     \  itajihone 

and    is   filmed    entirely    in     Technicolor. 


'1'ilaplwnc"  is  the  registered  trademark  of 
The  I  itaphone  Corporation 


A  WARNER  BROS  & 
VITAPHONE  (Picture 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


•  ABRAHAM  LINCOLN— United  Artists.— D. 
\V.  Griffith  lias  painted  the  great  humanity  of  a 
great  man  with  a  master  touch.  Walter  Huston  is 
a  majestic  Lincoln.     (Oct.) 

ADIOS — First  National. — Richard  Barthelmcss  as 
an  earlv  California  Robin  Hood.  Colorful  and  charm- 
ing.    You'll  like  it.     (Dec.) 

AFRICA  SPEAKS — Columbia. — Interesting  trav- 
■logue  with  animal  thrills,  considerably  dramatized. 
3ut  it  has  a  kick.     (Dec.) 

ALONG  CAME  YOUTH— Paramount.— Just  a 
light  Charles  (Buddy)  Rogers  picture,  with  laughs 
from  Stuart  Erwin.  Nobody  sings,  anyway.  And 
that's  something.      (Dec.) 

ANIMAL  CRACKERS— Paramount.— The  Four 
Marx  Brothers,  who  scored  in  "The  Cocoanuts,"  turn 
another  of  their  musical  shows  into  a  talkie  comedy, 
and  click  again.     (Oct.) 

ANYBODY'S  WOMAN— Paramount.— Ruth 
Chatterton  as  a  hard-boiled  burlesque  queen.  The 
story  misses  greatness,  but  the  Chatterton- Brook  team 
is  well  worth  your  money.    (Oct.) 

ARE  YOU  THERE?  —  Fox.  —  Beatrice  Lillie, 
comedy  queen  of  London,  tries  hard  to  be  funny  as 
a  lady  detective,  but  she  never  quite  clicks.  Bee 
isn't  there,  nor  is  her  picture.     (Nov.) 

ARIZONA  KID,  THE— Fox.— Warner  Baxter 
follows  "In  Old  Arizona''  with  another  fine  perform- 
ance and  an  excellent  picture.    (July) 

ATLANTIC— British  International.— English  dia- 
logue may  bore  you,  but  the  melodrama  must  have 
been  based  on  the  Titanic  catastrophe  and  it  affords 
some  creditable  sea  thrills.     (Dec.) 

BACK  PAY— First  National.— Too  bad  it  doesn't 
leave  us  with  pleasanter  memories  to  mark  Corinne 
Griffith's  retirement  from  the  screen.     (Aug.) 

BAD  MAN,  THE— First  National.— Walter  Hus- 
ton swaggers  through  this,  making  it  good  entertain- 
ment.    (A  ug.) 

BIG  BOY — Warners. — Al  Jolson,  mostly  in 
blackface,  sings  generously  and  cracks  funny  gags. 
Race-track  intrigue  made  into  comedy.     (Sept.) 

BIG  FIGHT,  THE— Sono  Art— James  Cruze.— 
Amusing  enough.  Lola  Lane  and  Guinn  Williams, 
but  Stcpin  Fetchit  almost  shuffles  off  with  the  show. 
(July) 

•  BIG  HOUSE,  THE— M-G-M.— Inspired  by 
real  life  stories  of  prison  riots  and  intelligently 
1  roduced.  Chester  Morris  and  Robert  Montgomery 
outstanding.     (Aug.) 

•  BIG  POND,  THE— Paramount.— Chevalier 
clicks  again!  See  him  as  a  poor  but  romantic 
Frenchman  trying  to  make  good  in  an  American 
chewing  gum  factory.  Claudette  Colbert,  and  some 
typical  Chevalier  songs.     (July) 

•  BIG  TRAIL,  THE— Fox.— Now,  here's  an 
epic!  Buffalo  hunt,  Indians,  thrills,  pictorial 
beauty.  Raoul  Walsh's  supreme  directorial  achieve- 
ment. Greater  than  "The  Covered  Wagon."  John 
Wayne,  newcomer,  moves  right  into  the  star  class. 
(Nov.) 

•  BILLY  THE  KID— M-G-M— Johnny  Mack 
Brown  gives  the  show  of  his  life  as  the  boy  out- 
law. Not  history.  But  who  wants  history/  The 
movie's  a  pip.    (Dec.) 

BORDER  LEGION,  THE— Paramount.— Jack 
Holt,  Dick  Arlen.  hay  Wray  and  Eugene  Pallette  in  a 
Zanc  Grey  thriller.     (July) 

BORDER  ROMANCE— Tiffany  Prod.— Worth- 
while only  because  the  little  Mexican  minx,  Armida, 
stars.     (Aug.) 

BORN    RECKLESS— Fox.— Maybe    the   fear   of 

irahip  took  the  thrill  out  of  this  gangster  him 

made  from  the  exciting  best  seller,  "Louis  Beretti.' 

Eddie  I. owe.  Lee  Tracy  and  Catherine  Dale  Owen. 

{July) 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 


-fc Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


BOUDOIR  DIPLOMAT,  THE— Universal.— 
Sophisticated  comedy,  cleverly  acted  by  Betty  Comp- 
son  and  Ian  Keith.  A  few  dull  moments  but  many  de- 
lightful ones,  subtly  naughty.     (Dec.) 

BRIDE  OF  THE  REGIMENT— First  National. 
— Sumptuously  mounted,  Technicolored  operetta,  but 
;  low-paced.    (Aug.) 

BRIGHT  LIGHTS— First  National.— All-Techni- 
color musical  extravaganza.  You'll  like  Dorothy 
Mackaill  and  Frank  Fay.     (Aug.) 

•  CALL  OF  THE  FLESH— M-G-M— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Singer  of  Seville") — Ro- 
mantic story  tailored  to  Ramon  Novarro's  talents. 
Ramon  sings  and  acts  with  charm  and  Dorothy 
Jordan  is  delightful.     (Sept.) 

CAPTAIN  APPLEJACK— Warners.— All  in  fun 
— and  what  fun!  A  blase  young  man  finds  adventure 
among  the  pirates.  Heavy  loving  between  John 
Halliday  and  Kay  Strozzi,  with  Mary  Brian  as  the 
nice  girl.     (Nov.) 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  romantic 
bandit  rights  some  wrongs.  You  know  the  plot, 
but  it's  still  a  lot  of  fun.  Victor  Varconi  is  the  dash- 
ing Captain  and  Fay  Wray  airs  her  cute  Spanish 
accent.      ( Nov.) 


$5,000  Prize 
Winners 

A  complete  list  of  the  70  who 
divide  Photoplay's  annual  Cut 
Picture  Puzzle  cash  award,  to- 
gether  with  photographs  of  the 
five  major  winners  and  their 
entries,  appears  on  Page  56,  this 
issue. 

Photoplay  has  distributed  in 
prizes  in  seven  years  $35,000. 
And  during  these  years  hundreds 
of  this  magazine's  readers  have 
received  extra  cash  to  brighten 
their  Christmas  holidays. 

Watch  for  the  announcement  of 
this  contest  for  1931!  It's 
worth  it! 


CAT  CREEPS,  THE  — Universal.— Your  old 
friend.  "The  Cat  and  the  Canary,"  now  a  talkie. 
Shivers  and  thrills!  A  wow  scare-movie.  Neil  Hamil- 
ton leads  a  great  cast.     (Dec.) 

•  CHECK  AND  DOUBLE  CHECK— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Amos  n'  Andy  materialize  on  the 
screen,  with  Kingfish  and  the  Fresh  Air  Taxi!  Dis 
am  entertainment!     (Dec.) 

CHEER  UP  AND  SMILE— Fox.— Good  comedy 
drama,  with  Arthur  Lake,  Dixie  Lee  and  the  vampish 
Baclanova. 

COLLEGE  LOVERS— First  National.— The  old 
football  stuff,  even  if  the  hero  doesn't  make  a  last 
minute  touchdown.  Jack  Whiting  and  Marian  Nixon 
are  the  lovers.      (Nov.) 


COMMON  CLAY— Fox.— Interesting  dramatic 
talkie  from  the  old  stage  play,  with  a  "Madame  X" 
type  of  plot.     Constance  Bennett  stars.     (Sept.) 

CONSPIRACY— Radio  Pictures.— Bessie  Love's 
talents  are  lost  in  this.  Reminds  us  of  the  senior 
class  play!    (Sept.) 

DANCING  SWEETIES  —  Warners.  —  Grant 
Withers  and  Sue  Carol  in  a  story  of  that  much  dis- 
cussed "first  year"  of  marriage.     (July) 

DANGER  LIGHTS— Radio  Pictures.— You'll  be 
all  over  the  seat  during  the  wild  ride  into  Chicago, 
with  Robert  Armstrong  at  the  throttle  and  Louis  Wol- 
heim  dying  in  a  coach  behind.     (Oct.) 

DANGEROUS  NAN  McGREW— Paramount- 
Proving  that  mere  "cuteness"  doesn't  make  a  picture. 
This  one  needs  a  story.     Helen  Kane  is  Nan.  (Sept.) 

•  DAWN  PATROL.  THE— First  National.— 
Nary  a  woman  in  this.  Barthelmess,  Doug, 
Jr.,  and  Neil  Hamilton  in  powerful  war  picture  with 
thrills  a-plenty  1    (Sept.) 

DERELICT— Paramount. — Big  Boy  Bancroft  and 
William  (stage)  Boyd  fight  a  grand  fight.    And  there 
are  lots  of  storms  at  sea.   Why  sorry  about  the 
(Dec.) 

•  DEVIL'S  HOLIDAY,  THE— Paramount.— 
Nancy  Carroll  in  emotional  drama,  giving  the 
best  performance  of  her  career !  Directed  by  Edmund 
Goulding,  who  made  "The  Trespasser."     (July) 

DEVIL  WITH  WOMEN,  A  —  Fox  — (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "On  the  Make ")—  A  McLaglen  formula 
picture,  with  Vic  the  usual  swaggering,  lovable 
bully.     Mona  Maris  is  lovely.     (Sept.) 

DIVORCE  AMONG  FRIENDS.— Warners. 
Heigh  ho,  the  husband  and  wife  quarrel  and  make  up! 
Lew  Cody  is  the  only  bright  spot.    (Dec.) 

DIXIANA — Radio  Pictures. — Everett  Marshall 
:rom  the  Metropolitan  Opera  adds  voice  and  person- 
ality to  a  charming  operetta.  Bebe  Daniels  at  her 
best.     (A  ug.) 

DOORWAY  TO   HELL,   THE— Warners.— Lew 

Ayres  as  a  gangster  with  a  Napoleonic  complex. 
Lew  is  great.     The  picture's  pretty  good.     (Nov.) 

DOUGH  BOYS— M-G-M— An  evening  of  laughs. 
Sad-faced  Buster  Keaton  wanders  through  some  of 
the  funniest  gags  ever.     (Oct.) 

DU  BARRY— WOMAN  OF  PASSION— United 

Artists. — Passion?  Well,  hardly.  Norma  Talmadge 
gives  a  hint  of  her  old  fire,  but  loses  in  the  fight 
against  long,  artificial  speeches.  Conrad  Nagel  and 
William  Farnum  are  excellent.     (Nov.) 

DUMBBELLS  IN  ERMINE— Warners.— Prize- 
fights and  love.  Robert  Armstrong,  Jimmy  Gleason, 
and  Beryl  Mercer.    Lots  of  fun.    04  ug.) 

EAST  IS  WEST— Universal.— Lupe  Velez  plays 
Ming  Toy.  Edward  G.  Robinson  isChinalcncn  Charlie. 
They  should  have  made  the  old  play  convincing,  but 
something  went  wrong.     (Dec.) 

EXTRAVAGANCE — Tiffany  Productions. — Fash- 
ions and  passions  blended  in  a  display  that  will  make 
the  audience  gasp.     Don't  take  Junior.     (Dec.) 

EYES  OF  THE  WORLD— United  Artists.— This 
Harold  Bell  Wright  standby,  in  its  talkie  dress,  is 
cumbersome  movie  stuff.     (Oct.) 

FALL  GUY,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Jack  Mul- 
hall  and  Mae  Clarke  in  a  simple  little  story  about  an 
out-of-work  husband.     (July) 

•  FATHER'S  SON— First  National.— A  simple 
story,  fine  and  human.  Lewis  Stone.  Irene 
Rich.  Leon  Janney.  Here  are  actors — and  a  notable 
film.     (Dec.) 

•     FEET    FIRST— Paramount. — Harold    Lloyd 
rings  the  bell  again — with  both  feet.      You'll 
shriek  and  squeal.     (Dec.) 

FLIRTING  WIDOW.  THE— First  National. — 
Dorothy  Mackaill  scores  a  bull's-eye  in  this  clever 
comedy,  in  a  part  that  suits  her  to  a  couple  of  T's. 

[  PLEASE  TURN"  TO  PAGE  10  ] 


riiOTOPLAY  Magazine  for  January,  1931 


,r\ 


1-^ 


|l 


fll'l 


ti 


!,'•- 


'■*5ft>i 


r 


iff 


.    V 


5C . 


El 


** 


7 


-*r_l  J 


(BiiaiBiqiBniaini 


far 


ji"ii| ■ 


New  laws  for  love... the  sky  swarming  with 
'planes...  a  giant  rocket  shot  to  Mars... 
El  Brendel  a  riotous  stowaway...  LooLoo, 
Queen  of  Mars,  throwing  a  sky  party  for 
the  rocketeers.  JUST  IMAGINE  Broadway  in 

1980 

New  York  gone  futuristic...  a  towering 
tangle  of  pinnacles,  viaducts,  bridges...  and 
what  fashions  in  dress...  JUST  IMAGINE 
an  amazing  spectacular  musical  production 
with  story  and  song  by  those  masters  of 
marvelous  entertainment, 

DeSYLVA,  BROWN 
AND  HENDERSON 

and  an  extraordinary  cast,  including 

EL  BRENDEL 

MAUREEN  O'SULLIVAN  JOHN  GARRICK 

MARJORIE  WHITE  FRAN  K  ALBERTSON 

Dances  staged  by  Seymour  Felix 

Directed  by  DAVID  BUTLER 


■aM»*li|ll  ■Miwj'Ji* 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  rlease  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZIXE. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


•FLORODORA  GIRL.  THE  —  M-G-M.  — 
Marion  Davics  as  one  of  the  original  Florodora 
Girls.  Gags,  costumes  and  atmosphere  of  the  Gay 
'yO's  make  this  a  riot  of  fun.     {July) 

FOLLOW   THE    LEADER— Paramount.— Ed 
Wynn's  a  howl  in  this  dandy  transcription  of  In 
hit.    "Manhattan    Mary."      A    musical   comedy,    but 
it's  a  honey.     (Dec.) 

FOLLOW  THRU— Paramount.— All-Technicolor 
golf  musical  comedy,  and  all  good,  fast  entertain- 
ment.    Nancy  Carroll  and  Charles  Rogers.    (Sept.) 

FOR  THE  DEFENSE— Paramount.— Bill  Powell 
as  a  criminal  lawyer  who  lets  love  interfere  with  busi- 
ness and  lands  in  prison.  Kay  Krancis  the  girl  who 
waits  for  him.     Good.     (.Sept.) 

FOUND — Ralph  P.  King  Productions. — Australia 
Sponsored  this  travel  film.  It's  excellent,  except  for  a 
goofy  ending.     (Dec.) 

FOX  MOVIETONE  FOLLIES  OF  1930— Fox  — 

By  now  the  singie-talkie  revues  have  lost  their 
novelty.  Comedy,  fair  songs,  and  a  bit  of  a  love 
story.     (July) 

FURIES.  THE— First  National.— Murder  in  the 
smart  set.  Weighty  and  wordy,  yet  fairly  interesting. 
H.  B.  Warner,  Lois  Wilson  and  Natalie  Moorehead. 
(July) 

GIRL  OF  THE  GOLDEN  WEST— First  Na- 
tional.— Ann  Harding  gives  zest  to  the  old  Belasco 
drama.    Fine  support  and  a  surprise  finale.    (A  ug.) 

GOING  WILD  —  First  National.  —  Remember 
Doug  MacLean  in  "Going  Up"?  This  is  a  revival, 
with  Joe  E.  Brown  as  the  funny  fellow  who  is  mis- 
taken for  an  aviator.  Some  laughs  and  some  dull 
spots.     (Nov.) 

GOLDEN  DAWN— Warners.— Vivienne  Segal  in 
all-Technicolor  operetta.     Dull.     (Oct.) 

GOOD  INTENTIONS— Fox— Crave  excite- 
ment? See  Eddie  Lowe  as  a  master-crook  in  love  with 
a  high-society  lass.     (.4  ug.) 

GOOD  NEWS— M-G-M.— College  run  rampant, 
and  set  to  music.  Bessie  Love,  Stanley  Smith  and 
Lola  Lane.     (Aug.) 

GORILLA,  THE— First  National.— A  goodish 
enough  thriller — but  it's  been  dolefully  slowed  down 
for  the  screen.  Frisco,  Broadway  funnyman,  is  less 
funny  than  usual.     (Nov.) 

•      GRUMPY — Paramount. — Grand  entertain- 
ment.   Cyril  Maude's  screen  debut,  in  his  fa- 
mous stage  portrayal  of  a  lovable  old  crab.    (Aug.) 

•  HALF  SHOT  AT  SUNRISE— Radio  Pictures. 
— Who  said  "depression"?  Go  A  W  O  L  with 
Wheeler  and  Woolsey  in  Paris.  The  most  rollicking 
nonsense  ever  devised.     (Nov.) 

HEADS  UP— Paramount.— Charles  (Ex-Buddy) 
Rogers  in  a  pleasant  little  musical  comedy  about  a 
dashing  coast  guardsman.  Not  historic — except  iliat 
Buddy  smokes  his  first  cigarette!     (Dec.) 


HE  KNEW  WOMEN— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell 
Sherman  and  Alice  Joyce  in  a  photographed  play. 
"Ill-  Second  Man."  Good  for  some  sophisticated 
chuckles.     (July) 

HELL'S  ANGELS— Caddo  Prod.— Three  years 
and  $4,000,000  were  invested  in  this.  Worth  seeing — 
hut  $4,000,000  worth?     (Aug.) 

HELL'S  ISLAND— Columbia.— The  Jack  Holt- 
Ralph  Graves  team  turns  out  a  slam-bang  picture  of 
love,  hate  and  friendship  in  the  Foreign  Legion. 
(Oct.) 

•  HER  MAN— Pathe.— "He  was  her  man.  but 
he  done  her  wrong" — Frankie  and  her  erring 
Johnnie  further  immortalized  on  celluloid  in  the  in- 
teresting persons  of  Helen  Twelvetrees  and  Phillips 
Holmes.      (Nov.) 

HER  WEDDING  NIGHT— Paramount.— Clara, 
the  Bow,  en  negligee  in  Paris.  Bedrooms  and  boy 
friends.     Light,  but  quite  cute.     (Dec.) 

HIGH  SOCIETY  BLUES— Fox.— A  musical 
romance,  carried  to  fair  success  by  the  popular 
Gaynor-Farrell  team.     (July) 

•     HOLIDAY— Pathe. — Ann  Harding  as  a  poor 
little  rich  girl,  Mary  Astor  and  a  perfect  cast 
make  a  splendid  picture.     (Aug.) 

HOT  CURVES— Tiffany  Prod.— Not  what  the 
title  might  indicate,  unless  you  know  your  baseball 
vernacular.     (A  ug.) 

HOT  HEIRESS.  THE— First  National.— A  mil- 
lionaire's daughter  on  the  make  for  a  steel  riveter, 
poor  but  virile.  Loads  of  fun.  Ben  Lyon's  the  gent, 
and  what  a  cutie  is  Ona  Munson!    (Dec.) 

INSIDE  THE  LINES— Radio  Pictures.— Old  style 
war  stuff,  with  spies,  secret  service,  trick  Hindus,  and 
a  love  in  wartime  theme.  Betty  Compson  and  Ralph 
Forbes.     (Sept.) 

JAZZ  CINDERELLA,  THE— Chesterfield.— Poor 
girl  captures  rich  boy.  Myrna  Loy  and  Jason  Ro- 
bards  do  as  well  as  they  can,  which  isn't  much.   (Dec.) 

*JUST  IMAGINE— Fox.— Life  in  1980!  Mad 
buffooner> .  funny,  ironic  and  different.  El 
Brendel  heads  the  dandy  cast.  Top  entertainment. 
(Dec.) 

KATHLEEN  MA VOURNEEN— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Sally  O'Neil  is  the  colleen.  Save  your  monev. 
(Oct.) 

•     KISMET — First    National. — Distinguished 
Otis  Skinner  makes  his  talkie  bow.     Beautiful 
fantasy,  but  fantasy.     (Dec.) 

LADIES  IN  LOVE— Hollywood  Pictures,  Inc.— 
Let's  not  talk  about  this  one.     (Aug.) 

•  LADIES  OF  LEISURE— Columbia.— Bar- 
bara Stanwyck  grand  as  a  little  party  girl  who 
falls  for  a  serious  young  artist.  Fine  supporting  cast. 
You  mustn't  miss  it.     (July) 

•     LADY    OF    SCANDAL,     THE— M-G-M.— 
Ruth  Chatterton    in  delicious    light    comedy, 
from  the  Lonsdale  play,   "The  High   Road."   (July) 


LADY  SURRENDERS,   A— Universal.— Marital 
subtly  and  delightfully  described  by  Conrad 
Nagel,    Genevieve   Tobin,    Rose    Hobart   and    Basil 
Rathbone.    A  charming  picture.     (Dec.) 

•  LADY'S  MORALS,  A— M-G-M.— Introduc- 
ing Grace  Moore,  young  and  beautiful  Metro- 
politan Opera  prima  donna.  A  lovely  voice  and  a 
charming  story,  based  on  the  life  of  Jenny  Lind. 
Reginald  Denny  is  fine  opposite  the  star.     (Dec.) 

LADY  WHO  DARED,  THE— First  National  — 
Millie  Dove  in  an  aged  and  faltering  story  about  a  dip- 
lomat's wife  who  gets  in  a  mess  with  blackmailers. 
(Oct.) 

LAST  OF  THE  DUANES—  Fox.— Even  if  you're 
not  a  "Western"  fan  you'll  like  this.  George  O'Brien 
stars.     (Sept.) 

•  LAUGHTER— Paramount.— Nancy  Carroll 
and  Fredric  March  in  love — with  a  millionaire 
husband  in  the  background.  A  bewitching  picture. 
See  it.     (Dec.) 

LAWFUL  LARCENY— Radio  Pictures.— Bebe 
Daniels  and  Lowell  Sherman  in  sophisticated  melo- 
drama that  you'll  like.     (Sept.) 

LEATHERNECKING— Radio  Pictures.— An- 
other musical  romance,  but  you'll  roll  with  laughter 
while  a  rare  cast  of  funsters  do  their  stuff.    (Oct.) 

L'ENIGMATIQUE    MONSIEUR    PARKES    — 

Paramount.  —  The  French  version  of  "Slightly 
Scarlet,"  with  M.  Adolphe  Menjou  and  Mile.  Claud- 
ette  Colbert  in  the  leads.  Made  for  the  French,  but 
interesting  to  Americans,  too.    (Nov.) 

LET'S  GO  NATIVE— Paramount.— Wonderful 
nonsense  in  this  burlesque  of  the  old  shipwreck-on-a- 
desert-island  theme.  Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Jack 
Oakie.    (July) 

LET  US  BE  GAY— M-G-M.— Norma  Shearer  in 
another  swell  sophisticated  drama,  with  Marie  Dress- 
ier, Gilbert  Emery  and  Rod  La  Rocque.    (A  ug.) 

•  LILIOM — Fox. — A  fine  picture  marks  the 
screen  d£but  of  a  striking  young  emotional 
actress.  Rose  Hobart.  Charles  Farrell  is  an  engaging 
Liliom.  but  he  never  seems  quite  at  home  without 
his  Janet.     (Nov.) 

LITTLE  ACCIDENT,  THE— Universal.— The 
stage  play  was  funny  and  a  hit,  and  so  is  the  talkie. 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  has  a  grand  part.  Anita 
Page  plays  feminine  lead.    (Sept.) 

LITTLE  CAESAR— First  National— Don't  decide 
you're  fed  up  on  underworld  movies  before  you've 
seen  this  one.  It's  worth  it,  thanks  to  brilliant  work 
by  Edward  G.  Robinson  and  Doug,  Jr.     (Dec.) 

LONE  RIDER,  THE— Columbia. — Slow-moving. 
Western.  Best  .work  done  by  Buck  Jones'  horse. 
Silver.   (Sept.) 

LONESOME  TRAIL,  THE— Syndicate  Pictures, 
— Plenty  of  action  in  this  Western.  Charles  Delaney 
is  the  hero  and  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  the  rancher's 
daughter.     Kids  will  love  it.     (Nov.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  15  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list. 


Page 

Bat  Whispers,  The — United  Artists 50 

Big  Money — Pathe 52 

Brothers — Columbia 112 

Charley's  Aunt — Columbia 112 

Cohens  and   Kellys  in   Africa,   The — 

Universal 53 

Concentratin'  Kid, The — Universal.  113 
Costello  Case — Sono  Art- James  Cruze  112 
Dich  Hab'  Ich  Geliebt— AAFA-Tobis.  .112 
Escape — Associated  Radio  Pictures   .112 

Ex-Flame — Liberty  Productions 113 

Fair  Warning — Fox 112 

Flame  of  Love,  The — British  Interna- 
tional  113 

Headin'  North— Tiffany  Productions..  .  112 
Illicit— Warners 50 


Page 
Land   of    Missing    Men,    The — Tiffany 

Productions 113 

Last  of  the  Lone  Wolf — Columbia.  112 

Life  of  the  Party,  The — Warners 52 

Lightnin' — Fox 50 

Lion  and  the  Lamb,  The — Columbia .      112 
Loose  Ends — British  International  . . .    113 

Murder — British  International 112 

New  Moon— M-G-M 51 

Oh,  For  a  Man! — Fox 53 

Part  Time  Wife— Fox 112 

Passion  Flower— M-G-M 52 

Pinchot's   South  Seas  Cruise — Travel- 
Epics 112 

Renegades — Fox 52 


Page 

Scotland  Yard — Fox 53 

Sea  Legs — Paramount 53 

See  America  Thirst — Universal 112 

Sin  Ship,  The — Radio  Pictures 53 

Sin  Takes  a  Holiday— Pathe 51 

Suspense — British  International  112 

Third  Alarm,  The— Tiffany  Productions  112 

Tol'able  David— Columbia 52 

Under  Suspicion — Fox 112 

War  Xurse— M-G-M 53 

Widow     From     Chicago,     The — First 

Xational 52 

Within  the  Law— M-G-M 51 

Zwei  Herzen  Im  3-4  Takt — Associated 

Cinemas 112 


Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 122 


10 


Photoplay  MAGAZINE  1  or  JANUARY,   1931 


I  I 


*<*'*?' 


v^vTVA         tffcLfc^ 


.thV 


\KTIE,    architect, 

builder,   pride  of  the 

family,  yet  h<:  left  her 

in  the  end. 


V> 


Wi 


JENNY,  timid, 
home-loving, 
married  to  a 
man  old  enough 
to  be  her  father. 


BEATTY,  beau- 

tifttl.clfVIT.H  'till 

her  own  distorted 

ideas  about  lore 

and  marriage. 


e&jL 


DANNY,  blacksheep 
of  the  family,  gang- 
ster, killer  of  his 
own  sister. 


Helplessly  MOTHERS   CRY- 

"Why  are  my  children  so  different? — All  differ- 
ent from  each  other— all  different  from  ME!" 

A  mother  dreams  about  her  children.  She  plans  , .  .  hut 
destiny  disposes.  Four  children,  four  lives — one  a  builder 
— one  a  destroyer — one  a  wife — one  an  unwed  mother. 
Hers  the  pain — and  the  joy.  \  ours  the  opportunity  to  see 
the  most  daring,  true-to-life  story  of  the  talking  screen. 
It  might  be  the  life  story  of  your  neighbor,  your  dearest 
friend,  your  mother  ...  or  perhaps — even  your  own! 


4 


'f'itaphone"  is  the  registered  trademark  of  The  \'i:aphonc  Corporation. 

When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PJIOTOPHaY  MAGAZINE. 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL 
a  VITAPHONE  (Picture 


Their  Pet  Vanities 


IF  you  tell  a  girl  with  beautiful 
eyes  that  she  has  beautiful  eyes 
you'll  get  a  polite,  bored  smile. 
But  tell  a  girl  with  a  snub  nose 
that  you  think,  snub  noses  are  far 
more  attractive  than  chiseled,  classic 
profiles  and  you  can  have  her  tele- 
phone number  for  your  little  black 
book.     (That  is,  if  you  want  it!) 

Look  at  Bebe  Daniels.  Is  she 
proud  of  having  made  one  of  the  most 
remarkable  come-backs  in  screen 
history?  Sure  she  is.  Go  and  tell 
her  how  much  you  liked  her  in  "Rio 
Rita."  She'll  smile  sweetly,  clasp 
your  hand  warmly  and  thank  you 
graciously. 

But  tell  her  that  you  saw  her  at  the 
vegetable  market  yesterday  and  that 
you  have  never  before  seen  anybody 
order  groceries  with  more  finesse  and 
knowledge  of  the  subject  and  she'll 
beg  you  to  take  the  wedding  silver  as 
a  little  token  of  her  friendship. 

Bebe  is  doing  all  her  own  market- 
ing, and  the  words,  ''We  have  some 
very  nice  carrots  today,  Mrs.  Lyon, 
and  how  about  a  few  pounds  of 
spinach?''  are  much  more  thrilling 
to  her  than  the  directorial  sentence, 
"That  was  a  great  scene,  Bebe." 

Consider  Ruth  Chatterton  —  the 
splendid  technician,  the  stage  actress 
who  has  become  one  of  the  most 
adored  screen  stars.  Is  she  proud  of 
being  all  these  things?  Certainly! 
But  the  achievement  in  which  she 
delights  most  is  the  fact  that  she 
never  sunburns!  And  Joan  Craw- 
ford's private,  pet  vanity  is  the  fact 
that  she  does  sunburn,  evenlv  and 
well. 

THERE  is  hidden  away  in  almost 
everybody's  old  subconscious  a 
latent  desire  to  write.  You  know 
how  you  feel  when  your  second 
cousin  says,  "I  always  like  to  get  a 
letter  from  Emily.  She  writes  just 
like  she  talks.  I  can  just  see  things 
when  she  writes  about  them." 

And  that's  how  Janet  Gaynor  feels 
when  her  husband,  Lydell  Peck,  tells 
her  that  the  separation  from  her, 
when  she  was  in  Honolulu,  was  made 
bearable  by  the  graphic  manner  in 
which  she  described  everything  she 
saw  by  letter.  Her  eyes  light  up  with 
pride  when  she  talks  about  it.  She 
knows  she  was  good  in  "  7th  Heaven" 
— or  she  should  by  this  time — but 
letter-writing  is  a  real  achievement. 

And  Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr. — well, 
his  screen  career  is  his  job.  But 
Doug  taps  away  at  his  typewriter 
whenever  he  has  any  minutes  to 
spare,  and  he'd  rather  Joan  would  see 
a  poem  of  his  and  like  it  than  go  to 
a  preview  of  his  latest  picture. 

Sartorial  achievement  is  a  little 
vanity  that  doesn't  leave  the  star 
untouched.  Dick  Barthelmess  is 
not,  in  reality,  the  clothes  type.  He 
is  short  and  stocky,  and  seldom  does 
he  wear  smart  clothes  for  his  char- 

12 


Her  Pet  Vanity? — 
She  doesn't  sunburn ! 


Last  Minute  News 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Nils  Asther  (Vivian 
Duncan  i  are  said  to  be  expecting  a 
happy  family  event.  They  sail  soon  for 
Berlin.  This  splits  up  the  Duncan 
sister  team,  for  a  decade  one  of  the 
most  famous  in  American  show 
business. 

Thomas  Meighan  is  coming  back  to 
pictures!  The  famous  star  will  play 
a  role  in  the  Fox  production  of  "Young 
Sinners."    It's  a  character  part. 

Edwina  Booth,  answering  Mrs. 
Duncan  Renaldo's  alienation  of  affec- 
tions suit  for  $500,000,  denies  that  she 
stole  the  actor's  love  while  the  two 
were  on  location  in  Africa  with  the 
"Trader  Horn"  company. 

Jeanette  MacDonald,  her  Paramount 
contract  up,  has  signed  with  Fox  for  a 
year.  The  beautiful  blonde's  first 
picture  will  be  "All  Women  Are  Bad," 
co-featured  with  Edmund  Lowe. 

Bruce  Rogers,  younger  brother  of 
Charles,  is  off  the  Paramount  payroll, 
after  three  months  on  the  lot  without  a 
part.  William  Austin,  English  char- 
acter comic,  is  also  through  at  Para- 
mount. 

Doris  Kenyon,  widow  of  Milton  Sills, 
starts  a  concert  tour  in  January.  She 
is  a  gifted  singer  of  character  numbers. 

Dolores  Costello,  wife  of  John  Barry- 
more,  has  renounced  the  screen  for 
home  and  baby. 

When  Clara  Bow  was  working  at 
Paramount's  Eastern  studio,  in  Astoria, 
some  Hollywood  wag  tacked  this  sign 
on  her  dressing  room  out  there:  "All 
Quiet  on  the  Western  Front." 


acterizations  on  the  screen.  But  he 
never  misses  a  chance  to  don  a  top 
hat  and  a  tail  coat  in  real  life.  Even 
when  the  occasion  does  not  demand 
full  dress,  Dick  will  make  an  excuse 
to  put  on  the  high  hat. 

And  would  you  believe  that  big  he- 
man,  Vic  McLaglen,  is  proud  of  his 
taste  in  socks  and  ties?  He  is  un- 
happy if  they  don't  match.  He 
refuses  to  sit  for  even  a  head  photo- 
graph unless  every  little  dot  on  his 
tie  matches  every  little  dot  on  his 
socks. 

Edmund  Lowe  is  proud  of  the  fact 
that  he  is  called  "the  best  dressed 
man  in  Hollywood."  He  has  an 
enormous  wardrobe.  His  clothes  are 
London  made  and  he  reads  all  the 
magazines  on  smart  masculine  attire. 

NOT  the  ability  to  put  on  the 
most  skilful  make-up  in  Holly- 
wood or  to  play  a  thousand  faces  at 
the  drop  of  a  hat  was  Lon  Chaney's 
pride.  If  you  gave  him  even  half  a 
chance  he  would  take  you  aside  and 
show  you  his  card  to  the  stage-hands' 
union.  He  would  add  that  he  once 
drove  a  locomotive  and  owned  an 
honorary  card  in  the  brotherhood  of 
railroad  trainmen.  Of  these  he  was 
most  proud. 

Ann  Harding  delights  in  the  fact 
that  she  does  not  look  like  an  actress 
and  that  she  is  seldom  recognized 
when  she  appears  on  the  street. 

June  Collyer  is  vain  about  the  way 
she  drives  an  automobile.  She 
admits  she's  a  swell  driver  and  will 
never  allow  anyone  else  to  handle  her 
machine. 

That  he  and  Jobyna  can  cheat  the 
carpenter  and  repair  man  out  of 
many  an  honest  penny  is  Dick 
Arlen's  vanity.  He  and  Joby,  you 
know,  build  fish  ponds  and  sunken 
gardens,  repair  the  roof  of  their  home 
and  upholster  the  furniture. 

It  is  not  Bill  Haines'  smart  cracks 
(these  come  so  easily  to  him)  of  which 
he  is  most  proud.  His  home  and  his 
love  of  and  appreciation  for  antiques 
are  his  real  vanity. 

Harry  Bannister  takes  pride  in  the 
house  that  he  designed  himself  and 
equipped  with  the  most  remarkable 
of  electrical  appliances. 

LITTLE  Loretta  Young  is  most 
thrilled  that,  as  Mrs.  Grant 
Withers,  she  has  the  ability  to  keep 
the  household  bills  way  below  par. 

Fav  \Y ray's  greatest  pride  is  that 
she  is  considered  the  best  woman 
ping-pong  player  in  Hollywood. 

And  Charles  (Ex-Buddy)  Rogers 
is  proud  of  his  ability  to  play  any 
musical  instrument  one  month  after 
he  has  bought  it. 

You'd  expect  Jetta  Goudal  to  have 
some  exotic  and  bizarre  vanity.  She 
says  that  the  proudest  day  of  her  life 
was  when  De  Mille  looked  at  her  and 
said,  "You  think  like  a  man.-' 


New  Decade 

\\  I  DANCE  again  to  melodic-  <>l 
Old  \  ienna  .  .  .  wear  the  graceful 
fashions  of  another  day  .  .  .  learn, 
once  more,  the  charm  of  elegance. 
And  romance,  returning,  gives  n> 
lovelier  jewels,  rarer  perl  nine-, 
softer  gowns  .  .  .  but  leaves  u-  tlii- 
same  luxurious  cigarette.  For  there 
are   a   hundred   perfumes   and   as 

many  gems But  in  all  the  world. 

there's  no  cigarette  so  fragrant,  bo 
delicate,  so  delightful  as  Camel. 


1"  IQ,    R.   J.    R.-vnold-   Tobarco   Co..  Whwfll  S«lf,    N.  C. 


The  World  War  as  Seen  Through  the 
Eyes  of  our  Girls  Who  Lived,  Loved 
and  Suffered  on  the  Western  Front! 


For  the  first  time!  The  frank,  daring,  adventurous 
story  of  our  girls  at  the  front!  The  wonder  and 
beauty  of  love  that  blossoms  even  in  the  carnage 
of  war!  Here  is  Drama,  stark,  gripping,  spectacu- 
lar. Metro -Goldwyn- Mayer,  producers  of  "The 
Big  Parade,"  have  again  pioneered  into  a  hitherto 
untouched  phase  of  human  relationship  in  the 
World  War.  Based  on  the  famous  anonymous 
novel  of  that  name. 


with 

ROBERT  MONTGOMERY 

ROBERT   AMES  JUNE   WALKER 

Anita  Page    Marie  Prevost    Zasu  Pitts 

Directed  by  Edgar  Selwyn 

Continuity  by   Becky  Gardiner 
Dialogue  by  Becky  Gardiner  and  Joe  Farnham 


METRO-GO 


_^W 


W 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

|  COM  IM  ED   I  f:m\i   rv. i     ID  | 


LOTTERY  BRIDE.  THE      United   VrtistS.— The 

tlinii  ol  tin-  one  i  i.  i  lonald,  who 

foi  hlstrionii  i  in  .i  inn  way.    Ami  the  muii<  h  grand. 

LOVE  AMONG  THE  MILLIONAIRES 

mount. — Clan  Umi'  gets  nun  b  too  I  UtC  In  tins  luke- 

mrn  mu  d<  (Sept.) 

LOVE  IN  THE  RING  -Term  Productions.-  Mai 
Schmellng's  made-ln-Germany  movie,  before  he  won 

the  title.    As  an  actor,  he  a  i  good  tighter.    (( I 

LOVE  IN  THE  ROUGH— M-G-M.— Golf,  ro- 

manri'.  slap-stick  and  music     You'll  like  it  if  you 
don't  take  it  too  seriously.     ((hi.) 

LOVE  RACKET.  THE— Fir*  National.  The  de- 
pressing sped  icle  of  pretty  Dorothy  Mackaill  burled 
aUve  under  .1  heavy  dramatic  rile.    (Oct.) 

LOVE  TRADER.  THE— Tiffany  Productions.— 
Leatrice  Joy,  blonde  and  beautiful,  in  a  seductive 
Hawaiian  locale.    See  it  for  Leatrice.    (Dec.) 

•    MADAM  SATAN— M-G-M.— Another  lavish 
DeMiiie  spectacle.  A  dull  wife  acquires  a  French 

accent  and  risque  clothes  to  win   hack   her  hush. mil. 
You'll  enjoy  Kay  Johnson  and  Reginald  Denny.  (Ucl.) 

MAN  FROM  WYOMING,  THE— Paramount.— 
Gary  Cooper  and  June  Collyer.  both  splendid  in  a  war 
picture  with  a  Western  title.     (.1  ug.) 

•  MANSLAUGHTER— Paramount.— The  si- 
lent version  was  great  in  its  day.  but  the  talkie 
is  a  boost  for  vocalized  films.  Fine  emotional  drama 
played  by  Fredric  March  and  Claudette  Colbert. 
(Sept.) 

MAN  TO  MAN— Warners.— (Reviewed  under  the 

title  "Barber  John's  Boy.")     A  father  returns  to  face 

in  alter  eighteen  years  in  prison.    Grant  Mitchell 

and  Phillips  Holmes  are  good,  but  the  picture  isn  t 

always  convincing.     (Dec.) 

MAN  TROUBLE— Fox.— Underworld  stuff,  but 

not   loo  depressing.      Milton    Sills  sensational   as  a 

gangster  and  Dorothy  Mackaill  plays  appealingly. 
(Sept.) 

MATRIMONIAL  BED,  THE  —  Warners.  —  A 
good  cast,  wasted  on  a  poor  picture.    (July) 

MAYBE  IT'S  LOVE— Warners.— Maybe  it's  love, 
but  it  isn't  college.  Gridiron  scenes  arc  good.  Joan 
Bennett  and  James  Hall  provide  the  love.     (Oct.) 

MEDICINE  MAN,  THE— Tiffany  Productions- 
Pretty  good  hokum,  but  you  could  afford  to  miss  it. 
(Sept.) 

MEN  OF  THE  NORTH— M-G-M.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Monsieur  Lc  Fox.")  Just  another 
story  of  the  Northwest.     (Oct.) 

MIDNIGHT  MYSTERY— Radio  Pictures- A 
practical  joker  starts  something  he  cant  finish.  Betty 
Compson  and  Lowell  Sherman.     (Aug.) 

MIN  AND  BILL— M-G-M.— A  tragic  story  stu- 
pidly pigged  up  with  slapstick.  However.  Marie 
Dressier  and  Marjorie  Ratnbeau  are  grand  actresses. 
(Dec.) 

MISBEHAVING  LADIES— First  National.— The 
cms  have  whiskers,  but  you'll  laugh  at  them,  and 
Louise  Fazenda  is  the  reason.     (Nov.) 

•  MOBY  DICK  —  Warners.  —Captain  Ahab's 
vengeful  search  for  the  white  whale.  Moby  Dick, 
is  full  of  thrills.  John  Barry  more  plays  the  same  r6Ie 
as  in  the  silent  "Sea  Beast."    Don't  miss  this.     (Oct.) 

•     MONTE  CARLO—  Paramount.  —  Witty,  pi- 
quant operetta  in  the  best   Lubitsch  manner. 
Jeanette  MacDonald  sings  gloriously.    (Ocl.) 

•  MOROCCO — -Paramount. — The  new  German 
enchantress.  Marlene  Dietrich,  will  stir  up  a 
storm.  And  Gary  Cooper  is  a  gorgeous  Foreign  Le- 
gionnaire.    Hot  stuff,  this.     (Dec.) 

MOTHERS  CRY;— First  NationaL— A  best  seller 
turned  into  a  good  picture,  chiefly  by  the  superb  act- 
ing of  Dorothj   Peterson  as  the  mother.     (Dec.) 

NVUGHTY  FLIRT,  THE—  First  National.— Alice 
W  lite  as  an  heiress  pursued  by  fortune-hunters. 
Speedy  action,j)eppy  dialogue,  gorgeous  clothes.  First- 
rate  entertainment.     (Oct.) 

NIGHT  WORK— Pathe.— Eddie  Quillan  stars  in 
a  nice  comedy  drama  that  goes  a  bit  melodramatic. 
(Aug.) 

NOT  DAMAGED— Fox.— Sounds  like,  melo- 
drama, but  it's  supposed  to  be  comedy.     (July) 

NUMBERED  MEN— First  National.— Fair  enter- 
tainment.   From  the  stage  play,  "Jailbreak."    (A  ug.) 

•  OFFICE  WIFE,  THE  —  Warners.  —  Dorothy 
Mackaill  is  the  girl  who  starts  out  to  vamp  her 
employer,  played  by  Lewis  Stone,  and  ends  by  falling 
in  love  with  him.  A  sophisticated,  but  human  and 
convincing  story.     (Ocl.) 


1)11  SMI. OK  BEHAVE  ..w.-M  Sher- 

man  Is  s  swell  comedy  print  e.    <  M 

dramatically  •■>  musically,    (Sept.) 

OLD    wi>    Nl  w  hi...     Powerful,    I 

munism  propaganda  film,  i  o-direi  ted  by  Eisensti  In  "t 
"Potemkin'  fame.    Silent.    (J 

*<)l.l)   ENGLISH     '.'■    -     re.     Don't   m 
t  Seoi  t.     Ii   \  mi  hk.-d  "Dia- 

i.ieii"||yi.u  II  rave  about  tins  one,    <Srpt.) 

ONCE  \<.i  N  I'I.EM  V\     Sono  'm     | 
— High  comedy,   with   s   touch  of   pathos.     Eddie 

Horton  is  elegant.    (July) 

ONE  MAD  KISS — Fox. — Don  Jose  Mojic  a.  young 
operatic  tenor,  and  Mona  Maris  afford  entertainment 

for  a  satisfactory  evening.     (I  I 

ONE  NIGHT  AT  SUSIE'S— First  National.— 
One  night  at  Susie's  is  enough  of  this  sort  of  thing. 
Billie  Dove  plays  a  chorine.     (Sept.) 

•     ON    YOUR     BACK— Fox— Irene     Rich    in 
gorgeous  clothes,  as  a  fashionable   New   Yotk 
modiste,  is  splendid  in  an  interesting  picture.     (Sept.) 


Producer  Announcements 

of  j\ew  Pictures 

and  Stars 

While  all  good  advertising  is  news, 
we  consider  producer  advertising 
of  particular  interest  to  our  read' 
ers.  With  this  directory  you  easily 
can  locate  each  announcement: 

Caddo  Company  ....  Page  18 
First  National  Pictures  . .  Page  1 1 

Fox  Film Page  9 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer..Page  14 
Paramount  Pictures  .  .  .  Page  4 
Warner  Brothers  ....  Page  7 


OTHER  TOMORROW,  THE—  First  National  — 
Gorgeous  Billie  Dove  in  the  usual  love  triangle.  Just 
so-so.    (.1  u  g.) 

•  OUR  BLUSHING  BRIDES— M-G-M— You 
must  see  Joan  Crawford  in  those  lace  step-ins! 
Swell  box-office  picture,  with  Anita  Page.  Robert 
Montgomery   and    some    more    popular   youngsters. 

(Sept.) 

OUTSIDE  THE  LAW— Universal.— Too  much  di- 
alogue and  too  little  action.     (Oct.) 

•  OUTWARD  BOUND— Warners— A  ship  sets 
sail.  Eight  characters  are  on  board.  All  are 
dead — bound  for  the  Hereafter.  A  daring  picture, 
finely  produced  and  acted  by  Doug  Fairbanks.  Jr.. 
Helen  Chandler,  Leslie  Howard.     For  adults. 

PARADISE  ISLAND— Tiffany  Productions.— 
This  struggles  along  in  a  South  Sea  Island  setting. 
(Sept.) 

PARDON  MY  GUN— Pathe.— A  Western  comedy 
with  not  a  dull  moment.  Two  champion  juvenile 
trick  riders  and  ropers  outdo  Will  Rogers.     (Sept.) 

PAY  OFF.  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  a  dress-suit  crook  in  a  smart,  sophisticated 
crook  drama.     It's  a  pip.     (Nov.) 

PLAYBOY  OF  PARIS— Paramount— Chevalier 
deserves  better  than  this  light  farce,  which  is  amus- 
ing only  in  spots.  And  only  two  songs  from  Maurice! 
(Nov.) 

QUEEN  HIGH — Paramount. — An'  ace  musical 
comedv  with  laughs,  lilting  tunes  and  pretty  girls. 
(Aug.) 

•  QUEEN  OF  SCANDAL— United  Artists.— 
A  musical,  but  a  hit.  England's  Evelyn  Lave 
is  charming  and  Texas'  John  Boles  in  grand  voice. 
(Dee.  i 


*k\i  i  i  i  8—1  Ronald!  ■■■■ 

i   English  gentleman-tl 

while  ,       A    talkie    that 

entertainingly !    (Sept.) 

run  OS  shine    Columbia.-    I 
d.'-but.    a.  with  a  punch  finish.    [OeL) 

RECAPTURED      LOVE— Warners— A 

little  put  lire.      \  ou'll  probably  like  it.     (Aug.) 

REM  MI'I  l()\ 

talkie,  made  befon  "H    I  ght,"  but  shelved 

and  now  largrl)    i  •  : 

that  proves  Join. 

R]  Mill  I      CON1  It'll        M-G-M .  —  Hilly     H 

\  gr.  at  i  hat 
they  haven't  been  overlooked,    (Die.) 

RENO- Sono  Art  World  Wide.  Ruth  Roland's 
screen  comeback.     She  I  ful  but  her  acting 

is  hopelessly  old-fashioned,  if  there  was  a  story,  it 
got  lost  iii  the  making.     (Sept.) 

RETURN  OF  DR.  FU  MAN'  III  ,  THE 
mount. — Grand     melodramatii      hokum.       v. 
(Hand  is  a  swell  Manchu.     (J"lu) 

RICHEST  MAN  IN  THE  WORLD,  THE— 
M  G-M.— Louis  Mann  as  the  dad  of  an  ungrateful 
family,     A  good  cast  and  happy  ending.     (July) 

RIGHT  OF  WAY.  THE— First  National.— Starts 
out  well  but  toward  the  end  you  may  wish  you'd 
Stayed  home.     (Aug.) 

RIVER'S  END — Warners.— A  lusty  Curwi 
story,  with  Charles  Bickford  in  a  dual  role. 

ROAD  TO  PARADISE— First  National.— Twin 
ire  at  it  again,  complicating  movie  plots,      Lo- 
retta  Young  plays  both  girls,  one  a  i  rook,  the  other  a 
wealthy  and  noble  young  lady.     (Oct.) 

•      ROMANCE— M-G-M.— Garbo  personifies  all 
the  title  implies  in  her  second  talkie.     F'evens 
sakes,  don't  miss  it!     (Aug.) 

ROUGH  WATERS— Warners.— Another  personal 
success  for  Rin-Tin-Tin.     The  children  will  love  it. 

(Oct.) 

SANTA  FE  TRAIL,  THE— Paramount— Richard 
Arlen  in  his  cowboy  suit.  Indians.  Anil  Mitzi 
Green!     If  you  like  Westerns,  all  right.     (.Vor.) 

SAP  FROM  SYRACUSE,  THE— Paramount.— 
Jack  Oakie's  bubbling  personality  puts  this  acro^-. 
Jack  plays  a  good-natured  boob  who  masquerades  as 
a  famous  engineer.     No  panic,  but  good.     (Oct.) 

SCARLET  PAGES— First  National.— Elsie  Fer- 
guson's talkie  debut,  from  her  stage  play.  Elsie  is 
interesting  as  a  woman  attorney.      ■Sepl.i 

SEA  BAT,  THE— M-G-M.— Just  another  talkie, 
ho-hum!  By  the  way,  its  Nils  Aether's  first  audible 
film.    (Aug.) 

SEA  GOD.  THE— Paramount. — Wild  adventure. 
pearl  diving,  cannibals — a  real  movie.  Richard 
Arlen  and  Fay  Wray  provide  the  love  inter,  -t. 
(Not.) 

•     SEA   WOLF.   THE— Fox— Again   Jack   Lon- 
don's famous    Wolf  Larscn   takes 
with   sound.      Milton   Sills  played    Wolf  beautifully. 
His  last  picture,  and  a  noble  thrill 

SECOND  FLOOR  MYSTERY,  THE— Warners. 
— Novel  mystery-comedy,  with  Loretta  Young  and 
Grant  Withers.     (July) 

SHADOW  OF  THE  LAW— Paramount.— The 
usual  delightful  William  Powell  performance,  but  the 
story  could  be  better.     (July) 

SHADOW  RANCH— Columbia.— Buck  Jones' 
new  Western  is  a  cracker  jack.    {JD 

SHE   GOT  WHAT  SHE  WANTED— Cruz  -Tif- 
fany.— An  hourful  of  guffaws  over  old  man  Bori 
his  philandering  wife.    Betty  Compson's  the  wife  and 
darn  good's  the  pictur. 

SHE'S  MY  WEAKNESS— Radio  Pictures.— Ar- 
thur Lake  and  Sue  Carol  in  a  story'  of  love's  young 
dream.     Rather  nice.     (.4ug.) 

SHOOTING  STRAIGHT— Radio  Pictures  —  \ 
deft  mingling  of  under-world  drama  and  comedy  gives 
Richard  Dix  his  best  part  in  a  long  time.     (Si 

SILENT    ENEMY.    THE— Paramount.— Beauti- 
fully   photographed   story   of   the   Ojibway    Indians' 
■  for  food  in   the  far  North,   played  by   real 
Indians.     Amazing  animal  scenes.     Sound.     (July) 

SILVER  HORDE.   THE— Ra  i  —Rex 

Beach's  salmon-fishing  thriller  makes  a  tingling  phon- 
oplav  and  Evelyn  Brent  makes  a  brand  new  hit, 
(Dee.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN"  TO  PAGE  124  ] 

15 


It's  all  in  fun!     Anita  Page 

and  Mary  Lawlor  stage 

a  snowball  fight  and 

pose  for  this  cute 

battle    scene 


Just  for  the  Fun  of  It/ 


Fric?idly  Advice  on 

Girls'  Problems 


I  want  to  help  you.  Are  you  overweight?  Send  for  my 
booklet  of  reducing  exercises  and  non-fattening  menus. 
Are  you  worried  about  your  complexion?  My  skin  leaflet 
will  give  you  helpful  advice.  A  stamped,  self-addressed 
envelope  will  bring  you  either,  or  both,  or  other  advice 
on  personal  problems.  There  is  no  charge.  Address  me 
at  PHOTOPLAY,  221  West  57th  Street,  New  York  City. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


ONCE  in  a  while  I  come  across  a  girl  who  has  taken  all 
the  advice  about  self-improvement  just  a  little  too 
literally.  Jane  Margaret  is  evidently  one  of  these. 
Jane  Margaret's  signature  has  become  familiar  to  me 
over  a  period  of  years.  Every  now  and  then  a  letter  from  her 
turns  up  on  my  desk,  asking  for  my  suggestions,  and  occasion- 
ally an  enthusiastic  and  heart-warming  note  comes,  telling  me 
how  well  the  advice  has  worked  out  in  her  case. 

But  recently  I  had  a  letter  from  Jane  Margaret  which  dis- 
turbs me.  As  revealed  by  her  letters,  and  by  the  snapshot  she 
sent  when  she  wanted  advice  about  the  arrangement  of  her 
hair,  Jane  Margaret  is  an  attractive  girl.  She  is  overwhelm- 
ingly ambitious  to  make  the  most  of  her  talents,  to  make  her  life 
"important  and  worthwhile,"  as  she  puts  it.  And,  of  course, 
that  attitude  is  not  to  be  frowned  upon. 

Jane  Margaret's  latest  letter,  however,  shows  something  I 
hadn't  noticed  before.  She  is  forgetting  how  to  play.  She  is  so 
eager  to  improve  each  shining  hour  that  she  is  letting  all  the  fun 
pass  her  by.  If  she  doesn't  watch  out,  Jane  will  be  a  very  dull 
girl. 

Books  are  read  solely  to  develop  her  mind.  Friends  are 
chosen  because  they  come  from  "nice"  families,  have  the  right 
background  and  can  provide  the  right  contacts.  Everything  is 
calculated,  and  nothing  done  for  the  joy  of  doing  it. 

She  asks  mc:  "Shall  I  join  an  ice-skating  club  made  up  of 
neighborhood  boys  and  girls?  They  skate  in  the  park  when  the 
weather  permits  or  meet  one  evening  a  week  at  a  nearby  indoor 
rink.     They're  a  nice  bunch  and  I  would  like  to  know  some  of 


them  better,  but  I  get  plenty  of  exercise  and  I  feel  it  is  a  lot  of 
time  to  give  up  every  week." 

She  adds,  rather  wistfully  it  seems  to  me:  "  I  like  to  skate  and 
think  I  could  become  a  really  good  skater,  if  only  I  had  the 
time  for  it." 

DO,  do,  take  the  time,  Jane  Margaret.  Don't  be  so  stingy 
with  yourself.  Perhaps  ten  years  from  now  you  will  have 
more  leisure  to  skate,  and  will  have  lost  interest  in  learning. 
Because  our  interests  do  change  with  the  years,  and  what  seems 
so  desirable  and  worthy  of  attainment  today  may  fail  to  stir  us 
in  the  least  on  some  tomorrow.  Certain  interests  and  pleasures 
belong  to  certain  definite  periods  of  our  lives,  and  if  we  put 
them  off  too  long  we  find  it  is  too  late  to  enjoy  them. 

Life  is  a  serious  matter,  especially  when  one  is  just  approach- 
ing its  biggest  problems.  Time  must  be  guarded,  before  it  slips 
away  and  leaves  us  with  nothing  accomplished,  with  wasted 
talents  and  rejected  opportunities. 

But  a  girl  of  Jane  Margaret's  naturally  serious  temperament 
needs  to  cultivate  a  more — well,  not  frivolous,  but  let's  say. 
light-hearted  viewpoint.  Similar  to  that  of  Elsie  T.,  whose 
letter  lies  on  my  desk  now. 

ELSIE  writes:  "  My  brother  scolds  me  for  spending  my  money 
on  dancing  lessons  and  pretty  clothes,  when  I  might  be 
taking  postgraduate  work  at  the  university  and  fitting  myself 
for  a  position  more  important  than  the  one  I  hold.  Because  I 
am  not  thinking  seriously  of  marriage  (I  am  only  nineteen  and 
feel  I  have  plenty  of  time),  he  thinks  I  ought  to  be  planning  a 
career.  I  suppose  he  is  afraid  I  might  not  marry  at  all,  and  he 
thinks  I  should  have  some  other  absorbing  interest  to  fill  my 
fife. 

"I  tease  him  and  tell  him  my  most  absorbing  interest  right 
now  is  to  have  a  good  time,  to  get  all  the  fun  out  of  these  years 
when  life  seems  so  happy.  We  had  a  rather  difficult  childhood 
because  our  parents  died  when  we  were  quite  young,  and  it 
seems  so  wonderful  that  at  last  we  have  grown  up,  that  he  is 
happily  married  to  a  girl  I  admire,  and  that  I  have  been  able  to 
finish  school  after  a  long  financial  struggle. 

"I  earn  enough  to  pay  my  own  expenses,  and  I'm  perfectly 
content  with  the  things  I  can  provide.  I  worked  mighty  hard 
all  through  school  and  graduated  from  the  university  with 
honors. 

"I'm  not  burning  the  candle  at  both  ends  either.  I  spend 
many  of  the  'quiet  evenings  at    [  please  turn  to  page  109  ] 


Photoplay  Maoazini  ros  Jani  uiy,  I     I 


■7 


An  Ideal  Xmas  Gift! 

This  New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  the 

Stars  t°hfe  Photoplay 

Combined  with  18  months  subscription  to 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

"Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  represents  the  very  fin- 
est collection  of  beautiful  art  portraits  of  screen 
celebrities   ever   assembled    under   one   cover. 

250  Reproductions  in  Rotogravure  of  the  Stars,  and  the 
facts  you  want  to  know  about  them 

DO  YOU  KNOW? 


Which  feminine  stars  have  married  millionaires — 

which  ones  foreign  titles? 
The  color  of  Claudette  Colbert's  hair7 
The  name  of  the  picture  that  made  Clara  Bow? 
How  much  Lorctta  Young  weighs? 
Where  Chevalier  was  during  the  World  W.ir7 
Th.it  R.iqucl  Torres'  type  is  unique  on  the  screen? 
What  occupation  engages  Robert  Montgomery's 

leisure  hours? 
That  Stan  Laurel  came  to  America  as  understudy 

to  Charlie  Chaplin  in  a  stage  skit? 
Who  was  once  engaged  to  the  grandson  of  the 

Kaiser? 
The  name  of  Irene  Rich's  husband? 


Why  Will  Rogers  Ivcame  a  screen  actor? 

Which  dramatic  school  Buddy  Rogers  attended? 

The  real  name  of  Lew  Cody? 

What  star  weighs  exactly  one  hundred  pounds? 

How  many  times  Alma  Rubens  has  been  married? 

How  the  talkies  gave  John  Boles  his  big  chance? 

Where  Belv  Daniels  was  born? 

How  old  is  Mane  Dres  ler7 

Whether  Jeanette  MacDooald  has  ever  married7 

How  Jack  Oakie  got  his  start7 

Gilbert  Roland's  nationality7 

Which  fair-haired  star  was  disowned  by  her  father7 

That  Buster  Kcaton  was  born  in  a  tent? 


The  answers  to  these — and  hundreds  of  other  questions — just  the  information  that 
you  and  your  friends  want  can  be  found  in  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay." 

Size  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay,"  7, ' 4  x  lO,1^  inches;  individual  portraits, 
71  _>  inches.    A  biographical  sketch  accompanies  each  portrait. 

You  can  obtain  this  remarkable  book  with  an  18  months  subscription  to  Photo- 
play Magazine  for  only  $4  00.  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  sells  regularly  for  -  - 
an  18  months  subscription  to  Photoplay  $3  75.  The  regular  price  of  the  two  com- 
bined is  $5.00.  You  will,  therefore,  save  Si  .00  by  taking  advantage  of  this  unusual 
offer.  We  recommend  the  combination  offer,  but  if  you  want  only  "Stars  ol  the 
Photoplay,"  just  send  Si  .25. 

If  you  wish  to  send  as  a  Christmas  gift,  insert  the  name  of  the  person  to  whom 
you  wish  it  to  go,  on  the  coupon,  and  ycur  own  name  on  the  extra  line  at  the  bottom 
provided  for  this  purpose,  and  we  will  send  a  Christmas  card  to  the  rccip.ent  noti- 
fying her  of  her  gift. 


Photoplay  Magazine  {Stars  op  the  Photoplay] 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


PH.  1-31 


Enclosed  please  find  $ □  check     D  mo-iev  order      0  cash,  for  which  send  me 

□  The  New  1930  edition  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  and  enter  -"ion  to  Photopiat  Magazine 
for  18  months  effective  with  the  next  i- 

(Special  Rate:  $4.00  U.  S.  and  possessions;   $4.50  Canada;   $5.00  Foreign.) 

□  The  New  1930  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay" — now  only  $1.25. 


.\jmr. 


Street. 


City. 


.State. 


Gi/i/rom  [nairie] 

When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


i8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  January,  1931 

After  Breaking  All  Records  in 


HELLS 


Opens  in  London  Receiving  Greatest 


THE  LONDON  MORNING  POST 

acclaims  "Hell's  Angels"  "The  finest 
achievement  yet  shown  on  any  screen." 


LONDON  DAILY  EXPRESS 

says,  "Greatest  masterpiece  the 
screen  has  ever  known." 


6  6 


THE    TALKIES'    FIRST 


BOSTON  EVENING  TRANSCRIPT: 

'The  most  spectacular  sky  saga  yet 
filmed,  far  above  such  aerial  circuses 
as  'Wings'  and  'The  Dawn  Patrol.'  " 

ZIT'S  THEATRICAL  WEEKLY: 

"  'Hell's  Angels'  can  follow  all  the 
others  and  still  make  them  look  like 
the  preliminary  bouts." 

Every  advertisement  In 


THEATRE  MAGAZINE: 

"No  theatregoer  who  is  decently  grate- 
ful for  the  divine  gift  of  eyesight 
should  fail  to  see  'Hell's  Angels.'  Be- 
side the  sheer  significance  of  'Hell's 
Angels'  all  stage  spectacles  and  colos- 
sal circuses  become  puny.  Deserves 
to  be  witnessed  and  applauded  in  ev- 
ery picture-house  in  the  world." 

rilOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay    Magazine  tor  January,  l'Ml 


"9 


I, os  An«;«kl«vs.  Neu  York  ami   Itoslnn 

ANGELS 

Praise  Lver  Afforded  a  ^lohon  Picture 


LONDON  TIMES: 

"Has    no   equal    on    the 
screen." 


LONDON  DAILY  SKETCH: 

"London  was  thrilled  by  'Hell's  Angels'  as 
never  before.  Unbelievable  excitement 
after  excitement  flashes  upon  the  screen.'' 


Actual 

Scene 

from 

"Hell's 

Angels" 

Showing 

Authentic 

German 

Dirigible 

Flown 

in  the 

Picture 


GREAT    SPECTACLE* '-""""*'" PMure 


HARRISON'S   REPORTS: 

"  The  best  spectacle  that  has  ever  been 
produced  in  motion  pictures." 

KEW  YORK  GRAPHIC: 

"Most  beautiful   shots  and  thrilling 
action  the  movies  have  yet  built. " 

LOS  ANGELES  HERALD: 

"  'Hell's  Angels'   will  never  be  sur- 
passed for  sheer  thrills  and  spectacle.'' 


Magazine 


SEATTLE   STAR: 

"Stands  alone  as  greatest  of  air  pic- 
tures. A  production  which  will  never 
be  duplicated." 

EXHIRITORS'  HERALD-WORLD: 

"Undoubtedly  one  of  the  world's 
greatest  motion  pictures.  Presents 
spectacles  such  as  never  have  been 
seen  before,  and  does  so  without  in- 
terrupting the  thread  of  the  story." 


When  TOT  write  to  a  .  -e  mention  riTOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  January,  1931 


With  that  *3  you  save 

buy  cold  cream  for  yourself — 
razor  blades  for  your  husband 

There  are  so  many  things  you  can  buy 
with  that  $3  you  save  by  using  Lis- 
terine  Tooth  Paste  at  25(f  instead  of 
dentifrices  in  the  50d  class.  Cold  cream 
and  razor  blades  are  merely  suggestions. 


How  REFRESHING.,  how  CLEANSING. .  how  SAFE 

—  this  modern  thrift  dentifrice 


HERE  is  a  dentifrice  at  256  that 
will  win  you  the  moment  you 
try  it. 

You  will  be  delighted  by  the  won- 
derful refreshing  effect  it  has  on  the 
mouth — a  feeling  of  cleanliness,  in- 
vigoration  and  well-being  that  you 
associate  with  Listerine  itself. 

Note,  too,  how  gently  but  how 
swiftly  it  erases  tartar  and  discolora- 
tions  from  the  teeth.  Note  how  it 
penetrates  into  those  hard-to-get-at 
crevices  between  teeth,  and  sweeps 
away  fermenting  food  particles. 

After  you  have  tried  Listerine 
Tooth  Paste  a  few  days,  examine 


your  teeth  and  see  how  much  more 
attractive  they  are.  You  will  also 
perceive  that  they  are  beginning  to 
have  a  delicate,  lovely  luster.  This 
is  due  to  the  presence  of  modern 
polishing  agents,  which  keep  teeth 
looking  their  best. 

You  will  discover 
an  immediate  im- 
provement in  the  hy- 
giene of  your  mouth 
and  the  appearance  of 
your  teeth. 

Moreover ,  Listerine 
Tooth  Paste  is  safe  for 
all  types  of  teeth.   Its 


cleansing  ingredients  are  the  most 
costly  obtainable  and  are  selected 
because  of  their  gentle  action.  They 
simply  cannot  harm  enamel. 

Get  a  tube  of  Listerine  Tooth 
Paste.  You  will  be  delighted  by  its 
results  and  by  its  economy.  Lambert 

Pharmacal  Co.,  St. 

Louis,  Mo.,  U.  S.  A. 


The  makers  of 

Listerine  Tooth  Paste 

recommend 

PRO-PHY-LAC-TIC 
TOOTH  BRUSHES 


Every  advertisement  in  rHOTOn.AY  magazine  is  euaranteed. 


SUNNY"  is  just 
the  word  tor  this 
sparkling  girl,  who 
pirouettes  from 
triumph  to  triumph 
on  stage  md  screen 
with  everlasting 
grace  and  charm.  If 
you  feel  you  need 
to  regain  lightness  of 
he..rt,  we  prescribe  a 
copious  dose  of 
Marilyn  Miller  in 
her  new  "Sunnv" ! 


Marilyn  Miller  (Mari- 
lyn Reynolds)  was 
born  in  Evansville, 
Ind.,  Sept.  1,  1900. 
She  is  5  feet.  3; 
weighs  100  pounds, 
has  blonde  hair,  green 
eyes.  Has  been  mar- 
ried twice 


■ 


larence  Sim  Hir  Bull 


Dorothy  Jordan  was  born  in 
Clarksville,  Tenn.,  Aug.  9. 
1910.  She  is  5 feet,  2;  weighs 
100  pounds,  has  brown  hair, 
blue  eyes.  Played  in  musical 
comedy 


T  TP  from  the  South  at  break  of  day — New  Year's  day,  1929, 
*-J  to  be  exact — came  this  lovely  child  to  enter  pictures. 
Luck,  and  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer,  gave  her  leading  roles  opposite 
Ramon  Novarro  in  his  song  romances.  Since  then  Dorothy  Jordan 
has  charmed  her  way  into  the  public  heart 


r\ON'T  those  blue  eyes  search  right  through  to  the  depths  of 
■^'your  own?  Ah,  well,  you're  in  good  company.  We 
needn't  burden  you  with  the  superfluous  information  that  the 
ocular  artillery  belongs  to  Constance  Bennett,  now  taking  a 
holiday  after  finishing  "Sin  Takes  a  Holiday"  for  Mr.  Pathe 


Constance  Bennett  wis  born 

nedaughn- 
Bennett.     She  it 

-  102.  has  light  hair  and 


mil. 

Hill   t4  •*«  l  •  •• 

i4ll(lf  M««>i<  |t 

........  444444. 

_    »4>«4  Hf*J*4 J.'fT**Lm. 

**iiiBHli*** *****Ti>*'      . 

^W"""  ...  .«4.  .  ...  nw*.... 
ttf*-*  "«"<»»t».i>im>»nlWWttt 
r„  '"♦**44  .444  .4.4«#4444-4>*»*44.4 . 

^^■U^^'4  444.4  44.44.44«...    'l<l<|||||MIII'«""" 

S"I4444J|  ,"44»m«l1l<*«"«l<<"4    | 

V**        WL' 'Hill'    ♦«<«<*«44»,4M44)«4««. 

iVj    r  Bfl,,,  :*<**,****«-4«4)*«-4*404««**4«;7 


/CONTRASTING  Charles  and  Wally,  as  we  know  them.  Mr.  Charles 
^'(Ex-Buddy)  Rogers,  who  has  lately  been  exploring  the  quieter  pleasures  of 
Europe  with  his  mother,  has  not  changed,  despite  the  fact  he  smoked  a  ciga- 
rette in  "Heads  Up."  Wally  "Big  House"  Beery  makes  a  neat  foil  in  his 
typical  role  of  a  gentleman  seeking  a  profitable  introduction  on  a  dark  night 


T)  ESSIE  looks  at  peace  with  the  world — and  why  not,  pray? 
-L'Still  young  and  pretty  after  fifteen  years  on  the  lots,  a  loving 
husband  named  Bill  Hawks,  a  tremendous  talkie  triumph  in  "The 
Broadway  Melody"  in  1928,  and  since  that  time  all  the  free-lance 
work  she  wants !     Good  for  Bess ! 


Bessie  Love  (Juanita  Horton  i 
was  bom  in  Midland,  Tex.. 
10,  1898.  She  is  five 
feet  tall,  weighs  100  rounds, 
has  blonde  hair  and  brown 


r 


HL 


rreli 


Adolphc  Jean  Menjou  was 
horn  in  Pittsburgh,  Feb.  18, 
1891-  He  is  5  feet,  10 '/a; 
weighs  155,  has  dark  brown 
hair  and  blue  eyes.  Married 
to  Kathryn  Carver 


BACK  again  after  his  absence  from  American  films.  Menjou 
fans  are  giving  him  a  welcome  to  prove  he's  no  expatriate,  now 
that  the  suave,  sleek  'Dolphe  is  playing  again  on  the  home  grounds. 
In  "New  Moon"  and  "Morocco"  he  makes  us  wonder  why  the 
producers  ever  let  him  get  away  from  America 


s 


A 


Richw 


AFTER  a  grand  trip  around  the  world  on  a  plugging  freighter, 
the  little  French  charmer  is  hack  on  the  |oh  at  Paramount. 
Claudette  Colbert  reported  to  the  top  sergeant  at  the  Long  Island 
studio,  and  was  immediately  handed  a  story  to  do.  And  who  will 
be  in  the  supporting  cast  but  ole  Charlie  Ruggles 


Claudette  Co!  Sen   real  name 

Chauchotn.  was  horn  in  Pan* 

J,  1907.   She  u 

rvas   brow: 
hair  \-  -:ed  tc 

■iter 


A  CHAT  in  the  fog.  The  scene  is  a  dingy  ferry  landing,  and  the  picture 
•*■  *•  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's  "Passion  Flower."  Director  William  C.  De 
Mille,  right,  talks  over  the  action  with  Kay  Johnson  and  Charles  Bickford, 
who  have  the  leading  roles.  A  great  studio  set,  to  our  way  of  thinking.  Doesn't 
the  place  fairly  drip  dampness?    You  can  almost  smell  the  old  river! 


January,  i<?Ji 


The    National     Guide 

to     Motion      Pictures 

.  IHADK   HARK  1 


Ni 


Close- 
Long 


B 


EWSPAPER  head- 
line :  '"  Valentino's 
Funeral  a   Publicity 

Stunt  .  .  .  fifteen  hundred 
policemen  and  forty  press- 
agents  hired  to  put  it  over." 

That's  not  true.     I  know  it 
is  not  true. 

The   police    who    were   sta- 
tioned  at    the   (  ampbell   Fu- 
neral   Parlor  where  the  body 
of  the  film   idol   lay   in   state 
were  assigned   by   the   New 
York   police  department.       The   police   who 
lined  the  sidewalks  on   the  >t reels  through 
which  the  funeral  cortege  passed  on  its  way 
to   the  church    were  assigned    l>.v   the   police 

department. 


THE  only  press-agent  who  had  anything 
to  do  with  the  sad  affair  «;h  the  regular 
publicity  man  for  ( 'amphell's.  In  justice  to  the  mem- 
ory of  Rudolph  Valentino  I  cannot  permit  these  Libels 
to  pass  unchallenged. 

I  made  1 1  it"  arrangements  for  the  church  services.  I 
was  pre-ent  when  the  funeral  services  were  planned, 
and  assisted  in  the  selection  of  the  casket.  And  I  may 
add  that  it  was  far  from  being  the  most  expensive 
casket  in  the  establishment. 

IF  it  had  been  a  publicity  stunt  then  the  publicity 
men  were  dumbbells.  For  one  of  the  most  interest  - 
ing  stories  in  connection  with  that  funeral  was  that  it 
almost  brought  about  open  warfare  between  the 
Pacisti  and  the  anti-Facisti  factions  of  New  York. 
The  story  has  never  before  been  printed. 

Without  the  slightest  suggestion  from  anyone  in 
charge  of  the  funeral  arrangements,  four  men  in  the 
black  shirts  of  the  Facisti  organization  appeared  at  the 
funeral  parlor  on  Broadway  and  announced  that  they 
had  been  sent   to  stand  guard  over  the  body. 

They  were  told  that  they  were  not  wanted  but  they 
would  not  leave,  and  they  proceeded  with  their  self- 
constituted  duty. 


Up 
-Sh 


S  mui 

ots 


y 


James  R.   Quirk 


Perhaps  they  were  sincere 
in  their  desire  to  honor  their 
dead  countryman.  Hut  I  al- 
ways Suspected  they  wen- 
pulling  a  publicity  stunt  for 

t  hem  m'I  \  cs.       \  ny  how.    it 

seemed  better  to  permit  them 
to  remain  than  to  have  the 
police  throw  them  out. 


T! 


HE    next    day    two    men 
showed  up  at  Valentino's 
old  apartment  in  the  Ambas- 
sador Hold  and  demanded  that  the  Facisti 

guard    be  given    the   gate.      They    said    they 

represented    the    anti-faction,    and    made    a 

direct  threat  that  they  would  start  trouble  it" 

the  black  shirts  were  permitted  to  remain. 

They  were  referred  to   the   police,  ami, 

what's  more, the  police  were  referred  to  them. 

Then-    was    no   trouble,    but    for   a    while    it 

looked  as  though  an  Italian  civil  war  was  going   t  > 

break  loos,- 

Would  that  have  made  a  headline  for  the  tabloids* 

I  M  isti  Battle  Over  Valentino's  Body." 

If  Valentino  had  a  press-agent  he  was  a  dead  one. 

CLARA  HOW  doesn't  seem  to  have  any  more  luck 
with  her  secretaries  than  some  big  business  men 
The  first  oik-  married  Clara's  pappy,  and  the  second  i- 
yelling  Clara  ain't  done  right  by  her.  The  day  after 
secretarial  rumpus  number  two  started  in  the  news- 
papers, Clara  received  an  application  for  the  position. 
It  read: 

"I  am  a  capable  Stenographer,  intelligent  and 
refined,  but  am  now  working  as  a  librarian.  This  work 
is  dull  and  sedentary  and  I  would  like  a  cha: 

Young  lady,  I  am  no  fortune  teller,  but  I  can  tell 
you  that  if  you  get  the  job,  you  your 

wish. 

AGRFAT  Russian  director  named  Serge  Fisen- 
stein.  creator  of'*  Fotemkin."  came  to  this  country 

under  contract. 


He  was  1 1 1 « » inventor  of  the  word  "montage,"  which 
gave  highbrows  of  the  cinema  something  to  argue 
about.  I'm  oof  quite  sure  what  it  means.  lie  hud  ;i 
tousled  head  of  hair,  a  perfect  command  of  English,  ;i 
grand  personality,  an  extraordinary  intellect,  and  a 
great  sense  of  humor. 

He  went  to  Hollywood  and  was  entertained.  He 
was  mentioned  to  direct  "An  American  Tragedy."  He 
had  a  swell  time.  He  was  one  of  the  most  deservedly 
popular  personalities  in  the  colony. 

Then  his  contract  was  up,  and  he  hadn't  done  a  tap 
of  work.  "Just  didn't  know  what  to  give  him, 
couldn't  agree  on  a  story,"  was  the  answer. 

THE  point  is  that  Mr.  Eisenstcin  six-nt  almost  six 
months  in  Hollywood,  at  two  thousand  dollars  a 
week.  He  didn't  get  an  opportunity  to  contribute  a 
.single  camera  shot  to  the  American  screen,  hut  he  did 
learn  everything  there  is  to  know  about  the  making  of 
sound  pictures — all  for  the  benefit  of  the  Russian 
movie. 

Well,  Serge  was  paid  pretty  liberally  for  learning  all 
the  new  tricks  of  pictures.  Damn  clever,  these 
Rooshians! 

HERR  DIRECTOR  LUBITSCH  says  he  never 
heard  of  "sex  appeal"  until  he  came  to  this 
country.  The  Germans  must  have  a  word  for  it  even 
if  they  have  to  put  seven  or  eight  words  together  to 
convey  the  idea  to  each  other. 

Have  you  seen  his  "Monte  Carlo"  yet?  Then,  see 
it.  Sick  in  bed  with  pneumonia  and  rheumatism,  that 
Dculschcr  lad  could  make  a  better  picture  than  the 
average  director  in  the  pink  bloom  of  health. 

WIRE  from  an  exhibitor  of  Springfield,  111.,  to 
the  home  office  of  Radio  Pictures  after  "Check 
and  Double  Check"  was  shown  to  the  inhabitants  of 
the  martyred  president's  home  town. 

"  Xever  since  Springfield  sent  Abraham  Lincoln  to 
the  White  House  has  this  town  gone  as  wild  as  it  did 
over  Amos  and  Andy  on  the  screen." 

Ah,  how  pleased  and  proud  Mr.  Lincoln  would  be  if 
he  were  with  us  now! 

THERE'S  a  studio  gateman  out  in  Hollywood  who 
earns  twenty-five  dollars  a  week  and  has  a 
manager.  He  wants  to  be  an  actor.  On  his  day  off 
his  wife  puts  up  a  lunch  for  him  and  he  chases  all  over 
Southern  California  in  his  old  Ford,  looking  for  Wally 
Beery  pictures. 

The  wife  tells  the  neighbors  he  is  studying  technic. 

IRVING  BERLIN'S  music  has  always  been  popular. 
Yet  four  out  of  five  of  the  songs  he  wrote  for  a  forth- 
coming United  Artists  picture  were  cut  out  because 
"The  public  is  tired  of  songs  and  singing  in  pictures." 
Gentlemen,  gentlemen.     The  public  is  not  tired  of 
songs  and  singing. 

They're  just  fed  up  with  the  musical  noises  and 
senseless  lyrics  that  come  forth  from  Hollywood  with 
all  the  lilting  cadence  and  ecstasy  of  a  sausage  machine 

SO 


transforming  little  porkers  into  hot  dogs.  If  you 
don't  think  so,  go  and  watch  the  audience  while  they 
listen  to  Grace  Moore  in  "A  Lady's  Morals."  There 
is  a  picture  in  exquisite  good  taste,  and  there,  my 
friends,  is  song  and  singing. 

BELIEVE  it  or  not.  Carl  Laemmle  thinks  we 
newspaper  and  magazine  editors  and  writers  are 
not  as  dumb  as  we  write.     He  asks  us: 

"Do  screen  producers  'underplay'  or  'overplay' 
their  attractions? 

"What  are  your  views  on  musical  pictures;  on 
silent  pictures;  on  today's  theater  going  public? 

"Won't  you  be  so  kind  as  to  write  me  a  brief  note 
giving  your  frank  opinion?" 

If  there  is  anything  we  like  better  than  a  good  cold 
stein  of  Pilsner  beer  it  is  to  give  advice  to  producers 
who  have  been  making  pictures  for  twenty  years. 

Our  answer  is — yes  and  no. 

IN  Melcher,  Iowa,  lives  George  Arthur  Fletcher,  a 
produce  merchant,  who  has  never  seen  a  picture. 
Says  he  was  taught  to  forego  the  theater,  along  with 
tobacco  and  booze.  '  He's  fifty  years  old,  and  says  he 
would  substitute  the  church  for  the  cinema. 

Brookline,  Mass.,  one  of  the  richest  communities  in 
the  world,  has  no  motion  picture  theater. 
Perhaps  we  should  send  out  missionaries! 

LISTEX  to  the  lament  of  the  Marquis  Henri  de  la 
Falaise  de  la  Coudray,  Gloria's  latest  ex : 
"Hollywood  is  no  place  to  be  married.     When  you 
are  married  there,  everybody  tries  to  tear  you  apart. 
When  we  were  married,  had  I  kept  my  wife  in  France 
the  present  situation  would  not  have  arisen." 

Can't  you  see  the  beautiful,  exotic  Gloria  as  a 
French  housewife,  carrying  her  basket  to  market  every 
morning,  Sundays  excepted,  and  rushing  home  to 
make  the  onion  soup?    Yes,  you  can! 

MOTION  pictures  are  not  artistic,  complain 
so  many  critics,"  said  Executive  Manager 
Wunder,  of  the  Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and 
Sciences,  in  a  speech  in  Hollywood  the  other  day. 
"Why,  what  do  they  mean?  Don't  people  realize  that 
seven  arts  are  blended  in  the  talking  picture:  painting, 
poetry,  literature,  architecture,  music,  dancing  and 
drama  .  .  .?"  And  just  the  very  next  day,  the  title 
of  "Dark  Star"  was  changed  to  "Min  and  Bill." 


I 


T  has  been  suggested  that  the  reason  "It"  became 
so  popular  in  Hollywood  is  that  it  is  so  easy  to  spell. 


HERE'S  a  hot  one.  A  certain  producer  in  Holly- 
wood interviews  writers  while  in  his  private 
Turkish  bath  on  the  studio  lot.  And  a  director,  whose 
reputation  is  bigger,  and  whose  publicity  is  more  in- 
teresting than  any  picture  he  has  produced  in  years, 
always  has  scenarios  read  to  him  as  he  lies,  eyes  closed, 
on  a  davenport  in  his  office.  Perhaps  that's  why  his 
pictures  are  so  flat. 


Wedding   Bells/ 


WELL,  it's  happening  at  last  and  Dame  Rumor  is  quiet, 
for  once ! 

By    the   time   you   read   this   Charlie   Farrell   and 
Virginia  Yalli  will  be  married,  unless  all  plans  go  agley. 

For  years,  you  know,  Charlie  and  Virginia  have  been  friends. 
Not  long  ago  Virginia  went  to  New  York  with  her  pal,  Colleen 
Moore.  She  returned  earlier  than  she  had  planned  and  the 
papers  announced  that  she  was  homesick  for  Hollywood.  The 
truth  is  that  she  and  Charlie  arranged  the  details  for  their 
wedding  over  long  distance  telephone  one  night  and  Virginia 
took  the  next  train  home. 

As  this  is  being  written,  they  plan  to  marry  just  as  soon  as 
Charlie  finishes  his  picture,  "The  Man  Who  Came  Back." 
That  will  be  sometime  in  the  middle  of  November.  It  will  be  a 
quiet  wedding.  Besides,  Charlie  begins  another  film  almost 
immediately. 


Charles    Farrell 


They  hope  to  get  away  for  a  few  days'  honeymoon.  Julanne 
Johnston  will  be  Virginia's  attendant  and  if  Colleen  Moore 
returns  from  the  East  in  time  she  will  serve,  too.  The  three  girls 
are  inseparable  chums. 

Virginia  has  been  married  once  before,  to  a  non-professional, 
but  this  is  Charlie's  first  march  to  the  altar. 

Rumors  of  the  wedding  have  been  flying  thick  and  fast  and 
although  Charlie  laughed  them  off  he  never  failed  to  add,  "But 
believe  me,  Virginia  is  the  sweetest  girl  in  the  world." 

Their  courtship  has  been  a  beautiful  romance.  Even  the 
role  that  Janet  Gaynor  played  in  Charlie's  life  has  never 
stopped  him  from  loving  and  admiring  Virginia,  and  Virginia 
has  been  ever  his  loyal  comrade.  Glamorous,  beautiful  Virginia 
Yalli.  Smart,  sophisticated,  charming.  Lucky  boy — that 
Charlie  Farrell. 

Photoplay  wishes  them  both  the  joy  they  deserve! 

31 


Clara  Bow's  critics  —  the  press,  the  hoity- 
toity  public  and  other  actors  are  forever 
denouncing  her,  poking  fun  at  her  and 
otherwise  making  her  life  miserable.  Now 
she  has  turned.  And  in  this  picture  you  see 
the  great  flapper  taking  the  offensive 


nr 


HE  trouble  with  me  is — I'm  not 


By  Pau 


own    diagnosis   of    the    scandals 

which  nearly  cost  her  her  job  and  her  screen  career. 

Clara  is  hurt.  First  she  suffered  ridicule  because  she  fell  in 
love  with  Harry  Richman.  She  was  a  single  girl  and  he,  a 
single  man,  but  did  their  mutual  eligibility  matter? 

Then  the  newspapers  noticed  she  was  gaining  weight!  They 
hooted. 

Then  an  unhappy,  intensely  personal  affair  in  Texas.  Re- 
porters tore  her  decency  to  shreds! 

Finally,  gambling — with  Clara  this  time  luridly  represented 
as  a  welcher. 

Now  Clara  is  tired  of  being  picked  on.  She  is  afraid,  too, 
pitifully  fearful,  of  the  hostility  she  imagines  everywhere,  in 
everything,  in  everybody. 

In  New  York,  where  she  was  engaged  in  making  scenes  for 
"No  Limit,"  the  horror  of  a  new  misunderstanding  so  gripped 
the  little  Bow  that  she  would  shut  herself  up  in  her  hotel 
immediately  after  working  hours.  She  would  see  nobody,  go 
no  place.  And  because  she  didn't  like  the  hotel  kitchen,  she 
made  herself  bilious  dining  on  chocolate  creams. 

I  found  her  there,  wretched  over  the  abuse  she  believes  she 
has  suffered,  grimly  determined  to  give  the  newspapers  no 
further  opportunity  to  misrepresent  her.  And  a  more  frail, 
crushed,  self-pitying  little  soul  you  never  did  see  than  the 
tempestuous  "It"  girl.  It's  quite  true  that  Clara  lacks  the 
armor  of  pretense  and  evasion  with  which  a  more  sophisticated 
girl  might  have  protected  herself.    And  she  knows  it. 

"I've  never  been  a  sneak,  that's  the  trouble  with  me,"  she 
diagnosed  shrewdly.  "Why,  I've  never  done  a  thing  that 
everybody  else  in  Hollywood  hasn't  done.  I've  never  done  a 
thing  actually  bad.  I've  been  so  convinced  of  that,  I  never 
even  tried  to  learn  how  to  be  sneaky! 

"I  may  have  made  mistakes.  I  certainly  must  have  been 
foolish.  But  my  greatest  mistake  seems  to  have  been  that  I 
was  open  and  above-board  about  everything. 

"Reporters  would  come  to  see  me,"  Clara  illustrated  her 
honesty,  "I'd  always  receive  them.  I'd  tell  them  the  truth. 
But  they  never  printed  it.     They  never  even  quoted  what  I 


/  Jarvis      .  ,  ., .  ,    .  ...    ,._     . 

had  said,  but  made  up  something  different. 

"Everyone    tried    to    picture    me    as 

tough,"  she  continued  plaintively.  "They 

tried  to  make  me  seem  to  talk  out  of  the  side  of  my  mouth. 

What  could  I  do?" 

What  could  Clara  do,  indeed?  She  never  learned  the  cycle 
of  newspaper  personality.  One  reporter  writes  a  clever  story 
in  which  a  character  appears  tough.  Another  reporter  borrows 
the  tough  characteristic  in  the  next  story.  A  third  intensifies 
it.  A  fourth  intensifies  the  third.  Until  a  monumental 
toughness  is  achieved.  And  it  sticks  to  that  personality  in 
every  press  reference  thereafter. 

Clara  doesn't  understand  this  game  to  which  she  has  lent 
herself.  She  feels  crushed  and  humiliated  by  the  unfairness 
of  it.    And  her  reaction  has  been  her  vindication. 

The  Brooklyn  bonfire,  the  hotsy-totsy  red-head,  who,  they 
say,  "gets  mixed  up  in  unsavory  romances,"  who  "welches  on 
gambling  debts,"  could  have  reacted  in  only  one  way.  The 
bizarre  Clara  Bow  heroine  on  the  screen  would  have  reacted  in 
only  one  way.  That  wild  girl  would  have  gone  out  to  show 
'em.  A  little  bolder,  a  little  wilder,  a  little  louder.  Her  answer 
to  the  challenge  would  have  been  defiance. 

BUT  Clara  is  licked.  She  distrusts  and  suspects  the  world. 
Never  having  learned  to  be  guarded  in  her  conversation, 
she  prefers  not  to  talk  to  anyone.  She  dresses  more  quietly. 
Carries  herself  with  more  dignity. 

"I'm  anxious  to  throw  off  the  old  personality,  even  on  the 
screen,"  said  Clara.  "I'm  going  to  be  grown  up  and  discreet. 
I'm  going  to  play  more  dramatic  stories,  a  more  dignified  type 
of  role.  I'm  going  to  make  pictures  which  give  me  some- 
thing to  do.    I'm  going  to  work  hard." 

All  Hollywood  agrees  that  Clara  Bow  is  a  hard  worker. 
And  she  never  is  so  happy  as  when  she's  working.  She  never 
gives  the  studio  so  little  trouble,  or  herself  so  few  regrets. 

Clara  is  a  trouper  born,  and  she  wears  scars  of  work.  Scars 
on  her  shoulder  record  one  scene  in  which  she  had  to  drop  a 
burning  cigarette  from  her  lips.  A  long,  vicious  scar  down  her 
finger  testifies  to  another  courageous  work  day. 

Her  ambition  to  work  hard  is  an  inspiring  one.     But  a 


i  ( 


My    chief    trouble    is    that    I'm    not    a    sneak!'    says    Clara 


uit  Pickin'  On  Me/" 


Cl 


says 


clTcl 


ow 


The  famous  little  Brooklyn 
Bonfire,  snapping  back  at 
her    critics,   says    she 


boy 
work 
dramatic    talki 


giv 
for 


ing 
ha  r 


up 
d 


I 


is 
r  i  e  n  d  s 

ig 

es 


1  n 


program  without  play  for  a  twenty-five  year 
old  woman! 

"What  about  romance""  I  asked  with 
decent  reluctance. 

"I'm  through  with  that.  Men  are  funny. 
They  want  to  make  you  over.  They  like  me 
for  what  I  am,  then  when  they  find  they  can't 
change  me,  they  lose  interest.  Or  if  they  do 
change  me,  they  lose  inten 

"What  about  Harry  Richman?" 

"All  over  months  ago.    A  mistake." 

"Rex  Hell?" 

"I  like  him  very  much.  Rex  is  a  nice  clean 
boy.  I  appreciate  his  friendship.  But  it's 
only  friendship." 

Hard  work.  Xo  romance.  No  didoes.  No 
escapades.  Surely  Clara  is  entitled  to  some 
moderate  dissipation.  And  she  has  it  all 
picked  out.  "I  like  to  eat,"  she  announced 
with  startling  abruptness.  "You  can't  get 
anything  good  to  eat  in  New  York.  At  home 
I  have  good  food.  And  I  have  my  dogs,  five 
of  them.    They're  my  companions." 

So  La  Bow,  disillusioned,  distrustful, 
mellowed  by  a  new  wisdom  for  which  she 
paid  a  dear  price,  has  turned  the  acutely 
critical  point  in  her  career.  She  wants  to  be 
good.     She  wants  to  start  again. 

Paramount  has  faith  in  her  resolution. 
Just  when  the  anti-Bow  bacilli  were  most 
active  in  all  the  newspaper  blood  of  the  coun- 
try. Paramount  renewed  her  contract  and  laid 
plans  for  her  new  films.  Her  fans  beg  that  she 
be  given  a  chance  to  "act."  They  detect  a 
quality  in  Clara  never  quite  revealed  in  her 
exuberant  "It"  roles. 


Illustrated    by    V 


a  n 


r  s  C 


la  1 


b 

r  61 


Clara,   off  screen,   has  a  startling  suggestion  of  the 
Janet  Caynor.     She  is  little,  almost  frail     pathetic.     With  ail 
her  wealth  and  fame,  she  makes  people  impulsively  say,  "Poor 
kid."     Her  eyes  are  fine.     The  very  forthrightnos,  which 
almost  her  undoing,  gives  her  an  appealing  charm. 

Clara's  motherless  childhood  has  been  deplored  before.     Her 
father   has  been  discussed  generally.     Alone  and  immature. 
Clara  has  been  preyed  on  by  anyone  who  could  use  her.     N 
at  twenty-five,  Clara  Bow  faces  a  new  test.     A  discreet,  dig- 
nified young  woman  must  appear  as  a  dramatic  actress. 

he  faced  her  old,  Clara  faces  her  new  test  alone.  Loved 
by  millions,  Clara  has  nobody  to  love.  Artlessly  Clara  told  the 
Story  in  one  eloquent  sentence  that  afternoon  on  location  in 
New  York.  "I  want  to  go  home,"  said  Clara  wistfully.  "I 
miss  my  cook." 

Nobody  to  miss  but  her  cook!   The  mad,  bad,  flaming,  ram- 
bunctious Clara  Bow! 


Did  you  know  that  eating  is  one  of  the  fondest   things 

Clara  Bow  is  of?  When  she's  away  from  Hollywood,  she 

doesn't   miss   boy  friends,   but   her   cook!      Maybe   this 

explains  some  of  Clara's  curve-trouble  in  the  past 


Richee 


COME  of  the  lines,  of  course,  are  in  the  script 
^that  Frances  Dee  is  studying.  The  others 
are  part  and  parcel  of  Frances  herself.  She's  the 
new  Good  Luck  Girl  at  Paramount.  After  her 
hit  in  "Playboy  of  Paris"  she  was  re-signed! 


SJ,. 


Lines   and 

Lines 


x-Millionaire 


The  movies  paid  Francis  X. 
Bushman  $6,000,000  and 
today  he  is  flat  broke — but 
oh,    he    had    a   swell   time! 


FRANCIS  X.  BUSHMAN  ia  forty-six  years  old. 
For  thirty  of  these  years  he  has  worked  at  his  pro- 
.  >Mi  screen  and  stage. 

During   that    time,    he   has   been    paid    more   than   six 
millions  of  dollars. 

today  he's  broke!  Flat  broke!  His  chauffeur  sued  him 
for  salary,  even,  and  Bushman  promised  the  judge  to  pay  off 
in  installments. 

And  he  doesn't  care.  That  is,  it's  no  tragedy  to  him.  At 
Least,  so  he  says. 

"I'm  not  a  bit  sorry  I  spent  it."  he  says.  "I  had  a  whale  of 
a  good  time.     And  I'll  always  be  able  to  earn  a  living." 

As  this  is  written,  Bushman  is  playing  the  leading  role  in 
■  stage  play  called  "Thin  Ice,"  in  stock  on  the  Pacific  coast. 
It's  not  a  very  good  play,  and  the  critics  aren't  very  excited 
about  it  or  Bushman.  It  probably  won't  last  long.  Then 
Bushman'll  have  to  find  some  new  job  in  his  line. 

During  1929,  he  worked  before  the  camera  only  sixteen 
days.  Whatever  he  does  in  pictures  again,  he  admits,  won't 
be  much.  Not  because  he  isn't  willing  to,  but  because  the 
producers  don't  seem  to  be. 

"Ever  since  'Ben  Hur',"  he  says,  "I've  been  blacklisted. 
Only  a  few  independent  producers  with  courage  have  used  me. 
I've  never  been  in  a  major  studio  since  then.  Perhaps  I  could 
have  lifted  the  blacklist,  but  I  wouldn't 
crawl.  I'm  not  the  crawling  kind.  Rather 
than  do  it,  I'll  become  a  flagpole  sitter.  r>  7' 

"Other  stars  and   the  public   may   feel  -D  y      10/// 


The  godlike  Bushman 

head  in  the  days  when 

flappers  went  wild 


been    sweet    to    me,    and    their 


pity  for  me.  The  deuce  with 

that!     I  don't  want  pity  or 

sympathy.    I'm  happy.  All 

I  want  is  the  chance  to  en- 
tertain   my    public.      They've 
applause  is  still  sweet  in  my  ears.      I  hey  haven't  forgotten  me. 
I  learn  that,  every  time  I  step  on  a  stage,  even  if  the  prodi. 
have  forgotten." 

\\  here  did  his  millions  go,  you  ask? 

"I  spent  'em,"  he  tells  you.     "Never  was  money  spent  BO 
joyously,  and  no  one  could  ever  have  had  a  better  time  than 
I  did.     I  circled  the  globe  thrice,  and  have  visited  more  than 
forty  countries.      There  are  still  some  I'm  going  to.     Th 
why  I'm  still  plugging. 

"Bush  Manor  ate  up  a  lot,  and  so  did  lawsuits." 

BI'SII  MANOR  was  his  million-dollar  estate  in  Maryland. 
That  was  around  1915.  lie  had  a  great  stable  of  hunting 
horses,  and  a  quarter  of  a  million  dollars'  worth  of  furniture. 
Then  came  divorce  and  litigation. 

"Two  and  a  half  years  of  litigation  about  my  divorce,"  he 
summarizes,  "ended  in  my  getting  nothing.  Mrs.  Bushman 
got  mighty  little  after  the  lawyers  were  through. 

"Then,"  he  says,  "there  were  income  taxes  and  penalties. 

"  I    never   bothered    with    such    things. 

I   had   five  or   six   secretaries   and   a   valet 

£*"  ,         .  and  I  let  them  attend  to  it.     Several  years 

.A.  €  ll  T  later,   the      [please  turn  to  PACE  114] 


Is  Francis  X.  Bushman  dreaming  of  the  days  when  he  looked  like  the  picture  above,  and  the  money 
rolled  in?    Here  he's  shown  resting  in  his  dressing  room  in  a  Hollywood  theater 


35 


A     Couple     of     Great     Screen     Youngsters 


The  Pride  of  the  House  of  Green  as 

she  looks  in  "Tom  Sawyer."    Older 

film  players  do  honor  to  Mitzi  as  a 

first  rate  artist  of  the  screen 


w 


*E  used  to  have  such  fun,  but  I  guess  he's  getting 
too  old  for  me." 

How  many  women  have  sighed  that  sigh!  But 
this  time  it  comes  from  a  ten-year-old  woman, 
Miss  Mitzi  Green,  who  takes  her  disillusionment  with  gallant 
composure. 

"  It  all  began  when  I  first  went  to  Hollywood,"  Mitzi  sighed, 
referring  to  the  engaging  young  man  on  the  page  opposite. 
"  Junior  and  I  lived  in  the  same  apartment  house.  We  had  such 
good  times.    We  played  tennis  on  the  roof.    We  went  riding. 

"Then  one  day  father  went  riding  with  us.  He  didn't  want 
to,  but  we  insisted.  And  he  fell  off  his  horse.  His  arm  was 
broken.  I  thought  he  was  dead.  It  was  terrible.  We  had  to 
rush  him  to  the  hospital.  Of  course,  he  wasn't  very  cordial  to 
Junior  while  wc  were  taking  him  to  the  hospital.  I  guess 
Junior  got  offended.  Anyway,  he  didn't  come  over  to  play 
after  that. 

"He's  fifteen,  though.  Maybe  he  only  thought  he  was 
getting  a  little  too  old  for  me." 

Mitzi  is  as  wise  as  she  is  talented.    Leon  Janney's  a  nice  boy, 

36 


"He's  Getting 
Too  Old 

For  Me/" 


Sighs   Mitzi    Green 


too.  And  he's  only  thirteen.  And  there  was  Jackie  Coogan, 
charming,  with  whom  she  had  to  be  in  love  for  "Tom  Sawyer." 

It  is  work,  after  all,  which  means  everything  to  Mitzi. 
Working  is  such  fun.  She  catalogues  her  pictures  by  the 
amount  of  fun  she  had  making  them. 

"We  had  the  most  fun  making  'The  Santa  Fe  Trail,'  "  she 
recalls.  "Junior  and  I  just  rode  and  rode.  We  had  a  grand 
time.  'Tom  Sawyer'  was  fun,  too.  Jackie  and  Junior  and  I 
were  together. 

""V/OU  know,  as  Becky,  I  had  to  play  love  scenes  with  Jackie. 
J-  \\  e  had  a  terrible  time.    We  just  couldn't  keep  from  grin- 
ning.    I  hadn't  much  to  do  in  the  picture,  but  I  guess  playing  a 
straight  part  was  good  experience  for  me." 

She's  deep,  this  brilliant  ten-year-old  movie  star.  As  unlike 
a  stage  child  as  you  hope  and  expect  from  her  dazzling 
screen  personality.  Mitzi  is  a  real  little  girl,  so  frankly  childish 
she's  refreshing.  She  plays  kid  games.  She 
enjoys  kid  toys.  She  is  bored  by  sustained 
conversations.  And  she's  taking  up  bridge 
so  she  won't  have  to  talk  to  adult  inter- 
viewers for  any  longer  time  than  it  takes  her 
to  produce  the  cards. 

Her  parents  appreciate  her  self-sufficiency 
and  resourcefulness.  They  let  her  meet  the 
public  without  coaching,  prompting  or  even 
their  presence  in  the  room. 

The  grown-up  stars  on  the  Paramount  lot 
admire  and  respect  her  as  a  superior  artist. 
Every  star  in  New  York  called  on  her  at  the 
Paramount  Theater,  while  she  was  making 
personal  appearances.  Clara  Bow.  Nancy 
Carroll.     Mary  Brian.    All  of  whom  she  admires. 

Junior  Durkin  called,  too.  They're  still  great  friends,  in 
spite  of  the  unfortunate  incident  of  papa's  horseback  ride. 

"I  love  Hollywood,"  says  Mitzi.  "You  can  be  outdoors  all 
the  time.  There's  so  much  to  do  there.  The  only  thing  I  don't 
like  about  it,  is  that  I  really  haven't  girl  friends." 

Women  might  find  Mitzi's  great  sense  of  humor  and  shrewd 
talent  for  mimicry  rather  trying.  As  they  might  envy  her  great 
success,  her  captivating  charm,  her  popularity  with  the  boys. 

BUT  that  isn't  the  trouble. 
Mitzi  dislikes  the  girls.    "  They  won't  play  like  children  in 
Hollywood.    They  want  to  go  to  dances.    They  act  like  grown- 
up people.    And  evervbodv  knows  grown-up  people  have  very 
little  fun." 

That  can  never  be  said  about  the  roguish  Mitzi.  She's  cer- 
tainly one  of  the  most  remarkable  children  of  her  time.  A 
trouper  born,  batting  about  vaudeville  with^her  parents  from 
tothood,  she  still  retains  all  the  charm  and  sense  of  fun  that 
distinguishes  childhood  from  the  dull  elders. 


Consent     to     Tell     All     About     Each     Other 


55 


"She  Just 
Steals 

Every  Picture, 

Says   J u  )i  i o  r   D  u  r k  in 


J  I Mi  >R  DURKIN  admits  that  taking  Mitzi's  father  for  a 
horseback  ride  may  have  been  unfortunate.  Hut  be  won't 
admit  he's  to,>  old  to  be  interested  in  Mit/.i.  In  New  York, 
where  lie  is  to  be  starred  in  a  Broadway  play  at  the  head  of 
a  cast  of  fifty,  lu-  is  ready  to  insist  that  Mitzi  Green  is  the 

greatest  woman  on  the  si  reen. 

"She's  wonderful."  says  Junior.  "She  steals  every  picture. 
She'll  probably  steal  'Tom  Sawyer.'  She's  fun  off  the  screen, 
too.  As  much  fun  as  a  hoy.  Gee,  we  had  a  great  time  making 
'Tom  Sawyer.'     We  played  miniature  golf  all  the  time. 

"Jackie  Coogan  owns  three  courses.  Everybody  has  a  course 
out  there.  There  must  be  three  in  every  block.  Good  ones,  too. 
You  know  if  you  have  real  estate  you  build  a  miniature  golf 
course.    Even  if  it  doesn't  make  big  money,  it  pays  the  taxes 

Finance  may  be  a  strange  topic  of  conversation  from  a  boy. 
But  remember  that  Junior  Durkin  has  been  a  self-supporting 
young  man  from  the  age  of  three.    He  went  on  the  stage  at  that 
very   early   age.      Last   year   he   scored   an 
emphatic   hit    in    "Courage."       The   movies 
idled  him  West.      And  his  biggest  role  is 
that  of  Huckleberry  Finn  in   the  immortal 
••  lorn." 

When  Paramount  makes  "Huckleberry 
Finn"  early  next  year.  Junior  will  return  to 
the  coast  to  play  the  title  role.  I  Ie  is  looking 
forward  to  it. 

As  much  as  Junior  admires  Mitzi  dreen, 
he  has  another  idol  in  the  movies.  Walter 
Huston. 

Not  Charles  Rogers,  not   Chevalier,   not  '   -~^ 

Ramon  Novarro.  Junior  has  his  own  theories 
about  acting.     "Huston  is  wonderful,"  he 
announces  enthusiastically.      "Why,   he  really   acts.      Every- 
thing he  does,  with  his  voice  and  his  gestures,  has  some  point. 
He  never  overacts,  either.     And  that's  as  important  as  just 
acting. 

I  WENT  to  see  him  in  'Abraham  Lincoln.'  Gee,  he  was  won- 
derful You  know  'Abraham  Lincoln'  was  just  about  the 
only  movie  they  made  that  children  could  enjoy.  They  just 
haven't  been  making  pictures  for  children.  That's  why  I  was 
so  glad  when  they  made  'Tom  Sawyer!" 

"  Have  modern  children  really  read  the  book?"  I  asked  this 
solid  young  man,  because  I  hail  had  some  doubts. 

"  I'll  say  they  have."  from  Junior.  "Why.  that's  a  great 
story.     Fverybody  still  reads  'Tom  Sawyer.'  ' 

Junior  is  as  bovish  as  he  can  be.  Like  Mitzi,  he  gauges  life  by 
the  measure  of  fun.  The  theater,  in  which  he  was  rehearsing, 
was  littered  with  paper  darts. 

The  first  scene  of  the  play,  being  a  schoolroom  scene  with 
twenty-eight  boys,  had  been  colored  with  Junior's  instinct  for 
realism.    Darts  and  spitballs. 


Junior  Durkin  in  his  ric-out  as 
Huckleberry  Finn  in  "Tom  Saw- 
yer." Junior,  at  fifteen,  has  made 
his  mark  and  a  bright  one — on 
both  stage  and  screen 


Junior  has  a  tutor.     He  actually  .  tin.     His  mothr- 

handles  his  financial  affairs  for  him.    He  has  an  agent  to  make 
professional   deals. 

Two  sisters,  a  few  years  older,  are  also  actors.  But  his 
parents  were  non-professional. 

Like  Mitzi,  Junior  loves  work.  Like  her.  he  also  loves  fun. 
Like  her.  he  contrives  to  have  it. 

They'll  have  it  together  again  in  "  Huckleberry  Finn."  And 
we'll  all  be  able  to  share  in  it. 

s  a  great  adventure  for  Junior,  as  well  as  for  Coogan  and 
Mitzi  -this  filming  of  Mark  Twain's  immortal  yarn. 

As  he  labors  away  in  crowded,  thundering  New  York,  no 
doubt  the  kid  will  be  thinking  of  the  coming  summer,  when  once 
more  he  can  put  on  the  rags  of  Hut  ■:  and  loaf  before  the  camera 
along  the  banks  of  whatever  they  use  in  California  for  the  old 
Mississippi. 

Gee — he'll  be  sixteen  then!    Wonder  if  Mitzi  ever  thinks 
of  that?     Well,  even  if  she  does,  she  probably  comforts  herself 
with  the  thought  that  then  she'll  be  an  oid  lady  of  air 
eleven. 


hatterton  &  J3 


arrymore 


Ruth  Chatterton  and  Nat  Pendleton  (the  amorous  life- 
guard) in  a  scene  from  "The  Laughing  Lady,"  one  of  the 
four  films  in  which  Miss  Chatterton  scored 


RUTH  CHATTERTON  and  John  Barrymore  were  the 
most  consistently  successful  performers  in  motion 
pictures  during  the  year  now  ending. 

Nineteen  thirty,  being  the  first  year  of  the  talking 
picture's  maturity,  was  a  man's  year  on  the  American  screen. 
Moreover,  the  year  just  fading  in  a  cloud  of  dust  saw  stage- 
wise  rookies  from  the  theater  take  a  firmer  grip  on  the  motion 
picture  situation  and  walk  off  with  at  least  half  of  the  laurels, 
medals  and  blue  ribbons. 

These  are  just  three  of  the  significant  conclusions  reached 
after  a  painstaking  analysis  of  the  screen's  best  performances 
for  1930  as  listed  monthly  in  Photoplay's  Shadow  Stage. 

During  the  twelve  months,  176  "best  performances"  were 
listed  in  this  magazine's  review  department.  They  range  from 
the  glittering  and  consistent  work  of  filmland's  aces  to  stunning 
single  performances  by  rockets  of  the  industry,  who  shot  up  in 
a  cloud  of  star-dust  and  then  fell  to  earth  with  the  stick,  to  be 
no  more  seen. 

Of  these,  no  less  than  108  were  given  by  men — the  other 


The  incomparable  Ruth 
and  handsome  John  take 
the  major  honors  in 

PHOTOPLAY'S    list    of 

best  performances  of 
past  year   in   pictures 


sixty-eight  being   the  property  of   the  ladies.     A 
man's  year,  my  masters! 

Ruth  Chatterton  led  the  distaff  division  with  no 
less  than  four  best  performance  ratings,  which  gives 
the  incomparable  Ruthie  an  average  of  a  hundred 
per  cent,  as  she  appeared  in  four  phonoplays  during 
the  year.  Her  record  was  chalked  up  in  "  The  Lady 
of  Scandal,"  "Anybody's  Woman,"  "The  Laughing 
Lady"  and  "Sarah  and  Son."  Chatterton  touches 
no  script  which  she  does  not  adorn. 


n; 


O  other  lady  of  the  floodlights  approached  Ruth 
with  as  many  as  three  stars  on  her  report  card. 
Those  actresses  who  gave  two  best  performances 
were  Mary  Brian,  Constance  Bennett,  Joan  Craw- 
ford, Marie  Dressier,  Marion  Davies,  Greta  Garbo, 
Dorothy  Jordan,  Norma  Shearer,  Jeanette  Mac- 
Donald,  Beryl  Mercer,  Marilyn  Miller  and  Helen 
Twelvetrees. 

In  justice  to  those  who  did  not  attain  Chatterton's 
eminence,  it  must  be  remembered  that  several  of  the 
two-star  girls  appeared  in  no  more  than  two  pictures, 
thus  making  their  batting  averages  a  hundred,  and 
so  equal  to  Ruth's  in  clean  base  hits  in  times  at  bat. 

Garbo,  for  instance,  made  but  two  pictures  in  1930 
— "Anna  Christie"  and  "Romance" — and  cracked 
out  a  screecher  in  each.  On  the  other  hand,  such  able  and 
admired  ladies  as  Miss  Dressier,  Miss  Crawford  and  Miss 
Mercer  appeared  in  more,  and  thus  stand  lower  in  the  averages. 
All  in  all,  thirteen  of  the  screen's  fairest  and  best  gave  two 
or  more  best  performances  during  the  past  year. 

Against  this,  set  the  astonishing  fact  that  no  less  than  twenty- 
two  men  are  credited  with  two  or  more  bests,  and  you  will  see 
that  it  was  a  virile  year  on  the  taut  sheets  of  the  republic. 

Leading  the  pack,  as  I  have  said,  was  Mr.  John  Barrymore, 
tried  trouper,  who  some  years  ago  left  the  theater  to  its  own 
devices  and  sold  himself  down  the  river  to  the  cinema  mills. 
Largely  profile  and  strip  tights  before  the  advent  of  the  micro- 
phone, the  ageing  but  still  handsome  Jawn  found  talking 
pictures  directly  up  his  alley,  and  in  1930  received  four  best 
performances  on  his  box  score  of  the  year's  labors. 

Beginning  with  "General  Crack,"  in  which  he  both  wore 
uniforms  and  turned  loose  the  Barrymorean  larynx,  his  year 
was  a  great  success.  His  Shakespearean  bit  in  "Show  of 
Shows"  was  the  outstanding  moment  of  that  revue,  his  work  in 


It  was   a  man's  year  in  the  talkies,  analysis  shows 


38 


L/ead    Ihe  Screen  1 


n 


1930 


By   I  .cot!  aril  Hall 


"Moby  Dick"  was  excellent,  and  in  "The  Man  From  Blank- 
ley's"  be  had  the  audacity  and  the  great  good  sense  to  turn  otT 
the  romantic  stop  and  give  us  the  first — and  still  the  best — 
fane  of  the  talkie  era,  farce  being  the  medium  in  which  he 

excels. 

UNLIKE  the  situation  existing  in  the  ladies' league,  several 
gentlemen  press  Barrymore  for  honors.  No  less  than  six 
mummers  turn  up  with  three  bests.  They  are  Edmund  Lowe, 
Gary  Cooper,  William  Powell,  Ramon  Novarro,  Warner  Baxter 
and  Jack  Oakie.  All  these  boys  performed  excellently.  Oakie 
seems  to  have  quite  stolen  Hill  Haines'  thunder.  Cooper  came 
through  excellently  in  Westerns,  and  Eddie  Lowe  in  the  crook 
sort  of  thing.  Powell  was  splendid  all  year.  Novarro  added  a 
waggish  comedy  talent  to  his  pleasant  voice  and  his  proverbial 
I  looks  and  knocked  off  three  medals  for  his  three  li«ht 
romances  with  music.  Baxter,  one  of  the  great  hits  of  talkie 
times,  scored  heavily  in  his  Western  romantic  pieces. 

In  addition,  fifteen  gentlemen  were  credited  with  two  hits 
apiece.  They  were  George  Arliss.  Richard  Arlen.  Lew  Avres, 
Charles  Bickford,  Ronald  Colman.  Maurice  Chevalier,  John 
Gilbert,  O.  I'.  Eieggie,  Buster  Keaton,  Robert  Montgomery, 
Chester  Morris,  Fredric  March,  Lowell  Sherman,  Lewis  Stone 
and  the  late  Milton  Sills. 

Of  the  veterans  in  pictures  no  better  year's  work  was  done 
than  by  Lewis  Stone.  His  two  best  performances,  in  "Romance" 
and  "The  Office  Wife."  were  [  pi  EASE  TT  kn   10  PAGE  104  ] 


John  Barrymore  as  he  looked  in  "General  Crack,"  his 
first  talking  picture,  and  a  success 


APPROXIMATE  BATTING  AVERAGES 
of  the  thirty-five  men  and  women  who  had  two  or  more  hest  performances  in  PhotoPI  W  - 

honor  roll  for  1930.     The  standings  are  arrived  at  hv  dividing  the  number  o(  picture- 
in  which  they  appeared  by  the  number  of  their  best  performances. 


ACTORS 


John  Barrymore 
Warner  Baxter 
William  Powell 
Ramon  Novarro 


100' 
100 
100 
100 


George  Arliss 100 

Ronald  Colman 100 

John  Gilbert 100 


Buster  Keaton 
Milton  Sills        . 
Lew  Ayres 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Lowell  Sherman    . 
Edmund  Lowe  . 
Gary  Cooper 
Jack.  Oakie 
Richard  Aden 
Charles  Bickford 
O.  P.  Heggie 


100 
100 
66 
66 
66 
60 
60 

50 
50 
50 
50 


Robert  Montgomery 
Chester  Morris 
Fredric  March 
Lewis  Stone  . 

At   !  RESS1  S 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Greta  (iarbo 
Dorothy  Jordan 

Marilyn  Miller 

Helen  Twelvetrees   . 

Marion  Davies 

Constance  Bennett  . 

Joan  Crawford 

Norma  Shearer 

Mary  Brian   .... 

Marie  Dressier 

Jeanette  MacDonald  . 

Bervl  Mercer    .... 


50 


100 
100 
100 
100 
100 
100 

66 
66 
66 
50 
50 


' 


Just  like  one  of  Evelyn  Brent's  movie  melodramas!     The  family  pup  utters  weird  growls  in  the  middle  of  the  night, 
so  Fearless  Betty  takes  a  horse-pistol  and  goes  out  to  investigate.    The  quaking  lady  in  the  rear  is  our  correspondent 

She  Eats  and  Tells/ 


AS  nearly  as  I  can  remem- 
ber, Harry  Collins,  one 
of  Hollywood's  distin- 
guished dressmakers,  was 
having  the  fall  showing  of  his  line 
of  frocks  and  I  had  a  couple  of 
tickets.  I  asked  Evelyn  Brent — 
Betty  to  me  and  the  rest  of  Holly- 
wood— to  go.  She  was  working, 
so  she  said,  "Come  over  and  spend 
the  week-end  with  me  instead." 

I  was  a  little  confused  myself 
and  I  couldn't  recall  that  Emily 
Post  had  ever  given  such  an 
answer  to  a  fashion  show  invita- 
tion, but  I've  never  been  accused  of  turning  down  invitations. 

I  packed  my  little  black  bag,  and  looking  like  a  lady  boot- 
legger, I  arrived  at  the  palatial  mansion  of  La  Brent  and  hus- 
band Mons.  Harry  Edwards,  the  director. 

I'm  a  pretty  snappy  kid.  Always  first  with  the  latest,  so  I 
said,  "Where's  Harry?" 

"He's  been  over  in  London  for  a  month,"  Betty  said.  "Don't 
you  read  the  papers?" 

Well,  I  hung  my  head  in  what  I  laughingly  call  shame  and 
followed  the  maid  upstairs  (she  wasn't  going  to  hide  that 
$10.50  bag  if  I  knew  anything  about  it)  and  made  myself  fairly 
respectable. 

That's  an  amazing  house.  From  the  outside  it  looks  enor- 
mous, like  some  ancient  white  palace,  but,  in  reality,  it  is  small 
and  intimate  inside.  The  upstairs  consists  only  of  a  frivolous 
dressing  room,  all  satin  chairs  and  enormous  perfume  cabinet 
loaded  with  hundreds  of  bottles,  a  hall  and  big  bath  room  and 
practical  sleeping  quarters,  almost  a  sun  porch,  with  twin  beds 
and  a  long  table  arrangement  where  Betty  has  massages. 

Downstairs — spacious  living  room,  dining  room,  breakfast 
nook,  kitchen,  bedroom  and  den. 

Betty  had  taken  off  her  make-up  and  changed  from  her 

40 


Evelyn  Brent  invites 
our  Katherine  Albert 
for  the  week-end,  and 
Katie  ups  and  lets  us 
in  on  what  happened 


working  clothes  into  a  little  dinner 
dress.  I  tried  to  act  as  if  the 
sleeveless  blouse  of  my  suit  was 
something  you  could  wear  in  to 
dinner. 

It  was  Saturday  night,  so  the 
Sunday  papers  were  spread  over 
the  floor.  Betty  went  to  answer 
the  'phone  and  I  stretched  out  on 
the  divan  to  look  at  the  papers. 
The  divan  is  all  gold  velvet  so  I 
jumped  up  quickly  when  Betty 
came  in. 

"That's  all  right,"  she  said. 
"I  haven't  a  piece  of  furniture 
here  that  you  can't  put  your  feet  on  or  jump  up  and  down  on 
if  you  like.  You  see,  before  I  married  Harry  I  had  just  fur- 
nished an  apartment  of  my  own  and  I  was  pretty  attached  to 
everything  so  instead  of  getting  rid  of  that  we  simply  added 
more  things  and  moved  them  all  here.  But  I  can't  bear  having 
anything  you've  got  to  be  careful  about.  Furniture  is  to  be 
used,  isn't  it?    Well,  then,  use  it." 

TT  was  funny,  but  right  away  I  didn't  want  to  jump  on  any- 
thing— maybe  because  I  knew  I  could,  you  old  psychologist. 
"I  think  a  couple  of  people  are  coming  for  dinner,"  Betty 
announced.    "They're  grand  people  but  they're  always  late  and 
I'm  hungry.    Maybe  I  should  call  them." 

When  she  came  back  from  the  'phone  she  said,  "Well,  it's 
all  my  own  fault.  They  say  I  said  I'd  verify  the  date  if  I 
weren't  working.  Maybe  I  did.  It's  just  like  me.  Lord,  I'm 
starved." 

Betty  does  things  well.  Her  table  looked  lovely  (I  wondered 
if  she'd  let  me  jump  up  and  down  on  the  stunning  spread  but 
decided  not  to  ask  her)  and  there  is  a  warmth,  a  friendly  sort 
of  glow  in  the  dining  room.  We  had  oyster  cocktails,  fried 
chicken,  whipped  potatoes,  string  [please  turn  to  page  120] 


GONE- Another 


I 


ngenue 


By 


M tri a  })i    Hughes 


A  YEAR  ago  a  meek  little  blonde  ingenue 
with  a  baby  voice  and  a  baby  face  went  on 
a  vaudeville  tour. 
Dozens  like  her  had  done  it.  Dozens 
had  failed  before  the  microphone  and  had  made  this 
final,  and  always  fatal,  step.  Well,  Esther  Ralston 
was  through,  you  said  sagely,  and  that  was  that. 
But  when  you  said  this  you  did  not  take  into  con- 
sideration one  George  Webb,  husband  of  the  baby 
blonde. 

Perhaps  you  mentioned  Webb.  Perhaps  you  remarked, 
along  with  the  rest,  that  had  it  not  been  for  him  Esther  would 
have  made  Paramount  give  her  a  new  contract.  It  was  too 
bad,  you  thought,  that  she  so  utterly  worshipped  the  cocky 
e\  vaudevillian  who  had  dominated  her  life  and  managed  her 
career.  That  guy  Webb  sticks  his  nose  in  everything.  Would 
be  a  lot  better  if  he  let  Esther  alone.     Esther's  all  right. 

Hut  Esther  wasn't  all  right  and  George  knew  it.  So,  one  of 
the  shrewdest  business  men  of  them  all  out-smarted  the  picture 
business  and  returned  to  Hollywood  with  a  new  and  vivid  star, 
named  Esther  Ralston!     Here's  the  story. 

A  year  ago  Esther  was  the  victim  of  old  inferiority  complex 
number  877-A.  Timid,  retiring,  she  yet  followed  the  accepted 

path  of  the  average  blonde  star.     Living,  as  she  did,  well  and 
luxuriously,  she  still  complained  of  the  hardships  of  picture 
work,  grumbled  when  she  was  called  on  the  set  before  they 
were  ready  to  do  her  scenes, 
insisted  that  she  have  a  stand- 
in  girl  to  endure  the  heat  of 
the   lights    while    the   camera 
men    were  lining  up,  and  de- 
manded special  luncheons  for 
herself    on    location.       These 
things  were  done  and  Esther, 
who  had  in  those  days  about  as 
much  aggressiveness  as  a  sun 
turtle,  did   them  all. 

Then  came  the  crash.  A  year 
before  her  five-year  contract 
had  expired  Paramount  wanted 
to  release  her.  But  Webb 
made  them  stick  to  the  clauses 
of  the  document.  And  during 
that  year,  when  she  was  defi- 
nitely slated  to  go,  his  mind  fairly  seethed  with  plans  for  her. 

He  knew  her  to  be  a  sweet,  mild  little  thing.  He  knew,  also 
that  her  voice  was  inadequate.  But  old  Doc  Webb  had  the 
panacea  for  both  these  ills.    Vaudeville! 

For  three  months  she  worked  and  at  last  had  an  act  con- 
sisting of  four  strenuous  dance  numbers,  which,  as  Webb  said 
later,  were  just  enough  to  make  the  audience  think  she  knew 
more  than  she  did. 


Forty-two 
hard  labor 
turn   Esther 
a    pungent 
and   a   sure 


N 


Esther   Ralston   today  — no   longer   the   meek   but 

synthetically  imperious  ingenue,  but  a  poised  and 

confident  woman  who  gets  what  she  wants  when 

she  wants  it 


Webb  had  seen  the  average  movie  star-act  in  vaudeville. 
The  star  greets  her  public  in  a  high  piping  voice,  sings  an  <>1d 
song  badly  and  retires.  Esther,  he  felt,  must  forget  pictures 
and    become    a    vaudevillian. 

She  must  lead  the  life,  the  strenuous,  nerve-wracking 
life.     She  did. 

In  Los  Angeles  she  was  Dot  so  forte,  for  stage  fright  had 

claimed  her  for  its  own. 


only  an  i  ly  timid  per- 

son knows  what  manner  of 
courage  it  took  for  her  to  step 
before  an  audience  alone  and 
do  an  act  which  she  believed 
she  did  not  do  well.  Had  it 
not  been  for  George  standing 
in  the  wings  she  could  never 
have  done  it. 

Every  performance  was  a 
new  conquest.  Every  audience 
had  to  be  won  singly.  Those 
tough  vaudeville  customers 
had  been  kidded  by  film  stars 
before.  They  wanted  to 
not  a  beautiful  woman,  but  a 
good  performer. 
It  was  up  to  Esther  to  give  it  to  them. 

She  played  for  forty-two  consecutive  weeks.  In  miserable 
tank  towns,  in  theaters  whose  dressing  rooms  were  not  big 
enough  to  hold  both  her  and  her  trunk.  Twenty  minutes  after 
the  last  performance  there  was  always  a  train  to  be  caught. 
Meals  in  fifth-rate  restaurants  between  shows.  Sometimes 
five  shows  a  dav — never  less  than  three.  Every  day  and 
Sunday,  too.  Work.  Work.  Work.  [  please  tvrn  to  page  108  ] 


weeks    of 

in  vaudeville 

Ralston    into 

personality 
-footed   star 


News'-Views! 


S 


tars 


A  perfect  picture  of  love  in  the  rough.  It's 
Viola  Dana  and  her  new  hubby,  Jimmy' 
Thompson,  a  young  golf  pro.  We  hope  he 
and  Vi  get  out  of  all  the  sand-pits  of  domes- 
ticity with  good  mashie  shots.  Vi  says  she's 
"Mrs.  Thompson,  housewife" 


WHEN  Gloria  Swanson's  interlocutory  decree  of 
divorce  from  the  Marquis  de  la  Falaise  was  granted, 
the  gentlemen  of  the  press  made  a  headlong  dive 
for  Hank. 
They  did  all  but  tackle  the  Marquis  around  the  knees  and 
bring  him  crashing  to  earth. 

With  one  voice  they  screamed,  "Are  you  going  to  marry 
Connie  Bennett?" 

The  gallant  Hank  responded  in  true  Gallic  style — namely, 
by  delicately  raising  one  eyebrow.  His  mouth,  alas,  he  kept 
shut. 

On  Nov.  6,  1931,  the  decree,  granted  for  desertion,  will 
become  final. 

And  then,  messieurs  el  mesdames,  we  shall  see  what  we 
shall  see! 

Oh  you  Hank!    You're  a  sly  one,  you  are. 

HEIGHO,  everybody!  Pola  Negri  is  threatening  to  head 
our  way  again! 

The  Perilous  Pole  says  that,  now  she  has  tossed  off  the 
matrimonial  shackles  that  bind  her  to  Mr.  Mdivani,  she  is 
coming  back  to  America  and  appear  in  a  play,  acting  right  out 
on  a  stage. 

"A  musical  dramatic  piece,"  Pola  calls  it. 

But  that  isn't  all. 

Negri  is  slaving  away  at  her  memoirs,  which  she  threatens 
to  call  "My  Confession." 

"I  am  going  to  tell  everything,"  she  says. 

Oh  lackaday  and  wirra  wirra!  If  Pola  does  that,  what  a 
ruckus  there'll  be. 

Let's  hope  she  curbs  her  temperament  and  uses  a  little  dis- 
cretion. 

y 


International 


A  little  statue  for  a  very  good  girl  indeed.  Conrad 
Nagel  presenting  Norma  Shearer  with  the  award 
of  the  Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and 
Sciences  for  what  it  called  the  best  performance 
of  the  past  year — her  work  in  "The  Divorcee." 
And  very  well  deserved,  we  say 


Else  there  may  be  a  run  on  the  Bank  of  England,  or  some- 
thing equally  fatal  to  the  welfare  of  the  world. 

NEW  YORK  was  hysterical  lately. 
Greta   Garbo  was  reported  attend'ng   theatrical   first 
nights — at  least,  Broadway  reporters  put  it  in  their  papers. 
At  the  next  premiere  there  were  more  people  in  the  street  than 
in  the  theater. 

No  dice.  It  turned  out  to  be  one  of  the  many  thousand 
cheap  road  companies  of  the  great  Swede  which  are  now  in- 
festing the  Republic. 

The  shows'  press  agents  are  suspected. 

Any  sap  who  can't  tell  a  phony  Garbo  from  the  real  isn't 
fit  to  be  a  ship  news  reporter  on  Pikes  Peak.  And  if  the  re- 
porters took  this  on  faith  from  the  press  agents  and  then 
printed  it,  they're  simply  bum  newspapermen  and  should  be 
booted  into  Circulation  Alley.  The  idee!  Getting  us  all 
worked  up  like  that! 

/*T^HEY'RE  telling  the  story  about  the  supervisor  who, 
after  a  preview,  introduced  one  writer  to  another. 
"Say,"  said  the  first,  after  they  had  shaken  hands  and 
the  second  writer  had  walked  away,  "isn't  that  the  fellow 
who  collaborated  on  this  story  with  me?" 

I"  a  certain  Hollywood  extra  girl  may  boast  for  the  rest  of 
,     her  life,  "am  the  girl  who  kicked  Mary  Pickford  in  the 
middle  of  her  career — and  got  paid  for  it!" 

It  was  during  a  scene  in  "Kiki."    The  action  called  for  the 


Gossip! 


By 

Cal  York 


nd  Studios 


International 


Their  night  of  nights!  Amos  and  Andy  before 
the  new  Mayfair  Theater,  New  York,  the  night 
"Check  and  Double  Check"  opened  on  Broad- 
way. Left  to  right,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  J. 
Correll  (Andy)  and  Freeman  Gosden  (Amos). 
The  boys  are  dressed  up  pretty  high,  what? 


star,  cast  as  a  street  gamin,  to  be  sent  reeling  by  another  girl's 
aptly  placed  boot. 

Director  Sam  Taylor  picked  one  of  the  extras  in  the  scene  to 
do  the  kicking. 

"You  kit  k   Miss  Pickford,"  he  said. 

"Where?"  asked  the  girl. 

Taylor  answered  her. 

The  girl  and  Mary  rehearsed  the  scene.  The  girl  was  ti><> 
sparing  of  the  royal  anatomy. 

"Harder!!!"   bellowed   Taylor. 

Next  time  the  girl  followed  instructions.  Mary  went 
staggering  across  a  street. 

"Swell,"  said  Taylor.  "Now  we'll  get  all  set  to  shoot  it 
again." 

Mary  is  reported  to  have  preferred  a  buffet  supper  that 
night. 

And  the  extra  girl  is  planning  to  preserve  her  right  shoe, 
under  glass,  for  posterity. 

Till".   Academy  of    Motion    Picture   Arts  and   Sciences  has 
made  its  annual  awards  for  the  best  picture  work  done 
during  the  year  ending  in  July. 
They  are — 

The  best  picture,  "AH  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front." 
The  best  director,  Lewis  Milestone,  who  made  "All  Quiet." 
Best  actor,  George  Arliss,  for  "Disraeli.'' 
Best  actress.  Norma  Shearer,  for  "The  Divorcee." 
Best  screen  writing,  Frances  Marion,  for  "The  Big  House." 
Best  art  direction,  "King  of  Jazz." 


The  scoop  of  scoops!  We  present,  with 
seemly  blushes  of  pardonable  pride,  the  first 
picture  of  Charles  (Ex-Buddy  Rogers  smok- 
ing a  cigarette.  It's  a  scene  from  his  recent 
"Heads  Up  ".  Is  Chuck  going  he-man  on  us, 
after  all  these  sweet  years? 


Best  photography,  the  two  boys  who  went  into  th< 
arctic  with  Admiral  Byrd. 

All  the  winners  get  little  statu.  their  visible  ; 

But    what   publicity! 

TV/TACK  SENNETT  reads,  in  a  trade  daily,  a  rumor  that 
■*"      he  and  Marjorie  Beebe  are  going  to  get  married. 

He  strokes  his  grey  hair  and  replies: 

"It's  not  true— BUT  it's  the  highest  compliment  paid  me 
in  a  long  time." 


M 


\RV  PICKFORD'S  miniature  golf  course  was  held  up 
and  robbed  of  midget  receipts      v~: 
And  they  said  those  things  threatened  the  talk: 

AND  did  you  hear  about  the  merry  wag  who  played  a  s>'lo 
game  on  a  Hollywood  golf  course  for  practically  a  whole 
evening,  and  tacked  up  this  sign  as  he  left: 
"Opened  by  mistake." 

\_X7E  report  that  William  Powell  and  Carole  Lombard 
are  "that  way"  about  each  other  at  the  present  time. 

It  used  to  be  plain  Carol,  but  after  a  visit  to  a  numerologist 
she  added  a  vowel. 

It  seems  quite  right  to  us  for  the  sophisticated  blonde 
to  be  attracted  to  one  of  Bill  Powell's  type. 

AND  who'd  ever  have  thought  that  Douglas  Fairbanks, 
would  play  comedy  under  Charlie  Chaplin's  direction? 
It's  true- in  one  scene,  anyway.     That'll  be  in  "Reaching 
for  the  Moon."  wherein  Fairbanks  and  Bebe  Daniels  are 
starred,  with  Edmund  Goulding  directing. 


/ 


How's  this  for  a  figure,  magnificently  encased 
in  a  silver  gown?  It's  the  new  Ina  Claire, 
minus  considerable  poundage,  as  she  appears 
in  the  leading  role  in  the  new  Paramount, 
"The  Royal  Family."  Yes,  sir,  Mrs.  John 
Gilbert's  an  ingenue  once  more ! 


It  so  happened  that  on  the  day  Charlie  visited  the  United 
Artists  studio  recently,  Fairbanks  and  Bebe  were  working  in 
a  farce  cocktail-drinking  scene. 

Charlie  stepped  on  the  stage  and  watched.  After  a  while 
he  shook  his  head. 

"The  tempo,"  he  said,  "is  all  wrong." 

"How?"  they  asked. 

"Watch,"  said  Charlie.  Then,  without  the  trick  shoes, 
moustache,  cane  or  hat,  Charlie  did  the  scene  in  pantomime- 
playing  each  part — Fairbanks',  Bebe's  and  even  Edward 
Everett  Horton's. 

"There,"  said  he,  "that's  the  way  it  SHOULD  be." 

"Do  it  that  way,"  ordered  Goulding. 

Fairbanks,  Bebe  and  Horton  did.  And  Chaplin  directed 
while  Goulding  stood  by  and  watched. 

A  USTIN  gag,  No.  548,279— 

■"■  Disgruntled  actor,  who  failed  to  get  a  contract, 
expresses  his  opinion  of  the  producer  who  declined  to 
hire  him: 

"Say,  I  just  seen  ALL  of  So-and-So's  friends  riding 
down  Hollywood  Boulevard  in  an  Austin,  beating  bass 
drums." 


International 

This  little  mite  of  Sepia  has  for  his  daddy  a  long, 
loose-jointed  colored  boy  who  could  be  one  of 
pictures'  great  comics  if  he  tended  to  business. 
It's  Stepin  Fetchit,  Jr.,  in  the  arms  of  his  mother. 
Pappy  was  on  the  Coast  making  a  picture  at 
Metro-Goldwyn 


THAT  Garbo  just  will  have  a  private  life  no  matter  what 
happens! 

The  other  day  she  dined  in  a  very  high-priced  restaurant  and, 
when  she  discovered  she  was  being  stared  at,  she  got  up  and 
left  her  dinner  upon  the  table. 

Most  of  the  Hollywood  stars  cheered  her  for  the  gesture  and 
spouted  the  usual  platitudes  about  their  private  lives  being 
their  own. 

They're  always  doing  that,  but  Ramon  Novarro  was  honest 
enough  to  speak  the  truth.    He  said: 

"As  long  as  I  put  myself  in  a  public  position,  I've  no  kick 
coming.    I  get  paid  for  it." 

That's  more  like  it. 

TT  THEN  Director  Herbert  Brenon  was  released  from  a 
W  sanitarium  where  he  suffered  a  nervous  breakdown  he 
was  given  a  certificate  declaring  that  he  was  perfectly  well 
again. 

The  other  day  on  the  set  he  had  an  argument  with  an 
electrician,  during  which  the  juicer  said,  "Oh,  you're  crazy." 

"Listen,"  said  Brenon,  "I've  got  a  paper  to  prove  I'm  not — 
which  is  more  than  you  have." 

'"pHEY'RE  saying  that  old  man  stork  is  hovering  around 
little  Bessie  Love's  back  door.    Bessie  says  'taint  so, 
but  that's  what  Norma  Shearer  said  for  a  long  time. 
You  just  can't  believe  these  blessed  eventers. 

OF  course,  nobody  would  suspect  Paramount's  press-agents 
of  such  things,  BUT  .  .  . 

Clara  Bow  gets  columns  of  publicity  about  gambling  at 
Calneva,  and  her  next  picture  turns  out  to  be  a  gambling  story 
entitled  "No  Limit." 

And  Jack  Oakie,  according  to  the  newspapers  across  the 
country,  gets  into  a  run-in  with  Chicago  gangsters  because  he 
wouldn't  contribute  to  a  fund  they  were  getting  up  and,  it  is 
announced  that,  in  revenge,  Oakie  is  put  "on  the  spot"  by  the 
gunmen. 

And  Jack  Oakie's  next  picture,  strange  to  relate,  is  titled 
"On  the  Spot." 


Ever  see  a  live  marquis  at  work?  Here's  your 
chance!  The  Marquis  de  la  Falaise,  etc.,  at  his 
desk  at  the  Radio  Pictures  studio  in  Hollywood, 
where  he  supervises  foreign  versions.  Hank 
says  nothing  on  the  Connie  Bennett  situation, 
though  Gloria  has  divorced  him 


CRASH!      Two  automobiles  occupied   the   same  space  on 
Sunset   Boulevard,  in  Hollywood,  at  the  same  moment. 
Out  of  the  wreckage  of  one  crawled  Hoot  Gibson,  shaken  up 
and  bruised. 

Out  of  the  remains  of  the  other  clambered  its  ex-driver,  cut 
and  bruised. 

He  surveyed  Hoot  Gibson  and  recognized  him. 
"You,"  he  grunted,  "ought  to  stick  to  horses." 
Then  they  took  him  to  the  hospital. 

IT  would  be  tough  on  a  certain  Yale  sophomore  if  Mary  Pick- 
ford,  Gloria  Swauson,  si  al,  should  move  out  of  Beverly  Hills. 

The  V.  S.  is  Martin  Tyler.  He,  too,  lives  in  Beverly  Hills. 
Four  years  ago,  while  he  was  a  high  school  lad,  he  and  a  friend 
used  to  play  tennis  on  a  court  at  one  of  the  district's  busier 
intersections. 

Many  autoists  used  to  stop  and  interrupt  the  game  to  ask  the 
way  to  Pickfair. 

By  and  by.  Tyler  got  wise  to  himself.  He  stopped  playing 
tennis  and  had  a  sign  painted: 

"Guide  to  Movie  Stars'  Homes."  He  charged  twenty-live 
cents  for  showing  autoists  how  to  get  to  the  various  players' 
residences. 

It  worked  so  well  that  he  organized  a  company  with  another 
lad  as  partner. 

They  bought  an  automobile  and  charged  one  dollar  per  for 
driving  tourists  around  the  star-home  district. 

It's  paying  Tyler's  way  through  college.  He  himself  works 
during  vacations;  during  college  months,  he  hires  other  youths 
to  do  the  guiding. 

WHAT  a  lazy  girl! 
For  five  weeks  Joan  Crawford  worked  every  day  (ex- 
cept Sunday)  on  "Within  the  Law." 

It's  Joan's  picture,  certainly,  for  she  is  in  almost  every  scene. 
Immediately  that  drama  was  finished  "Dance,  Fools,  Dance " 
was  awaiting  her. 

She  managed,  however,  to  have  a  week  off  between  pictures, 
but  it  wasn't  a  week  of  rest,  for  she  had  to  have  twelve  frocks 
made  and  fitted  and  had  to  learn  two  dance  routines. 


International 


Who  said  that  actresses  didn't  have  books? 
Little  Lois  Moran  gives  that  yarn  the  lie. 
She's  getting  off  at  the  New  York  deppo  with 
no  less  than  six— together  with  jewels  and 
make-up.  Lois  is  going  on  the  Broadway 
stage  after  a  vacation,  she  reports 


IT  was  one  of  those  large  and  distinguished  audiences  in  high 
hats  and  Rolls-Royces  that  turned  out  to  give  a  local  girl  a 
hand  during  the  local  opera  season. 

The  little  girl's  name  is  Hope  Hampton.  She  looked  beauti- 
ful and  her  costumes  were  enough  to  make  the  price  of  film  go 
up. 

She  sang  "Manon.  ' 

Everybody  who  was  anybody,  my  dear,  could  be  found  in 
the  audience. 

All  the  picture  people  who  don't,  as  a  rule,  go  in  much  for 
opera,  appeared,  including — yes,  sir — Greta  tiarbo. 

(~\NA  MUNSON  and  Eddie  Buzzell,  that  cute  little 
^married  pair  of  stage  and  screen  note,  are  reported 
on  a  year's  "trial  separation." 

Get  together,  kids.    Let  bygones  be  gone-bys.' 

Yi  >l"  probably  believe  Dolores  Del  Rio  is  a  Spanish  name, 
and  it  is. 
But   the  odd   thing  is  that   the  Spanish   newspapers  most 
customarily    call    her    Lolita    Del    Rio,    instead    of    Dolores. 
"Lolita"  is  an  affectionate  term  they  give  her. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  94  ] 

i5 


JVest, 


A  boy  and  a  girl,  a 
pullman  car,  and 
what  happened  at 
the    end    of    the    line 


HE  pretended  to  be  reading  his  magazine,  but  over  its 
edge  he  was  watching  with  alert  interest  the  curly 
blonde  head  that  had  boarded  the  train  at  Chicago. 
The  girl  was  traveling  alone.  He  was  alone,  too, 
except  for  the  secret  that  was  accompanying  him  on  the  long 
journey  to  Hollywood. 

She  removed  her  snug  hat  and  he  caught  half  of  the  little 
round  face,  with  its  big  brown  eyes  and  pouty  mouth,  primping 
in  the  slither  of  train  mirror.  But  he  missed  none  of  the  details 
— the  shiny,  patent  leather  luggage  initialed  M  M,  regarding 
which  she  cautioned  the  porter,  the  blue  traveling  suit  with 
blue  shoes  to  match — they  twinkled  when  she  sat  down  and 
crossed  her  shapely  legs,  and  the  gay  corsage  of  orchids  nodding 
at  her  shoulder. 

The  main  thing  was  that  she  was  traveling  alone  and  he 
would  have  the  pleasant  prospect  of  knowing  her  better. 

Before  the  curly,  blonde  head  had  made  its  appearance  there 
had  not  been  a  single  bright  thing  to  look  forward  to  during 
those  four  long  days  on  the  train.  He  had  carefully  scrutinized 
the  other  passengers  in  the  pullman — two  fat,  laughing  sales- 
men, mysteriously  boisterous;  an  old-maidish  school  teacher; 
a  middle-aged  man  and  his  wife  on  a  second  honeymoon,  and 
four  guttural  Italians.  Then  the  blonde  head  had  boarded  the 
dull  pullman,  and  the  sun  had  come  out. 


HE  smiled  a  welcome  across  the  aisle.  But  his  smile  went 
past  her  and  out  of  the  window.  He  shuffled  down  the  aisle 
a  dozen  times  for  a  dozen  drinks  of  water,  passing  her  seat  each 
time.  But  she  did  not  notice  him  the  twelfth  time  any  more 
than  she  had  the  first. 

"Would  vou  like  to  borrow  mv  magazine?"' 

"No,  thank  you." 

"Hot,  isn't  it?" 

"Yes,  thank  you!"  She  seemed  to  be  troubled.  A  little 
pucker  came  and  sat  where  her  dimple  had  flashed. 

"Going  all  the  way?" 

"Yes,  all  the  way!"  Then  she  burst  into  tears  and  rushed 
off  to  the  washroom. 

He  regarded  the  empty  plush  seat  moodily,  the  luggage  with 
its  intriguing  M  M,  her  paper  hat-bag  fastened  to  the  hook  like 
a  balloon  tugging  to  fly  away,  the  scampering  landscape  out- 
side her  window,  all  the  time  wondering  what  had  brought  her 
tears,  the  poor  little  thing! 

He  must  help  her.  But  what  could  he  do?  The  voice  of  the 
dining  room  porter  with  his  "first  call  fuh  lunch"  was  the 
answer. 

And  when  she  returned,  bright-eyed  and  freshly  powdered, 
there  was  the  luncheon  table  set  for  two  between  their  seats. 

"Won't  you  be  my  guest?"  he  invited.  "It's  awfully  lone- 
some eating  alone." 

"It  is  lonesome,"  she  agreed  shyly,  edging  into  her  place. 
"  'Scuse  me  for — for  crying — " 

46 


"Nothing  serious,  I  hope,"  helpfully. 

She  gazed  tight-lipped  out  of  the  window. 
"I'll  tell  you  about  it  some  other  time," 
soberly.  Then  she  grew  bright  again.  "  Mm, 
pickles.    I  love  pickles." 

"Knew  you  did." 

She   bit   into  one,   laughed   so   that   the  / 

dimple  came  back  into  being,  passed  him 
the  dish  of  olives,  and  dropped  three  lumps 
of  sugar  into  his  coffee. 

"How  did  you  know  it  was  three?" 

"I  know  a  lot  about  you — "  laughing 
coquettishly. 

He  blinked  into  the  bottom  of  his  coffee 
cup.    Who  was  she?    Was  she  a  detective? 
How  much  did  she  know?     How,  with  such  a  guileless  face, 
could  she  be  anything  but  innocent?   He  was  certain  his  secret 
was  safe,  and  the  fleeting  moments  added  to  that  certainty. 

IT  was  very  cozy  here  in  the  niche  of  the  two  pullman  seats. 
It  was  as  if  this  little  household  were  theirs  alone,  as  if  the 
outer  fringe  of  world  made  up  of  passengers,  porters  and  con- 
ductors did  not  matter. 

"Yes,  I'm  in  banking,"  he  confided  over  the  after-lunch 
cigarette.  He  came  very  close  to  the  brink  of  telling  her  that 
he  was  carrying  a  hundred  thousand  dollars  in  his  vest  pocket, 
that  he  had  stolen  this  money  from  a  bank  in  Philadelphia,  that 
he  was  a  fugitive  from  justice  and  a  dangerous  character. 

Suppose  he  confided  this,  what  would  she  do?  She  would 
probably  scream,  pull  the  emergency  bell  cord,  stop  the  train 
with  a  grinding  of  brakes,  and  summon  the  conductor  to  call 
the  police.  But  there  was  a  reason  why  he  must  tell  her,  if  not 
now,  then  later.     He  must  tell  her. 

"Yes,  I'm  a  banker — " 

A  brown  eyebrow  became  an  incredulous  question  mark  upon 
the  white  brow. 

"A  banker?    How  nice!  ' 


Y 


oung 


WANTED 


b  VE  ! 


By 
Beth  Brown 


"Name,  please?"  had 
come  a  business-like  voice 
from  behind  the  grille  work 
at  Central  Casting  Bureau. 
"Mary  Manners,"  she 
had  answered.  And  then 
the  grille  work  opened  and 
a  head  emerged 


He  did  seem  rather  young  for  a  banker,  not  more  than 
twenty-five,  perhaps  only  twenty-three.  His  brown  tweed  suit 
was  cut  in  carelessly  comfortable  fashion,  his  brown  brogues 
were  generous  and  heavy  as  if  they  were  accustomed  to  make 
firm  use  of  Mother  Earth.  His  blue  eyes  were  kind,  truthful 
and  inquisitive.  They  seemed  to  be  asking  all  sorts  of  personal 
questions  of  her,  which  she  must  try  to  evade. 

She  must  not  encourage  questions  until  she  had  worked  out 
a  plan.  She  had  decided  to  do  this  from  the  first  moment  she 
saw  him.  She  must  think  fast  and  have  her  plan  all  ready 
before  they  saw  each  other  again. 

"  1  did  enjoy  lunch.  Thank  you.  Now  I  think  I'll  take  a  nap. 
Goodbye!''  and  she  waved  gaily  as  if  she  were  going  off  on  a 
long  journey,  and  then  merely  took  a  step  across  the  aisle. 

"Here,  take  this  extra  pillow!'*  and  he  punched  it  as  if  he 
were  angry  with  it  because  it  was  going  to  be  so  close  to  her. 


I II mttrateA 

Frank      Godwin 


pillow  acquired  a  hollow  that  just  fitted  her  curly  head, 
bet  vou're  married,"  she  teased.  "You  have  the  right 
que—" 

ISO  I  were  married!'-  and  his  eyes  added  "to  you." 
regarded  her  intently.     "Qf  course,  you're  DOt?" 

'   \  \"  and  right  there  she  made  up  her  mind  as  to  a  plan. 
"Maybe  you'll  come  to  my  house  for  dinner?"  waving  t'> 
his  compartment. 

'  I'd  ratlur  see  you  after  dinner,  on  the  observation  car." 
'That'll  be  nice.    The  moon  and  I  will  be  there  with  rings 
on!    Now  enjoy  your  nap." 

To  give  her  the  proper  semblance  of  privacy,  he  screened  him- 
self behind  a  tall  magazine,  watching  one-eyed  over  her  slum- 
bers with  a  knightly  feeling,  quieting  the  porter  and  the  loudest 
of  the  passengers,  and  gesticulating  eloquently  to  the  conductor 
to  come  back  later  for  her  ticket  and  Dot  wake  her  r. 

Her  head  was  buried  deep  into  the  pillow.  All  he  could  see 
was  a  halo  of  gold  curls,  and  peeping  from  her  skirts,  one  round 
silken  knee.  She  was  a  very  tiny  thing,  and  she  looked  even 
tinier  when  she  cried,  but  bush,:  w\  if  sht 

a  lady  detective  he  would  tell  her  all  about  the  bank  robi 
in  his  own  way. 

*     *     * 

"  TT  is  a  beautiful  moon."  she  agreed.   They  were  all  alone  on 
JLthe  observation  platform,  all  alone  in  a  romantic,  moonlit 
world.     "And  those  hills  running  away  from  us  as  if  they're 
frightened—"    The  train  shuffled  and  sang,  the  rails  glimm 
and  blinked,  wise-eyed. 

Behind  her  elbowing  chair  was  the  cosy  comfort  of  the  lighted 
writing  room  with  its  call  to  relax.  [  PLEASE  turn  to  pack  114  ] 


^^//ollywood's  Only 
(Contented  ]VIan 


\ 


UP  IN  the  Hollywood  hills, 
just  off  the  widening  stream 
of  traffic  along  Cahuenga 
Pass,  lives  Hollywood's  only 
contented  man.  He  has  retired  with  a  competence,  not  a  for- 
tune, and  has  no  desire  to  return  to  pictures.  Fame  was  his, 
yet  he  has  walked  away  from  it  all,  and  is  content. 

This  astonishing  person,  this  riddle,  this  calm  philosopher 
whom  you  may  see  of  an  afternoon  on  the  terrace  of  his  home, 
reading,  with  his  two  fox  terriers  beside  him,  is  J.  Warren 
Kerrigan,  one  of  the  earliest  of  picture  idols  and  hero  of  "The 
Covered  Wagon." 

"I  am  very  happy,"  he  says.  "Xo,  I  don't  miss  the  studios 
at  all.  As  for  the  life  of  Hollywood,  I  never  was  a  part  of  that. 
In  my  picture  days,  I  worked  hard,  I  had  my  own  company, 
and  with  my  invalid  mother  and  brother,  I  had  little  time  for 
parties. 

"I've  never  been  to  a  movie  premiere  in  my  life.  Personal 
appearances  are  a  good  racket,  in  a  way,  but  I  hate  feeling  that 
I  have  to  open  my  mouth  for  the  curious  to  count  my  teeth. 
I  don't  like  crowds,  and  this  dress-up  and  artificial  business 
seems  false  and  senseless  to  me. 

"Marry?  Well,  I  never  did  because  all  the  girls  seemed  to 
get  wise  to  me.  I  was  engaged  several  times,  but  the  girls 
didn't  want  me,  I  guess.  But  then,  while  there's  life,  there's 
hope."    All  this  with  a  chuckle. 

Kerrigan  today  is  a  handsome  man.  Gray  about  the  temples, 
muscularly  built,  perfect  teeth  shining  in  an  engaging  smile  that 
ripples  off  into  dimples  in  each 
cheek,  with  glowing  health,  and 
the  quiet  humor  of  the  philosopher 
in  his  eyes. 

48 


J.Warren  Kerrigan's  goodbye  to  pictures.  Warren 

and  Lois  in  a  scene  from  "The  Covered  Wagon," 

his  last  film.  At  this  time  Lois  and  Warren  were 

said  to  be  romancing  'round 


By   Rosalind  Shaffer 


Becoming  serious,  he  added,  "You 
know,  Hollywood  and  its  marriages 
scare  a  thoughtful  person.  I  guess 
my  brother  Wallie  will  raise  the  fam- 
ily for  me.  You  know  Wallie.  He  used  to  have  the  United 
Costume  company,  and  at  one  time  was  Mary  Pickford's  man- 
ager.   He  has  three  boys." 

We  wondered  about  Lois  Wilson.  She  had  been  one  of  Ker- 
rigan's romances,  had  worked  with  him  in  pictures  for  over 
five  years,  and  had  been  with  him  in  "The  Covered  Wagon." 
Her  name  brought  this  response: 

"Lois  Wilson  is  a  wonderful  girl,  a  lovely  girl  of  a  lovely 
family.  She  was  always  the  flower  of  them  all,  personally  and 
professionally.    I  saw  her  recently — still  the  same  Lois." 

"T  TOW  was  it,  that  after  making  such  a  come-back  from 
JL  J.your  retirement,  in '  The  Covered  Wagon,'  you  never  went 
on  with  your  screen  career?"  I  asked,  as  I  rubbed  the  ear  of 
the  little  Missus  Fox  Terrier  in  a  conciliatory  manner. 

"I  really  made  'The  Covered  Wagon'  to  satisfy  my  mother. 
I  had  turned  it  down  several  times,  before  she  finally  persuaded 
me  that  I  should  go  back  to  the  screen.  You  see  this  retiring 
business  has  always  been  a  dream  of  mine.  I  wanted  to  get 
away  from  it  all  before  I  got  so  wrapped  up  in  it  that  I  could 
not  get  away.  After  the  success  I  had  out  at  Universal,  back  in 
those  days  when  Frank  Borzage,  Harold  Lloyd,  Hal  Roach, 
Jack  Holt,  John  Gilbert  and  Leatrice  Joy  were  part  of  that  big 
family  out  there  in  the  valley,  I  wanted  to  retire,  and  I  did. 

But  mother  wanted  me  to  go  back. 
"Then     after     'The     Covered 
Wagon'  I  made  a  few  more  films — 
'Girl  of  the  Golden  West'  with 


J.  Warren  Kerrigan,  one  of 
filmland's  earliest  idols, 
watches  from  his  Happy 
Valley  home  Hollywood's 
mad   pageant   thunder   by 


/ 


When  Kerrigan  was  "Jack,  the  Flappers'  Joy." 
This  is  a  scene  from  a  1915  two-reeler 


Picture   of   Hollywood's   only   contented  man   taking  his 

ease.     Stretched  out  on  the  lawn  of  his  home,  with  pup 

and  paper,  Kerrigan  watches  the  Hollywoodians  rush  past 

in  their  mortgaged  motors 


Eddie  Carewe,  a  picture  with  Harry  Carson,  and  in  1924 
'Captain  Blood'  for  Vitagraph.  Hut  they  were  nunc  of  them 
another  'Wagon.'  'Captain  Blood.'  planned  as  a  big  production, 
faded  to  create  a  stir  because  at  that  time  Warner  Brothers 
were  negotiating  to  buy  Vitagraph  and  the  picture  never  had 
any  exploiting.     I  dropped  out.     I  had  had  enough. 

"The  pai  e  is  too  strenuous  now.  Look  at  the  tine  men  who 
have  broken  under  the  strain;  Lon  Chaney  and  now  Milton 
Sills.  Many  others,  who  are  continually  dashing  to  the  moun- 
tains or  the  seashore  in  search  of  rest  for  their  tired  ner 
only  to  come  back  and  expend  their  energy  again  in  the  terrific 
pace. 

"I  have  my  house  and  garden.  I  like  to  putter  around,  and 
then  my  financial  interests  require  some  of  my  time.  I  I 
trips  last  year  it  was  Panama,  Cuba  and  Havana.  This 
year  it  will  be  Mexico  City,  and  a  trip  back  by  the  \\ 
for  the  fishing.  Canada  will  be  my  trip  for  next  year,  with 
hunting  and  fishing.  I  intend  to  sell  my  house.  All  the  old 
neighbors  have  moved  away  and  the  crowds  on  the  road  are 
so  thick  I  have  trouble  backing  out  of  my  garage. 

"V\  THEN  the  house  is  sold.  I'm  going  to  Kurope  for  a  g 

VV  Icing  trip.  Then  I'll  set  myself  upon  a  ranch  in  the  valley. 
I  think  I  have  the  right  outlook.  If  I  had  more  money.it  would 
be  a  burden  looking  after  it.  I  have.  I  think,  what  the  others 
dream  of  having  some  day.  I  like  to  see  a  picture,  after  the 
first  night  hullabaloo  is  over.  Of  the  new  star>.  Lawrence 
Tibbctt  is  my  favorite.  I  have  all  his  records  and  never  tire 
playing  them.  I  like  Wallace  Beery,  too.  Wasn't  he  grand  in 
'The  Big  House?'  Mary  Pickford  is  still  my  favorite  of  the 
women  stars. 

"Some  day.  if  someone  offers  me  a  really  good  role.  I  might 
do  a  picture,  just  for  the  fans  who  still  continue  writii  . 
me,  some  of  whom  I  have  corresponded  with  for  fifteen  and 
sixteen  years.     I  sometimes  meet  very  lovely  people,  fans  who 
come  to  Hollywood  and  look  me  up.     It's  pleasant. 

"  \  chauffeur  who  used  to  work  for  me  in  the  old  days  at 
Universal  dropped  in  to  ha\e  a  chat  with  me  on  the  veranda 
not  long  ago.    He  told  me  that    [  please  tvrn  to  page  105  ] 


THE  NATIONAL  GUIDE  TO   MOTION   PICTURES 


* 


ILLICIT— Warners 


WELL,  here's  another  big  triumph  for  that  perfectly 
grand  actress,  Barbara  Stanwyck,  who  impressed  her- 
self on  film  audiences  in  "Ladies  of  Leisure." 

This  film,  daring  as  youth,  is  amazingly  unconventional 
in  both  treatment  and  theory.  It  tells  the  story  of  a  girl, 
who,  knowing  what  marriage  does  to  people,  does  not  want 
to  wed  her  lover.  But  she  discovers  the  stone  wall  of  con- 
vention too  formidable  a  rival  for  her  freedom  of  thought. 
The  picture  will  make  you  think,  but  more,  you  will  be 
entertained  by  the  naturalness  of  the  dialogue,  the  restraint 
of  the  direction  and  the  perfection  of  Miss  Stanwyck's  per- 
formance. There  could  have  been  a  happier  choice  for  male 
lead  than  James  Rennie,  but  the  rest  of  the  cast,  outstand- 
ing among  them  Charles  Butterworth,  is  splendid. 


* 


THE  BAT  WHISPERS— United  Artists 


SWALLOW  a  sedative,  grasp  your  nerves  firmly  in  both 
hands,  set  your  teeth,  and  go  look  at  this  daddy  of  all 
mystery  thrillers.  It's  got  everything — but  we  mustn't  tell. 
Because  after  you're  all  limp  at  the  finish,  you're  ordered  to 
stay  in  your  seat  and  Chet  Morris  walks  onto  the  screen  in 
nicely  pressed  evening  clothes  and  says  please  not  to  go  out 
and  give  it  all  away.  Roland  West  and  his  cameramen  de- 
serve high  praise  for  direction  and  photography.  Only  in 
certain  much-discussed  foreign  pictures  have  there  been 
camera  feats  of  equal  effectiveness. 

Morris,  in  the  lead,  is  excellent,  but  equally  memorable 
is  the  work  of  a  grand  supporting  cast — particularly  Maude 
Eburne,  Grace  Hampton  and  Gustav  Yon  Seyffertitz. 

Released,  too,  in  wide-screen  size — and  it's  grander  yet. 

50 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

(rbg.  u.  8.  pat.  orr.)    M  J 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


it 


LIGHTNIN'— Fox 


HERE'S  willrogersing  at  its  best.  And  what  more  do 
you  need  to  know? 

"Lightnin'  "  was  the  stage  play  that  made  the  late  Frank 
Bacon  famous.  It  centers,  you  recall,  about  the  Reno 
divorce  mill  and  the  hotel  that's  built  across  the  Nevada- 
California  State  line.  "Lightnin"'  has  been  transferred 
from  the  stage  to  the  screen  without  losing  one  sparkle  of 
its  brilliant  lines— and  to  top  it  off,  they've  added  other 
lines  that  are  every  whit  as  good  as  the  originals. 

Of  course,  the  role  is  a  "natural"  for  Will  Rogers.  As  the 
shiftless,  whimsical,  truth-embroidering  Bill  Jones,  he's  a 
nine-reel  scream.  Call  it  the  best  role  of  his  screen  career, 
and  you'll  not  be  far  wrong. 

The  producers  backed  him  up  with  as  aptly-chosen  a 
cast  as  has  ever  made  a  picture.  Louise  Dresser  as  the 
wife,  and  Joel  McCrea  and  George  Cohan's  daughter, 
Helen,  as  the  love  interest,  are  particularly  good. 

Director  Henry  King  has  done  splendid  things  with  the 
story  and  as  for  backgrounds — well,  it  still  goes  to  show  that 
old  lady  nature  is  still  a  darned  sight  better  scene  painter 
than  the  craftiest  artists  in  Hollywood. 

If  you  have  something  else  to  do,  postpone  it  and  see 
"Lightnin'  "  anyway.    You'll  feel  better  about  everything. 


SAVES    YOUR    PICTURE     TIME    AM)    MONEY 


The  Best  Pictures  «>l  the  Month 

LIGHTNIN'  SIN  TAKES  A  HOLIDAY 

II  i  K  IT  INI    BAT  \\  lllsl'l  RS 

WITHIN  mi'  LAW  NEW  MOON 

TOI/ABLE  DAVID 

The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 

Will  Rogers  in  "I.ightnm'  " 
I. must-  DrClltl  in  "1-igKfnin* " 

Constaiuc  Bennett  in  "Sin  Take-.  .1  Holiday" 

B.irlur.i  Sttnwyck  in  "Illicit" 

Chester  Moms  in  "The  Bat  Whispers" 

Joan  <  r.isvtm.l  in  "Within  the  Law" 

Richard  Cromwell  in  Tol'ablc  David" 

Joan  Peers  m  "Tol  .ihle  David" 

C.  Henry  Gordon  in  "Renegades" 

Warner  Baxter  in  "Renegades" 

Kay  Francis  in  "Passion  Flower" 

Jcancttc  MacDonald  in  "Oh,  Tor  a  Man!" 

Edmund  Lowe  in  "Scotland  Yard" 

Grace  Moore  in  "New  Moon" 

Lawrence  Tibbett  in  "New  Moon' 
Casts  of  all  photopLiys  rwmvtd  will  be  found  on  page  126 


ft 


SIN  TAKES  A  HOLIDAY -Put  he 


THE  story  of  this  picture  is  as  right  as  most  great  stories 
are.  And  the  things  that  make  it  a  grand  film  are  the 
dialogue  that  sparkles  and  crackles  like  a  winter  tire  on  a 
friendly  hearth;  the  acting  which  is  perfect  from  the 
"ole  miss"  of  sophistication,  Constance  Bennett,  to  the 
smallest  bit  player;  and  the  clothes — oh  lady,  what  clothes! 

The  kind  you  see  at  the  Colony  Club  in  New  York  or  the 
Kmbassy  Club  in  Hollywood.  They're  not  the  musical 
comedy  variety,  either.  You  girls  had  better  take  along 
your  note-books.  It's  all  about  a  plain  little  stenographer 
who  marries  her  employer  to  save  him  from  being  involved 
with  the  other  woman.  She  goes  to  Europe  to  forget  or 
something  and  returns,  not  a  sadder  but  a  wiser  girl,  to  win 
back  her  husband  in  name  only. 

Sounds  pretty  terrible,  doesn't  it?  But  hold  on  there, 
don't  judge  until  you  see  it.  It's  smooth,  modern  as  next 
year's  hat.  and  charming.  You  fans  will  cat  it  up.  First 
and  biggest  laurel  wreath  goes  to  Constance  Bennett 
(although  it  won't  be  as  becoming  as  her  own,  smooth 
blonde  marcelL  Rita  La  Roy,  that  constant  other  woman, 
is  one  of  those  girls  you  won't  forget.  And  Kenneth 
MacKenna  and  Basil  Rathbone.  the  first  the  husband,  the 
other  the  lover,  are  both  grand.     Don't  miss  this. 


ft 


it  1 1 m\  nil   i  IH     \t-G-M 


E\  1  R^  BODY   thought   Joan  Crawford  daring  when  she 
insisted  on    Bayard   VeOler's  famous  underworld  drama 
for  her  first  straight  dramatic  role. 

Since  Jane  Cowl  introduced  this  to  the  stage  in  I'M  2  and 
Alice  Joyce  made  the  picture  in  1917,  with  Norma  Tal- 
madge  following  in  1923,  it  was  courageous  of  any  actn 
try  to  make  a  better  one.  But  you  don't  know  our  Joan. 
She  offers  the  surprise  of  your  life  in  the  real  person  she 
makes  of  Mary  Turner,  the  girl  whom  the  law  ruined. 

Another  surprise  is  the  leading  man.  Kent  Douglass, 
who  comes  from  the  stage  and  proves  himself  different  ami 
sincere.  A  great  supporting  cast  includes  Robert  Armstrong. 
Marie  Prevost,  Hale  Hamilton,  John  Miljan  and  others. 
Excellent   dramatic  entertainment. 


ft 


\/u    \u><>\     M-G-M 


THIS  melodious,  dramatic  operetta  brings  one  of  the 
greatest  combinations  in  screen  history  to  the  fore — 
Lawrence  Tibbett  and  Crace  Moore,  both  Metropolitan 
Opera  song-bird.-.  It  was  a  smash  on  the  stage,  and  it  is  a 
beauty  bright  on  the  screen.  It's  now  Russian,  with  Mi-> 
Moore  making  a  gorgeous  princess  and  Tibbett  playing  a 
dashing  lieutenant.  It's  full  of  color  and  drama,  and  you 
may  think  you've  heard  "Lover  Come  Back  to  Me"  sung — 
but  you  haven't  until  you've  heard  this  brilliant  pair. 

There  is  some  new  music  in  the  score,  but  "Stout  Hearted 
Men."  the  baritone's  big  moment,  has  been  retained  for 
Larry.  Music-drama  of  the  first  rate.  As  long  as  companies 
can  make  song  pictures  like  this,  there  will  always  be  room 
for  them  on  anv  screen  in  the  world. 


.-; 


I 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List! 


* 


TOL'ABLE 
DAV  ID- 
Columbia 


RENEGADES 
— Fox 


THIS  is  a  pretty  grand  film,  even  in  the  light  of  its  great 
silent  version  of  a  decade  back.  Young  Richard  Cromwell, 
newcomer,  is  no  Barthelmess  yet,  but  he  has  great  moments  as 
the  beaten  little  hill-billy,  and  a  fine  performance  is  given  by 
Joan  Peers  as  the  girl.  Noah  Beery  and  George  Duryea  also 
shine.  Excellently  directed,  and  a  thriller.  Young  Cromwell's 
a  real  comer. 


WARNER  BAXTER,  the  Foreign  Legion  and  Director 
Victor  Fleming  share  honors  in  this  exciting  story  of 
battle  and  love  on  the  North  African  sands.  Warner's  buddies 
in  the  Legion  are  excellently  played  by  Noah  Beery,  George 
Cooper  and  Gregory  Gave,  and  the  charmer  is  our  friend, 
Myrna  Loy.  But  next  to  Baxter  the  best  acting  is  done  by 
C.  Henry  Gordon,  as  his  captain 


PASSION 

FLOWER— 

M-G-M 


THE  LIFE  OF 
THE  PARTY 
— Warners 


THE  picture  version  of  Kathleen  Norris'  novel  is  not  as 
fundamentally  true  as  the  book,  though  audiences  not 
familiar  with  it  will  like  the  film  tremendously.  Kay  Johnson 
and  Kay  Francis  handle  difficult  roles  well,  but  Charles  Bick- 
ford,  while  physically  like  Dan,  lacks  romantic  appeal.  ZaSu 
Pitts  furnishes  her  usual  unsurpassed  comedy  relief.  Another 
solution  of  the  eternal  triangle. 


WHAT  laughs!  Winnie  Lightner,  Charles  Butterworth 
and  Charles  Judels  simply  pour  out  rough,  loud  fun. 
The  story  is  about  the  adventures  of  two  feminine  song pluggers 
who  make  a  splurge  in  Havana's  speedier  drinking  and  racing 
set.  All-Technicolor,  of  the  better  grade.  Irene  Delroy  and 
Jack  Whiting,  the  love  interest,  mean  little.  But  Winnie  and 
the  boys  are  great. 


THE  WIDOW 

FROM 

CHICAGO— 

First  National 


BIG  MONEY 
—Pathe 


ALICE  WHITE  is  starred  in  this  gangster  picture  and  Neil 
Hamilton  and  Edward  Robinson  have  prominent  roles. 
Story  hasn't  particular  novelty  but  is  well  directed  and  acted. 
Alice's  voice  is  good,  but  Sol  Polito  didn't  photograph  her  as 
beautifully  as  he  knows  how.  Suspense  is  sustained  throughout 
and  action  is  fast  enough  for  fair  entertainment.  Alice's  fans 
will  believe  she  deserves  better  stories. 

52 


EDDIE  QITLLAN'S  youth  and  freshness  (and  is  he  fresh!) 
breeze  through  this  story  of  gamblers  and  gunmen.  Neither 
could  we  imagine  the  fawn-like  Eddie  in  such  company,  but 
you  don't  have  to  believe  it  all  to  injoy  it.  True  to  the  old 
adage,  Eddie's  luck  at  cards  almost  wrecks  his  luck  in  loving 
Miriam  Seegar,  the  blonde  heart  interest.  Plenty  of  action, 
some  thrills,  some  laughs. 


The   First   and    Best   Talkie    Reviews! 


rut:  com  \s 

WD   KELLYS 

l\    \ll<l<   \ 
I  nivertal 


oil.  I  ou    \ 
\l  IN!     /..i 


II    \>>u  think  you  had  fun  with  the  Cohens  ami  the  Kcllys  in 
Paris,  Scotland,  and  elsewhere,  you  have  some  idea  of  the  riot 

in  store  with  these  two  comedians  when  they  hit  the  shores  of 
Africa.  It's  a  scream  from  start  to  finish.  Charlie  Murray 
and  George  Sidney  at  their  best,  with  Vera  Gordon  and  k.ite 
Price  being  devoted  wives  until  they  land  in  a  harem.    Don't 

miss  this. 


ONI",  of  the  month's  brightest,  without  a  doubt — the  story 
of  a  grand  opera  star  who  marries  a   burglar.     A   farcical 
notion  which  •  •    ol  it>  excellent  treatment  In- 

Direct  or  Hamilton  M<  ladden  and  the  merry  acting  of  Jeanette 
M;u  Donald  and  Reginald  Denny,  in  the  leads  V'  t  work  also 
by  Warren  Hymer,  Marjorie  White  and  Alison  Skipworth. 
A  worthy  winner. 


SEA  LEGS— 

Paramount 


111!    SIN 
SHIP     Radio 

Picture* 


IX  spite  of  the  fact  that  Jack  Oakie,  Harry  Green  and  Eugene 
Pallette  are  hurled  into  this  matter  to  dig  laughs,  the  new 
Oakie  starring  picture  doesn't  make  the  grade.  Jack  takes  the 
place  of  a  chap  who  will  inherit  $2,000,000  if  he  serves  in  the 
navy  for  a  year.  That's  enough  plot  and  enough  misunder- 
standing. Lillian  Roth,  her  contract  about  up,  is  buried.  Albert 
Conti  is  also  in  the  troupe. 


LOUIS  WOLHEIM  again  proves  the  difficulty  of  both  acting 
in  and  directing  a  picture.  Louis,  grand  actor  though 
he  is,  doesn't  quite  make  it  go.  He  plays  the  captain  of  a  trad- 
ing ship  who  falls  in  love  with  Mary  Astor,  and  who  can  blame 
him?*  His  attempt  at  a  romantic  role  can  hardly  be  retarded 
as  a  happy  one.  Others  in  the  cast  are  Ian  Keith  and  Hugh 
Herbert.     Doesn't  stand  up. 


WAR 

M  RSE— 
M-G-M 


SCOTl  Wl> 
)   \RI>     Pot 


A  GRAND  story  gone  wrong.  There  was  a  real  chance  to 
make  this  the  thrilling  story  of  the  devoted  nurses'  part 
in  the  world  war,  but  this  picture  is,  bv  turns,  gruesome  and 
silly.  June  Walker  (stage),  ZaSu  Pitts,  Marie  Prevost,  Robert 
Montgomery,  Robert  Ames  and  Helen  Jerome  Eddy  do  varying 
work  in  the  leads,  and  Anita  Page  comes  to  another  tragic 
end.    A  sad  disappointment,  this  picture. 


THERE  isn't  a  more  consistently  good  actor  in  pictures 
than  Edmund  Lowe,  and  Eddie  proves  it  again  in  this 
rattling  good  story  of  crime  and  its  detection.  Lowe  doubles 
as  an  escaped  crook  and  as  the  titled  but  profligate  spouse  of 
little  Joan  Bennett.  Smartly  directed  by  William  K.  Howard, 
this  film  carries  a  wallop,  and  is  tine  talkie  entertainment. 
I  Additional  reviews  on  page  '.    - 


c    /hey  Hitch  Their 


Sue  Carol  and  her 
devoted  secretary, 
Alice  Scannell.  It 
was  Alice  who  ad- 
vised Sue  to  an- 
nounce her  marriage 
to  Nick  Stuart  and 
end  the  snooping  by 
newspapermen 


M 


EVERYONE  has  a  balance-wheel.  If  you'll  hand 
me  your  watch  a  second  I'll  show  you.  You 
won't?  But  I  can't  show  you  on  mine  because 
it's  in  hock.  Go  ahead  and  hand  me  your  watch. 
I'll  stand  right  here. 

Now,  if  you  look  closely,  you'll  see  two  tiny  wheels. 
One  is  a  driving  wheel.  The  other  acts  as  a  balance  or 
check  upon  it.  If  the  drive-wheel  races  ahead  too  fast 
or  becomes  too  slow,  the  balance-wheel  slows  or  speeds 
it  to  the  correct  tempo. 

Which  is  enough  natural  history  for  one  day.  Just 
remember  (and  I  promise  this  is  all)  that  the  balance- 
wheel  acts  as  a  governor  or  corrective.    It  regulates. 

These  Hollywood  people,  whom  we  keep  telling  you 
are  no  different  from  anyone  else,  also  have  their  balance- 
wheels.  Alice  White,  for  instance,  has  her  grandmother,  a 
Mrs.  Alexander.  Now  Alice,  who  most  often  portrays  the 
flighty,  quick-tempered  American  girl,  is  more  or  less  that  way 
in  real  life.  She's  thoroughly  alive  and  kicking.  She  has 
thousands  of  what  she  considers  swell  ideas  which,  placed  in 
the  Frigidaire  a  while,  turn  out  to  be  not  so  hot  after  all.  Her 
grandmother  is,  so  to  speak,  her  Frigidaire.    It  works  like  this. 

Not  so  long  ago  someone  printed  a  string  of  girls'  pictures 
over  the  caption:  "The  Six  Most  Beautiful  Girls  in  Hollywood." 
Alice's  was  among  them  and  she  thought  it  was  just  dandy. 
The  world,  she  reflected,  had  at  last  got  wise  to  itself.  So 
thinking,  she  rushed  over  to  grandma  with  the  magazine  to 
give  her  a  treat.  She  found  Grandma  Alexander  at  her 
knitting. 

"  Look ! "  burst  our  Alice,  holding  up  the  sheet.  "  Now  maybe 
you'll  believe  I'm  good! "  The  old  lady  put  down  an  unfinished 
sock  and  adjusted  her  spectacles.  "Right  pretty  girls,"  she 
finally  said,  "but  who's  that  one  in  the  corner?" 

"That,"  said  Alice,  "is  a  Miss  Alice  White.  Maybe  you've 
heard  of  her."  Chuckling,  grandma  picked  up  the  sock. 
"These  modern  reporters,"  she  cackled,  "don't  care  what  they 
print,  do  they?"  She  then  told  Alice  a  few  things,  among 
which  was  that  she  should  leave  this  beautiful  stuff  to  girls  like 
Billie  Dove  and  Corinne  Griffith,  who  are  good  looking  without 
benefit  of  Max  Factor,  and  that  she,  Alice,  should  concentrate 
on  the  qualities  God  gave  her. 

"You're  cute,  Alice,"  she  said,  "and  vivacious  and  lovable. 

64 


George  Jenner, 
George  Arliss'  "gen- 
tleman's  gentle- 
man." Jenner  it  is 
who  looks  out  for  the 
frail  star.  He's  par- 
ticularly careful  in 
the  matter  of  drafts 


£ 


^> 


But  beautiful?  "  She  sighed.   "  And  the  doctor,"  she  concluded, 
"said  I  shouldn't  laugh,  too.    Hurts  my  side." 

The  same  thing  happened  when  she  took  her  new  car  around 
to  grandma,  with  the  hope  of  getting  a  batch  of  Ohs!  and  Ahs! 
Instead,  she  got  a  verbal  whipping.  Grasping  her  firmly  by 
the  hand,  Mrs.  Alexander  took  her  around  back  and  showed 
her  an  old  battered  Dodge  that  her  grandfather,  who  has  so 
much  dough  it  gets  in  his  hair,  is  glad  to  drive.  "You'll  ride 
in  one  like  this  some  day  and  like  it,"  she  chirped,  "if  you 
don't  learn  to  save  your  money."  It  took.  Today  Alice  has 
gone  four  per  cent. 

SUE  CAROL  has  a  balance-wheel  in  the  person  of  one  Alice 
Scannell,  whom  she  engaged  as  secretary,  but  who  turned  out 
to  be  the  whole  works.  This  Miss  Scannell  seems  to  know  a 
few  things.  She  picks  out  Sue's  clothes  and  buys  the  tricky 
furnishings  for  her  house  that  are  so  easy  to  go  wrong  on.  She 
also  chooses  the  pictures  of  Sue  that  are  sent  to  her  fans  and 
stands  ready  at  all  times  with  high-powered  advice.  One  trick 
alone  of  hers  would  make  her  worth  the  money.  To  this  effect: 
the  secret  marriage  of  Sue  and  Nick  began  playing  tricks  on 
them. 

One  reporter  found  Nick's  pajamas  in  Sue's  closet.  Another 
was  present  when  a  lusty-lunged  laundryman  announced  for 
all  to  hear:  "Mr.  Stuart's  laundry!"'  You  know  reporters  (if 
you'll  admit  it)  and  what  these  jewels  meant  to  them.  Things 
began  to  be  whispered.  It  looked  bad  for  Nick  and  Sue  until 
Alice,  with  that  old  level  head,  came  to  the  rescue.  "Announce 


w 


agons  to 


s 


tars 


—  and  then  they  put  on  the  brakes!     Hollywood's 

full  of  men  and  wome n  w ho  keep  the  players 

from   kicking  over  the  traces 


By 
Robert  Fouler 


your  marriage,"  she  begged,  "and  save 
your   reputations."      Which   is  exactly 
v.  liat  they  did. 
Besides  sisters  and  managers  and  pro- 

Fessiona]  soothers  of  one  kind  or  another, 
Richard  1  >ix  has  an  out  and  out  balance- 
wheel  in  the  person  of  Gunboat  Smith, 
one  time  world's  champion  pug.  Now 
Gunner's  influence  on  Richard  is  in- 
sidious and  deadly.    That  is,  it  works. 

Many  \e.ir.-~  ago  (and  this  tale  didn't 
come  out  of  a  publicist's  scrapbook) 
Richard  saw  Gunner  scrap  in  New  York. 
He  was  drawn  to  him.  There  was  a 
gameness  about  him  that  Dix  liked. 
Half-way  out  the  exit  Rates  he  was  ac- 
d  by  Smith.  "Ain't  you  Richard 
Dix?"  the  Gunner  is  reported  to  have 
said.  Dix  supposed  he  was.  "Well," 
Gunner  went  on,  "you  look  lousy  in 
your  tight  sequent  i 

\>>w  that's  pretty  bald  stuff.  Coming 
from  some  other  man  on  some  other 
occasion,  it  might  have  been  cause  for 
battle.     (At  least  word  battle,  because 

and  after  all,  this  was  the  Gunboat  himself.1)  But  it  happened 
to  work  the  other  way  on  Dix.  Fact  is,  Richard  had  never 
been  overly  satisfied  with  the  way  his  movie  rights  looked. 
They  were  too — too  pretty!  So  he  had  Gunner  show  him  how- 
to  right. 

And  before  he  was  through,  this  same  Gunner  showed  him 
quite  a  lot  about  acting — and  living!  They  became  close  friends 


Al  Jolson  owns  the  car,  but  Jim  Donnelly  drives  it — and  acts 
as  guide,  guardian  and  friend  to  the  famous  mammy  singer 


Alice  White  and  Grandma.    It's  Grandma  Alexander  who  tends  to  and 
tones  down  Alice  when  the  flapper  gets  too  uppity 


and  today,  although  separated  by  a  continent,  the  two  are  very 
intimate.  "Old  Gunner,''  Dix  told  me.  "is  the  smartest  man 
I  know." 

Jimmie  Donnelly  is  famous  among  show  people,  but  perhaps 
you  have  never  heard  of  him.  Jimmie  is  Al  Jolson's  driver — 
pardon  me  Al's  balance-wheel.  Their  association  is  unique 
enough  for  a  paragraph  or  two.  I. ike  this:  Mr.  Donnelly,  a 
brute  of  a  man.  has  steered  Al  (both  in  and  out  of  his  three 
Mercedes  Benz  cars)  for  the  past  twenty  years.  When  Jolson 
took  on  his  latest  wife.  Ruby  Keeler.  he  introduced  Jimm: 
her  as  "my  friend,  not  my  driver."  More,  he  cautioned  her 
never  to  get  high-hat  with  Jimmie  or  ask  anything  of  him  that 
she  wouldn't  gladly  do  herself. 

AL  has  made  Jimmie  a  rich  man.  Or  at  least  Jimmie  has  be- 
come rich  from  the  start  Al  gave  him.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
he's  done  far  better  in  financial  matters  than  Al.  His  chief  fight 
with  Jolson  is  over  the  stock  market  and  things  financial.  It 
was  Jimmie.  for  instance,  who  urged  Al  to  take  Warner 
Brothers'  stock  in  payment  for  his  "Jazz  Singer."  Al  demanded 
cash,  however,  and  as  a  result  is  still  moaning  over  his  mistake. 
Today  he  treats  Jimmie's  advice  with  more  (much  DD 
respect. 

Then  there's  George  Arliss  and  his  man's  man:  George 
Jenner.  Jcnner,  powerful,  decisive.  all-British,  has  served  as 
Arliss'  valet  for  over  these  past  twenty  years.  But  here  again, 
he  goes  beyond  the  limits  of  his  job.  He,  too,  is  a  balance- 
wheel.  Among  other  things,  he  is  agonizingly  concerned  over 
Arliss'  health.  In  fact.  Jenner  believes  Mr.  Arliss  should  never 
have  taken  up  this  movie  busi-  [  please  ti  rx  i  117] 


Here  Are  $5,000 


The    Prize   W  inners 


„.     -2- 


First  Prize  $1,000 — 

"Movie  Studio" 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  H.  L 

Franklin 

112  Van  Dusen  Street 

Newark,  New  York 

Second  Prize  $750 — 

"Hall  of  Fame" 

Robert  L.  Holmes 

221  South  Harvey  Ave. 

Oak  Park,  111. 

Third  Prize  $500 — 

"Book  of  Stars" 

Mrs.  V.  R.  Haney 

2326  Highland  Ave. 

Birmingham,  Ala. 

Fourth  Prize  $300 — 

"Stars'  Dressing 
Bungalows" 

Charles  Collins 
14851  Muirland 
Detroit,  Mich. 

Fifth  Prize  $100 — 

"Framed  Portraits" 

Mrs.  Mamie  Cardarel 

66  South  Myrtle  St. 

Vineland,  N.  J. 

I  ADDITIONAL  prize  winners  on  page   106] 


WITH  the  appearance  of  this  issue  of  PHOTOPLAY, 
seventy  persons — winners  in  the  seventh  annual 
Cut  Picture  Puzzle  Contest — will  each  receive  a 
check. 
The  fortunate  seventy  are  scattered  all  the  way  from  Mas- 
sachusetts to  California;  from  Washington  to  Alabama.  Resi- 
dents of  every  corner  of  the  Union  entered  their  solutions, 
and  the  lucky  list  will  be  found  to  represent  over  half  the  states. 
Canada  and  Mexico  submitted  a  greater  number  of  entries 
than  ever  before,  and  over-seas  nations  and  colonies  seemed 

56 


eager  to  surpass  the  record  of  these  near  neighbors.  More  than 
one  request  that  the  closing  date  of  the  Contest  be  extended, 
because  of  distance,  had  to  be  regretfully  denied. 

In  a  general  way,  1930's  widespread  interest  was  merely  a 
repetition  of  that  of  other  years,  but  never  before  had  so  many 
solutions  been  submitted  from  abroad.  The  number  oi 
American  entries  was  also  greatly  increased. 

Like  motion  pictures  themselves,  this  annual  Photoplay 
feature  seems  to  have  assumed  international  importance. 

SOME  of  the  entrants  shaped  their  ideas  with  theaters, 
studios,  or  other  symbols  of  the  motion  picture  industry,  as 
settings.  Others  assembled  the  portraits  in  constellations  and 
comets  against  a  background  of  sky. 

Still  others  made  up  books — some  plain,  some  ornate,  often 
with  verse  or  drawings  added.  Reproductions  of  plants  set 
forth  in  the  form  of  gardens,  or  trellises,  or  as  bouquets,  or  in 
pots — the  portraits  of  the  stars  representing  the  flowers — gave 
a  touch  of  another  sort  to  the  colorful  exhibit. 

Here  an  oil  well  shot  up  a  galaxy  of  faces,  there  a  merry-go- 
round  spun  a  circle  of  dolls.  Steamboats,  automobiles,  air- 
planes, dirigibles,  giant  butterflies,  a  vast  pink  seashell  built 
with  infinite  pains  from  thousands  of  smaller  shells,  windmills, 
make-up  boxes,  jewelry,  fans,  screens,  footballs,  monster  dice, 
a  pee  wee  golf  course,  were  a  few  of  the  forms  the  entries  took. 

For  the  first  time  in  any  of  these  contests,  the  influence  of  the 
talkies  began  to  appear.  Small  phonographs  were  submitted, 
with  records  that  spoke  or  sang,  each  record  having  some  bear- 
ing on  one  of  the  stars  represented  in  the  Contest. 

THE  entire  display  was  a  remarkable  exhibit  not  only  of  the 
art  of  the  motion  picture,  but  of  the  field  of  general  com- 
merce, industry  and  science,  as  well.  Sky,  sea  and  land  had  been 
scoured  to  bring  into  service  some  novelty  or  variety  of  effective 
presentation  of  the  cut  puzzle  pictures. 

A  very  considerable  portion  of  the  entries  had  no  chance  at 
a  prize,  for,  according  to  the  published  rules  of  this,  as  of  all 
previous  Cut  Picture  Contests,  accuracy  in  assembling  and 
identifying  the  pictures  and  neatness  in  the  methods  of  sub- 
mitting the  entries  were  of  prime  importance. 

A  staff  experienced  in  work  of  this  kind  made  a  preliminary 
examination  of  every  solution  submitted,  preparatory  to  arrang- 
ing and  classifying  for  the  later  inspection  and  decision  of  the 
judges. 

This  staff  was  on  the  lookout  for  errors.  Any  picture  that 
was  incorrectly  assembled  or  wrongly  named  automatically 
barred  the  entry  from  further  consideration. 

Many   mistakes  were  discovered  in  the  assembling  of  the 


Mr.   and   Mrs.   Howard   L.   Franklin  put 
their  heads  together  and  created  this  novel 
studio  scene,  which  takes  the  major  prize 
of  the  Contest,  $1,000 


Contest  Winners 


PUOTOdllY'l    HAH.    .  • 


'  m  fi * 


c 


LLLLLLLmULLLU 


A  "Hall  of  Fame"  with  the  portraits  made  to  fit  inside,  draws  second 
prize  of  $750  for  Robert  L.  Holmes 


scrambled  parts,  and  a  greater  number  in  the  naming,  and  still 
more  in  the  spelling  of  the  names  of  the  stars. 

Charles  Rogers  seemed  to  be  the  chief  stumbling  block,  so  far 
as  proper  identification  was  concerned.  For  some  reason  or 
other  he  was  credited  with  being  anyone  from  Grant  Withers  to 
Reginald  Denny. 

Yet,  as  one  of  the  successful  contestants  said  in  a  letter: 
'Through  the  aid  of  PHOTOPLAY,  of  which  I  have  a  complete 
file  since  the  January,  1°27,  issue,  the  naming  of  the  stars  was 
an  easy  matter  and  a  very  pleasant  diversion." 


This  book  of  stars  proved  to  be  worth 

$500  to  Mrs.  V.  R.  Haney.     It  was 

awarded  third  prize 


MWV  came  to  grief  in  their  spelling  of  Ramon  N'ovarro's 
n  line.  Again  and  again  it  was  found  that  though  the  sec- 
tions of  the  thirty-two  faces  of  the  puzzle  had  been  correctly  as- 
sembled, the  entry  had  to  be  discarded  because  of  a  mistake  in 
a  single  letter. 

The  error  consisted  in  spelling  the  first  syllable  of  Xovarro 
with  "a"  instead  of  with  "o  " 

Often  also,  Corinne  Griffith's  first  name  was  credited  with 
one  "r-"  too  many,  thus  making  it  read  "Corrinnc,"  and  an 
extra  "r"  in  Sue  Carol's  name  was  the  cause,  likewise,  of  many 
a  fatality. 

Nothing— neither  cleverness  of  arrangement  nor  neatness  of 
assembling     could  offset  these  mistakes.    There  were  too  many 


with  entirely  correct  solutions  to  make  it  possible  to  give  them 
a  chance. 

The  mentioning  of  these  mistakes  may  be  helpful  to  all  in 
submitting  entries  in  future  cut  picture  puzzles.  The  spelling 
of  every  name  and  the  identity  of  every  face  can  always  be 
verified  by  consulting  a  file  of  PHOTOPLAY  Magazine. 

Many  readers  of  Photoplay  Magazine  apparently  look  for- 
ward to  this  annual  Contest.  Letters  accompanying  many  of 
the  entries  bear  out  that  statement.  A  lot  of  those  who  fail  to 
win  one  year  come  back  the  next.  There  are  among  those 
taking  top  prizes  in  the  present  list  of  winners  the  names  of  one 
or  more  who  have  striven  unsuccessfully  in  previous  years, 
to  triumph  now. 

One  must  conclude  from  the  fertility  of  imagination  exhibited 


Charles  Collins  is  paid  $300 

— fourth    prize— for    putting 

the  stars  in  these  comfortable 

dressing  bungalows 


Around  their  bright  symbol, 
Mrs.  Mamie  Cardarel  clus- 
ters the  stars  represented  in 
the  Contest  and  wins  fifth 
prize,  $200 


SI 


Seventy  lucky  ones  will  divide  Cut  Puzzle  Prizes  for  Christmas 


in  finding  striking  methods  to  present  solutions  that  motion 
pictures  act  as  a  stimulus  to  the  creative  faculty.  The  origi- 
nality and  skill  displayed  were  a  never-ending  source  of  wonder 
and  admiration  to  the  Contest  judges  and  the  few  others  who 
were  permitted  to  see  the  remarkable  display. 

What  the  winners  of  the  five  capital  prizes  have  to  say  is  of 
considerable  interest. 

Till:  first  prize  of  $1,000  goes  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Howard  L. 
Franklin,  of  Newark,  New  York,  who  collaborated  in  pre- 
paring their  entry — a  representation  of  a  movie  studio.  Mrs. 
Franklin  writes: 

"We  have  been  married  four  years  and  a  half  and  have  a 
three-year-old  son.  We  have  cherished  the  idea  of  a  home  of 
our  own  since  our  marriage,  but  the  necessities  seem  always  to 
take  all  the  cash  on  hand. 

"With  the  possibility  of  starting  a  'nest  egg'  for  that  'home,' 
and  the  future  education  of  our  boy,  we  shall  have  ample  use  for 
any  of  the  prize  money. 

"This  is  our  third  attempt  at  your  contests,  and  we  are  both 
convinced  now  that  'Patience  has  its  own  rewards'  and  firm 
believers  in  the  old  axiom,  'If  at  first  you  don't  succeed,  try, 
try  again!'  " 

THE  second  prize  of  $750  was  won  by  Robert  L.  Holmes,  of 
Oak  Park,  Illinois,  for  his  entry  the  "Hall  of  Fame."  Mr. 
Holmes  states  that  for  several  years  he  has  been  a  teacher  of 
manual  training. 

"In  addition  to  my  school  duties,"  he  says,  "I  find  time  to 
indulge  in  a  little  golf  and,  when  possible,  a  hunting  or  fishing 
trip. 

"More  frequently  it  is  to  the  motion  picture  I  look  for 
relaxation. 

"Prize  money  would  find  many  avenues  of  escape  awaiting 
it.  Depending  upon  the  sum,  of  course,  it  probably  would 
provide  a  trip  to  Canada  next  spring  for  some  of  those  familiar 
trout  which  teem  in  the  swift,  cold  waters  of  Ontario.  The 
entire  family  might  view  the  Rocky  Mountains  next  sum- 
mer or  spend  a  happy  vacation  in  camp  on  some  Wiscon- 
sin lake. 

"In  general,  it  would  be  safe  to  say  that  prize  money  would 
enable  the  Holmeses  to  test  the  value  of  the  slogan,  '  See 
America  First.'  " 


THE  third  prize  of  $500  was  captured  by  Mrs.  Y.  K.  Haney, 
of  Birmingham,  Alabama,  for  her  "Book  of  Stars." 

Mrs.  Haney  writes: 

"The  possibility  of  such  good  fortune  as  to  win  one  of  the 
capital  prizes  in  Photoplay's  Cut  Picture  Puzzle  Contest 
brings  great  happiness  to  me. 

"First,  the  holiday  season  is  now  approaching  and  the  spirit 
of  Christmas  and  giving  prevails. 

"This  would  enable  me  to  bring  cheer  and  happiness  to 
others. 

"Second,  this  would  aid  me  to  accomplish  a  long  dreamed  of 
ambition — that  is,  to  return  to  college  and  complete  my  educa- 
tion in  art. 

"This,  added  to  many  months  of  savings,  enables  me  to  see 
in  the  near  future  the  realization  of  my  ambition." 

CHARLES  COLLINS,  of  Detroit,  Michigan,  is  awarded  tht 
fourth  prize  of  $300  for  his  "Stars'  Dressing  Bungalows." 
Mr.  Collins  was  born  in  1910  and,  therefore,  is  but  twenty  years 
of  age. 

"  What  am  I  going  to  do,"  he  asks,  "if  my  entry  is  worthy  of 
a  prize?" 

"I  am  truly  quite  bewildered  about  it!  Times  have  been 
quite  hard,  and  though  our  family  cannot  complain,  there  cer- 
tainly are  many  places  for  money.  For  one  thing,  I  am  going 
to  give  Mother  and  Father  a  holiday.  They  haven't  had  one  in 
some  time  .  .  .  ten  years,  I  think.  And,  then,  I  could  go  back 
to  art  school.  I  have  been  unable,  so  far  this  year,  because  of 
the  times. 

"I  might  go  to  college.  It  would  mean  I  could  take  up  some 
of  the  courses  that  I  want  to  take  on  stagework,  plays  and 
French.  I  could  also  take  some  more  piano  lessons.  (I  am 
supposed  to  be  good  at  it.)" 

MRS.   MAMIE   CARDAREL,  of  Vineland,   New  Jersey, 
receives  the  fifth  prize  of  $200  for  her  entry  in  the  form 
of  framed  portraits. 

Mrs.  Cardarel,  with  the  instincts  of  a  mother,  considers  how 
she  may  benefit  her  two  children,  aged  three  and  eight,  re- 
spectively, with  this  money. 

"I  would,"  she  says,  "put  this  money  toward  giving  my 
children  a  musical  education,        [  please  turn  to  page  106  ] 


Here  are  shown  assembled  the  fifty  and  twenty-five  dollar  prize  winning 

entries.    Some  of  the  little  fellows  may  be  crowded  a  bit,  but  if  you  look 

sharply  you  can  find  them  all 


58 


A  G 


reat 


T, 


rouper 


Comes  to  Ton 


wn 


THE  fire,  the  beauty,  the 
oi  living  is  still  a 
part  of  Marjorie 
Rambeau. 

Marjorie    Rambeau,   one  of 

the   most   glamorous  actn 

who  ever  stepped  before  Foot- 
lights,  whoso   vividness  shot 

Roman  candle-like  into  tin- 
dark  sky  of  the  theatrical  pro- 
fession only  to  be  clouded  by 
hitter  scandal,  is  in  Hollywood. 
They  said  ah,  what  didn't 
they  say  about  Marjorie  Ram- 
beaul  A  certain  strange  qual- 
ity that  bespeaks  the  soul  of 
an  artist  surrounded  her  like 
a  sable  eoat.  During  her  first 
days  on  Broadway  sin-  was 
dynamite.  When  she  appeared 

before  an  audience  she  touched 
it  like  an  electric  shock.  When 
she  walked  upon  the  stage  she 
glowed  with  an  inner  fire. 
Lessei  actors,  knowing  the 
power  of  her  art,  were  afraid 
to  appear  in  the  same  cast 
with  her.  She  was  known  as 
•The  Yellow  Peril." 

No  woman,  so  dominant,  so 
vital,  so  truly  feminine,  could 
have  dodged  the  darts  of 
sip.  So  they  said  that  un- 
happy habits  had  ruined  many 
a  contract  for  her.  There  was 
that  fatal  night  when  the  cur- 
tain was  rung  down  at  the 
opening  performance  of  "The 
Road  Together." 

THERE  were  alienation  of 
affection  suits.  She  spent 
money|as  she  spent  her  energies. 
Her  brilliance  made  the  tongues 
wag.  She  was,  somehow,  des- 
tined for  it,  as  was  Jeanne 
Eagels. 

If  you  look  back  over  her 
life  you  will  realize  the  in- 
evitable. For  she  was  plunged, 
as  a  child,  into  an  experience 
so  stirring,  so  active,  that  any- 
thing she  did  later  could  but 
pale  into  insignificance. 

In  1898  a  golden  cloud  fell 
across  the  world.  Thousands 
of  men  and  women  began  the 
trek  to  Alaska  and  along  with 

them  went  little  Marjorie,  her  mother,  who  had  just  com- 
pleted a  medical  course  and  had  conceived  the  idea  of  opening 
a  hospital  in  Nome,  and  her  grandmother.  The  hospital  was 
not  such  a  success.  Those  hardy  pioneers  had  no  time  for 
illness.  It  was  effeminate  to  go  to  a  hospital.  You  worked 
for  your  gold.     You  stopped  only  for  death. 

But  Marjorie  found  ways  of  occupying  herself.     Her  hair 
was  cut  short,  she  wore  box's  clothes  and  no  one  suspected 


By 
E I  a  i  )i  c 

O  g  (/  c  ti 


Marjorie  Rambeau,  unbowed 
by  time  and  the  tongue  of 
scandal,  begins  a  new  and 
vivid   life    in    the   studios 


that  she  was  a  little  girl.    She 
I    to    appear    in    gathering 
pl.o  e>    with    her    small    ba 
and    croon    a    tune    for 
miners.     \\  hen  it  was  finished 
she   would    throw    her  cap  on 
the  tloor  ami  if  they  liked  the 
song    anil    wanted    more    tin- 
men WOtlld  fling  gold  into  the 
cap.      Those    were    protli. 
days.     The    pockets  oi 
Marjorie's  trousers  bulged. 

How  could  she  be  content, 
after  that,  with  a  humdrum 
life? 

It  was  to  the  theater  and 
its  excitement  that  she  turned 
next. 

THEY  had  thought  her  a 
little  boy  in  Alaska,  but  in 
Portland  where  she  began  her 
theatrical  career  they  believed 
her  a  woman  grown.  She  was 
twelve  years  old  when  she 
played  the  role  of  L<uniUc. 
Buxom,  beautiful,  in  a  gown 
which  now  is  almost  too  small 
for  her,  she  died  nightly  for 
love. 

The  magic  of  her  art  next 
found  a  place  in  stock  com- 
panies and  then  on  Broadway. 
Long  runs  in  "1  :h," 

"Antonia."  "Cheating  Cheat- 
ers" and  many,  many  others 
made  Marjorie  Rambeau  loved 
and  feared.  It  was  she  who, 
at  last,  introduced  the  idea  of 
"guest  star"  in  stock  com- 
panies. She  played  in  the 
larger  Middle-Western  cities 
and  in  the  West  and  her  fame 
spread  throughout  the  United 
States. 

Everything  that  she  touched 
became  alive.  Everything  that 
she  did  was  "good  copy"  for 
the  newspapers.  Her  name  was 

flung  across  the  front  pages  of  the  world. 

1  now   she  has  come  to  Hollywood.     You  would  think, 

perhaps,  that  such  a  woman  would  have  spent  herself.     You 

would  imagine  that  she  has  given  all  she  has  to  give.     But 

you  would  be  mistaken. 

Marjorie  Rambeau,  in  her  forties,  is  as  vital  and  alive  as 

she  was  when  she  was  Broadway's  "Yellow  Peril." 

Her  eyes  sparkle.     Her  face  [please  tcrn  to  pagi    120  ] 

■ 


J7|/£ary  Pickford 


D 


enies 


All! 


MARY  PICKFORD  denies  all!       By     KCtttlCrlTlC     Albert      assembled  in  the  projection  room  she 

She  denies  that  she  will  give  knew  that  she  had  been  right.    It  didn't 

up  her  screen  career.  have  the  stuff.    "Secrets"  wasn't  there. 

Slu-  denies  that  she  will  remain  ■^■^^■■lUWMHIHIH          She  dismissed  cast  and  director.     She  had 

the  artist  and  stop  producing.  ^^^^^^1                            tnc  6owns  returned  to  the  wardrobe.     In 

She  denies  that  she  is  going  on  the  stage.  By  .augfc&y^^B                       nice  new  tins,  "Secrets"  reposed  on  a  shelf. 

She  denies  that  there  is  any  thought  of  Jjf*  Jjfjk  Ha        tB                        Mary  was  producing  then.     It  was  her 

a    separation    between    her    and    Douglas  F    ^.jB          Iw                            money.     She  said,  later,  that  because  she 

Fairbanks.  Br  4mC^WB                                      had   been  called  such  a  shrewd  and  cal- 

She  denies,  and  doggone  vehemently  too,  .Sfl              ^^PBt    V                culating   woman   she  was  truly  ashamed 

that  she  is  a  good  business  woman.    Which  mt  M     \  "tOt-       "wSkW/J                   to    a<'m't    now    much    money    she    threw 

is,  perhaps,  the  most  startling  denial  of  all.  Efr  *M                           pf  ij                 away  when  she  called  off  production. 

For  years  Mary  has  been  called  one  of  If  m  a 
America's  best  business  women.  Mary  W0  *jmm  ^^  F.  'THE  picture  could  have  been  finished. 
has  been  pictured  as  a  shrewd,  calculating  w4  a  J5&L  It  would  have  made  money — as  all  Pick- 
producer  who  divided  her  time  between  It  I  ^k  .^2  ford's  pictures  have  done — or,  at  least,  it 
playing  emotional  scenes  and  paying  off  I^HN  ^  would  not  have  lost  money.  But  when  she 
electricians,  conferring  with  writers,  in-  f^U  W itmW  B  found  that  something  was  lacking,  that  it 
terviewing  prospective  actors  for  casts.  j^Oj                     I  £l                              would  not  be  a  good  picture,  she  chose  to 

Her  energy  has  been  and  always  will  be  M            fc*^B                                     lose  hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars  rather 

a  mighty  force  with  which  to  cope  and  she  than  let  the  film  be  released. 


has  made  her  tremendous  for- 
tune not  alone  because  of  her 
great  popularity  (others  have 
been  popular  and  are  no  longer 
so)  but  because  she  has  had 
such  a  heavy  hand  in  the  pro- 
ducing of  her  films.  She  is 
always  the  last  word,  and  no 
detail  is  too  small  for  her  con- 
sideration. 

A  few  months  ago  she  began 
work  on  the  screen  version  of 
"Secrets,"  and,  with  the  pic- 
ture a  quarter  finished,  startled 
the  entire  industry  by  making 

an  unheard  of  gesture.  Rumors  fluttered  up  and  down  the 
boulevard  like  social  climbers  at  a  Junior  League  tea.  You 
were  told  that  Mary  Pickford  had  seen  the  assembled  material, 
discovered  that  her  eyes  were  not  as  bright  as  of  yore  and 
had  run  from  the  projection  room,  screaming. 

You  were  led  to  believe  that  Mickey  Neilan,  the  director, 
had  said  harsh  words  to  Mary  on  the  set,  and  both  star  and 
director  had  flown  into  hysterics.  It  was  said  that  Mary 
had  suddenly  become  tired  of  her  empty  fame  and  had  made 
this  her  last  fling  before  her  retirement. 

AND  the  colony  felt  it  strange  that,  immediately  "Secrets" 
was  shelved,  Mary  stopped  producing  and  began  working 
in  "Kiki"  simply  as  a  salaried  star. 

The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  none  of  the  rumors  concerned 
with  "Secrets"  was  true.  Mary  felt,  with  that  instinct  she's 
been  acquiring  since  the  time  when  as  a  little  girl  with  curls 
she  made  her  first  test  for  Griffith,  that  something  was  wrong 
with  "Secrets."  Were  you  to  glance  at  the  play  you'd  have 
been  sure  it  was  a  perfect  Pickford  vehicle.  Yet,  as  she 
worked,  Mary  realized  that  the  spirit  of  the  thing  had  been 
missed,  some  vague,  remote  motive  was  lacking,  something 
intangible  that  made  it  all  seem  most  unimportant. 

She  worked  on  hoping  it  would  turn  out  better  and  that  she 
was  wrong  in  this  undefined  feeling.     But  when  she  saw  it 


America's  Ex-Sweetheart 
smacks  down  reports  that 
she's  to  divorce  Doug, 
retire,  or  go  on  the  stage 


That  is  not  the  deed  of  a 
good  business  woman.  That 
is  the  gesture  of  the  temper- 
amental artist. 

"The  trouble  with  me," 
Mary  said,  "is  that  I'm  just 
a  gentle  Julia.  I  always  post- 
pone telling  the  truth  because 
I  hate  to  hurt  people's  feelings. 
That  is  not  good  business.  I 
knew  'Secrets'  was  wrong,  yet 
I  held  on  too  long.  A  director, 
marvelous  as  he  might  be,  can 
be  miscast  exactly  as  a  good 
actor  can  be.  That  is  no  dis- 
grace. But  perhaps  I've  changed  now.  I  believe  I've  murdered 
gentle  Julia. 

"I've  never  bothered  for  a  second  about  the  cost  of  any- 
thing. Upon  camera  work  alone  I've  spent  millions  of  dollars. 
I  think  now  I've  carried  it  too  far.  Cameras  are  a  part,  a 
big  part,  but  they're  far  from  being  the  whole  thing.  I've 
often  sacrificed  good  acting  to  a  camera  angle.  That  is  neither 
good  business  nor  good  sense. 

"The  wardrobe  people  have  come  to  me  and  showed  me 
stuffs  for  costumes.  Perhaps  one,  that  looked  almost  as  well, 
was  half  as  cheap  as  another.  I've  invariably  said,  'Take  the 
best.' 

"Although  on  'Kiki'  I'm  simply  a  salaried  artist  I  still 
have  my  own  money  in  the  production,  but  not  so  much. 
However  the  next  picture  I  make  will  put  me  back  on  the  old 
system.  I  take  a  tremendous  pride  in  producing.  That  I 
won't  give  up. 

""V'OU  see,  one  can't  tell  where  acting  leaves  off  and  story 
1  begins.     It  is  all  a  part  of  a  whole.     The  mechanics  of 

pictures  are  all  wrapped  about  the  art  of  them.    That's  why 

I  must  produce.  That's  why  I  11  always  have  final  word  on  story 

and  cast  and  costumes  and  camera." 

It  has  been  pretty  definitely  shown  that  Douglas  Fairbanks 

has  not  an  overwhelming  interest  Iplease  turn  to  page  116] 


(  i 


I'm    a   terrible    business    woman!"    says    our    Mary 


GO 


♦ 


W'Jt* 


OUR  Mary  today — still  young,  still  pretty,  still  petite,  and  more  devoted  to 
pictures  than  ever  before.  Soon  her  "Kikf  *  will  kick  up  in  talkie  form — and 
Mary  Pickford  has  studied  French  accent  with  Prof.  Dr.  Fifi  Dorsay.  In  the 
irticle  on  the  opposite  page  you  will  find  some  startling  declarations,  denials  and 
affirmations  coaxed  from  the  star's  own  ruby  lips 


Fresh  from  Filmania — 
modish  hints  on  dress 
for  golden-haired  girls 
and  those  of  the 
brunette    persuasion 


Just  two  little  girls  from  Metro- 
Goldwyn-Mayer,  trying  to  get  ahead 
(they've  got  the  figures,  as  you  can 
see  for  yourself)-  Blonde  Joan  Marsh 
wears  black,  and  brunette  Conchita 
Montenegro  goes  for  shell  pink. 
Instead  of  separate  bandeau,  corset 
and  step-in,  these  modern  maids  wear 
an  all-in-one.  form -flattering  garment 


Joan  tucks  the  blouse  of  her  jaunty  jersey  suit 
inside  her  skirt  so,  to  be  different.  Conchit.: 
wears  hers  over  the  skirt.  Joan  presses  back 
the  brim  of  her  felt  hat,  so  Conchita  lets  he^ 
flop  down.  Joan's  suit  is  green:  Conchita  .- 
wine,  with  hats  to  match 


Sunshine 


and 


Shadow 


Black  chiffon  velvet  becoming  to  both 
blonde  and    brunette,  tor   semi-forma 
wear.    Joans  frock   is  belted  at  the 
normal  waistline;  yoke  and  puff  lie 
are   of  lace.     Conchita's    more    sophi.< 
ticated   model    is    on    a    beaded    yoke 
Joans  beret    is    of  open    work    velvet 
with    grosgrain    band    and    bow. 
Conchita's    hat    is    a    draped    velvet 


All  dressed  up  for  a  Hollywood  picture 
premiere.  Blonde  Jain's  wrap  has  a  fbtte* 
ing  princess  line,  but  Conchita  prefers  a  cape 
with  collar  of  white  tax  to  frame  her  dark 
hair.  Their  tight-bodiced  gowns  of  white 
satin  are  lust  ahki 


P  i  €  I  m  r  i 


H  u  r  r  c  II 


itto  Dyar 


MR.  WILLIAM  POWELL  with  his  book — an  excellent  picture  of  the 
popular  star  at  home.  He  may  be  a  big  star  to  us,  but  he's  just  Willy  to 
his  mamma,  who  answers  his  'phone,  lays  out  his  things,  and  is  a  devoted  mother 
to  her  actor  son.  Across  the  page  you  will  find  printed  for  the  first  time  the 
story  of  the  home  life  of  William,  his  mother,  his  father  and  his  ways 


WiHiii)}!   Powell  may  be   Philo   Vance   to  you.    but   he's   fust 


U 


Willy"  to  his  Mother 


The   story  of    Powells,    Incorporated,   and 

how   Ma    and    Pa,  late    of    Kansas    City,    run 
Bill's   finances   and   fetch    his   orange    juice 


YOU  oever  think  of  William 
(Philo  Vane*)  Powell  being 
head  of  a  business  organization, 

do  >  OU?     1  le  is,  though,  and  here's  how  it  (  onus  about : 

The  Powells,  first  of  all,  are  a  typical,  happy  American 
family.  Alter  that,  they  are  a  thoroughgoing  business  con- 
cern.    William  is  both  head  and  chief  commodity. 

Such  doubling  in  brass  isn't  an  easy  trick,  but  Bill  Powell's 
acting  ability  is  something  well  worth  selling  and  Paramount 
pays  right  handsomely  for  it.  Horatio  Warren  Powell,  Hill's 
dad,  is  the  auditor,  secretary  and  treasurer  of  the  concern. 
Mrs.  II.  \V.  Powell,  Hill's  mother,  is  the  private  and  personal 
secretary,  and  a  sort  of  valet  de  chambre,  on  a  dignified  basis, 
of  course.  They  don't  actually  have  letterheads  and  an  office 
boy,  but  that's  all  that  is  missing. 

They  are  about  the  most  sufhcient-unto-themsclves  family 
in  Hollywood.     Scarcely  anyone  in  Hollywood  has  met  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Powell,  the  parents  of  the  suave  William.  This  is 
the  first  time  their  picture  has  ever  been  published  with 
their  son.   They  prefer  to  stay  in  the  background,  living 
solely  for  Bill.    Most  of  all  they  dread  being  classed  as 
a  motion  picture  father  and  mother — the  kind  that 
stir  up  troubles  at  studios  and  sweep  into  a  cafe 
with  the  very  audible  announcement  that  they 
are  the  mother  and  father  of  so  and  so. 

For  the  first  time  they  have  bared  the  inner 
workings  of  that  little  closed  corporation  of 
theirs — father,  mother  and  son.    Only  after 
Bill  had  consented,  would  they  consider 
giving  away  business  secrets.     It  takes 
no  Philo  Vance  to  discover  that  Hill's 
wishes  carry  weight  in  that  family. 
But  then  he  is  an  only  son — and 
you  know  how  those  only  sons  are. 

The  father  attends  to  all  the 
business.    Bill  doesn't  have  to 
worry   about    anything    but 
collecting    his    pay-check. 
It  is  his  father  who  takes 
that     very     substantial 
check  and  converts  it 
into    stocks    and 


By     jVl  ll  f  (j  U  I  S     OUS  by      bondaj  od  but  not  I  lent 

interest.      I  he  investments  are  i 

M-rvative,  but  William  is  conserval 
too.    He  lives  modestly  and  comfortably.  Jusl 

to  take  a  chant  e  by  pla\  ing  the  stock  market  on  margin     - 
ing  inelegantly,  he  lost  his  shirt.     Since  then  he  has  been  al 
lutely   contented    with    reliable,   straightforward   investrm 


"    A   T  the  end  of  the  month,"  .stated  Bill's  dad,  '"I  submit  a 

-ftlLstatement  to  Bill.     Kverything  is  there,  down  in  hi 
and  white.     He  checks  it  thoroughly.    Of  I  he  statement 

isn't  too  complicated.     Bill  doesn't  know  much  about  b 
keeping,  ami  lie  wouldn't  understand  an  elaborate  system." 

And  you  sort  of  feel  that  Powell,  p' ' ■ ,  is  just  a  little  sad  that 
he   can't    present    an    involved    statement.      He    was    a    bank 
auditor   back    in    Kansas  City   before   Bill   persuaded   his 
family  to  join  him. 
"We  don't  use  abudget  system.    Bill  spends  what  he  pleases 
and  when  he  pleases.    When  he  writes  a  check,  however, 
he  always  writes  a  second  for  the  same  amount  without 
a  signature.    In  that  way  I  keep  track  of  all  expendi- 
tures.    He  never  forgets  that  second  check." 
There  are  many  letters  coming  in  all  the  tin-.- 
is  absolutely  amazing  how  many  Long-lost  broth- 
ers and  sisters  there  are  in  the  Powell  family. 
Inasmuch  as  Bill  is  the  only  child,  these  letters 
aren't  difficult  to  handle.     Some  li 
quire  a  little  secret  service  v.  .>rk.     There 
.  for  instance,  the  young  lady  who 
insisted  that  she  was  a  daughter  of  Bill. 
After  a   little  checking   it   was   dis- 
covered that  the  young  lady  first 
I  H  --  ) 


The  first  picture  ever  published 

of     Bill     Powell      with      his 

parents,    Mr.    and    Mrs. 

Horatio    Warren    Powell. 

They  surely  take  mighty 

0,  good  care  of  "Willy"! 


tiV    i 


65 


K 


Boo,  says  Louis 
Wolheim!  But 
don't  be  frightened, 
children.  For  all 
that  ferocious  face, 
Mister  Wolheim  is 
akindly  and 
courageous  gentle- 
man. Just  the 
same,  we  wouldn't 
rouse  him  much,  if 
we  were  you! 


r-r-r-r-r 


/ 


IT  was  a  lovely  nose,  once.    And  then  it  got  into  a  football 
game. 
Somebody      yelled:     "14  .  .  .  8  .  .  .  58  .  .  .  3  .  .  .!" 
And  a  score  of  young  men  piled  up  in  a  heap.     Down  at 
the  bottom  of  the  heap  was  the  nose,  attached  to  the  face  of 
an  earnest  young  mathematics  student  called  Louis  Wolheim. 

Bye  and  bye  the  heap  was  taken  apart,  and  so,  eventually, 
they  reached  the  nose  of  young  Mr.  Wolheim.  But  alack  and 
alas — it  was  no  longer  a  nose.  It  was  to  a  nose  what  ham- 
burger steak  is  to  a  cow. 

"That,''  soliloquizes  young  Mr.  Wolheim,  "is  one  hell  of  a 
nose."  So  he  went  to  a  hospital,  and  surgeons  and  internes 
and  nurses  labored  and  wrought  wonders.  And  when  at  last 
they  took  off  the  bandages  and  adhesive  tape,  young  Mr. 
Wolheim's  nose  was  a  lovely  nose  again.  It  was  as  good  as 
new — rebuilt  and  splendid. 

"That,"  said  young  Mr.  Wolheim 
boscis  in  a  mirror,  "is  a  swell  nose, 
celebration!" 

So  the  nose  was  celebrated.  Some- 
where during  the  celebration,  one  of 
the  co-celebrators  said  to  young  Mr. 
Wolheim,  apropos  of  nothing  in  par- 
ticular: 

"  Shay  —  hie!  —  you're  a  —  hie! — 
sho-an'-sho!"  Only  he  didn't  say  "so- 
and-so."    He  said  bad  words. 

"Who,  me?"  asked  young  Mr. 
Wolheim,  pointing  his  nice  new  nose 
at  the  other. 

"Yeah,  you!"  and  the  fellow  let 
loose  a  wild  swing.  Young  Mr.  Wol- 
heim's pretty,  synthetic  nose  hap- 
pened to  be  on  the  swing's  line  of 

66 


admiring  his  new  pro- 
That  nose  deserves  a 


Louis  "Tough  Guy" 
Wolheim,  an  artistic 
gent,  tries  hard  to 
live  down  to  that 
famous  Gothic  nose 


By    Harry    Lang 

march.  There  was  a  squush!  And  in  an  instant,  the  con- 
centrated labors  of  surgeons  and  nurses  and  time  was  a  mess. 
Once  again,  young  Mr.  Wolheim's  nose  looked  like  a  neglected 
piece  of  putty. 

"This,"  concluded  young  Mr.  Wolheim,  "is  getting  monot- 
onous."    Then  he  knocked  the  other  fellow  cold  and  went 
his  way,  and  his  way  was  not  to  a  hospital.    And  that,  boys 
and  girls,  is  the  story  of  how  Mr.  Wolheim's  nose  got  that  way. 
That  was  a  long  time  ago,  when  Louis  had  dreams  of  being 
a  good  civil  engineer.     But  with  a  nose  like  that,  no  one 
could  be  a  civil  engineer  or  a  civil  anything.    It  is,  obviously, 
the  most  uncivil  nose  one  can  imagine.    So  he  became  an  actor. 
That  led,  in  turn,  to  further  complications — associated  in- 
extricably with  that  nose.    It  led  to  complications  because  it 
led  to  Hollywood,  and  complications  and  Hollywood  are  as 
inseparable  as  ham  and  eggs.    With 
Mr.  Wolheim,  it's  like  this: 

In  Hollywood  are  lovely  ladies. 
Lovely  ladies  don't,  as  a  rule,  like 
unlovely  noses.  In  Hollywood  are 
plastic  surgeons.  So  every  once  in  a 
while,  Mr.  Wolheim  considers  his 
nose  in  a  looking-glass,  says  a  few 
wolheimish  words,  and  announces 
that  he's  going  to  have  that  blankety- 
blank  nose  fixed. 

Then  ensues  a  hue  and  a  cry. 
"You  can't  have  the  schnozzle  fixed," 
ukase  his  employers,  "because  what 
we're  paying  you  three  thousand  a 
week  for  [  please  turn  to  page  118  ] 


~Jksu  Morality 


Gi 


ause 


Dolyphine  Dale 
boasted  once  too 
often  that  she 
could  get  any 
woman's  husband 


i 


CAN  pet  any  woman's  husband — anybody's,"'  boasted 
the  blonde  actress.  Dolyphine  Dale,  as  she  poured  tea  in 
the  dressing  room  of  her  Hollywood  bungalow. 
And  the  remark  spread  like  wildfire. 
"Yes?"    replied    Gloria    Bright    when,    at    the    Westmore 
Country  Club,  the  boast  was  repeated  to  her.     "She  can,  can 
she?    Well,  I'd  like  to  see  her  get  mine!-' 

Ethel  Wayne  smiled.    She  knew  just  how  Gloria  meant  this. 
"There  is  only  one  obstacle  to  her  trying."  Ethel  continued. 
"There  is  a  morality  clause  in  her  contract  .  .  ." 
"What's  a  morality  clause?"' 

"A  clause  that  says  if  a  movie  star  does  anything  that  offends 

public  decency — anything  immoral  which  puts  her  in  wrong 

with  the  public,  the  studio  has  a  right  to  cancel  her  contract." 

"Oh — I  see.    But  sometimes  I  think  the  worse  thev  act  the 


A  handsome,  well-groomed  man  of 

thirty  was  always  her  escort  now, 

and  Hollywood  smiled  at  the  new 

romance 


B y    S a  da     Co  w  a  ;/ 

better  the  public  likes  them — especially  I  like 

Dolyphine  ." 

"  I  don't  know  about  that.  The  public  is  more  or  less  like  a 
flea  and  you  can't  tell  which  way  it  will  jump.  The  wise  ones 
know  this.  So  some  of  them — especially  girls  like  Dolyphine 
who  have  already  figured  in  several  big  scandals — are  commenc- 
ing to  watch  their  step."' 

As  they  talked,  a  handsome,  well-groomed  man  of  thirty, 
with  round,  brown  eyes  joined  them.  It  was  Gloria  Bright's 
husband. 

""  What's  the  argument?"'  he  asked.    And  was  told. 

Whether  his  imagination  was  piqued,  whether  the  advance 
publicity  acted  in  Dolyphine's  favor,  or  whether,  in  any  . 
the  actress  could  have  made  good  her  boast  to  capture  any 
woman's  husband,  is  not  known. 

67 


A   husband-stealer   discovers   a   new   angle   to   the    old    game 


But  it  was  known— and  openly  discussed — that  less  than  a 
month  from  this  date,  at  road-house  and  beach,  tucked  away 
in  this  corner  and  t hut,  Dolyphine  Dale  was  now  always  accom- 
panied by  a  handsome,  well-groomed  man  of  thirty,  with  round, 
brown  eyes. 

Another  month  passed  and  the  daily  rendezvous  took  place 
more  openly.    They  were  seen  together  everywhere. 

Summer  came  and  went.  When  the  court  re-opened  after  its 
vacation,  the  case  of  Bright  vs.  Bright  was  one  of  the  first  on  its 
calendar,  and  an  unknown  actress,  whom  the  wife  was  too  kind 
to  mention,  was  cited  as  co-respondent. 

But  there  were  whispers  and  rumors  in  Hollywood!  And  in 
some  strange  way  the  story  crept  out  and  fell  into  the  hands  of 
those  who  knew  best  how  to  use  it. 

Dolyphine  Dale — Co-respondent  in  Famous  Divorce  Case — 
shrieked  the  headlines. 

The  public  read  and  rebelled.  For  Gloria  Bright  had  been 
left  —deserted — with  five  children.  The  public  felt  outraged. 
Each  woman  took  up  the  battle  individually.  It  became  a  per- 
sonal issue. 

Into  any  home,  at  any  time,  might  come  a  beautiful  blonde 
Dolyphine  Dale  and  leave  wreckage  in  her  wake!  Loud  was 
the  outcry  against  Dolyphine. 

So  loud,  in  fact,  that  it  was  heard,  and  felt,  in  the  only  place 
where  the  voice  mattered — at  the  box-office.  The  receipts  fell 
off.  Her  new  picture  was  an  utter  loss.  The  day  of  Dolyphine's 
popularity  as  a  star  was  over. 

THE  money  magnets  scowled,  growled,  and  did  much  useless 
talking,  remembering  that  they  had  invested  over  a  million 
dollars  in  her  publicity  and  that  her  renewed  contract,  at  a 
stupendous  weekly  salary,  had  four  more  years  to  run. 

"  But  she  will  ruin  us!  What  shall  we  do?  We've  got  to  get 
out  of  the  contract.    But  how?" 

"Ah!"    Suddenly  someone  remembered  the  morality  clause, 
and  it  became  a  saving  beacon  in  a  sea  of  financial  blackness. 
"  That's  it!    Of  course!    Why  didn't  we  think  of  that  before? 


Sure,  that's  the  way  out.  The  girl  ain't  decent,  and  we  can't 
have  no  reflections  cast  at  the  film  industry.  No  sir.  She's  got 
to  go." 

So  her  contract  was  broken  and  Dolyphine,  in  tears,  having 
forgotten  to  save  her  money  by  the  way,  left  her  friends,  her 
enemies  and  her  many  debts,  and  took  the  train  for  her  home 
town,  which,  by  some  mysterious  alchemy,  changed  suddenly 
from  Seville,  Spain,  to  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

With  the  purchasing  of  her  ticket  and  the  shaking  of  Holly- 
wood dust  from  her  heels,  she  also  dropped  abruptly  her  foreign 
accent. 

"I'm  through  with  pictures,"  she  said  to  a  seemingly  sym- 
pathetic reporter.  "They  interfere  too  much  with  personal 
liberty.  I'm  going  to  get  married.  Then  I  can  do  just  as  I 
please." 

She  sobbed  into  her  handkerchief.  "  The  darndest  part  of  the 
whole  thing  is  .  .  ."  For  a  moment  she  broke,  unable  to  con- 
tinue. "A  friend  of  mine  told  me  all  about  it.  It  seems  at  a 
golf  club  last  spring  my  famous  line  was  repeated  to  Gloria 
Bright." 

"  That  you  could  take  any  woman's  husband?"  ventured  the 
reporter. 

SHE  nodded  and  continued,  "'Oh,'  said  this  Mrs.  Bright, 
'she  can,  can  she?  Well,  I'd  like  to  see  her  get  mine.'  And  she 
planned  that  I  should  meet  him."  Tears  came  freely  now  from 
the  kohl-stained  eyes  and  fell  in  two  black  streamlets  down  the 
soft,  white  cheeks. 

"When  I  think  about  it  I  could  throw  a  fit!  Because  when 
she  said,  'I'd  like  to  see  any  woman  get  mine,'  she  meant  it, 
actually  meant  it!  For  twelve  months  she  had  been  trying  to 
divorce  him  and  couldn't  get  a  thing  on  him. 

"  Now  she's  free.  And  I'm  a  wash-out.  And  the  worst  of  it 
all  is  to  think  that  I — Dolyphine  Dale — the  vamp  of  the  world 
— would  be  simple  enough  to  fall  for  a  thing  like  that.  When  it 
comes  to  knowing  her  onions,  you've  got  to  hand  it  to  a  society 
dame." 


Unmasking 
Andy 
Clyde 


Andy  Clyde 


TEN  to  one  you'll  never  find 
Andy  Clyde  when  you  visit  the 
Mack  Sennett  lot. 

Unquestionably,  if  you're  one  of 
the  thousands  of  fans  who  write  in 
to  say  they  like  Andy,  you'll  go  run- 
ning around  if  you  ever  get  onto 
Sennctt's  preserve,  looking  for  a 
rachitic    old    guy    with    a    frowzy 

moustache,  about  eight  days'  unshaved  whiskers,  unkempt  gray 
hair,  super-lensed  glasses,  antediluvian  clothes  and  a  corncob 
pipe. 

And  you  won't  find  him. 

But  you  might  see,  walking  in  and  out  of  an  office  or  dressing 
room,  a  good-looking,  somewhat  sheikish  Scotchman  of  thirty- 
one. 

He'll  be  talking  with  a  Scotch  accent.  If  you  recognize  him 
for  an  actor  at  all,  you'll  probably  assume  he's  the  handsome 

68 


The  noted  Sennett 
comic  is  a  handsome 
young    Scots  man 


Also  Andy ! 


young    juvenile   in    the   picture. 
But  he  isn't. 
He's  Andy  Clyde. 
It  just  goes  to  show  what  make- 
up will  do.    Not  that  Andy  tries  the 
Lon  Chaney  tactics.     Lon  had  a 
thousand    make-ups.      Andy    has 
only  one  that  he  uses  regularh — 
the  bemoustached  old  egg!     You 
know  him — he's  the  same  in  all  Sennett  comedies. 

Matter  of  fact,  Andy  did  play  himself  "straight"  in  just  one 
of  the  Sennett  two-reelers.  And  of  course,  as  usual,  the  theater 
men  billed  the  picture  "with  Andy  Clyde." 

And  forthwith,  from  all  over  the  country,  came  violent  de- 
nunciatory letters,  wanting  to  know  why  Sennett  and  the 
theater  people  dared  advertise  Andy  Clyde  when  he  simply  was 
not  in  the  picture!  !  ! 

And  so  he's  never  played  "straight"  since. 


Aged   psychoanalyst  now    fo cusses    his    inspired 

spyglass    on    Jean    liar  low,   who    is    also    known    as 


J£ells 

Angel 


By 
Prof.    Dr.    Leonard   Hall 


IN  my  poking  and  snooping  around  among  the  suppressions, 
depressions   and    expressions   of   the   movie   great,    I    have 
come  upon  many  startling  things. 
\-  a  psychoanalyst  of  practically  no  standing  it  was  my 

good  fortune  to  discover  Mary  Pickiord's  barberphobia,  or 

''clipper-fear.'*  caused  by  the  fact  that  she  had  worn  long 
corkscrew  curls  for  nigh  onto  thirty  years.     You  may  remember 

mv  learned  monograph  on  malignant  Garbomania     that  deadly 

disease  which  has  caused  thousands  of  our  girls  to  expose 
their  foreheads,  fake  an  accent  and  keep  their  eyes  half  dosed 
in  an   effort   to  appear   mysterious  and   alluring. 

This  one  symptom  alone  has  caused   literally   hundreds  of 
our  young  women  to  be  hit  on  the  south  facade  by  taxicabs. 


Miss  Jean  Harlow,  the  platinum  blonde 
charmer  who  is  the  subject  of  this  fascinat- 
ing study  by  Old  Doc  Hall 


In  spite  of  the  astounding  results  of  my  past   rummaging 
among  so  called    "souls"    (ha-ha!),    I    have   seldom    been   ■ 
fronted    with    a    more    interesting    subject    than    Mi>>    Jean 
Harlow,  who  shall  be  known  hereafter  in  tt  for  pur- 

3  of  brevity,  as  That  Hotsy  Totsy  Platinum-Haired  Baby 
Doll  Who  Knocks  Over  Hen  Lyon  in  the  Early  Sequel 
of  "Hell's  Angels"  by  Appearing  Clothed  Almost  Entirely  in 

Her  Armor  of  Girlish  Purity. 

Well,    to   make   a   long   story    interminable.    I  lured 

into  Suite  .'•oil  of  the  famous  '  rker  Hotel  (Ah  tl 

Manager  Hit/!     How  about  a  due  bill')  by  - 
house-detectives,  and  came  face  to  face  with  my  sub 

young  men.  your  worst  fears  are  true!     Mi»  Harlow 
die  to  me)  is  calculated  to  knock  you  over  with  an  eyelash 
at  fifty  paces.     Both  in  circumference,  diameter  and  altitude 
she  is  eminently  satisfactory.     On  her  right  ankle  land  . 
an  ankle  it  is.   not  to  mention  the  left!1  she  w<  Iver 

anklet    or  "shackle  d'amour."  as  we  French  have  it).     Over  a 
piquant   (whoops!)   and  provocative  face,   studded  with 
gorgeous  samples  of  the  human  eye.  or  orb,  appears  that  r 
of  amazin'  hair,  which  starts  several  inches  above  the  i 
brows,  ripples  gracefully  over  the  skull  and  falls  in  a  torrent 
of  silver  down  the  back  of  the  lady's  neck. 

Silver?     Not  exactly — it  is  about  the  color  of  a  pa! 
water  taffy,  or  the  bracelet  you  mean  to  buy  th  pie 

the  very  next  minute  there's  a  bull  market.     It  is  startling  hair, 
almost  bizarre,  but  on  the  whole  quite  beautiful. 

Hut  enough  of  externals.     It  is  Miss  Harlow's  sub.  or  un- 
co: ith  which  this  treatise  h. 

\-    1    stepped    into    her   present  i     I 
struck  her  sharply  on  the  knee-cap  with 
one  of   the   little   hammers   we   scier 
carry    on    all    professional  Miss 

Harlow  feinted  smartly  with  her  left  and 
then  drove  a  sharp  right  to  the  third 
weskit  button.  "Forthright,  earnest,  sin- 
cere and  handy  with  her  dukes,"  I  jotted 
down  on  my  tab! 

Mi--   Harlow    was  surprised  in  the  act 
of  reading  [please  tubj  e   110] 


Old   Doc   in   his  laboratory,   taking  a 

good  squint  for  himself  at  the  lady  of 

"Hell's  Angels" 


Wh 


ose 


The  Spanish  War  influence  was  still  strong  in 
military  costuming  when  this  gallant  youngster 
put  on  his  first  soldier  suit  and  marched  off  to 
battle  in  "Fatty"  Brown's  back  yard.  He  had 
a  sword,  so  the  kids  elected  him  general.  It's 
Richard  Semler  Barthelmess,  posed  at  the  age 
of  ten  and  a  bit 


A 


re 


PHOTOPLAY'S  great 
baby-guessing 
contest  —  no  prize! 
Which  bouncing  tot 
is  what  well-known 
star?  Cover  the  names 
and    guess    who! 


As  pretty  a  mother  and  daughter  picture  as 
you're  apt  to  find  in  a  search  through  a  thou- 
sand family  albums.  The  little  girl  grew  up  to 
be  a  dashing,  flaming  youth  star,  and  wife  of  a 
noted  lad.  It's  Joan  Crawlord  and  her  mamma, 
when  Joan  was  just  exactly  five 


e  specializes  in  vamps,  girls  with  a  past, 
and  girls  with  a  hectic  present.  Her  own 
career  has  been  filled  with  personal  and  pro- 

sional  sadness.  And  you  might  not  guess 
this  winsome  little  body  is  none  other  than 
Mary  Nolan,  aged  ten 


Baby 

Y 


o  u 


? 


Well,  she  looks  tame 
enough  here!  You'd 
little  think  that  this  six- 
year-old  would  grow  up 
to  be  one  of  Hollywood's 
most  famous  spitfires, 
noted  for  her  spirit  of 
hoopla  on  set  and  off. 
Oop!  You've  guessed! 
Lupe  Velez! 


This  one,  of  course,  you'd  never  guess  in  a  million  years.  It 
doesn't  resemble  anything  but  a  pretty,  healthy  baby,  with  no 
aches  and  no  pins  sticking  it  anywhere.  None  the  less,  this  is 
Arthur  Lake,  the  lanky  lad,  in  his  first  birthday  suit.  Ah 
there,  Art! 


A  mischievous  boy  and  his  'ittle  sisser, 
to  get  maudlin  about  it.  This  was 
taken  down  in  Virginia,  suh,  on  the  ole 
family  plantation,  and  brother  and 
sister  have  been  set  up  before  the 
camera  and  told  to  look  for  a  birdie  — 
any  birdie.  And  we  might  as  well  con- 
fess that  it's  Bill  Haines  at  four,  with 
his  sister  Lillian 


Some  more  soldier  clothes,  but  this  time  it's  World 
War,  or  just  pre-war.  The  little  boys  got  uniforms 
for  Christmas  that  year.  The  one  on  the  left  is 
Charles  Rogers  of  Olathe,  Kan.  Behind  them  stands 
Charlie's  soldier  uncle,  Arch  Moll 


From    the    cradle    to   the    screen  —  more    infant   actors 


A  little  Canadian 
girl  who's  smiling 
as  though  she  al- 
ready knew  of  all 
the  nice  things  in 
store  for  her  in 
years  to  come.  Her 
name  is  Norma 
Shearer,  and  at  the 
time  this  was 
snapped  she'd 
reached  the  age  of 
three 


What  a  sweet  little  boy!  Note  the  cascading 
curls  and  the  booful  bow  tie !  We'll  wager  he 
turned  out  to  be  the  nicest  boy  on  the  block. 
You  don't  tell  us!  Why,  it's  Buster  Keaton 
when  he  was  four  years  old 


'■■ 


This  one  may  be  easy.  A 
Missouri  kid,  a  hellion  out 
of  school,  but  on  his  best 
behavior  before  the 
camera.  But  there's  dan- 
ger in  those  eyes,  cherie! 
This  is  ten-year-old  Jack 
Oakie,  duded  up 


Now  here's  as  tractable  and  well-behaved 
a  two-year-old  as  you  could  find.  Why, 
butter  wouldn't  melt  in  the  little  girl's 
mouth.  And  who  do  you  suppose  it  turned 
out  to  be?  Why,  harum-scarum,  rip-roar- 
ing Polly  Moran! 


Serious?  My  word !  He's  going 
to  be  a  judge  at  the  very  least, 
and  probably  President.  But  he 
became  a  very  he-man  movie 
star,  six-shooter,  chaps  and  all. 
In  other  words,  it  represents  Mr. 
Richard  Arlen  at  the  advanced 
age  of  eight 


72 


John  Boles 
Confesses 


Universale  Great  Lover 
discloses  the  technique 
of  amour  that  made  him 
famous  on   the   screen 

By   Harry    La?ig 


Photoplay, 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

Mr.  Photoplay: 
Well,  hen  /  am  igain. 

You  remember  me,  don't  you.'  I'm  the  fellow  who  read  thai  story 
you  Inul  wherein  Irving  Berlin  told  how  to  'write  a  popular  song 
and  I  wrote  two  but  tiny  weren't  popular. 

Anyu  .  I  rote  you  then  and  asked  you  for  advice  on  how  to  be 
funny  at  a  party  I  was  invited  to,  and  you  got  Eddie  Cantor  to  tell 
vie.  I  did  what  Eddie-  said  in  that  artiele,  and  I  haven't  been 
invited  to  any  parties  si  nee. 

Well,  your  adviee  has  been  so  successful  that  maybe  you'll  help 

vie  out  again  this  time.     You  see.  Em  in  love,  but  I  was  brought  up 

right  and  I  don't  know  how  to  go  about  showing  my  love,  to  the 

I  of  My  Affections.    Howi  ver,  she  is  quite  pe<  ans  about  John 

Boles  and  the  way  he  makes  love  on  the  screen,  so  maybe  if  you 

/  ask  him  for  a  few  hints,  heh? 

Yours  as 

OBADIAH  SWIMPE 

WHY,  OBIEMI  Not  really?  WeU,  you  old-fashioned 
thing,  you!  Of  course,  we're  glad  to  help  you  out,  and 
any  time  you  want  some  advice  on  sword  swallowing  or 
pretzel-bending  or  anything,  just  ask  us  that,  too. 

We  found  John  Boles  for  you  out  at  Universal  City,  w  here  he 
was  busily  making  love  to  Lupe  Yelez  in  "Resurrection."'  It 
was  a  gr-r-r-r-rand  love  scene  they  were  shooting.  John  gazed 
deep  into  her  eyes,  and  all  that  sort  of  thing,  and  then  kissed 
her. 

After  a  tepidly  decorous  footage  oi  celluloid  passed,  according 
to  the  Will  Havs  code  of  censorship,  the  director  said: 

"Cut!" 

John  kept  right  on  kissing  Lupe. 

"CUT!  I"  repeated  the  director. 

John  kissed  on. 

"C  U  T  !  !  !"  screamed  the  director. 

John  lifted  his  lips  from  Lupe's. 

"  [,"  he  said,  languorously,  "heard  you  the  first  time." 

Well,  Obadiah,  we  won't  go  on  with  the  conversation.  We'll 
just  tell  you  how  Boles  responded  to  your  call  for  help.  He's  a 
grand  guy.  Boles.  Tall,  good-looking  as  he  is  on  the  screen, 
cheerful,  and  willing  to  help  out. 

And  Obie,  you  sure  picked  a  good  authority  w  hen  you  picked 


John  Boles  demonstrates  his  theories,  the  party  of 
the  second  part  being  Lupe  Velez.  It's  a  shot  from 
their  new  'Resurrection,"  and  this  is  Russian  Love. 
Will  the  class  please  distinguish  between  the  Rus- 
sian and  Hollywood  brands? 


John.  John  has  made  passionate  love  to  fifteen  women.  Four- 
teen of  them  are  movie  star>;  the  other  is  his  wife.  They're 
happily  married.     And  any  man  who  can  make  1  'ria 

Swanson,  Greta  Nissen,  Patsy  Kuth  Miller,  olive  Borden, 
Molly  O'Day,   Mary   Astor,   Leatrice   Joy.    Lain  ate, 

Carlotta  King,  Vivienne  Segal,  Jeanette  Loff,  Bebe  I 
Evelyn   Lave  and  Lupe  Velez,    and  still  keep  his  wife     that 
man's  good:      Even  if  he  couldn't  keep  his  wife,  he'd  still  be 

good! 

"  Mr.  Boles."  we  began,  while  Lupe  hurri<  telephone 

Gary,  or  something,  "how  should  Obadiah  Swimph  ma- 

"Who  cares?"  Holes  wanted  to  know. 

"Well  -er — maybe  Obadiah  cares."  we  sugcested. 

"Oh,  all  right,  then,  come  along."  he  said  mcalong. 

and  he  led  the  way  into  the  restaurant.  We  sat.  He  studied 
the  bill  of  fare.     We  resumed. 

"What  do  vou  need,"  we  asked,  to  open  the  line,  "to  make 
love?" 

"Chi  iss  cheese,  with  plenty  of  holes.     On  rye,"  he 

said.  "  Make  it  Russian  rye — this  is  a  Tolstoi  story  I'm  play- 
ing, so  I'll  stay  in  character.  And  Russian  dressing."  The 
waitress  left. 

"  Hut  Mr.  Boles."  we  begged,  "what  about  love?  Please  tell 
Obadiah  Swimph.  through  us.  how  to  make  love." 

He  looked  at  us  for  a  long,  long  time,  as  though  he  were  think- 
ing of  pleasant  ways  to  commit  murder.  Then  he  looked  at  the 
ceiling.  Then  he  looked  at  the  note  the  waitress  had  brought 
from  two  blondes  at  a  nearby  table.  Then  he  looked  at  the  two 
blondes.    Then  he  said:  [  please  turn  to  page  118] 


Pola  Negri,  as  Bella 
Donna  in  her  first 
American-made 
film,  wore  the  con- 
ventional clinging 
black  associated 
with  vampire  parts. 
Note  the  dramatic 
contrast  with  the 
light-colored  gar- 
ments worn  by  the 
other  characters 


The  expert 
turned  many 


tells 
with 
colo 


r  can 


IMAGINE  a  world  without 
color,  all  black-and-white. 
The  maddening  monotonv  of 
it! 

Though  we  know  very  little 
about  it,  though  we  accept  the 
magic  of  it  with  casual  indiffer- 
ence, color  has  tremendous  im- 
portance in  our  lives. 

Color  can  influence  our  moods, 
stimulate  our  minds,  magnetize 
our  bodies.  It  can  attract.  It 
can  repel.  Color  can  intensify  a 
woman's  charm,  or  dispel  it. 

Color  can  make  her  gay  or 
grave,  happy  or  sad.  It  can  be 
dull.    It  can  be  shrill.    It  can  be 

capricious.    It  can  be  tragic.     Color  can  make  a  costume  pert, 
impudent,  amusing,  tender,  or  serious. 

Without  boring  you  with  any  scientific  theories  of  what  color 
is.  I  ask  you  only  to  believe  that  it  is  a  definite  and  powerful 
force  working  either  for  or  against  us  by  the  manner  in  which 
we  employ  it,  that  it  has  a  far  greater  influence  than  most  of  us 
realize.  Then  I  shall  tell  you  what  I  have  learned  about  color 
through  my  own  experience  in  association  with  that  extremely 
color-sensitive  group  of  women,  the  screen  stars.  For  years  I 
have  worked  with  the  application  of  color  to  the  moods  and 
characters  of  motion  pictures. 

I  once  showed  M.  Worth,  of  Paris,  a  dress  I  had  made  for 
Clara  Bow.  He  laughed.  "I  am  not  laughing  at  the  dress,"  he 
said,  "it  is  very,  very  chic.  I'm  laughing  at  its  extreme  im- 
pertinence." And  that  is  exactly  what  it  was  intended  to  have, 
to  accent  the  character  which  Miss  Bow  was  playing. 

Your  dislike  for  certain  colors  may  be  an  instinctive  one, 
which  you  could  not  analyze,  or  it  may  be  the  result  of  some 
conscious,  or  subconscious  emotional  association,  for  it  is  quite 
easy  to  understand  how  one  might  grow  to  detest  even  a  once 
favorite  color,  if  some  tragic,  unpleasant  or  embarrassing  thing 
had  happened  while  one  was  wearing  it,  or  it  was  otherwise 
present  in  one's  surroundings  at  the  time. 

Gloria  Swanson  expressed  a  most  violent  antipathy  for  the 
color  known  as  ''old  rose."  She  not  only  refused  to  wear  it,  but 
would  not  even  permit  its  use  in  the  decoration  of  the  stage 
settings,  in  which  she  was  to  work. 


who  cos- 
film  stars 
what  you  can  do 
color  and  what 
do  to  you 


One  day,  while  we  were  filming 
one  of  her  pictures,  I  noticed 
that  things  were  at  a  standstill, 
and  inquired  the  reason.  It 
seemed  that  her  director,  Mr. 
Allan  Dwan,  could  not  work  her 
up  to  the  proper  pitch  of  irrita- 
tion which  he  felt  was  required 
to  put  over  a  certain  scene.  Miss 
Swanson  was  in  just  too  amiable 
a  mood  to  work  up  a  temper. 

I  told  him  I  thought  I  could 

help  him  out.    When  I  gave  him 

my  plan  he  was  skeptical,  but  he 

gave  me  permission  to  try.     I 

sent  one  of  the  extra  ladies  to 

the    costume  studio,    and   had 

her  fitted  from  head  to  foot  in  a  vivid  ensemble  of  old  rose 

velvet.    I  told  her  to  keep  as  near  Miss  Swanson  as  she  could, 

always  in  her  direct  line  of  vision. 

It  was  not  long  before  the  hated  color  began  to  have  the  de- 
sired effect,  and  Miss  Swanson  announced,  in  no  uncertain 
terms,  that  she  would  not  do  any  work  at  all  until  that  "old 
rose  abomination"  had  been  removed  from  her  sight.  Well  as  I 
knew  her,  I  never  dared  tell  her  of  the  trick  I  had  played  upon 
her,  but  I  did  try  in  every  way  to  find  out  why  she  hated  this 
particular  shade  so  intensely. 


I  NEVER  did  find  out  from  her,  but  I  discovered  later  that  old 
rose  was  a  great  favorite  with  Pola  Negri,  and  that  she  wore  it 
often.  Now,  Gloria  and  Pola  were  bitter  rivals  and  enemies,  so 
much  so  that  each  of  these  "  Czarinas  of  the  Screen"  refused  to 
work  in  the  same  studio  with  the  other.  So  it  will  not  be  diffi- 
cult for  you  to  understand  the  association  which  made  Gloria 
detest  what  is  otherwise  a  color  of  healthful  and  pleasant 
influence. 

"If  a  red-haired  woman,  with  a  face  covered  with  freckles," 
Lady  Duff  Gordon  once  said,  "wants  to  wear  watermelon  pink, 
she  must  have  it,  for  there  is  within  her  a  desire,  sentimental, 
emotional,  even  physical,  which  only  that  color  will  satisfy." 

It  was  during  my  association  with  Lady  Gordon,  famous 
designer  of  women's  gowns,  that  I  made  my  first  contact  with 
motion  pictures  in  the  person  of  the  exquisitely  blonde  and 
lovely  Billie  Burke,  the  wife  of  Florenz  Ziegfeld.    Her  director 


j§e  Careful  of 
Your  Colors 


By  H.  M.   K.  Smith 


extremely  partial  to  one  of  the  rm»t  disagreeable  shad 

yellow  green  that  c\i-t>.  not  for  its  color  value  to  the  eye,  l>ut 

for  its  camera  value,  which  was  a  warm  and  lovely  gray.  He 
insisted  that  Miss  Burke's  costumes  be  made  in  varying  shades 
of  this  color. 

1  will  never  forget  the  day  she  came  in  to  try  a  Degligee, 
which  had  been  made  in  the  desired  shade  of  chiffon.  She  put 
it  on,  took  one  look  at  it,  and  that  was  that.  No  argument  by 
the  director  that  the  color  would  accent  her  every  charm  on  the 
screen  had  any  weight  whatsoever. 

"  That  color  does  something  to  me  inside  that  I  can't  explain, 
and  which  you  would  not  understand."  she  said,  and  both  the 
negligee,  and  all  the  rest  of  her  costumes  for  that  picture,  were 
made  in  the  colors  which  she  liked  to  wear. 

Because  of  this  knowledge  of  the  emotional  and  physical 
effects  of  color,  I  was  always  careful  to  find  out  from  the  great 
stars  of  the  screen  at  my  first  conference  on  the  subject  of 
costumes,  what  their  color  preferences  were.  And,  where, 
because  of  camera  values.  1  could  not  give  a  star  an  entire 
costume  in  her  favorite  shade.  I  always  managed  somcho 
give  her  something  that  would  make  her  conscious  that  she  was 
wearing  the  color  she  loved.  A  bag,  a  hat,  a  parasol,  a  jewel: 
sometimes  it  was  possible  only  in  the  lingerie  worn  underneath, 
but  always,  something.  [  please  tikx  to  page  1 1'>  | 


Nita  Naldi  often  chose  her  colors  for  the  moods 
they  inspired,  regardless  of  whether  they  were 
becoming.  She  was  partial  to  a  certain  un- 
flattering shade  of  pink,  simply  because  it  gave 
her  "a  great  kick" 


Perhaps  Gloria  Swanson  never  real- 
ized why  she  so  violently  disliked  a 
lovely  shade  of  old  rose.  But  Mr. 
Smith's  observing  eye  discovered  the 
secret  and  found  a  logical  reason  for 
her  antipathy  to  that  color 


Photos   by 
Hurrell 


Kay's  Newest 
Costumes 


CUT!  OKAY!"  sang  out  William  Dc  Mille,  directing  Kay 
Francis  in  a  scene  from  the  new  M-G-M  picture,  "Pas- 
sion Flower."  "Cut  okay,"  echoed  we,  thinking  about 
the  grand  gowns  Kay  wears  in  her  role  of  Dulcie.  That  stun- 
ning" costume  on  the  left  is  of  tomato-red  wool,  with  gold- 
shaded  galyak  trimming.  Right,  salmon-pink  taffeta  com- 
bined with  black  velvet  (and  how!)  and  jeweled  shoulder 
straps  for  a  subtle  final  touch.      Both  designed  by  Adrian 


76 


^/r.B 


rook  Hates  Tea 


We  penetrate  the 
British  reticence  of 
Clive,  man  and  actor 

By  Michael  Woodward 


Gl.I \  I    BR< "  >K,  the  man.  is  a  colossally  difficult  person  to 
know.     You've  lu-ard   the  terms  "extrovert"  and   '  in- 
trovert"    Brook  is  the  latter,  with  a  vengeance. 
Heavily  coated   with   that    familiar   British  characteristic 
called   "reserve."   the  man    Brook  is  hard   to  get   at.      One  of  his 

quaintances  La  Hollywood  has  known  him  five  years. 

That  acquaintance  admits  frankly  that  the  real  (live  Brook  is 
still  a  bit  of  an  enigma. 

He  doesn't  like  to  talk  about  himself.  That  way,  he*s  utterly 
un-Hollywood.  So  many  of  these  motion  picture  personages 
are  constantly  conscious  of  the  first  person,  singular.  Brook 
isn't.  When  he  gets  into  a  group  of  persons  and  into  an  agree- 
able conversation,  (live  Brook  is  the  first  to  forget  that  (live 
Brook  is  present.  lli>  interest  lies  in  the  conversation  and  the 
others'  views,  not  in  himself. 

And  because  of  this,  few  people  know  him  well.  There's  hardly 
a  soul  in  Hollywood,  for  instance,  who  knows  that  ("live  Brook 
is  a  first-class  violinist.  He  plays  for  his  own  amusement  only, 
and  lets  very  few  people  know  he  can  do  it.  To  those  he  says: 
'T'll  throttle  you  if  you  breathe  this  to  a  soul!  Because,  as  a 
matter  of  fact,  I  play  so  poorly!'' 

Then  he  goes  ahead  and  plays  divinely — better  than  many  a 
person  who  makes  a  living  at  it. 

He's  keen  on  music,  anyway.  Real  music,  that  is.  When 
orthophonies  first  came  out,  he  studied  the  principle  of  the  new- 
type  of  sound  reproduction.  Learning  that  much  of  that  rich- 
ness and  volume  depended  on  the  length  of  the  '"horn"  in  the 
instrument,  he  had  a  special  one  built  at  tremendous  cost,  occupy- 
ing almost  an  entire  wall  space  in  one  end  of  a  big  room.  With 
this,  he  got  true  symphonic  volume  and  tone.  He  listens  to  it 
by  the  hour. 

FEW  people  know  that  he's  an  author.  A  real  author,  not  a 
dabbler.  He  has  had  published  by  British  magazines  many 
short  stories,  and  several  of  his  one-act  plays  and  vaudeville 
sketches  have  been  successfully  produced.  His  writings  are  of 
the  ultra-smart,  sophisticated  style. 

And  as  a  matter  of  fact,  he's  easily  one  of  the  best-read  men  in 
Hollywood.  His  relaxations  and  recreations  are  mostly  mental. 
"That's  what  you've  got  to  call  ("live  Brook — a  mental  type 
rather  than  a  physical,  despite  his  undeniable  physical  attractive- 
says  a  Hollywood  woman  who  knows  him  well. 

He's  no  hand  for  "whoopee."  He's  no  night  hound.  His  chief 
social  delights  consist  in  a  home  dinner  with  some  of  his  close 
friends — either  at  his  home  or  theirs.  He  doesn't  go  to  public 
cafes  and  places  of  amusement — and  yet.  he  likes  to  dance. 

"Give  me  a  graceful  partner,  good  music — and  I'll  be  happy — 
one  or  two  evenings  a  week."  he  says.  The  other  evenings,  he 
prefers  a  few  friends  who  can  talk  on  sufficiently  intelligent  sub- 
jects, or  his  home  and  his  books  and  his  music.  Dinner  table 
conversation  to  Brook  doesn't  mean  what  one's  golf  score  was, 
or  what  horse  may  win  at  Agua  Caliente,  or  how  much  a  picture 
is  going  to  gross. 

"You've  got  to  be  almost  highbrow  to  join  in  the  Clive  Brook 
dinner  table  discussion,"  is  the  way  one  who  knows  puts  it. 
"Not    professorial — but  intelligent  and  intellectual." 

Some  people  misinterpret  it  as  [  please  tvrn  to  page   104  ] 


The  Reserved  Mr.  Brook— 

117/0  plays  the  fiddle  beautifully  for 
his  own  pleasure — 

Who  was  shell-shocked  in  the  war, 
and  is  still  a  hit  foggy  on  j  erne  tu- 
be ring  names — 

Who  despises  dowdy  women — 

And  is  one  of  the  kindest  fellows 
in  Hollywood  I 


mos  n 


Amos  Hisself 


AN  airplane,  as  dilapidated  and  undernourished  as  a 
certain  fresh-air  taxicab,  zoomed  and  dipped  to  a  land- 
ing out  of  the  California  skies.     Two  gentlemen  of  a 
startling  cranberry  hue,  alighted  and  looked  about. 
"Urn!    Um!    Ain't  this  somep'n'?"  one  enquired. 
"Boy,"  replied  the  other,  "I'se  regusted." 
Amos  'n'  Andy  and  two  loads  of  sunburn,  had  arrived  in 
Hollywood.    Arrived  to  make  a  talking  picture,  Harlem  dialect. 
En  route  from  Chicago,  a  washout  along  the  line  had  unfortu- 
nately delayed  their  arrival  and  8:30  in  the  morning  found  the 
boys  stranded  in  Las  Vegas,  Nevada,  with  their  first  California 
broadcast  due  at  three  the  same  afternoon. 

There  was  just  one  thing  to  do.  They  did  it.  In  a  small  open 
plane,  the  only  one  they  could  resurrect,  they  gathered  unto 
themselves  all  the  sunburn  between  Nevada  and  California,  but 
in  true  movie  style  they  arrived  in  the  nick  of  time  and  the  day 
was  saved.  And  the  world,  his  wife,  and  all  the  little  worldlings 
gathered  about  the  radio  as  usual  and  chuckled  at  the  problems 
of  two  downtrodden  gentlemen  of  color. 

Amos  'n'  Andy,  who  are  in  reality  Freeman  F.  Gosden  and 
Charles  J.  Correll,  have  just  seen  their  first  talking  picture, 
"  Check  and  Double  Check,"  flash  on  the  nation's  screens.  No 
team  of  radio  entertainers  have  ever  reached  the  people  as  have 
these  two  very  simple  fellows  in  their  everyday  happenings  of 
two  pathetically  comical  negroes  and  their  Fresh-Air  Taxicab 
Company  of  America,  Incorpulated. 

ONE  day  in  Peoria,  111.,  Charles  J.  Correll  sat  behind  his  type- 
writer and  thought  things  over.  As  Secretary  to  the  State 
Superintendent  of  Instruction,  the  future  Andy  decided  things 
weren't  so  hot.  So  having  reached  this  momentous  decision 
Mr.  Correll  folded  up  his  typewriter  and  went  about  laying 
bricks  all  over  Illinois. 

Freeman  F.  Gosden  about  this  time  was  a  live-wire  tobacco 
salesman  in  Virginia,  but  the  future  Amos  decided  he,  too, 
craved  a  change  and  switched  to  selling  cars,  until  the  war  in- 
terrupted. After  the  war  he  was  still  dissatisfied.  A  chance 
came  to  join  a  booking  company  in  Chicago  that  produced 
amateur  theatricals.  Gosden  grabbed  that  chance  and  with 
that  one  little  grab,  what  do  you  think  he  "done  done"?  lie 
done  picked  off  for  himself  a  huge  hunk  of  fame  and  fortune,  for 
in  that  same  company  was  a  Charles  J.  Correll,  former  Illinois 
bricklayer.  Almost  at  once  these  two  began  a  friendship  that 
proved  deep  and  lasting. 

The  boys  shared  a  little  apartment  and  messed  around  a  little 
with  a  uke  and  piano,  as  Amos  would  say. 

7S 


The  Ebony  Emperors 
of  the  Air  splash  in  dem 
golden  pools,  ride  dem 
Rolls-Royces  and  allow 
Ain't    dat    somep'n'?" 


"  You  two  should  go  on  the  radio,"  their  friends  urged.  "And 
we  didn't  have  any  more  sense  than  to  believe  them,"  Amos 
grinned.  "So  we  tried  it  out  and,  boy,  were  we  a  mess?  We 
sang  about  forty  songs  a  night  and  they  were  all  bad.  In  those 
days  it  was  a  case  of  how  loud  an  entertainer  could  yell  into  the 
mike.  We  thought  we  were  good  when  a  listener  two  miles 
away  reported  having  heard  us  perfectly  without  a  radio." 

"And  yes,"  said  Andy,  "we  yelled  our  heads  off  over  that 
mike  for  over  seven  months  and  never  got  a  penny.  Not  a  cent. 
Boy,  we  must  have  been  bad!" 

Finally,  however,  the  great  day  came.  The  boys  were 
offered  one  hundred  dollars  a  week.  No  more  producing 
amateur  theatricals.  They  were  now  actually  being  paid  for  it. 
Hot  dog! 

Gradually  Amos  '«'  Andy  were  given  life.  They  appeared 
first  as  Sam  and  Henry  and  later  changed  to  the  now  popular 


Andy  Go 

Hollywood 


B  v    Sara    Ha m i It o ?i 


i  V  Andy.    At  first  the  boys  broadcast  [or  Chicago  only. 
Then  came  the  nation-wide  hook-up,  with  a  targe  manufac- 
turing company  behind  them,  and  .suddenly  the  whole  country 
.une  Amos  'it'  Andy  conscious. 

And,  like  all  good  little  boys  who  go  out  and  pet  themselves 
famous,  they  came  to  Hollywood  and  pictures.  And  did  they 
work?  There  wasn't  any  phase  of  the  business  in  which  they 
didn't  poke  a  black  but  determined  linger.  They  sat  in  on  story 
conferences.  They  survived.  They  submitted  to  hours  of 
experiments  in  make-up.  They  tried  on  screen  clothes.  They 
rehearsed.  As  Amos  says,  they  were  "photographed,  auto- 
graphed and  giraffed." 

They  wrote  all  their  own  radio  skits  on  the  side  and  trans- 
lated all  the  dialogue  of  the  picture  into  Amos  'n'  Andy  lingo. 
They  gave  out  interviews,  and  bounced  around  more  friskily 
than  the  proverbial  decapitated  chicken.  On  top  of  all  this. 
their  radio  broadcasts  went  right  along.  At  three  in  the  after- 
noon work  was  interrupted  for  the  Eastern  broadcast  and  again 
at  seven-thirty  for  the  W<  , 

About  2:45  each  afternoon,  on  a  big  sound  stage  on  the  Radio 


AikK  in  Puss'n 

Pictures  lot.  watches  began  to  appear  all  over  the  set.  Every- 
one nervously  watched  the  time,  everyone  but  Amos  '>;'  A 
who  appeared  quite  unconcerned.  At  2:50,  Director  Mil 
Brown  all  but  swooned.  The  technicians  chewed  their  nails, 
and  the  script  girl  softly  wept  in  her  hanky.  But  still  the  boys 
went  quietly  about  their  work,  as  unhurried  as  though  half  the 
United  States  weren't  waiting  to  hear  their  voices  in  just  a 
minutes. 

At  2:55,  with  a  "see  you  later."  two  unassuming  boys  calmly 
walked  out  into  the  sunshine,  strolled  nonchalantly  down  the 
walk,  occasionally  stopped  to  chat  with  a  friend,  and  promptly 
at  one  minute  to  three  mounted  the  steps  to  the  broadcasting 
room  to  bring  a  smile  to  thousands  of  listeners. 

IN*  one  corner  of  a  sound  stage  on  the  far  corner  of  the  lot  was 
built  the  little  broadcasting  room.    In  the  center  stood  a  small 
wicker  table  and  two  straight  backed  chairs.    Two  microph 
hung  suspended  over  the  table.     A  small  electric  light  bulb 
encased  in  wire  reposed  on  the  table.     In  Chicago,  the  theme 
song  of  their  sketch,  which  incidentally  was  the  theme  so: 
the  picture.  "The  Birth  of  a  Nation,"  made  many  years 
had  been  played.     They  were  seated  now.     Bill  Hay.  also  in 
Chicago,  had  finished  his  announcement,  and  pressed  a  tiny 
button  nearby.     Almost  instantly  the  little  bulb  on  the  table 
flashed  on  and  thev  were  off. 

The  bovs  take  all  the  parts  in  the  skit.    Amos  is  the  K 
and  Ligktnin'  who  "ies  wants  two  dollars  till  Saddy  night." 
A  ndy  is  Van  Porter  and  the  other  characters.    Tl  :rns 

being  the  dog. 

roe,  not  even  their  wives,  is  permitted  to  see  them  broad- 
cast. And  only  a  privileged  one  or  two  who  bravely  stood  their 
ground  in  the  face  of  being  literally  thrown  out.  have  been 
present  during  the  writing  of  one  of  their  skits.  And  these  one 
or  two  report  the  affair  twice  as  amusing  as  any  broadcast  and 

a  hundred  times  more  exciting. 
bort  and  plump,  the 
former  secretary  a  and 

-its  at  the  typewriter, 
tall,  blonde  and  rather 
handsome,  nervously  paces 
back  and  forth.  The  plot  takes 
form.  It's  ready  to  be  written. 
They  both  grow  excited. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE   122  ) 


A  scene  from  "Check  and 
Double  Check,"  Amos  V 
Andy's  first  picture  for  Radio. 
Kmcfish,  in  the  person  of 
Russell  Powell,  seems  to  be 
laying  down  the  law  to  the 
boys.  They,  as  is  their  wont, 
are  taking  it  calmly 


"Becka" 


"Dodo' 


"Red" 


"Coop" 


et's  Get  Familiar 


NOW  take  Greta  Garbo,  for 
instance.  If  you  were 
really  chummy  with  Greta 
do  you  know  what  you'd 
call  her?  No?  Well,  cheer  up, 
neither  do  we. 

So,  now  that  we've  disposed  of 
Garbo,  let's  go  on  with  the  story. 

All  human  beings  have  an  irre- 
sistible desire  to  tear  down  the  dignity  of  their  fellow  men  by 
tacking  nicknames  onto  them.    From  Kaiser  Bill  down — or  up 
— to  "Spike"  Mahoney,  vendor  of  illicit  liquids,  no  one  is 
exempt. 

Some  of  the  movie  stars  have  even  adopted  their  nicknames 
as  screen  names — like  "  Hoot"  Gibson. 

There's  a  story  connected  with  "Hoot."  When  "Hoot" — 
who  was  christened  Edward  R.  Gibson — was  a  youngster,  he 
and  another  boy  were  out  on  a  bicycling  jaunt.  Tire  trouble 
developed  and  they  had  to  spend  the  night  in  a  haystack.  In 
the  wee  small  hours  a  hoot-owl  let  out  a  blood-chilling  hoot  and 
the  two  kids,  thinking  the  farmer  was  after  them — ran.  They 
both  traveled  fast,  but  little  Eddie  Gibson  was  in  the  lead.  The 
other  youngster  promptly  christened  him  "Hoot." 

"  Skeets"  Gallagher  is  another  whose  nickname  became  his 
professional  name.  As  a  child  he  was  very  small  for  his  age. 
His  pals  all  called  him  "Skeeter."  This,  in  the  natural  course 
of  such  things,  became  shortened  to  "Skeet."  When  "Skeet" 
made  his  debut  in  the  talkies  Paramount  added  an  "s"  and 
rechristened  him  "Skeets." 

Kay  Francis  and  Kay  Johnson  were  both  christened  Kath- 
erine.  When  they  went  on  the  stage,  both  girls  adopted  the 
more  abbreviated  form  "Kay."  Short  names  look  better  in 
lights. 

BUSTER  KEATON'S  name  sounds  like  a  nickname,  but  isn't. 
He  hasn't  any  other.  His  parents  had  a  rough  and  tumble 
vaudeville  act  and  they  used  to  fling  their  infant  son  all  over  the 
stage.  He  was  such  a  husky  youngster  and  could  take  bumps  so 
sturdily  that  Houdini  named  him  "Buster."  And  Buster  he 
still  is. 

Constance  Talmadge  is  known  to  her  close  friends  as 
"  Dutch."  When  she  was  a  child  she  had  short,  blonde  hair  and 
looked  like  a  Dutchman.  Her  family  started  calling  her 
"Dutch." 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  most  nicknames  are  family  or  pet  names. 
That's  why  they  sound  so  silly  in  print.  For  instance — 
Florence  Eldridge  calls  husband  Fredric  March  "Lambie," 
which  is  swell  in  the  home.  But  just  you  try  hailing  Freddie  as 
"  Lambie"! 

Gertrude  Olmsted  doesn't  object  when  her  mother  and  her 
husband,  Bob  Leonard,  call  her  "  Toodie."  But  "Toodie"  from 
anyone  else  is  just  too  much  of  a  good  thing. 

You   wouldn't   think   of  acting  overly-familiar  with   Ruth 
Chatterton.     But  Ralph  Forbes,  her 
husband,  calls  her  "Rusie" — with  the 
"u"  pronounced  as  in  French.    If  you 

80 


What  you'd  call  the 

players  if  you  knew 

them  that  well! 


don't  know  your  French  vowels 
you'd  better  stick  to  plain  Ruth. 
Maybe  you'd  better,  anyway. 

Nicknames  often  spring  up  on 
the  set  during  the  making  of  pic- 
tures, and  if  they're  apt,  they're  apt 
to  cling.  Jack  Oakie  christened 
Helen  Kane  "Boop"  during  the 
making  of  "  Sweetie."  You  will  ad- 
mit it's  appropriate  for  the  original  "  boop-boop-a-doop"  girl. 
"Under  the  Tonto  Rim"  was  Dick  Arlen's  first  Western  and 
Mary  Brian's  first  time  on  a  horse.  Mary  called  Dick  "Buck" 
and  Dick  came  back  snappily  with  "Texas."  "Texas"  shrank 
to  "Tex" — and  now  Dick  and  Mary  are  "Buck"  and  "Tex." 
Some  of  the  stars,  who  have  changed  their  names  for  screen 
purposes,  still  carry  around  nicknames  that  are  survivals  of  the 
handles  which  their  families  gave  them.  In  this  class  belongs 
Evelyn  Brent  who  is  called  "Betty"  by  everyone  who  knows 
her  more  than  casually.  Her  name  used  to  be  Elizabeth  Riggs. 
Dorothy  Lee  registers  immediately  if  you  call  her  "Midge." 
She  was  christened  Marjorie  Millsap.  Ann  Harding's  given 
name  is  Dorothy.    She's  still  "Dody"  to  her  family. 

HAROLD  LLOYD'S  boyhood  nickname  figured  in  a  lawsuit 
recently.  Lloyd  was  sued  for  infringement  of  copyright  by 
the  widow  of  H.  C.  Witwer,  short  story  writer.  She  claimed  that 
Lloyd's  picture,  "The  Freshman,"  was  stolen  from  a  story  of 
her  husband's.  The  character  played  by  Lloyd  in  "  The  Fresh- 
man" was  called  "Speedy." 

Harold  explained  that  "Speedy"  had  been  his  own  nickname 
as  a  kid.  His  father  had  seen  a  play  in  which  a  character  named 
"  Speedy"  figured.  The  name  tickled  him  and  when  he  came 
home  he  greeted  his  small  son,  "Hi,  there,  Speedy!"  From 
then  on  that  was  Harold's  name. 

There  are  lots  of  others.  Regis  Toomey's  pals  call  him 
"Pat."  Gary  Cooper  used  to  be  known  as  "Cowboy  Coop" 
when  he  attended  Grinnell  College,  because  he  wore  a  ten- 
gallon  hat.  Hollywood  has  shortened  it  to  "  Coop."  Gary  has 
his  own  pet  name  for  Lupe.    He  calls  her  "Becka." 

Wallace  Beery  still  answers  to  "  Sweedie."  In  the  early  days 
of  pictures  he  made  a  series  of  comedies  in  which  he  played  a 
Swedish  maid.  Lila  Lee  smiles  if  you  call  her  "Cuddles" — her 
name  when  she  was  a  baby  star  with  the  Gus  Edwards  troupe. 

Marion  Byron  is  "Peanuts,"  because  she's  so  tiny.  Richard 
Dix  was  called  "Pete"  back  in  his  home  town,  and  Phillips 
Holmes'  chums  used  to  hail  him  as  "  Flip."  Vivian  and  Rosetta 
Duncan  have  names  for  one  another  which  their  intimates 
sometimes  use.  Rosetta  is  "Hymie"  and  Vivian  is  "Jake." 
And  Sally  Eilers  and  Marie  Prevost  call  each  other  "  Bella"  and 
"Stella."  Lois  Wilson  likes  to  be  called  "Loy."  And  Clara 
Bow  is  "Red"  to  everyone.  All  movie  fans  know  that  Joan 
Crawford  calls  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  "Dodo."  Joan's  own 
nickname  is  "Billy,"  a  hangover  from  her  chorus  girl  days. 

Mary  and  Doug  have  names  that 
sound  like  parts  of  a  boat.    Mary  calls 


D  I—T~         „"„,*       D  ~      o^^/.  sound  like  parts  ot  a  boat.    Mary  call 

By     Harriet     t  arSOnS  Doug  "Tiller;"  he  calls  her  "Hipper. 


Sby  Time  and  Tears 


Not  sorrow  alone,  but 
gro w t  h  o  f  m i  n  d  a  n  d 
spirit,  gave  Mary  Astor 
the  rich  womanliness 
that    is    hers    tod  a  y 

By  J  a  tut  French 


WINN"  Mary  Astor  spoke  on  the  screen  for  the  first  time 
in  "Ladies  Love  Brutes,"  thousands  of  fans  and  hun- 
dreds of   Holly  woodians  blinked  their  eyes  and  said, 
"What  in   the  world  has  happened   to  Mary  Astor'" 
Suddenly  a  new  and  startling  personality  had  flashed  upon  the 
screen.    The  wan  child  who  had  been  carried  away  into  the  sunset 
by  John  Barrymore  in  "Don  Juan"  was  no  longer  a  child  but  a  full- 
blown woman  with  deep  wells  of  emotion  in  her  voice. 

Everyone  discussed  Mary's  re-birth  and  they  accredited  the 
change  to  the  sudden  death  of  her  husband,  Kenneth  Hawks. 
They  said  that  the  staccato  flash  of  tragedy  had  brought  out  in 
Mary  the  hidden  beauty  of  her  nature,  that  the  death  of  her 
husband  had  given  her  the  depth  one  saw  in  her  performance  in 
'"Holiday"  and  other  films  she  made.  They  all  gloried  in  the 
courage  she  showed  at  a  time  when  most  women  would  have  bun 
prostrated  by  grief. 

The  spotlight  was  turned  upon  Mary  Astor.  the  woman,  now.  not 
Mary  Astor,  the  child. 

Because  the  sudden  gesture  is  always  the  most  dramatic  nobody 
stopped  to  analyze  the  situation.  It  was  an  interesting  though  a 
morbid — thought  that  the  crashing  together  of  two  planes  in  mid- 
air had  made  a  woman  of  Mary  Astor. 

IT  is  true  that  she  has  changed.  It  is  true  that  her  mind  is  clear 
and  true  and  brilliant.  It  is  true  that  her  heart  is  a  citadel  of 
courage.  It  is  not  true  that  all  these  things  came  to  her  because  of 
Kenneth  Hawks'  violent  death.  It  was  simply  that  which  made 
people  look  at  Mary  and  wonder. 

Tor  maturity  does  not  come  suddenly  like  love.  Maturity  is  a 
slow  and  agonizing  pro. 

It  is  necessary  to  go  back  a  little  and  consider  the  pattern  of 
Mary's  lite.  She  is  the  daughter  of  a  German  professor  named 
I.anghanke  who  saw  in  his  small,  pale  daughter  a  sure  talent.  Ami 
who  was  willing  to  give  to  her  all  the  persistence  of  his  nationality 
to  make  an  actress  of  her.  She  remembers,  as  a  child,  being  seated 
upon  a  piano  stool  and  made  to  stay  there  until  she  had  mastered 
some  difficult  Bach  fugue  or  some  light  Chopin  waltz. 

She  remembers,  also,  being  put  upon  the  hemic  talent  stag 
their  little  middle  Western  town  to  "recite"  poems.  And  she 
remembers,  too,  the  trying  years  in  Xew  York  when  her  father, 
forced  to  give  up  his  work  at  the  school,  went  with  her  from  mana- 
ger's office  to  manager's  otYice  in  an  effort  to  put  her  in  the  place  he 
felt  was  hers. 

\>  is  the  way  when  a  dominant  parent  and  a  docile  child  are  to- 
gether, Man's  life  was  ruled  by  her  father.  Langhanke  knew 
surely,  what  his  little  daughter  had.  He  was  so  determined  that 
she  must,  though  they  all  suffer  poverty,  be  a  star.  He  be:: 
directors  to  give  her  a  chance.  He  went  with  her  to  the  studios  and 
watched  over  every  test  she  made  and  when  the  breaks  began  to 
come  both  he  and  his  wife  accompanied  her  to  Hollywood  where 
she  became  the  symbol  of  the  purity  school  of  leading  women. 

She  was  so  young  then!    Whatever  [  please  turn'  Tei  page  119  ] 


Once  the  little  pastel 
heroine,  she  reveals 
an  emotional  depth  today 
that  fans  and  critics 
applaud  and  wonder  at — 
the  new  Mary  Astor 

81 


IJ/elcome  Home, 

Clara/ 


Which  Clara 
Kimball  Young  is 
who?  Bend  your 
faculties  to  the 
task  of  guessing 
which  Clara  K.  is 
of  a  decade  ago 
and  which  of  the 
present.  Give  up? 
At  the  left  is  Clara 
today — certainly 
as  lovely  as  the 
ten-years-ago 
beauty  who  looks 
down  at  the  right 


By 
Do  lores    Foster 


AT  forty,  having  spent  thou- 
sands of  dollars  on  reducing 
methods,  Clara  Kimball 
Young,  youthful  and  with  a 
beautiful  figure,  is  back  in  Holly- 
wood ready  to  return  to  "the  screen.  Never  the  flapper  type, 
even  when  she  was  at  the  height  of  her  career,  she  is  made 
more  beautiful  by  maturity.  Her  eyes  are  as  deep  and  spar- 
kling as  ever  and  her  sleek  bobbed  hair  dark  as  a  February 
night. 

She  lives  in  a  charming  little  house  in  Beverly  Hills.  She 
wears  gray  chiffon  and  lace.  She  has  the  poise  and  distinction 
of  a  woman  of  the  world. 

Since  1922,  she  has  not  appeared  on  the  screen,  with  the 
exception  of  one  independent  picture  made  in  1925.  Yet  she 
is  not  forgotten.  When  she  has  her  car  filled  with  gasoline 
or  when  she  shops  in  the  neighborhood  stores,  those  who  serve 
her  invariably  ask,  "When  are  you  coming  back  to  the  screen, 
Miss  Young?"  They  all  recognize  her — as  why  shouldn't 
they?  She  has  changed  almost  not  at  all  since  she  left  the 
screen  eight  years  ago  at  the  very  height  of  her  career. 

Will  you  ever  forget  her  in  "Eves  of  Youth,"  "Hearts  in 
Exile,"  "Camille,"  "A  Woman  of  Bronze"  and  "Trilby"? 
There  clings  to  all  these  stars,  whose  work  wrote  the  pages 
of  cinema  history,  the  perfume  of  glamor.  Clara  Kimball 
Young  retains  this  glamor. 

82 


Clara  Kimball  Young — 
fair,  slim  and  forty — 
stands  at  the  brink  of 
a  new  career  in  talkies 


Her  life  has  been  one  of  tur- 
moil. Too  frank  for  her  own  good, 
too  little  the  business  woman,  she 
found,  when  she  should  have  been 
realizing  thousands  and  thou- 
sands of  dollars  on  her  pictures, 
she  was  going  into  debt  instead. 
When  she  was  still  a  girl  in  her 
early  twenties  she  went  into  part- 
nership with  Selznick  and  her 
husband,  Jimmy  Young.  Clara 
was  to  star,  Young  to  direct, 
Selznick  to  produce.  But  taking 
direction  from  one's  own  husband 
is  a  difficult  task.  Although  they  made  some  excellent  pictures 
together,  Young  did  not  know  how  to  get  the  best  from  Clara. 
She  freezes  when  she  is  approached  tactlessly.  Suggestions 
she  will  take.  Orders  she  refuses.  It  ended  in  both  the 
professional  and  personal  partnership  being  dissolved.  She 
divorced  Young  and  formed  a  new  business  partnership  with 
Selznick. 

BUT  she  knew  nothing  of  business  and  when  her  pictures 
were,  she  discovered,  badly  managed,  she  bought  off  her 
contract  and  went  with  Harry  Garson,  who  produced  her 
films  for  years.  The  load  was  heavy.  Each  week  she  paid 
on  her  old  contract,  almost  as  much  as  she  made.  The  end 
came  in  1922. 

Suddenly  the  fans  found  that  their  favorite  was  to  be 
discovered  on  none  of  the  local  screens.  And,  while  they 
looked  for  her  in  vain,  she  was  touring  the  country  with  a 
theatrical  production  in  which  Harry  Bannister,  Ann  Hard- 
ing's husband,  was  her  leading  man. 

Then  came  years  of  vaudeville.  Tedious  years  that  ended 
suddenly  a  few  months  ago  [  please  turn  to  page  117r." 


PhOTOPI  \\    M  \..  \/ini     i  01   J  \m  \h\ 


04L 


u 


JiiXTLCOypL  /^>CCU 


entrust  their  flower-like  skin 
to  this  same  sure  care  .... 


uf-ndu  '  / ioUl alitor 


U-adu  CAucAann n  -fa ~if 


^d-adu  ^j/.putj  ^/llotmloaller 


llr,    rj~tffoiJCPin*Aotn 


^Alri.  ylnlJiem  y  y.  -Li{  \.cl  ji  . 


WHAT  is  your  taste  in  beauty:  Do  you 
prefer  the  pink  and  white  and  gold  of 
English  blondes  .  .  .  their  eyes  oflarkspur  blue 
and  skin  like  rose  leaves? 

Or  are  you  loyal  to  the  dazzling  galaxy  of 
charms  our  own  America  offers  .  .  .  blonde, 
brunette  and  Titian  beauties,  gay,  grave  or 
demure  .  . .  with  exquisite  skin  that  is  delicate 
as  apple  blossoms,  creamy  as  magnolia  bloom, 
lily-pale  or  warmly  tinted  as  a  tea-rose? 

Famous  American  and  English  beauties 
agree  in  this:  they  all  use  Pond's  .  .  .  because 
these  four  delightful  preparations  assure  the 
perfect  cleansing  and  protection  that  are  es- 
sential to  preserve  their  flower-like  skin  .  .  . 
keep  it  always  radiantly  fresh,  fine,  smooth 
and  clear. 

Mrs.  Cornelius  Vanderbilt  Jr.  declares:  "One 


can  keep  one's  skin  lovely  with  just  those  Two 
marvelous  Creams,  the  fine  Tissues  and  the 
invigorating  Tonic."  Lady  Violet  Astor  says: 
"Pond's  makes  our  skin  look  younger  and 
younger  each  year — a  wonderful  service!" 

Pond's  Method  is  so  delightfully  quick  that 
lovely  young  Lady  Buchanan-Jardine  says: 
"It  is  at  once  easy,  satisfactory,  complete." 

Piquant,  laughing  Mrs.  Gifford  Pinchot  II 
says:  "Just  the  four  steps  of  Pond's  Method, 
followed  even-  day,  will  keep  one's  skin  ex- 
quisitely smooth  and  dear." 

"Pond's  is  wonderful!"  charming  Mr*. 
Anthony  J.  Drexel,  Jr.,  sums  up  the  universal 
enthusiasm.  Lady  Mountbatten  also  is  de- 
voted to  Pond's  Method  .  .  .  you,  too,  should 
follow  the  one,  two,  three,  four  famous  steps! 


During  the  day— first,  for  thorough  cleans- 
ing, amply  apply  Pond's  Cold  Cream  over 
your  face  and  neck,  several  times  and  a'- 
after  exposure.  Pat  in  with  upward,  outward 
strokes,  waiting  to  let  the  fine  oils  sink  into 
the  pores,  and  float  the  dirt  to  the  surface. 

Second—  wipe  away  with  Pond's  Cleansing 
Tissues,  soft,  ample,  super-absorbent.  (Peach 
color  and  white.) 

Third— pat  cleansed  skin  briskly  with  Pond's 
Skin  Freshener  to  banish  oiliness,  close  and 
reduce  pores,  tone  and  firm. 

Last — smooth  on  Pond's  Vanishing  Cream 
for  powder  base,  protection,  exquisite  finish  — 
use  it  wherever  you  powder,  face,  neck, 
shoulders,  arms,  back.  Marvelously  effective 
to  keep  your  hands  soft,  white  and  unchapped 
through  the  winter. 

Send   \oi   for   Pond's  Foir  Preparations 

Povd's  Extract  Company,  Dej* 
1 1 4  Hudson  Street Sew  York  Gty 




Street- 
Cry — 


-State 


CosrrvbU  IMS.  PMO'«Extnct  ( 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  rHOTOPLAT  MAGAZTNTE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  January,  1931 


row 


OH 


95 


JOHN  BOLES,  Univer- 
sal, whose  excellent 
singing  voice  and  fine 
acting  ability  have  made 
him  one  of  the  screen's 
most  popular  stars,  tells 
you  what  he  considers 
woman's  most  priceless 
possession. 


The  caress  of  dollar-a-cake 

French  soap  for  just  1(¥ 


Kviry  advertisement  in  rilOTOrLAY  MAGAZIXE  is  guaranteed. 


PH0T0P1  \\    M  \..\/im.   i  OB   J  \m   un  .    1      1 


*5 


John  Bolt 


es  warm 


you 


.Learn  the  complexion  secret 
08X  °f  tnc  screen  stars  know 


"TV  TOWAD  AYS  no  woman  need  be 
_1_^J  afraid  of  birthdays"  fohn  Boles 
lays.  "(  harm  isn't  by  any  humus 
measured  by  years] 

"One  of  the  most  alluring  women 
I  know  is  .  .  .  Hut  it  wouldn't  be  fair 
to  tell!  No  one  would  ever  guess — 
and  she  sad  mi  red  wherever  she  goes. 

"These  days  not  only  stage  and 
screen  stars  but  hundreds  of  other 
women  have  learned  a  very  impor- 
tant secret  of  allure.  YOUTH  is  rec- 
ognized for  the  priceless  thing  it  is 
. .  .  complexions  are  kept  glowing." 

How  amazingly  the  famous  stars 


keep  youth!  Every  woman  should 
learn  their  complexion  secret! 

I.*  keep  \outh.  guard  complex* 

ion  beauty, '  they  will  tell  you.  "Keep 
your  skin  temptingly  smooth,  allur- 
ingly aglow!" 

The  actresses  famous  for  their 
charm  the  world  over  use  Lux  Toilet 
Soap,  and  have  for  years.  So  well- 
known  is  their  preference  for  this 
fragrant,  beautifully  white  soap  that 
it  is  found  in  theater  dressing  rooms 
everywhere. 

In  Hollywood,  where  605  of  the 
613  important  actresses  use  it.  Lux 


I  oilet  Soap  is  official  in  all  the  great 

dim  studios. 

Of  the  countless  st.trs  who  use 
this  white  soap,  some  have  the  fine- 
grained skin  that  is  inclined  to  dry- 
ness; some  the  skin  that  tends  to  be 
oily;  some  the  normal  in-between 
skin  .  .  .  Every  type  is  represented. 

Whatever  your  individual  type  may 
be,  you,  too,  will  find  Lux  Toilet 
Soap  the  perfect  soap—  so  neutral, 
so  bland  is  its  effect  on  the  skin. 

Order  several  takes  and  begin  to- 
day  this  gentle  care  tor  your  skin. 
Keep   priceless  youth  — indefinitely! 


LUPE  VELEZ,  Universale  effervescent  star, 
says  of  this  white,  fragrant  soap:  "Lux  Toilet 
Soap  certainly  keeps   my  skin   like   velvet." 


EVFI  1\  I  \^  I  .  CO-Starring  with  John  Hull-  in  ■  reCCfM  pic- 
ture, saw:  "Smooch,  clear  skin  is  a  woman's  greatest  charm. 
Lux  Toilet  Soap  leaves  mine  fresh  and  c-v en-textured." 


Lux  Toilet  Soap.,10* 


When  stiu  write  to  »drertl»ers  pleise  mention  ritOTOrLAT  MAGAZrXE. 


Picture   by    V i  c   D  e    P  a  u  w 


On  location  with  "The  Pet  of  the  Plains"  Company — "Say,  mister  director, 
kin  you  use  a  real  honest-to-gosh  good  cowhand?" 


Reeling  Around 


The  Dying  Gunman 

(A  popular  song  of  1957,  Heaven  forbid) 

A  darling  son  of  a  movie  fan 

Who  loved  each  screen  tunc  and  rhyme 
Ran  away  from  his  home  one  fair  spring  morn 

( it  was  about  the  time  of  "Lights  of  New  York") 

And  entered  a  life  of  sin  and  crime. 
Twenty  years  later  he  was  caught  in  a  stickup, 

A  nd  a  cop's  bullets  (bang!  bang.')  done  him  wrong. 
Then  lie  crawled  home  to  his  dear  mother's  knee 
Remembering  the  kind  care  of  his  infancy 

And  she  heard  him  sob  his  dying  song — 

Refrain 

"Sing  me  a  theme  song,  mother, 

Like  you  did  in  the  long  ago, 
When  the  talkies  were  only  whispers, 

A  nd  we  sat  by  the  old  radio — 
Sing  me  a  theme  song,  mumsy, 

And  Til  know  that  you  still  love  me  true — 
Like  7  love  you,  Woman  Disputed.' 

And  'Sins  of  the  Lathers,  I  love  you'.'" 


Into  Your  Dance ! 


Joe  Frisco,  the  stuttering  clown,  calls  the  great  crooner 
"Ruby  Valloo"  .  .  .  And  Fred  Allen,  the  electric-brained 
comic,  tells  Walter  Winchell  that  times  are  so  hard  that  auto- 
graph hounds  at  first  nights  are  only  asking  for  initials  ...  To 
which  might  be  added  the  fact  that  instead  of  albums  they're 
now  using  second-hand  confetti  .  .  .  R.  Beers  Loos,  to  con- 
tinue the  optimistic  note,  writes  in  Rob  Wagner's  Script  that 
today  there  are  hundreds  of  actors  tramping  the  streets  of 
Hollywood  who  actually  do  not  know  where  their  next  bottle 
of  pin  is  coming  from  ...  A  little  movie  house  in  New  York 
was  stuck  up  by  two  thugs  not  long  ago  and  robbed  of  S78. 
Was  it  the  week's  receipts?  Anyhow,  the  picture  then  showing 
on  its  screen  was  •'Shallow  of  the  Law!"  Shudder  that  off  .  .  . 
Sylvia,  Hollywood's  famous  masseuse,  has  written  a  new  song 
for  her  salon  called  "  I  Knead  Thee  Every  Hour"  .  .  .  Metro- 
Goldwyn-Mayer  almost  lined  up  Greta  Garbo  for  the  first 
personal  appearance  in  her  career.  She  had  even  accepted  the 
invitation  when  Garbo  discovered  that  it  was  Stockton,  Calif., 

86 


to  which  she  was  bidden,  and  not  Stockholm,  Sweden!  .  .  . 
Dorothy  Farnum,  American  film  writer,  now  making  pictures  in 
France,  has  been  offered  4,000,000  francs  to  make  two  pictures  for 
a  French  concern.  Dot  could  do  better  than  S48  right  here  at 
home!  .  .  .  Anna  May  Wong,  the  greatest  living  reason  for 
China,  is  playing  a  vamp  in  an  Edgar  Wallace  melodrama, 
"On  the  Spot,"  on  Broadway  .  .  .  After  a  look  at  Anna  in 
the  flesh,  Em  willing  to  agree  that  50,000,000  Chinese  can't 
be  Wong! 


Gag  of  the  Month  Club 

Jim  Tully  gets  the  chintz  shirt  this  month  for  the  story  of 
the  days  of  Karl  Dane's  greatness  at  Metro. 

The  big  ex-carpenter  was  reported  to  be  discontented 
with  the  size  of  his  pay-check,  and  finally  he  mustered  up 
courage  to  go  in  and  talk  dough  with  Louis  B.  Mayer,  the 
big  boss. 

Mayer  was  willing  to  dicker.  "Now,  Karl,"  he  said, 
"how  much  more  a  week  do  you  think  it  would  take  to 
keep  you  happy?"  Then  Mayer  sat  back,  gripping  his  chair 
arms  and  expecting  something  in  four  figures. 

Dane  fiddled  with  his  hat,  looked  diffidently  at  the  floor, 
and  finally,  summoning  all  his  nerve,  quavered,  "Oh, 
about  twenty-five  dollars!" 


Getting  Personal 

Mr.  Lowell  Sherman  goes  to  Hollywood  parties  wearing  a 
monocle  and  a  two-foot  cigarette  holder.  Mad  wags  say  that 
now  that  Mr.  Sherman  is  both  directing  and  acting  in  pictures 
he  even  steals  footage  from  himself  .  .  .  Mitzi  Green  recently 
celebrated  her  tenth  birthday  while  making  personal  appear- 
ances at  the  Paramount  Theater,  New  York.  Reported  Mitzi 
got  $2,000  a  week  for  that  job.  Nancy  Carroll,  the  week 
before,  had  to  struggle  along  on  a  S5.000  wage!  What  are 
these  breadlines  we  hear  of?  .  .  .  Both  Eddie  Buzzell  and  Ona 
Munson  deny  there's  a  divorce  in  prospect.  Hope  they  are 
right  .  .  .  Jean  Harlow,  the  "Hell's  Angels"  blonde,  goes  for 
spare  ribs  and  kraut  when  she's  not  on  the  diet  .  .  .  John 
McCormack  is  using  two  of  Ernest  Torrence's  songs  in  his 
concerts.  They  are  "Machree"  and  "God  Gave  Me  Flowers" 
.  .  .  Marion  Davies'  new  Paris  toggery  has  been  knocking  the 
ladies  over  at  various  Hollywood  shindigs  .  .  .  Yola  D'Avril, 
that  leetle  Franch  girl,  has  married  Edward  Wood,  composer. 
She's  twenty-two — he's  ten  years  up. 


I'll '1    W     M  \t.\/IM      I  cm     J  \M    UN 


>.  • 


m 

. .  and  on  ner  cheek       i 
there  blooms  the  radiant 

1)1  1 1  si i  o. 


Health 


Glowing  health  and  unblemished 

beauty  can  reward  those  who 

follow  the  Saline  Treatment 

TO  the  art  of  the  cosmetician,  to  the 
maker  of  fine  creams  and  lotions, 
ever)'  woman  should  bow  in  gratitude. 
For  pure  creams  and  unfailing  care  do 
much  to  clear  and  guard  your  skin. 

But  cosmetics,  however  good,  and 
creams,  however  fine,  guard  only  the 
surface  of  your  skin!  And  many  a 
woman  blames  her  creams  and  lotions 
when  the  fault  lies  in  herself — she  has 
neglected  internal  cleanliness! 

She,  then,  should  know  the  virtues  of 
the  Saline  Method  —  for  the  surest,  sim- 
plest way  to  internal  cleanliness  is  with 
Sal  Hepatica  —  the  saline  way  to  a  clear 
and  healthy  system. 

In  Europe,  well  do  women  know  the 


virtues  of  salines.  Ac  the  season's  end, 
to  Vichy,  to  Wiesbaden,  to  Aix  —  come 
the  lovely  Viennese,  the  cool  beauties  of 
England,  the  dark,  slender  women  of 
France.  There  they  drink  the  saline  wa- 
ters of  the  famous  health  springs— and 


$al  |-|epatica 


return  to  the  European  capitals  with  com- 
plexions refined,  with  bodies  revivified. 

For  years,  physicians  have  recom- 
mended the  saline  method  for  correct- 
ing acidity  and  the  long  list  of  ills 
which  come  from   faulty  elimination. 

Ids  and  acidosis,  rheumatism, h< 
aches  and  auto-intoxication  are  driven 
away.   Digestions  are  regulated.    Com- 
plexions are  cleared.   For  salines  purify 
the  bloodstream. 

Get  a  bottle  of  Sal  Hepatica  today. 
Keep  internally  clean  for  one  whole 
week.  See  how  your  complexion  takes 
on  the  radiant  clarity  of  health. 

Send  in  the  coupon  —  and  let  us  send 
you,  free,  the  booklet,  "To  Clarice  in 
Quest  of  Her  Youth"— which  explains 
the  many  benefits  of  Sal  Hepatica. 

*  •  * 

Bristol-Myers  Co..  Dept.  Gil.  "I  We<t  St  .  N  Y 

Kindly  send  me  the  free  booklet. "To  Clarice  in  quest 
of  her  youth,"  which  explains  the  many  benefits  of 
Sal  Hepatica. 

—  

Street 


Qt,- 


StmM 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  mOTOri.AY  MAGAZINE. 


The  movie  wedding 
in  "Once  in  a  Life- 
time." The  Bishop, 
who,  a  few  minutes 
before,  had  sent  out 
for  a  racing  tip-sheet, 
is  performing  the 
ceremony,  while  at 
the  right  is  Hugh 
O'Connell,  who  plays 
Dr.  Lewis,  the  vaude- 
ville dumbbell  who 
does  everything 
wrong  and  so  be- 
comes head  of  the 
Glogauer  Studios 


creen 


THE  biggest  theatrical  hit  in  New  York  is  a  satirical 
comedy  called  "Once  in  a  Lifetime."'  It  kids  Holly- 
wood. That's  the  thing  to  do  these  days — poke  fun 
at  the  making  of  movies  and  the  people  who  play  in  them. 
On  stage,  screen,  and  between  book  covers  the  jolly  work 
goes  on.  "Once  in  a  Lifetime"  is  one  of  the  funniest  shows 
ever  written.  It  was  penned  by  Moss  Hart  and  George  S. 
Kaufman,  two  writing  gentlemen  who  have  never  even  passed 
through  the  movie  capital. 

"Once  in  a  Lifetime*'  tells  of  three  small-time  vaudevillians, 
two  men  and  a  girl,  who  rush  to  Hollywood  at  the  dawn  of  the 
talkie  era  and  sell  a  voice-culture  school  to  one  of  the  big 
studios.  The  school  flops,  but  the  dumbest  of  the  trio,  by  an 
amazing  run  of  luck  and  by  doing  everything  wrong,  is  given 
complete  charge  of  the  Glogauer  Studios  by  Mr.  Glogauer, 
known  as  the  man  who  didn't  buy  the  Yitaphone. 

It's  the  thing  to  do — kid  Hollywood.  Here  are  a  few  quota- 
tions from  the  dialogue.  The  play  is  now  in  book  form,  published 
by  Farrar  and  Rinehart,  to  whom  our  thanks  are  due. 

A  chauffeur  is  talking  to  a  cigarette  girl,  a  maid,  another 
chauffeur  and  a  page  at  a  Hollywood  cafe. 

A  CHAUFFEUR — You  girls  working  this  week? 

Cigarette  Girl — No,  we  ain't. 

Another  Chauffeur — Universal's  doing  a  college  picture. 

A  Bellboy  (bounding  in) — Say,  I  hear  you  boys  are  all  set 
out  at  Universal!    French  revolution  picture. 

ChauFF]  OR     No,  they  changed  it.    It's  a  college  picture. 

Bellboy — It's  Revolution  again — they  just  changed  it  back, 
down  in  the  men's  room. 

Cigarette  Girl — Oh,  that's  good. 

Bellboy — Yeh,  on  account  of  the  sound.  They're  going  to 
be  playing  the  guillotine  all  through!  (He  strums  an  imaginary 
banjo  to  illustrate.) 

Maid     I'm  out.    I  don't  know  one  note  from  another. 

An  unidentified  man  and  an  anonymous  girl  pass  through  the 
lounge  of  the  cafe. 

The  Man — What's  the  use  of  your  meeting  him?  The  part 
isn't  your  type.    The  girl  is  eighteen  years  old,  and  a  virgin. 

88 


The  Girl — Well,  I  look  eighteen  under  lights,  and  I  can  talk 
like  a  virgin. 

Miss  Leighton,  the  information  secretary  at  the  Glogauer 
Studio,  is  talking  to  a  couple  of  actresses  who  are  trying  to 
learn  to  talk.    Their  names  are  Phyllis  and  Florabel. 

Florabel — Sixty  simple  supple  sirens,  slick  and  smiling, 
svelte  and  suave. 

Phyllis — Ain't  it  wonderful,  Miss  Leighton?  We  can  talk 
now ! 

Miss  Leighton — Really? 

Florabel — Yes,  and  a  d—  sight  better  than  most  of  them. 

Miss  Leighton — I  think  your  progression  has  been  marvel- 
ous.   I  can't  see  why  they  keep  bringing  people  from  New  York. 

Florabel — Yeh,  people  from  the  legitimate  stage,  whatever 
that  is. 

Phyllis — Yes.  we've  been  wondering  about  that;  What  the 
h —  IS  the  legitimate  stage,  anyway? 

Miss  Leighton — It's  what  Al  Jolson  used  to  be  on  before  he 
got  famous  in  pictures.  He  worked  for  some  real  estate  people 
— the  Shuberts. 

Florabel — Know  what  someone  told  me  at  a  party  the 
other  day?  They  said  John  B anymore  used  to  be  on  the 
legitimate  stage! 

Phyllis — I  heard  the  same  thing,  and  I  don't  believe  it. 

Miss  Leighton — My,  you'd  never  know  it  from  his  acting, 
would  you! 

Florabel — And  that  ain't  all.  I  heard  that  since  he's  made 
good  some  sister  of  his  is  trying  to  get  out  here. 

Miss  Leighton — Yes,  Elsie  Barrymore.  It  must  have  been 
kind  of  interesting,  the  legitimate  stage.  My  grandfather  used 
to  go  to  it.    He  was  in  the  Civil  War,  too. 

Phyllis— The  Civil  War.    Did  D.  W.  Griffith  make  that? 

Well,  that  will  give  you  a  rough  idea.  It's  a  great  show — 
don't  miss  it  if  you  come  to  New  York.  It  kids  Hollywood — 
and  that's  fashionable.  But  Hollywood  doesn't  care — it  goes 
right  on  making  entertainment  for  millions  of  people  who  don't 
care  a  hoot  what  brilliant  young  men  like  Messrs.  Hart  and 
Kaufman  think  or  write. 


l'lini.ii'i  \\    M  \  i .  \  / 1  • .  i     ink    Jam  \k\.    1       ! 


German  beauty  experts  advise 
olive  and  palm  oils 

to  keep  that  schoolgirl  complexion 


Carsten— and  others  equalh  renowned— join  vast 
group  of  more  than  20. 000  beauty  experts  the 
World  over  in  urging  daily  use  of  Palmolive. 


Carsten  says:  71  recom* 
mend  oil  my  clients  to 
use  Palmolive  Soap  at 
least  twice  a  day,  mas- 
saging its  wonderful 
lather  gently  into  the  shin 
for  a  couple  of  minutes. " 


J>  ? 


LEO CARSTEN 
Berlin  beauty  shef  on  the 
Knrfgrslrndmrn    is    quite 
the  smartest  . 

die  Europe- 


Beauty   belongs   not   to   one   race,   nor  to    one 

c:ui;t'\.     And    is    it    not    remarkable    that    the 

lovely   women  of  almost  every  civilised  nation 

find  this  one  method  of  skin  care  best' 


TFTERO   of  Bt 
hel^s  the  olive -sk 
Sfanish  beauties  I 


HOARE.t'/ 

I 

viatic  circles   ,lur-.- 

conference. 


TODAY,  despitediffcrenccs  in  type, 
lovely  women  all  over  the  world 
are  acquiring  "that  schoolgirl  com- 
plexion.'' The  fresh  colorful  English 
skin;  the  lustrous  pallor  of  the  Pari- 
sienne:  the  rich,  olive-tinted  Spanish 
and  Italian  complexion  .  .  .  each  one- 
retains  itscharaacristic  beauty  through 
a  simple  formula  recommended  by 
more  than  20,000  beauty  specialists. 

In  16  countries,  1691  cities 

"Wash  the  face  with  a  pure  soap — 
a  vegetable  oil  soap  —  and  water." 
they  11  say,  "but  not  any  soap  will  do. 
It  must  be  Palmolive!" 

If  you  should  question  this  state- 
ment, you'd  learn  some  interesting 
facts  about  the  cosmetic  value  of  olive 
and  palm  oils.  Those  are  the-  vegetable- 
oils  of  which  Palmolive  is  made,  you 
know.  They  cleanse  without  irritation. 
They  arc  mild,  gentle,  easy  on  the 
texture  of  the  skin.    Specialists  have- 


made  many  tests  with  Palmolive  and 
they  are  universally  enthusiastic. 

An  easy  method,  too 

You  massage  Palmolive  lather  into 
the  face  and  throat  until  the  impurities 
are  freed  from  the  pores.  Then  you 
rinse  it  off  with  warm  water ;  after  that 
with  cold.  And — if  you  like — an  ice 
massage  as  an  astringent.  That's  what 
you  are  advised  to  do  morning  and 
evening  by  more  than  20.000  of  the- 
world's  best  known  beauty  specialists. 
They,  don't  forget,  are  professionals. 
Their  recommendation  •  your 

attention.    Buy  a  cake  of  Palmolive 
and  try  the  facial  treatment  tonight. 
You'll  find  it  the  easiest  way  to 
that  schoolgirl  complexion. 

PUMOLIVE  RADIO  HOI ~R -Broadcast  rretr 
Wcdncsdaynight-trom  9 
time;  8.50  to  9. 30   p.   m  .  Central  • 
m..   Mountain  time:  I 

•   time -over  ^TEAF  and  39  station* 

associated  with  The         

■ 
tag  Company. 


0  (J  U  RtLlUPrut    IOC 


When  yon  write  to  adycn.sers  please  men-icn  rllOTOPLAT  MAGAZTXE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  January,  1931 
THE 


ARE        A       TRIBUTE       TO 
AMERICAN         BEAUTY 


The  American  girl  developed  today's 
standards  of  beauty:  the  rounded  slim- 
ness  of  glowing  health.  And  the  new 
styles — from  trim,  revealing  sports  togs 
to  clinging  evening  gowns — are  a  tribute 
to  that  beauty! 

Yet  even  the  most  active  girl  of  today 
must  count  calories  at  times  to  keep  the 
slenderness   so    necessary    to   look    well. 

But  unwise  dieting  may  do  far  more 
harm  than  good.  Diets  which  lack  rough- 
age (and  most  reducing  diets  do)  fre- 
quently cause  improper  elimination.  Poi- 
sons accumulate  in  the  system — causing 
pimples,  wrinkles,  sallow  skins,  headaches, 
dizziness  and  even  serious  illness. 

This  Danger  may  be  avoided  by 
simply  including  Kellogg's  All-Bran  in 
an  adequate  reducing  diet.  All-Brax 
isn't  fattening.  It  provides  the  roughage 
your  system  must  have  to  keep  clean, 
regular  and  healthy.  It  also  adds  iron, 
which  brings  color  to  the  cheeks  and 
helps  prevent  dietary  anemia. 

Try  this  pleasant  ready-to-eat  cereal 
instead  of  dangerous  pills  and  drugs. 
You'll  enjoy  the  many  ways  you  can 
serve  it:  as  a  cereal,  sprinkled  over  salads, 
cooked  into  muffins  and  breads. 

Ask  for  Kellogg's — the  original  All- 
Bran.  Recommended  by  dietitians.  In 
the  red-and-green  package.  Made  by 
Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek^, 

You'll  enjoy  Kellogg's  Slumber  Music,  broadcast  over  WJZ 
and  associated  stations  every  Sunday  evening. 


"Keep    Healthy    While    You 
Are  Dieting  to  Reduce" 

contains  helpful  counsel.  Women 
who  admire  beauty  and  fitness  and 
who  want  to  keep  figures  fashion- 
able will  find  the  suggested  menui 
and  table  of  foods  for  reducing  diets 
invaluable.    It  is  free. 


SEND      FOR      THE       BOOKLET 

"KEEP  HEALTHY  WHILE  YOU  ARE  DIETING 
TO  REDUCE." 

KELLOGG  COMPANY 
Dept.  A-l,  Battle  Creek,  Mich. 

Please  send   me   a   free  copy  of  your   booklet, 
"Keep  Healthy  While  You  Are  Dieting  to  Reduce." 

Name 

Address - 


Eiery  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  cuaranteed. 


Put  a  mischievous  Mexican  minx  in  a  Rus- 
sian role  and  this  is  the  result!  Besides 
those  sombre  eyes,  Lupe  Velez  has  acquired 
a  taste  for  tea  brewed  in  a  samovar  in 
true  Russian  fashion 


Y(  >TJ  have  all  heard  stories  of  actors  who  live  their  parts 
lpletely  that  they  can't  step  out  of  character  even 
when   they  are  away  from   the  theater     of  the  screen 
actor  who  played  Lincoln  with  such  sincerity  that  he 
continued  to  wear  the  famous  stovepipe  hat  and  little  shawl, 
and  to  affect  the  Lincoln  mannerisms  long  after  the  picture- 
had  been  completed. 

Something  of  that  sort  happened  to  Lupe  Velez  as  a  result 
of  her  work  in  the  new  Universal  talking  picture  version  of 
Count  Tolstoi's  "Resurrection,"  in  which  she  plays  the  role  of 
Katusha  M<islova. 

In  the  matter  of  food,  at  least,  the  Mexican  Lupe  went  ciis- 
tinctly  Russian.  Not  only  did  she  learn  to  like  Russian  dishes, 
but  she  managed  to  pet  hold  of  some  of  the  Inst  reap 

The  members  of  the  "  Resurrection''  cast  and  staff  were  dis- 
cussing good  food  one  day  during  a  rest  on  the  set.  The  pro- 
duction's technical  director,  a  Russian  by  birth,  offered  to  in- 
troduce Lupe  to  real  Russian  food,  and  invited  her  to  dine  at 
the  Russian-American  Club  in  Hollywood. 

Lupe  found  borschi  (Russian  soup)  and  shashlik  (Russian 
barbecued  lamb)  quite  as  palatable  as  the  more  familiar 
ckiladas  and  tamaUs  and  she  persuaded  the  chef  to  share  the 
secrets  of  these  dishes  with  her.  That  he  did  is  a  real  tribute 
to  Lupe.  chefs  usually  being  as  close-mouthed  about  their  culi- 
nary methods  as  a  Hollywood  director  with  a  new  story  i 

This  is  the  soup  recipe: 


Green  Borscht 


6  lbs.  shin  beef 
3  qts.  water 
1  cup  carrot  cubes 
1  •>  sliced  onion 


Ispice  berries 
2  celery  stalks 
1   sprig  parsley 
1   tablespoon  salt 
6  cloves  10  pepper  corns 

3  tablespoons  raw  grated  carrot 


Fry  the  vegetables  in  butter  (except  the  grated  carroO  for 
five  minutes  before  placing  in  soup  water.  Boil  all  together  for 
two  hours.  Then  add  a  can  of  spinach  and  a  tea  cup  of  rice, 
letting  spinach  and  rice  boil  in  broth  for  another  hour. 

Before  serving,  add  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  and  several 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  quarters. 


u  s  s  i  a  n 
e  c  i  p  e  s 

via 

Mexico 


Russian  Salad 

Cube  1  cup  of  cold,  cooked  carrots  and  1  cup  of  cold,  © 
potatoes,  and  add  to  1  tup  of  cold,  cooked  peas,  and  l  i 

cold,  to., kid  string  In  .-. 

Marinate  in  oil  and  vinegar,  seasoning  to  t.i~: 

lettuce  leaves  in  four  sections.    Garnish  two  with  i 

smoked  salmon;  one  with  chopped  white  of  hard  boiled  >. 
and  the  fourth  with  yolks  of  Eiard-boQi  reed  thn 

a  strainer.    1'ut  sprigs  oi  parsley  in  lines  dividing 

I        dressing,   use  6   tablespoi  un,  juice 

lemon,  1  level  t<  aspoon  ol 
Stir  thoroughly,  chill,  and  pour  over  salad  before  serving. 

Russian  Hamburg  stcak 

Mix  1'  >  lbs.  raw  chopped  meat  with  '  y  lb.  butter  or  butter 
substitute.  Add  peppei  and  salt  to  taste,  working  it  together 
with  a  wooden  spoon. 

Hour  a  board  and  turn  chopped  meat  on  it.     Divide  into 
eight  parts.     Roll  with  a  little  (lour  into  balls, 
cakes.     Beat  1  e^'j;.  add  to  it  a  teaspoon  of  olive  oil,  and  blend 
well  together.     Dip  meat  balls  into  this  mixture,  and  then 
fine  bread  crumbs. 

But  in  frying  pan  with  two  ounces  of  fat  or  olive  oil. 
three  minutes.  Turn  and  fry  three  minutes  longer.  I 
dish  garnished  with  parsley  and  water  i  .  pour  the  fol- 

lowing cream  sauce  over  the  cooked  meat  balls. 

Meat  s.iuce 

Melt  ?>  tablespoons  of  butter  in  pan  with  2  of  flour 
blended,  add  1  cup  of  white  stock  or.  if  preferred,  1  cup  tl 
cream;^  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  pepper, )  rd,  1 

poon  grated  horseradish  and  1  t>  lemon  jui 

Apple  Souffle-,  Russian  Style 
6  large  green  apples.    Stir  them  through  .-> 

mix  with  .*  tallies;  :  ir  and  1  teaspoon  l<  CD  ■■■■    -;i'  i      Half 

an  hour  ;r  ten  whites  of  egc>  into  a   foam, 

adding  3  tabli  Mix  the  apples  and  whiter 

her  thoroughly.    Place  mixture  on  a  porcelain  platter 
bake  in  oven  for  fifteen  mir. 

CAROLYN  VAN  \\  \ 


Photopi.at  Mat,  \zi\'E 
919  N.  Mxhican  Ave.,  Chicaco,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Fa- 
Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the  stars. 
I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  cube;  stamps  or  com. 


.'</ 


/^  0 


The  Fans  Are  Interested  in 
Fred 


I'ki.dric  March,  the  favorite 
hero  of  the  month,  is  a  native  of 
Racine,  Wis.,  born  August  31,  1898. 
He  stands  6  feet  tall,  weighs  170  and 
has  brown  hair  and  eyes.  Appeared 
in  many  stage  plays,  among  them 
"Tarnish"  and  "The  Royal  Fam- 
ily." Fred  made  his  movie  debut  in 
1928.  He  is  married  to  Florence  Eld- 
ridge,  stage  and  screen  actress.  His 
latest  picture  is  "The  Royal  Fam- 
ily," with  Ina  Claire  and  Mary 
Brian.  His  next  will  be  "Strictly 
Business,"  with  Claudette  Colbert. 


uestions 
Answers 


Read  This  Before  Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call  for  unduly  long  answers,  such  as  synopses 
of  plays  or  casts.  Do  not  inquire  concerning  religion,  scenario  writing, 
or  studio  employment.    Write  on  only  one  side  of  the  paper.      Sign 

your  full  name  and  address. 


They  Want  to  Know  All 
About  Dot 


Robert  Montgomery  has  a 
daughter,  born  October  13,  1930. 
She  has  been  christened  Martha 
Bryan  Montgomery. 


Casts  and  Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much  space  and  are  not  always  of  interest  to  others 
than  the  inquirer,  we  treat  such  subjects  in  a  different  way  from  other 
questions.  For  this  kind  of  information,  a  stamped,  addressed  envelope 
must  be  sent.  Address  all  inquiries  to  Questions  and  Answers,  Photo- 
play Magazine.  221  W.  57th  St..  New  York  City. 


Dorothy  Mackaill  holds  the  spotlight 
among  the  feminine  stars  this  month.  Dot 
hails  from  Hull,  England,  where  she  was  born 
March  4,  1904.  She  is  5  feet,  5;  weighs  112, 
and  has  blonde  hair  and  hazel  eyes.  Appeared 
on  the  stage  in  London  and  was  with  the  Zieg- 
feld  Follies  before  entering  pictures  in  1921. 
Divorced  from  Director  Lothar  Mendes.  Her 
splendid  performance  in  "The  Office  Wife" 
won  her  a  new  live-year  contract. 

Paul  Lukas  is  gaining  a  large  fan  following 
by  his  fine  work  in  the  falkies.  He  won  the 
public's  heart  in  "Anybody's  Woman."  He 
was  born  in  Budapest,  Hungary,  May  26, 1896. 
Is  5  feet,  2  inches  tall;  weighs  182,  has  dark 
brown  hair  and  gray  eyes,  and  is  married.  His 
latest  picture  is  "The  Right  to  Love." 

Charles  Rogers,  John  Boles,  Robert  Mont- 
gomery and  Richard  Barthelmess  all  use  their 
own  monickers  in  pictures.  Nick  Stuart's  real 
tag  is  Nicholas  Prata. 

Esther  RALSTON  was  the  beautiful  girl  who 
played  opposite  Charles  Farrell  in  "Old  Iron- 
sides." After  touring  in  vaudeville  for  several 
months,  Esther  returned  to  the  talkies  in  "The 
Southerner"  opposite  Lawrence  Tibbett. 

M  \t  rice  Chevalier  and  Warner  Baxter 
are  each  just  5  feet,  11  inches  in  height; 
Antonio  Moreno  is  one  inch  shorter. 


Kenneth  Mackenna  was  born  August  19 
1899.  In  his  hometown.  Canterbury.  X.  11..  lu 
is  known  as  Leo  Mielziner,  Jr.  Ken  is 
5  feet,  11;  weighs  170  and  has  brown 
hair  and  blue  eyes.  For  ten  years  he 
was  leading  man  in  many  stage  produc- 
tions. After  appearing  in  several  silent 
pictures  in  1924,  he  returned  to  the 
stage.  The  talkies  brought  him  back  to 
the  screen  in  192<).  His  latest  release  is 
"Sin  Takes  a  Holiday." 


Norma  Talxiadge,  Lew  Cody  and  Jack 
Mulhall  played  in  the  silent  version  of  "Within 
the  Law."  Joan  Crawford,  Kent  Douglass 
and  Robert  Armstrong  are  appearing  in  the 
talkie  version. 

Wanda  Hawley,  who  hasn't  been  in  pic- 
tures for  some  time,  is  married  to  Stuart  Wil- 
kinson. Her  first  husband  was  J.  Burton 
Hawley. 

Sharon  Lynn  was  Janet  Gaynor's  rival  in 
"Sunny  Side  Up."  Sharon  sang  "Turn  on  the 
Heat"  in  that  picture. 

Joan  Bennett  made  her  stage  debut  as  the 
ingenue  in  "Jarnegan,  "  the  play  in  which  her 
father  starred.  From  there  she  stepped  into 
the  movies  as  leading  lady  opposite  Ronald 
Colman  in  "Bulldog  Drummond."  Joan  was 
born  in  Palisades,  N.  J.,  about  19  years  ago. 
She  is  divorced  from  John  M.  Fox  and  has  one 
small  daughter.  Her  mother,  Adrienne  Morri- 
son, is  a  well-known  stage  actress. 

Chester  Morris'  latest  picture  is  "The  Bat 
Whispers."  He  has  one  son,  Brooks,  who  is 
about  2  years  old  and  a  daughter,  Cynthia, 
who  was  born  October  16,  1930. 

Lite  Yelez  was  born  in  San  Luis  Potosi.  a 
suburb  of  Mexico  City,  on  July  18,  1909.  She 
is  5  feet,  2;  weighs  112,  and  has  black  hair  and 
dark  brown  eyes.  Lupe  recently  completed 
the  talkie  version  of  "Resurrection"  which 
Dolores  Del  Rio  made  for  the  silent  screen. 


Stanley  Smith,  who  is  getting  ahead 
rapidly  in  pictures,  claims  Kansas  City, 
Mo.,  as  his  hometown  and  January  6, 
1907,  as  his  birthdate.  He  is  5  feet,  il1, 
inches  tall;  weighs  160,  and  has  blond 
hair  and  blue  eyes.  His  latest  picture 
is  "Follow  the  Leader,"  from  the  stage 
play  "  Manhattan  Mary." 

92 


TDHOTOPLAY  is  printing  a  list  of 
studio  addresses  and  the  stars 
located  at  each.  one.  Read  it,  on 
page  125,  before  writing  to  this 
department.  In  writing  to  the 
stars  for  photographs  PHOTOPLAY 
advises  you  to  enclose  twenty-five 
cents,  to  cover  the  cost  of  the  pic- 
ture and  postage. 


Dorothy  Jordan  was  born  in 
Clarksville,  Tenn.,  August  9,  1910. 
She  is  5  feet,  2;  weighs  100  pounds 
and  has  brown  hair  and  blue  eyes. 
Attended  Southwestern  University 
for  one  year  before  making  her  debut 
on  the  stage  in  musical  comedy. 
She  entered  pictures  in  January, 
1929.  Her  latest  release  is  "  Min  and 
Bill, "  with  Marie  Dressier  and  Wal- 
lace Beery  in  the  name  roles. 

Janet  Gaynor  and  Lydell  Peck  were  mar- 
ried one  year  last  September  11th. 

Monroe  Owsley  played  the  part  of  Ann 
Harding's  brother  in  "Holiday."  His  next 
picture  will  be  "Strictly  Business." 

William  Powell  is  38  years  old  and  is  6  feet 
in  altitude.  He  has  dark  brown  hair  and  gray 
eyes.  Bill  is  divorced  from  Eileen  Wilson  and 
has  one  young  son.  His  latest  picture  is 
"Ladies'  Man." 

Ralf  Harolde,  the  screen's  slick  villain, 
answers  to  the  family  tag  of  Wigger.  He  is  a 
native  of  Pittsburgh,  Penna.,  born.  May  17, 
1899.  Is  5  feet,  10;  weighs  148,  and  has  dark 
brown  hair  and  eyes.  Married  for  four  years 
to  a  non-professional.  Ralf  spent  12  years  on 
the  stage  before  he  entered  the  movies.  His 
most  recent  picture  is  "Check  and  Double 
Check"  with  Amos  V  Andy. 

Clara  Bow's  latest  picture  is  "No  Limit." 
Norman  Foster  is  her  leading  man.  Dixie  Lee, 
Stuart  Erwin  and  Harry  Green  are  in  the  cast. 

Leslie  Fenton,  after  deserting  pictures  for 
a  hike  through  Europe,  is  back  on  the  job 
again.  He  is  appearing  in  "The  Man  Who 
Came  Back." 

Barbara  Kent,  Harold  Lloyd's  leading 
lady  in  "Feet  First,"  just  reaches  4  feet,  11; 
and  weighs  103;  Ann  Harding  follows 
with  5  feet,  2;  and  106  pounds;  then 
Nancy  Carroll,  5  feet,  4;  118  pounds; 
Mary  Astor,  5  feet,  5;  120  pounds;  Alice 
Joyce  and  Hedda  Hopper,  each  5  feet.  7 
inches,  weigh  120  and  135  pounds, 
respectively. 

Gloria  Swanson  did  her  own  singing 
in  "The  Trespasser "  and  "  What  a  Wid- 
ow!" She  was  recently  divorced  from 
the  Marquis. 

Llllian  Roth  sang  "Sing  You  Sin- 
ners "  in  "  Honev. "  Other  melodies  were 
"In  My  Little  Hope  Chest,"  "I  Don't 
Need  Atmosphere"  and  "Let's  Be 
Domestic." 


Photoplay  Magaztni   tob  Jani  «y,  i     I 


What   lies    beyond    these    lips 


and    yours? 


x-^fe          ^ 

B^^bM 

}/      ** 

■  S'»»»iie'  .         ■ 

r           ^ 

^H 

**r      W 

■aBv  "'  r  ''^■fl 

1                     cus| 

B.     H[» 

J 

^k 

Bfmc«oeoccuv\     .^^jl 

H'   CA'ARRHALIS    W^^H 

^^cT^^^ 

m.       * 

50c  quality 

BACILLUS      -^H 

Lisii  i;im: 

B    INFLUCNIAE     1 

Lb            a 

Shw  Im.  <  REAM 

Nbm  25£ 

P^L 

Answer:  millions  of  GERMS  that  threaten 
colds  .  .  coughs  .  .  sore  throat 


Perhaps  you  do  not  realize  that  in  your 
mouth  —indeed  in  most  normal  mouths — 
live  millions  of  germs.  Swiftly  multiplying, 
they  strive  ever  to  cause  disease. 

Among  them  are  the  Bacillus  Influenzae 
(influenza),  Staphylococcus  Aureus  (pus), 
Micrococcus  Catarrhalis  (catarrh),  and  the 
Streptococcus  Hemolyticus,  germs  associ- 
ated with  the  common  cold. 

When  body  resistance  is  lowered  by  wet 
feet,  fatigue,  improper  diet,  or  exposure  to 
draughts  and  sudden  changes  of  tempera- 
ture, these  germs  frequently  get  the  u] 
hand.  The  common  cold,  or  sore  throat, 
which  is  a  frequent  symptom  of  a  cold, 
follows. 

Surely  you  can  appreciate  the  advan 
of  using  full  strength  Listenne  every  night 
and  morning.  Listenne,  as  you  know,  while 


delightful  and  safe  to  u 
so  powerful  that  it  kill- 
in  u-  llmg 

time  science   baa  aeon 
record 

Under  normal  co; 
health,  the  morning  and 
gargle  with  it  is  deemed  suf' 
ficient  to  keep  germs  under 
control.  When,  however,  your 
it  is  irritated. 

I 

increase  the  frequency  ot  the  gargle  to 
every  two  hours. 

■  actually  I 
the  germ  count  on  mout:  But, 

to  maintain  this  reduction  in  times  ot  i! 
frequent  gargling  is  absolutely  ne 

Always  keep  Listenne  handy  in  home 


Gargle  L 
Every  2 


and  office,  and  in  your  hand' 
vhen  yr>u  travel.   At  the 
-ymptom  of  trouK 
gle  with  it  full  sf 

that  you  may  get  its  full 
germic  i 

member  that  ! 
is   non-poisonous  and   really 
It  keeps  the 
ean,  and 
t  in- 
Js  halitosis  (unpleas- 
ant breath),  the  unforc  fault, 
Lambert   Pharmacal  Company,   St.    Louis, 
A. 

'Listerine  is  »n  ideal  antiseptic  Secause  it  is  non- 
poisonous,  healing  to  tissue,  but  laul  to  jterms. 
Fsen  the  Stapt^  loCOCCM  Av.r  -,d  Bacillus 

T>  phosus  <i\  phoid)  (terms,  used  to  test  the  pomer 
of  antiseptics,  sield  to  it  in  counts  ranging  to 
200,000.000  in  1*  seconds. 


sterine 
Hours 


LISTERINE  kills  germs  in  15  seconds 


REDUCES     MOUTI 
BACTERIA    OQ 


of 

o 


When  rou  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  rHOTOri.AY  MAGAZINE. 


News!—  Views!  —  Gossip!— of  Stars  and  Studios 


(  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  45  | 


P&A" 


SWELL,  isn't  it,  to  be  able  to  take  your  best 
friend  right  into  your  family  .  .  .  like  Bebe 
Daniels  did  with  Marie  Mosquini? 

Marie,  you  know,  just  announced  her 
betrothal  to  Dr.  Lee  DeForest,  who  invents 
sound  apparatus  and  other  scientific  gadgets 
and  hootanannies. 

Well,  the  doctor  is  Bebe's  uncle. 

And  Marie  has  for  years  been  one  of  Bebe's 
best  friends. 

So  Bebe  introduced  them  and  let  nature  take 
its  course. 

WITH  all  the  Juniors  following  papa's 
footsteps  in  pictures — young  Doug  Fair- 
banks, and  young  Wally  Beery,  and  young 
Francis  X.  Bushman,  and  all  the  others — it's 
interesting  to  record  the  feminine  side  of  the 
picture. 

Ruth  Mix,  daughter  of  Tom  Mix,  has  just 
signed  to  be  leading  lady  in  a  new  series  of 
Western  thrillers,  to  be  made  at  Universal. 

HpHE  new  baby  girl  at  the  Florence  Vidor- 
*■  Jascha  Heifetz  Park  Avenue  apartment  has 
a  name. 

It's  Josepha — named,  of  course,  for  its 
fiddling  papa. 

Heifetz,  by  the  way,  got  a  great  telegram 
from  a  friend  when  the  baby  was  born. 

"If  the  girl  has  your  good  looks  and  Flor- 
ence's musical  ability,"  said  the  wire,  "she'll 
be  a  great  child." 

T_TF.RE'S  one  of  the  best  Hollywood  stories 
*•  "^of  t he  month. 

One  of  our  younger  and  sweeter  stars  of 
silent  pictures  was  having  a  test  made  for  an 
important  talkie  role. 


Ever  see  a  prettier  pair  of  film  titles 
than  these?  For  that's  what  they 
are.  Hal  Roach  decided  the  printed 
titles  on  his  comedies  were  dull.  So 
he  hired  the  pretty  Grace  twins  to 
speak  them  out 


Her  first  line  was,  "The  wind  is  blowing 
through  the  trees." 

She  read  it  with  great  gusto,  giving  a  signif- 
icant accent  to  each  and  every  word,  making 
the  sentence  rise  and  fall  in  a  lilting  manner. 

The  director  stopped  her.  "That  is  not  a 
very  important  line,"  he  said.  "I  want  you  to 
read  it  simply  and  naturally.  Say  the  line 
exactly  as  you  would  say  it  to  me." 

She  turned  upon  him. 

"But,  Mr.  Director,"  she  pleaded,  "I'm 
going  to  put  everything  I've  got  into  that 
line.  I've  spent  several  thousands  of  dollars 
on  elocution  lessons  and  I'm  going  to  get  my 
money's  worth." 

HpHE  only  song  all  those  vaudeville  singers 
*-  who  signed  picture  contracts  know  is 
"Home,  Sweet  Home." 

Fox  has  just  bought  up  Frankie  ("Walking 
With  Susie")  Richardson's  contract  with  a 
$10,000  bank  note.  Frankie  will  sing  in 
vaudeville. 

[  PLEASE  TUBN  TO  PAGE  96  ] 


Recognize  the  tired  poloist  on  the 
left?  It's  old  Will  Rogers,  with 
Will,  Jr.,  beside  him.  Son's  team 
beat  Dad's,  eight  goals  to  six,  with 
young  Will  scoring  four  goals  to 
Pop's  one.    Anyway,  some  family! 


9k 


Photoplay  Maoazini   jok  J\m  \k\.  i     | 


95 


Everyone's  waiting  for  a  New  Serial  by 

Sinclair  Lewis 


Whose  \<>\  els  w  on  Mini  the 


Nobel  Prize  in  Literature 


«       • 


SINCLAIR  LEWIS,  whose  stories  appear  regularly  in  Cosmopolitan 


Here  it  is—/// 
Cosmopolitan 


Sinclair  Lewis,  •  I  American  to 
win  the  Nobel  Prize  in  Literature,  has  just 
written  a  light-hearted  novel  that  ranges 
from  Hollywood  to  Europe.  You  will  find 
it  where  most  good  stories  first  appear,  in 
C     mopolitan. 

The  hero  of  this  delightful  serial  is  a 
famous  boy  star.  Taken  to  Europe,  the 
idolized  but  lonely  boy  falls  in  with  a  boy 
king  as  lonely  as  he  is,  and  the  two  start 
together  on  a  quest  for  the  boyland  they 
have  mi  !.  V  u  will  follow  them  with 
huge  enjoyment.  In  this  story  Sinclair 
!  atire  is  directed  at  the  expl 

od. 

This  feature  is  only  on-  ntribu- 

!itan — 1 
Tark  I  P      •    B. 

,  Rupert  i  I  Irvin  S 

John   Held,  Jr.,  and  others  as  brilliant. 
get  them  all  :its. 

J  a  n  u  a  ry 

Hearts  International 

(osmopolitan 

Now  on  Sale 


A  Class   Magazine  with   more  than    1,700,000   Circulation 

When  :  cu  write  :c>  ad\  mention  I'HOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


News!—  Views!  —  Gossip!— of  Stars  and  Studios 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  94  ] 


XTARCELINE  DAY'S  new  boy  friend  is 
■'■''••■Arthur  Klein,  Hollywood's  most  popular 
furrier.  If  Marceline  decides  to  follow  sister 
Alice's  footsteps  altarwards  at  least  she'll 
be  assured  of  a  different  ermine  coat  for  every 
occasion. 

MRS.  JACK  DEMPSEY  doesn't 
know  what  she  can  do  about  it, 
but  it's  a  fact  that  a  new  cleaning- 
and-pressing  establishment  in  Holly- 
wood calls  itself  the  "Estelle  Tailor." 

T\  THEN  are  custard  pies  not  custard  pies? 
**  The  answer  is:  When  they're  the  kind 
that  actors  throw  into  other  actors'  faces  in 
the  movies. 

For  the  enlightenment  of  the  palpitating  fan 
public  Cal  presents  this  data: 

For  custard  pics,  the  movies  use  a  "prop" 
pie,  ((insisting  of  a  thin  crust,  lining  a  paper 
pie  plate,  the  bottom  of  which  has  been  cut 
out.    The  pie  is  filled  with  a  goo  of  flour  and 

96 


water.  If  it's  a  chocolate  pie,  the  flour-water 
mess  is  colored. 

For  chocolate  eclairs  and  cream  puffs,  a 
real  eclair  or  puff  crust  is  used,  filled  with  the 
flour-water    mixture    again. 

For  meringue,  they  use  marshmallow  whip. 

Originally,  to  make  it  not  so  tough  for  the 
recipients  of  the  pies,  the  movies  tried  whipped 
cream.  But  the  cream  didn't  stick  to  the  face 
so  well,  so  they  switched  to  the  flour-and- water 
idea,  which  is  very  much  like  paperhanger's 
paste. 

It  does  stick. 

And  Oscar,  when  you  see  a  screen  character 
gulp  down  a  lusty  drink  of  whiskey,  don't  lick 
your  chops.  It's  nothing  but  water,  colored 
with  caramel. 

WHAM,  goes  another  name! 
It  seems  M-G-M  signed  a  young  fellow 
named  Douglas  Montgomery,  who  had  been 
making  a  name  for  himself  on  the  stage. 

But  M-G-M  already  has  Robert  Mont- 
gomery, who  HAS  MADE  a  name  for  himself 
on  the  films. 

Two  Montgomerys  would  be  too  much. 

So  henceforth,  Douglas  Montgomery  will  be 
Kent  Douglass. 

"p\OROTHY  SEBASTIAN  was  talking  the 
-*— 'other  day  about  the  art  of  being  natural. 
When  Dot  first  came  to  Hollywood  they 
wanted  her  to  change  her  name  because,  they 


What  Ruth  Chatterton  wears  when 
she's  dressed  up  for  "The  Right  to 
Love."  Charm's  the  keynote  of 
this  very  simple  white  chiffon  gown, 
unadorned  save  for  the  circular 
flounces  that  spiral  on  the  skirt 


said,  it  was  too  long  to  be  put  in  electric  lights. 
"Well,"  said  Dorothy,  "I've  seen  Pauline 
Frederick's  name  in  lights  and  Richard 
Barthelmess  has  been  on  a  couple  of  the  best 
marquees.  So  we'll  just  let  the  old  name  stand 
as  is." 

"L-TOW'S  this  for  a  typical  Hollywood  story? 
■*■  -*- William  Orlamond  is  a  character  actor  who 
has  a  good  baritone  voice,  plays  the  violin  and 
speaks  five  languages. 

He  has  a  big  part  in  Mary  Pickford's  "Kiki." 
He  plays  the  stage  door  man  and  his  role  con- 
sists of  his  sitting  in  a  chair  chewing  tobacco! 

GRETA  GARBO  seen  on  the 
M-G-M  lot  wearing  a  pair  of 
dark  blue  sailor  trousers,  a  little  blue 
jacket  and  a  white  sailor  hat. 

A  XD  this  is  what  makes  nervous  wrecks  of 
■•••everybody  in  pictures.  Mary  Doran 
begged  the  company  to  make  up  some  lost 
time  on  "Remote  Control"  so  that  she  could 
be  in  New  York  at  a  certain  date. 

They  did.  Everybody  pitched  in  and  worked 
from  very  early  Sunday  morning  until  after 
midnight,  but  when  the  film  was  developed  it 
was  blank.  There  was  a  sticking  shutter  in  a 
new  camera  and  every  scene  had  to  be  done 
over  again. 

TTHE  most  enthusiastic  picture  fanatic  in  the 
*■  world  is  probably  the  one  which  June  Coll- 
yer  has. 

He's  an  old  man  in  New  York  who  had  a 
theater  eighteen  years  ago  and  now  imagines 
that  he  has  eighteen  theaters. 

He  writes  letters  to  executives  of  every  lead- 
ing studio  of  Hollywood  asking  them  to  use 
Miss  Collyer  in  motion  pictures.  He  writes 
that  he  had  a  contest  in  his  theaters  and  Miss 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  98  ] 


The  inmates  of  what  Eddie  calls  "The  Cantor  Home  for  Girls."  Eddie 
Cantor,  the  missus  and  their  five  daughters  on  the  lawn  of  their 
Beverly  Hills  home.  Left  to  right,  Marilyn,  Edna,  Eddie,  Natalie, 
Janet,  Mrs.  Cantor  and  Marjorie.  The  big  and  happy  family  have 
become  California  fans.    And  now  Eddie  wants  a  boy ! 


PHOTOPLAY    M\i.\/im 


WHEN  CAESAR  WAS  A  BOY 


T 


HE  Forum  was  t Ik*  common  market-place  for  all  of 
ancient  Rome.  Today  a  few  crumbling  columns  stand 
as  mute  reminders  of  ils  former  grandeur. 


In  our  present-day  complex  civilization,  market-places  have 
become  scattered.     It  is  no  longer  possible  t<>  \i-ii  them  all 

in  a  morning — <>r  even  in  a  day. 

Advertising,  instead,  lias  become  the  convenient  Forum  of 
modern  buyers  and  sellers.  If  yon  are  considering  the  pur- 
chase of  a  new  car,  you  scrutinize  the  automobile  adver- 
tising. Or  if  it's  a  purse,  silverware,  <>r  an  electric  clock 
that  you  want.  >ou  turn  again  to  the  advertising.  Here  is 
the  national  market-place  for  merchandise. 

Furthermore,  as  you  leaf  over  those  same  pages  of  products, 
your  mind  i^  storing  a\\a>  for  tomorrow  a  compact  and 
valuable  fund  of  information.  Instinctively,  you  will  remem- 
ber those  facts  when  you  make  your  future  purchases.  In- 
crease your  store  of  knowledge  1>\  reading  the  advertise- 
ments regularly. 


St  A 


Advertising  Jias  become  the  common    market-place  oj  this   twentieth    century 

When  rou  write  to  »dTert!sers  please  mention  rHOTOri 


News!—  Views!  —  Gossip!— of  Stars  and  Studios 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  96  J 


Collyer  won  by  a  great  majority.  He  has 
given  her  a  title,  thinking  she  would  like  one, 
"the  sweetest  girl  on  the  screen."  He  attempts 
to  plant  pictures  and  stories  about  her  in 
newspapers  in  New  York.  One  paper  in  the 
East  did  print  a  picture  of  her  and  an  an- 
nouncement that  she  had  won  the  popularity 
contest  in  the  theaters  which  never  existed. 

RICHARD    ARLKX    is   nothing   if   not   a 
grand   hubby.     Jobyna  Ralston   was  laid 
up  for  two  weeks  with  illness,  and  what  does 
Dick  do? — he  ups  and  contracts  influenza  so 
he's  laid  up  at  the  same  time. 
That's  being  a  pal,  that  is! 

AX  \  A  Q.  XILSSOX  is  with  the  old  folks  at 
home  in  Sweden! 
The  game  blonde,  crippled  for  two  years  by 
a  broken  hip  that  just  wouldn't  heal,  was  well 
enough  to  take  ship  for  a  visit  to  her  mother- 
land, with  the  love  and  good  wishes  of  Holly- 
wood. Some  fine  day,  we'll  look  for  this 
talented,  pretty  and  courageous  girl  in  pictures 
again! 

IS  there  no  end  to  this  boy's  cleverness?  Xot 
content  with  being  a  film  star,  a  writer,  and 
an  artist,  Doug  Jr.  has  just  written  some  of 
the  lyrics  for  the  songs  used  in  Lawrence 
Tibbett's  "The  Southerner."  What's  more, 
he  gets  screen  credit  for  them. 

OH  girls!  What  DO  you  think?  Rudy 
Yallee's  in  love!  Yes,  but  don't  begin  to 
whimper,  or  daddy'll  pack  you  right  to  bed 
without  your  Martini  cocktails.  It's  his  art 
that  Rudy  cares  for  in  a  great  big  way. 

The  crooner  made  this  confession  when  a 
report  hit  Broadway  again  that  he  was  en- 
gaged to  Mary  Brian.  They  went  a  few  places 
together  while  Mary  was  in  Xew  York  making 
"The  Royal  Family." 


The  haircut  that  cost  $1,500!  And  the  only  man  who  ever  made  money 
out  of  one.  Fox  wanted  John  Loder  to  play  a  German  submarine  officer 
in  "The  Seas  Beneath."  John  said  the  trick  German  haircut  would 
keep  him  out  of  work  for  two  weeks.  So  Fox  gave  him  $1,500,  John  got 
his  neck  clipped,  and  played  the  big  role! 


"Mary  and  I  are  just  good  friends,"  said 
Mr.  Vallee,  simply. 

So,  girls,  you  still  have  your  piece  of  mind. 
But  you  haven't  Rudy! 

THF.  ten  days  that  Clara  Bow  spent  making 
exteriors  for  "Xo  Limit"  were  the  busiest 
professionally  but  the  quietest  socially  she's 
ever  spent  on  or  about  the  so-called  Main  Stem. 
By  day  she  worked  like  a  nailer  under  the 


Little  Poker-Face  visits  the  place  where  people  make  money  making 
many  faces.  In  short,  Helen  Wills  Moody,  the  world's  greatest  feminine 
tennis  player,  on  a  visit  to  the  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  studios.  With 
her  is  Joan  Crawford,  who  did  much  to  make  Helen's  Hollywood 
studio  stay  both  pleasant  and  interesting 


baton  of  Director  Frank  Tuttle.  She  made 
scenes  on  the  Elevated,  in  an  Automat  res- 
taurant, in  and  about  a  house  on  Fifth  Avenue, 
and  on  Upper  Broadway  in  front  of  a  neigh- 
borhood movie  theater. 

She  tied  up  traffic  whenever  she  and  her 
cameras  appeared. 

The  funniest  crowd  was  one  of  5,000  people 
who  gathered  to  gape  as  Clara  made  scenes  on 
the  Xinth  Avenue  Elevated  platform  at  104th 
St.  Wise  boys  in  the  crowd  insisted  that  Clara 
was  going  to  do  a  swan  dive  to  the  street  a 
hundred  feet  below — and  some  insisted  she 
would  wear  a  red  silk  bathing  suit.  That  ex- 
perience was  too  much  for  Clara.  She  fainted 
from  excitement,  push  and  hard  work. 

After  hours  she  hid  in  her  hotel  and  missed 
Hollywood.  She  didn't  even  see  Harry  Rich- 
man.  And  she  went  back  to  Hollywood  happy 
as  a  kid  and  impatient  for  her  bungalow. 

WALTER  HUSTON  and   Gilda 
Gray  have   been   seen   dining 
and  dancing  places  together. 
What  would  Lincoln  say? 

THERE  was  another  stock  market  crash  in 
Xovember,  but  it  was  just  Xancy  Carroll 
visiting  the  Xew  York  Stock  Exchange. 

The  pretty  little  carrot-top  quite  upset 
routine  business. 

Trading  on  the  floor  was  suspended  momen- 
tarily, and  bulls  and  bears  alike  gave  the 
Bronx  baby  doll  a  great  big  cheer.  (Xot  a 
Bronx  cheer!) 

In  fact,  Xancy  was  forced  to  a  speech,  and 
made  a  short  one  gracefully.  .After  which  both 
bulls  and  bears  leaped  upon  the  lambs  with 
renewed  courage  and  good  cheer. 

WHEX  Chevalier  gets  back  from  France 
his  next  yarn  will  be  waiting  for  him  on 
the  Paramount  lot. 

It's  "A  Cavalier  of  the  Streets,"  written  by 
no  less  a  personage  than  the  distinguished 
Armenian  loiterer  in  Mayfair,  Mr.  Michael 
Arlen. 

Mike,  you  may  or  may  not  remember, 
had  the  younger  set  by  its  pink  ears  with  "The 
Green  Hat"  and  so  on  just  a  few  years  ago. 
Sic  transit  gloria  muudi  and  Mickey. 


08 


1  * 1 1 < > i •  >i> i  \\    M  M.\/i\y    ink    J  \-.i   un 


However!   it   h>«>k^  like  .i   fine       i 
Maurice,  and  h<-  can't  k:<-t  bach  t"  punching 
the  Paianuninl  time  i  la  k  any  too  won  i<>r  us. 

EARL  CARROLL,  the  revue  pro- 
ducer, is  trying  t>>  iign  op  Greta 
Garbo  for  one  of  his  ln^  girl-op 

No  dice,  says  Garbo.    Fat  chance, 
Earl! 

Till',  announcer  gets  >>ut  his  megaphoni 
panda   bis   barrel    cheat,   and   yella 
McLaglen  batting  for  Gory  Coop 

rhe  Strong  Boy  ol  Foi  baa  been  bustled  Into 

the   role  opposite    Mariene    Dietrich   in   her 

od   American   picture,   "Dishonored,"   t" 

be  directed  by  Joseph  Von  Sternberg    Cooper 

till  busy  m  "Fighting  Caravans,"  to  iw^ 

■t  the  nod. 

He  should  do  will,  playing  the  Russian  spy 

doing    bis   snooping    in    tin-  Austrian  army 

Dietrich,  Paramount's  hoi  potato,  i>  another 

I  he  picture  seems  to  be  a  gameoi  Hi  spj  I 

HERE'S  tin-  latest  stage-door  news  of  film 
folks: 

Colleen  Moore's  firsl  stage  play,  "On  the 

,"  closed  after  a  tew  weeks  on  the  road, 

before  it  ever  saw  the  light  of   Broadway. 

Colleen  was  said  to  be  miscast  in  it  Too  bad, 
but  there  are  other  roles,  and  we  hope  the  next 
One  is  heaped  with  butter  and  jam  for  the  little 
Colleen. 

Basil  Rathl>one,  of  the  stage,  who  has 
recently  supported  such  popular  actresses  as 
Cbatterton  and  Shearer  in  pictures,  and 
igue  Love,  are  playing  in  "A  ki  I 
Important,"  which  will  probably  be  taken  to 
Broadway  later  in  the  season. 

•With   Privileges,"  starring  Alma  Rubens, 
!  after  a  brief  run.     Twas  said  to  l>c  due 
to  the  star's  temperamental  disposition,  and 
a  little  matter  of  additional  salary. 

Oli;a  Baclanova,  former  star  of  the  Moscow- 
Art  Theater,  who  has  been  playing  in  vaude- 
ville recently,  is  planning  to  crash  Broadway 
shortly  to  be  starred  in  a  play  as  yet  unnamed. 

NORMA  SHEAR]  R— star,  voting  mother 
and   new   Academy  prize-winner— will  be 
back  at  work  when  you  read  this. 

Her   first  picture  since  the  birth  of   Irving 
Thalberg,  Jr.,  will  be  "Strangers  May  E 
Ursula    Parrott,  author  of   "The   Divorcee," 
wrote  it. 

AS  this  is  written,  exotic,  vampish.  black- 
haired  Rita  l.a  Roy  and  exotic,  vampish, 
blonde-haired  Xatalie  Moorhead  aren't  ex- 
actly speaking.  It  seems  Xatalie  replaced 
Rita  in  the  cast  of  "Hook,  Line  and  Sinker." 
the  new  comedy  opus  for  Wheeler-and-  Woolsey 
at  Radio  Pictures,  a  few  clays  after  shooting 
bewail 

"Why?"  people  asked. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  100  ] 


January- 
January 
January 
January- 
January 
January- 
January 
January' 
January 
January 
January- 
January 

January 
January 
January 

January 


January 
Birthdays 

I— Charles  Hickford.  William  Haines 
.* — Kddie  Gribbon,  .Marion  Davies 
6 — Tom  Mix,  Lorctta  Young 
8 — Alexander  Gray 
9 — Vilma  Hanky 

10— Pauline  Starke 

11— Monte  Blue,  Chester  Conklin 

\i — Kay  Francis 

14 — Bebe  Daniels 

15 — Charles  King 

16 — Harry  Carey 

17 — Nils  father,  Noah  Beery.  Patsy 
Ruth  Miller.  Grant  Withers 

18— Oliver  Hardy 

19 — Virginia  Willi 

2,>— Sally  Starr 

28 — Ernst  Lubitsch 


ow 


N 

8H 


ours  I 


ED^ 
b 


A  a  !«•  H  -  hour  Up 
coloring formulated 

O/J  4-tl  1 i  rrl y  ll  r  ti 
ri>lnr  principle.  J ii"l 
dJBCOVOTod    ill    i'uris 

by  l.diid  Wallace 
Hopper.H  uterproqf. 
M  earproof.  ln<hH- 
hle.  Ends  constant 
umaking~up.*t 


in*    Wallace    H<>i-i-i  k,    famous    stai;c 
beauty,  discovered  it  in  Paris,  A  lis 
that  banishes  all  the  smearing  and  fleeting 
life  of  present  ways  in  make-up.  An  utterly 
neta  kind  of  lipstick. 

She  sent  it  to  Hollywood,  and  it  swept 
through  the  studios  like  a  storm.  Old-time 
lipsticks  were  discarded  overn 

-Kissproof,  the  world's  largest  makers 
of  lipsticks,  has  obtained  the  formula   fl 
Mis  Hopper,  and  offers  its  amazing  results  to 
you.  A  totally  N  BW  type  of  lipstick,  different 
from  any  other  you  have  ever  tried. 

You  put  it  on  before  you  go  out.  Then  for- 
get about  it.  Six  hours,  eight  hours  later  J 
lips  are  still  naturally  lovely! 

No  more  constant  makinc-up.  No  more 
fus?  and  bother.  Do  you  wonder  that  women 
are  (locking  to  its  use? 

Utterly  NEW  Principle 
It  is  different  in  formula  and  result  from  any 
previously  known  lipstick.  It  does  what  no 
other  lipstick  does  or  has  ever  done  .  .    . 


when  you  go  out  &'»'•• 

:/  to  last  If 
;  because  the  >  »-nT  it   em- 

bodies has  never  before  been  nsed  lip- 

stick. It  holds  where  other*  smear  and  wear 
— yet  it  leaves  no  trace  of  |  •  .  u. 

Then,  too,  it  is  a  true,  Nato  Phut 

it  ends  that  artificial  smirk  women  have  tried 
(or  years  to  overcome.  A  color  that 
the  lips  to  pulic-quickening  loveliness — trust 
the  trench 

\t  hut    In     IssJk  J  "r 

Toobtain,  simply  ask  for  the  Nrw  Kissproof 
Indelible  Lipstick  (or  Lip  and  Cheek  Ro  . 

—remember  it  is  Not  the  "same"  a 
other  lipstick  known.  Don't  believe  that  just 
because  you  have  tried  Kissproof  before — 
that  you  have  tried  this  one.  You  haven't; 
this  is  Kntirkly  N 

Owing  to  tremendous  demand,  the  price  is 

as  little  as  50c — Kdna  Wallace  Hopper  paid 

'   the  original  in   Paris.  Two  forms 

at  all  toilet  counters — lipstick  and  lip  and 

cheek  ro 

Ohe  NEW 

Kissproof 

INDELIBLE  £/>stick 

(LeH  Lipstick—  Black  and  red  er.amel 
ruitel  case,  75c.  Bitch  and  g'Ad  casr . 
(Right)   Lip  and  Cheek  purse 

and  black  enamel  vanity  with 
'  >c. 
Newest  Parisian  Shades:  TkealruaL 
Natural,  Raspberry,  Orange. 


Subscribe  for 

PHOTOPLAY 


RATES 

the 

I 

■ 

t>>    .-hook,  or   postal   or  rrpreaw 

r<lor. 

I  SETHIS  COUPON 

(    \t    I  ION:  -  it»oribe  throuah 

pen 


|  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

:  K.1-P.T19N*.  Mi.hiilan  in  .   <  UK    IGO 


I   <-'.r\ 


■  herewith  %:  SO  .'  ir,  ,.| 
'    which    kindly    enter   my   »ub- 
->e  T«w. 

d     -  \r 


I  i.i    M 


Taught  by  Meyer  Both 
an  internationally 
known      art      orqaniij- 


:ransf«>rras 
ntte  theory  into  di 
Prepare    tr. 

.-  Illustrated 


orioles 

How   to   baniah    them 
A   simple,    eaie    bone   treat- 
ment— In  ye*rt'  »ure»»- 
prmetiee.      awotea    (aj*r 
Growtha)   dry   up  mod   drop 
off.    Write  for  free  Booklet. 


Meyer  Both  Co.Dect.  31. :oth«,  Michigan. Chicago. III.    WM.  DAVIS.   M.  D.  1 2VO  Grove  Ave,   Woodorvdoe.   N.  1 


When  you  write  to  idrcrtlsen  please  aunt  Ion  rnOTOTLAY  MAGAZINE. 


News  !  —Views  ! — Gossip  !  —  of  Stars  and  Studios 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  99  | 


"She  was  stealing  the  picture,"  say  Rita's 
friends. 

"She  wasn't  the  type,"  say  Wheeler-and- 
Woolsey,  laconically. 

Nice,  chummy  business,  this  movie  racket! 

CHESTER  "KING  LEER"  MOR- 
RIS is  a  daddy. 

The  newcomer's  name  is  Cynthia. 
Mamma  and   daughter  did  well, 
and  father  just  dandy. 

SEEMS  as  if  the  Haines  family 
has  given  up  Virginia  for  Holly- 
wood. Billy's  sister,  Ann,  has 
taken  a  job  at  Howard  Greer's 
shop.  She  is  acting  as  hostess. 
She  ushers  the  customers  in  and 
bids  the  mannequins  show  their 
niftiest  costumes. 

HERE'S  a  nice  little  lesson  in 
loyalty. 
Al  Jolson  owns  two  race  horses, 
Concord  and  Kildaire.  At  the 
Jamaica  races  he  figured  that  Con- 
cord didn't  have  a  chance.  So  he 
bet  on  another  horse.  Concord 
was  sore  and,  just  to  get  even, 
won  the  race. 


LEATRICE  JOY  isn't  content 
with  being  an  ornament  to  stage 
and  screen  and  being  the  mamma 
of  Leatrice,  Jr.    Oh,  no!    Not  Lea! 

Now  she's  bought  a  ten-acre 
fruit  ranch  near  Van  Nuys,  Calif., 
and  is  building  a  colonial  home  on 
the  property  to  which  she  can  re- 
treat when  the  world  gets  a  bit 
thickish. 

Want  any  dudes  on  your  ranch, 
Lea,  so  you  can  have  a  dude  ranch? 
I'll  put  on  my  new  salt  and  pepper 
suit  and  be  right  over. 

JOAN  and  Young  Doug  are  giving 
up  their  home,  "El  Jodo,"  and 
although  Joan  is  interested  in  the 
new  prospects  she  is  sad  to  leave 
since  there  is  sentiment  attached 
to  every  nail  and  board  in  that 
house. 

It  is  a  Spanish  house,  you  know, 
but  slowly  they've  been  refurnish- 
ing it  in  English  style.  They've 
just  made  a  trade  for  another  loca- 
tion and  will  build  an  English  type 
house  on  it. 

In  the  meantime,  they'll  live  in 
an  apartment. 

FRANCES  DEE  was  so  well- 
liked  by  her  Paramount  bosses 
in  the  Chevalier  picture,  "Playboy 
of  Paris,"  that  they  handed  her  a 
new  contract. 

And  what  do  we  say?  Oh,  the 
obvious  thing!     DEE-lighted! 


THERE'S  something  odious  about  a  com- 
parison. At  least  that's  what  Marlene 
Dietrich  believes.  A  young  English  news- 
paperman tells  the  story  of  his  interview  with 
the  Dietrich.  It  seems  that  in  order  to  begin 
things  pleasantly,  he  said,  "I  want  to  tell  you 
how  popular  you  are  in  London,  Miss  Dietrich. 
Your  picture  has  been  a  tremendous  success 
there.  In  fact  you're  as  well  liked  as — as — 
Greta  Garbo." 


REX    "Black    Eye"    Lease    is 
rivaling  Clara  Bow  for  break- 
ing into  the  newspapers. 

His  fiancee,  Betty  Pieice,  the 
girl  who  came  to  his  defense  so 
nobly  during  the  Vivian  Duncan 
affair,  has  broken  her  engagement  with  him. 

They're  mumbling  something  about  being 
good  friends  still. 

The  story  is  going  the  rounds  that,  at  a 
recent  party,  Rex  announced  his  engagement 
to  a  stage  star,  but  it  was  all  in  fun.  The  girl, 
however,  took  it  seriously  and  stoutly  main- 
tains that  Rex  is  engaged  to  her. 

100 


How  do  you  like  the  new  Ki\i?  This  is  the  first 
picture  of  Mary  Pickford  as  the  famous  gamin  who 
was  played  on  the  stage  by  Lenore  Ulric  and  in  a  silent 
picture  by  Norma  Talmadge.  Beside  her  is  Gloria 
Swanson,  newly  divorced  but  (or  and)  smiling.  This 
picture  was  taken  at  a  recent  conference  of  the  United 
Artists  stars 


Hearing  these  words  Marlene  burst  into 
tears  and  flew  out  of  the  room.  Nor  could  she 
be  persuaded  to  come  back  and  give  an  inter- 
view. 

Yet  in  spite  of  all  this  they  persist  in 
dressing  her  like  Garbo  on  the  screen  and 
surrounding  her  with  a  cloud  of  mystery  off 
the  screen. 


"D  Y  the  time  you  read  this  Jack  Gilbert  will 
■^be  in  Europe. 

He  and  a  writer  pal  of  his,  Willis  Goldbeck, 
went  together. 

Ina  is  in  New  York. 

The  studio  hasn't  any  stories  ready  for 
Jack  so  he'll  frolic  for  four  months  until  they 
find  some. 

Jack  has  been  on  a  terrible  nerve  strain 
since  the  talkies.    He  needs  a  big  vacation. 

f^ASTOX  GLASS,  at  thirty-two, 
^-^is  getting  married.  The  bride 
is  Lioba  Karlin,  twenty-one. 

They  met  when  both  were  ap- 
pearing in  "The  Great  Gabbo" 
under  Jim  Cruze's  direction,  and 
Jim  is  staging  the  wedding  at  his 
Flintridge  estate. 


LOVE  AND  SUCH 
THINGS— 

— The  Mesdames  Conway  Tearle 
are  suing.  Mrs.  Tearle  Xo.  2 — the 
actor's  current  wife — filed  suit 
against  Mrs.  Tearle  Xo.  1  (ex-wife 
for  $9,659.  Xo.  2  complains  that 
Xo.  1,  in  suing  Conway  for  back 
alimony,  caused  two  of  Present 
Mrs.  Tearle's  automobiles  to  be 
illegally  seized. 

— "Mickey  Xeilan  and  I  are 
very  good  friends,  even  though  we 
are  divorced,"  explained  Sarah 
Blanche  Sweet  Xeilan,  but  she 
nevertheless  wants  the  court  to 
give  her  back  her  maiden  name  of 
Blanche  Sweet.  "It's  not  that  I 
dislike  the  name,  but  it's  too 
much  trouble  to  sign  papers  with 
all  the  names,"  she  added. 

— A  girl  named  Wilma  Wyatt 
was  married  to  a  fellow  named 
Bing  Crosby,  and  it  wasn't  until 
several  days  later  that  the  public 
learned  that  Wilma  is  really  Dixie 
Lee,  the  blonde  heating  element  of 
Fox  films,  and  Bing  is  one  of  Paul 
Whiteman's  Rhythm  Boys. 

— "Xeedles and  pins;  needlesand 
pins;  when  a  man's  married,  his 
trouble  begins,"  says  an  old  nur- 
sery rhyme,  and  Dolores  Del  Rio, 
immediately  after  becoming  the 
wife  of  Art  Director  Cedric  Gib- 
bons, gets  seriously  ill  and  loses  her 
contract  with  United  Artists.  And 
a  little  while  later,  Cedric's  ex- 
wife  in  Xew  York  sues  for  S500 
back  alimony.  "I  am  very  much 
surprised,"  Cedric  says,  when  in- 
terrogated by  reporters. 


— "Lila  Lee  and  John  Farrow  to 
marry,"  say  newspaper  headlines, 
and  Hollywood  checks.  Lila  is  re- 
covering in  a  desert  sanitarium 
from  a  lung  ailment  and  the  doctors 
tell  her  she'll  be  all  okay  again  in  a 
few  months.  And  sometime  in 
1931  she'll  have  her  final  decree 
from  James  Kirkwood.  Johnny 
Farrow  is  a  young  Australian 
writer  who  has  been  evident,  successively,  with 
Lila  Lee,  Dolores  Del  Rio,  and  recently  Mau- 
reen O'Sullivan.  Xow  it's  back  to  Lila  again 
and  everybody's  happy  because  Lila's  happy. 
He's  been  visiting  her  in  the  desert. 

— Stork-wings  flap  and  a  baby  girl  is  added 
to  the  family  cast  of  Director  Henry  King. 


Photoplay  Maoazxni    rem  Jani  unr,  i     I 


i  01 


Talking  of 
Talkies 


"HFBE  surest  way  to  ruin  Qai  i  boa- 

■*■  office  star  would  be  to  circulate  tin'  report 
that  she  spends  all  bet  spare  time  at  Christian 
Endeavor  meetings."—  Robert  E.  Sherwood, 
hi  in  critic 

"T  BELIEVE  that  Future  ages  will  resurrecl 
Chaplin's   tattered   comedies   ami   study 

them  as  reverently  as  they  now  study  Italian 
primitives.  He  will  lie  spoken  of  as  people  now 
speak  of  Grimaldi,  only  his  fame  will  lie  a 
hundredfold   greater   than   Grimaldi's  because 

the  lilm  audience  is  universal."— Frederick 
Lonsdale,  English  playwright. 

"Tl'  any  former  picture  star  is  seeking  a 

v.ircer  he  must  really  earn  it  if  he  wishes  to 
be  successful  and  make  a  lasting  place  for  him- 
self upon  the  Stage.  I5ut  picture  persons  who 
have  been  stars  can't  reali/.e  all  at  once  that 
they  are  not  the  most  wonderful  creatures  in 
the  world,  after  years  of  fan  mail  and  adula- 
tion."— -Agnes  Ayres  in  Variety. 

"HpIIK  humble  opinion  of  a  high  school  girl 
revealed  in  her  sincere  fan  letter  is  more 
valuable  than  the  criticisms  of  all  the  expert  > 
put  together." — Carl  Lacmmle,  Jr.,  of  Uni- 
versal. 

"DF FORMERS,  distrusting  anything  that 
people  enjoy  so  much  as  they  do  the 
movies,  look  for  something  immoral  in  them  to 
account  for  their  popularity." — Rodney  Steel 
in  Cinema. 

'""THE  public  has  a  right  to  know  what  is 
going  on  inside  its  prisons.  If  'The  Hii; 
House'  or  any  other  amusement  film  presents 
the  problems  of  the  prison  administrator  force- 
fully, it  contributes  to  better  public  under- 
standing."— Warden  I.awes  of  Sing  Sing. 

''ALL  the  advantages  made  possible  by 
■*  *-sound  —  music,  dialogue,  effects  —  will 
have  to  be  more  judiciously  and  coherently 
tied  in  with  the  tried  and  proven  factors  in 
silent  picture  making.  Talkers  do  not  have  to 
talk  every  foot  of  their  way  merely  to  demon- 
strate that  they  are  living  up  to  their  name." — 
Maurice  Kann  of  Motion  Picture  News. 

"TSHALL  never  marry.  That  I  decided 
■*■  when  I  found  how  possessive  women  are. 
If  a  girl  would  be  as  line  a  comrade  in  marriage 
as  she  is  on  the  golf  links  or  the  tennis  court, 
marriage  would  be  a  very  agreeable  state.  But 
she  isn't.  Once  she  has  the  poor  male  at  the 
altar,  she  believes  she  owns  him  and  takes  no 
pains  to  conceal  from  him  that  conviction." — 
Eugene  O'Brien,  actor. 

"■"TALKIES  have  done  away  with  too-white 
•*■  angels  and  too-black  villains  in  our 
movies.  Xo  one  in  the  world  is  either  totally 
good  or  totally  bad.  However,  in  silent 
pictures,  characterizations  had  to  be  'pointed 
up'  so  they  could  be  easily  recognized.  In 
dialogue  pictures,  characters  can  be  played  on 
a  more  normal  basis." — Director  William  C. 
De  Mille. 


Send  Me 

To  Friends 

For  Christmas 


I  am  not  just  a  little  Christmas  card,  or  a  present  that 
turns  green  with  the  spring.  You  can't  lose  me  because  on 
the  15th  of  every  month  I  go  to  your  friend's  house  and 
say,  "Phyllis  sent  me  here  again  because  she  wants  you  to 
remember  me  all  through  the  year."  I  know  you  will  like 
me  because  everybody  does.  I  won't  allow  any  season  to 
snuff  me  out.     I  am    Santa    Claus    throughout    the  year. 

You  can't  send  a  more  economical  or  more  pleasing  gift.  Just 
make  out  a  list  of  your  friends,  attach  them  to  this  coupon, 
and  send  them  in  right  away.  You  can  send  one  or  twenty. 
There's  no  limit.  Get  your  Christmas  shopping  off  your  mind. 

To  enable  you  to  send  this  gift  subscription 
in  a  correct  and  most  attractive  way,  this 
artistic  Christmas  Card  has  been  provided, 
stating  that  Photoplay  Magazine  will 
be  sent   for  whatever  period   you   desire. 

When  you  return  coupon,  attach  a  Postal  or  Express  money  order  or  a  Check 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

919  No.  Michigan    Avenue        Dept.  CS-l-U  CHICAGO.  ILL. 

CHRISTMAS  SUBSCRIPTION  COUPON 


Year,  S2.50.    Six  months,  51.25.     Canada,  $3.00  per  year.    Foreign  Countries.  S3. SO  per  year. 


I 
I 

I    PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE.  Dept.  CS-1-31,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  m. 

I 
I 


Gentlemen:  —  Enclosed  find  $ for. 


|  Send  to — Name 

I 

|  Address , 

I 


m  —  Name . 


I     Fro 

I 

I     Address . . 


When  rou  write  to  idwrtlsers  please  mention  niOTOrLAV  MAOAZINF. 


Mitzi  Goes  Shopping 


—  and    buys 
these    outfits    for 
California    winter 


It's  our  guess  that 
lots  of  little  girls 
will  be  begging 
mother  for  a  Ro- 
man striped  dress 
"just  like  Mitzi 
Green's."  Hers  is 
striped  in  red, 
white  and  green, 
with  a  wide  bertha 
of  white  crepe 


' 


To  snare  the  eye  of  the  nice  boy  across  the 

aisle,  consider  this  swagger  red  utility  coat 

with  matching  beret.    The  coat  is  belted 

and  caped  just  like  big  sister's 


Tailored  and  neat 
for  school  wear,  yet 
feminine  enough  to 
gladden  any  girl's 
heart.  White  linen, 
patterned  in  shades 
of  blue,  with  collar 
and  cuffs  of  pleated 
organdie  and  rib- 
bon tie 


Mitzi's  party  dress 
of  white  crepe.  The 
jaunty  tie,  straight 
pleated  skirt,  and 
bright  squares  of 
embroidery  make 
this  an  unusually 
distinctive  and  at- 
tractive frock  for 
any  child 


102 


Photopi  w  m  \i.\/im   rem  J  u>n  unr,  1     1 

These  New  Peaces 

Watch  for  This    1  ach  Month 

CLAIRE  LUCE  ("Up  the  River,"  Fox)  ii  one  of  Mr  Ziegfeld'a  most  distill 
guished  blonde  graduates.    Claire  was  the  Hw Tiling  little  ^irl  who 
^u  '  led  the  feather  fan  and  danced  in  "  I  be  Follies."    Turning  t" 

s$*  **  drama,  ahe  scored  in  "  Burlesque"  in  London.    Claire  is  twent) 

~+  a  three,  five  feel  three,  and  bappfly  married  to  Clifford  Warren 

Smith,  a  vurry  rich  young  man. 


IO' 


SPENCER  TRACY  ("Up  the  River,"  Fox)  is  another  stage  boy  who's  clicked 
ily  in  talkies,  Born  in  Milwaukee  in  1900,  Spencer  studied 
for  the  stage,  and  scored  his  greatest  bit  in  "  ["he  Last  Mile,"  the 
sensational  prison  plaj  whose  cast  be  left  in  mid-run  to  join  up 

^^      .  ~J  with  Fox.    Tracy  is  married  to  Louise  Treadwell,  and  i>  the 

MJ^^_ '  daddy  of  a  five  year-old  son. 

GENEVIEVE   TOBIN  ("A  Lady  Surrenders,"  Universal)  has  been  for  some 
M*   ^pnv  years  a   well  known  leading  woman   in   the  theater,   her  i 

tM  dating  back  to  "Little  Old   New  York."      Her  sister  is  Vivian 

T        ^^f  Tobin,  an  actress  of  equal  rank  and  note.    Genevieve  is  small  and 

blonde.     Her  last  New  York  stage  appearance  was  a  trip  into 
musical  comedv  in  "Fifty  Million  Frenchmen." 


HUMPHREY  BOGART   ("Up  the  River."  Fox-  is  a  New  York  boy  who 
has  been  a  stage  juvenile  for  several  years,  playing  in  set 
shows- many    hits,    such    SS    "Meet    the    Wife," 
Children,"  and   "It's  8   Wise   Child."      He's  thirty  years  old 
Bogart   was  once   the  husband  of   Helen    Menken.      He's  now 
married  to  Mary  Phillips,  also  a  well  known  actr. 

DOROTH\  CHRISTY  ("Playboy  of  Paris."  Paramount)  is  another  glori 
Bed  Ziegfeld  graduate,  and  has  appeared  in  other  musical  shows. 
She  was  born  in  Reading,  Penna..  and  educated  there  and  at 
finishing  schools.   Dorothy  is  tall  and  blonde.  ned  her  for 

a  role  in  "So  This  Is  London,"  after  seeing  her  in  support  of 
Marjorie  Rambeau  in  Los  Angeles. 

MONROE    OWSLEY   ("Holiday."  Pathe)  is  a  Georgia  boy  who  started  in 
the  newspaper  business.    After  a  year  on  the  Philadelphia  PiMit 

,  r  he  went  on  the  stage,  and  played  in  stock.  He  made  bis 
Broadway  debut  in  "Young  Blood,"  and  later  played  the  role 
in  "  Holiday"  that  he  was  soon  to  do  on  the  screen.  Since  then 
he's  done  three  more  talkies. 

GENEVA  MITCHELL  ("Her  Wedding  Night,"  Paramount)  is  still  another 

who  began  as  a  chorister  in  Ziegfeld's  girl  opera.     Later  she  be- 
came a  specialty  dancer,  and  still  later  was  Leon  Errol's  leading 
woman  in   "Louie   the   Fourteenth"  on   tour.     She   made   her 
^>    f\  picture  debut  with  Charles  Rogers  in  "Safety  in  Numbers" — 

playing  one  of  the  numbers. 

JAMES  CAGNEY  ("The  Doorway  to  Hell."  Warners'  is  another  New  York 
stage  product  who  shows  definite  talent  in  talkies.  When  Cagney 
finished  at  Columbia  University  he  went  into  the  theater,  ap- 
pearing in  musical  comedy  and  later  "Outside  Looking  In." 
"Women  Go  On  Forever."  and  "Maggie  the  Magnificent." 
^«^__^fc^.  Whereupon  Warners  took  him  for  pictures. 


(   IIKIKL 

I  lie  bcdulii 

OF      YOUR 

lunula 


USE  THIS 

cleaft  mode  in  lotion 

DRIES    QUICKLY 
...IS  NOT  STICKY  OR  GREASY 

Its    to    cny    to    keep    vour    li.iinL 

and  AKm  toft,  white  and  moots, 

free  from  roujnniu  ami  tlio  toll- 
tale  sign  ■.  "'  1  i  <  > 1 1  ■  •  ■  v.  < . t  U.  .md  ii tli i  e 
* «  With  Chamber  lain  (  Hand 
Lotion.  This  sparkling  liquid  re- 
quirei  no  botaei  omc  mxnajc  but 

penetrate*     quickly     and     dnei 
■IsMMl     instantly.     UlOtCCtlOg    the 
pOrOf     like     an    "invmldr    gh" 
Youll     like    (    hamherlain  i    I 
CMIM  it  II  not  at  all  tin  ky .  great  y 
or  gummv.    Anil    it   Ml   a  delight- 
ful   orange   Dip— OH1    Iragrant  r.     I 
reveal  and  preserve  tbr  !■• 

;r  bands  and  skin,  me  but  a 
few  drops,  regularly .  It  s  I  splen- 
did  powder  b.Kf.  50c  and  51  at 
drug  and  department  store*. 


Or.  send  four  cents  in  stirnps  to 
coser  muling  costs  »nd  we'll 
plidlv  send  our  purse  si.-c  1 
week's  suppb  FREE.  Ad 
Depirtment  si.Chirnberlain 
Laboratories,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 

Chambenairis 

HAND  LOTIOS 

'6Jhe  1  tumble  Qloze 


I 


n 

A. 


When  jcu  write  :o  a  .<«  mention  rilOTOrr.AT  MAGAZINE. 


Chatterton  and  Barry  more  Lead  the  Screen  in  1930 


1  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  39 


Btandingly  good  and  there  is  no  tried  and  true 
trouper  in  Hollywood  who  is  in  more  constant 
demand. 

Some  of  these  two-best  boys  are  hundred  per 
centers,  notably  Messrs.  Arliss,  Gilbert,  Col- 
man  and  Sills.  Gilbert,  after  a  bad  start  in 
1929,  came  back  with  two  good  shows  in  the 
fussed-over  "Redemption"  and  "Way  for  a 
Sailor."  It  seems  certain  that  Jack  has  been 
consistently  underrated  as  an  actor.  In  the 
silent  days  his  activities  as  a  screen  lover  stole 
the  show  from  his  actual  trouping  ability,  and 
during  his  sad  talkie  debut  the  deficiencies  of 
his  speaking  voice  were  tragically  over- 
estimated. 

TTHIS  two-bests  list  gives  one  of  the  keys  to 
-^  why  the  men  have  stolen  the  1930  show 
from  their  sisters  under  the  grease-paint. 

It  is  probable  that  in  the  history  of  pictures 
no  year  was  ever  so  productive  of  able  male 
recruits — most  of  them,  of  course,  from  the 
training  ground  of  the  theater. 

Montgomery,  Morris,  March,  Bickford  — 
probably  the  four  fastest  comers.  In  Chevalier 
we  gained  a  new  demi-god. 

Colman,  under  the  microphone,  has  hit  a  new 
record  high. 

Young  Ayres  arrived,  via  a  jazz  band,  as  an 
exceptionally  appealing  juvenile. 

Show  me  the  woman  who  doesn't  want  to 
mother  the  boy! 

Add  to  this  influx  the  fact  that  the  great 
majority  of  the  year's  best  stories  were  aimed 
dead  at  the  trousered  sex  and  you  have  the 
answer  to  the  male  domination  of  the  year's 
record. 

Gangster,  war  and  prison  pieces  were 
decidedly  "in"  all  year,  and  the  rebirth  of 
Westerns  with  sound  wave  gave  the  noble  cow- 
boys and  the  gay  caballeros  a  shot.  Air 
pictures  were  good,  too. 

A  ND  it  seems  to  me  to  be  an  irrefutable  fact 
■**-that  the  raging  microphone  is  much  easier 
on  the  voices  of  men  than  on  the  shriller,  reedier 
notes  of  the  sisters. 

Which  is,  of  course,  a  matter  for  report  by 
the  sound  engineers. 


We  must  consider,  too,  that  the  talkies 
knocked  off  many  of  the  goddesses  of  the  silent 
days  who  were  without  sound  voice  training 
and  practice  in  general  stage  deportment. 
When  the  screen  let  out  a  howl  it  was  fatal  to 
many  synthetic  stars,  beauty  contest  winners, 
mere  pretty  girls  at  a  dime  a  dozen  and  all 
those  ladies  whose  screen  pre-eminence  rested 
on  nothing  more  substantial  than  some  training 
in  the  elements  of  pantomime. 

Fate  so  willed  that  most  of  the  male  actors  of 
the  old  era  had  some  grounding  in  the  art  of  the 
stage,  while  a  far  smaller  percentage  of  the 
frail  sex  were  so  fitted  as  to  withstand  the 
shock  of  the  new  deal.  Many  a  lady  got  by  on 
glamour,  while  the  gentlemen,  alas,  wereforced 
to  know  something  about  the  business  of  act- 
ing. 

Thus,  when  the  cyclone  struck,  they  lived. 
The  pretty  faces,  many  of  them,  were  blown 
into  oblivion  and  points  South. 

In  mulling  over  the  176  best  performances 
listed  in  Photoplay,  I  find  that  no  less  than 
eighty-seven — or  one  less  than  half  the  total — 
were  given  by  men  and  women  who  have  come 
to  pictures  since  the  dawn  of  talkies — namely, 
and  roughly  speaking,  the  year  1927! 

Thus,  in  three  years,  the  cohorts  of  the  stage 
have  drawn  equal,  in  performance  of  their 
duty,  to  the  hosts  of  the  elder  screen,  which  has 
been  coaching  and  projecting  its  people  for 
twenty  years. 

TN  short,  it  is  now  practically  an  even  break 
•^■between  the  newcomers  and  the  old  guard, 
which  never  surrenders. 

This  is  another  way  of  saying  that  Holly- 
wood's needed,  great — and  often  tragic — weed- 
ing out  process  has  been  completed.  The  sheep 
have  now  been  separated  from  the  goats.  The 
screen's  talents  have  been  weighed  and  assayed, 
and  the  unfit  have  been  forced  into  retirement 
or  to  other  fields  of  endeavor.  It  had  to  be  so 
— and  it  was! 

And  it  must  be  added  that  in  these  three 
years  the  fears,  dislikes  and  inferiority  com- 
plexes that  made  Hollywood  an  armed  town  in 
1928  have  all  been  dissipated.  Those  of  the 
stage  and  those  of  the  screen  are  now  one  big 


camp  making  talkies  and  mining  gold — and  if 
any  knives  flash  in  the  California  sun,  they 
come  out  in  matters  that  are  purely  personal, 
whether  social  or  business. 

So  far,  I  have  spoken  by  the  book,  making 
deductions  and  drawing  conclusions  from  the 
written  record  of  twelve  months  in  the  cinema 
trenches.  Such  are  the  chief  uses  of  prosy 
statistics. 

I  hope  I  may  now  be  permitted,  from  a  close 
study  of  the  screen  activities  of  the  year  now 
closing,  to  express  an  opinion  that  is  buttressed 
by  facts. 

It  is  my  settled  notion  that  the  outstanding 
advance  of  the  year,  in  the  acting  line,  was 
scored  by  Norma  Shearer. 

C~\lTR  four-star  beauties,  Chatterton  and 
^'Barrymore,  came  to  the  speaking  screen 
fortified  with  years  of  stage  experience — their 
voices  trained  and  pitched,  their  deportment 
while  in  full  cry  settled  and  sure  by  virtue  of 
years  of  practice  of  their  profession. 

La  Belle  Shearer,  on  the  other  hand,  was  a 
program  star  of  the  purest  motion  picture 
stripe,  and  certainly  not  the  leading  panto- 
mimist  in  films. 

Faced  with  the  problem  of  root  or  die, 
Norma  chose  to  root. 

By  means  of  stupendous  labors  with  voice 
and  lines,  she  rose  in  one  brief  year  to  the  status 
of  a  high  comedy  star  whose  abilities  any  older 
trouper  might  well  envy. 

In  "Let  Us  Be  Gay"  she  stood  shoulder  to 
shoulder  with  one  other  veteran  of  the  lots, 
Rod  La  Rocque,  and  played  a  brilliant  cast  of 
stage  actors  quite  off  its  feet.  If  there's  an 
extra  large  mess  of  bays  and  laurels  lying 
about,  I  vote  that  they  be  passed  to  Mile. 
Shearer,  with  three  loud  hochs  and  a  couple  of 
Bengal  tigers. 

WE  feel  that  this  magazine's  list  of  best  per- 
formances is,  in  the  main,  a  very  sound 
and  admirable  compilation.  The  conclusions 
here  drawn  are  not  only  accurate,  speaking 
strictly  by  the  book,  but  significant  of  what 
happened  in  screendom  in  1930 — the  year  that 
saw  the  talkies  come  of  age. 


Mr.  Brook  Hates  Tea 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  77 


high-hattedness.  It  isn't.  It's  not  a  pose, 
either.  It's  simply  Give  Brook — a  combina- 
tion of  his  natural  reserve  and  his  own  in- 
tellectual leanings.  Physically,  he  goes  for 
tennis  and  golf  and  a  bit  of  swimming.  He 
hates  these  hard  American  tennis  courts — 
lawn  courts  are  his  favorite. 

AND  he  hates  people  who  wear  colors  when 
playing  tennis. 

"Tennis  should  be  played  in  white."  he  says, 
and  gets  really  worked  up  about  it — far  more 
than  the  subject  calls  for.  That's  one  of  the 
peculiar  traits  about  the  man — one  of  his  very 
few  idiosyncrasies. 

He  can  get  more  wrought  up  arguing  about 
the  proper  clothes  for  tennis  than  he  can  about 
really  important  matters. 

Another  thing  that  distresses  him  is  sloppy 
women.  One  of  his  pet  aversions  is  a  woman 
who  doesn't  keep  her  hair  well  dressed.  And 
he's  a  keen  critic  on  women's  clothes.  He 
couldn't  design  a  dress  if  his  life  depended  on 
it,  and  he  can't  name  most  of  the  colors  or 
materials  women  wear. 


Yet  he  can  tell  what's  wrong  with  a  woman's 
costume  at  a  glance — and  can  constructively 
criticise  so  that  she  can  correct  it. 

He  remembers  a  woman's  clothes  and  re- 
marks about  it  to  her  afterward.  They  adore 
him  for  it. 

One  interviewer  who  wore  a  lovely  diamond 
ring  on  her  left  hand  came  away  raving. 

"He  asked  about  my  ring  and  told  me  it 
was  a  lovely  engagement  ring,"  she  gushed. 
"He's  the  first  man  in  Hollywood  who  ever 
even  noticed  it!" 

He's  typically  British  in  many  ways,  of 
course. 

Yet  his  accent  is  not  too  British.  His 
friends  —  the  intimate  ones  —  constitute  a 
British  clique  in  Hollywood. 

Ernest  Torrence  and  Ronald  Colman  are 
among  them.  But  he  hasn't  many  intimates 
among  the  players. 

1— TE  doesn't  care  for  the  social  round  that 
*■  -^-characterizes  the  ordinary  motion  picture 
actor's  life — so  he  stays  away  from  them  and 
it. 


In  dress,  he's  paradoxical.  His  clothes  are 
of  the  best,  yet  he  could  by  no  means  be  called 
the  typical  "well-dressed  man."  He  likes 
above  all  to  be  comfortable. 

And  yet,  he  can  wear  a  dress  suit  better  than 
any  other  man  in  Hollywood — even  Colman! 

For  smoking,  he  likes  a  pipe.  He  smokes 
cigars  and  cigarettes,  too.  Strange,  but  one 
of  the  excessively  few  "sloppy"  traits  about 
the  man  is  that,  now  and  then,  he'll  let  a 
cigarette  or  cigar  stub  hang  from  his  lower 
lip. 

"~DUT  even  so,  lie  still  does  it  like  a  gentle- 
^man,"  swears  a  feminine  admirer.    And  if 
you  can  figure  that  out,  go  ahead. 

The  man's  background  finds  him  born  into 
a  well-to-do  English  family.  He  studied  law 
at  Dulwich  College.  His  father  had  invest- 
ments in  South  African  mines,  and  the  war 
rather  tightened  things  for  the  family.  So 
Brook  took  a  secretarial  job  at  a  club,  and 
through  acquaintances,  became  interested  in 
theatricals. 

That  was  why,  when  he  enlisted,  he  signed 


10>> 


l'ii< -i  11    M\c\/im    ink   Jam  \k\.    1      1 


[05 


irivatc  with  thi 
infantry  company  made  up  « >f  irrib 

artists       He  CUM  OUt    "I    the  war  a   major   in 

the  machine  gun  servict    thclt-ahocked      So 
badly  shocked,  in  (act,  thai  during  the  last 

■  ■f  the  war  be  was  invalided  borne  .mil 
I  in  training  campi  teaching  new  recruit* 
Low  to  do  it 

Tin-  shell  iht*  k.  --till  is  with  him 
It  manifests  itself  in  Ins  inabiht)  to  remem- 
ber names 

II.  even  forgot  Charlie  Chaplin's  name  once 

uluii  be  wai  toaatmaatei  at  s  dinner  I     Hut 

i >« >< I>  in  Hollywood  knows  about  it,  and 

forgive  him. 

About   mosl    things,    Itrook.   is  temperate 

persons,  In-  forms  violent  likes  <>r 

1'here's   never  any   hall  way.      Hut 

tlu-  persona  never  know  which  it  is,  because 


with  that   typical  t. 

makes  everyone   think:  likes 

ini 

Hi    is   out  tandingly   kind      Hi    has   the 
quality  <>f  kind  d,ly  than 

other  people 

••  \  mi  i  .ml 

or  doing  an  unkindor<  vnical  thing,"  i-  th 
his  ai  quaintam  es  put  it 

l ..  beginners  in  ai  i  Ipful  and 

kind  alwa 

N  oung  mil  n 
In    pre*  n> e,  find  ti  i  itting 

b\   while  Hrni.k  in l 
edification 

N  oung  i >la yi  rs  find  him  ever  read)  to  aid  in 

whatever  way  he  i  an 

Ami    here's    .m    i~l.l    thing      although    he's 

Rnglish,  lie  poaitivi  teal 


Hollywood's  Only  Contented  Man 

\  n\i  in  FROM  PAC] 


•  he  worked  for  a  director,  a  big 
in  the  industry,  whom  hedrovcdaily  past 
my  house.  The  director  would  snort  some- 
times, when  they  would  see  me  about,  reading 
or  in  the  garden,  ami  say,  'That  Kerrigan  is 
crazy;  passing  his  life  that  way.  when  he  could 
1  t  making  money  and  having  a  good  time 

in  the  world.' 

"  lie  spent  his  money  winning  and  dining  and 
partying  around. 

"just  the  other  day,  the  chauffeur  tells  me, 
he  met  him  walking  along  the  same  road  to 
work,  past  my  house.  He  is  working  as  an 
extra  man  now. 

Say,  you  know,  I  guess  it  was  me,  and  not 
Kerrigan,  that  was  cra/.y,"  he  said." 


Warren    Kerrigan    has   what    all    Hollywood 

dreams  of  having  some  day,  but  is  tin,  busy, 

too  gold  mad.  too  vain,  to  Stop  and  enjoy. 
Kerrigan  sits  on  his  porch  not  a  patio,  mindi 
and  watches  the  changing  procession  go  by. 

"My  mind  to  mc  a  kingdon 

Wherein  such  pleasant  things  I  find — " 

He's  the  contented  sage  of  Happy  Valley 
(the  old  pre-real  estate  name  for  that  part  Of 
Whitley  Heights  that  same  valley  that  holds 
the  deserted  homes  where  Rudolph  Valentino 
and  Barbara  LaMarr  spent  youth,  talent, 
money,  love  and  even  life,  with  lavish  hand. 
and  did  not  get  what  he  has — contentmentl 


The  men  behind  the  camera.  The  Head  Boys  watching  preparations  made 
for  a  scene  for  Paramount's  "Fighting  Caravans,"  starring  Gary  Cooper  and 
Lily  Damita.  Left  to  right  they  are  Otto  Brower,  co-director;  Charles 
Barton,  assistant  director;  Warren  Lynch,  second  cameraman;  Lee 
Garmes,  first  cameraman,  and  Bill  Shea,  film  editor 


the  wind  blow! 

Keep  your  hair  neat 
with  HOLD-BOBS 


Season 
i  aiasl 

ig  in  yc 

I  your 


WINTER  SPORTS—- 
ot  viul.ty-ot  §io» 
of  unruly,  straggl.  .■ 

Your    bcrct   won  t  hold  the« 
hairpins. 

Only  HOLD-908S  can  fasten  thou  loose  ends 
securely.  Their  fle«ible  s>des  skac>e  to  ,cjr  head,  and 
one  side  is  crimDcd— preventing  their  lallmg  out. 

Whether  your  hair  is  long,  short,  or  grov.  R|  —  it 
will  look  neat  and  well-arranged  under  your  sports 
cap-if  you  use  HOLD-BOBS. 

Because  of  their  smooth, round  points. you'll  nevtr 
feel  them  in  your  hair.  The  small. round,  in*,  si* 
do  not  show,  vet  you'll  b  for  uSe 

sharp  wind,  which  blows  roses  into  your  cht.- 
not  succeed  in  pulling  your  hair  loose.  Be  neat.  Be 
smart.  Be  chic  for  sports.  Use  HOLD-BOBS. 

Look  for  distinctive  gold  and  silver  metal  foil  cards. 
On  sale  everywhere.  Send  Icr  a  I'ee  supply  of  HOLD- 
BOBS  and  booklet  on  Modern  Hair  C  - 

THE  HUMP  HAIRPIN  MFG.  COMPANY 

(Division  cf  CKan  Store  Products  Corpora- 
Sol.  H.  Goldbar,.  President 
1918-36   Prairie    Avenue.   Dcpt.   171.  Chicoto.   ML 


sold  under         II  BSK»i 

the  lollow- 

i  ng  r  • 

80B-ETTES 

CLIP-PER-    . 

ETTES         /j 

LOX-THE-" 

LOCKS       // 

f, 

f    THE  HUMP  HAIRPIN 
/.      MANUFACTURING  CO. 
'0     Dept.  171,  Chieojo.  Illinois 

Please  se"d  me  the  bock'e:  on  Modt'n  Hair  Culture 
and  latest  Ivairdrcss  styles  and  sample  package  ot  parts. 

Name- 

Address 

City State 

□  Bsossfk  ■'•• 


When  j-ou  writ*  to  sorertisete  please  —1100  PHOTOPLAY  USGXZISX. 


Cut  Picture  Puzzle  Contest  Winners 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  58  | 


as  I  am  anxious  that  they  should  learn  music 
along  with  their  school  education.  This  would 
be  an  excellent  start  for  them.  I  have  always 
been  fond  of  and  interested  in  the  screen's 
actors  and  actresses  who  bring  such  great  re- 
creation to  all. 


"  This  is  my  second  try  at  the  contest,  as  I  do 
not  believe  in  giving  up." 

"PHOTOPLAY  extends  to  the  seventy  winners 
■*-  its  heartiest  congratulations.  The  $5,000  in 
cash  prizes  will  be  in  their  hands  in  ample  time 


to  help  make  a  bright  and  merry  Christmas. 

And  to  those  who  did  not  win,  we  say,  try 
again  next  year. 

Some  who  failed  before  were  rewarded  this 
year  with  capital  prizes.  Your  luck  may 
change,  too! 


Additional    Prize   Winners 


FIFTY  DOLLAR  PRIZES 

Felix  the  Cat 

Annetta  Krafsic 

1136  Mallory,  Portland,  Oregon 

Hand  Painted  Screen 

Mrs.  A.  L.  Skells 

1155  Hyperion  Avenue,  Hollywood,  California 

Photoplay's  Golden  Lights 

Mrs.  Helex  Spears 

817  North  Main  Street,  Mitchell,  S.  D. 

Star  Gazing 

Mrs.  Herbert  S.  Ktjntz 

1512  Virginia  Blvd.,  San  Antonio,  Texas 

Stars  of  the  Sea 

May  E.  Wellington- 

6626  39th  S.  W.,  Seattle,  Washington 

Silver  Star 

Henry  Gruber 

4366  Maryland,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Photoplay  Theater 

Mrs.  R.  R.  Beezley 

c/o  Judge  C.  G.  Revelle 

7201  Maryland,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Mailman 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Ruplix 

1222  Madison  St.,  La  Crosse,  Wisconsin 

Hollywoodland 

Johx  J.  Gold,  Ph.  G. 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Office  Girl 

Miss  Katherixe  Stoll 

1224  Riverside  Avenue,  Spokane,  Washington 

Miniature  Studio 
Pail  Follow 
241  Highland  Ave.,  Somerville,  Mass. 

Tune  in  on  Filmland  Thru  Photoplay 

Frederick  E.  Beaumont 
401  Farm  Street,  Xew  Bedford,  Mass. 

Screen  Stars 
Harold  J.  Plerxer 
Jefferson,  Wisconsin 


Book  of  Jewels 

Michael  Kampel 
2920  Madison  Road,  Cincinnati,  Ohio 

Artist's  Dream  Pallet  of  Beauty 

Miss  Adriexxe  Cadoul 

Rm.  846,  Monadnock  Bldg.,  San  Francisco, 

California 

Photoplay  Tlieater 

Leonard  F.  Bollixger 
416  California  St.,  Sycamore,  Illinois 

Photoplay's  1930  Rroicw  of  the  Stars 

Thomas  Prince 
733  Lawton  Place,  Ft.  Wayne,  Indiana 

Photoplay's  Stars  of  the  Silver  Screen 

Mrs.  Merrill  E.  Hortox 

726  Newhall  Street,  Apt.  1,  Milwaukee, 

Wisconsin 

Photoplay  Stage 

Mrs.  Harry  A.  Swartz 

22  West  Gregson  Avenue,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Totem  Pole 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Van  Pelt 

Marion,  Kentucky 

Photoplay  with  Stars  Representing  Parts  Played 
in  Recent  Pictures 

Charles  J.  W.  Floyd 

6068  Kingsessing  Avenue,  Philadelphia, 

Pennsylvania 

Photoplay's  Art  Gallery 

Miss  Maxixe  Fisher 

13  Sulgrave  Court,  Nashville,  Tennessee 

Hollywood's  Shooting  Stars 

Leah  Yoegtly 

P.  O.  Box  353,  Yandergrift,  Pennsylvania 

Photoplay  Theater 

Miss  Myra  Jaxisch 

1117  Sherman  Blvd.,  Milwaukee,  Wisconsin 

Song  Book 

Miss  Martha  Mexdexhall  Rippel 

89  North  Pearl  Street,  Buffalo,  New  York 


TWEXTY-FIYE  DOLLAR  PRIZES 

Photoplay  Apartments 

Mrs.  Sadee  Nelsox 

603  East  Lake  Street,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Chief  Photoplay  and  His  Family 

Sally  Nicol 

518  South  Amo  Street,  Apt.  2,  Albuquerque, 

New  Mexico 

Butterfly  Mat 

Mrs.  Mildred  Toxxesox 

185  Pleasant  Street,  Suite  4,  Brookline,  Mass. 

Song  of  the  Stars 

Miss  Ixez  Spigexer 

701  Westport  Avenue,  Kansas  City,  Missouri 

Photoplay  Press 

Kexxeth  D.  Burdick 

830  .Armstrong,  Kansas  City,  Kansas 

Magic  Lantern  of  Photoplay 
Mrs.  Edw.  L.  Eichmax 
Union  Bridge,  Maryland 

Photoplay's  Film  Frolic 

Mildred  Gladstoxe 

2027  North  15th  Street,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

Ferris  Wheel 

Miss  Anna  Yoxdrasek 

2432  West  46th  Street,  Chicago,  Illinois 

Fountain  of  Youth 
Miss  M.  A.  Shapter 
821  Neil  Avenue,  Columbus,  Ohio 

Stars  of  the  Photoplay 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Reddei.iex 

Route  1,  Oconomowoc,  Wisconsin 

Japanese  Dinner  Gong 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Thompsox 

127  Harrison  Street,  Coldwater,  Michigan 

Fan 
Miss  Ruth  Hexig 
32  Howland  Street,  Roxbury,  Massachusetts 

Rose  Starred  Trellis 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Balmgart 

11  New  Street,  Shelton,  Connecticut 

Basket  of  Fruit 

Marcrethe  Petersen- 

842  South  Lucerne  Blvd.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


The  Thirty-Two  Correct  Cut  Puzzle  Answers 


June 

Laura  La  Plante 
Anita  Page 
Loretta  Young 
Joan  Crawford 
Richard  Barthelmess 
Charles  Rogers 
Richard  Dix 
Clive  Brook 

106 


July 

Marion  Davies 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Corinne  Griffith 
Bebe  Daniels 
Charles  Farrell 
William  Haines 
Gary  Cooper 
John  Gilbert 


August 

Sue  Carol 
Joan  Bennett 
Nancy  Carroll 
Mary  Brian 
Ronald  Colman 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr. 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Ramon  Novarro 


September 

Janet  Gaynor 
Bessie  Love 
Norma  Shearer 
Greta  Garbo 
Milton  Sills 
Jack  Mulhall 
Neil  Hamilton 
William  Powell 


PhOTOPI  w    M  \(.\/r.i  I    \i   \u\ 


J.G.  Bl     i  i  i 
304  South  Ogden  itn   t,  I  leaver,  <  tolorafk? 

ll>\    I      Kl   Kk' 

(i<)l7  Grand  Rivei  Ave.,  Detroit,  Michigan 
Tin-  Lodestar 

MRv  s  \  I  1  \   \ 

16  0  Pearl  Mu<t,  Apt.  11,  Denver,  Colorado 

Sketches  of  the  Stan 

'I'm  oooai  TaoPANsrv 

17  Spring  Garden  Street,  Dorchester,  M 

Sovereigns  of  the  Sitter  Screeen 

Lot  [J   |)i  i>i  CI 

65  iv.irl  Street,  Toledo,  Ohio 

I' i!  mlii  ml 
Mi    -  III  x  K  i :   ill    MlCHON 

1165  Dorr  Street,  Apt  -\  Toledo,  Ohio 
Star  Ou-lt 

Dl   II    \    Will  IT 

270  7th  Street,  N    U  .  Barberton,  Ohio 
Silk 
Mrs,  F.  T   \\\n i « i  1 1 
8152  Ellis  Avenue,  Chicago,  Illinois 

'■'met  of  Photoplay  Shirs 
Mrs.  Ci  in  i  I'.  ()\  i  km  \v 
7(H  North  Mate  Street,  Champaign,  Illinois 
rile  Stars 

Mrs.  Jo.   Si  II  \  I  [DEB 

Yorktown,  Texas 

Just  a  Bundle  of  Old  Fan  Litters 

Miss   Ki  i   wok   Hrou  \i  i  i 

P.O.  Box 951,  Memphis,  [ennesaee 

/  Pit  tuns  in  Folders 

Pact  im:  Underwood 

4100  Forest  Hill  Avenue,  Richmond,  Virginia 

;j  and  Queens  of  Stardom 

Attacxo  Sk  \\m  i. 

1031   Kentucky  Avenue,  Bristol,  Tennessei 

My  Golden  Hook  of  19X 

Miss  BED]  \h  GtJYEB 

5J-'  W.  First  Avenue,  Flint,  Michigan 

Type-O-Graphs 

I'i  i  \  Ki  rg  Wright 

c/o  Standard  Oil  Co.,  Longview,  Washington 

Camera  Stars 

Miss  Erma  Tong 

241  Sierra  Drive,  Modesto,  California 

Blaek  Satin  Rook 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Gerstung 

318  Westmoreland  Ave.,  Lansing,  Michigan 

Stars  of  the  Kingdom  on  Earth 

IBETH  MiQiTiiF.v 

256  East  11th  Street,  Upland,  California 

Set  of  Four  Pictures 

Ml-^   F.I  \   M  UtTENS 

116  West  Centre  Street.  Dallas,  Texas 

Photoplay  Por 

R  \<  iiki.  Pact  im:  Kim  \m 

1810  Sherman  Avenue,  Evanston,  Illinois 

White  Satin  Covered  Book 

A\M      ClRTIs 

3105  Woodrow  Avenue,  Richmond,  Virginia 
Stars  of  the  Photoplay 

Mildred  Damusb 

1539  Park  Place,  Brooklyn,  New  Vork 

Panel  Album  of  Screen  Favorites 

S.  Lambert  Layneld 

Bemis  Bros.  Bag  Co.,  Winnipeg.  Manitoba 

i  Canada 

Album  with  Hand  Painted  Picture  of  Stars 
M arjorie  Vandervelde 
95")  Scribner,  Grand  Rapids,  Michigan 
Photoplay  Album 

I  Frances  Vesley 

868  Sycamore  Avenue,  Tulare,  California 
Make-up  Box 

Pary  HaMBLY 
1121'j  London  Road,  Duluth,  Minnesota 


,n7 


..V  93 


Don't 

neglect 
a  COLD ! 


Use  a  "counter-irritant"  for  real  relief 


is    a 
This 


TI I  \  1     miserable    chest    cold     rul>    on 
Musterole  and  see  how  quickly  you'll 
feel  l«tter!  Rub  it  on  again  every  hour  for 

five  hours  and  you'll  be  amazed  I 

Musterole    gets    action    because    it 
"counter-irritant" — not  just  a  salve. 
famous  blend  of  oil  of  mus- 
tard, camphor,  menthol  and 
other  helpful  ingredients 
actually    draws    congestion 
to    the   surface.     You    can 
feel  how  it  warms  and  pene- 
trates and  stimulates  I 
circulation.     Used    by   mil- 


lions for  .  by  many 

doctors  and  nurses. 

And   don't    be  satisfied   with    the   almost 
instant  relief  you'll  ex]  • 
Musn  rob-  rub.    Km  par  it  .t.r\  hnur  for 
five  hours  and  see  how  wonderfully  it  w 
Kt  i  p  Must*  role  hai 
jars  and  tubes.  All  dru. 

To  Mother*  ■  Mtuteroht 

is  also  made  in  milder 
form  for  babies  and 
small  children.  Ask  for 
Children's  MtUtt  n 


Mantly  transform)  h>hes  into  a 

rk,  rich  luxuriant  fringe  of  love- 
linos.   LcnJs  sparkling  br.l- 

\  liince  and  shadowy,  invit- 
Jepth  to  the  eyes.  The 

pr  eaafcat  eyelash  beauu'fier  to 
arply  . . .  Perfectly  harmless. 
1  l>y  thousand;;. Try  it.  Sol- 
id or  waterproof  Liqui  J  May. 
belline.  Black  or  Brown.  75c 
at  all  toilet  goods  counters. 


.HOTEL 

LOOT 

South  CswaSJaa  A»r. 

■  I  the   ll..«r,l-.lk 


UAYHKLLINE  CO..  CHICAGO     ,        *■      ■*■ 


Atlantic  <  :■  t > .  N.  J. 

ATLANTIC  U1W1  "JIWUI 

<  rnlrall.    I  SMMmI    |  ,  r r  |.  r. ...  f  ll.ilrl 
«»")-(»    r.ur..|«-.n  Amrrku     «  » 

^'"'         R.  n.  itin.  m.i>.  ,") 


A  A   A    A    A    d 


:o:  v. 

s>:  . .  . .  a 


I A  CHRISTMAS  GIFT  That  Willi 
I  Be  Appreciated  Throughout  the  Year  I 

%  A    12  months'  subscription  to  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZi:      1 

Si  USE  THE  COUPON  ON  PACE  101  « 


WANT  SOME  MONEY? 

Here's  A   Wonderful 
Way  To  Get  It! 


Yea.  yon  can  —  anybody  can  mue  a  lot  of 
money  right  at  homeland  whsu's  mor*.  have 
rvaJ  fan  doing  it.  We  show  yoa  r  m  V*J 
famish  ersrytnmg  Dccesaary  oa  ax>  easy  ban*. 


Sf J 


\ 


Coupon 


COSTS  NOTHING  ^.i^I *^S,  - 

givrn  you  frr<-.  Wnt«  tc-Tay  for  bMatifully 
illustrated  ioVa  book  tellmsrallabogtocrrjitshoqa 
whKh  hare  mado  so  many  womrn  indnniMSassl. 
»  *»»y  it  >«  to  tnaka  from  S10  to  CS  par 
«"t  in  U»  moat  detijrhtful  bom.  work  yoo  caa 
imagine.  ..ruinlty. 

VI  Hftj  N»n-Ji-s  FREE.' 
IIKI  MPI    INin^TKIl  S,  TVp(.  4-A.  Adrian.  ' 


s  m:  ivnt  - 

•      Dept.     4-A    -    Adrian.     ' 

ney  at  borne  by  decorating 
ares. 


When  you  write  to  adrertlsers  please  mention  PnOTOPL-tT  MAGAZINE. 


Gone — Another  Ingenue 


(  CONTINUED  1'KOM  PACE  41 


And  every  time  the  constant  effort  to  please. 
Every  time  the  attempt  at  winning  a  new 
audience. 

She  sprained  her  ankle  in  Chicago.  It  was 
strapped  up  and,  in  agony,  she  played  the  next 
show. 

After  eight  weeks  of  the  tour  she  felt  that 
she  couldn't  go  on. 

But  George  made  her  go  on. 

ILL  and  weak,  she  used  to  leave  the  stage  and 
faint  in  his  arms.  He'd  carry  her  to  her 
dressing  room  and  revive  her  for  the  next 
performance. 

Forty-two  weeks  of  the  most  strenuous  life 
in  show  business. 

Esther  Ralston,  shy  as  an  olive  on  a  boarding 
house  table,  demure  as  a  chorus  girl  with  her 
fiance's  mother. 

Esther  Ralston,  getting  out  among  'em. 
Dancing. 

Talking  out  her  songs.  Working  to  win  and 
keep  her  audience. 

And  George  Webb  to  keep  her  going  on. 

"Oh,  isn't  it  almost  over?"  Esther  used  to 
ask.    "Can't  we  go  home  now  to  Hollywood?" 

And  George  used  to  say: 

"We'll  play  just  four  more  weeks  and  then 
we'll  go  home." 

THIS  happened  again  and  again  until  the 
"four  more  weeks"  dragged  out  to  forty- 
two.  For  George  knew  what  was  happening  to 
Esther.  When  he  caught  the  act  from  out 
front  he  could  hear  her  voice  hitting  the  top 
balcony,  and  as  he  saw  her  daily  gaining  more 
and  more  confidence  and  showing  more  and 


more  courage  he  realized  that,  when  the  time 
came,  she  could  return  not  merely  to  the 
lovely  house  that  was  waiting  for  her  but  to 
a  new  career  on  the  screen. 

Esther  has  socked  old  man  tradition  on  the 
nose,  for  it  is  the  law  of  Hollywood  that  a 
vaudeville  tour  sounds  the  death  knell  of  a 
picture  career. 

When  she  did  return  and  was  given  a  screen 
test  an  executive  said,  "Her  voice  is  lovely. 
It  has  warmth  and  sympathy,  but  I  do  feel 
that  having  been  away  from  Hollywood  is  a 
mistake." 

George  smiled  wisely  and  remembered  her 
first  talking  films. 

She  would  not  have  had  a  chance  were  it  not 
for  that  amazing  year. 

So  Esther  is  back  in  Hollywood  and  she  has 
just  picked  one  of  the  ripest  film  plums.  She 
is  Lawrence  Tibbett's  leading  woman  in  "The 
Southerner." 

She  plays  the  part  of  a  smart,  sophisticated 
woman  of  the  world. 

CHE  was  offered  S5.000  a  week  from  one  of 
^the  large  studios  before  she  made  the  M-G-M 
arrangement,  but  Webb  turned  it  down  be- 
cause he  felt  the  role  was  not  suitable  for  her 
come-back.  The  money,  you  see,  is  not  the 
main  issue.  She  earned  S3, 500  a  week  in 
vaudeville. 

George  is  wise  enough  to  know  that  her  first 
screen  part  must  establish  her  as  a  different 
personality. 

"No  more  sappy  ingenues  for  me!"  said 
Esther. 

The  change  in  the  woman  herself  is  actual. 


She  walks  about  in  the  same  body.  Her  hair, 
nose,  eyes  and  mouth  are  the  same,  but  in- 
stead of  that  sweet,  quiet,  little  person  there 
is  a  sure,  vivid  woman  with  opinions  and  con- 
fidence. 

"L-TARDSHIPS!"  mused  Esther.  "Hard- 
*■  -*-ships  mean  nothing  to  me  now.  Why,  if 
they  call  me  to  work  at  five  in  the  morning  it's 
O.  K.  with  me  and  much  better  than  it  was  in 
vaudeville.  I  do  my  own  standing-in.  I  think 
the  box  lunches  they  serve  on  location  are 
banquets.  Nothing  is  too  difficult  for  me  to 
try  now." 

It  is  exactly  as  if  Esther  were  beginning  over 
again. 

The  studio  is  all  new  and  strange  to  her  and 
every  night  she  recounts  to  George  the  trifling 
incidents  of  the  day. 

That  terrific  year  of  stress  and  strain  is  over 
and  Esther  is  a  new  star. 

BUT  George  is  the  cause  of  it  all.  None  of 
this  could  have  been  accomplished  without 
him. 

Esther  not  only  loves  him,  she  gives  him 
complete  worship  and  believes  him  to  be  the 
fount  of  all  knowledge.  Vet  there  was  a  time 
when  she  did  not  dare  to  so  much  as  dispute 
his  word. 

Now  they  meet  on  a  basis  of  understanding, 
their  love  the  guiding  spirit  of  it  all. 

Esther  Ralston  has  defied  tradition.  She 
has  become  somebody. 

George  Webb  did  it. 

And  they  used  to  call  him,  in  Hollywood,  a 
meddlesome  sap! 


One  of  these  days  you'll  see  on  the  screen  a  sturdy  band  of  pioneer  settlers  fighting  off  the  attacks  of  the  hated  red- 
skin.   This  is  the  way  it  was  filmed.    The  platform  about  the  improvised  fort  allows  the  camera  truck  to  move  slowly 
around  the  fighters,  photographing  their  gallant  stand  from  all  angles.     Charles  Brabin  is  directing  for  Metro  this 
thxillingly  realistic  frontier  production,  "The  Great  Meadow" 


10S 


Photon  w  .m  u.wim   roi  Jani  oy,  i     I 


Just  For  the  Fun  of  It 


•i  PACl    If'  I 


home1  prescribed  for  every  well-regulated 
business  woman  Bui  1  do  love  to  dance  and 
in  .ulil it  urn  in  taking  two  class  lessons  .1  week, 
1  am  invited  to  nice  parties  and  dai  ■ 

"Don't  misunderstand  and  think  that  my 
brother  objects  to  my  friends  Mosl  of  them 
an-  boys  with  whom  he  has  always  been 
chummy.  He  simply  has  tlic  idea  that  I'm 
stowing  rather  frivolous  and  forgetting  that 
i>n't  made  just  for  taught 

"I'd  like  to  forget  it  for  a  while,  Mr-  Van 
Wyck.  I  want  to  laugh  a  lot  and  do  things  just 
for  the  fun  of  doing  them  I  I  think  I  should, 
while  I  can.  Even  if  you  till  me  I'm  wrong 
I'm  afraid  I'll  still  believe  I  am  doing  the  ri^'ht 
thing  towards  myself.    I  feel  it,  inside." 

nrillkl.'s  Elsie's  answer.  What  she  feels— 
*■  "inside" — is  probably  her  best  guide,  as  it  is 

everyone's.  Especially  since  it  injures  no  one 
else,  anil  makes  her  happy. 

The  real  test  for  Klsie  and  Jane  Margaret 
and  for  all  of  us  is  to  stop  and  think  how  we 
really  feel  about  things,  "inside."  I'm  sure 
that  if  Jane  Margaret  stops  to  think  she  will 
reali/.e  that  it  isn't  necessary  to  sacrifice  every- 
thing to  ambition,  that  she  has  the  ri^'ht  to  live 
a  little  part  of  her  life  just  for  the  fun  of  it! 

Gay,  South  Australia: 

Perhaps  your  diet  is  too  rich  and  that  is  over- 
loading  your  skin  with  oil.  Or,  perhaps  your 
powder  base  contains  too  much  oil  for  your 
type  of  skin.  Try  leaving  it  off  entirely  for  a 
few  weeks,  as  your  complexion  doesn't  seem  to 
require  it.  Cleanse  your  face  at  ni^'ht  with 
your  cream,  following  it  with  a  tonic  lotion.  In 
the  morning  use  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  after 
your  face  has  dried  thoroughly  apply  a  light 
coating  of  powder.  I  think  you  will  find  this 
treatment  will  solve  your  complexion  problems. 


Yi  1  •■  \ 

\  mi  sent  a  stamp,  bul  no  env<  lop 
addn  1  ul  you  the  pi  1 

reply  you  requested      Mi      1  >r  old 

should  weigh  about  1 19  pounds  for  in  r  • 

and  age,  and    '  iy  one  should 

about  seven  pounds  more  than  that       I 

lik.-  to  send  you  the  skin  leaflets  and  reducing 
booklets,  if  you  will  write  mi-  again  and  1  ■ 
a  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope. 

Ik  is  W  : 

I  don't  >ee  how  you  have  managed  t" 
up  enough  energy  to  exercise  strenuously  on 

the  meager  nourishment  your  month's  diet  ha- 
given  you.  I  think  you  are  making  a  great 
mistake.  Iris,  in  adhering  to  such  a  radical  diet 

without  the  advice  of  a  physician.    Send 
stamped,    self-addressed   envelop.-   and    I 
forward   my   booklet   of   suggestions   for 
balanced  but  nun  fattcnii  md  Simple 

exercises  for  normalizing  the  figure. 

I)    K  : 

The  cream  you  mention  is  helpful  but  will 
not  keep  the  condition  from  returning.  It 
must  be  used  over  and  over  again.     I  am  happy 

to  know  that  you  have  been  so  benefited  by  tie 
advice  in  the  reducing  and  complexion  booklets. 

Jean: 

At  eighteen,  you  shouldn't  }>■  from 

puffed  eyelids  or  wrinkles  under  tin 
you   getting   plenty  of   sleep?      Eating   simple, 
easily    digested    foods'      Drinkini:    plenty    of 
water,  or  too  much  tea  anil  CO  iding 

too   much,    in    poor   light?      If   non. 
things  seems  to  be  al  the  bottom  of  the  trouble 
I  think  you  should  consult  an  oculist  to 
mine  if  you  are  suffering  from  eye-strain,  or  be 
examined  by  a  physician. 


One  of  the  infrequent  pictures  of  Janet  Gaynor  and  Husband  Lydell  Peck. 

They  were  snapped  at  the  Hollywood  opening  of  "Just  Imagine."    The  lad 

at  the  left  is  the  Fox  director,  William  K.  Howard 


in 
Quickly  Healed 

^M"°  longei   rucj  you  endure  itching, 
rashes,    and    Other   irritations    that   play 
■  sensitive  skin.  Simply  apply  pure 
Cooling  liquid  D.D.D.    Tins  famous  remedy 
is  the  prescription  of  Dr.  Dennis,  and  has  a 
1  of  30  years'  ft  ,  fa  bringing  relief 

to  thousands  of  skin  sufferers.  Quickly  heals 
eczema,  rashes,  pimples,  blotches,  and  other 
skin  troubles.  Penetrates  the  skin,  soothing 
and  healing  the  irritated  tissues.  Stops  itching 
instantly.  Clear,  grcasclcss  and  stainless.  Dries 
up  almost  immediately.  Easy  to  use  and  posi- 
tively safe.  Cleanses  the  skin  perfectly  and 
makes  it  clear,  soft  and  healthy.  A  35c  bottle 
will  prove  the  merits  of  this  famous  antiseptic, 
or  money  back.  At  ail  drug  stores. 

D.D.D. 

JJie  Healing  Skin  Lotion 


THE 

HAIR  you  ENVY 

CAN  NOWBEYOURS 
for  $2  00 


TV  «Cvrct  — thu  marvclmu  net.-  hru»h  « 

■:*(tnfJ  bra:'.  a  Sod. 

Mir    wonderfully    « 
1  Auvirutf— « ■ 

Pvrotoi  J  —  cotet«.   - 
coraL    Specify  your  .  I 


SEND  NO  MONEY 
JUST  MENTION 
DEALERS   NAME 


*¥\ 


>^ 


•Ik  WILCOX  HAIR  BRUSH 


Z> 


»  -.in  1 

-  10b 
**,.*■  ...       .  « 


When  you  write  to  »drertkers  j-lctse  mention  rnOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Hell's  Angel 


[  CONTINUE  I)  FROM  PACE  69  ] 


"Kristin  Lavransdatter,"  a  novel  by  Miss 
Sigrid  Undset.  It  runs  to  391  pages  of  fine 
print.  Miss  Harlow  (Presh  to  me)  was  sur- 
prised in  the  middle  of  page  four.  She  told 
me,  becomingly,  that  if  her  eyes  hold  out  and 
the  north  light  is  good,  she  expects  to  finish 
the  book  before  Mr.  Howard  Hughes  goes  on 
the  breadline.  "Intelligent,  ambitious,  a 
seeker  after  the  finer  things,"  I  noted. 

/CARELESSLY  displayed  on  an  adjacent 
^--'reading  table  was  a  well-thumbed  copy  of 
the  current  issue  of  Photoplay.  "Unusually  in- 
telligent, remarkably  keen  and  nippy,  well- 
informed,  and  a  connoisseur  of  the  very  best 
in  current  literature  and  photographic  art," 
I  was  careful  to  note. 

My  subject  and  I  then  conversed  amiably 
on  divers  topics,  such  as  "Hell's  Angels," 
the  daily  and  periodical  press,  personal  ap- 
pearances and  the  latest  Hollywood  dirt. 

"Sapristi!"  I  murmured  to  myself.  "My 
services  are  not  needed  here.  Alors!  This 
young  lady  is  a  perfect  specimen  of  the  normal, 
healthy,  happy,  handsome  American  girl,  and 
will  the  band  please  play  'The  Stars  and 
Stripes  Forever'?  She  has  no  more  car- 
buncles on  her  subconscious  than  I  have 
United  States  Steel,  either  common  or  pre- 
ferred!    Am  I  dashed?    Basta!" 

At  that  moment  lunch  was  served  by  two 
house  detectives  disguised  as  waiters  by  the 
addition  of  a  few  choice  gravy  spots. 

Then  the  scientist  in  me  broke  out  in  a 
rash.    I  was  on  the  trail — The  Big  Trail. 

Before  me  stood  a  huge  sector  of  honey- 
dew  melon,  three  thick  and  steaming  wheat 


cakes,  four  coy  sausages,  a  mound  of  Melba 
toast  and  a  sizable  pot  of  coffee.  Before  my 
fair  vis-a-vis  rested  half  a  grape  fruit,  one  bran 
muffin  and  a  cup  of  thin — almost  emaciated 
— tea!  At  last!  I  had  plumbed  the  unconscious 
of  Jean  Harlow! 

"You  are  repressed!"  I  shouted  triumph- 
antly, and  across  the  table  was  a  sob. 

"You  have  my  secret!"  whispered  Miss 
Jeanie.  "I  have  about  ten  pounds  more  than 
I  carried  during  the  making  of  'Hell's  Angels,' 
and  I  must  lose  it.  I  am  allowed  a  thousand 
calories  a  day — and  this  lunch  runs  today's 
score  up  to  800." 

"TPONIGHT,  I  suppose,  you  will  make  a 

*■  gorgeous  dinner  of  half  a  peanut,"  I  sup- 
posed. 

"Please!"  was  all  she  could  say. 

The  devil  that  lurks  in  every  scientific  man 
asserted  itself.  I  plowed  and  plunged  through 
my  delectable  luncherino  like  a  whippet  tank 
through  a  cup  of  consomme.  It  was  terrible, 
but  science  demanded  it.  Miss  Harlow's  eyes 
popped  out  and  rolled  miserably  around  the 
muffin.  It  was  all  she  could  do  to  replace 
them.  I  shall  spare  you  further  details  of 
that  sad  hour. 

Luncheon  over,  Miss  Harlow's  sterling 
American  girlhood  once  more  took  command. 
Poised,  calm — though  I  fancied  a  bit  weakish 
from  hunger — she  answered  my  questions. 
Yes,  she  dreams  occasionally.  Usually  of 
three-inch  steaks  smothered  with  champignons 
and  drowned  in  a  thick  gravy.  No,  she  is 
not  going  on  the  stage  until  she  is  perfectly 
sure  of  herself.    "Discreet  and  wise,  "I  jotted. 


She  is  under  contract  to  Mr.  Howard  Hughes' 
productions,  and  is  glad  of  it.  "And  why  not?" 
I  noted. 

I  was  then  presented  to  my  subject's  mother, 
an  extremely  handsome  and  gracious  lady  who 
calls  her  chick  "Baby"  (and  so  would  I  if  I 
got  half  a  chance).  And  then  it  was  time  to 
depart,  inasmuch  as  my  studies  had  already 
forced  Miss  Harlow  to  miss  a  date  with  her 
hair-dresser,  who,  I  suspect,  is  some  genteel 
Xew  York  jeweler  like  Cartier. 

My  research  was  over. 

"\/f  Y dear  Miss  Harlow,"  I  said,  "I  prescribe, 
■'•"■"■for  your  minor  spiritual  complaint,  a 
toureen  of  cream  of  cauliflower  soup,  a  dollop 
of  some  tasty  fish,  a  couple  of  square  yards  of 
filel  mignon  suitably  garnished  with  vegetables, 
salad  with  a  rich  cream  dressing,  an  assort- 
ment of  pastry  and  half  a  dozen  bottles  of 
Bass'  Ale.  You  will  then,  I  assure  you,  have 
no  further  aches  in  your  unconscious." 

"Ah,  but  how  about  my  hips?"  she  asked, 
sadly.  "None  the  less,  I'll  think  over  your 
prescription  while  I  am  eating  my  olive  at 
dinner." 

It  had  been  a  most  pleasant  two  hours, 
this  meeting.  Miss  Harlow  is  a  thoroughly 
charming  girl,  and  excellent  company,  and 
her  mother  is  all  that  a  mother  should  be. 
They  seemed  to  forgive  my  scientific  en- 
thusiasm, and  their  attitude  inferred  that  they 
considered  me  an  affable  and  well-conducted 
young  man.  Miss  Jean,  in  particular,  was 
most  cordial.  "Because  she  likes  nice  things," 
I  jotted,  as  I  backed  out  of  the  suite  and  fell 
down  an  elevator  shaft. 


Just  a  little  embroidering  lesson  on  a  set.    Between  scenes  for  "Reducing,"  the  new  Marie  Dressier-Polly  Moran 

comedy,  Marie  appears  to  be  teaching  the  younger  set  how  to  cross-stitch.    From  left  to  right,  the  class  consists  of 

Buster  Keaton,  Polly  Moran,  William  Collier,  Jr.,  Sally  Eilers,  Anita  Page  and  Dear  Teacher.     The  pupil  who 

doesn't  drop  a  stitch  will  be  rewarded  with  a  nice  big  close-up! 


110 


PbOTOPI  w    M  \..\/im    i  .,k  Januaby,    1      1 


I  I  I 


Brickbats  and  Bouquets 


[continuum  boh  PAOl  <> 


A  Swedish  Bouquet 

Mm  klinlin,  Sweden 

Maurice  Chevalier  is  my  great  favorite  and 
I  think  he  is  thai  oJ  all  the  country,  tn  "ur 
venerable  <>ld  school  all  the  k'irls  have  fallen 
into  hopeless  love  with  Chevalier.  1  have 
wen  "  l'lu-  Love  Parade"  five  tin 

The  best  number  in  "Paramount  on  Parade" 

Mit/i   ('.rein's.      HOW  Can   SO  small  a  nirl 

a-,   \i it  .  'I  mimic    absolutely 

lik.  Chevalierl 

I5lKc.ll  1  \  Ldtoegm  n 

The  Goddess  Rebuked 

Warren,  Ohio 
If  Greta  ever  expects  to  master  the  Rngliah 

Lge,  she'll  have  t « ■  speak  it  in  her  own 
home  Why  does  she  speak  Swedish  or  (ier- 
man  there?  She's  living  in  America  and  living 
on  good  American  money.  Why  not  try  using 
the  good  old  language? 

Mks.  L.  E.  Hazel 

The  (irn lie  Sex 

Lincoln,  Neb. 

What  a  fight!  What  a  battle'  I've  just 
seen  "The  Spoilers"  and  the  fight  between 
Boyd  and  Cooper. 

The  blows  landed!  The  grunts  came  from 
the  stomach!  The  falls  and  crashes  weren't 
faked! 

For  years  I've  endured  bread  and  milk 
fights. 

Beknice  Hell 

Spanked ! 

Kansas  City,  Kan. 

Oh,  Ruth,  how  could  you  make  such  a  fool 
of  yourself  in  "Anybody's  Woman"!  Think 
of  you  shockingly  drunk  in  that  awful  picture. 
Please  tell  them  not  to  have  you  lit  up  like 
that  again.  And  say,  can't  you  let  up  a  little 
on  the  smoking,  too.J 

1.   Dickinson 

Conic  On.  Let's.  Fight 

Bayonne,  X.  J. 

Who  ever  said  Lawrence  Tibbett  or  Maurice 
Chevalier  could  measure  up  to  John  Boles? 
Tibbett  his  a  voice  like  a  thunderbolt. 
Chevalier's  nothing  but  a  crooner. 

M.  N. 

Laughing  Gas 

Methuen,  Mass. 

Suffering  the  agonizing  throb  of  toothache, 
I  have  attended  theaters  where  Laurel  and 
Hardy  comedies  were  showing,  and  after  they 
had  so  disrupted  my  trend  of  thought  by  their 
hilarious  antics,  I  have  left  the  theater  stitts 
toothache. 

Laurel  and  Hardy  do  not  receive  the  credit 
due  them. 

R.  Vincent  Raff 

Ah,  Bitter  Truth! 

Asheville.  X.  C. 

When  the  movie  magazines  cruelly  revealed 
that  Dick  Barthelmess  was  married.  I  took 
the  blow.  But  I  never  saw  another  Barthel- 
mess picture. 

Now  comes  the  awful  truth  about  Robert 
Montgomery.     Xot  only  married,  but  expect- 


ing  the   st.»rk       l>,,   yotl    think    I    u.c 

him  again?    I  mphatii  all) 

Hoik.: 

I 

I  oni  •    ■'.!    my  fund  of  Joan  I 
but  not  sun ,  i  ,  .in  kc  hei 

Mks  i.ii  1 1  w  Brown 


II 


I  - 


ere  b  i  <>\ «  . 

If 'list. m,  Tc  | 

I  would  rather  s(-,  Greta  in  a  newareel  than 
all  the  other  stars  combined   in  a  fiftj 
feature, 

I  iiaii>H<-r<-<l  ( lull 

Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Delightful  comedy,  extraordinary  beauty — 
and  they  name  it  "Call  of  the  Flesh"! 
The   people    to    whom    the    title    is   exp 

to  appeal   will   not   appreciate   the   picture, 

while  lovers  of  beauty  will  not  penetrate  the 
Ugly  disguise.     N'o  wonder  the  public  is 

ing  away  from  pictures! 

M 

Tin-  SpeD 

ni.M.  \  v 

Remember  Siengali  in  "Trilby"?     Hi 

the  gentleman  who  transferred  his  talents  to 
the  girl  by  hypnotic  methods.  Will.  Janet 
Gaynor  is  the-  for  Charles   Farrell. 

Without   Gaynor,    Farrell   is  a  self  eon- 
actor  with  a  collar  ad  profile.      Contrast   his 
work  in  "7th  Heaven"  with  that  of  "Liliom." 
He    has    been    mediocre   in    every    (iayi. 
production.     Janet  is  his  guiding  star. 

(ii  oroj  Abb \rr. 
Mental  Kisses 

Louisville,  Ky. 

Why  not  have  the  hero  and  heroine  embrace 
in  the  finale  without  the  Stereotyped  kiss? 
Preparation  is  the  best  part  of  a  trip.  The  same 
applies  here.  Let  'em  make  coo-goo  (  \ 
each  other  all  they  wish;  then  leave  the  rest  to 
the  imagination. 

Mrs.  Carol  C\rlton 

Be   Nutty,    Marii  ! 

Springfield,  Vt. 

Why  not  co-star  Marie  Dressier  and  Charles 
Ruggles?     They  are  certainly  tin-  best  come- 
dians in  the  talkies.     Lots  of  us  like  to 
the  theater  for  a  good  laugh. 

Mks.  Hen. lis  C.  Wright 

Hew    Uboul  Stan  Laurel? 

Joplin,  Mo. 

Is  there  such  a  thine  as  a  modest  hero?  The 
conceit  of  the  present  day  movie  hero  is  amaz- 
ing! 

Ramon  Xovarro's  attitude  of  "Isn't  this 
cute?"  Jack  Oakie's  "Get  a  load  of  this." 
William  Powell's  "That's  very  well,  but  I've 
something  more  up  my  sleeve  "  And  so  on. 

Let's  have  a  bashful  hero — not  too  bash.ul. 
but  just  a  little  less  brazen  than  the  ordinary- 
run. 

\  Harris 


A  GhviSlmas 

GIFT 

Twelve  Times 

rll  E l\ E    i  era! 

reasons    wl  ub- 

lptmn  to  Photoplay 
Magazine  i  such  an  ideal 
Christmas   ^  i  f  l  .    Not    only 

u  oontinue  ii 
month    after    month      \< 
after  the  holly  and  mistlt 
arc    forgotten     but    it-    wel- 
come is  absolute.     You  know 
it    will    please    the    recipient. 

C  In  the^e  days  when  every- 
one i<  interested  in  motion 
pictures,  the  gift  of  a  maga- 
zine that  reveals  the  insddi 
the  art  and  industry  r 
month  is  assured  the  keen- 
est welcome.  Photoplay  has 
the  brightest  personality 
stories;,  the  most  appealing 
illustrations  and  the  most 
reliable  information  about 
the  stars  and  their  pictun 

To  enable  you  to  Bend  this  gift 
subscription  in  a  con 
most   attractive  way.  an  artis- 
tic Christmas  Card    has   ben 
pre  ting  that  Photo- 

play Magazine  will  be  sent  for 
whatever    )x-nod     you     riesin-. 

Your  name  andChnstmaa  greet- 
ings will  appear  on  this  card, 
which  will  be  sent  either  to 
or  to  the  recipient  of  the  gift 

When  you    return    coupon,    attach   a 
i  '  dir 
vr  a  CktCM.      Bd'.a  hurry. 

PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE 

Dept.  1-CS 

919  No.  Michigan  Ave., 

CHICAGO,  ILL. 


Christmas  Subscription 
COUPON 

PnoTOPi  ay  Magazine.  Dept.  1-CS, 
'>l'>  No.  Michigan  Ave..  Chicaco,  III. 


Gentlemen:— Enclosed  find  S         

<    ciuda.  S3  00 
per  >  i .  .  $3.50  per  j  ■ 


for. 


.-,      .r  .it.-r-c' "■ 


SmJ  to 
—Name. 


Address. 


From 
— Name. 


|  •  I 


The  Shadow  Stage 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  53  ] 


BROTHERS— Columbia 

BERT  LYTELL  playing  two  brothers  in  a 
melodramatic  thriller  isn't  as  effective  or 
exciting  on  the  screen  as  he  was  on  the  stage. 
Dual  roles  in  pictures  somehow  lack  the  hocus- 
pocus  quality  that  adds  to  their  interest  behind 
the  footlights.  Nevertheless,  this  is  enter- 
taining enough,  with  certain  high  spots  and  a 
truly  delightful  finale. 

UNDER  SUSPICION— Fox 

HERE'S  a  grand  travelogue  of  the  gorgeous 
Northwest,  and  even  though  you  may  not 
care  very  much  what  happens  to  the  hero  and 
the  villain,  you'll  get  your  money's  worth  out 
of  the  scenery.  The  title  sounds  like  the 
usual  crook  stuff,  but  it's  really  something 
sentimental  about  the  Royal  Northwest 
Mounted  Police.  Lois  Moran  does  excep- 
tionally fine  work. 

ZWEI  HERZEN  IM  3-4  TAKT— 
(Two  Hearts  in  Waltz  Time) — 
Associated  Cinemas 

BY  all  odds  the  most  charming  sound  picture 
yet  to  come  from  Germany.  It  is  so  gay 
and  light-hearted  and  tuneful  that  it  simply 
steals  the  heart,  this  sprightly  little  operetta 
in  the  Viennese  manner.  It  ran  for  several 
weeks  to  packed  houses  at  a  little  New  York 
theater.  The  names  of  the  cast  mean  nothing 
to  American  audiences,  but  they  are  all  deft, 
smart  players.     All-German  talk. 

SUSPENSE— British  International 

A  WAR  story  that  will  please  those  who 
like  battle  stuff,  though  the  action  is 
pretty  slow  here  and  there.  The  title  comes 
from  the  fact  that  a  group  of  British  soldiers 
is  driven  half  balmy  by  a  constant  tapping 
near  their  dugout,  indicating  that  the  enemy 
is  running  a  mine  and  that  they  may  be 
wafted  skyward  any  minute.  Jack  Rayne  and 
Cyril  McLaglen,  one  of  Victor's  brothers, 
do  well. 

SEE  AMERICA  THIRST— Universal 

A  HALF  dozen  reels  of  Langdon-Summer- 
ville  clowning,  flung  helter-skelter  over  a 
skeleton  story  which  concerns  itself  with  the 
ultra-Chicago-scale  warfare  of  two  bootlegger 
gangs.  There  are  several  high  spots  of  me- 
chanical humor,  but,  after  all,  it's  almost 
impossible  to  stretch  a  two-reel  plot  and 
assortment  of  gags  and  gangs  into  a  feature- 
length  comedy.    The  result  is  yawnsome. 

THE  LION  AND  THE  LAMB— Columbia 

TJTERE'S  another  gangster  story  which  in- 
■*■  -^-eludes  a  fire,  a  chase  in  a  storm  and  a  lot 
of  guns.'  There's  supposed  to  be  some  good 
clean  fun  but  they'll  have  to  do  better  than 
that  to  get  you  to  laugh.  Walter  Byron, 
Miriam  Seegar  and  Carmel  Myers  are  the 
principals,  but  the  bright  spot  is  the  work  of 
Charles  Gerrard  as  one  of  the  crooks. 

MURDER— British  International 

OUR  British  cousins  have  turned  out  a 
smart,  well-constructed  and  very  enter- 
taining murder  mystery  talkie  in  this  one.  It 
has  the  usual  amateur  detective,  well  played 
here  by  Herbert  Marshall,  with  the  background 
a  traveling  theatrical  stock  company.  See — 
it's  different!  Norah  Baring,  the  leading 
woman,  is  excellent.  One  of  the  best  from 
Elstree  recently. 

Ill 


HEADIN' NORTH     Tiffany  Productions 

WELL,  well,  well.  They've  given  Bob 
Steele  a  horse  and  his  cowboy  suit  and  a 
brace  of  guns  again,  and  turned  some  cameras 
loose  on  the  result.  It's  whoopee  and  a  couple 
of  hundred  bangs,  and  if  you  like  your  West- 
erns straight  and  hot,  you'll  go  for  this  in 
a  big  way.  If  you  don't,  you  may  as  well 
stay  home  and  play  backgammon. 

FAIR  WARNING— Fox 

CHESTY  Georgie  O'Brien  once  again  proves 
that  it's  a  risky  business  being  the  villain 
in  a  Western  picture.  Not  that  Georgie  is  the 
villain — oh,   Heaven   forbid!     He's   the  hero 


International 

Meet  Gaston  Glass'  new  wife.  She's 
Lioba  "Bo-Peep"  Karlin,  also  in  pic- 
tures. Gaston's  been  around  the 
studios  a  long  time,  and  he  found  his 
bride  in  the  cast  of  a  picture  on  which 
he  was  working 


who  punctures  the  villain  with  some  well- 
placed  lead,  and  thereby  restores  everybody's 
faith  in  the  quaint  idea  that  honesty  is  the 
best  policy.  Mitchell  Harris  as  the  hissing 
villain  is  a  fine  target. 

DICH  HAB'  ICH  GELIEBT— 
(Because  I  Loved  You) — Aafa  Tobis 

ALTHOUGH  this  is  shown  in  the  German 
version,  its  action  is  so  essentially  true  to 
the  tradition  of  MOVING  pictures  that  the 
story  can  be  easily  understood  by  a  person 
knowing  not  a  word  of  that  language.  It  tells 
a  sweet  love  story,  with  some  charming  music 
and  a  few  heart  throbs.  It  shows  how  modern 
German  film  technique  uses  dialogue  only 
incidentally,  not  on  every  inch  of  sound  track. 


CHARLEY'S  AUNT— Columbia 

SO  many  people  have  played  in  this  story 
that  in  1912  a  "Charley's  Aunt  Club"  was 
formed  in  London  composed  entirely  of  people 
who  had  played  in  it.  But  it  is  excellent  farce 
and  this,  combined  with  Charlie  Ruggles' 
antics,  makes  it  worth  seeing  again.  Also, 
Doris  Lloyd  gives  an  exceptionally  fine  per- 
formance as  the  real  aunt,  while  June  Collyer 
adds  beauty  and  distinction. 

THE  THIRD  ALARM— 
Tiffany  Productions 

HTHIS  was  a  grand  old  thriller  of  the  silent 
■*-  films.  And  then,  it  seems,  somebody 
figured  it  would  make  a  grand  sound  picture, 
what  with  all  the  noise  you  can  make  with 
sirens!  So  they  borrowed  fire  engines  and 
firemen's  suits  and  burned  up  a  lot  of  prop 
fire  stuff.  Jimmy  Hall,  Hobart  Bosworth, 
Anita  Louise  and  others  try  hard,  but  it's  just 
one  of  those  things. 

PART  TIME  WIFE— Fox 

•"THIS  is  one  of  those  nice,  entertaining 
■*■  comedies  so  well  done  that  you  don't 
mind  its  being  hokum.  You've  never  seen 
Eddie  Lowe  in  a  funny  role  before,  but  he  does 
a  grand  job  and  this  kid  Tommy  Clifford 
(remember  him  in  "Song  O'  My  Heart"?) 
is  a  natural.  A  golf  course  is  the  scene  of 
both  the  drama  and  the  comedy.    You'll  like  it. 


COSTELLO  CASE—Sono  Art- 
James  Cruze 

A  NOTHER  underworld  yarn,  with  heart 
-''■interest  and  devilment  spread  on  thick  for 
the  popular  trade.  It's  the  story  of  a  murder, 
with  the  boy  and  girl  suspected,  but  the  gang 
boss  the  real  culprit.  Tom  Moore  plays  a  wise 
copper  effectively,  and  Lola  Lane  is  pretty  as 
the  leading  girl.  Others — Wheeler  Oakman, 
Russell  Hardie,  Jack  Richardson.  Not  too 
hot. 

PINCHOT'S  SOUTH  SEAS  CRUISE— 
Travel-Epics 

EX-GOVERNOR  GIFFORD  PINCHOT  of 
Pennsylvania,  with  his  wife  and  son,  went 
on  a  pleasure  cruise  to  strange  places  in  the 
South  Seas.  They  brought  back  a  con- 
tinually interesting  and  instructive,  and  fre- 
quently beautiful  and  thrilling,  camera  record. 
And  there's  not  a  studio  fake  shot  in  it. 
Pinchot's  lecture  is  dubbed  in  entertainingly. 

ESCAPE— Associated  Radio  Pictures 

FROM  the  British  studios  comes  this  talkie 
based  on  a  successful  stage  play  done  in  this 
country  by  Leslie  Howard.  In  the  English 
film  version  the  distinguished  Sir  Gerald  Du 
Maurier  plays  the  lead,  supported  by  an  able 
enough  cast.  The  central  figure  is  an  escaped 
prisoner.  Ear  too  talky  a  talkie,  and  far  from 
the  best  the  mother  country  has  turned  out. 

LAST  OF  THE  LONE  WOLF— Columbia 

WELL,  if  our  old  pal  The  Lone  Wolf,  in  the 
person  of  the  ageless  Bert  Lytell.  isn't 
all  gummed  up  in  a  mythical  kingdom!  This 
one  is  Saxonia,  and  Bert  is  turned  loose  from 
jail  by  the  Prime  Minister  in  order  that  he 
can  steal  the  Queen's  ring — to  preserve  her 
fair  name!  A  lot  of  rushing  about,  with  acting 
,;  la  mode  by  Bert.  Patsy  Ruth  Miller,  Lucien 
Prival  and  Otto  Matiesen. 


Photoplay  Magazine  ran  Jam  \k\     ]      l 


////.  /■/  wn  01   i  OVE 
— British  International 

A\\  \  M  \\   WONG,  oo I  ii 

•*Vmil  l.itily  ill  (Armany  and  England, : 

hi-r  t.ilkic  debut  in  America  in  this   British 

picture.    Anna  May  is  passable  a-*  a  (  : 

uirl  in  Rus>ia  -.ix-akin^'  <lull  United  States,  but 

the  picture  is  slow,  the  1.1-1  sleepy  and  the- 

whole  thil  t   strain. 

EX -11  wit     I  Iberty  I'm.itu  Horn 

DEMEMBER   sitting   tm   in   the   balcony 
^■weeping  over  "East  Lynne"?    Well, 
that  old  thriller  dressed  up  in  modern  d 

I    in    a    futuristic    chair    and    re-titled 
■|a  I  l  m  ..hi  bear  it'    Made  quite 

obviously  for  the  box-office,  it  fails  wh 
should   be   most   drama tk       At    no   time   do 

.in    K.rr\-   ,md    Marian    Nixon   seem   t'> 
fed  that  theyre  playing  rial  charai 

I  lit  (  ONi  i  str  \i  IN*  kin 

I    Mill  /  Ull 

Hi  n  1 1    GIBS'  >\  »xl  ihOW  in  this 

picture,  bul  he's  pretty  much  stymied  by 
a  weak-sister  story      llo<>t   p  iwboy 

who  falls  in  love  «ith  a  red  ad  be  vows 

n  the  girl.    P.S     He  does.    She's  Kathryn 

Crawford        Hilt     thr    story    doesn't     hold     to 

gether,    and    is    plenty    far-fetched, 
entertainment 

////    /  \\n  or  MISSING  \H  \ 
I  ijfany  Productions 

A  BOB  STEEL!  Western,  offering  nothing 
■**■  new  or  unusual.  Although  a  talkie,  it's 
made  in  the  good  old  silent  way.  A!  St.  John, 
the  perennial,  appears.  Some  hard  ridin'. 
And  there  isn't  a  single  other  thinu  to 
:  it. 


LOOSE     I  \l)\      British     International 

Till'.  British  1  it  a  problem  drama 

here.     It  concerns  a  chap  released  Lnt 

new  world  after  fifteen  years  in  the  brig,  and 
his  adventures  in  marriage  with  an  extremely 
broad-minded  actress.  The  leads  ;ir<-  played  by 
\  Adrienne  Allen.  Owen  Nfares  and 
Donald  Calthrop.  An  extremely  wordy 
picture,  and  a  little  too  weak  in  story  and 
direction  to  be  of  much  inter. 


HEART 


Chicago,  111. 

I  am  alone  in  a  big  city,  making  my 
way.  Everybody  seems  to  be  in  a 
hurry,  too  busy  to  befriend  a  lonely 
girl.  In  desperation  I  turned  to 
movies.  Here  I  find  food  for  the 
soul.  Something  to  think  about. 
Something  to  dream  about.  Some- 
thing to  look  forward  to.  Beautiful 
women  —  handsome  men  —  mellow 
voices. 

How  they  soothe  me.  I  return 
from  a  movie  with  new  hopes. 

How  many  other  kindred  souls  has 
it  befriended  and  how  many  miser- 
able beings  has  it  comforted !  How 
many  unoccupied  persons  has  it 
entertained !  How  many  lessons  has 
it  taught! 

Yet  it  is  the  most  condemned 
and  recommended  thing  in  the 
world.    Therefore  it  is  Great! 

Molly  Krol 


^       STARS'     *■ 


The  screen's  greatest 
celebrities  have  honored 
Hotel  Sherman. 

Will  Roger* 
Mary  Picldord 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Constance  Talmadge 
Lupe  Velez 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Vilma  Banky 
Rod  La  Rocque 

i  Damita 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Ronald  Colman 
Gloria  Swanson 


Single  Room  With  Bath 

$2.50,  53.00,  $4.00 

and  $5.00 

Double  Room  With  Bath 

$4.00,  $5.00,  $6.00 


find  luxurious 
comfort  and 
hospitality  un- 
surpassed at 
HOTEL 

SHERMAN 

CtWCACo 

m 

m 


PIN  MONEY 
FOR  OUR  READERS 

PHOTOPLAY  now  offers  its  readers  the  opportu- 
nity to  convert  their  spare  time  into  real  money  by 
becoming  its  subscription  representatives  in  the  town 
or  community  in  which  they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of  Photoplay,  will  be  quick  to 
realize  the  money-making  possibilities  this  offer  affords 
you.  Your  friends — your  neighbors — in  fact,  all  the 
homes  in  your  community — are  prospective  subscribers 
for  Photoplay.  Who,  today,  is  not  interested  in 
moving  pictures  —  the 
chief  recreation  of  the 
American  public? 


Be  the  first  in  your  com- 
munity to  take  advantage  of 
this  offer,  and  get  started  at 
once.  The  coupon  or  a  post 
cardwill  brine  further  details. 


PHOToiM  \>    \t  \r.  IZINE, 
n.pt.  RB-1,  <>\t  s...  MlcfcttMi   V*.. 
>.  III. 
I  am  interested  in  your  mooeY-makinr.  offer 
to  your  reader*.    Srnd  iw  thr  details  at  once. 


Name. 


Address . 


City. 


STajtc 


When  jou  write  to  adrrrtlser*  pi.  is  "LAY  1IAGAXIXE. 


Ex-Millionaire 


government  came  and  demanded  tens  of  thou- 
sands more  from  me. 

"I  hadn't  kept  papers  to  prove  they  were 
wrong,  so  I  had  to  pay  it." 

EVEN-  after  he  couldn't  get  picture  jobs  any 
more,  there  was  vaudeville.  Hut  with  the  de- 
mise of  vaudeville,  that  income  source  van- 
ished. 

From  that  and  his  stock  holdings,  he  used 
to  get  about  S50,000  a  year  after  his  hey-day- 
was  passed. 

Hut  then,  last  year,  came  the  stock  market 
crash,  and  everything  he  had  left  was  wiped 
out. 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  1'AGE  35  ] 

"And  here  I  am,  now,  broke.  Flat  broke, 
and  I  mean  flat  broke,"  he  says.  "But  I've  no 
regrets.  I'm  sure  if  I  had  to  do  it  over  again, 
I'd  do  exactly  the  same  thing. 

"I  haven't  accumulated  dollars,  but  I've  ac- 
cumulated pleasure  and  experience  and  knowl- 
edge. 

"If  I'd  die  tomorrow,  there's  nothing  I'd  have 
missed. 

"  I've  done  all  that  could  be  done  in  pictures. 
Made  four  hundred  and  seventeen  of  them. 
I've  had  my  share  of  adulation  and  success, 
and  the  fans  still  love  me,  I  believe.  The  way 
they  show  it  is  a  matter  of  personal  gratifica- 
tion to  me  far  above  what  money  could  buy. 


"I've  no  moans  or  groans.  I  know  that  I 
could  have  bought  land  for  S25.000  years  ago 
that's  worth  a  half  million  now.  Some  of  the 
old-timers  did  that  and  they're  rich  today. 
I  didn't,  but  I'm  not  sorry.  I  had  the  things 
I  wanted,  with  my  money. 

"T'VE  had  a  wonderful  time.   All  I  ask  now  is 
-Mhe  chance  to  entertain  the  public,  to  earn  a 
living,  and  to  get  a  chance  to  travel  now  and 
then. 

"If  I  can't  make  money  at  this  any  more, 
there  are  always  lots  of  freight  boats  and 
tankers  that  would  be  glad  to  have  a  husky 
fellow  work  on  deck." 


Go  West,  Young  Love! 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  47  ] 


Hut  it  seemed  cosier  out  on  the  platform,  with 
their  shoulders  just  touching  and  exchanging 
currents  of  electricity.  Her  shoulder  wished  it 
had  known  his  for  at  least  a  week— for  then  it 
might  be  proper  not  only  to  touch  it  but  to  lean 
against  it.  But  much  as  she  liked  the  moon  and 
the  moments,  she  must  put  them  aside  for  her 
plan. 

"Ever  been  frightened?  Ever  run  away?" 
she  inquired,  as  if  of  the  night. 

HTHAT  confirmed  what  he  had  been  thinking, 
*■  but  he  must  give  her  no  inkling  of  that.  In- 
stead, he  echoed,  "  Ever  run  away?  Your 
question  sounds  as  if  you're  doing  that  very 
thing!"  he  challenged. 

"I  am!"  softly. 

He  whistled  surprise.  "What  are  you  run- 
ning away  from?"  and  to  himself,  "When  I  tell 
her  what  I'm  running  away  from  and  why, 
won't  she  be  surprised!" 

"  What  am  I  running  away  from?  "  seriously. 
"It's  not  a  what,  it's  a  who — "  then  in  a 
hushed,  strained  voice,  "my  husband!" 

"Your  husband?" 

"Yes,  it's  my  husband."  Then  she  gulped. 
"I  don't  know  why  I  should  be  confiding  in 
you,  but  you've  been  so  kind,"  and  she  dropped 
her  head  on  the  tip  of  his  shoulder  and  cried 
just  as  she  had  the  first  time. 

He  could  feel  her  body  trembling,  shaken 
with  its  sobs.  The  more  he  tried  to  comfort 
her,  the  harder  she  sobbed.  The  train  swept 
round  a  sharp  curve  and  now  she  was  in  his 
arms.  Her  perfume  was  sweet  but  he  released 
her,  wishing  fiercely  that  there  were  no  moon 
and  no  husband.  "Tell  me  all  about  it,"  he 
invited,  comfortingly. 

CHE  pretended  she  was  not  aware  that  she 
^had  left  her  hand  in  his.  The  train  sang  its 
little  song  a  little  more  loudly.  "We've  only 
been  married  a  year,"  she  began  in  a  whisper, 
"and  now  I  learn  that  there's  another  wom- 
an— "  a  tear  glistened  along  her  small  nose  and 
spattered  into  space. 

"Please  don't  cry.  Xo  man's  worth  a 
woman's  tears." 

"  Hut  we've  only  been  married  a  year — oh! — 
it's  hard  for  a  man  to  understand!"  and  then 
she  told  him  in  detail  just  what  had  happened. 
At  the  finish  of  each  sequence,  she  would  sob  a 
little,  and  he  would  try  to  comfort  her. 

"I  could  kill  that  man!" 

"Oh,  no,  no.  I  still  love  him  very  much!" 
And  then  she  told  him  why  she  loved  her  hus- 
band.   "But  I'm  going  to  divorce  him!" 

He  found  himself  arguing  against  the  di- 
vorce.   "You  mustn't  be  hasty,"  he  advised. 


"Anybody's  apt  to  make  a  mistake.  You  say 
you  love  him?  " 

"I  did—" 

"  You  still  do.  I  can  tell  by  the  tone  of  your 
voice.  If  I  were  you  I'd  go  back  home  and 
have  a  long,  heart-to-heart  talk  with  him. 
Don't  smash  things  up  before  you  give  him 
another  chance.  You  will  give  him  another 
chance,  won't  you?" 

"Perhaps — "  thoughtfully. 

"Promise  me  that  you  will." 

She  promised. 

"Judging  from  your  happy  little  face,  one 
would  never  dream  you've  suffered  so.  I  cer- 
tainly feel  sorry  for  you.  I  don't  know  when 
I've  been  touched  so." 

And  then  she  did  the  strangest  thing.  She 
threw  back  her  head  as  if  to  laugh,  and  instead 
buried  her  face  in  her  arms  and  sobbed. 

"The  strain's  been  too  much  for  you,"  he 
comforted. 

After  all,  he  didn't  know  much  about  women 
but  he  had  heard  of  hysterics. 


T"\URING  the  next  two  days,  which  brought 
-'—'them  closer  to  the  West,  he  did  not  bring 
up  the  subject  of  her  husband.  Neither  did  she. 
But  he  felt  rather  satisfied  with  himself  be- 
cause he  had  drawn  from  her  the  promise  to 
give  her  husband  another  chance.  He  was  cer- 
tain that  she  appreciated  his  sound  advice. 

All  of  Tuesday,  as  they  traveled  through 
Nebraska,  he  had  wanted  to  tell  her  about  the 
bank  robbery.  Wednesday  came,  and  they 
spun  through  Colorado,  and  still  he  had  not 
told  her.  But  now  it  was  Thursday,  and  night- 
time, and  they  were  again  together  upon  the 
observation  platform. 

"It's our  last  night  together!"  He  was  a  for- 
lorn huddle  in  the  cramping,  carpet-back  chair. 

"I'm  just  as  sorry  as  you  are."  And  now 
there  was  no  need  of  even  pretending  that  her 
hand  was  in  his.  "It's  been  wonderful  going 
through  the  desert — with  you.  I'm  always  go- 
ing to  love  the  desert — " 

"So  am  I." 

"And  the  hills  with  their  high  foreheads." 

"You've  taught  me  to  love  them,  too." 

There  was  something  he  wanted  to  tell  her, 
something  he  had  not  been  brave  enough  to 
tell  her  through  the  three  short  days  together. 
He  rehearsed  his  story  very  carefully,  mustered 
up  his  courage  and  began: 

"  I  haven't  told  this  to  a  soul,  and  ever  since 
I've  met  you,  I've  been  wanting  to  tell  you, 
and  yet  couldn't.  I  just  can't — "  and  his  voice 
dropped  miserably. 


She  cuddled  closer.  Every  moment  of  their 
three  days  together  had  told  her  eloquently 
enough  of  his  affection  for  her,  three  days 
thick  with  thoughtfulness  and  laughing  hours, 
and  most  precious  of  all,  these  starlit  nights  on 
the  observation  platform. 

"I'm  going  to  speak  fast,"  he  was  saying. 
"I'm  going  to  spill  the  dope,  and  then  you  can 
do  what  you  please  about  it — and  me!"  He 
tapped  his  vest  mysteriously,  but  not  on  his 
heart  side. 

"TT'S  all  in  here,"  then  lowering  his  voice  till 
-'•it  was  just  a  threadbare  murmur,"  a  hundred 
thousand  dollars  in  hundred  dollar  bills.  I 
stole  it,  yes,  I  stole  it.  I  fixed  the  books  so  that 
they'll  never  know.  I'd  been  planning  to  steal 
it  for  years,  safe  behind  the  bars  of  my  teller 
window  at  the  bank. 

"I  wanted  enough  money  to  buy  me  freedom 
— to  come  West,  to  do  something  different 
I  was  sick  of  scribbling  entries  into  pass  books 
and  drawing  up  trial  balances.  I  wanted  to 
live — "  and  then,  with  extravagant  detail,  he 
told  her  how  he  planned  spending  the  hundred 
thousand  dollars  along  the  trail  that  would 
carry  him  around  the  world. 

"  You  never  thought  I  was  that  kind  of  bird, 
did  you?  I  don't  look  as  though  I  could  loot  a 
bank,  do  I?" 

She  was  gazing  at  him,  aghast.  "No,  you 
don't.    You  certainly  fooled  me!" 

And  then  he  did  the  strangest  thing.  His 
face  beamed  with  satisfaction.  Its  expression 
puzzled  her.  They  rode  on  for  miles  and  miles 
without  a  word.  The  moon  was  going  down 
behind  a  hill,  but  she  did  not  take  her  hand 
from  his.  He  seemed  grateful  for  that  much. 
And  she  tried  to  keep  the  tremor  out  of  her 
voice.  She  tried  to  be  very  calm,  very  kind,  as 
if  his  story  had  not  stirred  her.  "I  am  going 
to  ask  you  to  do  something  that  may  seem  very 
hard  to  do — " 

"I'd  do  anything  for  you." 

"  T  WANT  you  to  go  back,  make  a  clean  breast 
-*-of  things,  and  return  the  money.  Then  I'll  be 
very  happy  for  I'll  be  sure  for  always  that 
you're  not  a  thief." 

"I  give  you  my  word  I'd  do  anything  to 
make  you  happy.  But  remember,  you've 
given  me  your  word  about  going  back  to  your 
husband". 

She  nodded. 

"You'll  let  me  write  you,  won't  you?" 

"Of  course." 

'"And  some  day,  when  I've  made  my  own 
way.  you'll  let  me  call — at  your  house?" 

For  answer,  she  suddenly  put  her  arms  about 


PhOTOPI  a.    M  \..\/i\i     POl  i ■■'.      1       I 


him  and  ki>-nl  him    II<-  returned  hei  kiss  when 

tin  v  |>.irlnl  at   the  station 

lor   dayi   after   shr   arrived    in    Hollywood, 
that  kin  anil  tin-  thought  of  him  clllBg  to  In  r 

IK-  hail  been  10  kind     Ami  what  a  handsome 
bank  robbcrl    She  Kit  a  glory  in  tin-  thought 

that  |hc  had  M'lit  him  bad  to  take  his  punish 
mint  liki-  a  man.    lie  was  a  man,  even  though 

In-  was  not  tin-  gunman  type  the  had  .set i 

reen. 
slu-  pictured  his  confession,  the  police,  tin- 
trial,  tin-  sentence.     It  was  a  pity  slu-  would 
never  ham  the  outcome  of  tin-  case,  for  when 

they  hail  parted  at   tin-  station,  slu-  had  given 
him  a   fictitious  addrr-v      Sim  i-  slu-   had   told 

him  slu-  was  married,  no  other  course 

ilc. 


Trill   Central  Casting  Bureau  had  sent  out  a 

■      ill   for  a   thousand   ivtr.is        I  here   was   a 

long,  unending  line  of  them,  threading  its  way 

to  the  casting  window. 

Somehow,  to  tin-  curly,  blonde  head  of  Mary 
Manners,  tin-  grille  work  on  the  window  recalled 
tin-  prison  i>ars  to  which  slu-  had  relegated  her 
handsome  bank  robber. 

Months   had    elapsed    since    that  strange 

meeting,  yet   she  had   not   forgotten   him,  nor 
ever  would. 

Name,    please?"    came    the    businesslike 
from  behind  the  grille  work. 

"  Mary  Marin. 

'"What  the  —  "  the  pen  spattered,  the  grille 
work  was  Hung  open,  and  a  familiar  fan-  thrust 
itself  forward.  "  It's  you,  of  all  people!  And 
what  are  you  doing  here?  Come  into  my  office 
and  let's  talk.  I  must  see  you.  I  must  talk  to 
you!"    He  slammed  the  window  shut. 

The  line  of  extras  waited  restlessly,  but 
waited. 

"What  are  you  doing  here!-'"  she  challenged. 

"I    thought    you    were    behind    the    bars   of   a 
prison  " 

He  avoided  her  implication.   "  I  wrote  to  the 


addn  aided,  "but  tin- 

letter  cai 

your  husband'  " 

AT  thi      hi    b  n  •   Into  taught*  ■ 
V  n't  any  husband    That's  why  the  ad 

my  way  to  Hollywood,  ami  I  decided     that 

was  before  1 1 

try  out  my  abili  I  thought  it 

would   be  good 

"  Well,  you  ,  ,rt  in, 
You  urtamly  did  COI  SOOUl  thai 

band  •  ■ 

\n  -. ■■  i  angry  at  me  for  fooling  ■ 
d,  poutingly, 
••  I'm  tit  kled  t"  death  " 
"Why?" 

"Will,  it  means  that  there  isn't 
tand 

"What  good  will  that  do  you       I      .;■:■ 
this  (inn-  there  an-  detectives  all  over   I  i 
wood,  looking  for  the  bank  robber.    Ann 

afraid?" 

This  time  it  was  his  turn  to  burst  into 
laughter.  He  laughed  from  the  top  of  his  brown 
head  to  the  tip  of  hi,  brown  brogui 
headed  for  Hollywood  and  acting,  too.  I 
thought  of  trying  a  little  act  out  myself,  and 
yOU  certainly  wen-  a  good  audn-nn 

"And  you're  not  a  bank  burglar?" 

"(Jolly,  no.   And  I'm  i.  n  tor,  either 

I  thought  I  had  lost  you  by  over  a<  tim;  That 
convinced  me.  That's  why  I'm  here  at  the 
Casting  bureau.  You  see.  my  father's  one  of 
(he  executives  at   the  studios  hi 

in  to  bang  at  the  window  and  door. 

"  C  \Y.  the  extras  will  tear  down  the  house  if 
^1  don't  stop  talking  to  you  and  start  tend- 
ing to  shop.  Hut  you'll  meet  me  for  lunch, 
won't  you?  I  want  to  find  out  where  you'd 
like  to  spend  your  honeymoon." 

"It's   very   nice  on   a   pullman   observation 
car."  saucily     "I'd  prefer  that  " 
"That's  just  what  I  thought!"  he 


I     I     ; 


Little  Jane  Bannister  finds  out  what  Christmas  is  all  about— even  though 

her  doll's  stocking  will  hold  one  salted  peanut!    Harry  Bannister  and  Ann 

Harding  are  telling  Janie  all  about  it.    They  built  the  fireplace  at  their  new 

Santa  Monica  house  especially  large  for  the  benefit  of  a  portly  Santa 


COLDS 

WILL  ALWAYS  WARN  YOU 


Soma   atari   with  a   tore 

i ,  soma  with  ii  tn  k. 

ling  sensation —  but  no 
mailer  what  your  warning, 
treat  your  cold  imriu-di- 
nlely  and  avoid  illness. 
Groves  Laxative  BROMO 
QUININE  contains  boll, 
the  tonic  and  laxative  ele- 
ments. Without 
these  ingredients 
relief  would  be 
only  temporary. 


i  -TP*« 


Take  2  tabled  every  2  or  3 
hour*  for  quick,  pleatant  relief. 
30c  a  box  at  all  druf  store*. 


GrOVe'S    Laxative 


BROMO 
QUININE 

T  a  b  I  e  t  s 


¥(HCE 


Now 

you  can 

have  the 

VOICE 

you  want 

100% 

Improvement 
Guaranteed 


PERFECT  VOICE  IHSTITUTX.   D.pt.  12-51 
1922  Sonny.. da  tn.  Chlcmo 


i  EXHAUST  KM. 
aicxaoo  aiacKSTOMC.         ■  221  riatm  bmk.~.         new  iota 

\     Parr  eoiars    of    Dr.  Eaenwein'i    farooo.    forty- 


1 


■  ■    -      — .     -    w_.     _.    .  _  .   p.^-.    .  -  -    - 

Ho.vrstT  fs-       Wrrte  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOl 

Dept  »s 


OldMoneyWanted 


NUMISMATIC  CO.,  Dept.  75 


Ft.  Worth,  Tex. 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  rilOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Mary  Pickford  Denies  All! 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  60  ) 


in  pictures  now.  He  wants  to  travel.  But 
Mary  is  different.  Her  life  is  lived  in  the 
studio.  She  has  that  old  drive,  that  force 
that  Griffith  seemed  to  bequeath  all  his  players. 
Pictures  and  picture  producing  are  tre- 
mendously important  to  Mary. 

As  far  as  money  is  concerned,  the  spending 
of  it  to  have  the  best,  the  throwing  away  of  it 
when  she  is  dissatisfied  with  her  efforts,  she 
is  not  a  good  business  woman.  But  she  has 
the  drive,  and  the  power  of  a  smooth  machine. 
From  the  time  she  arises — eight  o'clock — until 
she  retires,  her  date  book  is  filled.  Dancing 
lessons,  fittings,  conferences,  rehearsals,  an 
hour  for  luncheon — never  any  more. 

FOR  Mary,  "Kiki"  is  a  tremendous  de- 
parture. It  is  risque.  It  is  riotous  comedy. 
Mary  will  use  a  French  accent  which  she  has 
learned  from  Fifi  Dorsay  and  Mrs.  Maurice 


Chevalier.  She  tried  to  imitate'Mrs.  Chevalier's 
laugh.  She  has  spent  hours  perfecting  it. 
It  is  one  little  detail  of  the  picture.  Nothing 
is  too  small  for  her  to  consider.  She  will 
play  the  role  in  her  own  blonde  hair,  and  the 
clothes  will  not  be  patterned  after  those 
Norma  Talmadge  wore  in  the  silent  film. 

MARY  goes  to  fortune  tellers  religiously.  She 
also  has  a  flair  for  numerology  and  astrol- 
ogy. When  she  goes  to  a  fortune  teller  she  im- 
mediately writes  down  all  the  predictions 
made,  to  see  if  they'll  come  true.  Lately 
three  seers  have  told  her  that  she  was  going 
to  change  her  line  of  artistic  endeavor  com- 
pletely and  would  become  more  famous  in 
the  new  work  than  she  has  been  before.  That 
hardly  seems  practical,  unless  she  takes  up 
aviation  and  discovers  a  new  pole. 

The  rumors  of  her  stage  career  began  as  a 


joke.  "I'd  like  to  return  to  the  stage,"  she 
said,  "but  perhaps  I  wouldn't  like  it  for  long 
and  I'd  feel  that  while  I've  been  learning 
motion  pictures  and  then  talking  pictures, 
which  are  entirely  different,  women  like 
Katherine  Cornell  and  Helen  Hayes  have  been 
learning  the  stage.  Who  am  I  to  enter  their 
territory,  unprepared  as  I  am? 

"I  think  my  next  picture  will  be  an  original. 
I'll  never  make  another  film  that  was  done  in 
silents  once.    Then  after  that  I'm — " 

"COR  there  is  always  in  Mary's  mind  an  after 
■*-  that  and  an  after  that.  Doug  may  let  his 
picture  work  go  for  a  golf  tournament.  But 
Mary's  heart  beats  to  the  turn  of  the  cameras, 
and  her  soul  expands  when  she  feels  the  bustle 
of  a  studio  stage. 

She  is  ever  more  the  artist  than  the  business 
woman. 


Be  Careful  of  Your  Colors 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE   /  3 


Lois  Wilson  would  never  wear  anything 
gray;  Florence  Vidor,  now  the  wife  of  Jascha 
Heifetz,  and  Alice  Joyce,  those  two  lovely 
aristocrats  of  the  screen,  were  partial  to  black 
and  white  and  the  softer  grays  and  violets. 
Bebe  Daniels  loved  red,  and  worked  best  in  it. 
At  one  time,  when  she  was  to  play  a  very  gay 
and  dashing  widow,  we  made  her  mourning 
things  entirely  of  red,  which  photographs 
black,  for  Bebe  was  depressed  by  black,  and 
feared  the  reaction  of  conventional  mourning 
on  her  work. 

Helen  Morgan  likes  green  and  vivid  orange, 
Gertrude  Lawrence  blue,  Gloria  Swanson  all 
colors  (except  old  rose!),  Jeanne  Eagels,  with  a 
flaming  genius  which  burned  itself  out  too  soon, 
was  partial  to  coral  and  flame. 

Most  of  you  will  remember  the  exotic  and 
vivid  personality  of  Nita  Naldi.  In  her  dress- 
ing room,  and  on  the  set,  she  wore  a  dressing 
gown  of  the  most  violent  magenta  pink,  what 
is  known  below  the  Mason  and  Dixon  line  as 
"nigger  pink."  I  asked  her  once  why  she  wore 
it,  and  she,  as  frank  in  her  speech  as  she  was 
pronounced  in  her  beauty,  said:  "  I  know  I  look 
like  hell  in  it,  but  I  get  more  kick  out  of  this 
color  than  a  quart  of  champagne." 

jvTOW,  I  knew,  of  course,  that  there  must  be 
•L^a  reason  back  of  all  this,  and  I  discovered, 
by  investigation  and  experiment,  that  colors 
had  all  sorts  of  qualities,  which  I  had  never 
before  suspected.  Some  were  stimulating  to  a 
degree  that  resulted,  in  sensitive  cases,  in 
intense  irritation.  Some  colors  are  depressing 
in  effect.  Psychiatrists  say  that  if  a  neuras- 
thenic person  were  confined  in  a  room  deco- 
rated entirely  in  shades  of  purple,  the  result 
would  be  complete,  melancholic  insanity. 
Colors  differ  as  to  their  force  as  well,  for  some 
are  forceful,  active  and  advancing,  while  others 
are  timid,  passive  and  receding. 

Colors  differ  as  to  their  suggestion  of 
warmth,  for  while  some  are  warm,  and  even 
hot,  others  range  from  cool  to  cold.  Many 
colors  have  properties  of  weight,  some  seeming 
heavy  and  ponderous  while  others  are  light  and 
airy.  Some  colors  have  the  aspect  of  mystery; 
some  are  melancholy,  some  are  dramatic,  some 
repellant,  some  tender,  some  exciting,  some 
So  you  can  see  how  color  in  the  hands  of 
one  knowing  its  hidden  qualities,  its  amazing 
powers,  may  be  used  to  play  upon  human 
emotions  and  even  upon  human  bodies  as  one 

116 


might  play  upon  a  musical  instrument. 

I  am  going  to  tell  you  just  what  you  can  do 
yourself  with  this  amazing  and  lovely  force, 
how  you  may  perhaps  change  your  very  destiny 
through  the  right  use  of  color. 

BLACK 

T  SHALL  begin  with  black,  which  is  not  prop- 
*•  erly  a  color  at  all,  but  rather  the  absence  of 
all  color,  and  here  we  come  again  into  contact 
with  the  force  of  emotional  association.  If  you 
will  think  back  for  a  moment  to  your  childhood 
days,  you  will  remember  that  your  most  vivid 
emotional  reaction  was  to  light  and  darkness. 
When  the  light  was  turned  out,  and  you  were 
left  alone  in  black  night,  those  reactions  were  of 
fear,  mystery,  and  the  unknown. 

Black,  too,  is  the  symbol  of  gravity,  solem- 
nity and  a  sombre  outlook  upon  life.  For 
widows,  besides  being  a  symbol  of  their 
mourning,  it  signifies  constancy  and  fortitude, 
and  the  added  attraction  of  a  complete  knowl- 
edge of  life,  which  gives  a  widow  that  strange, 
indefinable  attraction  that  is  beyond  analysis. 

On  unmarried  women  and  girls,  its  symbol- 
ism takes  on  a  more  dangerous  note  for  poor, 
defenseless  man,  for  then  it  means  intent,  and 
we  have  the  beginning  of  the  vampire.  That  is 
why  soft,  black  satin  has  always  been  the 
favorite  of  our  vampires  of  the  screen.  It 
makes  the  figure  seem  additionally  long,  and 
its  lustrous  plasticity  reveals  the  modelling  of 
the  body,  and  makes  the  most  of  its  sinuous 
curves. 

Yet,  in  spite  of  its  sombre  background  and 
symbolism,  black  is  one  of  the  most  striking 
and  satisfactory  of  colors,  when  applied  to 
dress.  This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  no  other 
color  so  brings  out  the  contrast  of  skin  and 
eyes,  and  throws  into  such  relief  any  color 
worn  with  it  as  does  black.  But,  in  spite  of 
everything,  black  has  a  definite  subduing  effect 
on  the  beholder,  as  well  as  the  wearer,  and  I  do 
not  believe  that  it  is  possible  for  anyone  to  be 
really  and  unaffectedly  gay  in  an  all-black 
costume. 

WHITE 

Y\  7HITE  is  the  synthesis,  the  apothesis  of  all 

**  colors  and,  by  association  again,  its  white, 

spotless  and  untouched  qualities  have  made  it 

the  symbol  of  purity,  chastity,  innocence  and 


truth.  In  dress,  it  is  traditional  for  christening 
robes,  confirmation,  the  first  communion,  the 
sweet  girl  graduate,  and  the  blushing  bride  and, 
for  certain  colorings,  it  is  a  most  effective  color 
in  any  form  of  dress. 

It  is  one  of  the  coldest  of  colors,  and  there  is 
nothing  so  refreshing  to  the  eye  on  a  hot  sum- 
mer day  as  to  encounter  someone  dressed  from 
head  to  foot  in  spotless  white. 

RED 

FROM  fire  and  bloodshed  comes  red  as  the 
symbol  of  war,  and  all  its  passions,  rage, 
hate,  lust,  desire  and  revenge.  Since  it  is  the 
favorite  color  of  that  most  fascinating  being, 
our  friend,  the  devil,  the  most  tempting  sins 
which  we  may  commit  are  known  as  "scarlet 
sins." 

Now,  lest  you  be  disturbed  because  you  are 
fond  of  that  color,  do  not  forget  that  it  has  a 
number  of  healthful  and  beautiful  associations 
as  well. 

If  we  had  no  red,  we  would  have  no  red 
roses,  no  scarlet  fruits,  no  blazing  sunsets  and 
rosy  dawns,  no  ruby  lips,  no  blush  of  love. 

It  is  a  warm  color  of  great  stimulation,  has  a 
most  exhilarating  effect  upon  men,  and  life 
would  be  very  dull  indeed  if  it  were  not  for  red, 
and  some  of  the  things  it  stands  for.  So,  if  you 
like  red,  by  all  means  wear  it.  for  it  cannot 
affect  you  but  pleasantly,  unless  you  begin 
thinking  red  thoughts. 

When  red  is  tempered  with  white,  it  becomes 
a  very  different  thing  and.  in  the  various  shades 
of  pink  and  rose,  it  signifies  health,  affection, 
unselfishness  and  optimism. 

ORANGE 

WE  come  next  to  orange,  a  color  in  which 
none  of  us  can  indulge  too  much  in  one 
way  or  another,  for  it  is  said  to  be  the  color  of 
the  very  force  of  life  itself.  It  is  the  color  of 
physical  strength,  and  of  the  highest  vitality 
and  bodily  vigor. 

In  wearing  it.  however,  we  must  remember 
that  it  is  one  of  the  warmest  and  most  ad- 
vancing colors,  and  that  not  everyone  can 
indulge  in  pure  orange  for  an  entire  costume 
without  risking  the  danger  of  having  one's  per- 
sonality partially,  if,  indeed,  not  altogether 
submerged. 

Except  for  the  vivid  and  exotic  personality 


PHOT0P1  »1    M ai.wim.    i  a     j  kv,    1 V3 1 


117 


and  the  slender  figure,  orange  is  best  in  the 
lorn  "I  a  Irii  only  in  an  ai 1 1 

GR]  1  \ 

Wme  now  to  green,  our  ol  the  mot!  1  on- 
ous,  and  yet  tin-  most  commonplace 
1]  >rs  by  reaaon  ol  the  lavish  use  whicb  na 
ture  makes  of  il  for  thai  reaaon,  ia  the 

mo^t  restful  ol  «.  > •!< t-s  to  1  h<  1  \ .  and,  because  of 
the  promise  of  green  in  the  early  spring,  it  has 
become  the  symbol  for  faith,  youth,  hope, 
immortality  and,  in  tin-  material  world,  vi<  tory 
ami  sui 

ing  to  the  psychists,  is  the  color 
of  the  objective  mind,  and  of  the  great  cosmic 
currents  of  thought,  which  give  us  those  things 
that  thf  objective  mind  desires  success  in 
business,  money,  wealth  and  power. 

if  you  want  these  things,  you  must  think 

in  terms  of  green,  wear  it,  and  surround  your 
self  with  it.  and.  if  your  desires  arc  as  Bl  rang  as 
the  color  which  stands  for  them,  you  are  sure  to 
get  your  heart's  desire. 

In  dress,  green  is  one  of  the  cool,  slenderizing 

colors,  doubly  agreeable  tO  the  eve  in  winter, 
when  it  is  Otherwise  almost  totally  absent  from 
the  sight. 

BLUE 

ANOTHER  of  nature's  great  expanses  of 
color,  that  of  the  heavens,  stands  for  the 
highest  intelligence  and  the  deepest  spiritual  in- 
sight It  stands  for  sincerity,  piety  and  serenity 
of  Spirit.  Blue  is  said  by  the  psychists  .md  meta- 
physicians to  be  the  color  of  the  subjective,  or 
higher  mind,  and  of  the  cosmic  current  of 
divine  intelligence,  which  flows  in  a  glittering 


ut   uf  ilii  tru    blur  all  about    U 

we  d t    1 1   it 

it  you  are  working  on  a  mental  plai 
1  udent,  .1  w  nti  1 ,  .1  philosopfM  • 
■..nit  brilliant  e  of  intelta  1  for  ai 
whatsoever,  sou  must  think  in  tern 
and  1  ultiv.it.  thii  1  olor. 

PURPLE 

PUR  PLE,  or  \  iolel .  you  k 
11  d  and  blur,  and  when  our  blue  intelligi 
or  higher  selves,  1  omes  inl tad  with  our 

red  thoughts,  and  the  thin 

do,  what  can  the  result  be  b  and 

regret,  which  is  what  pm;  tor 

Purple,  too,  stands  for  dignity,  .1 
istic    that    comes   from    the   chastening   and 
purifying  effects  of  suffering. 

Purple  stands  also  for  high  though  is  and  noble 

purposes,  and   it    is    also    thr   color   of    royalty 
and  st.itr. 

raj  ow 

AND  now,  we  come  to  yellow.  Yellow  is  the 
highest  color  of  all.  Yellow  is  the  color  of 
the  sun.  the  heart  of  the  universe,  of  gaiety  and 
joy,  of  glory  and  power,  and  of  the  greatest  of 

all  the  fori  rs  in  the  world  —that  of  I" 

you  want  these  priceless  possessions,  you  must 
wear  yellow;  you  must  vibrate  to  the  color  of 

the  sun. 

Yellow  i-  said  to  give  courage  to  the  silent 
lover,  too.  so  if  the  favored  one  1-  Doming  to 
call  upon  you  tonight,  put  on  your  loveliest  yel 

low  frock,  and  no  matter  how  tongue-  tied  he  may 
be,  I  venture  to  say  that  the  charm  will  work. 


They  Hitch  Their  Wagons  to  Stars 

[  CONTIMI  D  FROM   PAG] 


ne^s,  with  its  tough  long  hours  and  hazardous- 
to-health  surroundings.  Studio  sets  are  cold. 
drafty  things  and  Mr.  Arliss.  besides  being  well 
along  in  years,  is  frail. 

"  Hut  as  long  as  he  will  do  it."  argues  Jenner, 
'"the  least  I  can  do  is  protect  him."  Conse- 
quently at  exactly  four-thirty  of  every  after- 
noon, Jenner  stalks  into  Mr.  Arliss'  set, 
-dless  of  circumstances.  The  director  may 
be  in  the  middle  of  a  "take."  The  situation 
may    be    strained,    dramatic,    tense.       Those 


things  mean  nothing  to  Jenner.  Mr.  Arli 
says,  quits  promptly  at  four-thirty.  And  what 
he  says  goes.  Jenner  is  master.  For  Jenner, 
believes  Mr.  Arliss.  knows  just  a  little  more 
about  Mr.  Arlis^  than  anyone  else  including 
Mr.  Arli-s  .  That  has  proved  itself  many  times 
over.  So  Jenner  continues  by  his  side,  unsbake- 
able;  watch-dog  plus.  Their  association  is  an 
idyl  in  harmony. 

Hollywood's  balance-wheels!   Many  an  actor 
would  run  himself  to  death  without  one! 


Welcome  Home,  Clara! 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  !•  \ 


when  she  realized  she  could  not  go  on  and  on, 
playing  four  shows  a  day.  Her  life's  energy  was 
being  sapped.  She  could  not  stand  it,  and  in 
Washington.  I).  C,  she  cancelled  her  further 
bookings  as  finally  as  she  had  stepped  out  of 
pictures. 

She  had  been  singing  in  vaudeville  and  had 
put  on  many  too  many  surplus  pounds.  Gruel- 
ing treatments  which  cost  her  thousands  of 
dollars  followed,  and  she  is  now  ready  to  begin 
over  again. 

She  is  beautiful  now.  even  more  beautiful 
than  she  was  years  ago. 

Not  long  ago  her  'phone  rang  and  she  was 
told  that  a  member  of  the  Warner  Brothers 
film  company  was  speaking  and  that  she  was 
wanted  for  a  test  for  "Courag 

"I  thought."  she  said  later,  "that  somebody 
was  playing  a  joke  on  me.  I  could  not  believe 
that  anybody  remembered  me.  I  knew  that 
I  had  been  completely  forgotten.  So  I  simply 
laughed  and  paid  no  more  attention  to  it." 


But  it  wasn't  a  joke.  She  had  not  been 
forgotten.  Other  studios  made  her  offers  but 
she  was  not  ready.  She  wanted,  first,  to  have 
her  figure  at  the  weight  it  should  be.  She  is 
ready  now. 

"I've  always  been  too  frank,"  she  said,  "too 
frank  for  my  own  good.  But  I  can't  help  it 
and  I'm  not  coming  back  until  I  have  1 
that  I  feel  suits  me.  Oh.  mind  you.  I  know 
I  cannot  star  again  and  I  don't  mind  how- 
small  the  part  may  be.  but  it  must  Ik-  the 
right  part.     Upon  that   I  insist  " 

Her  mind   has  not   been  idle  dur. 
eight  \ 

She  has  acquired  a  vital  interest  in  chemistry 
and  is  seriously  considering  taking  a  COUI 
the  University.     Also  she  has  perfected   the 
beauty  of  her  voice. 

She  stands  on  the  brink  of  a  iv 
She  will  make  no  more  foolish  mis! 
is  a  business  woman  now — a  beautiful  bus 
woman. 


Mail  Coupon 


i 


l>*p<  V-IMS     10  *m\Ui  Sue*     BJm  T«h 

rrulU 


i 


l 

■ 


Deauty 

p-J(\       depends  upon  the 

"SHAPE 


of  your 


NOSE 


30  DAYS 
HOME   TRIAL 


The  nose,  composed  mostly  of  fle~li  an 

tOage,   can   be   molded  to  si; 

wearing    the  Anita  Nose  Adjuster,  while 

asleep  or  during  the  day.      U 

quick,  safe,  painless  and  inex] 

method.     Results  are  lasting! 

Your  age  doesn't  tr 

iJ.x-tori  appi  yback 

QUA  I:  \NTi:i;      Send    !  it    I 

FREE  BOOKLET.  ■'The  /Vo.e  and  It,  Shap*."    ^WaVlic 

ANITA  INSTITUTE,  A28  Anila  BIdg.  Newark.  N.  J. 


C  //>  n  into  a  BIG  PA 
*3*W  HOTEL  JOB/ 


Earn  $2,300  to  $10,000  a  Year: 


• 

iY*i'i'] 

»»  Pw- 
oarhlnc   Flan  qoallaea  Torn 

C£JC2i 

LEWS  HOTEL  TRAINING  SCHOOLS 

aaaaaaaa aatt     K.».m  I  >  \  -  »«J »  W  a  .  h ,  n  C  ton     I).  < 


ft  Vz  Price 


M 


K-ea 


l*-».  Rrval.  •'e  -Kmsw  tsars—  •■* 

fared.  Al*«  t'mtibleai  ■*  re^eaesssl  i 

SEND   NO   MONET 

Il    ■   ■  .  .    -         -.  ■  '    -    •     r  • 

Sjihm  mm.  Wwm  ....----  mt 
S*at  «tt   1*  da**'  cnaj.     S*nd    No 
|Min.  Baa  fr- 
•l  wiiliam  io  laffl  eatara.  Gmuu  ka» 

•■■  ■     "  ■  2J,  M 

International  Tjpewriter  Excru,  mpi 


Wticn  vou  write  to  adrerttsers  please  mention  rilOTOI'T.AY 


John  Boles  Confesses 


[  CONTINUED  FKOM  ]>AGE  73 


"How  do  I  know?'' 

"How,"  we  insisted,  "do  you  make  love?" 

"Say,  fellow,"  he  replied,  "haven't  YOU 
ever  made  love?'' 

"Who's  interviewing  who,  here?"  we  coun- 
ered.  You  see,  Obie,  by  this  time  we  realized 
that  John  was  either  very  bashful,  or  wanted  to 
keep  his  secrets  to  himself.  But  we  were  per- 
sistent, we  were. 

"All  right,"  he  surrendered,  "ask  me  what 
your  Mister  Splumf  wants  to  know." 

"Well,  what's  the  best  technique?" 

"It  varies." 

Q. — Varies  how? 

A. — Whether  she's  short  or  tall,  heavy  or 
thin,  red-haired  or  not  .  .  .  say,  what  sort  of 
girl  is  this  Mr.  Squaff  in  love  with? 

Q. — Well,  suppose  she's  short. 

A. — Then  he  should  maneuver  her  onto  a 
flight  of  stairs,  so  she  stands  on  the  step  above 
him.  If  she's  tall,  he  ought  to  reverse  it,  so 
that  he's  on  the  step  above  her. 

I  [ere  John  scribbled  a  diagram  on  a  napkin, 
showing  a  girl  and  a  boy  on  a  flight  of  stairs. 
How  quaint!  Seven  tourists  in  the  cafe  asked 
seven  waitresses  to  get  the  napkin  for  them, 
after  Mr.  Boles  had  gone.) 

"Y\  7IIY  all  this  stairs  business?"  we  asked 

vv  him. 

"Because,"  he  grinned,  "the  shortest  line 
between  two  pairs  of  lips  is  level." 

Q. — Well,  suppose  Obie's  girl  is  —  ah  — 
plump? 


A. — There's  a  good  rule  for  that,  too.  If 
she's  thin,  set  her  on  your  knee.  If  she's  heavy, 
get  on  your  knees  yourself,  before  her.  It'll 
save  your  constitution. 

Q. — What  do  you  mean,  the  technique 
varies  with  the  color  of  her  hair? 

A. — Say,  haven't  you  ever  known  any  red- 
heads? 

Q. — All  right,  but  maybe  Obadiah's  girl  isn't 
a  red. 

A. — No,  she  can't  be.  Or  Obadiah  wouldn't 
be  asking  questions. 

Q. — How  do  you  get  that  look  in  your  eyes 
when  you  make  love  to  a  girl? 

A. — Simplest  thing  is  to  make  love  in  the 
dark,  son.  Then  your  eyes  won't  give  you 
away.  If  there's  moonlight,  maneuver  your- 
self into  a  position  so  the  moonbeams  glint 
from  your  eyes  and  she'll  think  it's  lovclight 
instead  of  just  moonshine.  If  it's  broad  day- 
light— well,  in  broad  daylight,  son,  you've  got 
to  mean  it! 

Q. — And  is  it  true  in  love,  too,  that  "actions 
speak  louder  than  words?" 

A. — Any  lover,  no  matter  who,  should  at 
least  kiss  the  Blarney  stone  once  before  he  tries 
to  kiss  a  girl.  And  whatever  he  says — well, 
he's  not  under  oath,  is  he? 

But  after  all,  that's  one  point  on  which  I 
wouldn't  give  any  rules.  If  he's  got  any  sense 
at  all,  he'll  know  when  to  stop  talking  and 
begin  acting — or  vice  versa. 

A. — Tell  us  a  few  secrets  about  yourself,  Mr. 
Boles. 


(He  looked  startled  and  worried.  He  took 
the  top  layer  off  his  Swiss  cheese  sandwich  to 
see  if  the  cheese  had  any  holes  in  it.  It  did. 
They  spelled  Laemmle.) 

"Tell  us,"  we  continued,  "how  you  yourself 
act  in  those  passionate  love  scenes  you  play.  Is 
it  real  emotion  on  your  part,  or  are  you  just 
making  mechanical  gestures  with  the  actress 
opposite  you?  " 

"Well,"  he  confessed,  "up  to  a  certain  point, 
I  am  thinking  of  the  camera,  and  all  that.  But 
at  that  certain  point— well,  after  all  when  one 
holds  a  lovely  woman  close,  and  gazes  into  her 
eyes,  and  whispers  sweet  things  to  her.  Say! 
don't  you  go  out  much,  or  what?'' 

Q. — Xow,  John,  when  you're  making  love  to 
a  woman,  aren't  there  certain  things  you  must 
bear  in  mind  not  to  do? 

A. — How  silly!  Don't  clutter  up  your  mind 
thinking  what  not  to  do.  Just  concentrate  on 
what  to  do. 

A  BOY  came  and  told  John  they  wanted  him 
back  on  the  set. 

"Before  you  go,"  we  insisted  (you  see  how 
we  work  for  you,  Obie?),  "isn't  there  some 
fundamental,  basic  rule  about  how  to  make 
love?" 

"Well,  it's  something  like  the  Einstein 
theory." 

"But  there  are  only  twelve  men  in  the  world 
who  fully  understand  that,"  we  protested. 

"Uh,  huh."  said  John. 

And  hurried  off. 


Gr-r-r-r-r! 


[  CONTINUED  EROM  PACE  66  ] 


isn't  half  as  much  your  acting  as  it  is  your 
pan."  And  as  soon  as  Wolheim's  desire  to 
have  the  nose  fixed  is  published,  his  public 
begins  writing  furious  fan  letters  imploring 
him  to  leave  the  nose  as  is. 

And  so  he  goes  on,  through  movie  after 
movie,  being  as  tough  as  his  face  looks — and 
that's  as  tough  as  a  thirty-five-cent  table 
d'hote  steak. 

AS  a  matter  of  fact — and  if  this  smashes  an 
illusion,  it's  too  bad!  —  Mr.  Wolheim  is 
fundamentally  as  hard  as  a  new-born  kitten. 
His  heart  is  as  big  as  his  salary  checks,  and 
as  soft  as  a  two-minute  egg.  But  his  nose 
and  that  face  have  done  strange  psychological 
things  to  him.  He  imagines  he  has  to  live 
up  to  them.  And  as  a  result,  he  has  cultivated 
a  personality  front  that  matches  his  nose  per- 
fectly, but  that  isn't  the  real  Louis  Wolheim 
at  all. 

For  instance:  he  swears  in  a  steady  sul- 
phurous blue  haze  over  anything  or  nothing 
and  at  any  time  and  under  any  circumstances 
for  no  other  reason  than  that  he  imagines  a 
guy  with  a  pan  like  his  talks  that  way.  The 
fact  is,  however,  that  he  has  a  mind  that  revels 
in  the  finest  beauties  of  literature  and  ex- 
quisite writings. 

A  N<  >TIIKR  thing:  he  professes  not  to  give  a 
-**-blistcring  series  of  asterisks  for  what  people 
think  about  him.  " T'hell  with  you,"  is  his 
attitude  toward  interviewers,  and  he  retorts 
"Rats!"  when  they  tell  him  he  ought  to  pose* 
for  publicity  pictures.  But  the  honest  truth 
of  it  is  that  he  secretly  reads  everything  that's 
printed  about  him,  if  his  most  intimate  friends 
are  to  be  believed,  and  likes  it. 

Hi's  ferociously  hard-bitten  about  his  whole 
appearance.    "I'm  me,  see?    And  if  they  don't 

118 


like  the  way  I  look,  they  can  go  blumpitty- 
blump-oops!  It's  my  face  and  what  the  so- 
and-so  do  I  care  what  those  such-and-suches 
think  about  it?" 

He  even  carries  the  attitude  to  the  point 
of  refusing  to  have  a  picture  of  himself  any- 
where in  sight.  Yet  the  actual  fact  is  that 
he's  as  tickled  as  a  baby  with  a  lollypop  if 
someone  mistakes  his  age  for  five  or  ten  years 
younger  than  he  really  is.  And,  for  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  one  day  he  sat  in  worshipfully  rapt 
admiration  of  a  striking  bust  of  himself  which 
a  sculptor  had  marvelously  made  from  pho- 
tographs. 

Wolheim  thought  it  was  swell. 

Yes,  yes.  Louis  Wolheim  likes  to  be  thought 
a  tough  bozo.  And  despite  all  his  profanity 
and  his  blustering  and  his  posing  and  that, 
his  friends  all  call  him  "Wolly" — pronounced 
"Wally."  And  you  know  darned  well  that  no 
truly  hard  guy  is  ever  going  to  be  called 
anything  as  silly  as  "Wolly." 

HK'S  an  interesting  person,  despite  (or  may- 
be because  of)  all  this  hard-guy  posturing. 
Born  in  New  York,  Wolly  is  a  Russian  Jew 
by  nativity,  who  has  gone  churchless  by  pref- 
ference.  But  he  has  a  religion  of  his  own 
that  attains  ultra-charitable  viewpoints.  He 
won't  go  hunting,  because  he  believes  it's  not 
sport  but  simple  cruelty,  and  he  won't  go 
fishing  for  the  same  reason.  "The  human 
race."  he  snarls,  "is  the  only  race  that  hurts 
and  kills  for  the  mere  pleasure  of  hurting  and 
■  killing." 

Vet  he  has  no  compunction  about  wallop- 
ing the  jar  off  a  fellow-human  if  he  believes 
the  fellow-human  rates  it.  Those  who,  in  his 
opinion,  rate  it  most  are  cads.  One  night,  at 
a  party,  he  overheard  a  guest  make  a  caddish 
remark  about  someone.     After  due  warning 


Wolly  uncorked  a  punch  that  drove  the  other 
fellow  right  through  a  bathroom  door  and 
into  a  tub  full  of  cold  water. 

He  revels  in  food.  He  particularly  likes 
hot  things,  like  chili  and  tamales  and  spices. 
He  goes  into  raptures  over  certain  foods,  mix- 
ing poesy  and  profanity  in  a  torrent  of  ad- 
miration. 

HE  is  probably  one  of  the  best  educated 
men  in  movies.  He  has  been  given  credit 
for  having  been  a  professor  at  Cornell  Univer- 
sity, but  as  a  matter  of  fact,  never  was.  He 
did  study  at  Cornell,  and  graduated  with 
several  degrees,  but  the  only  teaching  he  ever 
did  was  as  tutor  at  a  prep  school.  He  is  a 
wizard  at  mathematics. 

But  this  mania  for  mathematics  leads  him 
sadly  astray  when  he  tries  to  cash  in  on  it 
with  playing  cards.  He's  a  bridge  hound  of 
the  most  pronounced  type.  He'd  rather  play 
bridge  than  almost  anything  else,  and  does. 
He  plays  with  the  big  shots  of  Hollywood — 
Joe  Schenck  and  such  millionaires,  and  for 
anything  from  a  quarter  of  a  cent  a  point  to 
a  dollar  a  point  or  more!  Sometimes  he  wins, 
and  he's  a  good  winner.  Oftener,  he  loses, 
and  he's  a  good  loser,  too.  He  places  too  much 
trust  in  his  knowledge  of  numbers  while  play- 
ing cards. 

WHILE  bridge  is  his  favorite,  he  likes  a 
whack  at  poker  now  and  then.  It  cost  him 
plenty  in  Butte,  Montana,  once.  Butte  is  one 
of  those  still-old-time  Western  towns  where 
gamblers  are  gamblers.  On  location  recently 
with  a  Radio  Pictures'  troupe,  Wolly  barged 
into  Butte's  night  life  one  week-end  with  the 
announcement  that  he'd  like  to  take  on  the 
boys  for  a  whirl  at  the  pasteboards. 

They  accommodated  him,  and  when  the  blue 


past,  Wollj 
p. Mm  i      Mr  prefen  bridge,  now,  noon  than 

TIM    man  ia  physically  feai  ,  ally 

in  defense  ol  bis  prim  iples 
during  the  war,  he  w.is  taking  an  "j 
training  course  al  Camp  Zachary  1 . i >  t < » r .  in 
■.  illr,  Kentucky,  when  the  war  ended, 
Wolly  was  still  in  training.  He  asked  for  an 
immediate  discharge,  rather  than  complete 
the  <  ourse. 

"Hell,  he's  a  quitter  I"  sneered  the  other 
war-enthused  trainers.     "Why  don't  h> 
.mil    finish    the   course    like    us,    instrad   of 
quittii 

"\\hi>  says  I'm  a  quitter?"  roared  Wolly. 

"I've  done   my  l>it   while  the  war  was  on, 

the  war's  over,  and    I'm   through,  and 

I'll  lick  any  so  and  ■><>  whatchumaycallem  who 

wants  to  make  anything  of  it." 

HE   ticked   three  of   them,   .mil   took   his 
immediate  discharge. 
He's  generous  with  his  money,  and  jealous 
of  his  spot  on  the  screen.    Anybody  can  hit 

him  for  a  loan  anil  get  it,  hut  if  anybody  tries 
to  steal  a  seene  from  him,  Wollv's  liable  to 
spank!  He  has  an  old  pensioner  whom  he's 
keeping  for  years.  Ask  him  why,  anil 
W'ollv  answers;   "Aw,  you   know      I've  gotten 

so  used  to  it  that  I  can't  help  it  "     Fact  is. 


PHOTOPl  M    M  u.\/im  i  i      1       1 

main  s  i  art  ago,  the  1' 

I  toll  I 

II 
toplinera  who  i 


L[ONl  l   K\l:l\  M<> 
p  U  I  mi  ■ 

He  did  so  well  that,  imi 

he   M 

1 1'\,  ill  play,   md  1 

then 

He  ta\  i  h< ' 
in  liis  life 
His  ambition  is  t>>  make  enough  mora 

thai  i    this 

i  ontinenl  ofl  i  In  Europe 

for  the  rest  of  his  hie    He  plans  a  i  Omfoi  I 

idle  sunset  ol  life  with  his  wife,  whom 
absolutely  eras)  about     sl« 'v  ,i  tiny  woi 
weighs  less  than  a  hundred,  ami  is  quite  frail 
levoted  to  her. 

A  \  I »  he  doesn't  give  two  hoots  in  ,i cyt  lone 
-*  Mor  any  other  woman    Notbt  thinks 

he's  handicapped  by  that   face,  but   simply 
because  he's  not  interested  in  them.     v 

times  his  friends  ki<l  him 

"AW,  hell,  Wolly."  they'll  tell  him.  "That's 
all  a  stall.  Xo  woman  would  fall  for  a  f.u  c 
like  that:" 

"Yeah?"  grins  Wolly.     "Well,  listen,  lots 

of  dames  fall  for  guys  like  Ub!" 


By  Time  and  Tears 


i  "MINI  I.I)  FKllM   1' 


-he  had.  whatever  thought  of 
her  own,  were  simple  reflections  of  her  father's 
mind. 

She  did  her  task  upon  the  screen,  lent  her 
pastel  beauty  to  the  camera  and  remained  a 
child. 

\  TARY  was  typed.  The  directors  saw  her 
•"■■■only  as  the  meek  little  heroine.  The 
thought  that  she  might,  just  by  chance,  In- 
growing up  did  not  occur  to  them. 

And  even  her  marriage  did  not  change  their 
viewpoint  of  her. 

She  was  a  beautiful  little  girl  accompanied 
by  her  father. 

But  during  this  period  Mary  was  beginning 
to  listen  to  the  deep  harmony  of  life.  Her 
ears  had  become  attuned  to  torrents  of  emo- 
tion she  had  not  known.  What  happens  to 
people  when  they  begin  to  perceive  is  difficult 
to  explain.  It  is  a  gradual  process,  a  slashing 
away  of  dead  beliefs,  a  gathering  of  fresh  new- 
theories.  Slowly  the  world  opened  up  to 
Mary,  yet  the  directors  knew  her  as  one  thing 
and  would  not  give  her  a  chance  to  do  any- 
thing else. 

The  styles  in  film  heroines  had  changed. 
They  were  not  so  long-suffering.  They  were 
smart,  modern  young  women.  But  nobody- 
bothered  to  find  out  that  Mary  Astor  was 
becoming  a  smart,  modern  young  woman  and, 
because  nobody  bothered  to  find  out.  she  was 
put  upon  the  shelf  and  did  not  do  a  piece  of 
screen  work  for  eighteen  months! 

S  desperate  was  she.  so  lonesome  for  the 
sets  and  the  studios,  that  she  even  humbled 
herself  by  writing  discreet  notes  to  casting 
directors  explaining  that  she  was  at  liberty. 
This  did  not  avail. 

•THEN  two  things  happened  suddenly.  She 
•*■  managed  to  get  a  job  in  a  stage  play. 
Kenneth  Hawks  was  killed. 

She  did  not  flaunt  her  grief.  Instead  she 
went  to  a  quiet  apartment  and  there  tried  to 
think  out  a  way  to  catch  up  the  loose  threads 
of  her  life. 

Producers  had  seen  her  in  the  play.  They 
had  discovered  that  her  voice  had  depth  and 
charm. 


She  was  given  a  contract  and  bravely  she 
began   a    new   career. 

T  ADIES  Love  Brutes."  her  first  talkie,  was 
•'-'made  shortly  after  the  accident.  It  washer 
first  picture  for  a  year  and  a  half.  She  . 
woman  now.  but  she  had  not  become  one 
suddenly.  The  talkies  showed  her  for  what 
she  was  because  one  can't  hide  maturity  in  a 
voice. 

She  did  not  speak  like  a  child.    She  no  longer 
acted   like   one   upon    the   screen.     And    when 
she  went  from  picture  to  picture  in  quick  BUC- 
in,    each    time    proving    herself    a    better 
and   a   more   capabli  Mian    before,    it 

was  the  obvious  thir  Igedy 

had  brought  about   the  chang 

But  it  wasn't  that.  It  was  merely  that  over 
a  period  of  two,  perhaps  three,  years  she  had 
become  adult. 

She  was  no  longer  the  child  prodigy  <>f  a 
high  school  prof, 

She  was  no  longer  the  young  wife  of  a  rising 
director. 

She  was  Mary  Astor.  an  entity.  Mary 
Astor.  a  person. 

You  saw  her  in  "Holiday."  You  know  what 
she  has  to  give. 

She  is  a  line  actress  As  a  person  she  is 
magnificent. 

There    is    no    sentimental    clutching 
grief.     It  is  all  a  part   of  her  life 

She  was  happy  with  Kenneth  Hawks.  She 
loved  him. 

That  does  not  mean  that  she  might  not  be 
happy  with  somebody  else;  that  she  might  not 
love  again. 

She  knows  these  thin_-s. 

Her  mind  is  as  true  as  an  arrow.    Life  is  her 
bull's-eye.   and   she   means   to    hit    her   mark. 
She  takes  life  in  her  hands,  as  if  it  were  a 
of  clay,  and  moulds  it  for  her  happii 
is  free.    She  is  a  vital  woman. 

T\~    her   contract   with    Radio    Pk 

-*-glories. 

Each  new-  film  is  a  thrilling  adventure,  j 
each  new  demand  of  life  is. 

Head  up.  chin  out.  mind  clear.  Mary  Astor. 
the  woman,  meets  the  world! 


FREE 


'A 


i  oMi-i  i  1 1    ii.,i 

!■.  fautamll  «hal 

-  .mm  lniu« 


GRAY 
HAIR 
GONE 


■  m 


\\  li  >     I 

i  i*n"» 
woy  I*  entirety  :\\  i'i 

liquid  throuKh  the 
I  ill    ooloi 
I   '.If. 
We  don't  ask  fou  t,.  buy.    Wt  only  a«k 
that  rr  • 

lock  or  i 
way.     y.in   luiv.    nothing   to   i 

take    no    risk.     U  •  REE    a    • 

pit  t-  Mail   li., 

I'leaac  Cur  C«u[hiii  for  Mtl  I.    Ilsl    IM'hv'.l 


MARY  T.  GOLDMAN! 


St.  Paul,  Minn.    ' 


PHOTOS 
ENLARGED 

Sire  lsi  20  Inchet 


SEND    NO    MONEY 

.   :,    rl  -,-h  ,  ..~«  .         .     I 

♦nlaiaaw naiaiaeltjtjpai  rw        | 
•MMd  faailia».     PW  mf  an 
Mr  pkm  l"U.>  er  ama  II. 00 


witaardaraad  wa  par  poatajra. 

Special  Free  0«c 

•fd  lainiat  ir»  .  . 
<J«cti«»a«'|»lK*n«-»*.t   T*k-*i 
unlHf     -*■-   of 

UNITED  PORTRAIT  COMPANY 
10«  W.  Ljk*  St..  Dept.A-Ul.  Ctiicjaa.  III. 

BUNIOXS 

Now  Dissolved 

■*  yon  to  wear 

fREE: 
B-V  o.lll. 

^        1223  S.  War  r-..2» 


jtytfRL-t  YSDramaDance 


Plata 

l^-'x'r*  IWi  -:  aapaai 
l«a  Tracy.  Fr*d  aad  Aa*a 

lr"in.  AlTiene  t  ni 


When  you  write  to  a  potion  rnOTOrT.AT  M  \' 


A  Great  Trouper  Comes  to  Town 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  59  ] 


glows  with  the  joy  of  living.    There  is  nothing 
of  the  tired  cynic  about  her. 

Character  readers  tell  us  that  our  deeds 
and  thoughts  are  traced  out  over  our  noses, 
mouths  and  chins  like  a  map.  You  cannot  find 
in  Marjorie  Ramheau's  lineless,  beautiful  face 
any  signs  of  careless  living.  Those  clear,  blue 
eyes,  those  firm  cheeks,  that  piquant  mobile 
mouth — if  she  has  lived  as  unwisely  as  some 
have  said,  then  I  wish  she  would  tell  me  her 
secret. 

THE  look  on  Marjorie  Rambeau's  face  is  not 
put  there  by  a  beauty  expert.  It  comes 
from  within.  And  if  she  took  what  life  offered 
her — she  took  it  charmingly. 

She  is  without  pose.  She  hates  posing  in 
others.  Her  judgment  of  human  nature  is 
as  keen  as  a  razor.  I  somehow  have  the  feel- 
ing that  you  could  not  lie  to  Marjorie  Ram- 
beau. 


And  I  also  believe  that  you  could  tell  her 
anything  and  she  would  understand. 

T_TER  life  has  begun  again.  She  has  known 
-*-  ■'every  branch  of  the  theatrical  profession, 
stock,  long  runs,  guest  stardom,  vaudeville. 
Now  she  has  just  signed  a  long-term  contract 
with  Metro-Gold wyn Mayer.  Like  every  stage 
trouper  I  know,  she  is  naively  thrilled  at  the 
chance  to  go  to  bed  early  and  to  get  up  in  the 
morning,  to  have  a  real  house  with  a  strip  of 
lawn  in  front  of  it. 

She  is  fascinated  by  the  mechanics  of  pic- 
tures and  everything  concerned  with  the  life  at 
the  studio. 

Hut  the  great  film  stars,  who  strut  out 
their  little  hour  before  the  cameras,  aren't 
fooling  Marjorie.  She  makes  no  unnecessary 
genutlexions.  She  has  seen  too  much  of  life 
not  to  be  able  to  distinguish  the  real  from  the 
false. 


She  is  playing  a  role  now  in  Greta  Garbo's 
picture,  "Inspiration,"  and  on  the  set  the 
other  actors  cluster  about  her  to  bask  in  the 
warmth  of  her  charm.  Xot  long  ago  the  com- 
pany sat  waiting  for  the  arrival  of  Garbo. 
The  older  actors  were  discussing  old  times, 
the  younger  ones  listening.  One  of  the  men 
mentioned  a  trouper  that  all  knew.  He  said, 
"But  he  was  a  bad  Indian.  He  was  always 
drunk  and  getting  himself  into  messes." 

Marjorie  Rambeau  sat  still  for  a  second 
and  then  she  said,  very  slowly,  "Don't  say 
that  unless  you're  quite,  quite  sure  it's  true." 

I-'or  she  has  suffered  from  gossip.  She  has 
seen  herself  head-lined.  And  from  her  suffer- 
ing she  has  learned  life's  greatest  lesson — 
tolerance. 

TvTO  more  remarkable  woman  has  ever  graced 
■L^  a  stage.  Hollywood  should  be'proud  to  know 
that  her  new  life  is  beginning  in  its  studios. 


She  Eats  and  Tells! 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  4(1 


beans  and — surprise! — turnips.  Bet  you  never 
thought  a  lowly  turnip  was  admitted  into  a 
star's  home.  Then  there  was  ice  cream,  cake 
and  coffee. 

There  is  always  coffee  at  Betty's  house. 
Rivers  of  it.  It  was  served  at  dinner  right  at 
the  table,  just  like  ordinary  folks,  and  then 
when  we  went  into  the  living  room  the  maid 
put  a  coffee  table  between  us  and  it  was 
served  again. 

The  next  morning  we  had  coffee  at  breakfast 
and  again  immediately  after  breakfast.  It  was 
given  to  us  before  we  went  to  bed.  She  says 
it  helps  her  go  to  sleep. 

Without  a  word  from  Betty  the  maid  appears 
with  coffee  and  coffee  table  and  there  you  are. 

I  NOTICED  that  Betty  seemed  nervous  and 
every  time  the  'phone  rang  she  jumped  as  if 
a  director  had  yelled  "Cut!'' 

"I'm  expecting  a  call  from  Harry,"  she  ex- 
plained. 

"But  you  said  he  was  in  London." 

"He  is,"  said  Betty. 

I  couldn't  imagine  just  chatting  in  a  friendly 
way  between  Hollywood  and  London.  Could 
you  bear  saying,  "How  are  you,  dear?  So  glad 
to  hear  your  voice?"  No!  Ten  thousand 
times  no!  You've  got  to  talk  about  disarma- 
ment and  what's  wrong  with  the  motion 
pictures. 

I  was  pretty  excited  when  the  call  came 
through.  Betty  talked  hours,  it  seemed  to 
me,  and   how   much  is  it  a  minute? 

When  she  returned  she  said,  "Harry  lied  to 
me.  I  know  he  did.  He's  got  a  cold  and  when 
I  asked  him  if  he  had  he  said  he  didn't.  But  I 
could  tell  by  his  voice." 

".Maybe  it  was  static,"  I  suggested.  I'm  so 
scientific. 

"No,  it  wasn't." 

And  t hat's  what  they  talk  about  between 
I. one  Ion  and  Hollywood. 

It  was  one  of  those  hot  nights  that  some- 
times come  in  October.  It  was  sultry,  with  no 
wind  stirring.  We  played  Russian  Bank  but 
we  were  both  nervous.  Betty  had  brought  the 
big  black  police  dog  inside. 

Nig  stalked  about  the  house  and  made  low, 
guttural  sounds. 

At  last  Betty  arose.  "There's  a  night  watch- 
man outside,  but  Xig  is  acting  strangely,  I'm 
going  to  see  what  it's  all  about." 

ISO 


Of  course,  I  know  she's  played  in  a  lot  of 
gangster  pictures  but  when  I  saw  her  with  that 
revolver  she  got  out  of  a  drawer  in  the  den  I 
wasn't  any  too  comfortable.  I  was  much  more 
afraid  of  Betty  and  the  pistol  than  of  any 
burglar  in  the  world.  But  I  went  with  her 
(that  is,  I  followed  her,  a  good  ten  paces 
behind).  Even  that  was  preferable  to  staying 
in  and  maybe  being  shot  at  through  the 
window. 

A  tour  of  the  grounds  revealed  nothing  but 
the  night  watchman  nodding  in  the  garage. 

When  we  got  back  Betty  put  the  gun  on  the 
radio.  After  a  couple  of  hours  it  didn't  bother 
me. 

The  stillness  and  the  heat  put  us  in  a  strange 
mood  and  I've  discovered  that  the  time  to 
catch  people  talking  about  the  things  closest 
their  hearts  is  at  night  'too  bad  I  can't  make 
all  my  interviews  after  midnight). 

Betty  began,  "I  had  the  most  marvelous 
dream  the  other  night.  I  thought  that  there 
was  a  great  earthquake  that  shook  down  all  of 
Hollywood  except  this  house  and  destroyed 
everybody  but  me  and  I  remember  that  I 
stood  in  the  midst  of  the  ruin  and  instead  of 
being  upset  about  it  I  was  glorified.  Shivers  of 
delight  ran  up  and  down  my  spine.  My  whole 
being  was  enthralled  by  the  tremendous 
aloneness." 

TF  it  weren't  so  obvious,  a  psycho-analyst 
-'-would  have  a  lot  of  fun  with  that.  But  you 
can  figure  that  dream  with  half  your  brain. 
Betty  i^  a  lone  wolf.  Although  she  has  great 
admiration  for  the  spritely  young  person  who 
can  walk  into  a  room  with  an  apt  and  easy 
comment  for  all  assembled,  she  has  no  genius 
for  it  herself. 

Betty  sees  life  as  it  is.  neither  sugar-coated 
nor  wrapped  in  a  cloak  of  cynicism.  She  has 
more  genuine  courage  for  living  than  any  other 
person  I  know. 

Bits  of  things  we  talked  about.  Fragments. 
Betty  wandered  from  subject  to  subject. 

"I  wonder  why  I  keep  on  making  pictures. 
Perhaps  I  think  some  day  I'll  make  a  good  one. 

"Harry  Edwards  is  the  one  ideal  man  for 
me.  He  has  a  great  wealth  of  sympathy.  We 
like  doing  the  same  things.  Sometimes  I  wake 
up  in  the  middle  of  the  night  and  want  to 
walk,  particularly  if  it  is  raining.  He  doesn't 
think  me  mad.    tie  walks  with  me. 


"Marriage  is  grand  when  you've  someone 
who  understands  you.  I've  always  been  so 
alone  and  loved  it.  Even  when  I  was  married 
to  Bernard  Fineman  I  was  alone.  An  ex- 
ecutive's life  takes  him  away. 

"But  with  Harry  it's  different.  We  have  so 
much  fun  together. 

"I  do  not  play  the  social  game  in  Hollywood. 
You  become  too  involved.  I  like  whom  I  like 
no  matter  what  they  are  or  what  they  have  done. 

"Yet  I  like  to  live  well.  The  friendly  gesture 
of  cocktails  before  dinner.  A  fire  glowing  on 
the  hearth.  A  well  set  table  bristling  with 
silver,  and  nice  talk. 

"Harry  and  I  hope  to  live  in  Europe  one 
day." 

Betty  calls  herself  "Old  Ma  Brent"  because 
so  many  people  come  to  her  with  their  troubles. 
And  they  receive  from  her  not  saccharine 
kindness,  but  a  keen  analysis  of  the  situation. 

It  was  very  late  when  we  went  to  bed  at  last 
and  yet  Betty  left  a  call  for  ten  in  the  morning, 
because  we  had  decided  to  go  to  her  beach 
house  at  Malibu  and  sit  in  the  ocean. 

Breakfast  at  the  Brent  house  is  an  experi- 
ence. It  consists  of  an  enormous  glass  of 
grape  fruit  juice,  stacks  and  stacks  of  tiny 
griddle  cakes,  little  pig  sausage  and  pots  of 
coffee. 

When  we  set  off  in  a  long  nosed  touring  car 
Betty,  in  a  white  dress,  socks,  flat-heeled  shoes, 
beret  and  a  pair  of  dark  glasses,  looked  about 
as  much  like  a  picture  star  as  Cal  Coolidge. 

At  the  beach  place  people  were  already  there 
and  Betty  dragged  out  bathing  suits.  She's 
an  expert  swimmer  and  is  utterly  without  fear 
in  the  water. 

Afterwards  we  sat  around  in  wet  bathing 
suits  on  the  best  chairs.  Betty  believes:  Do 
what  you  please.  Have  a  good  time.  Don't 
be  burdened  with  conventions  and  public 
opinions  and  all  the  meaningless  gestures  that 
clutter  up  life. 

WE   opened   huge  cans  of  spaghetti   and 
beans,  and  made  coffee  and,  in  the  cool  of 
the  evening,  drove  back. 

"How  about  staying  tonight?"  asked  Betty. 

But  already  I  was  reminding  myself  of  the 

guest  who  came  for  dinner  and  stayed  a  year. 

"I've  had  a  swell  time,"  said  Betty.    "Call 

me  up  sometime  and  ask  me  to  go  to  another 

fashion  show." 


PbOTOPI  w    M  \..\/im     i  01   J  INI   UtY,    1       1 


l  2  I 


Short  Subjects 

of  the  Month 

IF  there  aren't  any  new  notion^  among  thi>  month's  shorts, 
there  is  a  lot  of  entertainment. 

Metro's  smart  dog  comedies  ami  Mack  Sennett'a  come* 
elians — especially  Aoi.lv  Clyde — continue  to  he  real  laugh* 
makers.  The  short  comet.lv  field  continues  to  show  growth 
in  resourcefulness  and  showmanship. 


.1  HOLLYWOOD  THEME  SONG 

Sennett- Educational 
An  uproarious  burlesque  on  Lhemesongitis  as 
it  aillicts  the  movies,  Gdusic-plagued  picture 
fans  should  get  down  on  their  hunkers  and 
render  thanks  unto  Sennett  tor  this  comedy. 
Harry  Gribbon,  Patsy  O'l.cary,  Yola  D'Avril 
and  a  bunch  of  song  writers  do  wonders  under 
Bill  Beaudine's  direction. 

THE  DOG  WAY  MELODY 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 

Metro's  marvelous  canine  comics  surpass 
their  previous  efforts  in  this  burlesque  of  "The 
Broadway  Melody,"  this  company's  great  hit 
of  the  1928  season.  The  smash  of  the  picture 
is  the  dogs'  version  of  "Singin1  in  the  Rain." 
using  the  original  sound  track  made  by  the 
Brox  Sisters  and  Cliff  Edwards. 

GO  TO  BLAZES 

Universal 
The  veteran  comedy  team  of  Charlie  Murray 
and  George  Sidney  work  perfectly  in  these  Uni- 
versal shorts,  and  this  one  is  full  of  chuckles. 
This  one  has  to  do  with  fun  in  a  lirehouse,  with 
Charlie  and  George  taking  a  young  fireman's 
place  while  he  goes  holidaying.  A  good  noisy 
comedy. 

PA   GETS  A    VACATION 
Warners-VUaphone  Variety 

This  Potters  series,  featuring  Lucien  Little- 
field  as  "  Pa  Potter."  holds  up  well.  They  are 
probably  the  best  satires  on  domestic  griefs 
and  woes  that  sound  pictures  have  yet  deliv- 
ered. This  one,  though  one  of  the  milder  of 
the  lot,  is  still  a  good  companion  piece  for  a 
feature. 

A  FALL  TO  ARMS 
Darmour-Radio  Pictures 
Ludicrous  Louise  Fazenda  still  takes  her 
slapstick  big.  In  this  she  mixes  macksennett 
technique  with  a  lot  of  new  airplane  gags  and 
is  guaranteed  to  put  you  in  stitches.  The  pic- 
ture speeds  along  at  a  fast  clip,  and  the  laughs 
are  good  for  youngsters,  adults  and  rice  versa. 

FLOWER  GARDEN 
Mekro-Geidwyn-Mayer 

An  opulent  and  expensive  short  remindful  of 
the  talkies'  early  days.  A  lavish  llash  act  in 
color,  with  Cliff  Edwards,  Lottice  Howell,  some 
dancers  and  a  chorus  of  thirty.  Cliff  sells  a 
couple  of  songs  for  a  hit,  and  the  short  can  be- 
rated as  pleasant.     But  not  worth  the  outlay. 

THE  BLUFFER 

Sen  nctt-Ed  neat  ional 
Here's  a  short  in  the  new  Sennett-Color 
which  is  fascinatingly  beautiful  in  the  matter  of 
its  under-water  photography.  It's  a  one-reel 
comedy,  and  darned  well  done,  all  about  two 
boys,  a  girl  and  an  irascible  pop — plaved  bv 
the  great  Andy  Clyde.  Patsy  O'Lcary— wha't 
an  eyeful! 


BELOW  ZERO 
II. i!  Roach- M-G-M 

Laurel  and  Hardy  -core  again  in  this  com- 
edy this  time  playing  a  couple  of  wandering 
musicians  in  a  snowstorm.  Laurel  plays  a  toy 
organ  and  Oliver  Hardy  smacks  the  Stril 
a  bull  fiddle.  The  only  tune  the  boys  can  play 
i-  "  In  the  Good  Old  Summer  Time!"  Plenty 
laughs. 

THE  SPELL  OF  THE  CIRCUS 

Universal 

Universal  has  another  good  go  at  getting  the 

kids  back  into  the  theaters  with  this  bang-up 

chapter  play  full  of  circus  stuff  and  atmosphere. 

The  featured  players  are  Francis  X.  Bushman, 

;fr.,and  Alberta  Vaughn.    The  storyis  about  the 
ad  who  runs  away  and  becomes  a  great  rider. 

THE  RACKET  CHEERS 
Scnnctt- Educational 
It  seems  to  be  Andy  Clyde's  month.  At  any 
rate,  he's  in  again,  in  another  fast-moving  Sen- 
nett short.  Andy  lure  plays  a  goof  who  owns 
a  yacht  and  gets  into  a  battle  with  the  United 
States  Navy  by  mistake.  And  he's  line,  as  al- 
ways. Old  Chief  Sennett  seems  to  grow  better 
and  better. 

LOXEL  Y  GIGOLO 
Warners-VUaphone  Variety 
Nine  minutes  of  Technicolor  in  which  T.otti 
I.oder,  the  little  Viennese  of  whom  Warners 
expected  much,  sings  two  numbers.  She  also 
does  a  couple  of  not  too  startling  dance  rou- 
tines. The  tiny  girl  is  surrounded  by  a  group 
of  tall  chorines.  This  is  not  an  especially  thrill- 
ing short. 

RAZORED  IX  OLD  KENTUCKY 

Radio  Pictures 
Xick  Basil  and  Tony  Armetta,  two  wander- 
ing Wops,  find  themselves  in  the  middle  of  a 
good  old  Kentucky  feud,  after  setting  up  a 
barber  shop  in  what  turns  out  to  be  no-man's- 
land  in  this  family  warfare.  Razors  prove  to 
be  mightier  than  bullets,  and  all  ends  quite 
hilariously. 

'  MR.  INTRUDER 
Warners-VUaphone  Variety 

A  very  clever  one  reeler  with  a  real  idea  in 
it.  Otto  Kruger.  a  legitimate  stage  star,  plays 
an  editor  in  search  of  a  story.  Coming  home, 
he  finds  his  wife  '  Ycrree  Teasdalcl  and  a 
"friend"  (Alan  Brooks'  having  an  affair.  It's 
not  only  his  story,  but  grounds  for  a  divorce. 
Smartly  done. 

WHILE  THE  CAPTAIN  WAITS 
Paramount 
A  'it tie  one-reel  musical  piece  which  features 
Armida.  the  little  Mexican  girl.  The  scene  is 
aboard  an  ocean  liner.  While  the  hoity-toity 
ship's  concert  is  on.  Armida  entertains  the 
steerage  with  her  songs  and  dances.  Armida 
here  dances  better  than  she  sings.  Mild  enter- 
tainment. 


Hotel 
mbassador 

The  Ambassador 
Hotel  is  represent- 
ative of  everything 
that  the  finest 
hostelry  can  be  in 
location,charm,ex- 
cellence  of  menus 
and  service. 

There  are  always 
celebrities  of  the 
screen  world  at 
The  Ambassador. 
It  is  in  the  social 
center  on  one  of 
the  world's  most 
famous  thorough- 
fares. 

NEW      Y  O  fc  K 

■    PARK    AVE  N  UE 
AT  51st  STREET 

ATLANTIC  CITY  •  PALM  BEACH  •  LOS  AMOILCS 

£<mu,y)fomm 
CUumyi  (IttAacb 

The  women  you  most  admire,  and  perhaps 
envy,  prize  their  beauty  and  guard  it.  Their 
lustrous  eyes  and  clear  skin  are  the  result  of 
daily  care.  Above  all  else,  these  women  keep 
their  blood  free  of  the  poisons  of  constipation. 
Thousands  of  such  women  find  Dr.  Ed- 
Olive  Tablets  a  matchless  corrective.  Made 
of  pure  vegetable  ingredients.  Know  them 
by  their  olive  color.  They  are  a  safe  substi- 
tute for  dangerous  calomel.  Not  habit- 
forming.  All  druggists,  15c,  30c  and  60c. 

^fauj^OLlVE  TABLETS 


High  School  Course 
in  2  Years 


con 
fi«d   II  i  c  b 
,r»  »t  basse 


.....         ■    ■- 

AMERICAN    SC 

H.  H-14  3.  Orvial  Aw.  ft  9|I*>  SL  V 


IOOL 


IUTICURA 

Soap  for  daily  u-e. 

OilllllMMlf  to  heal  skin  irritations. 

Talcum  ideal  after  bathins. 

-  ?rr-.r'c  free- 
Address  -CnUrarv"  Dept  7B, 
MAld'C  Mm. 


DENISON'S 

PLAYS 


_    ,i .-.-.<-. _       ... 

5  3    /ettas.  Vaodenlle  Acta, 
i  'EA0J/  Minstrels.  Comedy 
IT5'  Songs.  Make-cp  Goods. 
Cjti'oi  Free 


T.S.Den!son»Co.623  S.Watwsh,  Dept.76 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  plesse  mention  rilOTOPLAT  lfAOAZlXE. 


Amos  V  Andy  Go  Hollywood 


CONTINUED  KKOM  PAGE  79  ] 


Andy  leaves  the  typewriter  to  join  Amos  in 
the  pacing!  They  argue.  "Andy  wouldn't  say 
8  tiling  like  lli.it."  ("orrell  growls.  "And  Andy 
wouldn't  say  that."  Gosden  retorts. 

They  glare  at  each  other  like  two  Bengal 
tigers. 

They  resume  their  pacing.  They  remark  to 
the  world  in  general  that  of  all  the  fatheads 
they  ever  knew, some  one  right  in  that  room  is 
the  worst.    They  glare  again. 

SUDDEXLY  inspiration  comes.  They  wring 
each  other's  hands  and  each  declares  the 
other  the  best  fellow  alive.  Andy  runs  to  the 
typewriter.  It's  coming.  At  last  it's  finished 
and  another  episode  is  ready  for  the  air. 

They  emerge  arm  in  arm,  grinning  and  well 
pleased,  only  to  go  through  the  same  perform- 
ance the  next  day. 

Only  a  friendship  as  deep  as  these  two  pos- 
sess could  survive  such  a  nerve-racking  but 
comical  performance. 

Very  often  their  own  experiences  will  furnish 
material  for  several  episodes.  "  For  instance," 
Andy  said,  "that  business  of  the  suit  of  clothes 
being  'way  too  big;  that  actually  happened  to 
me.  A  wos  [they  constantly  refer  to  each  other 
by  their  radio  names]  had  gone  with  me  to 
select  the  suit  just  as  we  did  on  the  radio,  and 
he  went  along  when  I  returned  it,  too." 

Often  well-meaning  friends  offer  suggestions. 
"Why  don't  you  take  the  boys  up  in  an  air- 
plane or  down  in  a  submarine?"  they'll  ask. 
"That  would  be  a  scream." 

"It  probably  would  be  funny,  but  that 
wouldn't  be  Amos  V  Andy.    What  would  two 


poor  old  colored  boys  be  doing  up  in  an  air- 
plane, for  instance — or  in  a  submarine?  It's 
the  last  place  they  would  go.  We  have  to 
sacrifice  a  lot  of  good  fun  in  order  to  keep  the 
boys  strictly  in  character." 

They  stoutly  refuse  to  step  out  of  character 
in  the  picture,  too.  Pleas  and  petitions  were 
all  in  vain. 

"  Hut  Amos  V  Andy  wouldn't  do  anything 
like  that,"  they  would  argue.  "We  don't  ex- 
aggerate them  in  our  skits;  why  try  to  slapstick 
them  in  the  picture?" 

At  last  they  were  persuaded  to  try  one 
sequence  the  way  the  script  was  written.  The 
scene  was  a  haunted  house.  All  the  moss- 
covered  gags  were  brought  into  play.  Amos' 
hair  was  made  to  stand  wildly  on  end.  Andy 
was  prostrated  with  two  inward  convulsions 
and  three  outward.  After  the  rushes  that  eve- 
ning they  stood  on  the  steps  and  said  very 
quietly,  "That  never  was  Amos  and  it  wasn't 
Andy.  We  know  the  boys  and  that  just  wasn't 
them." 

"pi  X ALLY  they  succeeded  in  doing  the  scene 
-L  over.  Strictly  in  character,  A  mos  was  frankly 
and  honestly  afraid  but  going  ahead,  Andy 
petrified  but  blustering  through.  There  were 
no  tricks  or  gags. 

The  studio  admitted  they  were  right.  It  was 
Amos  V  Andy  for  sure. 

They  are  as  shrewd  as  any  successful  men  of 
business. 

They  know  instantly  what  makes  good  pub- 
licity and  what  doesn't. 

Their  publicity  manager  would  occasionally 


be  seized  with  what  he  thought  a  particularly 
brilliant  piece  of  publicity. 

"That's  out,"  one  of  them  would  say  in- 
stantly. 

And  they  could  immediately  put  their 
fingers  on  the  flaw  and  show  just  why  that 
certain  piece  of  publicity  might  not  be  so  good 
in  the  future. 

They  look  ahead  constantly. 

TpEDEY  are  ardent  radio  fans  and  have  a  radio 
*■  on  their  set  which  goes  constantly  between 
scenes. 

They  receive  thousands  and  thousands  of 
letters  from  old,  young,  rich  and  poor. 

"  \  ou  remember?"  Amos  asked,  "when  it 
looked  as  if  my  seventy-fi'  dollars  was  gone 
forever?  Well,  I  received  money  from  all  over 
the  country.  Even  little  children  had  emptied 
their  banks  and  sent  it  to  me.  Of  course  I  had 
to  send  it  all  back,  but  it  surely  did  touch  me  to 
see  how  good  every  one  was  to  old  A  mos." 

And  the  funny  thing  is  the  boys  went  com- 
pletely Hollywood.  Went  with  an  abandon 
that  was  eye-popping  to  behold.  They  swam 
in  all  the  marble-tiled  swimming  pools,  roamed 
through  all  the  palatial  but  slightly  mortgaged 
mansions,  rode  in  all  the  hysterically  uphol- 
stered Rolls-Royces. 

They  Brown  Derbied  at  luncheon  and 
Henry'd  at  dinner.  They  even  ventured  out 
in  the  suburbs  to  trout  fish  with  Noah  Beer/ 
and  pony-back  ride  with  Bill  Hart. 

They  had  a  grand  time,  and  now  that  they're 
gone,  is  Hollywood  blue,  I  ask  you? 

Check  that,  and  Double  Check  it! 


ct 


Willy"  to  His  Mother 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  65  ] 


saw  the  light  of  day  when  Bill  was  twelve  years 
old.  These  letters  are  the  most  amazing  things 
to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Powell.  They  are  of  a  digni- 
fied generation  and  they  can't  understand  how 
strangers  can  write  such  things. 

Every  year,  Bill,  through  his  father,  makes 
out  a  sizeable  check  to  the  Los  Angeles  Com- 
munity Chest.  He  prefers  doing  that  all  in  a 
lump,  rather  than  distributing  his  charities 
piecemeal  throughout  the  year. 

Horatio  Warren  Powell  is  a  big  fellow.  Bill 
inherits  his  appearance  as  well  as  his  first 
name.  It  is  William  Horatio  Powell,  just  in 
case  you've  wondered  what  the  initial  H.  stood 
for.     Or  maybe  you  haven't  wondered  at  all. 

XX"RS.  POWELL  is  a  pretty,  gracious  little 
•'■''•'-lady,  weighing  just  115  pounds.  She 
weighed  considerably  less  than  that  when  she 
lived  in  Kansas  City. 

California  agrees  with  her.  On  the  other 
hand  Mr.  Powell  weighed  considerably  more 
when  he  lived  in  the  Midwest 

It  is  Mrs.  Powell  that  answers  the  telephone 
in  the  Powell  apartment.  She  takes  the 
messages  for  Bill  and  relays  them  to  him. 
Although  she  has  never  met  many  of  his 
friends  she  has  quite  a  telephone  acquaintance 
with  them.  She  almost  feels  that  she  knows 
Richard  Barthclmess  even  if  she  has  never 
seen  him. 

She  takes  the  studio  calls,  arranges  inter- 
view appointments,  and  accepts  or  rejects  in- 
vitations— all  after  a  conference  with  the 
president  of  the  business. 

When  Bill  has  an  early  call  at  the  studio 
she  awakens  him.  For  years  she  has  been 
accustomed  to  waking  at  seven  o'clock,  so  an 

m 


early  call  is  no  inconvenience  to  her.  She 
brings  him  his  orange  juice  and  coffee. 

"She  spoils  him,"  snorted  Mr.  Powell,  not 
meaning  a  word  of  it. 

Sometimes  it  is  difficult  for  her  to  get  rid 
of  annoying  strangers  who  get  hold  of  his  un- 
listed telephone  number.  She  is  always 
polite  but  firm.  Xo  secretary  of  a  ten-million- 
dollar-a-year  corporation  could  turn  people 
away  more  politely  and  more  emphatically. 
But  she  wouldn't  hurt  anyone's  feelings  inten- 
tionally, not  for  worlds. 

"If  Bill  is  going  out  to  dinner  he  calls  and 
tells  me  what  he  wants  to  wear,"  she  says. 
"I  have  his  clothes  all  laid  out  for  him  when 
he  returns  from  the  studio." 

Recently  she  had  been  planning  to  go  back 
to  Kansas  City  to  visit  her  two  sisters  and  a 
brother. 

She  postponed  the  trip  until  after  Bill  had 
completed  his  current  picture. 

"I  thought  I  could  make  it  easier  for  him  by 
staying  here,"  she  confessed.  "You  see  he 
always  calls  me  from  the  studio  at  noon  to  get 
the  calls  that  seem  important." 

V\  7HEX*  Bill  passed  through  Kansas  City  on 
**  his  way  back  from  Europe,  he  called  his 
mother  on  long  distance,  and  he  had  her 
brother  and  sisters  talk  also. 

"It  cost  sixty-five  dollars."  put  in  Mr. 
Powell,   the  practical  business  man. 

"But  it  was  almost  as  good  as  going  back  and 
seeing  them,"  replied  Mrs.  Powell. 

The  office  of  the  Powells,  Incorporated,  is 
just  a  room  in  their  apartment.  It  has  a  desk 
and  separate  telephone  for  Mr.  Powell.  The 
apartment  itself  is  comfortable  and  tasteful, 


but  not  pretentious.  You  would  never  think 
Philo  Vance  lived  there.  There  isn't  a  roof 
terrace  where  he  can  have  breakfast,  and  you 
couldn't  find  a  Regie  cigarette,  or  a  book  on 
Sanskrit  in  the  place.  Bill  doesn't  entertain 
at  his  home.  When  he  gives  a  party  he 
assembles  his  guests  for  dinner  at  the  Ambassa- 
dor. He  isn't  home  very  often,  Mrs.  Powell 
explains.  In  the  daytime,  when  he  isn't 
working,  she  can  usually  relay  his  messages  up 
to  Ronald  Colman's.  Ronald  and  Bill  play 
tennis  together  regularly. 

Another  of  Mrs.  Powell's  unofficial  duties 
is  to  keep  the  ice-box  stocked  for  Bill.  It 
seems  he  likes  to  go  on  midnight  raids  after 
returning  from  an  evening  out.  She  usually 
leaves  chutney  and  sandwiches,  a  cold  fowl 
or  a  leg  of  lamb. 

The  two  senior  members  of  the  firm  like  to 
explore  for  new  places  to  eat.  They  even  like 
picnic  lunches  in  the  Los  Angeles  parks,  and 
they  are  not  above  riding  on  street  cars.  Of 
course  they  couldn't  be  so  carefree  if  people 
knew  they  were  the  parents  of  the  famous 
William  Powell.  The  greatest  thrill,  however, 
is  to  go  to  a  theater  where  one  of  his  pictures  is 
showing,  and  to  listen  to  the  comments. 

THIS  Powells,  Incorporated,  business  has 
been  going  on  for  three  years,  ever  since  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Powell.  Sr.,  joined  Bill  in  California. 
And,  maybe,  Bill  wouldn't  like  this  to  be  told, 
but  his  mother  still  calls  him  by  his  childhood 
name.  Willy. 

"Children  never  grow  up  to  their  mothers, 
you  know,"  she  explained.  She  honestly  tries 
to  call  him  William  or  Bill,  however.  But  she 
just  forgets  once  in  a  while! 


PH0T0P1  \\    M  m.\/im.   i  01   J  \--i   \«'.      1      1 

Ten  Years  Ago  in  PHOTOPLAY 


'-3 


B\'  way  of  ,i  Bftppy  new  year  to  the  movie 
business,  Mr  Quirk  a^ks  the  industry,  tins 
month.  "Whal  did  you  do  in  1920 
The  editor  reviewi  the  motion  pictun 
tli.it  year,  the  silent  motion  pit  tun-  then  rapidly 
approaching  its  highest  developmenl  m  an  art 

Mr.  Ouirk  picks  lour  pictures  .is  the  b. 
1920 

lli^  list  contain 

"Humoretque,"  tin-  srntimrnt.il  master- 
piece, and  first  winner  of  tin'  Photopi  w 
Gold  Medal  -with  Vera  Gordon,  Urna  Rubens 
ami  Gaston  Class  in  the  leading  roles. 

"Waj  I  town  East,"  Griffith's  masterful  pi" 
duction  of   tin-  old   nu'lliTilrama.   with   Lillian 

(lish,  Rkhard  Barthelmess  and  Lowell  siu-r- 
man  winning  new  laurels. 


Exactly   ten  years  ago   Pola   Negri 

burst    upon    American    screens    in 

"Passion."    Here's  the  way  the  fiery 

Pole  looked  then 


•Why  Chan-.-  Your  Wife?"  the  Do  Mille 
glitterer,  with  Tommy  Meighan  and  Bebe 
Daniels  therein. 

"The  Devil's  Pass-Key,"  a  directorial 
triumph. 

\yf  R.  QUIRE  welcomes  Thomas  Meighan  to 

**-Mull  stardom,  as  befits  his  talents.  He  calls 
Harold  Lloyd  the  leading  comic,  remarking 
that  "Chaplin  seems  to  have  retired  from  busi- 

Remember,    this    is    ten    long    years   ago. 

Some  retirement! 

Theodore  Roberts  and  George  Fawcctt 
divide  honors  as  character  men.  Dick  Barthel- 
mess is  the  leading  juvenile. 

As  for  the  woman  question,  the  editor  says 
that  Mary  Pickford  is  still  the  queen  of  the 
movies,  and  then  has  nice  words  to  say  about 
Norma  Talmadge,  Lillian  Gish  and  Alice 
Joyce. 

'T'HF.  new  year,  a  decade  ago,  brought  our 
■*-  first  view  of  Tola  Negri — an  event  by  which 
citizens  began  to  set  their  clocks  and  watches. 

•'Passion."  that  Lubitsch-directed  costume 
picture  rather  wildly  overtitled.  came  along. 
Our  Mr.  Burns  Mantle  says,  in  his  review,  that 
"Mine.  Negri  is  physically  attractive,  highly 
emotional,  technically  facile  and  dramatically 
effective." 

What  a  chilly  way  of  disposing  of  the 
Perilous  Pole — the  Warm  Witch  of  Warsaw! 

Within  five  years  American  critics  and  public 
were  saying  plenty  of  other  things  about  Negri ! 


f~\  I  III  R  pii  tures  of  that  lot 

^^         Nasjmova  in  "  I  he  v. 

.  .  .  Thomas  Meighan  in  "Conrad  in  l 

of  Hi.  N  outh"  l .  •    S 

with  LtlnK  l.iytonan.l  J.i.  k  Holt  .  William 

I'.irnum     shooting     his     wa>     out     in 
Harlan,"  and    Ml     i  rtj     Skinner  iii 

produi  tion  of  "  Ki  in.  i 

m.irv  [heby   in  the  role  don.-  in  1''  ■■ 

Dun.  .hi      and     ElUK  Ighter 

I  d   in   the   n. -w    t.ilki.-   \.  r  lion 

Young  I  .  .  .  Bebe  I  hudeb  I":  rdom, 

in  1921 .  the  picture  being  "  1  <  an 

Tell  "     J.u  k  Mulhall  i-.  her  hading  man. 
VWLI.L,   motion   pi.'  [nly  run   jn 

»»    i  \i  lei      and   thl 

l  en  years  a^.>  we  ran  a  p  i 
titled  ••  back  to  Broadway  "    It  iho 

ol   the  screen  in  BCeneS  from  Stage  pla\ 

were  then  doing     James  Rennie,  for  insl 
in  a  bit  from  "Spanish  Love"  on  B 
In  \(>M  he's  back  in  Hollywood  in  • 
National  talkies.      Ina  Claire,  back  on   I. 
way  after  silent   films  in    1921,   i-  again  In-fore 
the  camera.     N'ita  N'.d.li  had  left  the  screen  for 
a  play  called   "Opportunity,"     Now  shi 
retirement  in  France. 

Yep     it'>   .v.le.'       \>    this   is   written,    ten 
years  after  tin-  events  chronicled,  hord 
stage  players  have  been  t.>  Hollywood  and  an- 
back  on   Broadway  again.     Which  probably 

shows  that  PHOTOPl  \\  S  >torie-  are  good  every 
ten  years— or  even  oftener! 

npHK  news  that   Hill  Hart   will  probably  be 
■*-  back  on  the  screen  soon  gives  life  to  .1 
story  we  ran  about  him  ten  years  I 

It's  called  "  bill  Hart's  True  Love  Storj 
"Why  I'm  Still  a  bachelor  "    The  lady  of' Hill's 
inmost  heart,  says  the  piece,  was  the  dart. 
Corona    Riecardo.   one  of    the   many   beauties 
who    played     Iras    in    "  Hen-Hur"     to    Hill's 
I  on  the  stage. 
P.S. — And   now   Hill's  been   married,   had  a 
tine  son.  been  divorced,  and  again  lives  alone — 
this  time  on  a   hill   that   looks  away  to 
fornia's  high  Sierras. 

COME  of  the  things  that  were  going  on  as 
^little  1°-21  came  kicking  and  screaming  into 
the  screen  world  .  .  .  Vivian  Martin.  Colleen 
Moore,  Priscilla  Dean  and  Louise  Claum  lead 
oil  the  month's  picture  gallery  .  .  .  And  then 
come  two  girls  still  much  in  the  public  i 
Marion  Davies  and  Hetty  Compson  .  .  . 
Wally  Reid  writes  a  piece  on  "How  to  Hold  a 
Wife."  Not  many  new  thoughts — bul 
Wally  who  utters  them,  so  it's  all  right  .  .  . 
Photoplay  is  running  a  SI 4.<xx>  prize  fiction 

contest,  and  two  of  the  entries  appear  : 
.  .  .  And    a    story   about   Julia    I 
le-s      It  was  at  this  time  she  became  known  to 
the  folks  as  "The  Legs  of  the  Lasky  Lot"  .  .  . 
A  page  of  pictures  of  famous  red-headed  • 
girls.       They    include    Kit  t  io    I  Hillie 

Hurke.   Pearl   White.   Mary  Thurman.   i  . 
Swanson,  Olga  Petrova  and  Mae  Marsh  .  .  . 

"PERSONALITY  stories,"   this  month,  on 
*-  two  of  the  newer  leading  lights  of  pk  I 
Bebe  Daniels.  The  story  says,  "She  fa 
if  a  Mona  Lisa  and  the  swaying  wall 

Carmen."     Hebe  says,  "I  liked  nu 
with  Harold  Lloyd,  but  I  love  my  serious 

best.     And  I  love  being  a  star." 

■lie  Taylor.     A  -!ren  from  Wil- 

mington.  Del       Fox   has  just   signed   her  for 
leading  vampires  of  the  younger  school. 

GOSSIP  of  the  month- 
Eric  Von  Stroheim  was  married  in 
October  to  Valerie  de  Germonprez.  They 
worked  together  in  pictures.  Gloria  Swanson 
has  the  cutest  baby  irirl  you  ever  saw,  born 
October  10th.     Papa  is  Herb  Sombom. 


diristmas 
v3eals 

on    every    package  / 


H 


ALFthefunofChrist- 
m.is  is  "doing  up" 
the  packages.  The  other 
half  is  opening  them.  The 
1930  Christmas  Seals, 
showing  old  Santa  with 
his  Christmas  tree,  will 
add  beauty  to  any  Christ- 
mas mail.  Better  still,  the 
funds  from  the  sale  of 
Christmas  Seals  will  help 
protect  the  health  of  your 
community.  I  \e  Christ- 
mas  Seals  freely  and  so 
extend  the  Christmas 
spirit  of  good-will  to  men 
throughout  the  entire 
year.  Gel  your  supply  of 
Christmas  Seals  today. 


THL   N  \TIOXAL.  STATE 
AND  LI  ><   \L  TUB1  R(  CLOSIS 

ASS<>(  I  M  Io\n  ()[- 
THE  UNITED  STATES 

HELP  FIGHT 
TUBERCULOSIS 


Whon  >,iU  writ-  -o  idrertteen  pleise  mention  THOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

I  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  15  ] 


SINNERS'  HOLIDAY  —  Warners.  —  (Reviewed 
undei  title  "Women  in  Love.")  Just  a^  a  change  of 
scenery  the  gangsters  move  out  of  the  honky-tonks 
to  an  amusement  pier.  Grant  Withers  is  the  hero. 
(Oct.) 

SISTERS— Columbia.— Sally  O'Neil  and  Molly 
O'Day  as  sisters,  one  rich,  the  other  poor.  Fair. 
{Sept.) 

SIT  TIGHT— Warners.— Joe  E.  Brown  and  Win- 
nie Lightner  repeat  many  of  their  monkey-shines. 
But  they're  still  funny.     (Dec.) 

SLUMS  OF  TOKYO— Schochiko  Film  Co.— 
Silent  Japanese-made  film,  supposed  to  be  "art." 
Drab  story.     (Sept.) 

SOCIAL  LION,  THE— Paramount.— Jack  Oakie, 
the  village  braggart  who  is  "taken  up"  by  the  country 
club  set.    Mary  Brian,  the  girl.    Heaps  of  fun.    (July) 

SOLDIERS  AND  WOMEN— Columbia.— 
Tangled  love  affairs  in  military  circles.     (A  ug.) 

SOLDIER'S  PLAYTHING.  A— Warners.— If  you 
like  romance  seasoned  with  plenty  of  laughs,  some 
slap-stick  and  hot  thrills,  catch  this.    (Oct.) 

SONG  OF  THE  FLAME— First  National  — 
Bernice  Claire,  soprano,  and  Noah  Beery,  deep  bass, 
free  Russia  from  the  revolutionists  via  Technicolor 
operetta.     (July) 

SON  OF  THE  SADDLE— Universal.— A  Ken 
Maynard  Western  with  plenty  of  hard  riding,  gun 
play  and  action.     (Oct.) 

SO  THIS  IS  LONDON— Fox.— The  Will  Rogers- 
Irene  Rich  team,  set  down  in  London.  An  amusing 
follow-up  for  "So  This  Is  Paris."    (Aug.) 

SOUP  TO  NUTS— Fox.  — Rube  Goldberg's 
grandly  goofy  cartoons,  his  fantastic  inventions  and 
freak  statues,  are  all  in  this  hilarious  film.  You'll  like 
it.      (Oct.) 

•  SPOILERS,  THE— Paramount. — Gary  Cooper 
and  William  Boyd  stage  a  battle  wilder  than 
the  memorable  fight  between  William  Farnum  and 
Tom  Santschi,  which  made  screen  history.  Red 
meat  melodrama,  packed  with  action,  suspense  and 
thrills.      (Nov.) 

SPURS  —  Universal.  —  Here's  hard-ridin'  Hoot 
Gibson  in  a  Western  that's  a  Western.  It's  fast, 
from  the  first  shot  to  the  last.     (Nov.) 

SQUEALER,  THE— Columbia.— If  you  can  stand 
another  gangster  picture,  this  one  has  some  new 
ideas.  Well  acted  by  Jack  Holt,  Dorothy  Revier 
and  Davey  Lee.     (Nov.) 

STEEL  HIGHWAY,  THE— Warners— Grant 
Withers  and  Mary  Astor  against  a  railroad  back- 
ground.   Fairly  entertaining.     (Dec.) 

STORM,  THE— Universal. — This  storm  is  no 
tornado.  A  very  tame  melodrama.  Even  Lupe 
Velez  is  tame  as  the  little  girl  of  the  Great  Northwest. 
(Nov.)  ' 

STORM  OVER  ASIA— Amkino.— Another  of  the 
powerful  Revolutionary  pictures  from  Soviet  Russia 
dramatizing  the  Communist  revolt  against  the  White 
Army  in  1918.     A  smash  ending.    Silent.     (Nov.) 

STRICTLY  MODERN— First  National.— Pretty 
obvious  humor  and  thin  story,  but  Dorothy  Mackaill 
is  fine  as  a  young  sophisticate  who  finds  romance 
where  she  least  expects  it.     (July) 

•     SLNNY — First  National. — Sinsrie  or  not.  it's 
a  gem.      Radiant   Marilyn    Miller   smashes   it 
across.    (Dec.) 

SWEETHEARTS  AND  WIVES— First  National. 
^Billie  Dove's  best  talkie.  Mystery  farce,  with 
Clive  Brook  being  very  farcical.     (Sept.) 

•     SWEET    KITTY    BELLAIRS— Warners—  A 
dainty  operetta,  beautifully  photographed  in 

Technicolor.      Claudia   Dell,   charming   new  star,   is 
Kilty;  Walter  Pidgeon,  the  baritone  hero.     (Nov.) 

SWEETHEARTS  ON  PARADE— Columbia.— 
Just  another  pure  little  country  girl  among  the  bad, 
big-town  millionaires.  Alice  White  is  the  sweet 
young  thing.      (Nov.) 

SWEET  MAMA— First  National.— If  you're  an 
Alice  White  fan  this  won't  seem  so  weak.     (Sept.) 

SWELLHEAD— Tiffany  Productions.— Just  an- 
other prize-tight  story.     (July) 


SWING  HIGH— Pathe.— Love  and  intrigue  in  an 
old-time  wagon  circus.  Color,  action,  peppy  songs. 
Pleasant  entertainment.     (July) 

TEMPTATION— Columbia.— Unpretentious  and 
pleasant  love  story.  Lois  Wilson  and  Lawrence 
Gray.    (Sept.) 

TEN  NIGHTS  IN  A   BARROOM— Willis   Kent 

Production.  —  Old-fashioned  maudlin  melodrama, 
elaborately  overacted.  The  villain  is  Demon  Rum. 
(Nov.) 

TEXAN,  THE— Paramount. — Gary  Cooper  and 
Fay  Wray  in  a  picturesque  O.  Henry  story  of  the 
Southwest.     (July) 

THOROUGHBRED,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— Wesley  "Freckles"  Barry  is  the  nice  little  jockey 
hero  of  a  nice  little  horse  story  for  the  family  trade. 
(Nov.) 

THOSE  THREE  FRENCH  GIRLS— M-G-M  — 

Not  even  Reginald  Denny  and  Ukelele  Ike  make  this 
unfunny  hodge-podge  worth  while.  Fifi  Dorsay, 
Yola  D'Avril  and  Sandra  Ravel  are  the  girls.    (Nov.) 


Well,  it  can't  be  long  now  till  we  see 
this  punch-befuddled  little  man  hang- 
ing dizzily  to  the  ring  post!  Chaplin 
in  a  scene  from  the  long-awaited  "City 
Lights,"  which  after  over  two  years 
has  become  practically  a  rumor.  But 
it's  done  now! 


THOSE  WHO  DANCE— Warners.— Monte  Blue,, 
in  another  underworld  story  that  doesn't  ring  true. 
(Sept.) 

THREE  FACES  EAST— Warners— A  great  stage 
plav  and  fine  silent  picture  gone  wrong  in  the  talkies. 
(Aug.) 

TOAST  OF  THE  LEGION,  THE— First  Na- 
tional.— The  lovely  Victor  Herbert  operetta,  "Mile. 
Modiste."  in  all-Technicolor.  Bernice  Claire  and 
Walter  Pidgeon.    A  musical  treat.    (Aug.) 

TODAY — Majestic. — One  of  those  sensationals — 
all  hell,  sex  and  box-office.  Hokum,  but  there's  Con- 
rad Nagel  to  hold  you.     (Dec.) 

•  TOM  SAWYER — Paramount. — Jackie  Coo- 
gan.  Mitzi  Green.  Junior  Durkin — real  kids  in 
the  meat  kid  classic.  A  corking  picture.  Don't  miss 
it.    And  by  all  means,  don't  let  the  kids.     (Dec.) 

TOO  YOUNG  TO  MARRY— First  National  — 
(Reviewed  under  title  "Broken  Dishes.")  Grand 
satire  on  family  life.  O.  P.  Heggie  the  henpecked 
father,  Loretta  Young  and  Grant  Withers  the  young 
lovers.      Full  of  fun.      (Sept.) 

TOP  SPEED — First  National. — Musical  comedy 
with  the  irrepressible  Joe  E.  Brown  emphasizing  the 
comedy.     (A  ug.) 


TRIGGER  TRICKS— Universal.— Typical  Hoot 
Gibson  Western  with  Sally  Eilers  in  her  real  life  r61e 
of  girl-friend.    (A  ug.) 

TRUE  TO  THE  NAVY— Paramount.— Clara  Bow 
is  the  girl  who  has  a  boy  on  every  ship.  Then  the 
whole  fleet  comes  in  1    Can  y'imagine  the  fun!    (July) 

TRUTH  ABOUT  YOUTH— First  National.— 
Starts  out  to  be  a  tenderly  wistful  story  of  youth  and 
turns  into  a  stereotyped  April  and  November  romance. 
(Oct.) 

UNDER  WESTERN  SKIES— First  National  — 
Neither  beautiful  Technicolor  scenery  nor  Lila  Lee'i 
fine  performance  do  much  for  this  one.     (July) 

•     UNHOLY  THREE,  THE— M-G-M.— Lon 
Chaney  talks,   in  five  voices,  one  of  them  his 
natural  voice.    Thrills  a-plenty.    (A  ug.) 

UP  THE  RIVER— Fox. — The  lighter  side  of  prison 
life,  and  very  amusing.  Spencer  Tracv  is  grand. 
(Dec.) 

VIENNESE  NIGHTS  —  Warners.  —  The  best 
operetta  in  recent  months — with  oh,  what  waltzesl 
Vivienne  Segal  and  Alexander  Gray  sing  the  love 
songs.     (Nov.) 

VIRTUOUS  SIN,  THE— Paramount.— Torrid 
love  in  frigid  Russia.  Kay  Francis  and  Walter  Huston 
are  simply  grand.     (Dec.) 

•     WAY  FOR  A  SAILOR— M-G-M— John  Gil- 
bert as  a  he-man  sailor,  with  rowdy  humor  and 
low-brow  dialogue.     Never  a  dull  moment.     (Dec.) 

WAY  OF  ALL  MEN,  THE— First  National.— 
This  just  misses  being  good.  Not  bad,  however. 
Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr.'s  in  it.     (Sept.) 

WAY  OUT  WEST— M-G-M.— One  of  the  funniest 

Billy  Haines  films  in  a  long  time,    (.lug.) 

WEDDING  RINGS— First  National.— Ernest 
Pascal's  novel,  "The  Dark  Swan,"  lost  its  original 
title  and  a  great  deal  more.  Lois  Wilson,  Olive 
Borden  and  H.  B.  Warner.    (July) 

WHAT  A  WIDOW!— United  Artists.— Gloria 
Swanson  goes  slap-stick  but  manages  to  be  entertain- 
ing in  light  farce.  Anyhow,  the  clothes  are  swell,  and 
Lew  Cody  deserves  three  cheers.     (Oct.) 

WHAT  MEN  WANT— Universal.— This  doesn't 
prove  anything,  but  Robert  Ellis  is  good  in  it.  (Sept.) 

•  WHITE  HELL  OF  PITZ  PALU— Universal. 
— Three  people  are  trapped  in  the  impassable 
mountain  of  Palu.  A  night  search  party  sets  out. 
Wonderful  Swiss  snow  scenes  and  breath-taking  air- 
plane stunts.  Unusual  and  intensely  interesting. 
Sound.     (July) 

•  WHOOPEE— United  Artists.  — Don't  say 
you're  fed  up  on  musical  comedies.  Go  to  see 
"Whoopee"  instead.  Eddie  Cantor  pulls  a  gag  a  min- 
ute.    Lavish.  all-Technicolor  production.     (Oct.) 

WILD  COMPANY— Fox— Another  of  those  wild 
younger  generation  stories,  but  Frank  Albertson  gives 
it  real  punch.     (A  ug.) 

WI NGS  OF  A  DVE NTT" RE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— Armida  saves  this  far-fetched  adventure  story  of 
movie  perils  along  the  Mexican  border.     (Oct.) 

•  WITH  BYRD  AT  THE  SOUTH  POLE— Par- 
amount.— A  picture  beyond  the  usual  praise. 
You'll  have  to  fee  Commander  Byrd  drop  the  Amer- 
ican flag  onto  the  South  Pole  to  appreciate  what  an 
achievement  it  is.  Wonderful  entertainment  from 
any  standpoint.     (Aug.) 

WOMEN  EVERYWHERE  —  Fox.  —  J.  Harold 
Murray's  charming  singing  voice,  plus  that  ooh-la-la 
Ma'mselle,  Fifi  Dorsay.     (July) 

YANKEE  DON,  THE— Richard  Talmadge  Pro- 
ductions.— Richard  Talmadge  made  it  himself  and  it 
stars  his  muscles.  Western,  very,  very  mcllo-drama. 
(Dec.) 

YOUNG  MAN  OF  MANHATTAN— Paramount. 
— Two  young  newspaper  writers  get  married,  and 
then  get  temperamental.  Claudette  Colbert  and  real- 
life  husband,  Norman  Foster.  Charles  Ruggles  adds 
hilarious  comedy  touches.     (July) 

YOUNG  WOODLEY— British  International.— 
A  well-made  transcription  of  the  stage  play  about 
adolescent  love.    English  cast.     (Dec.) 


J."l 


PHOTO?!  w    M  u.\/im     i  a    J  INI   \kv    1       1 


1  2 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


"I  KNOW  YOUR  SECRETI" 


\  lollvwood,  Calif. 


Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Ri.  h  ii  I    \rl.-n 
wtliur 

(  !  ira  Bow 
William  B 
Brian 
CUvc  Brook 

J.U'k    I 

roll 

Ruth  ' 

M  in r 

» tr  ■- 
Claudette  Colbert 
June  CoUyei 
Chester  (  onklin 

I  h 
ne  Dietrich 

Stuart   I 
&  inlcj    Fields 
lei 

Mltxj  I 


'met 
(  arofc  Lombard 

idetl 

I'  ml  i 

Marcio  Manner) 

March 

Nino  Martini 
Cyril  Maude 
Four  Man  Brother! 
Moran  and  Mai  k 

'  I   ■ 
Frank  Morgan 

li  .rr\  Norton 
■  talkie 
(liver 

Ramon  P<  i 
William  Powell 
Roberto  Rey 

Lillian  Roto 

nith 
Regis  Toomey 
Paj  Wray 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Alb  ri 
Robert  Ames 

I  Bartlett 
Warner  Baxter 

Humphrey  Bogart 
Kl  Brendel 
Ilka  i 

Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Colli  r.  M 

Complon 
Fin  I) 

Louise  Dresser 
Charles  Iarrcll 
Nod  l  ■ 

John  <  ■ 

Janet  Gaynor 

Huntington 
Keating  Si 
Richard  Keene 

J.  M.  Kerrigan 

Lcc 


Edmund  Lowe 

Clair.    1 

Lynn 

! 

Kenneth  MacKi  nna 

Victor  Mi  I. anion 
'  '    jica 
I. hi-  Moran 
J.  Harold  Murray 
( >'  Hrn-n 

Sullivan 
Frank  Richardson 
Will  l< 
David  Rollins 

iillian  S 
larie  - 

r  Tracy 
John  Wayne 

rie  White 
Winnigcr 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Vndy 

Henry  Ar-i 

Evelyn  Brent 

■    irol 

Cawthorn 
June  Clyde 
Betty  Compson 
Rlcardo  Cortes 

unicls 
Richard  Dix 
i'unne 
Eddie  Foy,  Jr 
Roberta  dale 
Rail  Harolde 
Rita  LaRoy 


Ivan  L.  bed.  ft 

laurel 
Joel  McCrea 

Jack  Mulhall 
irray 
Edna  Ma\'  Oliver 
Roberta  Robinson 
Lowell  Sherman 
Katya  Sorina 

-     irks 
Leni  St 
Hugh  1 
R.  rt  W 
Robert  Woolsey 


Warner  Bros.  Studios,  5842  Sunset  Blvd. 


George 

John  Barry  more 

Noah  B 

Joe  K.  Brown 
Helen  C  I  andler 
Claudia  Dell 

: ' elrov 
Robert  Elliott 
Frank  Fay 
Paul  Gi 
James  Hall 
Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 


Lee 

: ,  t  ner 
Lotti  I 
Ben  1 

n  Marsh 
Marian  Nixon 
Waller  Pidgeon 
Vivienne  Segal 
H.  B.  Wai 
Barbara  W 
Jack  Whiting 
Grant  Withers 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Joan  Bennett 
Charles  Chaplin 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Al  Jolson 


Che-tor  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swai 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St 


William  Collier,  Jr. 
Ralph  Graves 
Sam  Hardy 
Jack  Holt 
Ralph  Ince 
Buck  Jones 
Margaret  Livingston 


Bert  Lytell 
Joan  P 

Aileen  Pringle 
Dorothy  Revior 
Barbara  Stanwyck 
Johnnie  Walker 


In  care  of  Samuel  Goldwyn,  7210  Santa 
Monica  Blvd. 


Eddie  I  antor 
Ron  ii'i  i  olman 


' 


In  care  of  the  Edwin  Carewe  Productions, 
Tec-Art  Studios 


Roland  Drew 
Kit  a  Carewe 


Cul 


\  IT 

Metro-Goldwyn- 
Wiiiiam  BakeweO 
i  Ion  i  Barn  more 

Walla..    B 
Charlea  BIckYord 
Ina  Booth 

{Brown 
<enoK  Buihman 
Harry  I 

ii 
larion  I  >  n  let 

Marie  I  (ri      let 
(hit  Bdvi  u 

John  Gilbert 
William  Haines 
Hid. la  Hopper 
Lottlce  How.li 
Huston 
LeUa  !  i 

iinson 

v  Jordan 
Buster  K.-aton 

Arnold  KortT 
An. lr.-  I  uguet 
Ellen  McCarthy 


Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  ft 

:  -on 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Char' 

tnger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 

Harry  Langdon 


City,  Calif. 

Mayer  Studios 


M  ilian 
Rob 

' 

Ramo 

J    C.  N 

i 
Anna     ' 
In.  >!l 

Mari 

' 

Duncan   Renaldo 

Norn 

I 

!ibett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Raquel  T  n 

June  Walk,  r 
Roland  Young 


Ann  Harding 
Eddie  Oinllan 
Helen  Twelvetrees 


Stan  Laurel 
Our  t . 

...    Sutton 


Universal  City,  Calif. 
Universal  Studios 


Margaret  Adams 
Lew   \ 
John  B 

tibson 

Barbara  Kent 
B  la  I 

Maran 


Charles  Murray 

Nolan 
ley 
Slim  Summerville 
Genevieve  Tobjn 

Veles 
John  Wray 


Burbank,  Calif. 


First  National  Studios 


Harry  Ban: 
Richard  Barthe.mess 
Sidney  Blackmer 
Bermce  (  hurt 
Robt  ri 

Fairbanks, 

Loui<e  Fazenda 
.ray 
Lawrence  Gray 
O.  P.  II 

Edward  E.  Horton 
Lila  Lee 


I.iltlefield 

J.  Farri  II  Mac  Donald 

Mackaill 
D.i  vi 

Frank  McHugh 
Marilyn  Mill,  r 

James  Rennie 

kinner 

Arthur  - 
Loretla  Young 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  AEncw.  6?:w   La  Mir 
Virginia  Brown  Fair-.   1  .' 1  '  G 
Hughes,  '>!<>  Taft  Hide. 
Harold  Lloyd.  M  Blvd. 

Philippe  Dc  Lacy.  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Coogan.  is"  •  \ve. 

and  St. 
Ruth  R  -  WOsbire  Blvd. 

Estelk  Taylor,  5254  Los  Fehs  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray,  ::  E.  fVtt     -  York 

William  S.  Hart    ::  Ranch,  Newhall.  Calif. 

t    Drive.    Beverly- 
Hills.  Cafif. 


•*■  ■  -parkle  in  r  I    I    — ammaticn 

and    attraetivene»i— 1»    fall    1-  I    took     I>r. 

^   Gotden    Medical    Di     ova    — I      '»<-tuble 
tunic  and  builder  that  make*  for  redder  bl--! 

A  woman  to  be   attractive    muit    have    <  o.irtine 
thru  her   arteries   ri.  h.   rrd    bl'»«l.       Mwnv    » 
and  men,  too.  have  thin,  pale  blr»>d:    they're  weak, 
tire  onily,  div  ourage  qui.  kly.     Su.  h  folki  w 

Dr.  Pierces  Golden  Medical  Discovery 

Write  Or.  IVi.ri  Clini.-  in  PwtTalo,  N     Y.      An. 
<*wer  question  blank  wrapped  arc-i  -.e  and 

rc\eivefrce  medicai  advice. 


Wear  a  Smaller  Size 
TOE 
SHOE 

'with     Absolute 
Comfort! 

Enjoy  1  to  1  r  foot 

fit.  yet  gives  to  o.-- 

daintier    sppe  n 
Shoes,  including    i 

I  m  catalog  of 

coetumes  and  danee  shoes.    Just  out. 

Advance  Theatrical  Shoe  Co. 

Dept.  SI,  If«  North  State  St.,  Chicago,  lit. 


PfiEITY  ANKLES  $>7j? 
and  CALMEST 


Dr.  v 
trm  1 
i>>rt  .» 


••-a  • 


• 


■T    prtr    po-t-r.aa  »>  *r    f   *    he-     | 

Dr.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER 

3S9Fitth  A.enur       N.-wYorkC.ty 


fl 


NURSING 


LEARN 
PRACTICAL 

AT  HOME   IN    II    WEEKS 


When  yr<u  write  to  adTertlsers  please  mention  rnOTOrLAT  MAGAZTXE. 


Casts   of  Current   Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


"BAT  WHISPERS.  THE" — United  Artists. — 
From  the  play  by  Mary  Roberts  Rinehart  and  Avery 
Hopwood.  Directed  by  Roland  West.  Tin-  cast: 
Police  Lieutenant,  Chance  Ward;  Mr.  Hell.  Richard 
Tucker;  The  Butler,  Wilson  Kongo;  Police  Captain, 
Di\\  in  Jennings:  Police  Sergeant,  Sidney  D'Albrook; 
Man  in  Black  Mask,  S.  E.  Jennings;  Mrs.  Cornelia 
Van  Gorder,  Grayee  Hampton;  Lizzie  Allen,  Maude 
Eburne;  The  Caretaker,  .Spencer  Charters;  Dale  Van 
Gorder,  Una  Merkel:  Brook,  William  Bakewell; 
Dr.  Yenrees,  Gustav  Von  Scyffortitz;  Anderson — the 
Detective,  Cluster  Morris;  Richard  'Fleming,  Hugh 
Huntley;  Detective  Jones,  Charles  Dow  Clark;  The 
Unknown,  Ben  Bard. 

"BIG  MONEY "— Pathe  — From  the  story  by 
Walter  De  Leon.  Screen  play  by  Walter  De  Leon 
and  Russell  Mack.  Directed  by  Russell  Mack. 
The  cast:  Eddie,  Eddie  Quillan;  Ace,  Robert  Arm- 
strong; Tom,  James  Gleason;  Joan  McCall,  Miriam 
Scgar;  Mae,  Margaret  Livingston;  Mr.  McCall, 
Robert  Edeson;  Leila,  Dorothy  Christy;  Smiley, 
G.  Pat  Collins;  Durkin,  Morgan  Wallace;  Flora, 
Myrtis  Crinley;  Monk,  Robert  Gleckler;  Bradley, 
Charles  Sellon;  Lefty,  Kit  Guard;  W'eejee,  Johnny 
Morris;  Waiter,  Frank  Sabini;  Waiter,  Harry  Semoles; 
Society  Woman,  Clara  Palmer;  Detective,  Ed  Decring; 
Elevator  Boy,  Spec  O'Donnell;  Maid,  Mona  Rico; 
Izzy,  Murray  Smith;  Wendell,  Harry  Tyler;  Butler, 
Jack  MacDonald;  Michael,  Zita  Moulton;  Office 
Boy,  Jack  Hanlon;  Detroit  Dan,  Richard  Cramer; 
Lewis  Wilder,  Maurice  Black. 

"BROTHERS" — Columbia. — From  the  play  by 
Herbert  Ashton,  Jr.  Adapted  by  John  Thomas 
Neville  and  Charles  R.  Condon.  Directed  by  Walter 
Lang.  The  cast:  Boh  Naughlon,  Bert  Lytell;  Eddie 
Connolly,  Bert  Lytell;  Xortna,  Dorothy  Sebastian; 
Dr.  Moore.  William  Morris;  Prosecuting  Attorney, 
Richard  Tucker;  Lorenzo,  Maurice  Black;  Oily  Joe, 
Frank  McCormack;  Mrs.  Naughlon,  Claire  McDowell; 
Mr.  Naughton,  Howard  Hickman;  Tony,  Francis 
MacDonald;  Mag,  Rita  Carlyle;  Maud,  Jessie 
Arnold. 

"CHARLEY'S  AUNT"— Columbia— From  the 
story  by  Brandon  Thomas.  Screen  play  by  F. 
McGrew  Willis.  Directed  by  Al  Christie.  The  cast: 
Lord  Fancourt  Babberley,  Charlie  Ruggles;  Amy 
Spettigue,  June  Collyer;  Charlie  Wykeham,  Hugh 
Williams:  Donna  Lucia  D'Alvardorez,  Doris  Lloyd; 
Stephen  Spettigue,  Halliwell  Hobbes;  El  a  Delahay, 
Flora  LeBreton;  Jack  Chesney,  Rodney  McLennan; 
Kitty  Verdun,  Flora  Sheffield;  Sir  Francis  Chesney, 
Phillips  Smalley;  Brassetl,  Wilson  Benge. 

"COHENS  AND  KELLYS  IN  AFRICA,  THE"— 
UNIVERSAL. — From  the  story  by  Vin  Moore  and 
Edward  Luddy.  Directed  by  Vin  Moore.  The  cast: 
Mr.  Cohen,  George  Sidney;  Mr.  Kelly,  Charles 
Murray;  Mrs.  Cohen,  Vera  Gordon;  Mrs.  Kelly, 
Kate  Price;  Windjammer  Thorn,  Frank  Davis; 
Sheik,  Lloyd  Whitlock;  Guide,  Nick  Cogley;  Chief, 
Ed  Kane;  Dancing  Girls,  Rene  Marvelle;  Georgette 
Rhodes. 

"CONCENTRATIN'  KID,  THE"— Universal. 
— From  the  story  by  Harold  Tarshis  and  Charles 
Saxton.  Adapted  by  Harold  Tarshis.  Directed  by 
Arthur  Rosson.  The  cast:  Concenlratin'  Kid,  Hoot 
Gibson;  Betty  Lou  Vaughn,  Kathryn  Crawford; 
Foreman  Moss  Blaine,  Duke  R.  Lee;  Campbell, 
James  Mason;  C.  C.  Stile,  Robert  E.  Homans. 

"COSTELLO  CASE"— Sono  Art— James  Cruze. 
— From  the  story  by  F.  McGrew  Willis.  Directed  by 
Walter  Lang.  The  cast:  Mahoney,  Tom  Moore; 
Mollie,  Lola  Lane;  Blair,  Roscoe  Karns;  Mile  Away 
Harry,  Wheeler  Oakman;  Jimmie,  Russell  Hardie; 
Saunders,  WMlliam  Davidson;  Landlady,  Dorothy 
Vernon;  Donnelly,  Jack  Richardson;  Bebe,  M.  K. 
Wilson. 

"DICH  HAB'  ICH  GELIEBT"  (Because  I 
Loved  You) — Aafa-Tobis. — Directed  by  Hans 
Conradi  The  cast:  Inge  Lund,  Mady  Christians; 
Otto  Radney,  Walter  Jankuhn;  Dr.  Hubert  Baumgart, 
Hans  Stuwe;  Mariechen,  Kl.  Marion  Conradi; 
Oberregisseur  Lechncr.  Carl  Platen;  Frau  Werner, 
Sophie  I'agay;  Edith  Karin,  Trude  Berliner;  Justizrat 
Korner,  Fritz  Alberti;  Direktor  Sommer,  Hans 
Mii-re  ndorff  ;Sanital  srat  Brink,  JaroFiiTth;  Der  Theater- 
direktor,  Hans  Sternberg;  Der  Inspizienl,  Hermann 
Picha;  Der  Conferencier,  Andre  Pilot. 

"ESCAPE" — Associated  Radio  Pictures. — 
From  the  play  by  John  Galsworthy.  Directed  bv 
Basil  Dean.  The  cast:  Matt  Dcnant,  Sir  Gerald  du 
Maurier;  Girl  of  the  Town,  Mabel  Poulton;  Plain 
Clothes  Man,  Ian  Hunter;  Policeman.  Edward 
Addison;  Fellow  Convict,  Gordon  Harker;  Warder, 
S.  J.  Warmington;  Shingled  Lady.  Edna  Best;  Judge, 
Horace  Hodges;  Browning,  Lewis  Casson;  Betty 
Browning,  Ann  Casson;  Grace.  Marie  Ney;  Dora, 
Madeleine  Carroll;  Parson.  Austin  Trevor;  Constable, 
David  Hawthorne;  Bellringer,  Lawrence  Baskcomb. 

"  EX-FLAME" — Liberty  Productions. — Adapt- 
ed from  the  novel  "  Hast  Lynne"  by  Victor  Halperm. 
Directed  by  Victor  Halperin.  The  cast:  Sir  Carlyle 
Austin,  Neil  Hamilton;  Lady  Kilty  Austin.  Marian 
Nixon;  Barbara  Lacy,  Judith  Barric;  Beau  Winthrop, 

126 


Norman  Kerry;  Vmberlo,  Roland  Drew;  The  Argen- 
tinian, Jose  Bohr;  Mr.  Keith,  Q  melius  Keefe;  Lady 
Harriet  Austin,  May  Beatty;  Boggins,  Snub  Pollard; 
Kilmer,  Joan  Standing;  Master  Stuart  Austin,  Billy 
Haggerty. 

"FAIR  WARNING"— Fox.— From  the  story  by 
Max  Brand.  Screen  play  by  Ernest  L.  Pascal. 
Directed  by  Alfred  L.  Worker.  The  cast:  Whisllin' 
Dan,  George  O'Brien;  Kale  Cumberland,  Louise 
Huntington;  Jim  Silent,  Mitchell  Harris;  Lee  Haines, 
George  Brent;  Purvis,  Nat  Pendleton;  Kilduff,  John 
Sheehan;  Morgan,  Erwin  Connelly;  Tex  Colder, 
WTillard  Robertson;  Mr.  Cumberland,  Alphonz  Ethicr; 
Jordan,  Ernest  Adams. 

"FLAME  OF  LOVE.  THE"— British  Interna- 
tional.— Scenario  by  Monckton  Hoffe.  Directed  by 
Richard  Eichberg.  The  cast:  Haitang,  Anna  May 
Wong;  The  Grand  Duke,  George  Schnell;  Lieutenant 
Boris  Borrisoff,  John  Longden;  Yvetle,  Mona  Goya; 
Birnbaum,  Fred  Schwarz;  Wang-Hu,  J.  Leyon. 

"HEADIN'  NORTH" — Tiffany  Productions. — 
From  the  story  by  J.  P.  McCarthy.  Directed  by  J. 
P.  McCarthy.     The  cast:  Jim  Curtis,  Bob  Steele; 


Jack  Holt  in  the  uniform  he  wore 
during  the  making  of  "Dirigible."  He 
liked  it  so  much  he  wore  it  a  lot,  until 
one  day,  when  he  was  lunching  at  the 
"Brown  Derby,  a  lady  at  a  nearby  table 
said  it  was  odd  elevator  men  were 
permitted  to  eat  there,  too.  Jack 
went  back  to  mufti 


Mary  Jackson,  Barbara  Luddy;  Snicker,  Pern.'  Mur- 
dock;  Arnold,  Walter  Shumway;  Announcer,  Eddie 
Dunn;  United  Slates  Marshal,  Fred  Burns;  Foreman, 
Gordon  DeMain;  Smith  and  Smith,  Harry  Allen  and 
Gunnis  Davis;  Owner  of  the  "Palace,"  S.  S.  Simon; 
Old  Actor,  Jim  Welsh;  Drunk,  Jack  Henderson. 

"ILLICIT" — Warners. — From  the  story  by 
Edith  Fitzgerald  and  Robert  Riskin.  Adapted  by 
Harvey  Thew.  Directed  by  Archie  Mayo.  The  cast: 
Anne,  Barbara  Stanwyck;  Dick  Ives,  James  Rennie; 
Price  Baines,  Ricardo  Cortez;  Georgie,  Charles  But- 
terworth;  Margie,  Natalie  Moorhead;  Dukie,  Joan 
Blondell;  Mr.  Ives,  Sr.,  Claude  Gillingwater. 

"LAND  OF  MISSING  MEN.  THE"— Tiffany- 
Productions. — From  the  story  by  J.  P.  McCarthy. 
Adapted  by  J.  P.  McCarthy  and  Bob  Quigley. 
Directed  by  J.  P.  McCarthy.  The  cast:  Steve  O'Xcil, 
Bob  Steele;  Buckshot,  Al.  St.  John;  Sheriff  Bcrwer, 
Edward  Dunn;  Sila  Madero.  Caryl  Lincoln;  John 
.  Ex-Sheriff,  Al  Jennings;  Martha  Evans.  Fern 
Emmett;  Lopez,  Emilio  Fernandez;  Texas,  Noah 
Hendricks;  Scnor  Madero,  C.  R.  Dufau;  Express 
Agent,  S.  S.  Simons. 

"LAST  OF  THE  LONE  WOLF"— Columbia.— 
From  the  story  by  Louis  Joseph  Vance.  Adapted  by 
John  T.  Neville.  Directed  by  Richard  Boleslavsky. 
The  cast:  Michael  Lanyard  (the  Lone  Wolf),  Bert 
Lytell;  Slefanie.  Patsy  Ruth  Miller;  \arril,  Lucien 
Prival;  Prime  Minister,  Otto  Matiesen;  King,  Alfred 
Hickman;  Queen.  Maryland  Morne;  Camilla.  Haley 
Sullivan;    Hoffman,    James    Liddy;    Master  of  Cere- 


monies,   Pietro    Sosso;    Count   von    Rimpau,    Henry 
DanieL 

"LIFE  OF  THE  PARTY.  THE"— Warners.— 
From  the  story  by  Melville  Crossman.  Adapted  by 
Arthur  Caesar.  Directed  by  Roy  Del  Ruth.  The 
cast:  Flo.  Winnie  Lightner;  Dot,  Irene  Delroy;  A.  J. 
Smith,  Jack  Wliiting;  Col.  Joy,  Charles  Bulterworth; 
M.  Le  Maire,  Charles  Judt-ls;  Mr.  Smith,  John 
Davidson;  Secretary,  Arthur  Hoyt. 

"LIGHTNIN'  "—Fox.— From  the  play  by  Win- 
chell  Smith  and  Frank  Bacon.  Adapted  by  S.  N. 
Behrman  and  Sonya  Levien.  Directed  by  Henry 
King.  The  cast:  "Lightnin  "  Bill  Jones,  Will  Rogers; 
Mrs.  Jones,  Louise  Dresser;  John  Marvin,  Joel 
McCrea;  Millie  Jones,  Helen  Cohan;  Thomas,  Jason 
Robards;  Sheriff,  Frank  Campeau;  Lent  Townsend. 
J.  M.  Kerrigan;  Zeb,  Luke  Cosgrave;  Margaret  Davis, 
Ruth  Warren;  Mrs.  Lower,  the  chiseler,  Sharon  Lynn; 
Everett  Hammond,  Walter  Percival;  Diana,  a  divorcee, 
Joyce  Compton;  Mrs.  Brooks,  Goodee  Montgomery; 
Ronald,  Diana's  Husband,  Rex  Bell;  flapperjiivorcee, 
Roxanne  Curtis;  Monty  Winslow,  Phil  Tead;  Mrs. 
Thatcher,  Charlotte  Walker;  Mrs.  Leonard,  Blanche 
LeClaire;  Mr.  Leonard,  Bruce  Warren;  Mrs.  Blue, 
Moon  Carroll;  Mrs.  Weeks,  Bess  Flowers;  Mrs.  Starr, 
Gwendolyn  Faye;  Mrs.  George,  Eva  Dennison;  Mrs. 
Graham,  Betty  Alden;  Mrs.  Young,  Lucille  Young; 
Mrs.  Lord,  a  divorcee,  Natica  Nast ;  Mrs.  Bigg,  Betty 
Sinclaire;  Walter  Lannon,  Clerk  of  the  Court,  Thomas 
Jefferson. 

"LION  AND  THE  LAMB,  THE"— Columbia.— 
From  the  story  by  E.  Phillips  Oppenheim.  Adapted 
by  Matt  Taylor.  Directed  by  George  B.  Seitz.  The 
cast:  Dave,  Walter  Byron;  Inez,  Carmel  Myers; 
Muggsy,  Raymond  Hatton;  Tottie,  Montagu  Love; 
Madge,  Miriam  Seegar;  Bert,  Charles  Gerrard; 
Ruebin,  Will  Stanton;  1st  Lascar,  Charles  Wildish; 
2nd  Lascar,  Harry  Semels;  Lem,  Robert  Milasch; 
Wister,  Yorke  Sherwood;  Stanton,  Sidney  Bracy. 

"LOOSE  ENDS" — British  International. — 
From  the  play  by  Dion  Titheradge.  Directed  by 
Norman  W'alker.  The  cast:  Malcolm  Ferres.  Owen 
Nares;  Mina  Grant,  Edna  Best;  Raymond  Carteret, 
Miles  Mander;  Brenda  Fallon,  Adrianne  Allen; 
Winton  Penner,  Donald  Calthrop. 

"MURDER" — British  International. — From 
the  story'  "Enter  Sir  John"  by  Clemence  Dane. 
Directed  by  Alfred  Hitchcock.  The  cast:  Sir  John, 
Herbert  Marshall;  Diana  Baring.  Norah  Baring; 
Doucie  Markham,  Phyllis  Konstam;  Ted  Markham, 
Edward  Chapman;  Gordon  Druce,  Miles  Mander; 
Handel  Fane,  Esme  Percy;  Ion  Stewart,  Donald 
Calthrop. 

"NEW  MOON"— M-G-M  —  Book  and  lyrics  by 
Oscar  Hammerstein  2nd,  Frank  Mandel  and  Laurence 
Schwab.  Adapted  by  Sylvia  Thalberg  and  Frank 
Butler.  Directed  by  Jack  Conway.  The  cast: 
Lieutenant  Michael  Petroff,  LawTence  Tibbett;  Prin- 
cess Tanya  Strogoff,  Grace  Moore;  Governor  Boris 
Brusiloff,  Adolphe  Menjou;  Count  Strogoff,  Roland 
Young;  Polkin,  Gus  Shy;  Countess  Anastasia  Strogoff, 
Emily  Fitzroy. 

"OH.  FOR  A  MAN!"— Fox.— From  the  story  by 
Mary  F.  Watkins.  Screen  play  by  Philip  Klein  and 
Lynn  Starling.  Directed  by  Hamilton  MacFadden. 
The  cast:  Carlotta  Manson,  Jeanette  MacDonald; 
Barney  McGann,  Reginald  Denny;  Totsy  Franklin, 
Marjorie  White;  Pug  Morini,  Warren  Hymer;  Laura, 
Alison  Skipworth;  Peck,  Carlotla's  Manager,  Albert 
Conti;  Frescatti,  Bela  Lugosi;  Costello,  Andre  Chcron; 
Kerry  Stokes,  William  Davidson. 

"PART  TIME  WIFE"— Fox. — From  the  story 
by  Stewart  Edward  White.  Screen  play  by  Raymond 
L.  Schrock  and  Leo  McCarey.  Directed  by  Leo 
McCarey.  The  cast:  Jim  Murdock,  Edmund  Lowe; 
Mrs.  Murdock  (Betty  Rogers),  Leila  Hyams;  Tommy 
Milligan,  Tommy  Clifford;  Johnny  Spence,  Walter 
McGrail;  Butler,  Louis  Payne;  Caddy  Master,  Sam 
Lufkin. 

"PASSION  FLOWER"— M-G-M.— From  the 
novel  by  Kathleen  Norris.  Adapted  by  Martin 
Flavin.  Directed  by  William  DeMille.  The  cast: 
Dulcie  Morado,  Kay  Francis;  Katherine  Pringle 
Wallace  (Cassy),  Kay  Johnson;  Dan  Wallace,  Charles 
Bickford;  Leroy  Pringle.  Winter  Hall;  Antonio 
Morado,  Lewis  Stone;  Mrs.  Harney,  ZaSu  Pitts; 
Tommy,  Dickie  Moore. 

"PINCHOT'S  SOUTH  SEAS  CRUISE"  — 
Travel-Epics. — No  cast. 

"RENEGADES" — Fox.— From  the  novel  "Les 
Renegats"  by  Andre  Armandy.  Adapted  by  Jules 
Furthman.  Directed  by  Victor  Fleming.  The  cast: 
Deucalion,  Warner  Baxter;  Eleanore,  Myrna  Loy; 
Mathwurth,  Noah  Beery;  Vologuine,  Gregory  Gaye; 
Biloxi,  George  Cooper;  Captain  Mordiconi,  C.  Henry 
Gordon;  Sergeant- Major  Olson,  Colin  Chase;  The 
Marabout,  Bela  Lugosi. 

"SEA  LEGS" — Paramount. — From  the  story  by 
George  Marion,  Jr.  Directed  by  Victor  Heerman. 
The  cast:  Searchlight  Doyle,  Jack  Oakie;  Hyacinth 


PH0T0P1  w    M\i.\/im     i  uk    Jam   \h\  ,    I       ! 


NUouche,  Eufene  Paflrtte;  GoftWW  i  Harry 

i  .r.-.n.  Adrienne,  Lillian  Roth  I  I  Val; 

(  opium.  Albert  *  onti 

(  iirton:AdmiraiO'Sntn,Ch»ilv»SvUon;(  ■  •■•  ••under, 
I  ..in  ki>  ki-u. 

0T1    \M>  V AKI)"-  I 
Denniion    i  lit i       Screen    pla)     b)     Carrrtl 
Directed  bj  William  K.  Howard.     I 

I    Imui  i    i   ■«■■;   Dakin    B  Imund 

Lowe;  Xandra     Lad}  Ljuher,  Joan  B< 

I  i  ii  p;  I ' 
.sir  Clitre  Healhtote,  I  unladen  Hai 
Davi  I  1  <  tcetia,    I 

\rran.    Il.illiwill    Hob 

Ml        AMERICA      THIRST"— Uravm 

I  i. .in  ii.,-  itory  by  VI ■    M  I  Edw  ir , t  Luddy. 

Adapted  by  <  .Jerome  Horwin     Direct    I  bj  '-' 
I  II  ally,  Hai  i 

Slim  Summers  ill 
Mitchell     I 

noni.  Stanley  Welds:  O' Toole     II-  ■ 
Wlml  man,    Dick     \1  - 

h,    T,.in    Kenned 

•six    ship.    THE"— Radio    P  From 

the  -'  n*   rhompaon  i 

,1    by     Hugh    Herb*  rt.       Directed    b 

Louis  Wol- 
Marj     Astor;     Vtai  Keith; 

igh   Herbert 
Powell;  Dom,  Alan  ■■■*.  Bert  Stanley. 

"SIN   TAKES   A    HOLIDAY      -Path      -From 
Robert   Milton  and   I  i 

Constance  Bennett;  C 
-hi. lii   MacKcnna;  Durant,    Basil 
Rita  La  Roy;  R 
:n,    John    Roche;    Anna.    ZaSti     Pitts; 

.  'ndall   Lee;   Ruih.   Murrel   Finley;  Miss 
Graham,  Helen  Johnaon;  Butler,  Fred  Walton. 

"SUSPENSE" — Briii-.ii  Intkknaimsal. — From 
Patrick  MacGill.     Directed  by  Walter 
Summers.     The  cast:  (  aptain   II 

.  Corporal  B 
rosslej  ;  Pi  VI  ckej    Brai 

'.ma).  Percy  Parsons;  "5cm    y,     D. 
Haj  I',  trie;  I'n-.ate  homos,  ri 

"THIRD    ALARM.    THE  "—Tiffany   Pa 
>m  the  story  by  Emilie  John 
tinuity    by    Frances    Hyland   and   Jack    Nan 
,1    by    Emory    Johnson.      The 

lise;  Van,  James  Hall;  Beauty,  Paul 

I !  ur>t :  Pa.:  hi  Hersholl .  lobart 

-rili:  Xeela,  Mary  Doran;  11    ■■  .  D"t 

:    Mamie.    Nita    Martan; 

Billings;     Uncle,    Walter     P  rry;     Matron,     Aileen 

Manning. 

"TOL'ABLE    DAVID"— Columbia. — From   the 
heimer.    Contini 

Richard    Cromw 
.  Mrs.  Kinemon,  Helen  Ware;  Esther  II 

Kinemon,  George  Duryea;  Amos 
B.     Walthall;    Hunter     Ki> 
Edmund   Bi  I  trbara   Bedford; 

llarlon  E.  Knight;  Buaard,  Petei 
Call.  James  Bradbury.  Sr.;  Doctor,  Richard  Carlyle. 

"UNDER  SUSPICION"— Fooc— From  th 

by  Tom  Barry.     Directed  by  A.  F.  Eri 

I.  Harold  Murr.r 
Moran;  Doyle,  J.  M.   Kerrigan;  Darby,  Erwit 
nelly;  FreU,  Lumsden  Hare;  'i 
Brent;  Sutanne,  Marie  Saxon;  Marie,  K 
Major  Manners,  Herbert  Bunston;  Ellen,  Vera  Gerald. 

"WAR  NURSE  •-M-G-M.— Based  on  the  anony- 
novel  of  the  same  name.    Continuity  by  B 
Gardiner.     Directed  by  Edgar  Selwyn.     Th 
.   Robert   Montgomery;   Robin,    k 
June  Walker;  Joy,  Anita  P 
l'itt>:  Rosalie,  Marie  Prevost;  Kansas,  Helen  : 
Matron,    He, Ida     Hopper;    Frank,     I 
Nugent;    Helen,    Martha    Sleeper;    Doctor,    Michael 
Vavitch. 

■WIDOW    FROM    CHICAGO.    THE"— FnrsT 
National. — From     the     story     by     Karl     Baldwin. 
Directed    bv    Edward    Cline.      The   cast:    I' 
rd  O.  Robinson;  Polly.  Alice  Whit 
in,     N'eil     Hamill  Frank     McHugh; 

-   umway:  Mutlins,  Brooks  Bei 
rt;  Helen.  Betty  Francisco:  J 
Harold  Goodwin. 

•WITHIX    THE    LAW— M-G-M.— From    the 
by  Bayard  Veiller.     Adapted  by  Lucien  Hub- 
and   Charles   MacArthur.      Directed   b 
Mary  Turner,  Joan  (.  : 
Carson.    Robert    Armstrong;    Agnes    L; .  ■■  »,    Marie 

Burke, 
John  Miljai  Hale  Hamil- 

d  Cilder.   Purnell   B.   Pratt; 
Moran;   C  .  rt   Emmet'  Eddie 

Tyrell  Davis;  Carney.  William  Bakewellj  Red, 
Bertha,    Gwen    Lee;    II den    Morris. 
Isabel  Withers. 

"ZWEI  HERZEX  IM  3-4  TAKT    (Two  Hearts  in 

Walu  Tim, Associated  Cinemas. — 

Walter  R,ich  and  Fritz  Schulz.     Directed  b- 
Von  Bolvary.     Th,-  cast:  Tom  Hofer.  Walter  I 

Mahler.  Oscar  Karlweiss;  1  idty  Mahler,  Willy 
Bedi,   Gret   Theimer:   Anni   Lohmeier, 
Ser;    Theater   Pit,  -         ;     srakall:   ( 

Karl  Etlinger;  The  Notary,  Paul  >-: 
a  cah  drizer,  Paul  Hoerbiger;  Hofer's  Busier,  August 
^au. 


What  Do  You  Want  To 
Know  About  The  Pictures' 

Is  it  a  good  picture! 

Is  it  tin  All- 1  alkie,  Part»TaVcie — Silent  <>»  Sonne/.' 

Is  it  the  kind  of  picture  I  WOuld  like! 

Which  one  s/io//  we  tee  tonight! 

Shall   we   take   the   children? 

Photoplay  will  solve  these  problems  for 
you — save  your  picture  time  and  money. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

is  truly  the  outstanding  publication  in 
the  great  field  of  motion  pictures.  Its 
stories,  its  special  articles,  its  exclusive 
features  and  departments  are  absolutely 
different  from  anything  to  be  found 
anywhere  else. 

Photoplay    gives    you: 


Photoplay's 

"Shadow  Stage" 

ia  nationally  famous.  Here 

are  reviews  of  all  the  new 
pictures,  with  the  casts  ot 
all  the  players.  PHOTO- 
PLAY also  prints  monthly 
a  complete  summary  of 
every  picture  reviewed  in 
its  pages  for  the  previous 
six  months.  These  are 
but  a  few  of  a  dozen  great 
departments  in  which 
PHOTOPLAY  is  as  up-to- 
the  minute  as  your  daily 
newspaper.  You  cannot 
really  know  the  fascinating 
world  of  the  screen  unless 
you  arc  a  regular  reader  of 

PHOTOPLAY 


A  wealth  of  intimate  details  of 
the  daily  lives  ot  the  screen  stars 
on  the  lots  and  in  their  homes. 

Striking  editorials  that  cut,  with- 
out fear  or  favor,  into  the  very 
heart  of  the  motion  picture  in- 
dustry. 

Authorized  interviews  with  your 
favorite  actors  and  actresses  who 

speak  frankly  because  Photoplay 
enjoys  their  full  confidence. 

Articles  about  every  phase  of  the 
screen  by  outstanding  authori- 
ties who  have  made  pictures  their 
life  business. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

"l>  No.  Uk  hu.in   \v.    .  <  II  K    M 

-.    ' 

It    BIT 

.  >hnl  for  oi»  year. 

effective  with  the  next  issue. 


8e»  I  t> 


SUPERB  FICTION 

h\  the  Foremost  Writers 


.street  Address 
City 


.  .si-.U . 


1-PH-tl 


When  you  wTite  to  advertisers  rlcase  mention  rHOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


Papa  sock  mama!     This 

tender  scene  was  snapped 

at  the  Warner  Eastern 

Vitaphone   Studio, 

where  the  Norworths 

are  at  work  on 

"The    Naggers" 


tudio  Rambles 


BANG!     And   splash!     The  studio 
stillness  is  broken  by  the  sound  of  a 
hot  dog,  heavily  laden  with  mus- 
tard, being  expertly  placed  in  a  lady's  left  eye.    The  lady 
is  Mrs.  Jack  Norvvorth.     Her  assailant  is  Mr.  Jack  Norworth. 
In  the  picture,  and  in  real  life,  they  are  husband  and  wife.   And 
he  gets  paid  for  socking  her  in  the  eye  with  a  frankfurter  and  a 
pint  of  mustard!    Aren't  movies  wonderful! 

We're  visiting  some  Eastern  studios  this  month.  It's  about 
time,  with  picture  actors  as  thickly  strewn  on  the  streets  of 
New  York  as  skyscrapers.  Right  now  we're  at  the  Warner 
Vitaphone  short  subject  studios  in  Brooklyn. 

You  can  taxi  out  or  tunnel  out,  according  to  your  purse.  You 
guessed  it  the  first  time. 

I  tunneled,  in  the  subway,  down  under  Wall  Street,  deep  under 
the  East  River,  and  miles  and  miles  into  Brooklyn.  All  for 
five  cents! 

The  present  Vitaphone  Studio  is  on  the  site  of  the  old  Vita- 
graph  Studios,  and  some  of  the  original  buildings  are  still  used. 
There's  a  lot  of  film  history  hovering  about  the  place.  There 
are  a  few  people  there  now  who  remember  the  Talmadge  girls 
as  little,  dirty-faced  kids  who  made  mud  pies  out  in  the  yard 
between  scenes.  Valentino,  a  comparatively  unknown  dancer 
then,  began  his  picture  career  within  its  walls.  But  all  that's 
another  story. 

WE'RE  watching  a  scene  for  "The  Naggers  Go  Rooting," 
one  of  a  series  of  short  domestic  comedies  in  which  the 
Norworths  are  starring.    This  one,  of  course,  is  about  football. 

There  must  have  been  a  call  for  extras  who  own  raccoon  coats. 
The  stand  is  full  of  them,  excitedly  watching  an  imaginary 
game. 

Down  in  the  middle  of  the  second  row  sit  the  Norworths.  It 
seems  that  wifey  doesn't  know  what  it's  all  about,  but  she 
doesn't  intend  to  let  that  bother  her.  She  makes  the  game 
more  thrilling  by  yelling  "touchdown"  and  "bravo"  in  all  the 
wrong  places.  And  then  she  insists  on  being  fed  at  a  crucial 
moment  in  the  game. 

That's  too  much  for  the  other  fans,  including  hubby.  So  he 
heaves  the  hot  dog.  The  fans  applaud  and  howl  with  glee — 
real  howls,  not  actors'  howls. 

If  it's  as  funny  on  the  screen  as  it  was  in  actuality,  you're 
due  for  a  real  laugh. 

"Cut!  Okay!"  snickers  Director  Alf  Goulding.  Mrs. 
Norworth  gives  Mr.  a  long  look  which  promises  revenge,  and 
hustles  off  the  set  to  have  her  make-up  repaired  for  the  next 
scene. 

-Mr.  Norworth,  wearing  the  pleased  expression  of  the  cat  who 

128 


J3 y       VruflCCS       lYlSrl         has  just  swallowed  the  canary,  sniffs  the 

air  and  makes  a  face.  It  seems  it  hasn't 
been  a  totally  unmarred  pleasure  for  him. 

He  detests  the  smell  of  mustard,  and  this  is  the  real  stuff,  with 

a  rare  and  penetrating  aroma. 


NOW,  let's  go  over  to  the  Paramount  Eastern  Studios,  on 
Long  Island,  and  see  what's  going  on  there.  They  ought 
to  be  getting  toward  the  end  of  "The  Royal  Family"  (which 
will  be  called  something  else  by  the  time  it  reaches  the  screen). 

We're  hungry  by  the  time  we  reach  there,  so  our  first  stop  is 
the  lunch  room.  Ginger  Rogers  is  there,  with  her  mother. 
Ginger's  latest  picture  is  finished,  so  she's  just  a  visitor,  too. 
She  has  to  hurry  back  to  Broadway  for  the  matinee  of  "Girl 
Crazy,"  a  musical  comedy  in  which  she  is  starring. 

We  seem  to  have  picked  a  slow  day  for  our  visit.  On  the  set, 
Ina  Claire  is  calling  for  aspirin  and  it  looks  as  though  not  much 
more  work  will  be  done  today. 

But  Ina  looks  radiant — as  fresh  as  a  Billy  Haines  retort,  as 
she  rehearses  a  scene  in  which  she  receives  a  big  box  of  roses 
from  an  old  admirer,  and  her  face  reflects  all  the  tender  mem- 
ories this  romantic  gesture  has  brought  back. 

She's  evidently  a  good  trouper,  for  she  rehearses  and  rehearses 
and  is  still  rehearsing  as  we  leave,  and  I  don't  think  the  aspirin 
ever  arrived. 

Treading  a  careful  way  over  coils  of  wires  and  around  freshly 
painted  flats  for  backgrounds,  we  almost  lose  our  balance  as 
three  blood-curdling  shrieks  ring  out.  Makes  us  feel  like  char- 
acters in  a  mystery  thriller!  Tearfully,  we  clutch  the  nearest 
protecting  male. 

The  callous  man  just  laughs  at  us.  "Here  she  comes,"  he 
says.  And  around  the  corner  of  the  set  appears  Henrietta 
Crosman,  famous  actress  of  the  legitimate  theater,  looking  just 
as  satisfied  with  herself  as  she  can  be.  She's  been  recording 
screams,  and  we're  here  to  testify  they  were  good  ones. 

We  saw  "The  Royal  Family"  on  the  stage  a  few  seasons  ago 
and  we  forget  just  what  part  these  screams  played,  but  Miss 
Crosman  made  them  sound  mighty  important. 

TOO  bad  we  missed  Freddy  March  and  Mary  Brian.    They're 
both  playing  leading  parts  in  this  opus,  but  today's  scenes 
don't  require  their  presence. 

The  last  time  we  saw  Mr.  March  was  when  "Laughter"  was 
being  filmed.  It  was  a  hot,  late-summer  day,  and  Nancy 
Carroll  and  he  were  having  a  grand  time  getting  soaked  to  the 
skin  in  the  rain  scenes. 

The  studio  "rain"  didn't  wet  them  quickly  enough,  so  they 
had  to  stand  under  a  shower  first. 


■  liurritMl  Iioiim*  f  roiii 

«■  n<kikk-(kii<l   l»cirly    5£ 


lit     HllH     l»l<*«ll 


«  .1111. •>  li.i*.  boon  <«-«»i<*il  .mil  #■■•- 
proted  by  7.%  oiniiioiii  <lornialolo> 
|gl%t«  —  no  olhor  tomplo^iuii  %o*i|> 
Sver    li.nl    «*■■«  It    iiM-4li4.il     «i|»|>i  41  %  .t  I. 


Whal  In  n  <li>rniali>lo^Ur  f 

The  Utle  of  dermatologist  properly 
belongs  onlj  to  registered  phy- 
sicians who  have  been  tk-enseel  to 
practice  medicine  and  who  have 
adopted  the  science  <>f  dermatol- 
he  care  of  the  skin  as  their 
special  province. 

Tin-  reputable  physician  is  the 
onln  reliable  authoritj  fi>r  scien- 
ter advice  upon  the  care  and 
treatment  <>f  the  skin 

I  have  personally  examined  the 
signed  comments  from  r:<  leading 
dermatologists  who  have  approved 


the  composition  and  cleansing  ar- 
UonofCamaj  Soap  I  certify  not 
mil \  to  the  high  standing  i>r  these 
physicians,  i>ut  ,iN<i  to  their  a|>- 
iiro\.1i  as  stated  In  this  advertise- 
ment. 

M     l>.  / 

(Tbc  73  Icailini:  dermatol  - 

proved    C.imay    were    telei  let)    by    I>r. 

Etaey  irbo,  for  10  yean,  baa  U-rn  the 

eilitor  of  the  official  journal  of  American 

dermal' 


«l«*l  lllcllolo^iHl     cll»Ollt 

your  c;oiii|ilo^ioii 


|H4»hl<IIIH 

7t  was  a  nice  party,  loo! 
Thanksgiving  week-end  at  a 
lovely  <>lil  house  out  tm  Long 
Island.  Our  hostess  urged  us 
all  to  stay  over  Sunday  night 
and  everybody  accepted  hut 
me. 

However,  I  had  an  appoint- 
ment at   1"  <> '<  lock  Monday 
morning     with  one  <>f   New 
York'sfamousdermatoli 
So  /  came  <>n  home! 

But,  really,  it  was  quite 
worth  the  sacrifice.  For  this 
great  physician  «a>  such  a 
mtv  ,-itn|  If.  human  sort  of 
person  and  very  easy  to  talk 
to.  He  told  me  he  has  many 
patients  who  come  to  him 
a  ith  just  the  <  otn|  lexion 
problems  so  many  of  you 
write  me  about  blackheads, 
acne  or  a  hiteheads. 

"Will  these  conditions  <  lear 
up  of  themselves?"  I  asked. 

N  it  usually,"  he  told  me. 
"They  need  a  doctor's  < 
espet  ially  acne.  Hut  after 
sin  h  conditions  have  yielded 
to  treatment,  the  only  care  I 
presi  ribe  i>  regular  cleansing 
w itli  a  mild  soap." 

"You,  <if  course,  believe 
Camay  i-  such  a  soap,  don't 
yon?*' 

\    s,"  he  replied,  "1  ! 
:  t his  soap  carefully  and 


am  very  much  i  leased  a  ith 
it.  I  mtv  often  pre*  ribe  it  for 
my  patients.  And  mj 
daughter  lik<-.  it  very  much." 
"In  your  opinion.  i>  there 
any  complexion  too  di 
too  delicate  to  use  sm  li  a  mil' I 

Soap  BS  (  atna\  '"  I  asked. 

No,"  came  the  answer. 

\  I  "  ly  skin«.  of  course, 
need  frequent  cleansing  with 
soap  and  water?"  I  went  on. 

V  -."  said  the  dermatol- 
ogist, "two  or  three  tii 
day.    An  ofly  skin  needs  an 
astringent,  too,"  h<-  added. 

"What    kiinl    would    yon 
recommend?"    I  asked. 

\\  'II.  in  all  myezperk 
I*\f  found  nothing  so  good  a- 
ater.    Just  plunge  your 
fai  >•  into  a  boa  1  >>f  i<  e-a 
This  tightens  up  the  ; 
and  tends  to  keep  them  from 
Ix-inj;  over-active  in  pr 
ing  oil." 

If  you  will  write  for  my  free 
booklet.  "1  el  our  World 
with  Loveliness,"  you'll  fin«l 
even  more  complexion  help 
than  there's  ri««tn  for  bete 
me  at  1>.  ;t.  tfV-11, 
i 
City. 

Br  r\ 


CAMAY      [CALLER      CAI.AY      in      CANADA]      IS      A      PIIIMTin     A      GAMILI      N  O  A  I' —  1  O  »      A      «AKL 


Shivering  is  out  of  fashion  ! 

Woolens  have  taken  the  shops  by  storm 


And  salespeople  tell  me, 
For  washing,  use  Ivory  •• 
it's  safer  for  wool ! " 

How  sensible  we  women  are  becom- 
ing— let  the  men  jest  at  our  fashions 
as  much  as  they  wish.  We  wear  short 
sleeves  and  filmy  things  when  it's  hot — 
and  now  we're  going  in  for  cosy  winter 
woolens.  Even  some  of  the  debutantes 
I  know  are  wearing  real  underwear — 
to  be  sure  it's  rabbit's  wool,  thin  as 
silk  and  more  expensive.  But  it's  wool! 
Then  there  are  swanky  flannel  paja- 
mas, angora  sweaters  like  pussywillows, 
jaunty  housedresses  of  wool  crepe  (very 
practical,  because  they  can  be  washed 
and  kept  as  fastidiously  clean  as  ging- 


-  kind  to  everything 
it  touches  - 


ham).  Woolens  of  all  kinds  —  and 
what  lovely  ones  I  saw  when  I  visited 
the  Botany  Worsted  Mills  the  other  day. 

When  I  talked  to  salespeople  in  the 
leading  stores  all  over  the  country,  as 
I'm  constantly  doing,  I  found  that  they 
are  being  very  careful  about  the  advice 
they  give  this  season:  "When  you 
wash  woolens,"  they  are  saying  (as 
you'll  find  when  you  shop  yourself), 
"use  Ivory  Soap  or  Ivory  Flakes.  Wool- 
ens especially  need  a  pure  soap." 

Well,  most  of  us  know  that!  But 
we  cant  be  too  careful  with  wool.  Hot 
water  is  dangerous — it  shrinks  and 
mats  woolens  ...  A  soap  even  a  little 
less  pure  than  Ivory  harshens  and 
shrinks  wool. 

That's  why  you'll  get  advice  like 
this  which  I  heard  in  one  of  Philadel- 


1931.P.&G.C0. 


44/ 
/lOO 


%  pure 


phia's  leading  stores:  "Be  sure  to  use 
tepid  water  and  Ivor)-  Soap  for  woolens. 
It  will  cleanse  them  well  and  keep 
them  soft.  Other  soaps  are  likely  to 
be  too  harsh." 

Or:  "Absolutely  nothing  but  pure 
Ivory  Soap  or  Ivory  Flakes  should  be 
used  on  baby  woolens  —  not  only  to 
prevent  shrinking,  but  also  chafing  of 
the  baby's  skin."  (From  a  smart 
Detroit  shop.) 

Salespeople  feel  safer  when  they  ad- 
vise Ivory.  They  know  that  garments 
which  can  stand  water  alone  are  safe 
in  lukewarm  Ivory  suds.  And  you  can 
feel  confident  when  you  use  Ivor)'  — 
you  know  that  a  soap  pure  enough  for 
a  baby's  skin  is  safe  for  woolens,  silks, 
rayons — all  your  nicest  things. 

HOPE     ANDREWS 

Ne  w. .  Ivory  Snow 

QUICK  —  Ivory  Snow  is 
real  Ivory  Soap  blown  into 
snowy  pearls.  It  dissolves 
instantly  and  completely  at 
the  touch  of  lukewarm 
water.  Very'  kind  to  silks 
anj  woolens  because  it  is 
9944/100^  pure. 


' 

IVORY 

> 

> 
t 

^SNOW^ 

1 

for  silks  and  woolens 
dt»ofv*f  instantly 

The  National  Guide  to  Motion  Pictures 


DOROTHY 

AILL 


the  Battle  Is  On! 


1 


> 


Grecn-and-Pearl  or 

Black-and-Pearl  DcLuxe 
Senior  Size,  $10  Lady  Size,  $7.50 

junior  Size,  $8.50 
Midget  Vest-Parker,  $6 

u      ^-  -ZZT. : 

REMEMBER    GIFTS    AND    PRIZES 
10,000,000  Birthdays  This  Month  Alone 


Elected  the  Beauty  Pen 

by  hundreds  whom  we  asked  to  vote 

Captivates  Hollywood,  too! 


Parker  nowputsPressureless  Writing 
in  every  hand  by  putting  Pressureless 
Touch  in  a  most  remarkable  Pen. 

Joan  Crawford,  Metro  -Goldwyn - 
Mayer  star,  and  a  host  of  film  notables 
now  use  this  luxurious  new  Duofold. 

Its  touch  to  paper  is  the  lightest, 
gliding  action  you  ever  experienced  in 
a  pen.  Fine,  medium,  broad,  stub — 
choose  any  point,  and  you'll  marvel 
at  its  smoothness. 

Its  design  permits  the  same  Parker 
Pen  you  carry  in  your  pocket  or  hand- 
bag to  give  added  service  at  your 
desk.  A  slender  taper  to  convert  it 
comes  free  with  any  Parker  Desk  Base. 

So  be  not  content  now  with  ordi- 
nary pens.  See  these  new  streamlined 
beauties  in  their  lustrous  colors, 
including  the  gorgeous  new  Green- 
and-Pearl.  Contains  17.4%  greater 
ink  capacity  than  average. 

See  today  at  nearest  Parker  Dealers. 
Value  for  your  money  as  well  as  love  of 
beauty  demands  you  see  and  try  them. 

And  remember,  the  first  thing  to 
look  for  in  trying,  or  in  buying,  is  this 
name-"Geo.  S.  Parker- DUOFOLD'' 
on  the  barrel.  That  guarantees  the 
genuine  for  life. 

The  Parker  Pen  Company,  Janesville,  Wis. 


Pencils  to  match 
all  Duofold  Pens 

$2.50  to  $5; 
Other  Parker  Pens 
$2.75  <?//</ $3. 50 


duofold 

PEN    GUARANTEED    FOR    L I  F  E  •  $  5  '  *7  '  *  1 0 


Try  the  golden  glide 

of  this  Pressureless  Writer 

G  UARANTEE  D    for    LIFE 


*&■} 


THE    SAME    PEN    TWO    WAYS 

As  a  Pocket  Pen,  converted  for  Desk 

Only  the  Parker  serves  as  two  Pens  in  one  w  ith- 

out  extra  cost.  Take  from  pocket,  attach  sler.cer 

taper,  and  you  have  a  Desk  Pen,  at  will. 


The  lovely  Joan  Cranford,  Metro- 
Goldwyn- Mayer  Star,  was  using 
her  Parker  Pen  as  the  camera 
clicked,  for  Courtesy  writes  its  in- 
timate letters  by  hand. 


PHOTOPLAI     MAGAZINl     ink    I  i  l:l;i    \KV,    1931 


How  long  have  you  had 

"pink  tooth  brush  ? 


YOU  probably  don't  rtmmhr  when  you 
first  began  to  notice  "pink"  on  jronr 
tooth  brush.  Most  people  don't  go  into 
a  p.mic  over  that  hrsc  slight  tinge  of 
"'pink"  on  the  brush. 

It's  almost  inevitable  these  days — "pink 
tooth  brush."  The  gums  need  the  stimu- 
lation of  coarse  foods  .md  they  don't  get 
it.  Gradually  they  become  more  and 
more  laz\ — until  they're  so  tender  that 
they  bleed  on  the  slightest  provocation. 

And  suppose  you  don't  do  anything 
about  it.  Just  let  "pink  tooth  brush"  go 
on  and  on.    What  tbtn! 

It's  time  to  stop  "pink  tooth  brush" 

Pale  gums,  unhealthy  gums,  bleeding 
gums,  arc  an  open  invitation  to  various 
d i vases  of  the  gums — to  gingivitis,  Vin- 
cent's disease,  pyorrhea. 

But  far  more  serious  than  this — "pink 

tooth  brush"  may  eventually  lead  to  in- 

>n   at    the   roots   of  some   of  your 

soundest,  whitest  teeth.    And  that  often 

means  the  loss  of  otherwise  good  teeth. 

Vet  it's  the  simplest  thing  in  the  world 
to  check  and  to  defeat  "pink  tooth  brush" 
— before  it  docs  any  serious  harm! 

You  have  only  to  get  a  tube  of  Ipana 
Tooth  Paste.  Clean  your  teeth  with  it. 
Then — put  some  additional  Ipana  on  your 
brush  or  finger-tip,  and  massage  it  into 
your  gums.  The  ziratol  in  Ipana  is  the 
same  ziratol  used  by  dentists  in  toning  and 
stimulating  the  gums  back  to  health. 

In  a  few  days,  examine  your  teeth. 
Whiter,  aren't  they?  With  some  of  that 
sparkle  they  used  to  have  when  you  were 


very,  very  young.  They're  clean,  too. 
Rijssuringlj  clean. 

In  a  month,  examine  your  gums.  Any 
change?  Well,  rmtberi  They're  firmer,  now 
— pinker,  harder,  healthier.  They're  not 
bleeding — now.  Keep  on  using  Ipana  and 
massage — and  there'll  never  be  any  more 
"pink  tooth  brush"  to  worry  about! 

If  you  wish,  send  in  the  coupon  and  let 
us  send  you  a  trial  tube  of  Ipana.  But 
better  still— get  a  full-size  tube  from  your 


druggist,  today,  and  sec  what  a  full  thirty 
days  of   Ipana  and  massage   will  d 
your  teeth  and  your  gums. 

BRISTOL  -MYERS  CO  .  DeptI-21 
.  it  Micct,  New  WifK.  N.  Y. 
Kindly  send  me  a  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH 
PASTE.  Enclosed  u  a  two-cent  stamp  to  cuver  partly 
the  cost  of  packing  and  mailing. 


Strut 
Ot,  . 


SLlU 


IPANA  Toothpaste 


When  j-ou  write  to  adTertlserj  please  mention  PHOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


Zwe 
Greys 


&&&£* 


^    fefc^  GARY  i 


<i 


with 


COOPER 

Lily  llamita,  Ernest  Torrenee 
Fre«l  Kolilor  and  Tullv  Marshall 

Gary  Cooper,  adventurer,  and  ravishing 
Lily  Damita  are  the  lovers  in  this  mighty, 
moving  drama  of  the  old  West.  A  picture 
as  big  in  scope  as  "The  Covered  Wagon," 
set  in  gorgeous  natural  scenery,  a  cast  of 
thousands.  Scenes  of  action  and  daring 
that  fairly  take  your  breath  away,  a  story 
that  holds  you  spellbound  to  the  last.  That's 
Fighting  Caravans,"  a  Paramount  Picture, 
and  as  always  "If  it's  a  Paramount  Picture 
it's  the  best  show  in  town  1 " 


("paramount 

^^/I'ARAMOIHI  PUBUX  CORP..  Adolph  Zukor, 

Kiory  advertisement  In  PIIOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


Ernest  Torrence  and 
Tully  Marshall,  delight' 
Jul  old  reprobates. 


Pre*.,  Paramount  Bldg.,  N.  Y. 


PHOTOPLAY 

'I  be  World'i  I-  <■  i  ■  !  lag  Motion  Pii  !  i«  n 


Vol.  \\\l\  \      I 


|  Wins   R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publish* 


I  ■      1931 


Leonard  Hall,  .1/,/'/,;; 


W  inners  of  P  h  o  t  o  p  1  a  y 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  for 
the    best    picture    of   the    year 

is>2o                i*>:»  1^26 

"HUMOR-         "The  "BEAL 

ESQL'E"    COVERED  GESTF" 
WAGON" 

1921  Iv>-4  1^27 

"TOL'ABLE     ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 


it:: 

l'l:^ 

l^>2s' 

"ROBIN 

"THE  BIC 

•FOLR 

HOOD" 

PARADE" 

ION 

"DISRAELI" 

sons* 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets 


Friendly  Advice  <m  (iirK 
Problems 


Hollywood  Menus 

Tli<--.'  New  1  i,  es 
Addresses  of  the  Stars 
puts  of  Current  Photoplays 


10 

M 

H 

1  (8 


Higli-Li«rlits  of  This  Issue 

Close-1  ps  and  Long  Shots Jamm  it  Qctai 

Goofy  Genius  in  HoUyw 1 Jambi  \i    swum 

Seven  Boys  "On  The  Western  Front"      .  Saba  Ham 

A  Story  of  Love  and  Too  Mm-h  Money  told  in  Pictures 


Painting  Paris  Pink ! 

When  Hollywood  Cried  Real  Tears 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 

Garbo  vs.  Dietrich 

Hollywood's  Hundred  Million  Dollar  Kid 
Doug's  New  Picture  -Man-  Makes  One,  Too!    . 

What  I-  This  "Box-Office"? 

Meel  the  Folks  Who  Make  a  Talkie  "On  Location" 

Reeling  Around 

Marlene's  Buz  Night 


I  .  hi  s I 

Ihimi  t  r    <       ki' 

Leon  uto  II  ill 

II  miiiv  Lang 

It'  Til     \V  Ml. UIH   II  V 


Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

The  Shadow  Stage 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 

lVrsonalit  irs 

The  (drl  on  tin'  ( lover  ... 

Meel  Mrs.  Boyd! 

I  ).h-s  Wickedness  Paj  .... 

Why  Leslie  Penton  Came  Back 

A  Real  "Merton  of  the  Movies" 

The  Tomboy  of  tin*  Talkies 

When-  has  This  Artist  Been  Hiding? 

The  Prims  Donna  and  'the  old  Man" 


J\<   K    J  M 

BATHUIXI   Ai.iifht 
.    I'm  •    J 
.      Ji.vsir     \ 
KvTIlfHIM       \l  HfHT 

.    Leon  uid  Ihu 


Short  Story 


A  Million  Dollars 


I ; 
i<; 
5Q 
M 
66 
68 
7D 

7(1 


B4 


\S 


I>I\H     W  r  :  -  ••■        l'l 


Published  monthly  by  the  PHOTOPLAY  PfBli 

Editorial  Offices.  221  \V.  57th  St..  New  York.City  Publishing  Office.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave..  Chicago.  111. 

The  International  News  Company.  Ltd..  DistnbutingAgents,  5  Bream's  Building.  London.  England 

James  R.  Quirk,  President  Robert  M.  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathryn   Dougherty.  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  S2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba:  S3.00  Canada:  $3.50  for  foreign  countries.    Remittances 

should  be  made  byj  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    CAUTION— Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24.  1912.  at  the  Postornce  at  Chicago.  Ill  .  under  the  Act  of  March  3.  1879. 

Copyright.  1931.  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company.  Chicago 

5 


The  Girl 


on 


the  Cover 


TI I  E  way  that  Dorothy  Mack- 
aill  has  fought  her  way  through 
life  she  might  have  been  Irish, 
instead  of  North  Country 
English. 

She  has  been  to  war  with  the  small- 
est and  the  greatest — with  everybody 
from  her  father's  housekeeper  to 
studio  executives.  Never  once  has 
she  been  afraid  to  speak  her  piece, 
when  she  thought  it  necessary,  and  to 
take  the  consequences. 

She  got  fighting  angry  because  Zicg- 
feld  took  her  specialty  number  away 
from  her  after  she  had  left  the  "Fol- 
lies" and  gone  back  again.  So  she'd 
just  show  Mr.  Ziegfeld.  She'd  show 
him  by  making  a  success  in  pictures. 

She  got  fighting  angry  when  First 
National  Pictures  put  her  in  a  role  she 
knew  she  couldn't  do.  She  felt  it  was 
a  sappy  role.  The  heroine  had  to 
stand  at  a  gate  and  pray  that  her  lover 
would  come  back  to  her.  Dorothy 
wouldn't  do  that  sort  of  thing,  either 
in  real  life  or  on  the  screen.  She  said 
so. 

The  studio  wanted  to  break  her 
contract.     She  sued  the  studio  and 
went  to  England.    The  studio  cabled 
her  that  they  had  written  a  new 
contract. 

That  isn't  what  happens  to  most 
little  girls  who  go  to  war  with  big 
business  (as  witness  Janet  Gaynor). 
But  it  happens  to  girls  like  Dorothy. 
For  she  was  born  with  pluck  and 
courage. 

THE  fight  began  when  she  was 
eleven  years  old.  It  was  a  difficult 
situation  for  a  child.  Her  mother  and 
father  were  divorced.  Dorothy  fell 
into  the  custody  of  her  father.  And 
the  long  succession  of  housekeepers 
were  just  so  manv  thorns  in  Dorothy's 
side.  At  the  ninth,  she  revolted,  and 
refused  to  remain  at  home  any  longer. 
(Strangely  enough,  her  father  married 
this    very    housekeeper   and,    when 

Dorothy  went  to  England  recently,  she  found  a  wealth  of 
companionship  and  understanding  from  this  woman.) 

There  was  very  little  money  in  the  family,  but  Dorothy  was 
sent  to  an  expensive  school  in  London.  Picture  her  as  she  was 
then.  A  yellow-haired  little  girl  with  a  North  Country  accent 
you  could  serve  with  a  spoon,  among  the  carefully  protected, 
well  dressed  little  British  snobs.  Those  children  were  there 
because  it  was  the  place  to  be.  Dorothy  wanted  something 
else.  Her  young  mind  hungered  for  the  knowledge  stored  up 
in  the  books  upon  which  the  others  wasted  but  a  cursory  glance. 
Every  time  she  stood  up  to  recite  the  others  tittered  dis- 
creetly at  her  "frightfully  amusing"  accent.  She  wouldn't  let 
them  know  how  she  felt,  but  nights,  alone  in  her  bed,  she  wept 
bitterly.  Yet,  that  staunch  spirit  that  was  eventually  to  carry 
her  over  the  seas  of  success  was  at  work  within  her  then. 

SHE  found  a  place  as  a  dancer  at  the  London  Hippodrome, 
and  then  went  with  a  group  of  English  girls  to  Paris  to  work 
in  a  show  with  Maurice  Chevalier.  Her  father  followed  her 
there,  to  bring  her  back  to  Hull.  Dorothy  wouldn't  go.  She  had 
fought  too  hard  for  her  freedom,  and  it  was  sweet. 

It  was  by  the  merest  chance  that  she  came  to  America.  She 
became  one  of  the  glamorous  group  of  beauties  known  as 
"the  Follies  girls."    Ironically  enough,  Ziegfeld  picked  her  as 

G 


"If  you  don't  get  what  you  want,  fight  for 

it!"    That's  been  Dotty  Mackaill's  slogan 

ever  since  she  was  a  little  girl.    Here  she 

is,  in  her  fighting  togs! 


"the  typical  American  girl."  That 
decided  her.  They  should  not  laugh 
at  her  accent  any  longer.  She  would 
be  an  American.  So  she  worked — 
and  worked  hard — to  overcome  her 
thick  speech.  She  took  out  citizen- 
ship papers  and  sent  for  her  mother, 
who  is  still  with  her. 

And  it  was  right  after  this  that 
Marshall  Neilan  offered  her  a  part  in 
a  picture,  which  led  to  her  being 
signed  by  a  comedy  company  for 
eleven  two-reelers.  Ziegfeld  was 
none  too  pleased.  His  girls  couldn't 
walk  out  on  him  like  that,  so  when 
the  comedy  company  failed,  as  it  did 
with  one  brief  gasp,  and  Dorothy 
went  back  to  show-girling,  her 
specialty  number  was  taken  away 
from  her. 

THE  blood  of  the  trouper  had 
begun  to  sing  in  Dorothy's  veins 
and  she  didn't  stop  to  hurl  vitupera- 
tives  at  a  fate  which  had  played  her  a 
mean  trick.  Instead,  she  decided  to 
"show  'em."  She  would  make  a 
success  in  pictures! 

She  had  a  long  talk  with  herself 
one  morning.  Her  hair  was  long  and 
golden,  and  they  had  been  putting 
her  in  Gish-esque  roles.  She  knew  that 
wasn't  her  type.  It  was  the  beauty 
of  her  hair  and  not  her  ability  as  an 
actress  that  was  keeping  her  in  pic- 
tures. And,  if  that  were  the  case, 
the  offending  member  must  be  done 
away  with. 

A  few  simple  snips  of  the  scissors — 
and  Dorothy  emerged  a  shorn,  but 
sophisticated  looking  young  woman. 
On  the  strength  of  it  she  got  the  name 
role  in  "Chickie." 

But  the  fight  wasn't  over,  although 
it  seemed  simple  enough.  There  was 
a  long-term  starring  contract  with 
First  National.  There  was  her  mar- 
riage to  Lothar  Mendes,  a  famous 
director.  There  was  an  enormous 
weekly  salary  coming  in.  And  there 
was,  later,  her  divorce  from  Mendes. 

She  made  "Office  Wife,"  and  immediately  afterwards  was 
put  in  "River's  End." 

She  knew  she  couldn't  play  that  role. 

And  a  couple  of  days'  work  on  it  showed  her  even  more 
clearly  that  it  was  not  hers. 

EVERYBODY  called  her  foolish.  She  was,  they  said,  at  a 
critical  time  in  her  career,  as  was  every  other  screen  star 
just  then. 

But  Dorothy  wasn't  to  be  downed,  then  nor  ever.  The  studio 
tried  to  break  her  contract. 

She  sued,  and  went  to  England  to  await  the  outcome.  And 
when  she  sailed  she  had  no  idea  what  the  future  would  hold 
for  her. 

It  might  mean  the  finish  of  her  career. 

"Office  Wife"  was  released.  It  was  an  instantaneous  hit  and 
Dorothy  was  called  back,  with  a  new  contract,  to  the  home 
team. 

There  are  big  plans  for  her  now  at  First  National. 

She  has  been  loaned  to  Fox  for  two  pictures  and,  at  the 
moment,  is  doing  what  is  known  as  "riding  on  top  of  the 
world." 

And  if  a  game  spirit  will  do  it,  she'll  stay  there. 


Photoplay   Magazini    roi    I  ti      jiy.  1931 


ARRIED  LOVE 


DOtS  THE  MODERN 
GIRL  PREFER? 


OAFETV    in    marriage    or    daring    adventures    in 

stolen  love?  \\  hat  is  llie  real  truth  about  tnis 
modern  generation  s  attitude  toward  tne  once 
sacred   convention   ol   marriage  ■         ILLICI  tells, 

frankly  and  fearlessly,  tne  true-lo-lilc  story  <>! 
one  «irl  s  amazino  adventures  in  tne  dangerous 
business  ol   experimenting  with  love. 

^Vixaphonc"  is  the  regUtereti  iradfmark  of  The  J'itaphone  Corporation 


j.  a  tit  ring 

BARBARA  STANWYCK 

(  harm  S  Bl   ill  RWORTH  -  JAMES 

RENNIE  -  RICAREM  )  CORT1  Z  -  J<  >AN 

BLOND1  LL'N  VI  \I.II.  M<  K  REHEAD 

CLAUDE  GILLINGW  \Tl  R 

/,'(/>.(/  on  the  i'ln\  /<% 

Edith  Fitzgerald  and  Robert  Riskin 

DIRECTED      P.  V      ARCHIE     MAYO 


A  WARNER  BROS  AND  VITAPHONE  PRODUCTION 


When  you  wTi:e  to  idrertis«rs  ple»se  mention  rHOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


•  ABRAHAM  LINCOLN— United  Artists.— D. 
W.  Griffith  has  painted  the  great  humanity  of  a 
grr.it  man  with  a  master  touch.  Walter  Huston  is 
a  majestic  Lincoln,     (Oct.) 

ADIOS — First  National. — Richard  Barthelm 
an  early  California  Robin  Hood.  Colorful  and  charm- 
ing.    You'll  like  it.     (Dec.) 

AFRICA  SPEAKS — Columbia.— Interesting  trav- 
elogue with  animal  thrills,  considerably  dramatized. 
But  it  has  a  kick.     (Dec.) 

ALONG  CAME  YOUTH— Paramount.— Just    a 

light  Charles  Buddy)  Rogers  picture,  with  laughs 
from  Stuart  Erwin.  Nobody  sings,  anyway.  And 
that's  something.      (Dec.) 

ANIMAL  CRACKERS— Paramount.— The  Four 
Marx  Brothers,  who  scored  in  "The  Cocoanuts."  turn 
another  of  their  musical  shows  into  a  talkie  comedy, 
and  click  again.    (Oct.) 

WYBODY'S  WOMAN— Paramount.— Ruth 
Chatterton  as  a  hard-boiled  burlesque  queen.  The 
story  misses  greatness,  but  the  Chatterton-Brook  team 
is  well  worth  your  money.     (Oct.) 

ARE  YOU  THERE?  —  Fox.  —  Beatrice  Lillie. 
comedy  queen  of  London,  tries  hard  to  be  funny  as 
a  lady  detective,  but  she  never  quite  clicks.  Bee 
isn't  there,  nor  is  her  picture.     (Nov.) 

ATLANTIC — British  International.— English  dia- 
logue may  bore  you.  but  the  melodrama  must  have 
been  based  on  the  Titanic  catastrophe  and  it  affords 
some  creditable  sea  thrills.     (Dec.) 

BACK  PAY— First  National. — Too  bad  it  doesn't 
leave  us  with  pleasanter  memories  to  mark  Corinne 
Griffith's  retirement  from  the  screen.    (Aug.) 

BAD  MAN,  THE— First  National.— Walter  Hus- 
ton swaggers  through  this,  making  it  good  entertain- 
ment.    (.4  ug.) 

•  BAT  WHISPERS,  THE— United  Artists.— 
Daddy  of  all  scare  movies,  and  it's  a  lulu. 
The  cameramen  and  Chester  Morris  share  first 
honors.     (Jan.) 

BIG  BOY — Warners. — Al  Jolson,  mostly  in 
blackface,  sings  generously  and  cracks  funny  gags. 
Race-track  intrigue  made  into  comedy.     (Sept.) 

•  BIG  HOUSE,  THE— M-G-M.—  Inspired  by 
real  life  stories  of  prison  riots  and  intelligently 
rroduced.  Chester  Morris  and  Robert  Montgomery 
outstanding.     (Aug.) 

BIG  MONEY— Pathe.— Eddie  Quillan's  luck  at 
cards  drags  him  among  the  big-time  gamblers.  But 
it's  all  a  lot  of  fun  and  Eddie's  fresh  wisecracks  will 
convulse  you.      (Jan.) 

•  BIG  TRAIL,  THE— Fox— Now.  here's  an 
epic!  Buffalo  hunt,  Indians,  thrills,  pictorial 
beauty.  Raoul  Walsh's  supreme  directorial  achieve- 
ment. Greater  than  "The  Covered  Wagon."  John 
Wayne,  newcomer,  moves  right  into  the  star  class. 
(So::) 

•  BILLY  THE  KID— M-G-M— Johnny  Mack 
Brown  gives  the  show  of  his  life  as  the  boy  out- 
law. Not  history.  But  who  wants  history.'  The 
movie's  a  pip.    (Dec.) 

BORDER  ROMANCE— Tiffany  Prod.— Worth- 
while only  because  the  little  Mexican  minx,  Armida, 
stars.    (.-I  ug.) 

BOUDOIR  DIPLOMAT,  THE— Universal.— 
Sophisticated  comedy,  cleverly  acted  by  Betty  Comp- 
son  and  Ian  Keith.  A  few  dull  moments  but  many  de- 
lightful ones,  subtly  naughty.     (Dec.) 

BRIDE  OF  THE  REGIMENT— First  National. 
— Sumptuously  mounted,  Technicolored  operetta,  but 
slow-paced.     (Aug.) 

BRIGHT  LIGHTS— First  National.— All-Techni- 
color musical  extravaganza.  You'll  like  Dorothy 
Mackaill  and  Frank  Fay.    (Aug.) 

8 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwi»e  designated  are  All  Talkie 


•^Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


BROTHERS— Columbia.— Bert  Lytell  acts  a 
dual  r&lc  in  a  mildly  effective  melodramatic  thriller. 
(Jan.) 

•  CALL  OFTHEFLESH-M-G-M.-(Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Singer  of  Seville") — Ro- 
mantic story  tailored  to  Ramon  Novarro's  talents. 
Ramon  sings  and  acts  with  charm  and  Dorothy 
Jordan  is  delightful.     (Sept.) 

CAPTAIN   APPLEJACK— Warners— All   in  fun 

— and  what  fun!  A  blase  young  man  finds  adventure 
among  the  pirates.  Heavy  loving  between  John 
Halliday  and  Kay  Strozzi,  with  Mary  Brian  as  the 
nice  girl.     (Nov.) 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  romantic 
bandit  rights  some  wrongs.  You  know  the  plot, 
but  it's  still  a  lot  of  fun.  Victor  Varconi  is  the  dash- 
ing Captain  and  Fay  Wray  airs  her  cute  Spanish 
accent.     (Nov.) 

CAT  CREEPS,  THE  — Universal.— Your  old 
friend,  "The  Cat  and  the  Canary,"  now  a  talkie. 
Shivers  and  thrills!  A  wow  scare-movie.  Neil  Hamil- 
ton leads  a  great  cast.     (Dec.) 


Famous 

PHOTOPLAY 

Features 

The  Shadow  Stage 

Hollywood  Menus 

Advice     on  Girls1  Problems 

Addresses  of  the  Stars 

Brief    Reviews    of    Current 
Pictures 

Casts  of  Current  Pictures 

Questions  and  Answers 

A   remarkable  presentation   of  in- 
formation and  service  every  month. 

March  Issue  on  Sale  Feb.  15. 


CHARLEY'S  AUNT— Columbia.— The  old  farce 
is  still  funny.  Charles  Ruggles  makes  it  worth  seeing 
again.      (Jan.) 

•  CHECK  AND  DOUBLE  CHECK— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Amos  n'  Andy  materialize  on  the 
screen,  with  Kingfish  and  the  Fresh  Air  Taxi!  Dis 
am  entertainment!     (Dec.) 

COHENS  AND  KELLYS  IN  AFRICA,  THE— 

Universal. — Charlie  Murray  and  George  Sidney.    A 
scream  from  start  to  finish.      (Jan.) 

COLLEGE  LOVERS— First  National.— The  old 
football  stuff,  even  if  the  hero  doesn't  make  a  last 
minute  touchdown.  Jack  Whiting  and  Marian  Nixon 
are  the  lovers.      (Nov.) 


COMMON  CLAY— Fox.— Interesting  dramatic 
talkie  from  the  old  stage  play,  with  a  "Madame  X" 
type  of  plot.     Constance  Bennett  stars.     (Sept.) 

CONCENTRATIN"  KID.  THE— Universal.— 
Hoot  Gibson  falls  in  love  with  a  radio  voice.  A 
weak-sister  for  Hoot.      (Jan.) 

CONSPIRACY— Radio  Pictures.— Bessie  Love's 
talents  are  lost  in  this.  Reminds  us  of  the  senior 
class  play  I    (Sept.) 

COSTELLO  CASE,— Sono  Art— James  Cruze. — 
The  sweethearts  are  suspected  of  murder  again. 
Tom  Moore  is  the  wise  copper.  Pretty  obvious 
melodrama.     (Jan.) 

DANGER  LIGHTS— Radio  Pictures.— You'll  be 
all  over  the  seat  during  the  wild  ride  into  Chicago. 
with  Robert  Armstrong  at  the  throttle  and  Louis  Wol- 
heim  dying  in  a  coach  behind.    (Oct.) 

DANGEROUS  NAN  McGREW— Paramount.— 
Proving  that  mere  "cuteness"  doesn't  make  a  picture. 
This  one  needs  a  story-     Helen  Kane  is  Nan.  (Sept.) 

•  DAWN  PATROL,  THE— First  National.— 
Nary  a  woman  in  this.  Barthelmess,  Doug, 
Jr.,  and  Neil  Hamilton  in  powerful  war  picture  with 
thrills  a-plenty!     (Sept.) 

DERELICT — Paramount. — Big  Boy  Bancroft  and 
William  (stage)  Boyd  fight  a  grand  fight.  And  there 
are  lots  of  storms  at  sea.  Why  sorry'  about  the  storv? 
(Dec.) 

DEVIL  WITH  WOMEN,  A  —  Fox  —  (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "On  the  Make")— A  McLaglen  formula 
picture,  with  Vic  the  usual  swaggering,  lovable 
bully.     Mona  Maris  is  lovely.     (Sept.) 

DICH  HAB  ICH  GELIEBT  'Because  I  Loved 
You) — AAFA-Tobis. — Though  it's  in  German,  you 
needn't  understand  the  language  to  enjoy  this  sweet 
love  story.      (Jan.) 

DIVORCE    AMONG    FRIENDS.— Warners. 

— Heigh  ho,  the  husband  and  wife  quarrel  and  make 
up!    Lew  Cody  is  the  only  bright  spot.    (Dec.) 

DIXIANA — Radio  Pictures. — Everett  Marshall 
:rom  the  Metropolitan  Opera  adds  voice  and  person- 
ality to  a  charming  operetta.  Bebe  Daniels  at  her 
best.     (A  ug.) 

DOORWAY  TO  HELL,  THE— Warners— Lew 
Ayres  as  a  gangster  with  a  Napoleonic  complex. 
Lew  is  great.     The  picture's  pretty  good.     {Nov.) 

DOUGH  BOYS— M-G-M— An  evening  of  laughs. 
Sad-faced  Buster  Keaton  wanders  through  some  of 
the  funniest  gags  ever.     (Oct.) 

DU  BARRY— WOMAN  OF  PASSION— United 

Artists. — Passion?  Well,  hardly.  Norma  Talmadge 
gives  a  hint  of  her  old  fire,  but  loses  in  the  fight 
against  long,  artificial  speeches.  Conrad  Nagel  and 
William  Farnum  are  excellent.     (Nov.) 

DUMBBELLS  IN  ERMINE— Warners.— Prize- 
fights and  love.  Robert  Armstrong,  Jimmy  Gleason, 
and  Beryl  Mercer.    Lots  of  fun.     (Aug.) 

EAST  IS  WEST— Universal.— Lupe  Velez  plays 
Ming  Toy.  Edward  G.  Robinson  isChinalown Charlie. 
They  should  have  made  the  old  play  convincing,  but 
something  went  wrong.     (Dec.) 

ESCAPE— Associated  Radio  Pictures.— An  Eng- 
lish talkie  about  an  escaped  prisoner.  Far  too 
talkie.     (Jan.) 

EX-FLAME— Liberty  Productions. — Your  old 
friend  "East  Lynne"  dressed  up  in  modern  clothes 
and  played  by  Norman  Kerry  and  Marian  Nixon. 
Old-fashioned  and  unconvincing.     (Jan.) 

EXTRAVAGANCE— Tiffany  Productions.— Fash- 
ions and  passions  blended  in  a  display  that  will  make 
the  audience  gasp.     Don't  take  Junior.     (Dec.) 
[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  12  ] 


PBOTOP]  W   M  \..\/im 


LOUISE  DRESSER 

JOEL  McCREA    HELEN  COHAN 
SHARON  LYNN 

ILL  ROGERS,  wizard  of 
wise-cracks  ...  as  the 
azy,  lovable  landlord  of  a 
divorce  hotel  —  in  a  far  west 
Paradise  of  scenic  beauty.  Will 
Rogers  —  host  to  a  houseful  of 
love-loose,  man-wise,  marvel- 
ous divorcees.  Will  Rogers  — 
helping  a  hanasome  six-foot 
hero  fight  clear  to  the  most  wonderful  girl 
n  the  world.  Will  Rogers  —  after  his  suc- 
cess in  "They  Had  to  See  Paris"  and  "So  This 
is  London" — in  his  role  of  roles  —  LIGHTNIN'. 


A  FOX   MOVIETONE   adapted   from 
stage  success 


the 


SK^JOHN    GOLDEN 


F#X 


When  you  wTlte  to  idrenlstis  ple»se  mention  rHOTOPLAT  MAGAZI.VE. 


Brickbats  £?  Bouquets 


w 


The  $25  Letter 

Monrovia,  Calif. 


HY: 


Do   critics   rave  about  Nancy   Carroll 
and  Phillips  Holmes? 

Don't  they  re-issue  some  Valentino  films? 

Doesn't  Greta  Garbo  make  more  pictures? 

Doesn't  someone  tell  Jeanette  MacDonald 
that  simplicity  is  the  keynote  to  chic? 

Did  they  let  Charles  Farrell  play 
"Liliom"? 

Don't  we  see  more  of  Leila  Hyams  and 
less  of  Anita  Page? 

Do  they  always  make  Gary  Cooper  appear 
sheepish  and  diffident  in  his  love  scenes? 

Doesn't  Clara  Bow  quit  using  so  much 
makeup  and  frizzing  her  hair? 

Doesn't  everyone  rave  about  Claudette 
Colbert? 

Don't  the  critics  run  out  of  superlatives 
when  they  talk  about  Gloria  Swanson  in 
"What  a  Widow"  ? 

Alice  Simpson 

The  $10  Letter 

Richmond,  Va. 

T  AM  one  of  the  truest  motion  picture  fans 
*•  that  ever  lived,  but  there  is  one  thing  I 
certainly  wish  producers  would  attend  to. 

While  a  picture  is  being  made  they  give 
it  a  certain  title  with  a  good  amount  of  pub- 
licity. I  get  my  heart  all  set  on  going  to  see 
it  only  to  find  that  it  has  been  here  and 
gone,  but  under  another  name. 

Couldn't  they  make  up  their  minds  and 
let  them  stay  made? 

Ann  Winfield 

The  $5  Letter 

New  York  City,  N.  Y. 

T  LTRID  and  sensational  advertising  in  the 
■'-'  daily  papers  and  the  exploitation  out- 
side theaters,  together  with  the  "spicy" 
titles  tacked  onto  the  pictures  these  days  in 
an  effort  to  stimulate  public  interest  is  hav- 
ing just  the  opposite  effect. 

10 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Cri  tics 

PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten  and   Five   Dollar  Prizes   for  the 

Best    Letters 


Just  plain  spiteful  letters  won't  be  printed,  for  we  want 
to  be  helpful  when  we  can.  Don't  write  more  than  200 
words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your  name 
and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't  write. 
Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  Photoplay,  221  West 
57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the  right 
to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations.  Come  on  in 
and  speak  your  mind! 


It  is,  in  most  cases,  an  unfair  representa- 
tion of  the  very  film  they  are  trying  to  "put 
over"  and  keeps  a  large  percentage  of  the 
public  out  of  the  theaters. 

It  is  undoubtedly  responsible  for  the  drop 
in  attendance  of  the  children. 

Why  cheapen  an  otherwise  great  industry 
by  this  suggestive  advertising  and  foolish 
exploitation  ? 

Vesta  Stevens 

A  Good  Word  for  Trailers 

Milwaukee,  Wis. 

T"*\ESPITE  all  opinions  to  the  contrary  I 
-*-'  firmly  contend  that  a  "trailer"  is  the 
greatest  drawing  card  a  picture  can  have.  It 
arouses  my  interest,  piques  my  curiosity  and 


GARBOMANIA  is  raging  through- 
out the  country  this  month  and 
cries  of  "One  Garbo — all  the  rest 
are  imitation!"  deluge  the  fan  mail. 
Marlene  Dietrich  catches  numerous 
bouquets  for  her  good  work  in  "Morocco" 
and  the  picture  is  well  liked,  but,  you 
win,  Greta,  on  this  month's  mail.  Now, 
bring  on  "Inspiration!" 

Raoul  Walsh  can  take  bows  for  giving 
"The  Big  Trail"  to  a  public  weary  of 
drawing  room  dramas,  and  the  fans  want 
to  see  more  of  John  Wayne,  the  stalwart 
hero. 

No  one  can  sing  a  theme  song  like 
Ramon  Novarro.  He  is  the  screen's 
Prince  Charming.  But,  say  the  fans,  he 
deserves  more  beautiful  leading  women. 

The  "It"  girl  has  been  wronged,  ac- 
cording to  countless  correspondents. 
She  should  be  taken  out  of  the  Navy  and 
given  better  stories  and  less  publicity. 
As  if  they  could  stop  publicity  on  Clara! 

William  Haines  is  a  runner-up  with 
Novarro  for  popularity  this  month  and 
Marie  Dressier  gets  honorable  mention 
for  her  fine  characterization  in  "Min  and 
Bill."  Everybody  likes  Mitzi  Green  in 
"Tom  Sawyer,"  Fredric  March  in 
"Laughter,"  Kay  Francis  in  "The  Vir- 
tuous Sin,"  Eddie  Cantor  in  "Whoopee" 
and  Ann  Harding  in  anything,  and  there 
are  loud  wails  for  more  pictures  for  the 
children. 

Give  'em  some  Westerns! 


convinces  me  that  my  seeing  the  picture  is 
an  absolute  necessity. 

Miss  Florence  M.  L.  Durnin 

In  Re  Mr.  Tully 

Louisville,  Ky. 

TF  M-G-M  had  to  put  Mr.  Tully  in  pictures 
•*■  because  of  the  publicity  he  caused  by 
flooring  Mr.  Gilbert  in  a  scrap  some  time 
ago,  why  didn't  they  start  him  out  in  a 
"short"  or  still  better,  let  him  make  up  part 
of  a  newsreel? 

Fred  Young 

Fie!  for  Shame! 

Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

"K/TISS  DIETRICH  has  come  too  late. 
Ivlw/e  worship  only  one  idol  and  she  is 
Garbo. 

We  resent  the  intrusion  of  this  Marlene 
Dietrich. 

There  is  no  place  for  her  in  our  hearts. 

We  do  not  want  her. 

M.  Harrington 

Cheers  for  Marlene 

New  York  City,  X.  Y. 

"\  AY  highest  praise  goes  to  Marlene  Diet- 
■*•»■•■  rich  for  her  superb  handling  of  the 
part  in  "Morocco."  She  is  Greta  Garbo, 
but  with  greater  vigor;  she  is  Jeanne  Eagels, 
but  with  more  warmth  and  emotion. 

Her    ability    must    have    acted    in    some 

mysterious    way   upon   Gary   Cooper.      For 

once  he  really  acted,  not  just  posed  in  his 

customary  strong  and  silent  he-man  fashion. 

Florence  Lipkin 

More  Talkies  for  Tots 

Coleman,  Texas 

T\  THY  can't  we  have  more  moving  pic- 
v^'      tures  for  the  children?     "Tom  Saw- 
yer" is  the  first  "kids"  picture  that  has  been 
made  in  a  long  time. 

What  with  drawing  room  dramas  drip- 
ping with  English  accents  and  epigrams, 
musical  comedies  with  undressed  chorines 
and  murder  mysteries,  I  should  imagine  the 
kids  have  a  poor  time  of  it. 

Leah  Bodine  Drake 
[please  turn  to  page  102] 


I'll. IK. PI    \\      M  \..\/IM      l.>k     1   |  |!Hl    \K\. 


1    1 


OUR  DICK! 

— in  an  ovt'ii  greater  part 
I  lian  be  |»  I  ;i\  « •  <1  in  The 
Dawn  PatroL 

— a  bard-fisted,  quiek- 
shooting  daredevil! 

— a  steel-hearted  avenger 
ofwrona.  l>nt  a  lover — ten- 
der,  romantic  and  winning! 

— under  the  sting  of  a  burn- 
ing lash  he  rises  to  new 
heights  of  dramatic  power! 

PUT  "THE  LASH"  ON  YOUR  LIST 
OF  PICTURES  THAT  MUST  BE  SEEN! 


^ 


rr. 


V 


\ 


***£. 


I 


\k%  II 


lVWSSE5 


"I  itaphon 


rgistered  trademark  of  The  %'itaphone  Corporation. 


MARY  ASTOR 
MARIAN  NIXON 
I  RED  KOIILER 
JAMES  RENNIE 

Ha*fci    upon    the    »/<ir>      "liiioi" 

fc»    lontrr  flartlett  ana*    I  ir*ini/i 

>/ir*ri  BortUtt.      Srrren  w  fninn 

fcv  ftrariU-*   Am* 

A  FRANK  LLOYD 

PRODl'CTIO  N 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  &VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


When  you  write  to  idrertlsers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


EYES  OF  THE  WORLD  Inked  Artists— This 
Harold  Bell  Wright  standby,  in  its  tulkn  dress,  is 
cumbersome  movie  stuff.    (Oct.) 

FAIR  WARNING— Fnx.-George  O'Brien  as  the 
honest  Western  lad  who  slays  the  wicked  villain  and 
wins  the  girl.     (Jan.) 

•  FATHER'S  SON— First  National.— A  simple 
story,  line  and  human.  Lewis  Stone.  Irene 
Rich,  Leon  Janney.  Here  are  actors — and  a  notable 
film.     (Dec.) 

•      FEET    FIRST— Paramount.— Harold    Lloyd 
rings  the  bell  again — with  both  feet.     You'll 
shriek  and  squeal.     (Dec.) 

FLAME  OF  LOVE,  THE— British  International. 
— Anna  May  Wong  as  a  Chinese  vamp  in  Russia. 
Hut  it  really  matters  very  little.      (Jan,) 

FLIRTING  WIDOW,  THE— First  National.— 
Dorothy  Mackaill  scores  a  bull  s-eyc  in  this  clever 
comedy,  in  a  part  that  suits  her  to  a  couple  of  T's. 
{Oct.) 

FOLLOW  THE   LEADER— Paramount.— Ed 

Wynn's  a  howl  in  this  dandy  transcription  of  his  stage 
hit,  "Manhattan  Mary."  A  musical  comedy,  but 
it.-  a  honey.    (Dec.) 

FOLLOW  THRU— Paramount.— All-Technicolor 
golf  musical  comedy,  and  all  good,  fast  entertain- 
ment.    Nancy  Carroll  and  Charles  Rogers.    (Sept.) 

FOR  THE  DEFENSE— Paramount.— Bill  Powell 
as  a  criminal  lawyer  who  lets  love  interfere  with  busi- 
ness and  lands  in  prison.  Kay  Francis  the  girl  who 
waits  for  him.     Good.     (Sept.) 

FOUND— Ralph  P.  King  Productions.— Australia 
sponsored  this  travel  film.  It's  excellent,  except  for  a 
goofy  ending.     (Dec.) 

GIRL  OF  THE  GOLDEN  WEST— First  Na- 
tional.— Ann  Harding  gives  zest  to  the  old  Belasco 
drama.     Fine  support  and  a  surprise  finale.     (A  ug.) 

GOING  WILD  —  First  National.  —  Remember 
Doug  MacLean  in  "Going  Up"?  This  is  a  revival, 
with  Joe  E.  Brown  as  the  funny  fellow  who  is  mis- 
taken for  an  aviator.  Some  laughs  and  some  dull 
spots.     (Nov.) 

GOLDEN  DAWN— Warners.— Vivienne  Segal  in 
all-Technicolor  operetta.     Dull.     (Oct.) 

GOOD  INTENTIONS— Fox.— Crave  excite- 
ment? See  Eddie  Lowe  as  a  master-crook  in  love  with 
a  high-society  lass.     (A  ug.) 

GOOD  NEWS— M-G-M  —  College  run  rampant, 
and  set  to  music.  Bessie  Love,  Stanley  Smith  and 
Lola  Lane.     [A  ug.) 

GORILLA,  THE— First  National.— A  goodish 
enough  thriller — but  it's  been  dolefully  slowed  down 
for  the  screen.  Frisco,  Broadway  funnyman,  is  less 
funny  than  usual.      (Nov.) 


•     GRUMPY  — Paramount. — Grand  entertain- 
ment.   Cyril   Maude's  screen  debut,  in  his  fa- 
in jus  stage  portrayal  of  a  lovable  old  crab.    (Aug.) 

•  HALF  SHOT  AT  SUNRISE— Radio  Pictures. 
— Who  said  "depression"?  Co  A  W  O  L  with 
Wheel,  r  and  Woolsey  in  Paris.  The  most  rollicking 
nonsensi  ever  devised.    (Nov.) 

HEADIN"  NORTH— Tiffany  Productions.— Bob 
Steele  with  his  horse-,  cowboy  suit  and  a  coupla  guns. 
A  sizzling  hot  Western.      (Jan.) 

HEADS  UP— Paramount.— Charles  (Ex-Buddy) 
Rogers  in  a  pleasant  little  musical  comedy  about  a 

dashing  coast  guardsman.    Not  historic — except  that 
Buddy  smokes  his  first  cigarette!     (Dec.) 

HELL'S  ANGELS— Caddo  Prod.— Three  years 
and  $4,000,000  were  invested  in  this.  Worth  seeing — 
but  $4,000,000  worth?     (Aug.) 

HELL'S  ISLAND— Columbia.— The  Jack  Holt- 
Ralph  Craves  team  turns  out  a  slam-bang  picture  of 
love,  hate  and  friendship  in  the  Foreign  Legion. 
(Oct.) 

•  HER  MAN — Pathe. — "He  was  her  man,  but 
he  done  her  wrong" — I'rankie  and  her  erring 
Johnnie  further  immortalized  on  celluloid  in  the  in- 
teresting persons  of  Helen  Twelvetrees  and  Phillips 
Holmes.      (Nov.) 

HER  WEDDING  NIGHT— Paramount.— Clara. 
the  Bow,  en  negligee  in  Paris.  Bedrooms  and  boy 
friends.     Light,  but  quite  cute.     (Dec.) 

•     HOLIDAY— Pathe.— Ann  Harding  as  a  poor 
little  rich  girl,  Mary  Astor  and  a  perfect  cast 
make  a  splendid  picture.     (Aug.) 

HOT  CURVES— Tiffany  Prod.— Not  what  the 
title  might  indicate,  unless  you  know  your  baseball 
vernacular.     (A  ug.) 

HOT  HEIRESS,  THE— First  National.— A  mil- 
lionaire's daughter  on  the  make  for  a  steel  riveter, 
poor  but  virile.  Loads  of  fun.  Ben  Lyon's  the  gent, 
and  what  a  cutie  is  Ona  Munson!     (Dec.) 

•  ILLICIT — Warners. — Another  triumph  for 
Barbara  Stanwyck,  who  plays  a  modern 
maiden  who  wants  love  without  marriage.  A  dar- 
ing film,  strong  and  moving.      (Jan.) 

INSIDE  THE  LINES— Radio  Pictures— Old  style 
war  stuff,  with  spies,  secret  service,  trick  Hindus,  and 
a  love  in  wartime  theme.  Betty  Compson  and  Ralph 
Forbes.     (Sept.) 

JAZZ  CINDERELLA,  THE— Chesterfield.— Poor 
girl  captures  rich  boy.  Myrna  Loy  and  Jason  Ro- 
bards  do  as  well  as  they  can,  wliich  isn't  much.   (Dec.) 

•  JUST  IMAGINE— Fox.— Life  in  1980!  Mad 
buffoonerv.  funny,  ironic  and  different.  El 
Brendel  heads  the  dandv  cast.  Top  entertainment. 
(Dec.) 

KATHLEEN  MAVOURNEEN— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Sally  O'Neii  is  the  colleen.  Save  your  monev. 
{Oct.) 


•      KISMET— Fir- 1     National.— Distinguished 
(in     skinner  make-  hia  talkie  bow.     Beautiful 
fantasy,  but  fantasy.     (Dec.) 

LADIES  IN  LOVE— Hollywood  Pictures,  Inc.— 
Let's  not  talk  about  this  one.     (Aug.) 

•  LADY'S  MORALS,  A— M-G-M.—  Introduc- 
ing (.race  Moore,  young  and  beautiful  Ml  tro- 
politan  Opera  prima  donna.  A  lovely  voice  and  a 
charming  story,  based  on  the  life  of  Jenny  Lind. 
Reginald  Denny  is  fine  opposite  the  star.     (Dec.) 

LADY  SURRENDERS,   A— Universal— Marital 
subtly  and  delightfully  described  by  Conrad 
Nagel,   Genevieve   Tobin,    Rose   Hobart  and    Basil 
Rathbone.    A  charming  picture.     (Dec.) 

LADY  WHO  DARED,  THE— First  National.— 
Billie  Dove  in  an  aged  and  faltering  story  about  a  dip- 
lomat's wife  who  gets  in  a  mess  with  blackmailers. 
(Oct.) 

LAND  OF  MISSING  MEN,  THE— Tiffany 
Productions. — A  Bob  Steele  Western.  Hard  ridin', 
and  that's  all  there  is  to  it.     (Jan.) 

LAST  OF  THE  DUANES— Fox.— Even  if  you're 
not  a  Western  fan  you'll  like  this.  George  O'Brien 
stars.     (Sept.) 

LAST  OF  THE  LONE  WOLF— Columbia.— The 
perennial  Lone  Wolf  in  the  person  of  ageless  Bert 
Lytell.  After  much  rushing  about,  Bert  preserves  the 
queen's    fair    name!      It    all    happens   in    mythical 

Saxonia.      (Jan.) 

•     LAUGHTER— Paramount— Nancy  Carroll 
and  Fredric  March  in  love — with  a  millionaire 
husband  in  the  background.     A  bewitching  picture. 

Sec  it.     (Dec.) 

LAWFUL  LARCENY— Radio  Pictures.— Bebe 
Daniels  and  Lowell  Sherman  in  sophisticated  melo- 
drama that  you'll  like.     (Sept.) 

LEATHERNECKING— Radio  Pictures.— An- 
other musical  romance,  but  you'll  roll  with  laughter 
while  a  rare  cast  of  funsters  do  their  stuff.     (Oct.) 

L'ENIGMATIQUE    MONSIEUR    PARKES   — 

Paramount.  —  The  French  version  of  "Slightly 
Scarlet,"  with  M.  Adolphe  Menjou  and  Mile.  Claud- 
ette  Colbert  in  the  leads.  Made  for  the  French,  but 
interesting  to  Americans,  too.    (Nov.) 

LET  US  BE  GAY— M-G-M.— Norma  Shearer  in 
another  swell  sophisticated  drama,  with  Marie  Dress- 
ier, Gilbert  Emery  and  Rod  La  Rocque.    (A  ug.) 

LIFE  OF  THE  PARTY',  THE— Warners- 
Winnie  Lightner  roughhouses  in  high  class  Techni- 
color and  Havana's  fast  set.     What  laughs!     (Jan.) 

•  LIGHTNIN'— Fox.— Don't  miss  this,  for  it's 
Will  Rogers  at  his  best.  A  real  story  about 
the  Nevada  divorce  mill,  a  fine  cast,  brilliant  di- 
rection. And  the  choicest  Rogers  observations. 
What  more  could  you  ask?      (Jan.) 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list. 


Page 

Anybody's  Girl — Columbia 118 

Bachelor  Father,  The— M-G-M 55 

E\-Mistress — Warners 55 

Blue  Angel,  The — UFA-Paramount. . .  .   53 
Chiselers   of    Hollywood — Willis    Kn  t 

Production 118 

Cimarron — Radio  Pictures .54 

Command  Performance,  The — Tiffany- 

Cruze  Productions 119 

Criminal  Code,  The — Columbia 5*2 

Dancers,  The — Fox 118 

1  )a\vn  Trail,  The— Columbia 120 

Devil    to    Pay,  The — United   Artists- 
Sam  Goldwyn r<2 

Devil's  Battalion,  The — Radio  Pictures.  53 


Page 

Fast  and  Loose — Paramount 120 

Fighting  Caravans — Paramount 118 

For  the  Love  O'  Lil— Columbia 1 20 

Free  Love — Universal 118 

Great  Meadow,  The— M-G-M 53 

Hate  Ship,  The— British  International.  120 
Hook,  Line  and  Sinker — Radio  Pictures    55 

Inspiration — M-G-M 54 

Just  Like  Heaven — Tiffany  Productionsl  19 
Madonna  of  the  Streets — Columbia.  ...  119 

Men  Without  Law — Columbia 119 

Only  Saps  Work — Paramount 55 

Phantom  of  the  Desert, The — Syndicatel20 
Princess  and  the  Plumber,  The — Fox  55 
Rango — Paramount 54 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 84 


Page 
Reaching  for  the  Moon — United  Artists    54 

Reducing— M-G-M 118 

Right  to  Love,  The — Paramount 54 

Royal  Bed,  The — Radio  Pictures 54 

Royal    Family    of    Broadway,    The — 

Paramount 52 

Scandal  Sheet — Paramount 55 

Sous  les  Toits    de    Paris   (Under    the 

Roofs  of  Paris)— Tobis 120 

Two  Worlds— British  International         120 
Under    Montana    Skies — Tiffany    Pro- 
ductions   120 

Westward  Bound — Syndicate 119 

Wild  Men  of  Kalihari — Travel  Film.  .  .  .  120 
YellowMask.The-British  International  120 


12 


PhOTOPLM    M\«.\/im.   |cik    I  i  inn   kby,    1931 


How  a  second  meeting 
ruined  their  romance 

'B.O.'  lost  her  many  on  admirer  until — 


I 


(Body  Odor) 

— T  hope  you'll  come  again,"  she  said. 
But  she  Knew  he  wouldn't.  She  could  feel 
be  bad  lost  interest  in  her,  just  as  other  men 
had. 

Yel  last  night,  when  they  met  for  the  fir>t 
time,  he  had  seemed  instantly  attracted 
eager  to  call.  Why  had  this  evening  been  a 
failure?    Why   had   he   turned  so  cool  and 
distant? 

Now  she  knows  the  reason.   Knows  why 
she  couldn't  hold  admirers — had  no  intimate 
girl  Friends.  Let  her  tell  you  how  she  ended 
her  fault — won  popularity. 
•      •      • 

"It  was  a  terrible  shock  to  learn  that  / 
was  guilty  of 'B.O.' — body  odor.  But  it's  so 
easy  to  offend — and  not  know  it!  Pores  are 

continually  giving  off  odor-causing  waste — 


a>  much  as  a  quart  daily.  Our  senses  become 

deadened  to  an  ever-present  odor.  We  don't 
notice  '!{.().'  in  ourselves — only  in  other-. 

"1  et  no  one  need  ever  offend.  Just  wash 
and    hat  he    with    Lifebuoy.    You'll    feel 
gloriously    clean — SO    fresh — so    safe.     For 
Lifebuoy  deep-cleanses  pores — end.-,  all  tr 
of  B.O."'  " 

H  ant  a  good  complexion? 

Regular  cleansing  with  Lifebuoy  is  the  best 
of  beauty  treatments.  Its  gmtle.  yet  search- 
ing lather  frees  tiny  pores  of  clogged  im- 
purities— brings  fresh,  healthy  radiance  to 
dull,  sallow  skin-.  Its  pleasant,  extra-dean 
scent  -  that  vanishes  as  you  Hum — tells  you 
Lifebuoy  purifies.  Adopt  Lifebuoy  today. 
LEVER  BROTHERS  0O.  Cambridft,  M 


Good  Neics! 

EBUOY 


Shaving   Creani 


Its   new,    soothing    lather 

protects    *«  tender    spots" 

— gives  mo-*!  comfortable 

have  ever .At  all  druggists' 


Lifebuoy 

HEALTH      SOAP         ' 

•  stops  body  odor- 


When  tou  irrl'e  to  »dTerti<w  ple»?e  mention  rnOTOn.AT  MAGAZINE. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 


[  CONTINUED  IROM  PACE   1  2 


•     LILIOM — Fox.— A    fi'v-    picture    mark-;    the 
screen  debut  of  a  -irikin«  young  enn 

.  Rose  Hubart.     Charles  Farrell  is  an  en 
I.ihom,  but  he  never  seems  quite  at  home  without 
his  Janet.     (Nov.) 

LION  AND  THE  LAMB,  THE  -Columbia.— A 
gangster  story  supposed  to  be  good  clean  fun.  It's 
clean,  anyway.    Miriam  Seegar,  Carmel  Myers  and 

Walter  Byron  arc  the  principals.     (Jan.) 

LITTLE  ACCIDENT,  THE— Universal.— The 
Stage  play  was  funny  and  a  hit,  and  so  is  the  talkie. 
Dotlglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  has  a  grand  part.  Anita 
Page  plays  feminine  lead.    (Sept.) 

LITTLE  CAESAR— First  National*— Don't  decide 
you're  fed  up  on  underworld  movies  before  you've 
seen  this  one.  It's  worth  it.  thanks  to  brilliant  work 
by  Edward  G.  Robinson  and  Doug,  Jr.     (Dec.) 

LONE  RIDER,  THE— Columbia.— Slow-moving. 
Western.  Best  work  done  by  Buck  Jones'  horse, 
Silver.   (Sep!.) 

LONESOME  TRAIL,  THE— Syndicate  Pictures. 
—  Plenty  of  action  in  this  Western.  Charles  Delaney 
is  the  hero  and  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  the  rancher's 
daughter.     Kids  will  love  it.     (Nov.) 

LOOSE  ENDS -British  International.  — The 
British  have  a  go  at  a  problem  drama.  Weak  and 
wordy.      (Jan.) 

LOTTERY  BRIDE,  THE— United  Artists.— The 
thrill  of  this  one  is  Jeanette  MacDonald.  who  goes  in 
for  histrionics  in  a  big  way.  And  the  music  is  grand. 
(Oct.) 

LOVE  AMONG  THE  MILLIONAIRES— Para- 
mount.— Clara  Bow  gets  much  too  cute  in  this  luke- 
warm musical  comedy.     (Sept.) 

LOVE  IN  THE  RING— Terra  Productions— Max 
Schmeling's  made-in-Germany  movie,  before  he  won 
the  title.    As  an  actor,  he's  a  good  fighter.     (Oct.) 

LOVE  IN  THE  ROUGH— M-G-M.— Golf,  ro- 
mance, slap-stick  and  music.  You'll  like  it  if  you 
don't  take  it  too  seriously.     (Oct.) 

LOVE  RACKET,  THE— First  National.— The  de- 
pressing spectacle  of  pretty  Dorothy  Mackaill  buried 
alive  under  a  heavy  dramatic  role.     (Oct.) 

LOVE   TRADER,   THE— Tiffany   Productions.— 

I-eatrice  Joy,    blonde   and    beautiful,    in   a   seductive 
Hawaiian  locale.     See  it  for  Leatrice.     (Dec.) 

•  MADAM  SATAN— M-G-M.— Another  lavish 
DeMille  spectacle.  A  dull  wife  acquires  a  French 
accent  and  risque  clothes  to  win  back  her  husband. 
You'll  enjoy  Kay  Johnson  and  Reginald  Denny.  (Oct.) 

MAN  FROM  WYOMING,  THE— Paramount- 
Gary  Cooper  and  June  Collyer,  both  splendid  in  a  war 
picture  with  a  Western  title.     (A  ug.) 

•  MANSLAUGHTER— Paramount.— The  si- 
lent version  was  great  in  its  day,  but  the  talkie 
is  a  boost  for  vocalized  films.  Fine  emotional  drama 
played  by  Fredric  March  and  Claudette  Colbert. 
(Sept.) 

MAN  TO  MAN — Warners. — (Reviewed  under  the 
title  "Barber  John's  Boy.")  A  father  returns  to  lace 
his  son  after  eighteen  years  in  prison.  Grant  Mitchell 
and  Phillips  Holmes  are  good,  but  the  picture  isn't 
always  convincing.     (Dec.) 

MAN  TROUBLE— Fox— Underworld  stuff,  but 
not  too  depressing.  Milton  Sills  sensational  as  a 
gangster  and  Dorothy  Mackaill  plavs  appcalingly. 
{Sept.) 

MAYBE  IT'S  LOVE— Warners.— Maybe  it's  love. 
but  it  isn't  college.  Gridiron  seems  are  good.  Joan 
Bennett  and  James  Hall  provide  the  love.     (Oct.) 

MEDICINE  MAN,  THE— Tiffany  Productions  — 
Pretty  good  hokum,  but  you  lould  afford  to  miss  it. 
(Sept.) 

MEN  OF  THE  NORTH— M-G-M.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Monsieur  Le  Fox.")  Just  another 
story  of  the  Northwest.     (Oct.) 

MIDNIGHT  MYSTERY— Radio  Pictures.— A 
I  radical  joker  starts  something  he  can't  finish.  Betty 
Compson  and  Lowell  Sherman.     (Aug.) 

MIN  AND  BILL— M-G-M.— A  tragic  story  stu- 
pidly gagged  up  with  slapstick.  However,  Marie 
Dressier  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  are  grand  actrcs.-es. 
(Dec.) 

MISBEHAVING  LADIES— First  National.— The 
gags  have  whiskers,  but  you'll  laugh  at  them,  and 
1  ouise  Fazcnda  is  the  reason.     (Nov.) 

V 


•     MOBY  DICK  —  Warners.   —Captain  Ahah's 
vengeful  search  for  the  white  whale,  Mat  y  DU  k, 

is  full  of  thrills.     John  Barrymoie  plays  the  same    role 
as  in  the  silent  "Sea  Beast.''     Don't  miss  this.     (Oct.) 

•     MONTE  CA  RLO  —  Paramount.  —  Witty,  pi- 
quant  operetta  in   the  best  Lubitsch   manner. 
Jeanette  MacDonald  sings  gloriously.     (Oct.) 

•  MOROCCO — Paramount. — The  new  German 
enchantress,  Marlene  Dietrich,  will  stir  up  a 
storm.  And  Gary  Cooper  is  a  gorgeous  Foreign  Le- 
gionnaire.    Hot  stuff,  this.     (Dec.) 

MOTHERS  CRY— First  National.— A  best  seller 
turned  into  a  good  picture,  chiefly  by  the  superb  act- 
ing of  Dorothy   Pi  terson  as  the  mother.     (Dec.) 

MURDER — British  International. — Smart  and 
entertaining  mystery  drama  with  a  travelling  stock 
company  as  the  background  and  a  first-rate  amateur 
detective.      (Jan.) 

NAUGHTY  FLIRT,  THE— First  National.— Alice 
White  as  an  heiress  pursued  by  fortune-hunters. 
Speedy  action,  peppy  dialogue,  gorgeous  clothes.  First- 
rate  entertainment.     (Oct.) 


Producer  Announcements 

of  j\ew  Pictures 

and  Stars 

While  all  good  advertising  is  news, 
we  consider  producer  advertising 
of  particular  interest  to  our  read' 
ers.  With  this  directory  you  easily 
can  locate  each  announcement: 

Columbia  Pictures  .  .  .  Page  109 
Educational  Pictures  .  .  .  Page  107 
First  National  Pictures  . .  Page  1 1 

Fox  Film Page  9 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer..Page  105 
Paramount  Pictures  .  .  .  Page  4 
Warner  Brothers  ....  Page  7 


•  NEW  MOON— M-G-M.— Music  drama  of  the 
first  rate,  with  the  greatest  singing  combina- 
tion on  the  screen.  Metropolitan  Opera's  Lawrence 
Tibbett  and  Grace  Moore.  Color,  drama,  beauty, 
melody  combine  in  a  real  musical  smash.      (Jan.) 

NIGHT  WORK— Pathe  —  Eddie  Quillan  stars  in 
a  nice  comedy  drama  that  goes  a  bit  melodramatic. 
(Aug.) 

NUMBERED  MEN— First  National.— Fair  enter- 
tainment.   From  the  stage  play,  "Jailbreak."    (Aug.) 

•  OFFICE  WIFE,  THE  —  Warners.  —  Dorothy 
Mackaill  is  the  girl  wdio  starts  out  to  vamp  her 
employer,  played  by  Lewis  Stone,  and  ends  by  falling 
in  love  with  him.  A  sophisticated,  but  human  and 
convincing  story.     (Oct.) 

OH,  FOR  A  MAN!— Fox.— A  bright  and  merry 
far  e  about  a  grand  opera  star  who  loves  a  burglar. 
Reginald  Denny's  the  burglar,  and  Jeanette  Mac- 
Donald is  the  song-bird  who  falls  for  him.      (Jan.) 

OH  SAILOR  BEHAVE— Warners.— Lowell  Sher- 
man is  a  swell  comedy  prince.  Otherwise  it's  not  so 
good,  dramatically  or  musically.     (Sept.) 

•      OLD   ENGLISH— Warners— Don't    miss   it. 
George  Arliss  is  perfect.     If  you  liked  "Dis- 
raeli" you'll  rave  about  this  one.     (Sept.) 

•  ONE  HEAVENLY  NIGHT— United  Artists. - 
(Reviewed  under  title  "The  Queen  of  Scan- 
dal.") A  musical,  but  a  hit.  England's  Evelyn  Lave 
is  charming  and  Texas'  John  Boles  in  grand  voice. 
(Dec.) 

ONE  MAD  KISS— Fox.— Don  Jose  Mojica.  young 
operatic  tenor,  and  Mona  Maris  afford  entertainment 
for  a  satisfactory  evening.     (Oct.) 


ONE   NIGHT   AT   SUSIE'S— First   National.— 

One  night  at  Susie?  is  enough  of  this  sort  of  thing. 
Billie  Dove  plays  a  chorine.     (Sept.) 

•     ON    YOUR     BACK— Fox.— Irene     Rich    in 
gorgeous  clothes,  as  a  fashionable  New  York 
modiste,  is  splendid  in  an  interesting  picture.     (Sept.) 

OTHER  TOMORROW,  THE— First  National- 
Gorgeous  Billie  Dove  in  the  usual  love  triangle.  Just 
so-so.     (Aug.) 

•  OUR  BLUSHING  BRIDES— M-G-M.— You 
must  see  Joan  Crawford  in  those  lace  step-ins! 
Swell  box-office  picture,  with  Anita  Page,  Robert 
Montgomery    and    some    more   popular   youngsters. 

(Sept.) 

OUTSI DE  THE  LAW— Universal.— Too  much  di- 
alogue and  too  little  action.     (Oct.) 

•  OUTWARD  BOUND— Warners.— A  ship  sets 
sail.  Eight  characters  are  on  board.  All  are 
dead — bound  for  the  Hereafter.  A  daring  picture, 
finely  produced  and  acted  by  Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr.. 
Helen  Chandler,  Leslie  Howard.    For  adults.    (Nov.) 

•  PAID— M-G-M.— (Reviewed  under  the  Utle 
"W'thin  the  Law") — Just  wait  until  you  see 
Joan  Crawford  in  this  powerful  dramatic  rdle !  The 
story  is  absorbing  and  Joan  is  simply  grand.    (Jan.) 

PARADISE  ISLAND— Tiffany  Productions.— 
This  struggles  along  in  a  South  Sea  Island  setting. 
(Sept.) 

PARDON  MY  GUN— Pathe.— A  Western  comedy 
with  not  a  dull  moment.  Two  champion  juvenile 
trick  riders  and  ropers  outdo  Will  Rogers.     (Sept.) 

PART  TIME  WIFE— Fox— Hokum,  but  enter- 
taining. Eddie  Lowe  makes  grand  work  of  a  funny 
r61e  and  little  Tommy  "Song  o'  My  Heart"  Clifford 
is  a  natural.      (Jan.) 

PASSION  FLOWER— M-G-M— Charles  Bick- 
ford,  Kay  Johnson  and  Kay  Francis  form  the  good 
old  eternal   triangle.      Interesting  people  in  a  good 

film.      (Jan.) 

PAY  OFF,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  a  dress-suit  crook  in  a  smart,  sophisticated 
crook  drama.     It's  a  pip.     (Nov.) 

PINCHOT'S  SOUTH  SEA  CRUISE— Travel- 
Epics. — The  ex-governor  of  Pennsylvania  took  some 
interesting  pictures  of  a  South  Seas  cruise.    No  studio 

faking  in  this  one.      (Jan.) 

PLAYBOY  OF  PARIS— Paramount.— Chevalier 
deserves  better  than  this  light  farce,  which  is  amus- 
ing onlv  in  spots.  And  only  two  songs  from  Maurice! 
(Nov.) 

QUEEN  HIGH — Paramount. — An'  ace  musical 
comedy  with  laughs,  lilting  tunes  and  pretty  girls. 
(Aug.) 

•  RAFFLES— United  Artists.— Ronald  Colman, 
as  an  English  gentleman-thief,  charms  even 
while  he  cops  the  jools.  A  talkie  that  moves,  and 
entertainingly!    (Sept.) 

RAIN  OR  SHINE— Columbia.— Joe  Cook's  talkie 
debut.     A  circus  story'  with  a  punch  finish.     (Oct.) 

RECAPTURED  LOVE— Warners.— A  bright 
little  picture.     You'll  probably  like  it.     (Aug.) 

REMOTE  CONTROL— M-G-M— Billy  Haines 
as  a  radio  announcer.  A  great  chance  for  laughs  and 
they  haven't  been  overlooked.     (Dec.) 

RENEGADES— Fox.— Warner  Baxter  in  an  ex- 
citing story  of  the  Foreign  Legion,  with  Myrna  Loy 
as  the  feminine  spy.      (Ja  n.) 

RENO— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— Ruth  Roland's 
screen  comeback.  She  looks  beautiful  but  her  acting 
is  hopelessly  old-fashioned.  If  there  was  a  story,  it 
got  lost  in  the  making.     (Sept.) 

RIGHT  OF  WAY,  THE— First  National.— Starts 
out  well  but  toward  the  end  you  may  wish  you'd 
stayed  home.     (Aug.) 

RIVER'S  END — Warners. — A  lusty  Curwood  he- 
story,  with  Charles  Bickford  in  a  dual  r61e.     (Dec.) 

ROAD  TO  PARADISE— First  National— Twin 
sisters  are  at  it  again,  complicating  movie  plots.  Lo- 
retta  Young  plays  both  girls,  one  a  crook,  the  other  a 
wealthy  and  noble  young  lady.    (Oct.) 

[  PLEASE  TURK  TO  PAGE  136  ] 


.*« 


Photopi  w  .m  ko  \/i-.i   .       ; 


l5 


Wo, 


omen  with 

Perfect  Teeth 

entrust  them 

only  to  this  gentle 

dentifrice 


T 

JL  here  is  a  very  definite 
reason  why  those  with  perfect  teeth  rely  only  on 
Listerine  Tooth  Paste  for  cleaning. 

This  modern  thrift  dentifrice  contains  re- 
markable cleansing  and  polishing  agents — noted 
for  their  gentle  action.  We  searched  for  years  be- 
fore discovering  them.  They  are  harder  than 
tartar  and  consequently  remove  it.  But  they 
are  softer  than  the  precious  tooth  enamel  and 
are  therefore  harmless  to  it. 

So,  teeth  cleansed  by  Listerine  Tooth  Paste 
retain  their  natural  hardness  and  brilliance. 

If  you  are   not   already 


2£> 

wr   ** 

[  -i       |ff 

1        M      ^ 

L  m 

Buy  gloves  with 

that   $3    it    saves 

There  are  so  many  things 

you  can  buy  with  that  $3 

you  save  by  using  Listerine 
Tooth  Paste  at  25c  instead 
of   dentifrices    in    the    50d 
class."  Gloves  are  merely  a 
suggestion. 

■  /  AJ 

More  than  3,000,000  men  and 
women  have  made  this  comparison. 
Now  they  pronounce  Listerine  Tooth 
Paste  their  favorite.  They  like  the 
quick  but  gentle  way  it  gets  rid  of 
discoloration,  stains,  and  tartar.  They 
like  the  thorough  way  it  cleans.  The 
beautiful  brilliance  it  imparts  to 
teeth. 

And  they  welcome  that  wonderful 


using   this    unusual   tooth        H  y^—jjM 

paste,  get  a  tube  today  and  M        T LlSTT^  R  f\J^ 

try  it.    Compare  it  with  any  TOOTH  P\STTF         I 


tooth  paste  at  any  price.  And 
judge  by  results  alone. 


VVMBE*, 


il 


feeling  of  freshness  it  leaves  in  the 
mouth  —  a  sensation  associated  with 
Listerine  itself. 

Incidentally,  at  25^  the  large  tube, 
Listerine  Tooth  Paste  saves  you  S3 
a  year  over  dentifrices  in  the  50^ 
class,  on  the  basis  of  a  tube  per 
month  per  person.  Lambert  Phar- 
macal  Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo., 
U.  S.  A 


The  makers  of  Listerine  Tooth 
Paste  recommend 

PRO-PHY-LAC-TIC  TOOTH 
BRUSHES 


Listerine  Tooth   Paste.. 25 


a<e  mention  rHOTOPLAT  MAGAZrXE. 


The  screen  players  have  learned  the  value  of  correct  skin  care.    Here,  Virginia  Bruce  demonstrates  some  of  the  steps 

to  guard  the  complexion  against  winter  winds 

Your  Mid-Winter  Complexion 


HAVE  you  ever  shunned  your  mirror  because  you  didn't 
want  to  know  the  things  it  told  you  about  your  com- 
plexion? That  method  is  all  right  to  keep  up  your 
vanity,  but  it  doesn't  solve  anything. 
I  know.  I've  tried  it,  too.  And  it  made  me  think  of  the 
famous  jingle  that  goes  something  like  this: 

"  As  a  beauty  I  am  not  a  star, 
There  are  others  more  handsome  by  far. 
But,  my  face,  I  don't  mind  it 
For  I  keep  behind  it — 
The  people  in  front  get  the  jar! " 

Too  many  of  us  go  around  jarring  "the  people  in  front"  in 
mid-winter.  We're  busy,  and  we  let  cold  winds  do  their  worst. 
When  chapped  lips,  reddened  hands  and  ''sandpaper''  com- 
plexions make  us  too  uncomfortable,  we  begin  our  feeble  at- 
tempts to  undo  the  mischief.  How  much  better  it  would  be  to 
prevent  it! 

Some  of  us  try  to,  but  we  don't  know  the  right  way. 

For  instance,  Phyllis  writes  that  there  isn't  enough  cold 
cream  in  the  world  to  keep  her  skin  from  drying  out  at  the  first 
breath  of  winter.    But  then  she  adds  this  teljtale  paragraph: 

"  I  have  been  dieting  for  a  year, 
leaving  out  butter  and  other  fats 
almost  entirely.  Do  you  think 
that  could  have  anything  to  do 
with  the  excessive  drvness  of  my 
skin?"    (Doll) 


MRS.  II.  M.  says: 


I  can't  use 
i-creams  of  any  kind  on  my  face 
because  the  grease  comes  right 
out  again,  through  the  powder. 
I  wash  with  soap  and  warm  water 
night  and  morning,  but  my  face 
is  chapped  and  sore  from  the  be- 
ginning of  winter  until  the  end. 
Is  there  anything  you  can  suggest 
to  help  me?" 

Joan  Betty's  greatest  problem 
is  that  skating  brings  the  roses  to 
her  cheeks  and  she  doesn't  like 
that  at  all  -they  "spoil  her  pale 
type"!  Essie  complains  because 
no  amount  of  outdoor  exercise 
gives  her  lasting  color,  and  she 
thinks  a  girl  as  healthy  as  she  is 
shouldn't  have  to  get  all  her 
rouge  out  of  boxes  and  jars. 

Marcella  writes:  "I  thought  I 
had  complexion  troubles  last  sum- 
mer, but  that  was  nothing  com- 
pared to  this  winter  roughness.  I 
can't  keep  my  face  smooth  and 

16 


Friendly  Advice  on 

Girls'  Problems 


ARE  you  overweight? 
normalizing 


Send  for  my  booklet  of 
exercises  and  non-fattening 
menus.  Are  you  troubled  with  blackheads  or 
acne?  My  complexion  leaflet  will  help  you.  A 
stamped,  self-addressed  envelope  will  bring  you 
either,  or  both,  or  any  other  advice  on  personal 
problems.  There  is  no  charge  and  your  letters 
will  be  held  in  strict  confidence. 

Address    me    at    PHOTOPLAY,  221    West    57th 
Street,  New  York  City. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


soft  for  more  than  a  day  at  a  time.    And  I  do  try.    Perhaps  my 
method  is  wrong." 

Winter  winds  stimulate  the  circulation  and  are  tonic  to  the 
healthy  skin.  But  excessive  cold  and  the  lowered  humidity  are 
drying  and  sometimes  irritating  to  a  sensitive  complexion.  So 
some  extra  precautionary  measures  must  be  taken. 

THAT  doesn't  necessarily  mean  that  you  have  to  use  a  quan- 
tity of  preparations  or  give  yourself  elaborate,  time-taking 
beauty  treatments. 

Yours  may  be  the  type  of  skin  that  requires  only  the  simplest 
care  to  keep  it  in  splendid  condition,  even  in  the  most  trying 
climate. 

Most  of  us  are  willing  to  stay  up  an  extra  few  minutes  at 
night,  doing  healing  things  to  repair  the  day's  ravages.  We 
have  learned  their  value.  And  even  five  minutes  in  the  morning 
will  give  your  skin  the  protective  care  it  needs. 

The  first  thing  to  look  to,  of  course,  is  your  general  health. 

Exercise,  some  of  it  outdoors  in  the  sunshine,  balanced  by 

enough   rest   and   sleep;   lightweight   clothing   that   is   warm 

enough  to  keep  the  body  from  chilling;  normal  diet;  plenty  of 

fluids — these  have  an  enormous  effect  on  the  condition  of  the 

skin.     Add   to   them  scrupulous 
external  cleanliness. 


IF  you  are  dieting  over-strenu- 
ously  and. like  Phyllis,  are  leaving 
out  greases  and  fats,  your  skin  is 
bound  to  suffer  from  a  lack  of 
lubrication  and  to  become  dry  and 
wrinkled.  All  the  lubricants  can't 
go  from  the  outside  in,  and  no 
amount  of  creaming  will  help  you. 

Neither  is  it  necessary  to  wash 
an  already  chapped  face  with  soap 
and  water  twice  a  day,  as  Mrs. 
H.  M.  does.  She  will  get  better 
results  by  leaving  the  soap  and 
water  cleansing  for  a  just-before- 
bedtime  ritual,  following  it  with 
a  moderately  greasy  cream  or  face 
lotion,  wiping  off  the  surplus  and 
leaving  a  thin  film  to  soften  the 
skin.  In  the  morning  she  can  re- 
move the  remaining  cream  with  a 
mild  astringent  or  tonic  lotion, 
or  plain,  tepid  water,  followed  by 
a  cold  rinse. 

Each  complexion  constitutes  an 
individual  problem.  Your  skin 
may  need  stimulation  to  restore 
its  fineness.  In  your  zeal  to  acquire 
a  lovely  complexion  you  may  be 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  100  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  rot  I         unr,  1931 


17 


Every  Screen  Star  in  Wollywood 

M  Knows  the  Wiagic  Yieauty  Seen 
AKE-U 

In  COLOR  Harmony 


rt  of 

P 


You,  yourself y  may  now  learn  how  to  double 
your  beauty  and  vividly  accent  your  per- 
sonality .  .  .from   Hollywood9 s   Genius 
of  Make-  Up,     Ma  \    I  'actor. 

CT^y )  you  want  new  beauty  .  .  .  new  magnetism  of  personality 

!_>/  .  .  .  new   fascination  .  .  .  quickly,   almost    instantly   .   .  . 

then  listen   to  this  message  from   Hollywood  .  .  .  learn  about 

the  one  make-up  that's  uved  in  all  the  famous  motion  picture 

studios;    by    all   the  glorious  stars  who  have  entranced  you 

with    their   loveliness.  .  .  discover   w  hy   beauty   !••  always 

perfect    in   every  picture   released   from    Hollywood. 

\    ** A  discovery  by  Max- 

Factor,    Hollywood's 

genius  of  make-up,  revo- 
ltitioni/cd  the  use  of 
cosmetics  in  filmland. 
Make-Up  to  really  work 
wonders  in  creating  and 
enhancing  beauty  must 
be  in  color  harmony-  .  .  . 
Cosmetic*  must  blend 
perfectly  in  the  make-up 
ensemble.  Otr'colorsruin 
beauty  .  .  .  often  produce 
unattractive,  grotesque 
effects.  All  this  Max 
Factor  learned  in  his 
work  with  motion  pic- 
ture stars  during  twenty- 
odd  years. 


Then  came  the  revolutionary  idea  .  .  . 
face  powder,  rouge,  lipstick,  eyeshadow 
and  other  make-up  requisites ...  ill  in 
color  harmony  to  blend  with  the  com- 
plexion colorings  of  each  individual 
type,  whatever  the  variation  in  blonde, 
brunette,  browncttc  or  redhead.  And 
each  color  tone  in  each  cosmetic  cre- 
ated to  some  living  type  ...  to  harmonize 
with  such  matchless  beauty  as  typified  by 
Joan  Crawford,  Anita  Page,  Billie  Dove. 

Imagine  what  amazing  new  beauty 
this  discovery  means  to  you  . .  .and  now 
you  may  share  Hollywood's  make-up 
secret,  for  in  Society  Make-Up,  Max 
Factor  has  created  powder,  rouge,  lip- 
stick, eyeshadow  and  other  requisites  for 
every  woman,  for  every  day,  based  on 
his  famous  discovery,  cosmetic  color 
harmony.  A  sensation  in  Hollywood... 
it  will  be  a  beauty  revelation  to  you. 

And  you  may  have  your  own  indi- 
vidual color  harmony  in  Society  Make- 
l.'p  charted  for  you  by  Max  Factor  .  .  . 
who  will  analyze  your  complexion,  and 
tell  you  personally  how  to  make  the 
most  of  your  own  natural  beauty;  how 
to  reveal  the  alluring  charm  and  fasci- 
nation you  have  admired  and  longed  for. 
Accept  this  priceless  beauty  gift  from 
Max  Factor  .  .  .  and  copy  of  this  book, 
"The  New  Art  of  Society  Make-Up." 
Just  mail  the  coupon  below 


JOAN  CRAWFORD 
M-G-.V  Star  efffithin  t ■'.. 

her  correct  color  harmony  lone  in 
lipstick,    crated    by    Max    Fa. 

Hollywood's  .Wake- Up  Genius.  i 


•96%  of  ill  make-up  used  br  Hell*  wood  Screen 
Stan  j  M.H  Fjctox'*. 

(Lu   .1*11  It  I   Ckjr.iir  tf  Cimntnt  Sumti.l  ) 


MAX  FACTOR'S  Society  MAKE-UP 

Cosmetics  of  the  Stars"'.  .  .  HOLLYWOOD 

O 

I        MM~FOR~YdUR~COMr^El<IOS~Al\l'LiSIS 

1 14    Mu  Fxiot— Mm  Factor  Studios.  Hollywood.  Cil«f.    I-I-30 
I  Dcjr  So-:  Send  me  1  cornpLrncniiry  copy  of  your  48-pigc  book.  TV 
\efScnttf  Mskt  (->'.  peuocul  tumefcoon  Jnifyio  jpd  makeup  color  kmnowy 


I  chart.     I  enclose   10  cent*  lo  covet  < 
I  of  postage  and  handling. 


.  amous  Stars  vrnle 
about  makeup  tn  this  book. 


JO7- 

j 


COMTUMOrM 


orxO>    - 


COCOO  ULS 


COLO*  MAJ» 


.  _rf.O— »  M_4 


When  rou  write  to  idrertlsers  pleise  mention  rHOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


i8 


Fhotoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


NATION-WIDE 


Bring  Thrilling  Proof 
of  simple  way  lo  skin 
loveliness  in30-daytest 


Last  September,  612  women...  of  all  ages...  with 
all  types  of  complexions . . .  accepted  an  invitation 
from  15  of  America's  most  distinguished  skin 
specialists. 

Every  day,  for  thirty  consecutive  days,  each 
"subject"  cleansed  the  left  side  of  her  face  with 
her  usual  soap,  cream  or  lotion.  But  on  the  right 
side  of  her  face,  she  used  Woodbury's  Facial 
Soap  exclusively. 

Daily,  each  patient's  complexion  was  examined 
by  the  physician  or  his  assistant.  At  the  end  of 
thirty  days,  all  "case  histories"  were  reviewed 
by  one  of  New  York's  most  eminent  dermatolo- 
gists. His  final  report  gives  dramatic  proof  of 
the  marked  superiority  of  Woodbury's . . .  for 
cleansing  and  beautifying  the  skin. 

In  271  cases  of  faulty  complexion,  the  Woodbury 
side  showed  radiant  improvement  over  the  other. 

Acne  was  benefitted  in  106  cases.  Excessively 
oily  conditions  were  improved  in  115  cases.  Dry, 
scaly  skin  in  81  cases.  Blackhead  conditions,  in 
103  cases. 

For  your  complexion's  sake,  try  Woodbury's.  Con- 


New  York  Group  Making  "Half-Face"  Tesl  —  12  New  York  <::rls  took  lest  under  su- 
pervision of  a  N.  Y.  dermatologist.  Among  these  were  40  •rirls  from  I .  S.  Hubbri  Co. 


CASE  NO.  425.  Hollywood. 
Outdoor  Girl.  Age  22. 
Complexion  dry.  After 
trst.    Woodbury- treated 

side   showed    normal. 


CASE  NO.  217.  Baltimore. 
Clubwoman.  Age  30. 
Oily  skin.  At  the  end 
of  test.  Woodbury  side 
was  greatly  improved. 


"PATCH  TEST"  reveals  gentle  action  of  Wood- 
bury's. A  thick  paste  of  the  soap  applied  to  skin 
for  24   hours   showed   Woodbury's   non-irritating. 


tinue  your  usual  cleansing  method  on 
one  side  of  your  face,  if  you  wish.  But 
every  night  for  a  month  use  warm  water 
and  Woodbury's  on  the  other.  And,  as 
the  days  go  by,  watch  the  Woodbury 
side  improve,  with  clearer  color,  finer 
pores,  smoother  texture. 

Woodbury's  may  be  had  at  all  drug 
stores  and  toilet  goods  counters,  or 
send  coupon  for  generous  sample. 


*, 


Woodbury 

( 


m 


A  STATEMENT  from  W.  J.  HICHMAN,  M.  D. 

(Former  Chairman  ol  American  Society 

of  Dermatologist?) 

"I  have  examined  the  statements  made 
in  this  advertisement.  They  are  correct 
and  in  accord  with  the  reports  of  the 
fifteen  dermatologists  who  conducted 
the  comparative  tests  . . .  These  derma- 
tologists are  known  to  me  as  skin 
specialists  of  the  highest  professional 
reputations,  and  as  outstanding  physi- 
cians in  their  chosen  fields. " 
(Signed)       M^Odt^U^^ <^>- 


MAY  WE  SEND   YOU   DAINTY  SAMPLES? 

JOHN  H.  WOODBURY,  INC. 

802     Alfred  Street,    Cincinnati,   Ohio.  If  you  live  in 

Canada,  address  John  H.  Woodbury,  Ltd.,  Perth,  Onl. 

Enclosed  6nd  10c'  for  trial  cake  of  Woodbury's  Facial 

Soap  and  generous  samples  of  two  Woodbury's  Creams 

and  Face  Powder.     1  would  like  counsel  on  conditions 

checked  below : 

Oily  skin  □  Flabby  skin    D  Sallow  skin  □ 

Dry  skin   n  Coarse  pores  Q  Pimples         Q 

Wrinkles  Q  Blackheads     Q 


Address- 


Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


Loretta  Young,  real  name 
Gretchen,  horn  in  Salt  Lake 
Citv.    and    is   just    eighteen. 

S  feet,  J }  2  inches  tall; 
weighs  100,  has  light  brown 

hair  and  blue  eyes 


YOUTH  and  happiness  incarnate — one  or  National's 

particular  prides  and  joys — the  little  woman  who  meets 
Grant  Withers  at  the  garden  gate  when  he  comes  home  all  hot 
and  bothered  from  the  studio — that's  lovely  little  Loretta  Young' 


t 


■I 


Grace  Moore  was  born  in 
Tennessse.  She  has  blonde 
hair  and  blue  eyes.  Her  first 
stage  hit  was  scored  in  "The 
Music  Box  Revue."  She  is 
unmarried 


A  BLONDE  meteor — that's  Grace  Moore.  From  singing  in 
a  choir  in  a  Tennessee  town  to  the  New  York  musical  comedy 
stage  as  her  course,  she  rose  to  the  heights  of  the  Metropolitan 
Opera.    Now  her  gorgeous  voice  is  heard  in  M-G'M  pictures 


\ 


f  I  ^HERE'S  a  new  sparkle  to  this  familiar  jewel  of  a  girl.    Now 

-*-    that  Janet  Gaynor's  busy  on  the  Fox  lot  again,  she's  happier 

than  she's  been  in  a  long  time.    And  why  not?    She  has  one  of  the 

greatest  parts  of  her  career  in  "The  Man  Who  Came  Back"! 


Janet  Gamer  was  born  tn 
Philadelphia,  Oct  6. 1906.  She 
is  5  feet  tall  weighs  96,  has 
auburn  hair,  brown  rjrc».  She 
mamed  Lydell  Peck  m  the  fall 
of  1929 


# 


z* 


m 

I 


% 


Ann  Harding  was  born  at 
Ft.  Sam  Houston,  Tex.  She 
is  5  feet,  2;  weighs  106,  has 
ash  blonde  hair  and  blue  eyes. 
Her  husband  is  Harry  Ban- 
nister, actor 


THE  movies'  quest  for  the  Golden  Girl  ended  when  Ann 
Harding  was  captured  from  the  stage.  A  sensational  success 
since  "Holiday,"  with  a  good  husband,  a  beautiful  little  daughter 
and  a  happy  home  in  the  hills  above  Hollywood — what  a  woman! 


/•iffJk 


i 


■m 


r 


r 


HE'S  come  fast  and  far,  this  young  Phillips  Holmes,  since 
Paramount  signed  him  two  years  ago.  Beginning  his  bnl 
liant  work  opposite  Nancy  Carroll  in  "The  Devil's  Holiday."  Phil 
has  moved  from  hit  to  hit.     In  "Stolen  Heaven"  with  Nancy 


Phil'.sps  Holmes,  wn  of  1 
Holmes,  was  born  ir. 
Rapids,  Mxrh ..  July  22.  1909 
He  has  blond  hair  and  blue 
Phil   is  one  of  tho.-e 
eligible  bachelors 


***■ 


f 


m 


' 


Carole  Lombard  was  born  in 
Ft.  Wayne,  Ind.,  about  23 
years  ago.  She  is  5  feet,  2 
inches  tall;  has  golden  hair 
and  blue  eyes.  In  "Fast  and 
Loose"  and  "Ladies'  Man" 


JANE  PETERS  came  to  Hollywood  in  1925,  seeking  fame  and 
fortune  in  pictures.  Her  path  led  through  Sennett  comedies 
to  bigger  parts  in  features.  Today,  as  Carole  Lombard,  she's 
doing  mighty  well  in  Paramount  talkies,  and  well  on  her  way! 


OWAQD  GREER*wb» 

s  Original  Models 
over  Gossard  Foundations 


Howord  Greer,  formerly  as 
sooaied  with  Pout  Poiret 
and  Captain  Molyneo 
Paru,  stoned  his  own  shop 
in  Hollywood  in  1927  Mr 
Greer  designs  gowns  for 
famous  movie  stors  as  well 
as  the  socially  prominent 
women  of  California  and 
society  celebrities  spending 
their  playtime  at  California 
resorts 


Just  as  the  famous  designer,  Howard  Greer,  creates  his  best  designs  over 
Gossard  foundations,  fashionable  women  appear  at  their  smartest  when 
they  wear  a  Gossard  moulding  foundation  under  their  frocks.  The  photo- 
graph shows  a  Greer  gown  of  pale  blue  crepe  and  one  of  Gossard*s 
"MisSimplicity"  combinations  of  peach  satin  and  lace.  The  diagonal  "cross- 
pull"  of  the  straps  that  burton  in  back,  mould  the  figure  to  fashionable  lines. 

Model  6658 

The  H.W.  Gossard  Co.,  Division  of  Associated  Apparel  Industries,  Int.,  Chicago,  New  York,  Son  Francisco,  Dollas.  Atlanto,  London, Toronto,  Sydney.  Buenos  Aires 


"They  were  mean  to 

say  it .  .  .  but  I  knew 

they  were  right" 

"  I  was  ashamed  of  my  hands,  but  I  had 
hoped  no  one  else  noticed  them.  Then 
I  chanced  to  overhear  that  comment. 
From  the  woman  I  admired  most  in 
our  club,  too. 

'Careless,'  she  had  called  me. 
"Then  I  realized  how  my  red,  rough- 
ened hands  SPOILED  the  effect  I 
wanted  to  make.  But  how  could  I  have 
pretty,  white  hands — with  dishes  to  do 
three  times  a  day? 

A  Frien d's  A dvice 
"It    was  a   little  friend  of   mine,   who 
.  works   in   a    fashionable   beauty   shop, 
who  helped  me  out. 

'We  use  LUX   suds  in  our  mani- 
cure bowls,"  she  told  me — 'because  they 


leave  the  hands  very  soft  and  lovely. 
If  I  were  washing  dishes  I'd  use  Lux 
in  the  dishpan — for  my  hands'  sake!' 
"  I  tried  it,  and  now  my  hands  are 
as  white  and  smooth  as  l>efore  I  was 
married!  I  never  saw  such  a  magical 
improvement.  I'm  proud  of  them 
now,  thanks  to  Lux." 


Wives  Everywhere 

So  many  wives  are  now  using  Lux  in 
the  dishpan!  It  keeps  their  hands 
lovely  as  those  of  the  woman  with 
maids.  .'10.5  famous  beauty  shops  say: 
"  We  cant  tell  the  difference  between 
the  hands  of  the  wife  who  uses  Lux 
in  the  dishpan  and  the  hands  of 
the  woman  with  maids." 


Costs  less  than  \<t  a  day 

So  many  soaps  dry  the  natural  oils  of  the  skin. 
Bland,  gentle  Lux  protects  these  skin  oils. 
That's  why  it  keeps  your  hands  lovely.  Buy 
the  big  package  —  it  does  six  weeks'   dishes! 


Beauty  Treatment  for  Hands . .  Lux  in  the  Dishpan 


, 


Februaryy  1931 


I  h c    Nati 0 n a  1    G  u  i d e 
to     Motion     Pictures 


.  IUM   Him  : 


STRICKEN  by  this  < 
lamity  and  that,  sin 
the  invasion  of  t 


this  ca- 
sinos 
he 

talkies,  the  stage  seems  to 
have  given  itself  up  to  gloomy 
forebodings.  Now  a  new 
shadow  is  descending  upon 
Broadway — or  at  least,  so 
they  think.    Censorship. 

Prank  Gilmore,  President 
of  the  Actors'  Equity  Associa- 
tion, believes  the  danger  so 
imminent  as  to  remark:  **  We 
may  confidently  expect  a  political  censor- 
ship  by  Easter,  engineered  by  religious  and 
law  enforcement  groups." 

Maybe  so,  hut  that's  taking  the  hoys  out 
of  the  trenches  mighty  quick. 


ClOSe-UpS  and 

Long-Shots 


EUROPE    has,    at    last, 
acl 


By 

James  R.   Quirk 


I" 


AYE  my  own  guess  as  to  the  car, 


t hf  rumblings  of  a  guilty  conscience.  \  good  deal  of 
dirt  has  been  shoved  over  the  footlights  the  presenl 
theatrical  season.  Some  of  the  lines  players  are  called 
upon  to  speak  are  enough  to  revolt  any  self-respecting 

man  or  woman. 

Decent  actors  and  actresses  can't  see  how  this  sorl 
of  thing  can  go  on  indefinitely.  Perhaps  they  are 
right. 

But  to  those  standing  on  the  side  lines  any  move- 
ment for  reform — if  indeed  it  really  exists  appears 
to  he  from  within  the  ranks  of  the  performers  them- 
selves. 

If  stage  censorship  should  come  we  shall  know 
where  to  place  the  blame. 

THEATRICAL   producers   are   like  the   Bourbons 
and  the  Romanoffs — they  never  learn,      **  Eight - 
nin"  "  taught  them  nothing. 

Yet  that  play  was  an  outstanding  demonstration 
for  years  that  appeal  to  the  heart  is  the  one  secret 
of  universal  popularity. 

Cheek  up  most  motion  picture  phenomenal  suc- 
cesses and  vou'll  get  the  same  answer. 


knowledged  a  debt  to 

America.  Sayi  the  Sunday 
Erpreu    London): 

"If    one    were    to    write    a 

hi>tory  of  cinematography 
one  would  almost  bave  to  he- 
gin  by  acknowledging  the 
worlds  enormous  debt  of 
laughter  to  America. 

Hollywood's    unfailing 
Si  nam  of  fun  and  high  spirits 
has  kept  the  lamp  of  optimism 
burning  in  Europe. 

"While  German  films  were  steeped  in  men- 
acing  morbidity   and   Russia    wallowed   in 

psychopathic    horrors;    while    Swedish    pro- 
ducers turned  to  Calvinistic  frigidities,  and 
Britain  floundered  in  apologetic  ineptitude, 
America's   inexhaustible  comedy   resou 
kept  the  spirit  of  gaiety  alive  in  our  cinema 

theaters,  until  Europe  decided  to  smile  again." 
That's  more  than  all  the  peace  conferences  1 

ever  been  able  to  accomplish. 

FREDRK '  MAR(  II  has  been  told  to  give  up  cigars. 
Paramount  is  making  him  a  romantic  star.     ( 
smoking  is  not  only  unromantic,  it  is  definitely  offen- 
sive to  the  women. 

Cigarettes  they  approve.    They're  "cute."    Pipes 

they  tolerate.    They're  manly.    Rut  cigars  are  horrors. 

And  any  movie  actor  who  is  repeatedly  seen  with  a 

black  perfecto  between  his  lip.  seriously  impairs 

his  romantic  appeal. 

The  psychologists  who  delve  into  SUcfa  obsCUritM 
ladies'  whims  don't  know  why  cigars  are  antipathetic 
to  the  romantic  mood. 

It  may  he  that  a    dead    <  i_'ar   is   the  least    appealing 
relic  on  any  ash-tray.     Rut  they  do  know  that  women 
hate  cigars  and  dream  no  tender  dreams  about  i 
smokers. 

If  Freddy  March  must  have  his  after-dinner  corona, 
he'll  have  to  smoke  it  where  the  women  used  t<>  sneak 
their  cigarettes — in  the  hathroom. 


Til  E  hereafter  has  been  slightly  tincturing  pictures, 
lately.  "Liliom"  showed  us  how  a  bad  man 
t  ravels,  a  la  spirit  train.  A  few  trains  like  that  in  our 
own  land  might  reduce  the  profits  of  bus  and  aero- 
plane service.  And  the  creepy  "Outward  Bound" 
made  us  look  for  a  gas  leak  in  the  kitchen  range. 

But  this  delving  into  the  more  or  less  occult  can 
hardly  be  called  a  tendency.  Rather,  it  seems,  two 
successful  stage  plays  were  available  and  so  were  pur- 
chased and  used. 

A  picture  like  "Just  Imagine,"  with  its  glimpse  into 
the  future — even  if  a  far-fetched  one — of  our  own 
world,  is  as  good  a  line  for  fantasy  to  follow.  It  gives 
imagination  a  chance  to  escape,  without  too  great  a 
strain  upon  our  credulity. 

Besides,  "Just  Imagine"  made  us  laugh  with  its 
delicious  absurdities.  And  perhaps  that's  the  main 
thing. 

HERE'S  a  gem: 
Fire  broke  out  in  the  projection  room  of  a 
studio    notorious    for    its    red    tape    entanglements. 
Smelling    smoke,    the    studio    manager    rushed    in. 
"Why  isn't  the  studio  engine  here?"  he  demanded. 

"Why,  we  have  put  through  the  proper  requisi- 
tion!" some  one  answered.  "We're  waiting  for  an 
okay." 

Then  the  executive  grabbed  a  phone  and  the  build- 
ing was  saved. 

NEW  YORK  CITY  can  always  be  counted  upon 
to  do  the  right  thing.  It  showered  nearly  as 
much  attention  on  Prof.  Einstein,  world  heavy-weight 
thinker,  as  on  Charles  (Buddy)  Rogers. 

THE  American  Federation  of  Musicians  have  got 
out  their  mops  and  are  trying  to  shove  back  the 
ocean.  Some  140,000  of  them,  under  the  leadership  of 
President  Joseph  N.  Weber,  dug  down  in  their  pockets 
to  put  up  cash  for  the  most  futile  advertising  campaign 
on  record.  In  trying  to  stem  the  tide  of  sound  pictures 
so  far  as  they  relate  to  music,  they  show  an  absence  of 
good  judgment. 

It  is  difficult  to  say  just  what  they  hope  to  achieve. 
Their  advertising  appearing  in  some  national  publica- 
tions is  not  explicit.  It  calls  film  music  "canned," 
and  says,  "Manners  mean  nothing  to  this  monstrous 
offspring  of  modern  industrialism,  as  IT  crowds  Living 
Music  out  of  the  theater  spotlight." 

SOUNDS  sort  of  reminiscent,  doesn't  it?  Much  the 
same  thing  was  said  about  the  phonograph  and, 
more  recently,  the  radio. 

"Though  the  Robot  can  make  no  music,  of  him- 
self," the  Federation's  advertising  further  asserts,  "he 
can  and  does  arrest  the  efforts  of  those  who  can."  Of 
course,  that  is  not  true. 

Studio  orchestras  arc  among  the  finest  in  the  land. 
And  the  best  paid. 

The  American  Federation  of  Musicians  are  wasting 
their  money. 

88 


SOME  of  the  loveliest  music  to  be  heard  on  stage  or 
screen  in  New  York  today  isn't  in  a  big  flashing 
operetta  hit,  or  musical  comedy  wow. 

It's  in  a  German-language  musical  picture  called 
"Zwei  Herzen  im  3—4  Takt."  In  English,  that's 
"Two  Hearts  in  Waltz  Time." 

In  a  small  theater  up  a  side  street  that  picture  has 
been  running,  at  this  writing,  for  weeks  to  standing 
room  only.  It  isn't  the  picture — which  is  pretty  bad. 
It's  the  songs  that  have  drawn  thousands  to  that  out 
of  the  way  theater. 

Music  has  a  place  on  the  screen,  and  a  big  place. 
The  only  trick  is  to  use  it  intelligently.  To  deprive 
the  screen  of  music,  one  of  its  greatest  gifts,  is  simply 
to  deprive  chocolate  ice  cream  of  chocolate. 

LOS  ANGELES  and  Hollywood  have  been  accused 
of  a  lot  of  low  down  things  and  many  of  the 
accusations  are  true,  but  the  limit  has  been  reached. 
The  flaming  cross  should  be  re-lit  and  the  klan  should 
ride.  Out  there  they  have  started  a  school  for  after  din- 
ner speakers  and  toast-masters.  Help.  Murder.  Police. 

A  BLOW  to  Garbo  fans  who  wear  their  hair  like 
hers:  She  never  wears  it  Garbo-fashion  except 
on  the  screen. 

EVEN  California's  vaunted  sunshine  is  no  antidote 
for  hard  work  combined  with  a  too  strict  reducing 
diet.  One  famous  feminine  star  whose  bathroom  scale 
today  registers  109  pounds,  weighed  147  pounds  when 
she  first  came  to  Hollywood.  Sanitaria  records  show 
the  dangers  of  such  extreme  reduction. 

But  martyrdom  like  that  seems  to  be  expected  of 
public  favorites. 

SOME  of  the  big  picture  houses  that  were  wont  to 
think  no  film  could  be  shown  without  the  accom- 
paniment of  "stage  presentations"  have  turned 
thumbs  down  on  the  latter. 

In  these  places,  you  no  longer  need  to  have  your 
time  wasted  by  being  forced  to  see  and  hear  performers 
who  only  too  often  appeared  to  be  learning  their 
dancing  or  singing  trade  at  the  expense  of  an  audi- 
ence's patience. 

And  in  many  of  the  smaller  theaters  that  particular 
kind  of  "organ  recital,"  which  consisted  in  having  the 
patrons  chant  jazz  lines  thrown  on  the  screen,  is  being 
banished.    And  the  public  is  happier  because  of  that. 

MANAGERS  pursuing  these  policies  realize  that 
the  picture's  the  thing  that  brings  the  crowds — 
not  trappings  and  trimmings.  But  reform  in  some 
quarters  is  being  over-done.  Double  features,  cheap 
matinees  and  other  artificial  stimuli  to  theater  attend- 
ance are  not  fair  to  motion  pictures  nor,  in  the  long 
run,  to  motion  picture  patrons. 

Such  a  program  means,  only  too  often,  mediocre 
films  and  the  omission  of  the  generally  enjoyable 
shorts  and  comics.  An  habitual  bargain  policy  never 
stabilized  any  worth  while  business. 


Hairdressers/    Get  Ready! 


Big  news!  Again 
Clara  Bow  mak' 
headlines.  But,  this 
time,  it's  just  a  sen- 
sational new  boh, 
tucked  behind  her 
ears,  with  rows  of 
sculptured  curls  at 
the  back 


The  brown  eyes  have 
a  mischievous  glint 
that  belies  the  digni- 
fied backward  sweep 
of  the  orange-red 
locks.  Soft  waves 
encircle  her  head  and 
end  in  these  graceful 
ringlets 


Even  bigger  news!  Colleen  Moore  is 
doing  away  with  her  Dutch  cut.  Through 
a  series  of  pictures  in  December  Photo- 
play she  asked  her  fans  to  decide  on  a 
new  one.    This  "windblown"  won 


It's  a  hair-raising  month!  Garbo  tosses 
out  the  ends  of  her  famous  long  bob  and 
curls  them  in  a  misty  halo.  This  is  how 
she'll  look  in  "Inspiration."  Watch  the 
feminine  half  of  the  world  go  for  this! 


Mary  Brian's  new 
haircut  is  the  last 
word  in  stylish 
bobs,  from  the  flat, 
soft  waves  across 
the  top  to  that 
ducky  little  curled 
tendril  at  the  ear 


The  back  of  Mary's 
hair  is  as  pretty  a 
picture  as  you'll 
find.  Lovely,  smooth 
waves  that  end  in 
two  rows  of  cun- 
ning curls  placed 
low  on  the  neck 


■ 


Goofy  Genius 

in  Hollywood 


They've  handed  the  movies 
many  a  laugh  —  but  also 
many    a    revolutionary    idea 


By 

James  M.    Kahn 


DON'T  spoof  at  goofs.  It's 
dangerous.  Or  at  least 
unwise,  and  often  embar- 
rassing, for  history  abounds 
with  stories  of  men  dubbed" goo fy-' 
by  skeptical  and  misunderstanding 
critics  who  were  later  hailed  as 
geniuses. 

Inside  the  shell  of  many  a  queer 
looking  filbert  has  been  found  the 
meaty  kernel  of  an  idea  that 
changed  the  course  of  the  world. 
The  classic  horrible  example  of 
a  goofy  genius  who  came  back  to 
torment  his  tormentors  is  Robert 
Fulton,  the  inventor  of  the  steam- 
boat. To  his  first  audience  he  was 
an  out  and  out  nut,  mad  as  a  March 
hare,  but  at  this  late  date  it  looks 
as  though  the  steamboat  has  come 
to  stay,  and  rowing  to  Europe  is 
no  longer  fashionable. 

There  have  been  others.    Onlv 


SOME  FAMOUS  GOOFS 

Put  away  that  strait-jacket,  lay  down 
your  butterfly  net,  stop  laughing  and  take 
another  look,  for  the  goof  you've  been 
chasing  might  be  a  genius,  such  as — 

Robert  Fulton,  who  invented  the  steam- 
boat; and 

Columbus,  who  only  discovered 
America;  and 

Von  Sternberg,  who  introduced  a  new 
realism  to  the  screen  and  made  'em  like 
it;  and 

Bob  Florey,  who  used  cigar  boxes  for 
backgrounds,  and  gets  $1,000  a  week 
today;  and 

D.  W.  Griffith,  who  built  settings  in 
miniature;  and 

E.  A.  Lauste,  who  stuck  to  his  idea  of 
talking  pictures. 


last  summer  a  Mr.  G.  A.  I.  M. 
Skyes  bobbed  up  with  a  rain-mak- 
ing machine.  He  was  so  eloquent 
about  it  that  the  officials  of  the 
Westchester  Racing  Association 
hired  him  to  keep  the  rain  away 
from  Belmont  Park  in  New  York 
at  SI, 000  a  day. 

Mr.  Skyes  moved  into  Belmont 
Park  with  his  mysterious  machine 
and  set  up  shop  at  keeping  the  rain 
away.  It  didn't  rain  for  three 
days  after  he  arrived.  On  the 
fourth  day  it  rained. 

No,  that's  wrong.    It  poured. 

The  skeptical  thousands  who 
had  anticipated  just  such  a  thing 
haw-hawed  "I  told  you  soV  in 
between  fits  of  hysterics  and  called 
Mr.  Skyes  a  nut.  The  officials  of 
the  Westchester  Racing  Associa- 
tion called  Mr.  Skyes  something 
else  and  fired  him.  Thethousands 


It's  a  wise  child  that  knows  its  own  father,  and  poor  little  Sound,  still  in  its  crib,  will  have  a  tough 
time  picking  his  real  papa  out  of  all  those  who  claim  to  be 


SO 


. MTT.ON 

I'^ul   [z-rkT  [FuFj 
[com! 

[theme] 


H 


- 


The  "Plot  Robot,"  or  mechanical  scenario 
writer.  Just  pull  the  handle  and  up  pops  the 
Devil,  or  the  hero,  or  the  heroine.  It's  all 
very  simple,  with  the  accent  on  the  simple 


<V\i :  K[ 


5 


si> 


are   still    laughing,    and,    one    presumes,    Mr.    Skycs    is    still 
fired. 

But  look  out!    Like  many  a  goof  before  him  he  may  Btage  a 
come-back,  this  time  as  a  genius.     You  never  can  tell. 

Hollywood,  of  course,  has  had  its  full  share  of  nuts.  Many 
producers  will  readily  admit 
more  than  its  share.  After 
all.  the  movies  are  something 
of  a  National  Obsession. 
They're  on — and  in — every- 
one's mind.  If  Lil  doesn't 
Want  to  act  in  them.  Cousin 
Fred  wants  to  direct  them, 
or  Uncle  Casper  wants  to 
reform  them — or  something. 

Hollywood  has  had  to  lis- 
ten to  nuts  who  have  wanted 
to  improve  them.  Some  of 
these  "'nuts"  have  turned 
out  to  be  geniuses,  authors 
of  innovations  that  have 
revolutionized  the  industry, 
that  have  changed  the  mov- 
ies from  a  glorified  series  of 
Btereopticon  slides  to  "the 
great  common  denominator 
of  the  arts." 

On  the  other  hand  some 
have  been  just  nuts,  crazy 
as  o  fy  as  tumble 

bugs.  But  how  to  distinguish 
between  them?  Yeh,  howl 
You'd  have  to  be  a  goofy 
genius  yourself. 

The  West  Coast  movie 
colony  is  still  chuckling  over 
a  couple  of  lads  who  have 
been  offering  a  " Tlot  Robot,-' 
or  mechanical  scenario 
writer.  Just  pull  the  handle 
and  out  pops  a  sure-fire  hit, 
duly  embellished  with  all 
the  necessary  details,  hero, 


Fre-sound  experimenters  tried  to  capture  the  illusion  of 
the  spoken  word  by  printing  it  on  the  film,  along  with  the 
action,  in  balloons,  such  as  cartoonists  use.  This  evoked 
the  facetious  question,  "When  does  the  balloon  go  up?" 


heroine,  villain,  complications,  and.  of  (  ourse,  the  happy  ending. 
The  movie  moguls  aren't  interested  in  it.  nor  even  in  the 
suggestions  of  the  "inventor.-."   that  it  would  prove  a  great 
publicity  medium. 

"Why,  just  think,"  they've  explained,  "think  of  the  exploita- 
tion value  of  advertising  a  movie  written  by  a  machine." 

'   Yeah?"   the  magnates   have   come   back,    "we   think    the 
public  thinks  too  many  have  been  written  by  machine  already." 
Yet,  daffy  as  the  idea  sounds  and  scorned  as  it  is.  a  machine 

very  similar  to  the  one  now 
offered  was  used  by  a 
woman  scenarist  <>n  the 
Btaff  of  David  Horsely,  an 
independent  producer,  61- 
1  years  a. 


Col. MR  and  sound,  two 
great    innovations   that 
distinguish    modern    day 
movies  from  their  pred( 
sors,  were  long  sought  after 
before  their  realization 
achieved.  It  doesn't  require 
a    very    fanciful    mind    to 
imagine  the  goofy  arrange- 
ments some  of  these  early 
inventions"  were. 
One    fellow    from    Ohio, 
years    ago,    drove    a    huge 
truck  up  to  the  old  Tssanay 
studio  in  Chicago,  and  said 
he  had  a  new  idea  in 
photography.  He  was  given 
permission  to  set  up  his  ma- 
chine and  demonstrate  it. 
He  took  about  a  week  to 
assemble  all  of  his  tri: 
his   lights,    tin    boxes,    and 
heaven  knows  what.    When 
it  was  ready  it  was  twice  the 
if  a  piano  packing  case. 
On  the  day  of  the  gre. 
[please  turn  to  r.v-:  12"] 

SI 


Ruth  Harriet  Louise 


HERE  comes  the  bride— but  she  isn't  nearly 
as  stern-looking  right  now  as  she  seems  in 
this  picture!  Dorothy  Sebastian  and  Bill  Boyd, 
Pathe's  blond  he-man  star,  became  one  not  long 
ago,  and  the  picture  world's  best  wishes  go  to 
them.     Bill  was  formerly  married  to  Elinor  Faire 


82 


Meet 
Mrs.  Boyd! 


tiftoi 


*\ 


4. 


"*      »Mr.  Lowell  Sherman 

^      Koing  whimsical  with 

Miss  Mary  Astor.    A 

scene  from  his  latest, 

"The  RoyaJ  Bed" 


oes  Wickedness  Pay: 


? 


A  PLUMP  society  matron 
from  Philadelphia,  mar- 
ried to  three  millions 
and  a  case  of  dyspepsia, 
came  to  Hollywood  a  short  time 
ago  simply  perishing  to  meet — 
the  words  are  hers — Lowell 
Sherman. 

Through  a  friend  of  a  friend  of 
her  grandmother's  aunt,  or  some- 
one of  that  sort,  she  finally  man- 
aged to  wedge  her  way  into  the 

studio.  The  harassed  publicity  man  entrusted  with  the  intro- 
duction ventured  to  give  her  what  he  believed  was  a  word  of 
assurance. 

"  What  would  you  do,"  he  asked.  "  if  I  told  you  Mr.  Sherman 
is  not  at  all  like  the  -er — naughty  characters  he  plays?  " 

Replied  the  lady,  instantly:  "I'd  get  on  the  first  train  and 
go  back  to  Philadelphia!'' 

Somehow  or  other  the  notion  has  got  abroad  that  actors  are 
never  the  same  on  the  screen  as  they  are  off.  It  may  be  good 
newspaper  copy  to  say  that  all  the  "heavies"  are  mild  lam'1 
home,  all  the  juveniles  grandfathers,  all  the  gorgeous  leading 
women  plain  and  simple  schoolgirls,  but  whether  it  is  true  is 
something  else  again.  Several  interviewers  have  said  tenderly 
that  Lowell  Sherman  is  nothing  like  the  Lowell  we  see  in  black- 
and-white  on  celluloid. 

They  haven't  exactly  said  he  was  a  simple  country  lad  in  blue 
jeans  and  bare  feet,  but  that  is  the  general  impression.  This 
means  only  one  thing — because  it  amused  him  to  do  so,  he 
fooled  'em!  The  only  way  Lowell  Sherman  could  stay  closer  to 
his  screen  sophistication  would  be  for  him  to  carry  the  screen 
around  with  him. 

His  lather  was  a  theatrical  producer.     His  mother  was  an 
actress.     His  grandmother,  Kate  Gray,  was  leading  lady  for 
Junius  Booth,  the  father  of  the  world-famed  Edwin.     About 
Lowell  Sherman  you  get  the  feeling 
that,  if  he  were  digging  ditches,  an 
orchestra    would    suddenly    burst 
into  the  overture  and  a  curtain  rise 


44  Ah  yes — in  bo  re  some 
Americano  money!"  drawls 
Mr.  Lowell  Sherman, 
reaching   for   his   monocle 


By    Jack    J  a  ui  /  s  o  ;/ 


He   may   be   merely  ordering 

rye  bread  and  sliced  tongue  at 
the  Embassy  Club  one  "f  his 
especial  Joys  i-  t<>  manufacture 
his  own  sandwiches  at  tal 
but  every  gesture  of  his  hands. 
every  expression  of  his  face 
might  be  designed  f'T  an  ui 
audience  out  beyond  the  foot- 
lights. 

Rye  bread  and  c<>ld  tongue, 
paradoxically.  Income  a  s<>rt  of 
sin     something    wicked,    a    bit    daring,    wholly    soph: 
When  he  is  directing  ether  actors  in  a  scene,  it  can  hardly  be 
told  whether  the  cameras  are  pointing  at  them  or  at  him.     Ib- 
crosses  his  legs,  in  beautifully  tailored  and  meticuloudy  en  I 
trousers,  and  his  patent  leather  toe  points  as  gracefully  U 
adagio  dancer's.      He  discusses  camera-angles  with   his  chit f 
cinematographcr,  and  his  words  are  pitched  just  right  for  the 
microphones.     Sitting  on  his  canvas  director's  chair,  he  turns 
the  pages  of  his  script,  unconsciously,  with  his  up-stage  hand. 

HI    dumps  boredly,  pointing  here  and  there  with  his  fingers 
as  if  he  were  so  utterly  exhausted  that  it  is  more  than  h< 
do  to  lift  his  hands  from  his  lap.  His  eyebrows  arch  as  if  he  had 
glued  them  up  in  an  effort  to  keep  his  eves  open.     He  slur- 
sentences,  so  that  in  giving  a  stage  direction  such  as.  say,  ' 
come  in  here."  it  sounds  like  a  tired  whisper — "Ycmnr."'     In 
reality  he  is  merclv  saving  his  energy. 

The  rehearsal  over,  the  camera  motors  humming,  anyone  who 
watches  closely  will  see  the  lax  fingers  tighten,  and  quiver 
slightly.  His  words,  though  still  effortless,  come  now  with  a 
snap.  His  eyebrows  drop  into  a  frown  of  intense  concentration; 
his  black  eyes  sparkle.  Then,  the  scene  done,  once  more  he 
slumps  laziiy  on  his  chair,  and  looks  four-fifths  dead  and  one- 
fifth  dying  of  boredom.    "  Art."  it  has  been  aptly  said,  "is  the 

concealment  of  art." 

A  di 
film   appearance   in    "'Way    i 

[  PLEASE  TUK- 

ss 


even 


HOLLYWOOD  is  truly  a  Bagdad 
of  old. 
Somewhere  in  its  shady  can- 
yons and  sunny  side  streets, 
the  magic  of  Aladdin's  lamp  must  linger. 
Startling  and  unbelievable  transforma- 
tions take  place  over  night.  People  sud- 
denly develop  entirely  new  personalities  with  new  thoughts, 
new  ideas,  new  hopes. 

Pert  little  flappers  will  arrive  in  town  and  go  capering  about 
kicking  up  their  heels  like  frisky  lambs.  Hey!  hey!  Suddenly, 
without  a  word  of  warning,  they  emerge  dignified,  domesticated 
and  serious-minded  young  women  with  a  mission  in  life. 

Comedians,  during  luncheon,  will  become  bosom  heaving 
heavies,  and  heavies  will  and  do  become  nuisances.  Bathing 
beauties  become  titled  aristocrats  and  aristocrats  become — well, 
why  go  into  it?  One  never  knows  whether  his  own  Aunt  Em 
will,  on  the  morrow,  be  making  apple  butter  or  whoopee. 

But  one  of  the  greatest  and  strangest  transformations  that 
Hollywood  has  ever  seen  has  come  to  a  group  of  seven  of  Holly- 
wood's finest  young  men.  Even  picture  people  who  have  be- 
come more  or  less  used  to  the  Dr.  Jckyll  and  Mr.  Hyde  act,  look 
at  one  another  and  wonder. 

Just  a  little  over  a  year  ago,  seven  young  men  from  eighteen 
to  twenty  years  of  age,  without  a  care  or  a  thought  beyond  the 
good  times  of  the  next  day,  answered  a  call  to  arms  and  marched 
blithely  away  to  location  to  make  a  picture.  The  boys  of  "All 
Quiet  on  the  Western  Front"  had  begun  a  lot  of  fun,  they 
decided. 

Six  months  later,  a  little  band  of  weary  youths  trudged  back 
to  Hollywood.  There  were  no  boyish  pranks,  no  wise-cracking 
among  them  now.  Instead,  there  was  a  quietness,  a  calmness 
that  was  frightening  to  behold.  Their  eyes  spoke  of  things 
their  lips  didn't — or  couldn't.  Somewhere,  back  there  in  a  shell 
hole,  or  a  bullet  torn  trench,  each  of  those  seven  boys  left  behind 
him  the  boy  who  had  marched  so  gaily  away. 

"It  will  wear  off,"  Hollywood  murmured.  "It's  bound  to 
affect  them  this  way.    It  will  pass." 

It  hasn't. 

A  year  has  gone  by  and  still  that  little  group  of  boys  cling 
together  in  a  bond  of  strange  companionship.  Different.  Set 
apart  by  one  great  experience.     They  are  now,  and  one  feels 

34 


The  seven  boys  of  "All  Quiet  on  the 
Western  Front"  who  grew  up  too  fast  in 
the  film  trenches.  Left  to  right,  Scott 
Kolk,  Russell  Gleason,  Billy  Bake  well, 
Lew  Ayres,  Owen  Davis,  Jr.,  Walter 
Brown  Rogers  and  Ben  Alexander 


they  always  will  be,  the  same  sobered 
youths  who  trudged  home  in  the  mud- 
stained  uniforms  of  German  soldiers. 
No,  it  hasn't  passed. 

Young  Ben  Alexander,  the  Kcmmcrich 

of  the  picture,  wasn't  quite  eighteen 

when  the  picture  began.     Ben  was  a 

Penrodish  sort  of  lad  who  still  enjoyed  the  sports  of  a  Y.  M.  C. 

A.  camp  in  the  hills. 

"I'd  just  started  at  the  University  of  California,"  Ben  said, 
"when  they  asked  me  to  do  the  part.  I  hesitated  a  long  time. 
Finally  I  gave  up  college  to  do  it.  Am  I  glad?  Why,  I  learned 
more  in  those  six  months  than  any  ten  years  of  college  could 
have  given  me.  It's — it's  just  too  big  to  talk  about." 
They  all  say  that.  It  leaves  them  groping  for  words. 
"Occasionally  we'd  be  near  enough  to  come  home  nights,"  he 
said.  "It  was  the  first  time  mother  hadn't  been  with  me  on  a 
set  and  she'd  ask  me  what  we'd  done  that  day.  I  couldn't  tell 
her.  Mother  couldn't  understand,  but  it  was  so  big,  there  was 
so  much,  I  just  couldn't  talk  about  it. 

"  Finally  the  opening  night  came.  I  hadn't  seen  the  preview 
and  mother  and  I  just  sat  there  stunned.  That  night  mother 
came  into  my  room.  She  was  crying  a  little,  I  guess.  '  I  under- 
stand now,  Ben,'  she  said.  'I  know  why  you  couldn't  tell  me.' 
It  certainly  has  made  a  difference  in  me.  Life  just  up  and 
smacked  us  in  the  face." 

Billy  Bakewell  was  Albert  Kropp.  "  From  the  very  first,  once 
we  got  out  there  on  location,  we  never  felt  we  were  making  a 
picture,"  Billy  said.  "We  believed  it  thoroughly.  We  were 
seven  German  fellows  huddled  together  in  a  trench,  fighting  the 
same  fight,  living  together  week  after  week,  month  after 
month. 

"V\  7"E  got  so  steamed  up  over  it  sometimes  we — we — I  don't 
W  know  how  to  tell  you,"  he  finished  lamely.  "We'd  stand 
around  before  a  bombardment,  waiting,  nervous  and  excited. 
Our  hands  often  shook  until  we  could  scarcely  light  our  ciga- 
rettes. Our  hearts  raced.  Then  it  would  come.  Bombs, 
dynamite,  shells  whined  and  we  were  in  the  midst  of  it.  Fight- 
ing, sweating  together.  We  were  often  frightened.  We  felt 
exactly  as  those  boys  must  have  felt. 

"And  so  many  little  things  kept  cropping  up  all  through  the 


The  Western  Front 


55 


What  the  grimness  and 
terror  of  "All  Quiet"  did 
to  seven  cocky,  wise- 
cracking Hollywood  kids 
who  marched  away  to 
the    talkie    trenches 

By   Sara    Ma m / It o // 


picture.  When  we  were  making  the  schoolroom  scene,  remem- 
ber the  German  soldiers  who  marched  outside  our  window? 
One  of  those  boys  was  a  peach  of  a  fellow.  His  name  was 
irge.  One  day  we  missed  him.  Someone  told  us  he'd  been 
injured  going  home  the  night  before  and  we  didn't  sec  him 
again.  Three  months  later  we  were  making  the  hospital  scene. 
•  I  won't  be  a  cripple,"  I  screamed.    'I'll  kill  myself  first!' 

'•  "  Here  buddy,  you're  all  right,'  someone  said,  handing  me  a 
mirror.  'Take  a  look  at  yourself.'  Then  I  took  the  mirror  and 
slanted  it  downward— remember? — so  I  could  see  my  leg. 
Well,  I  slanted  the  mirror  down  and  then  I  felt  the  flesh  creep 
on  my  spine.  My  mirror  showed  an  amputated  leg.  I  dropped 
the  glass  with  a  crash.  Then  I  saw.  It  was  George.  '  It's  all 
right.  Bill,'  he  said.  'I  heard  you  were  making  this  scene  and 
I  thought  I  might  help  a  little.  I  could  tell  you  how  it  felt, 
maybe.'  I  took  his  hand  and  just  looked  at  him  and  I  —  I  just 
lay  there  and  cried  like  a  baby.     We  both  did. 

IT  was  things  like  that."  he  said  quietly,  ''that  kept  coming 
up  to  hit  a  fellow.     But  I  wouldn't  trade  what  it's  done  to 
me  for  a  million  dollars." 

"  I  used  to  feel  the  weight  of  the  world  rested  on  my  shoulders, 
before  I  went  into  that  picture."  Russell  Gleason  {Midler)  said. 
'  I  was  the  most  serious  minded  person  you  ever  saw.  I 
weighed  every  fact  carefully.  I  learned  differently."  he 
grinned.  "  I  soon  found  out  it  doesn't  make  a  particle  of  differ- 
ence to  the  world  what  I  think  about  it." 

"George  Cukor,  our  dialogue  director,  was  a  wonderful 
fellow.  '  Fascinating  youth,'  he  jeered  at  us.  He  mimicked  our 
ways  and  expressions.  'Such  coy  young  things.  So  itty."  he'd 
say.  He  held  up  a  mirror  of  ourselves  and  each  one  of  us  took 
a  good  long  look.  He  was  right.  We  forgot  fascinating  youth. 
'  It.'  If  we  had  any  left,  Louis  Wolheim,  who  played  Kaiatinsky, 
kidded  the  rest  of  it  out. 

"  '  Pewkes,'  he  called  us.  'Young  pewkes.'  He'd  talk  to  us 
by  the  hour  in  the  trenches.  He  spared  nobody.  Neither  did 
Mr.  Milestone,  our  director.  And  we  learned.  I  spent  my 
twenty-first  birthday  in  a  shell  hole  on  the  movie  battlefield. 
I  lay  there  and  thought  things  over." 

Scott  Kolk  (Leer)  had  been  a  musician.    Scott  was  a  bit  shy 
with  strangers.     He  couldn't  seem  to  get  the  hang  of  fell 
But  he  learned.     He  learned  the  meaning  of  true  companion- 
ship in  those  weary  months.    He  gained  something  and  he  lost 
something.    But  Scott,  too,  found  himself. 

Walter  Brown  Rogers  (Bclim)  had  a  terrific  Barry  more  com- 
plex.   It  was  serious  with  Walter.  [  please  turn'  to  page  129  ] 


The  boy  who  was  made  by  "All  Quiet"  and 
whose  brilliant  work  as  Paul  Baumer  did 
much  to  make  "All  Quiet"  a  great  picture. 
Lew  Ayres,  who  came  to  talkie  prominence 
and  fortune  in  the  film 


86 


A  Story  of  Love  and  Too 


IHe  was  a  cowboy  and  she  appeared  in  his  Western  pic- 
tures— his  leading  woman.  He  lived  at  her  mother's 
boarding  house,  and  he  thought  the  girl  was  the  prettiest  and 
sweetest  thing  he'd  ever  seen.  And  so  it  was  that  Tom  Mix 
fell  head  over  heels  in  love  with  Victoria  Forde.  A  simple  sort 
of  fellow,  he  concentrated,  from  that  day  on,  on  one  thing — ■ 
making  Victoria  happy.  So  they  were  married,  and  Tom 
bought  a  little  house  over  Carlton  way.  He  called  it  his 
"lucky  place."  And  in  that  little  house  Tom  was  utterly  and 
completely  happy. 


2  It  wasn't  very  long  before  a  nursery  was  built  on  to  the 
"lucky  place"  over  on  Carlton.  Little  Thomasina  had 
arrived,  and  Tom  and  Victoria  were  more  than  happy.  There 
was  lots  of  love  and  laughter  in  that  little  house.  Tom  was  off 
to  the  studio  every  day,  and  Victoria  played  housewife  and 
mother.  It  was  the  flush  period  of  the  "horse  opera,"  and 
foremost  of  all  Western  stars  was  Tom  Mix.  His  hard-riding, 
hard-fighting  pictures  sold  like  the  proverbial  hot  cakes,  and 
Tom  grew  more  prosperous.  Fox  looked  with  favor  on  its 
popular  star. 


3  These  were  golden  days  for  Tom  Mix.  Still  a  simple, 
naive  cow-puncher  at  heart,  he  had  everything  he 
wanted.  His  beloved  Victoria,  his  little  daughter,  his  more 
than  comfortable  little  home,  and  his  work  to  do.  What  man 
could  wish  for  more?  After  the  studio  day,  he  asked  nothing 
better  than  a  good  dinner  and  a  romp  with  the  youngster. 
But  Tom's  salary  was  growing,  and  with  it  grew  Victoria's 
ambition.  Soon  the  studio  pay  check  grew  to  the  enormous 
sum  of  S10,000  a  week.  Victoria  wanted  social  position,  a 
bigger  house,  jewels.  Tom  wanted  home,  "  Vicky," — and  the 
baby. 


36 


Much  Money  told  in  Pictures 


4   And  of  course  Victoria  had  her  way.     Could  Tom  refuse 
her  anything?    He  loved  her  so  devouringly  that  all  she 

did  was  right.  From  the  little  "lucky  place  "they  went  to  a 
great  new  house  dozens  of  spectacular  rooms,  swimming 
pool  with  gold-leafed  tiles  almost  bizarre.  She  loved  jewelry. 
lie  loaded  her  down  with  it.  In  the  picture  above,  taken  at 
the  house  warming.  Mrs.  Mix  is  wearing  bracelets  worth  more 
than  (40,000.  Ambition  had  had  its  way.  Hut  something 
had  marred  the  happiness  of  these  three  simple-living 
people. 


5  Victoria  Forde  Mix  aspired  to  be.  in  fact,  the  wife  of  one 
of  the  Hollywood  motion  picture  colony's  richest  men. 
Naturally,  sycophants  surrounded  her.  This  picture  shows  her 
after  she  had  visited  a  plastic  surgeon  and  had  had  her  nose 
remodeled  on  more  tasteful  lines.  She  became  a  social  leader 
in  her  own  set.  They  were  not  Tom's  friends.  There  were 
quarrels,  of  course — but  Tom's  infatuation  burned  on  with  a 
stead>'  Same.  He  was  still,  in  his  heart,  the  simple  plainsman 
who  wanted  one  woman  and  his  home.  But  at  last  came  the 
inevitable — separation. 


6  There  were  attempts  at  reconciliations.  Ambition  had 
broken  the  golden  chain  that  love  had  forged.  They 
failed.  "Vicky  "  went  to  Europe  and  Tom  toured  the  country 
with  a  circus.  When  "  Vicky  "  came  back  from  abroad,  Tom 
settled  $450,000  and  the  palatial  home  on  her.  lie  had 
already  given  her  about  S100.000  worth  of  jewels.  And  now 
Victoria  has  been  granted  a  divorce.  And  today  Tom  Mix 
is  one  of  the  most  miserable  men  in  the  world!  His  great 
wealth  brought  him  nothing  but  sorrow,  because  it  caused 
him  to  lose  the  one  thing  he  adored — Victoria.  And  one  of 
pictures'  most  beautiful  romances  is  dead. 


57 


IF  the  stars  manage  to  have  a  good  time  in  Hollywood,  what 
do  they  do  in  zat  hot,  wide-open  and  happy  Paris?  Oh 
boy,  oh  girl! 

In  both  cases,  the  answer  is  not  much.  And  no  matter 
what  they  do,  it's  tonic,  it's  swell  and  good  for  what  ails  them. 
You  can't  go  Hollywood  in  Paris,  you  can't  even  get  stuck  up, 
you  just  have  to  be  yourself,  and  that  is  the  best  medicine  for  a 
movie  star. 

Only  about  twenty  stars  come  to  Europe  during  a  year — a 
third  of  them  repeaters — and  all  go  back  with  that  slightly 
idiotic  smile  of  happiness  on  their  faces.  If  the  number  were 
multiplied  by  ten,  Hollywood  would  be  a  better  place  to  live 
in,  and  more  pictures  would  ring  the  bell. 

Consider  Paris — this  nice,  clean  Paris,  a  sweet  spot  for  doing 
anything  you  please  and  too  many  people  urging  you  please  do 
it.  Consider  it  from  the  eye  slant  of  the  Beverly  Hillbillies. 
There  are  no  appointments  to  keep,  which  is  to  say  no  directors, 
no  camera  men,  no  press  agents,  no  snoopers,  no  racketeers,  no 
reporters — or  practically  none — in  fact,  nothing  to  stand  be- 
tween a  normally  weak  man  or  woman  and — whoopee. 

But  do  they? 

They  don't.    Well — not  much,  anyhow. 

Life  is  one  tailspin  after  another.  In  Paris  the  braw  sophisti- 
cates of  the  studios  become  as  little  children,  the  big  shots  peter 
down  into  pop-gun  explosions.  They  lose  their  savvy;  they 
drop  their  fronts;  they  become  the  plain  folks  they  used  to  be. 

They  walk,  yokel-like,  along  the  sidewalks,  they  gape  at 
monuments.  They  ask  what  is  that  and  who  is  he,  they  admire 
wistfully  the  way  even  the  little  children  speak  French,  they 
look  in  shop  windows,  they  buy  and  buy  and  buy,  and  after  a 
while  go  by-by  at  almost  decent  hours.  They  don't  know  it, 
often  they  don't  find  out  until  they're  back  home — but  they 
are  being  given  a  good  old  fashioned  spanking  by  an  old  papa 
of  a  continent. 

The  silliness,  the  swelling,  and  the  suet  around  the  head  are 
being  rendered  out  and  they  are  being  put  wise  to  what's  what. 
Paris  is  a  big  town  and  even  an  important  Hollywood  fellow 
takes  up  little  room.  The  fellow  usually  finds  himself  hoping 
to  see  a  face  from  back  home. 

Which  reminds  me,  as  if  I  will  ever  forget  the  look  on  Charlie 
King's  face  when  he  unexpectedly  saw  Buster  Keaton  walk  into 
his  room  .  .  .  but  that's  another  story. 

THE  mere  sound  of  English  being  spoken  tickles  the  tear  duct. 
It's  homesickness.  And  that's  very  good  for  a  soul.  Close-up 
of  Neil  Hamilton  on  top  of  the  Eiffel  Tower  wondering  about 
''my  nice  little  garden"  in  the  West. 

Not  that  they  don't  get  a  few  spots  on  their  wings  by  experi- 
ment into  darker,  high  sky  and  no  limit  Paree.  Oh  yeah!  But 
that's  all  the  old  bologna,  the  well  dogged  trail.  The  kind  of 
law  of  laws  which  says — you  ain't  nothing  if  you  haven't  been 
seen  at  Ciro's  Friday  afternoon,  or  Zelli's  or  the  Ambassadeurs 

88 


We've  missed  Marie  Doro,  for- 
mer star,  for  ten  years.     The 


author  finds  her  in  Paris 


r  ai 


nting 


How  your  screen  favorites 
act  when  they  are  turned 
loose  in  zat  gay  Paree 
with  pockets  full  of  francs 
and  hearts  full  of  hey-hey 


after  midnight.  They  do  things  normally,  nicely.  They  are 
themselves.  It's  a  big  thrill  going  about  unstared  at.  Only 
Joe  Zelli  recognizes  them. 

Ramon  Novarro  excepted.  Poor  kid,  he  used  to  get  the 
Lindbergh  whenever  he  stepped  out  on  a  pavement.  In  Berlin 
he  used  to  stick  around  Lawdy  Lawrence's  office  all  day  listen- 
ing to  the  axe  play  between  that  Super  Film  Salesman  and  the 
German  exhibitors.  When  he  stirred  out  his  chin  went  way 
down  into  his  lapels  and  his  eyes,  the  only  things  visible,  were 
covered  with  smoked  glasses.  Ramoncito  did  his  best  acting 
on  the  sidewalks  of  Europe — but  didn't  always  ge.t  away  with  it. 

A  LOT  of  people  who  get  their  thrills  out  of  the  tabloid  news- 
papers go  around  thinking  that  a  movie  star's  life  in  Paris  is 
just  one  riot  after  another.  But  it  isn't  so.  Champagne  corks 
do  rise  up  and  go  boom,  but  they  don't  go  boom-boom-boom- 
boom  as  they  do  in  the  scenarios.  There  are  cocottcs — also 
grues — and  even  monies — but  aren't  we  all.  Roulette  wheels 
click,  croupiers  command.  And  now  and  then  someone  gets 
drunk — well,  what  of  it?  It's  normal.  And  as  for  the  things 
cuff-marked  Paris — the  "places" — they  hand  the  boys  a  big 
laugh,  so  little  better  are  they  than  our  own  domestic  brand. 
Take  a  swell  girl  like  Eleanor  Boardman.  Eleanor  spent  her 
time  along  the  Seine,  poking  around  in  the  little  stalls  that  line 
the  river  banks.  They  sell  prints,  antiques,  and  books.  She 
got  her  fingers  dirty  but  they  came  out  clutching  two  cute 
pewter  jugs,  a  first  edition  of  Thomas  Hardy  and  a  print  of 
Philadelphia  before  it  went  to  sleep.  King  Yidor,  the  husband, 
went  along  sometimes,  but  he  often  went  prowling  alone  in  the 
Cluny  and  other  museums.  He's  got  a  mind  that  sucks  up 
historv.     He  could  have  made  a  fine  historian.     They  were 


Shy  Ramon  Novarro  has  to  put 

on  dark  glasses  to  enjoy  the 

delights  of  Paris  in  peace 


aris 


ink/ 


By    G  c o r g e   Kent 


crazy  about  Paris,  and  during  their  stay  of  almost  a  year  saw 
Mont  mart  re  just  once — and  that  once  they  had  to  be  dragged. 

When  they  arrived  they  checked  in  at  the  Carlton  Hotel. 
Three  days  later  they  were  gone. 

"What's  the  use  of  coming  to  France,"  quoth  the  King, 
"if  we're  going  to  eat  American  food  with  a  lot  of  Americans, 
waited  on  by  flunkies  who  speak  English  better  than  I  do!" 

THE  Yidors  found  a  little  boarding  house  in  Xeuilly,  outside 
oi  Paris.  Tola  Negri's  mama  and  a  colony  of  aunts,  uncles 
and  cousins  occupy  an  apartment  in  Xeuilly. 

Live  long  enough  in  Paris  and  you'll  meet  not  only  everybody 
that  counts  now  in  Hollywood,  but  also  the  girls  and  boys  who 
used  to  mean  box-office  rushes  whenever  their  names  flashed  in 
the  mazdas. 

At  bookdealer  Brentano's  you'll  sooner  or  later  come  smack 
into  high  prowed,  square  ritrucr  Nita  Naldi.  She's  a  book 
swallower  these  days — but  there's  no  money  in  it.  Menjou  was 
usually  to  be  met  somewhere  between  the  Arc  de  Triomphe  and 
the  Place  de  la  Concorde.  He's  probably  the  most  unaffected 
of  them  all.  and  seems  even  more  so  strolling  the  boulevards. 

Clara  Kimball  Young's  back  home  but  she  used  to  be  meet- 
able,  a  bit  more  bloomy  but  the  same  lustrous  deep-pool  eyes. 
teaing  on  the  Champs.  Fania  Marinoff  too.  With  Carl  Van 
Yechten.  related  to  her  by  marriage.  And  recently  Marie  Doro, 
who  used  to  melt  them  in  their  seats.  She's  been  sick  a  long 
time.  She  said  Taris  styles  are  all  sassafras  because  she's 
hunted  five  years  for  a  hat  and  not  yet  found  one  she  likes.  She 
retains  the  voice  that  made  her  a  star  on  Broadway  and  is 
contemplating  a  come-back. 

People  who  travelled  on  the  steamer  with  Ernest  Torrcnce 
and  his  wife  complained  that  four-fifths  of  their  conversation 
was  about  their  son.  And  the  other  fifth  was  devoted  to  books 
with  titles  ending  in  ology.  Their  son  wasn't  with  them;  he's  a 
sound  engineer  and  was  married  last  Fall. 

Ronnie  Colman  met  them  at  the  station  and  that  shy  lad. 


wise  in  the  ways  of  the  wily  itinerary,  had  it  all  arranged.  First 
night  ashore  is  big  ni^ht  anyway.  They  went  up  the  line.  At 
Joe  Zelli's,  they  were  introduced  by  Zho-ay  himself.  I ■"••r  a 
while  you  couldn't  see  anything  for  the  flowers.  The  l&dii  - 
the  evening  ganged  up  on  them  for  autographs,  taking  them  on 
napkins,  cigarette  boxes,  menu  cards— and  one  very  nice  girl 
bust  out  crying  because  ink  wouldn't  stay  on  her  gentleman 
friend's  gold  watch.  Telephones  on  all  the  tables  for  flirtation 
purposes.     The  Torrcnce  Colman  line  rang  all  morning. 

William  Powell  joined  the  party  the  following  day  and  that 
afternoon  the  foursome  drove  out  to  the  Palace  of  \  ersailh 
and  weren't  impressed.  It  was  Powell's  fir^t  trip  to  Fur 
He  came  over  from  England  where  among  other  thinps  he  got  a 
dozen  suits  at  Anderson  and  Shepherd's.  They  liked  the  ride, 
and  00  the  way  back,  asked  the  chauffeur  how  much  it  would 
cost  to  drive  down  to  Biarritz  some  nine  hundred  miles  away 
— and  that's  how  they  came  to  take  the  trip  South  a  week  later. 

Mister  and    Missus    Torrcnce  had  a  duty  call   to  m.; 
•  H  and  Colman  decided  to  go  for  a  walk.     They  are  as  in- 
offensive a  pair  of  high  powered  sleuths  as  ever  walked  down  a 
Paris  boulevard.     They  were  tapped  on  the  shoulder  and  but- 
tonholed at  every  corner  by  runners  for  tourist  agencies,  dirty 
picture  postcard  salesmen,  red  light  guides.      Nobody   r< 
nized  them.     They  inspired  neither  fear,  awe  nor  reverence. 
They  decided  that  it  was  better  to  flee  the  heat  for  the  cool  of  a 
bar.    And  so  -  that's  how  another  three  o'clock  in  the  aften. 
suddenly  became  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening. 

TI1F  Torrcnce  party  stopped  in  theCrillon.a  big  gray  fori 
hotel,  once  a  palace,  a  bit  old  fashioned  although  still  Wal- 
dorf Astoria.      The  bulk  of  Hollywood  stops  at  Joel  Hillman's 
George  Fifth — sky  high  in  elegance  and  expense. 

Elsie  Janis  lived  a  long  time  at  the  Crillon  the  time  she 
topped  the  bill  at  the  Moulin  Rouge.  She  often  gave  kitty- 
katty  chatter-chatter  tea  parti 

But  in  between  times  her  favorite  fun  was  picking  up  "all 
those  funny  languages''  on  her  radio.    It's  i  to  tune 

in  on  a  love  song  in  Venice  as  it  is  to  pick  up  W  OR  over  here. 

The  Bancrofts,  the  Xeil  Hamiltons  and  Evelyn  Brent  visited 
the  capital  of  France  together.     And  carve  it  on  yoi 
that  George  spent  the  first  night  [  please  turn  to  page  132  ] 


The  Story  of  a 
Girl  Who  Feared 
Love  Might  Fly 
Out     the     Window 


^A  Million 

Dollars 


"No,  I  haven't  a  wife — 
yet,"  Jimmy  answered. 
"But  I  picked  her  out 
this  morning — that  little 
girl  over  there  who  plays 
Gabriel.  Introduce  me 
to  her,  will  you?" 


LITTLE  Jessie  Randolph  was  as  beautiful  a  pony  as  ever 
laughed  across  a  footlight;  pale  gold  hair,  little  waves  of 
it  caught  back  from  small  ears  in  which  were  drops  of 
pearls,  teasing,  tantalizing  lips,  wide,  dusky  eyes,  rouged 
finger-tips. 

By  nineteen  hundred  and  sixteen,  the  little  toasts  of  Broad- 
way had  begun  to  hear  about  Hollywood,  and  Jessie  Randolph, 
who  had  served  a  faithful  forty  weeks  in  Mr.  Ziegfeld's  cele- 
brated chorus,  made  up  her  mind  to  step  out  West  where,  for 
three  or  four  or  five  hundred  dollars  a  day  (so  it  was  rumored), 
beauty  and  innocence  and  heart-breaking  eyes  could  supply 
fodder  for  the  ever  empty  maw  of  the  camera. 

The  chorus  had  been  hard,  but  the  screen  was  harder.  The 
three  or  four  or  five  hundred  a  day  proved  to  be  five  dollars  or 
ten  or  fifteen,  and  cruelly  spasmodic. 

Little  Jessie  Randolph  went  through  tireless  hours  for  the 
men  who  make  pictures,  her  emotions  worn  to  tatters,  her 
grease-paint  smeared  with  genuine  tears.  It  was  no  thirst  for 
glory,  nor  was  she  riding  in  that  well-known  wagon  hitched  to 
stars,  nor  yet  palpitatingly  answering  opportunity  rapping  at 
the  door;  except  as  this  medium  might  present  the  opportunity 
to  which,  after  all,  every  struggling  little  girl  is  slave! 

She  quite  frankly  told  anybody  who  inquired  what  future  she 
hoped  for,  that  she  had  come  West  to  get  a  picture  magnate 
with  a  million,  if  she  possibly  could. 

And  for  a  little  girl  as  utterly  lovely  as  Jessie  Randolph,  the 
fulfillment  would  ordinarily  have  been  as  simple  as  the  sugges- 
tion. But  Jessie  had  the  unique  idea  of  wanting  him  as  a  hus- 
band rather  than  merely  a  gentleman  who  would  call  around  to 
pay  the  bills,  so  her  little  feet,  in  their  high-heeled  size  2  B  shoes, 
were  kept  treading  the  mill  of  her  by-no-means-rose-colored 
career.  And  the  longer  it  went  on,  and  the  more  she  sensed  how 
real  are  the  intricacies  of  trading  doughnuts  for  dollars,  the 
more  determined  she  became  to  marry  nothing  less  than  a  sure 


By 

Dixie    Willson 


Illustrated  by  H.   R.   Ballinger 


and  sufficient  amount  of  sable  to  enfold  her  the  rest  of  her 
natural  life,  leaving  her  no  more  concern  as  to  where  it  came 
from  than  the  sable  had  had  before  her. 

As  to  mere  proposals,  they  came  like  mosquitoes  on  a  sum- 
mer night  from  every  age  and  quality  of  gentleman  even  the 
most  ambitious  of  little  girls  could  have  expected;  and  repre- 
senting practically  every  amount  between  ten  dollars  and  nine 
hundred  thousand.  But  little  Jessie  Randolph  was  out  for  a 
picture  magnate  with  a  million,  and  if  anyone  knew  bttle  Jessie 
Randolph  that  was  all  there  was  to  thai! 

JIMMY  MACALISTER  was  a  tall  young  man  who  drove  a 
stage  from  the  Yitagraph  lot  to  location.  The  stage  was  a 
swaying  old  automobile  which  took  to  work  people  who  made 
up  and  dressed  at  the  studio,  but  whose  sets  were  a  few  miles 
distant;  pirates  going  to  a  rock-bound  coast,  Bedouins  to  a  des- 
ert, adorable  orphans  and  their  fussy  mothers  to  an  asylum,  or, 
as  on  the  morning  of  the  tenth  of  July,  angels  going  to  Heaven. 

Jimmy  was  serious  for  twenty-two  years  old;  at  least  his 
eyes  were  serious  under  his  shock  of  dark  brown,  boyish  curls. 
Only  the  grease-covered  khaki  he  wore  saved  him  from  being 
quite  a  little  bit  too  good-looking. 

On  the  morning  of  the  tenth  of  July,  his  stage  was  ready  by 
the  studio  door  at  seven  twenty-three,  and  promptly  at  seven- 
thirty,  according  to  the  call,  he  took  aboard  a  choir  of  seraphims, 
the  twelve  apostles,  St.  Peter,  a  Chinese  laundryman,  four  vi- 
kings, a  pair  of  English  street-walkers,  Benjamin  Franklin,  a 


•*.   \  >•«*-*. 


Wb  *///♦«  y- 


scarred  Irish  harp,  a  folding  organ,  two  musicians,  and  an 
extremely  beautiful  female  Gabriel  in  military  white  satin, 
trailing  wings,  bugle  and  sword,  and  pale  gold  hair  bound 
under  a  halo. 

THE  stage  was  going  ten  miles  to  the  lot  where  T.asky's  shot 
its  outside  stuff,  and  where  a  set  had  been  built  for  "Her 
Hour  of  Judgment."  And.  for  ten  miles.  Jimmy  Macalister's 
brakes  and  gears  operated  by  luck  and  not  by  reason,  as  his  con- 
sciousness went  gathering  the  intoxicating  wool  of  GabrieTs 
voice  and  laughter  a  few  seats  behind  him,  and  the  faint  breath 
of  her  perfume. 

At  location  (rumbling  on  to  the  lot  along  a  road  which,  the 
day  before,  had  been  made  suitably  rough  and  painful  for  Sher- 
man's march  to  the  sea),  he  parked  opposite  a  gold  fapier- 
Heaven. 

Everybody  got  out.  The  director,  who  was  waiting,  immed- 
iately got  busy.      No  time  was  lost  in  opening  the  pearly  gates. 

It  was  ninety  in  the  shade.  Jimmy  sat  for  three  hours,  mop- 
ping the  perspiration  from  his  forehead  and  watching  the  sera- 
phims  strum  their  cardboard  harps,  while  St.  Peter  presided 
at  "  Her  Hour  of  Judgment."  and  Gabriel,  on  a  pallet  of  stars, 
like  a  pallet  of  rocks,  smiled  with  superhuman  effort  in  her 
sleep  under  the  battery  of  a  dozen  reflectors  and  Klieg  suns. 
Up  there  it  was  a  hundred  and  eleven!  How  beautiful  she  was! 
How  long,  in  this  merciless  heat,  would  Heaven  have  to  last! 
Not  a  spear  of  shade  in  the  whole  topaz  Paradise: 


At  eleven-thirty.  Henry  Mcrton  came  across  the  road  from 
the  lunch  wagon,  on  which  he  had  iu>t  arrived. 

"Well,"  he  said,  "is  it  warm  enough  for  you?" 

He  had  had  lunch  in  town.  He  shifted  a  celluloid  toothpick 
from  the  right  side  of  his  mouth  to  the  left.  Hi  was  >hort  and 
plump  and  wore  wilted  linen.  His  eyes  were  framed  in  little 
rhomboid  patterns  of  crinkles.  He  was  the  scenario  writer  who 
had  adapted  Her  Hour  of  Judgment"  from  "Quo  Vadis." 
With  a  highly  polished  forefinger,  he  motioned  Jimmy  to  make 
room  on  the  driver's  seat  of  the  stag 

"Them  gold  clouds  makes  a  nice  layout,  ain't  it?"  hi 
"  This  here  would  have  been  another  '  Hirth  of  a  Nation '  if  they 
had  only  got  Francis  X.  Hushman  or  Costello  for  I'ick- 

ford  plays  Eve  perfect,  but  she's  got  no  support!" 

The  thin  music  of  "Rock  oi  -  drifted  down,  as  played 
by  the  harp  and  cabinet  organ  crowded  out  of  sight  behind  the 
crystal  throne.    Atmosphere  to  help  the  angels  be  celestial. 

Mr.  Merton  shifted  the  toothpick. 

"\\  TELL"  he  inquired,  "did  you  buy  that  there  dumping 
W  ground  in  the  country  you  was  talking  about?" 
"  Yes, "  Jimmy  said,  his  eyes  on  Heaven.  "I  bought  it.  I've 
been  looking  things  over  pretty  carefully  out  here.  I  think 
pictures  are  going  to  make  something  of  Hollywood.  I  get 
thirty  a  week.  1  can  live  on  ten.  and  I've  been  soaking  that  other 
little  twenty  into  every  piece  of  land  I  could  get!  In  nineteen 
twenty-five  or  six,  I  think  it'll  be  worth  something!" 

U 


"Well— I  don't  know,"  Merton  said  thoughtfully.  ''It's  a 
gamble!  Ever'  so  often  there's  got  to  be  a  gold  rush  to  Cali- 
fornia, and  the  movies  is  the  last  one.  But  maybe  by  nineteen 
twenty-five  the  whole  works  has  went  to  Florida  or  somewheres!" 

The  strains  of  the  harp  and  the  organ  came  down. 

"  I  know,"  Jimmy  said,  his  eyes  serious,  "but  it's  a  hunch! 
I  always  follow  a  hunch!  I've  got  a  hunch  about  Hollywood 
real  estate,  and  I  want  to  start  investing  money  because  I  want 
to  be  able  to  have  something  some  day  for  my  wife." 

Henry  Merton  turned  the  vizor  of  his  linen  cap  around 
between  his  left  eye  and  the  sun. 

"  You  don't  say,"  he  remarked. 
"I  didn't  know  you  had  one." 

"I  haven't,"  Jimmy  said,  "but 
I'm  going  to  have.  I  picked  her  out 
this  morning.  That's  another  hunch." 
He  brushed  his  hand  back  over  his 
thick  boyish  hair.  "It's  a  little  girl 
up  there  on  the  set,"  he  said.  "I 
haven't  met  her  yet.  Will  you 
introduce  me?" 

"Sure,"  Merton  agreed.  "Which 
one  is  it?" 

"Gabriel"  Jimmy  Macalister  told 
him.  "She's  the  sweetest  kid  I  ever 
saw  around  here,  or  anywhere  else! 
As  far  as  I'm  concerned,  it's  all  over 
right  now!" 

Henry  Merton  moved  the  vizor  of 
his  cap  around  over  the  other  eye,  put  the  toothpick  solemnly 
in  his  vest  pocket  and  regarded  with  sympathy  the  young  man 
who  sat  in  the  driver's  seat  of  the  stage. 

"  You're  cock-eyed,  "  he  said  gently.  "  Do  you  know  who  that 
is?  That's  Jessie  Randolph.  Do  you  know  who  Jessie  Ran- 
dolph is?  She's  the  most  calculatin'  baby  that  ever  shaped  an 
eyebrow!  She's  only  got  one  idea  and  that's  money.  All  she 
wants  to  know  about  love  is  what  does  the  bank  book  read.  If 
it's  enough  ciphers,  O.K.  If  it  ain't,  he's  Madame  Butterfly. 
She's  out  here  for  just  one  reason,  which  is  to  make  a  play  for  a 
picture  millionaire.    And  if  you  know  Jessie  like  I  know  Jessie,  a 


WITH  the  talkies  in  full  charge, 
English  accents  have  become 
precious  in  Hollywood. 

One  producer  needed  an  English 
ingenue.  They  proved  scarce. 
Agents  submitted  their  artists.  The 
last  agent  had  but  one  candidate  to 
offer. 

He  laid  her  picture  on  the  pro- 
ducer's desk.  "There  she  is,"  he 
said.  "She's  a  little  crary — but  she's 
English!" 


picture  millionaire  is  what  it's  goin'  to  be  and  nothin'  else!  Do 
you  think  a  girl  with  ambitions  is  go'n'  to  step  down  to  the 
sphere  of  a  bus  driver?" 

"I  don't  know,"  Jimmy  Macalister  said.  "If  you'll  intro- 
duce me  I'll  find  out.  They're  quitting  for  lunch.  If  I  get  a 
date  for  tonight,  will  you  pay  for  It?" 

If  you  get  a  date  for  tonight  with  her,  I'll  eat  hay  with  the 
horse!"  the  scenario  writer  said  shortly. 

The  seraphims  were  climbing  down  the  clouds.  Gabriel  bent 
the  heavy  wings  away  from  her  shoulders;  pressed  her  hands 
against  her  eyes  for  a  moment,  then 
came  over  towards  the  lunch  wagon. 
"Warm  enough  for  you?"  Merton 
called  out.  "  Come  here.  Meet  Jim 
Macalister.    He  drives  the  bus." 

'  Gabriel  looked  interestedly  at  Jim 
Macalister. 

"How  do  you  do,  Mr.  Macalister" 
she  said,  "but  everybody  calls  you 
just  'Jimmy,'  don't  they?" 

He  tried  to  keep  his  heart  out  of  his 
eyes,  but  he  couldn't  do  it. 

"  Would  you  go  and  dance  a  little 
while  with  me  tonight?"  he  asked 
her — "  and  have  some  supper?  " 
"I'd  love  to,"  she  said. 
"I  hope  you  wouldn't  mind  going 
somewhere,"  he  said  awkwardly, 
"that  isn't  too  hard  on  money." 
She  looked  up  at  him,  and  there  was  a  smile  in  her  dusky, 
lovely  eyes! 

"I  know  a  lot  of  places  like  that,"  she  told  him. 

THE  seraphims,  coming  from  the  lunch  wagon  with  sand- 
wiches and  cups  of  coffee,  went  around  the  bus  and  up  on 
the  shady  steps  of  the  Imperial  palace  of  the  Czar. 

Little  Jessie  Randolph  put  her  hands  down  in  her  white  satin 
Gabriel  pockets. 

"I  live  in  Canary  Court,"  she  said,  "on  Sunset  Boulevard. 
I'll  be  ready  about  eight."  [  please  turn  to  page  125  ] 


The  Best  Figure 
in  Hollywood? 


A  JURY  of  experts — a  famous  Broadway 
producer  of  "girl  shows,"  an  eminent 
physician,  a  celebrated  modiste,  and  a 
nationally  known  painter  of  beauty  decide 
on  one  star.  The  decision,  which  also  lists 
other  contestants  for  the  honor,  will  start 
much  controversy  among  admirers  of  the 
beauties  of  the  screen. 

The  article,  by  Adele  Whitely  Fletcher, 
famous  writer  on  picture  personalities,  tells 
whv  the  experts  arrived  at  their  conclusions, 
and  contains  a  wealth  of  advice  to  women 
desiring  to  improve  their  figures,  and  a  few 
shocks  for  young  women  who  are  starving 
and  suffering  to  achieve  that  boyish  outline. 


In    the    M arch    Issue 

of  Photoplay  Magazine 


jA/Ucn  Hollywood  Cried 


ears 


gone 


w  a  s    a 


HOLLYWOOD 
sentimental! 
Here   it    had    built    up    a 
swell,  an  international  repu- 
tation for  being  hard-boiled,  sophisti- 
cated, worldly-wise — and  then  on  one 
fatal  night  it  breaks  down  and  exposes 
that,  after  all.  it  is  just  a  simple  little 
burg,   with  emotions  just  as  funda- 
mental and  simple  and  true  as  can  be  found  in  the  smallest 
hamlet. 

Hollywood  came  to  an  opening  of  "  Min  and  Hill.'"  a  Metro- 
Goldwyn-Mayer  picture  co-starring  Marie  Dressier  and  Wallace 
Beery,  and  Hollywood  cried.    Yes  sir.  Hollywood  bawled. 

Hollywood  openings  are  famous,  of  course,  for  their  splendor. 

Lights  blaze.  Gloriously 
garbed  beauties  step  from 
shining  cars  and  parade  down 
the  long  forecourts  of  the  big 
theaters.  Loudspeakers  blare 
the  names  of  the  cinema  elect 
and  elite  to  thousandsof  sight 
seers,  herded  behind  ropes. 
Ximble  autograph  seekers 
slip  under  the  arms  of  com- 
placent coppers  to  get  the  sig- 
natures of  the  great  and  the 
great 

It's  all  very  eye-filling,  but 
usually  it  is  quite  a  lot  of 
applesauce. 

The  stars  who  are  still  rising 
go  to  these  openings  because 
it  is  "good  business"  to  be 
seen. 

The  stars  who  have  ar- 
rived seldom  attend  them.  To  them  they  have  become  a  bore. 

So  openings,  you  see.  are  not  normally  expected  to  be  either 
sincere  or  emotional  affairs. 

They  are  just  the  frosting  on  the  cake,  the  gilt  on  the  statue, 
the  froth  on  the  beer. 


A  huge  night  in  Marie  Dressler's  life.  Wally 
Beery,  co-star  of  "Min  and  Bill,"  giving  her 
a  big  hug  the  night  the  film  opened  in  Holly- 
wood. Wally's  head  got  bumped  in  a  minor 
plane  accident 


It 

w  hen     Film 


n 


i£ 


heartfelt  tribute 


aging   woman    who    had 
come  back  to   the  bi^crest 


triumph  she  had  ever  known 


And   then   came    Marie    Dressler's 
big  moment. 

Usually  at  openings  the  stars  and 
featured    players    alight    from    their 
•.ml  bustle  quickly  to  the  theater 
and  their  seats. 

At  the  "  Min  and  Bill"  affair,  how 
ever,  the  early  comers  asked,  "Has 
Marie  come?"  and  then  stood,  with 
the  other  sightseers  and  waited. 

Finally,  up  came  a  big  black  limousine.     In  it  one  saw  the 
usual  upheaval  of  the  black  and  white  of  masculine  full  dr. 
ami  the  volcanic  surge  of  silken  ruffles.      The  forecourt  became 
almost   deathly  quiet.     Then  out  of  the  car  backed  a  large- 
woman.     She  turned  around,  showed  to  the  crowd  a  beautiful 

face,  wrinkl'  rn.  filled 

with  experiences  which  b 
never  embittered. 

A  leluge  of  applause  de- 
scended upon  her. 

Never  in  the  history  of 
Hollywood  has  there  been 
such  an  ovation  for  a  per- 
former. 

Tears  came  freely.  Hand- 
kerchiefs flashed  out  so  fast 
they  looked  like  a  shower  of 
confetti. 

Hollywood  cried. 
Lor  Hollywood  was  deeply 
touched  by  this  latter-day 
triumph  of  a  woman  whose 
gameness  against  adversit> 
has  long  been  a  by-word  on 
both  stage  and  screen. 

Marie    Dressier   has   had 
"or>e  luck  than  any  player  in  the  profession. 

At  least  rive  times  she's  had  a  fortune,  and  lost  it  because  of 
ill-health,  or  tricks  of  fate. 

Twice  she's  been  up  to  stardom,  only  to  lose  her  chance  by  a 
sudden  illness. 

43 


r  e  a  t 
t  o  w  n 


ht 

id 


pa 

to   an 


*->f> 


Once,  in  the  movies,  she  attained  the  heights  with  one  of  the 
funniest  pictures  ever  made,  "Tillie's  Punctured  Romance," 
and  then  suddenly,  without  warning  or  without  seeming  reason, 
she  went  into  total  eclipse. 

A  woman  who  had  been  getting  $2000  a  week  found  it  hard 
to  get  jobs  at  $150. 

She  was  sneered  at  as  a  "has-been." 
and  kept  going.  She  never  railed  at 
her  hardluck.  She  knew  she  was  a 
good  actress  and  she  had  abiding 
confidence  that  luck  again  would  some 
day  come  her  way. 

Luck?  Well,  it  was  far  from  being 
all  luck.  Because  Marie  Dressier, 
veteran  trouper  and  great  show- 
woman,  has  followed  a  straight  line 
of  the  soundest  sense  since  she  came 
to  Hollywood. 

And  Marie's  as  smart  as  they  come, 
of  any  age! 

Here's  what  she  told  young 
actresses  to  do.  It's  what  she's  done 
herself. 

"Take  every  part  that's  offered. 
If  it's  small,  make  it  bigger  by  hard 
work.  If  it's  big,  make  it  great.  No- 
body's big  enough  in  this  business  to 
refuse  a  part  because  it's  hardly  more 
than  a  bit!" 

That's  what  Marie  did.  And  it 
worked.  Luck?    Well,  not  altogether! 

Came  Marthy  in  "Anna  Christie." 
Came  Boosy  in  "Let  Us  Be  Gay."     Came  "Caught  Short," 
and,  to  cap  it  all,  came  "  Min  and  Bill. " 

Hollywood  knows  that  one  hit  may  be  an  accident  but  that 
four  and  five  in  a  row  mean  a  triumph. 

So  Hollywood  reached  for  its  handkerchief  when  a  heavy, 
tired,  aging,  very  happy  woman  stepped  out  of  her  car  one 
Thursday  night  into  the  collective  arms  of  an  entire  community. 


She  gritted  her  teeth 


ONE  of  Joe  Frisco's 
first  Hollywood 
experiences  was  what 
happened  when  he 
advertised  for  a  cook. 
A  beautiful  blonde 
applied. 

"W-w-what  do  y-you 
want?"  he  asked. 
"I've  come  in  answer  to  your  ad 
for  a  cook,"  she  explained. 

Frisco  considered  her  carefully. 
Then: 

"G-g-g-go  avyay,"  he  said,  "g-g-g-go 
away.  If  I  h-hire  you  for  a  c-c-c-cook 
now,  I  know  d-d-dam  well  it'll 
only  be  a  week  or  t-t-t-two  before  I 
have  to  hire  another  c-c-cook  for 
b-b-b-both  of  us!" 


On  this  occasion  Wallace  Beery,  lumpy,  villainous  in  ap] 
ance,  proved  himself  a  gallant  and  a  gentleman  of  ! 
first  water. 

Remember  that  "Min  and  Bill"  is  Wally's  picture,  i 
He  is  a  co-star  with  Miss  Dressier.     He  might  easily  h 
fought  for  a  place  in  the  limelight,  sought  to  have  diminished 
the  "spot"  his  fellow-player  was  getting. 

But  Beery  had  already  had  his 
triumph. 

"The  Big  House"  is  a  matter  of 
history.  Butch  had  had  his  place  in 
the  sun. 

So  when  his  car  arrived,  ahead  of 
the  Dressier  machine,  Wally  unob- 
trusively slipped  to  one  side  and 
waited.  When  Miss  Dressier  arrived 
he  offered  her  his  arm  for  escort  to 
the  waiting  microphones,  hooked  up 
for  a  national  broadcast.  He  took 
her  to  see  the  enormous  parchment 
book  in  which  the  arriving  stars  had 
written  their  names  and  messages  of 
tributes  to  her.  He  subordinated 
himself  completely.  Miss  Dressier 
sensed  what  he  was  doing,  and  im- 
pulsively pulled  him  back  in  front  of 
the  lights,  and  kissed  him. 

Youngsters  in  the  crowd  howled 
with  glee.  But  the  oldsters  there 
wiped  away  still  another  tear. 

For  they  knew  this  was  no  staged 
kiss,  no  caress  for  the  sake  of  publici- 
ty or  show-off,  but  an  impulsive,  lovely  gesture  of  thanks  from 
a  grand  woman  with  an  overflowing  heart,  to  a  big,  bulky, 
modern   Knight  of   the  Round  Table. 

Hollywood's  famous  shell  of  super-smartness   was  broken 
with  a  vengeance. 

Hollywood  knew  that  its  hidden  secret,  its  carefully  guarded 
sentimentality,  had  at  last  broken  its  bonds. 


Two  Kinds 
of 

Love 


At  the  right  we  see  the  con- 
ventional Janet  Gaynor- 
Charles  Farrell  clinch  — 
Charles  advancing,  Janet  re- 
treating, and  all  very  sweet 
and  coy.  But  what's  this  at 
the  left?  It's  a  Farrell-Gay- 
nor  picture  the  like  of  which 
has  never  been  seen  up  to 
now — Charlie  doing  a  vicious 
choking  act  with  his  little 
screen  sweetheart.  It's  from 
"The  Man  Who  Came  Back" 


I 


Why 
Leslie  Fen  ton 


c 


ante 


Back 


Two  years  ago  they  called 
him  a  nut  when  he  chucked 
a  million  dollars'  worth 
of  talkie  contracts  and 
sailed  away.  Now  he's  back 
—  and    here's    the    reason! 


THE  other  night  at  the  Embassy  Club — that  temple  of 
Hollywood  pretentiousness  I  saw  Leslie  Fenton  danc- 
ing in  a  gentlemanly  manner,  wearing  a  faultless  tail 
Coat  and  otherwise  conducting  himself  like  all  the  actors 
who  live  in  Beverly  Hills  palaces. 

Nobody  seemed  to  think  it  strange  that  Leslie  Fenton  should 
be  seen  in  such  a  place  in  such  a  manner,  but  as  for  me.  1  found  a 
corner  and  wept  a  few  of  my  most  poignant  tears.  I  can't  tell 
you  how  I  felt  about  it — sort  of  frustrated  and  terribly  dis- 
appointed. Lor  Leslie  Fenton  had  been  my  small,  steady- 
burning  light  in  the  Hollywood  conflagration. 

Here's  the  story. 

A  year  ago  he  chucked  pictures.  He  was  at  the  peak  of  his 
career.  He  had  been  offered  three  important  contracts.  He 
might  have  remained  in  Hollywood  and  made  a  million  dollars. 
Instead  he  shipped  on  an  Italian  tramp  steamer  bound  for  the 
island  of  Majorca  and  other  points  Last  ami  West 

When  everybody  said  to  him,  "  You  fool.  You  might  stay  in 
Hollywood  and  make  a  million  dollars."  he  answered,  "That's 
just  what  I'm  afraid  of.  There's  nothing  so  enslaving  as  money. 
Look  at  the  great  actors  who  come  to  Hollywood  and  exude 
complacency.  They  were  great  when  they  were  rebels.  Xow 
they  are  householders  with  yachts  and  swimming  pool>  " 

Of  course,  Hollywood  said  he  had  gone  completely  off  his  nut, 
due,  perhaps,  to  the  fact  that  he  had  played  so  many  perform- 
ances of  "The  American  Tragedy."    It  sometimes  gets  actors. 

And,  although  I  didn't  know  Leslie  Fenton.  I  went  about 
giving  three  rousing  cheers  and  a  tiger  for  the  one  person  who 
had  the  courage  to  throw  aside  the  sham  of  Hollywood  while 
he  was  at  the  top. 

I  made  myself  quite  a  nuisance,  and  after  a  while  people  got 
tired  of  listening  to  me  go  on  about 

the  Leslie  Fenton  business.    But  the        r>  IS  /7  /  7.  „  „ 

more  1  thought  of  it  the  more  it  got  to       -£>  y       l\  U  I  fl  C  f 


The  latest  picture  of  LeslieFenton,  taken  since  he 
fled  from  the  Hollywood  reservation  in  search  of 
freedom.  Note  the  go-to-heck  look  in  the  eyes. 
Now  he's  home  again  for  more  wander-dough 


mean  to  me.  It  seemed  pretty  swell  that  a  man  who  could  have 
all  the  money  he  wanted  would  prefer  to  throw  it  away  for  ad- 
venture. And  whenever  the  circle  of  the  fdm  center  closed  in 
upon  me  I'd  say  to  myself,  "But  look  what  Leslie  Fenton  did!" 

And  when  actors  told  me  sad  stories  about  how  they  had 
tasted  the  bitterness  of  Hollywood  I  always  said,  "But  th< 
Leslie  Fenton." 

So  maybe  you  understand  why  I  wept  on  my  very  best  eve- 
ning dress  when  I  saw  him  as  one  of  the  smug  dancers  on  the 
Embassy  Club  floor,  doing  just  what  he'd  run  away  from. 

THE  next  day  there  was  an  item  in  the  paper  to  the  effect  that 
Leslie  Fenton  had  signed  with  Fox  for  "  The  Man  Who  Came 
Back."  That  was  irony.  He  went  away  to  avoid  the  self- 
satisfied  hum-drum  of  the  studios.  And  in  a  little  over  a  year 
he  hail  come  bark  to  smear  his  face  with  grease  paint.  Oddly 
enough,  in  the  Lox  picture  he's  an  off-stage  voice— but  a  very 
important  one! 

I  talked  to  Lvelyn  Brent  about  it.  because  she's  such  a  swell 
girl  and  usually  sees  things  so  clearly.     She  said  she  knew 
pretty  well  and  I  ought  to  ask  him  outright  why  he  returned. 

"  I'm  afraid  to,"  I  said.    "  I'm  afraid  he'll  <av  that  adventure 
is  all  right  in  its  place,  but  that  a  man  does  have  his  duty  t 
public  to  consider  and  that  dear  old  Hollywood  is  a  pretty  good 
place  after  all." 

Betty  Brent  smiled  and  said,  "  I  don't  believe  Leslie  Fenton 
will  say  that." 

And  then  I  sat  opposite  him  at  luncheon  a  few  days  later  and 
asked.  "Why  did  you  come  back  to 
I  J   //     »    -  /       Hollywood?" 

I  II  L  £\lUCjl  [  PLEASE  TURN   1  I  ^5  ] 


HAVE  Greta  Garbo  and  Clarence  Brown 
battled? 
Is  the  greatest  and  most  successful 
director-star  combination  in  modern  pictures 
busted  wide  open? 

So  says  Hollywood  rumor.  Brown  is  not 
directing  Garbo  in  "Susan  Lenox,"  King  Vidor 

is  handling  the  job.  The  Garbo- Brown  dis- 
agreement is  said  to  have  taken  place  during 
t  lie  making  of  the  recently  completed  "  Inspira- 
tion." 

Ik-ginning  with  "  Flesh  and  the  Devil," 
Brown  has  directed  the  Swede  in  most  of  her 
great  pictures,  including  her  first  three  talkies. 
She  usually  demanded  him. 

Is  it  all  over  now?  If  it  is,  both  will  be  badly, 
if  not  mortally,  hurt.   For  they're  a  great  team! 


Pal 


York 


No,  not  Florida!  Not  Malibu 
Beach!  Not  even  Deauville  or 
Coney  Island!  Nancy  Carroll  is 
giving  us  an  eyeful  on  the  hot 
sands  of  Paramount's  Eastern 
Studio — in  "Stolen  Heaven" 


T  OUELLA  PARSONS  tells  a  grand  one  anent 
-'—'the  Garbo-Dietrich  situation. 

It  appears  M-G-M  wanted  some  new  photos 
of  Garbo.    And  Garbo  doesn't  like  to  pose. 

A  publicity  man  went  to  her. 

"We  need  some  new  pictures  of  you,"  he 
began. 

She  did  as  expected.  "Why  you  want  me  to 
pose?  Have  you  not  maybe  already  a  million 
or  two  pictures  of  me?  Why  can  you  not  use 
them  instead  of  asking  me  to  pose  again?'' 

The  boy  thought  fast. 


The    Monthly 

Hollywood 


Joan  Crawford  has  gone  into  the  newspaper  business — for  camera 
purposes  only — and  here  we  see  the  new  sob-sister  at  work  pounding 
out  the  conventional  story  of  the  crippled  apple  vender.  Next  her  is 
Cliff  Edwards,  and  in  the  rear  Director  Harry  Beaumont  and  camera- 
man.   From  "Dance,  Fool,  Dance" 


"You  see,"  he  said,  "  Paramount  has  used  all 
those  old  ones  we  had  to  exploit  Marlene 
Dietrich." 

Garbo  grinned. 

"All  right.    I- come  then,"  she  agreed. 

AND  somebody  said,  "There  is 
really  no  Greta  Garbo  nor  no 
Marlene  Dietrich.  They're  both 
Gwen  Lee." 

WELL,  Hollywood  wasn't  surprised  when  it 
learned  that  John  McCormick  (Colleen 
Moore's  ex-hubby;  NOT  the  Irish  singer)  is  to 
take  another  wife.  She's  Mae  Clark,  stage  and 
screen  girl. 

The  couple  told  a  few  friends  about  it,  and 
the  news  flew  over  Hollywood.  As  a  matter  of 
fact  the  romance  has  been  growing  since  last 
fall — all  their  friends  have  noticed  it. 

The  wedding  can't  be  until  next  May,  when 
the  McCormick-Moore  decree  is  finalized. 

AS  this  is  written,  people  who've  been  seen 
places  together  include: 
Russell  Gleason  and  Marguerite  Churchill. 


Roscoe  Arbuckle  and  Addie  McPhail. 
Ivan  LebedetT  and  Thelma  Todd. 
Fred  Scott  and  Sally  Starr. 
William  Powell  and  Carole  Lombard. 
But  that's  as  this  is  written — by  the  time 
you  read  it — well,  you  know  Hollywood. 

AUSTIN   Joke  No.  3875,  Holly- 
wood Version: 
Movie  actor  comes  out  of  theater 
after  seeing  the  preview  of  his  first 
picture.     He  couldn't  get  back  into 
his  Austin. 

MARLENE  DIETRICH,  the  new  sensation 
by  virtue  of  talent  and  beauty,  hankered 
for  her  baby  in  Germany. 

"  Morocco  "  a  hit  and  "  Dishonored  "  finished, 
she  set  out  for  six  weeks'  holiday — a  Christmas 
with  her  dear  ones  at  home. 

She  arrived  in  New  York  one  Friday  morn- 
ing. Then  began  a  day  full  of  marvels — what 
a  girl! 

She  found  "Morocco"  a  sensation  on  Broad- 
way. The  day  she  arrived  "The  Blue  Angel'' 
opened  at  a  Broadway  theater.     That's  the 


46 


A 


nnouncing 


B  road  c as  t    of 


Goines-On/ 


e> 


Harold  Lloyd  has  two  daughters  now!  Marjorie  Elizabeth, right,  has 
been  legally  adopted  by  the  comic  and  his  wife,  and  Mildred  Gloria 
has  a  playmate  on  the  Lloyd  estate.  Mildred  Gloria,  broadly  grinning 
here,  seems  to  be  having  the  tooth  trouble  which  falls  upon  young 
ladies  and  gentlemen  of  her  tender  age 


Mr. 

s 


great  picture  starring  F.mil  Tannings  and  her- 
self, which  Josef  Von  Sternberg  directed  in 
Germany. 

She  went  to  .1  hotel  to  rest  The  press  paid 
court.  At  noon  she  lunched  amid  stares  and 
ohs  and  ahs.  In  the  evening  Fredric  March 
introduced  her  from  the  stage  of  the  Rivoli 
Theater,  where  "Morocco"  was  showing. 

At  midnight  she  went  aboard  a  liner  and 
sailed  away  tor  a  happy  stay  at  home. 

A  German  girl,  new  to  this  country  and  nearly 
new  to  films — the  first  actress  in  talkie  history 
to  have  two  pictures  making  extended  runs  on 
Broadway  at  the  same  time,  and  these  her  first 
two  pictures!    Tie  that,  some  bright  girl! 

And  is  Marlene  beautiful!  If  you  think  she's 
blazing  on  the  screen — well,  she's  blistering  in 
person  Take  it  from  Cal.  he  saw  her.  And  he 
hasn't  been  the  same  since! 

A  FTER  the  making  of  "Morocco,"  Gary 
■*  K'ooperand  Marlene  were  slated  for  another 
film  together.  But  Victor  Mcl.aglen  was  bor- 
rowed from  Fox  instead,  and  they  said  Gary 
couldn't  do  the  part  because  he  was  too  ex- 
hausted from  the  many  pictures  he  had  made. 


A(«*l  folk* 


However,  rumor  has  it  that  the  big  boy'from 
Montana  was  pretty  disgruntled  over  the  fact 
that  "Morooc  1  '  had  been  cut  to  give  Marlene 
every  break.  He  feels  that  the  studio  has  used 
him  as  a  stepping  stone  for  the  new  star. 

BILLIE  DOVE!  is  wearing  a  colos- 
sal diamond  on  that  finger. 
Howard  Hughes  is  one  man  who  of 
the  few  men   in   Hollywood   would 
have  had  enough  money  to  buy  it. 

They're    still    admitting    nothing. 
They're  also  still  denying  nothing. 

A  EL  of  theTioIlywood  wonder  boy?  and  girls 
■**-have  been  wondering  how  Greta  Garbo 
would  feel  about  Marlene.  who  is  a  formidable 
contender  for  the  Garbo  crown. 

Garbo.  as  usual,  is  silent  but  her  very  favor- 
ite phonograph  record  is  a  German  blues  tune 
sung  by — -guess  who! — Marlene  Dietrich,  her- 
self.   Garbo  plays  it  over  and  over. 

A  PRODUCER  had  selected  Louis  Brom- 
field.  author  of  "The  Green  Bay  Tree." 
"Possession"  and  "24  Hours'' — all  of  them 


Standing  in  the  reflected  glory  of 
her  sister.  Terry  Carroll,  sister  of 
Nancy,  appears  with  the  star  for 
the  first  time  in  Paramount's 
"Stolen  Heaven."  See  Nancy  in 
the  glass? 


The  others'    V  d.    Colleen  Moore's 

show  died  a  quick  death  on  the  road.  Rod 
I. a  Rocque  and  Vilma  Banky  disappeared  in 
the  hinterland.  -itine  reports  are  not 

in  on  Olive  Borden's  play.    Anna  May 
isdoinc  fine  in  'On  the  Spot."  an  Edgar  Wal- 
lace thriller,  and  so  is  I  he  veteran  Crane  Wilbur, 
the  orieinal  Peril  ot  Pauline. 

But  Lya  He  Putti  suffered  the  most  tragic 
fate.  She  opened  on  Broadway  in  a  terrible 
play  called  "Made  in  France."  The  critics 
were   vicious.     Unnecessarily  brutal  to  poor 


Tune    in,    folks,    on    Cal    York' 


Many  of  our  film  friends  have 
turned  to  the  stage  recently,  but 
here's  Hollywood's  finest  gift  to 
the  theater  this  season!  Little 
Lois  Moran  as  she  appears  in 
"This  Is  New  York,"  in  which  she 
has  scored  a  hit 


Lya.    After  one  performance,  broken  by  critical 
cruelty,  Lya  took  to  her  bed. 

And  that  was  the  end  of  that  sad  little 
chapter,  and  the  play. 

XTORMA  TALMADGE  is  on  the  stage! 
■*-^      The  veteran  star  has  joined   the  road 
company  of  the  Zoe  Akins  stage  comedy  hit, 
"The  Greeks  Had  a  Word  for  It'' — which  show 
is  a  raging  hit  on  Broadway. 

Norma  saw  and  coveted  it  when  she  was  in 
New  York  last  fall.  Now  she  will  not  only 
make  a  picture  of  it,  but  is  trouping  in  the 
play  itself!     And  she  loves  it.     Incidentally, 

18 


United  Artists  gave  up  $100,000  for  the  picture 
rights.     Hits  come  high! 

XT7EDDINGS  are  dynamite— at  'east  in  the 
W  magazine  business. 

Charles  Karrell  and  Virginia  Valli  were  all  set 
to  wed  when  Charlie  finished  "The  Man  Who 
Came  Hack."  That  happened  late  one  Satur- 
day night.  Next  day  he  started  work  on  his 
next,  "Squadrons." 

Hardly  time  for  a  nap,  let  alone  a  wedding, 
between  cameras!  So  there  we  all  were — 
Charlie,  Virginia  and  the  rest  of  us. 

But  the  wedding's  still  on — no  doubt  long 
ere  you  read  these.  Unless,  of  course,  Charlie 
never  gets  time  off  to  wed  the  lovely  Virginia. 
Oh,  wirra,  wirra! 

THEY  all  go  Hollywood!  One 
of  the  African  natives  brought 
over  by  Van  Dyke  for  "Trader  Horn" 
was  caught  in  the  act  of  wearing  a 
beret. 

A  yf  EXICO  CITY  was  in  a  frenzy  not  long 
■"•"■•■ago.  The  report  flew  through  the  town 
that  Ramon  Novarro  had  shot  Harold  Lloyd 
dead!  Nobody  knew  how  the  weird  yarn  start- 
ed. The  story  had  it  that  Harold  had  insulted 
the  Mexican  flag  while  making  a  picture,  and 
that  Ramon,  his  nationality  all  aroused,  had 
let  him  have  it — bang!  It  took  quite  a  time  to 
squelch  the  silly  story. 

Oddly  enough,  both  boys  are  great  Mexico 
City  pets — Ramon  for  obvious  reasons  and 
Lloyd  because  his  comedies  simply  slay  the 
Mexicanos.  In  fact,  Harold  is  the  only  actor 
who  rates  a  pet  name.  They  call  him"Delga- 
dillo,"  which  is  Mexican  slang  for  what  cor- 
responds to  our  "Skinny." 

WE  all  remember  how  the  lovely  and 
stage-famous  Ina  Claire  burned  when 
Jack  Gilbert  got  all  the  headlines  at  the  time 
of  their  marriage.     But  the  good  stories  are 


just  coming  out.  Walter  Winchell  relates  it  in 
the  New   York  Mirror. 

"How  does  it  feel  to  be  married  to  a  star?" 
asked  a  Hollywood  chatter  writer,  after  the 
ceremony. 

Ina  froze  her — and  when  Ina  freezes  'em,- 
friends,  they  stay  friz  for  weeks. 

"Why,"  asked  Ina,  "don't  you  ask  Mr. 
Gilbert?" 

SH! — but   keep   an    eye   on   Jack 
Oakie  and  Mary  Brian.     They're 
going  places  together. 

Mary  hasn't  looked  so  happy  since 
Rudy  Vallee  took  the  grand  crush  to 
her  while  Hollywooding. 

TT'S  smart  to  have  a  baby.  Remember  the 
-*■  days  when  the  birth  of  a  child  would  be 
regarded  as  any  movie  star's  most  embarrassing 
moment?  Poor  baby  would  be  locked  up  in  a 
sound-proof  nursery  and  swaddled  in  secrecy! 

At  last  babies  are  fashionable.  The  stars 
may  have  them,  take  them  out  for  an  airing, 
pose  them  for  photographers.  The  old  notion 
that  the  fans  would  be  shocked  has  been 
discredited. 

The  Norma  Shearer  fans  were  actually  de- 
lighted by  the  appearance  of  Irving  Thalberg, 
Jr.  Nancy  Carroll's  little  daughter  hasn't 
diluted  her  popularity.  The  women  haven't 
registered  a  single  pang  of  jealousy  over  three 
matinee  idols  who  recently  suffered  the  acute 
agonies  of  a  vigil  in  the  maternity  hospital. 
John  Barrymore,  Robert  Montgomery,  Chester 
Morris,  real  pets  of  the  matinee  trade,  have 
dared  to  become  fathers. 

Babies  have  become  so  fashionable  in  Holly- 
wood that  even  the  ingenues  may  have  them, 
provided,  of  course,  they  take  the  precaution 
of  marrying. 

■DUSTER  KEATON  almost  killed  Lew  Cody 
■'-'recently. 
Lew  has  several  very  precious  vases  in  his 


HHj 

1 

19L .  L/^                 W 

§r 

«fc^                                »a^k 

^r1                         _^B      ^^f         *i  A 

M 

k*  -mk                             ^Sk  If 

Cream  or  lemon?  And  do  have  another  smidgin  of  toast !  Marion  Davies 
revived  the  merry  old  custom  of  five  o'clock  tea  on  the  set  when  she  was 
making  "The  Bachelor  Father"  for  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  release. 
From  left  to  right,  Director  Bob  Leonard,  Ralph  Forbes,  C.  Aubrey  Smith 
and  the  fair  hostess 


II  o  1  1  y  w  o  o  d    S  t  a  t  i  o  n  —  N-E-W-S 


He'i   crazj    about    them.     They're 
museum  pit 

Unknown  to  Lew,  Kenton  and  em  t  plaster- 
ol  paria  copies  <>f  the  vases  made  and  substi- 
tuted them  for  the  originals.  Ih.it  night, 
Buster  called  on  Lew, 

Lew,  that's  a  swell  vase,"  he  said, 
i        I.;  up  one.    Clumsily  he  dropped  it.     It 
I  up. 
Lew  almosl  fainted. 

ished,  Buster  stepped  luck  and  upset  the 
other  vase. 

i  rued. 
'I  hm  they  told  him  the  truth. 
Just  jolly  Hollywood  pranking. 

Nwn  c  IRROLL  celebrated  her  twenty- 
fourth  birthday  by  rehearsing  a  Ions 
with   Phillips  Holmes  for  "Stolen   Heaven." 
the  final  take  they  let  her  go  home  and 
c.it  birthday  cake  with  husband  Jack  Kirk  lam  I 
and  four  year  old  Patricia. 

\.i  ii  |  and  Patricia  created  quite  ■  stir  on 

Upper  Broadway  in  New  York  one  sunny  Sun- 
day afternoon  this  winter.  A  crowd  of  admir- 
iio  had  recognized  Nancy  gathered  about 
them  as  Patricia  inspected  toys  in  a  shop 
window. 

Everyone  asked  Nancy  if  the  little  figure  in 

red  was  her  daughter,  and  Nancy  introduced 
them  all  to  "little  Robin  Redbreast. "  Patricia's 
brown  eyes  danced  and  her  head  bobbed  with 
lent. 

She  doesn't  look  a  bit  likelier  famous  mother, 
but  she's  evidently  going  to  be  a  beauty  in  her 
own  right 

\    disgruntled    newspaper    reporter    who 

wanted  to  publicise  Patricia,  in  spite  of  her 
parents'  elTorts  to  shield  her  from  the  spot- 
light, once  threatened  to  spread  the  word  that 
Patricia  was  disfigured,  or  crippled,  or  imbe- 
cile, unless  she  was  allowed  to  see  and  talk  to 
the  child  and  write  a  story  about  her.  Hut  one 
look  at  merry  eyed,  sturdy  little  Patricia 
would  set  all  doubts  at  n 


\A  \\  '  SL  \  I  I  I  i:\    ■.  ,    an  extra  girl  In  the 
'■'■'•Paramount  picture,  "Laughter.      On  the 

troll. 

ped.    "  Why,  you  look  lib 

V.a    \|.,',    i     Matt  | '       land  in  fur  " v' 
I  leaven  "     I  hat  mi 
pl  u  e  during  tho 
and  cs  i  the 

iboul    Naii'  '   and 

ii  jure.    Her  rid  hail 

way.     Her  fac  e  anil  featip  :rdly 

The  job  of  "standing"  might  be  tiring  f>T 

,   who  has  to  do  thl 

having  the  time  of  her  life     it  means  steady 
work  until  the  pi<  ture  i>  <  ompleted,  and  maybe 

lots  more  work  after  that. 

\\  711. i.  ROGERS  plays  polo.    He  pli 
W  win.    He's  one  of  the  wildest  playi 

any  polo  fii 

So    FOX   officials   are    v,  and.      They'n 
that  some  day,  right  in  the  middle  of  a  produi  - 
tion,  he'll  get  a  broken  something  or  other.     So 

they  ask  him,  regularly,  please  not  to  play  polo 
during  production. 

It's  not  in  the  con!  I 

So  W  ill  plays  polo. 
An  obliging  chap! 

HERE'S  another  Scotch  story  and 
they're]    telling    it    on    Chester 
Conklin. 

Al  Boasberg  and  his  wife  passed 
the  funny  man's  house  one  evening. 
"There's  a  light  on,"  said  Mrs.  B. 
"He  must  be  at  home." 

"If  there's  a  light  on,"  said  Al, 
"he's  entertaining." 

ONE  of  the  finest  manifestations  of  modesty 
Hollywood    has    seen — and    it   doesn't    see 
many! — was     Marjorie     Rambeau's     curtain 


Extra!  Ronald  Colman  buys  a  member  of  his  supporting  cast  in  "The 
Devil  to  Pay"!  George,  this  wire-haired  terrier,  played  a  charming 
scene  with  Ronnie  in  his  new  picture,  and  nearly  stole  the  sequence. 
Ronnie  liked  the  pup,  and  decided  he  had  better  buy  the  rival  and  retire 
him  from  the  screen 


Divorced  again !  Robert  Ames 
has  just  heard  the  judge  pro- 
nounce him  free  from  his  third 
wife,  Helen  Muriel  Oakes,  who 
said  they  didn't  get  on.  We  hear 
Bob  is  now  going  about  with  a 
thrice-divorced  charmer 


appearance  at  the  premiere  of  "Minand  Bill." 

narjorie  i-  ■  trou]  -ie  on  the 

And  in  "  Min  and  Bill  "  she  cave  such  a 

grand    performance    that    she's    likely    to   be 

Starr  -alt. 

Vet  in  her  curtain  speech,  she  said  only  that 

"  It  was  a  wonderful  break  for  me  to  be  allowed 

to  play  in  a  picture  with  such  great  artists  as 

Mr.  Beery  and  Miss  Dressier." 


R 


ADIO-KEITH-ORrHF.l'M.    maker  of 
Radio  Pictures,  has  lx)ught  Pathc! 
This  means  studio,  stock,  lock,  barrel,  good 

[  TLE ASE  TURN  TO  PACE  78  ] 


Her  uncounted  thousands  of  fans  have  risen 
as  one  mighty  army  and  shouted  "One  Mickey 
Mouse,  one  Shakespeare,  one  Joe  Doakes,  one 
Garbo!"  Frenzied  by  the  thought  that  anyone 
dares,  even  by  act  of  Providence,  to  resemble 
Greta  Garbo,  they  are  bombarding  this 
editorial  trench  with  heavy  shells  filled  with 
short,  sharp  little  words  that  bite  and  sting. 


Garbo 


vs. 


By   Leonard  Hall 


IS  that  thunder,  mother,  that  is  shaking  the 
plaster  down  into  my  bean  soup? 
No,  my  child,  it  is  the  guns! 
The  battle  of  Greta  Garbo  and  Marlene 
Dietrich — one    of    the    most    ferocious    in    the 
history  of  the  screen — is  now  raging. 

And  nobody  started  it! 

Heaven  knows  Garbo  didn't.  She's  been  toil- 
ing on  the  sets  and  retreating  to  her  guarded 
castle  in  the  Santa  Monica  hills.  As  far  as  we 
know,  the  gorgeous  Dietrich,  to  her,  is  still  an 
unconfirmed  rumor. 

Dietrich  didn't.  She's  a  jolly  German  girl, 
even  more  beautiful  than  sin,  who  was  lured  to 
this  country,  trained  and  groomed,  and  pushed 
before  the  camera.  Paramount  didn't  fire  the 
first  gun — on  the  contrary,  it  fought  for  peace  by 
demanding  that  their  Miss  Dietrich  and  Metro's 
Miss  Garbo  never  be  mentioned  in  the  same  ten 
breaths.  Metro,  of  course,  merely  sat  out  in 
Culver  City,  smiling  the  smile  of  the  Sphinx. 

Yet  the  battle  that  no  one  started  screams  and 
thunders  across  this  fair  republic. 

There  is  an  old  and  toothless  gag  to  the  effect 
that  it  takes  two  sides  to  make  a  fight.  This  is 
strictly  the  old  hooey,  or,  in  the  original  Latin, 
the  phonus  bollonus. 

IN  the  case  of  any  argument,  bickering  or 
brannigan  in  which  the  name  of  Greta  Garbo 
appears,  only  one  side  is  sufficient  to  make  a 
battle  of  major  proportions.  That,  of  course, 
is  the  side  of  the  Garbo-maniacs,  to  whom  the 
Beautiful  Swede  is  only  one  hop,  skip  and  jump 
from  downright  divinity — and  sometimes  not 
even  that. 

The  history  of  the  first  skirmishes  of  the 
Garbo-Dietrich  battle  is  brief  and  pointed. 

Director  Josef  Von  Sternberg  "discovered," — 
for  the  American  screen — and  brought  to  this 
country,  a  very  beautiful  German  musical  comedy 
and  screen  actress  named  Marlene  Dietrich.  The 
moment  her  first  pictures  appeared  in  the  Ameri- 
can press,  there  was  a  flurry.  She  bore  a  distinct 
resemblance,  from  some  angles,  to  the  current 
queen,  Greta  Garbo.  She  also  resembled,  in 
profile,  the  late  Jeanne  Eagles. 

The  Garbo-maniacs,  raving  mad  in  their 
idolatry,  issued  from  their  caves  and  began 
growling. 

In  due  time  Miss  Dietrich's  first  American- 
made  talkie  appeared.  "Morocco"  was  a  labor 
of  love  and  justification  on  the  part  of  Director 


Dietrich 


50 


The  battle  is  on! 
Into  the  dugouts! 
A  v e  r b a 1  barrage 
thunders  over  the 
charms  and  talents 
of  Paramo  tint's  rising 
star  and  the  goddess 
of  M-G-M's  studio 


Von  Sternberg.  With  infinite  pains  he  had 
trained,  rehearsed  and  projected  his  German  find. 
No  question  about  it  Miss  Dietrich  showed 
definite  Garboesque  symptoms,  at  least  in  the 
minds  of  the  Garbo  fans.  The  critics  remarked 
on  it.  The  low  growls  of  the  Garbo  devotees 
became  shrieks,   then   roars. 

THE  beautiful  German  girl,  new  to  the  mad- 
nesses of  Hollywood,  lonely  for  her  husband 
and  little  daughter  in  the  Fatherland,  just  trying 
to  make  good  for  God,  for  country,  for  Von  Stern- 
berg, and  for  Marlene,  became  the  focal  point 
of  a  vocal  and  epistolary  storm  that  is  wrecking 
bridge  games,  tea  fights,  family  gatherings  and 
erstwhile  happy  American  homes  all  over  the 
nation. 

\  couple  of  months  ago  Protopi  \v  stepped 

into  a  hornets'   nest. 

We  printed  an  informative  story  about  Miss 
Dietrich.  It  was  entitled  "She  Threatens 
Garbo's  Throne."  It  described  the  Prussian 
Peacherino,  and  definitely  hinted  that  a  potential 
rival  to  the  solitary  Swede  was  now  on  deck 
another  beauty,  bursting  with  a  similar  allure. 
possessing  more  than  a  dash  oi  screen  mystery, 
and  with  a  talent  both  wide  and  deep. 

Bang!     Sumter  was  tired  on!      The  Maine  had 

i  sunk!     The  fatal  shot  was  heard  again  at 

ijevo!     Sheridan   was  at    least    thirty   miles 

away!     And  the  author.  Katherine  Albert,  ran 

for  her  private  cyclone  cellar. 

The  Garbo-maniacs,  to  whom  any  mention  of 
an  actress  in  the  same  wheeze  is  sheer  blasphemy, 
seized  their  pens,  and  clattered  their  typewriters 
like  so  many  machine  guns. 

HE  \R  some  shots  from  the  barrage  that  has 
fallen  on  this  trembling  editorial  dugout  in 

the  past  month: 

From  M.  1..  K..  of  Detroit.  Mich.: 

"Die  woman  to  compete  with  Greta   Garbo 

will  not  be  born!    Garbo  to  us  is  not  a  woman — 

she  is  a  goddess.     There   will   be  one   Garbo. 

Down  with  the  imitators!     Vive  la  Garbo!-' 
From  Miss  J.  D.  W..  of  Chicago,  111.: 
"Garbo's    subjects   are  legion.      If  she   ever 

descends    from    the    throne,    that    throne,    like 

Valentino's,  will  remain  vacant!     Long  live  the 

queen.  Miss  Greta  Garbo!'' 

"A  Garbo-Maniac,"  situate  in  Meridian,  Miss., 

takes  her  tiery  pen  in  hand: 

"This  Marlene       [  please  turn  to  page  106  ] 


f 


>* 


And  here's  the  unwitting,  or  innocent,  cause 
of  the  great  Garbo-Dietrich  war  now  raging — 
the  beautiful  Marlene  herself.  Do  vou  think 
she  looks  like  Garbo — that  she's  trying  to  re- 
semble Garbo  the  Great?  True,  she's  blonde, 
beautiful,  mysterious  and  alluring.  But  >o  are 
several  others.  We  vote  that  Marlene  Dietrich 
is  Marlene  Dietrich,  and  no  copv  of  anvone! 


51 


THE   NATIONAL   GUIDE   TO   MOTION    PICTURES 


tV 


THE  DEVIL  TO  PAY— United  Artists-Sam  Goldwyn 


RONNIE  COLMAN  breezes  hilariously  through  a  giggle- 
some  story  about  the  big  moment  in  a  delightful  wast- 
rel's love-life.  It's  all  a  tasty  souffle  of  lightheartedness, 
warmly  spiced  with  sophistication,  garnished  with  sparkling 
lines  and  situations,  and  served  with  the  proposition  that 
life  simply  isn't  to  be  taken  seriously! 

It's  Colman's  picture  throughout,  and  what  that  man 
does  with  his  opportunities!  Loretta  Young  is  lovely,  and 
Myrna  Loy  is  caloric.  And  what  a  style  show!  The  rest  of 
the  cast  is  excellent,  but  as  much  as  anybody,  Author 
Frederick  Lonsdale  and  Director  George  Fitzmaurice  rate 
congratulations.    So  does  Fred  Kerr  as  the  grumpy  dad. 

One  member  of  the  cast  doesn't  get  deserved  screen  credit 
— a  wire-haired  terrier  that  steals  the  early  sequences. 


* 


THE  CRIMINAL  CODE— Columbia 


JUST  because  you've  seen  a  lot  of  prison  pictures  don't 
think  you  can  afford  to  pass  this  one  up.  If  you  do,  you'll 
miss  some  of  the  finest  acting,  directing  and  dialogue  of  this 
or  any  other  movie  season. 

You  perhaps  already  know  the  stirring  Martin  Flavin 
play.  The  plot  is  not  the  main  attraction.  It's  the  terrific 
"  feel "  of  prison  life  that  you  get,  the  great  surge  of  emotion 
behind  it  all — the  strange  code  that  exists  both  in  and  out  of 
prison  walls. 

Walter  Huston  has  never  done  a  better  job  than  as  the  dis- 
trict attorney  and,  later,  the  warden.  Phillips  Holmes  is  per- 
fect as  the  boy.  Constance  Cummings,  a  new  face,  is  nice  as 
the  girl.  The  whole  thing  is  too  intense,  too  vital  for  tears. 
But  it's  something  you'll  never  forget. 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

<ua.  u.ia.  fat.  orr.)    M 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


* 


THE  ROYAL  FAMILY  OF  BROADWAY— 

Paramount 


IF  there  are  still  doubters  as  to  the  talkies,  coax  or  drag 
them  to  see  this  brilliantly  done  picture.  Use  force,  if 
necessary!  As  a  stage  play,  "The  Royal  Family"  was  the 
joy  of  its  season.  But — and  you'll  believe  this  when  you 
see  it — it's  far  greater  as  a  talking  picture. 

For  the  camera  follows  the  mad  Cavendishes,  royal  family 
of  the  theater.  No  longer  is  this  comedy  by  George  Kauf- 
man and  Edna  Ferber  confined  to  the  three  cramping  walls 
of  a  stage.    It  talks — and  how  it  moves! 

"The  Royal  Family  of  Broadway"  is  not,  as  you  might 
think,  a  costume  piece,  but  a  vivid,  funny,  sad  story  of  the 
great  Cavendish  tribe  of  actors — three  generations  of  a 
mighty  family,  with  a  historic  past  and  a  great  future.  Gos- 
sips have  connected  it  with  the  Barrymore  family,  and  the 
Barrymores  and  Cavendishes  touch  at  many  points. 

They  all  try  to  leave  the  stage,  poor  dears — but  they 
never  do.  Not  even  young  love  can  keep  the  daughter  of  the 
tribe  away  from  the  footlights.  And  they  die  in  their  dress- 
ing rooms,  being  true  troupers  in  the  great  tradition. 

Ina  Claire  is  simply  magnificent  as  Julie,  and  Fredric 
March  does  the  work  of  his  life  as  the  mad  Tony,  who  went 
into  pictures.  Fine  work,  too,  by  Henrietta  Crosman,  Mary 
Brian  and  Charles  Starrett. 

This  picture  has  everything. 


SAVES    VOIR    PICTURE    TIME    AND    MONEY 


The  Best   Pictures  of  the  Month 

'i  hi:  ROYAL  FAMILY  OP  BROADWAY 
nil    Di  VIL'S  BAT!  \i  ION         THE  Dl  VIL  TO  PAY 
llll    <  RIMINA1    <  OD1  llll    BL1  I    ANG1  I 

nil   GRJ  \i    mi  adow  <  imakkon 

The  Best   Performances  of  the  Month 

In.i  Claire  in  "The  Royal  Family  o(  Broadway" 
Predric  March  in  "The  Royal  Family  ol  Broadway" 

•t-r  Vail  m  "The  Devil's  Battalion" 
Loretta  Young  in  "The  Deri!  s  Battalioo" 

Ronald  Colman  in  "The  Devil  to  Pay" 

Walter  Huston  in  "The  Criminal  Code" 

Phillips  Holmes  in  "The  Criminal  I 

Emil  Jannings  in  "The  Blue  Angel" 

Marlcne  Dutnch  in  "The  Blue  Angel" 

Eleanor  Boardman  in  "The  Great  Meadow" 

Greta  Garbo  in  "Inspiration" 

Douglas  Fairbanks  in  "Reaching  for  the  Moon" 

Ruth  Chatterton  in  "The  Right  to  I.o\,e" 

George  Bancroft  in  "Scandal  Sheet" 

Marion  Davies  in  "The  Bachelor  Father" 

C.  Aubrey  Smith  in  "The  Bachelor  Father" 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  reviewed  will  be  found  on  page  138 


it 


THE  DEVIL'S  BATTALIOS—  Radio  Pictures 


HERE'S  i  -pectacular  talking  picture  that's  also  a  Ml  )V- 
ING  picture.      That's  what  we've  all  been  wanting, 
isn't  it? 

This  is  really  "  Beau  Ideal,"  sequel  to  "  Beau  Geste."  that 
grand  old  heart-twister  of  the  bygone  silent  days.  "  Beau 
Ideal "  is  based  on  that  same  powerful  theme  of  a  great,  self 
sacrificing  love  between  men.  It  tells  about  the  same- 
characters — using  in  some  cases  even  the  same  actors  who 
played  in  "Beau  Geste."  It  is  set  in  the  same  soul  bli.-ter 
ing  locale — the  desert  Africa  of  the  Foreign  Legion.  But 
DOW  it  lives  with  voice,  and  is  aglow  with  the  great  advance 
in  technique  that  the  screen  has  achieved. 

Brenon  is  a  director  who  knows  mass-movement.  He's 
given  us  battle  scenes  that  are  superior  in  their  field  to  any- 
thing that's  been  done  before.  His  desert  scenes  are  marvels 
of  photography  and  direction.  The  man  knows  PICTURE, 
and  how  to  tell  a  story  with  it. 

A  bit  the  less  great  in  that  he  forces  his  characters  to  talk 
in  the  stilted  style  that  went  out  years  ago,  it's  still  a  great 
picture. 

Lester  Vail  debuts  as  a  screen  hero  and  does  it  splendidly. 
Loretta  Young  does  a  truly  magnificent  piece  of  work  in  the 
short  role  she  has.  Ralph  Forbes,  Don  Alvarado,  Otto 
Matiessen  stand  out. 


* 


THE  BLUE  ASGEL-UFA-Paramount 


II  'S  Emil  Tannings  first  talkie  in  English.  It  i-  the  picture 
that  brought  Marlene  Dietrich  to  the  fans  of  the  world. 
It  was  directed  by  the  able  Josef  Von  Sternberg  And  it's 
a  knockout! 

It'.-,  the  simple  story  of  a  pompous  German  high  school 
professor  who  falls  in  love  with  a  beautiful,  I>,k1  singer  in  a 

low  cabaret,  and  .-ink*  first  to  degradation,  ami  then  to 
death.  Plenty  of  types  and  atmosphere,  and  one  Bweel  tune. 
Tannings  plays  all  his  old  parts  again  plays  them  mag- 
aiftcently,  as  only  Jannings  can.  He  doesn't  talk  much,  and 
then  very  heavily.  Dietri<  h  is  beautiful  and  fine,  and  I 
only  like  Dietrich.  A  .-ombre  story,  badly  recorded  in  ' 
many     but  a  picture  that  will  fascii  by  the  sheer 

power  and  glory  of  it-  t 


it 


THE  GREAT   ML  LDOW      U-G-M 


THIS  is  an  epic.     But  don't  be  alarmed.    It  is  an  intimate 
epic  and  you're  more  interested   in   learning  what   will 
happen  to  the  people  in  the  story  |  the  book  was  Her) 

than  to  the  tiny  caravan  that  treks  from  "Yirginy"  to  the 
wilderness  of  "  Kenturk  5  >u  have  both  the  sweep  of  a 
great  spectacle  on  wide  film  and  the  beauty  of  an  exciting 
yarn. 

er   before    has    Ilea:  man    been   so   lovely. 

Never  before  has  she  given  such  a  t>erformance.  making 
that  pioneer  woman  possess  youth  and  dti  -     1     anor 

has  first  place  but  the  rest  of  that  long  and  famous  cast  arc 
perfect.  There  are  Johnnie  Mack  Brown,  Lucille  La  Verne, 
Gavin  Gordon,  Billy  Bakewell  and  others  You'll  be  thrilled 
by  the  beauty,  charm  and  grandeur  of  this  one. 


Here's   Your    Monthly   Shopping    List! 


CIMARRON— 
Radio  Pictures 


INSPIRATION 
—M-G-M 


THE  talkie  version  of  Edna  Ferber's  thrilling  novel  of  pioneer 
days  in  Oklahoma  is  by  far  the  finest  thing  Radio  Pictures 
and  Richard  Dix  have  ever  done.  The  picture  carries  all  the 
sweep  and  power  of  Ferber's  best  seller.  Not  only  is  the  land 
rush  sequence  one  of  the  most  exciting  ever  shot,  but  Due's 
portrayal  of  Yancey  Cravat  gives  him  new  screen  rating  as  one 
of  our  finest  actors.    One  of  the  year's  best  pictures. 


GARBO  was  never  lovelier  nor  more  youthful  than  she  is  in 
this  very  modern  version  of  the  old,  old  story,  "Sappho," 
with  Greta  as  the  French  siren  against  a  Paris  background.  As 
you  know,  the  fable  of  an  indiscreet  girl  who  pays  too  dearly. 
Robert  Montgomery  seems  miscast  opposite.  Lewis  Stone, 
Marjorie  Rambeau  and  Beryl  Mercer  lend  good  support,  and 
Clarence  Brown's  direction  is  neat,  as  always. 


REACHING 
FOR  THE 
MOON— 
United  Artists 


THE  ROYAL 

BED— 

Radio  Pictures 


IF  anybody  but  Doug  Fairbanks  played  in  this,  you  might  not 
like  it.  But  Doug,  with  the  vitality  of  a  kid,  leaps  merrily 
through  a  dizzy  hodge-podge  of  gags  good  and  bad,  old  and  new. 
He  plays  a  mad,  bounding  Babbitt  who  makes  and  loses  for- 
tunes between  reels.  Bebe  Daniels,  gone  beautiful  and  blonde, 
is  opposite,  and  Edward  Everett  Horton  and  Claude  Allister 
hand  laughs.     Written  by  Irving  Berlin,  but  no  songs. 


LOWELL  SHERMAX  again  directs  himself  in  a  yarn  about 
the  intimate  moments  of  romantic  royalty  that  makes  you 
leave  the  theater  in  a  glow.  The  plot's  smart,  the  dialogue 
charming  and  the  acting  simply  grand.  Lowell's  the  shy  king. 
Mary  Astor  makes  a  gorgeous  princess,  and  Nance  O'Xeil  is 
every  inch  a  publicity-seeking  queen.  Made  from  "The 
Queen's  Husband,"  by  Robert  E.  Sherwood.    Fine  talkie. 


RANGO— 
Paramount 


THE  RIGHT 
TO  LOVE— 
Paramount 


INTO  the  jungles  of  Sumatra  a  genius  named  Ernest  Schoed- 
sack  took  a  camera  and  great  patience.  He  brought  back  as 
engrossing  a  movie  as  has  ever  been  made.  It  tells  a  simple 
story  of  tragedy  and  retribution  in  the  lives  of  jungle  beasts. 
In  sequences,  you'll  howl  with  laughter.  But  we'll  warrant  that 
you'll  also  sob  with  sorrow.  "  Rango  "  is  utterly,  magnificently 
different  from  everything  else. 


SEE  this  lovely  thing,  by  all  means,  but  don't  go  to  have  fun. 
It  is  a  gem  of  a  picture.  Poignant,  beautiful,  sincere.  Chat- 
terton— oh,  what  is  there  to  say  about  Ruth  when  she  is  all  an 
actress  should  be  as  the  mother  who  knew  love  (for  so  brief  a 
time)  and  wanted  her  daughter  to  know  it,  too!  Ruth  plays 
both  parts  with  a  realism  that  makes  the  characterizations 
vivid.    Superb  direction. 


54 


The   First   and    Best   Ta  1  k  i e    Reviews! 


THE 
PRINCESS 

\M>    Nil 

ri  i  mhi  R 

tnx 


I'm  mm, tint 


THERE  was  .1  lonely  little  princess  in  the  Balkans.  That's 
Maureen  O'Sullivan.  And  there  was  B  son  of  an  American 
millionaire  disguised  as  a  plumbing  inspector.  That's  Charles 
Farrell.  Blooie  Romance!  A  nice  little  Cinderella  yarn  that 
patters  along  pleasantly  and  harmlessly.  The  two  leads  are 
nice,  and  they  are  ably  aided  by  Berl  Roach,  I. mien  Prival  and 
11.  B.  Warner.      Maureen  does  very  well. 


SUPERLATIVELY  fine  newspaper  story,  wherein  <■■ 
Bancroft,  ;h  the  managing  editor  who  remains  true  to  the 

traditions    of    the    trade    though    it    COStS    him    everything 
BUperb.       Tremendous    suspense,     nerve  tingling    drama    and 
noteworthy  faithfulness  to  the  truth  of  newspapering.     And 
not  ONE  drunken  reporter  I    K.iv  Francis  and  Cfive  Brool 

fine  work.     Splendid  dialogue  and  exemplary  direi  tion. 


■Jill 

H  \<  HI  I  OR 

/  \iiif.r— 

M-G-M 


o\/.l    s  IP5 

It  ORK 

I'm  iimiiuril 


ASPRK  IHlLYj  amusing,  sophisticated  comedy  with  Marion 
Davies  in  excellent  form  as  the  grand  comedienne  she  is. 

If  you  saw  the  play  you  11  be  disappointed  insomeof  the  chan 
But   whether  you  did  or  didn't  you'll  get  a  million  laughs. 
('    Aubrey  Smith,  who  created   the  role,  is  absolutely  price- 
It--  as  the  bachelor  father.       Ralph  Forbes  is  the  leading  man. 
You'll  he  sorry  if  you  don't  see  it. 


THANKS  to  Leon  Krrol,  of  the  rubber  legs,  this  is  an  < 
tionally  funny  and  pleasant  little  romantic  comedy.    Aided 
by  Stewart  Erwin,  Krrol  captures  the  picture  and  makes  it  a 
real  laughing  matter.     I, eon  plays  a  comical  crook.     The  n 
pretty  much  romance,  with  Richard  Arlen  and  Mary  Briai 
the  love  intere.-t.     Both  do  nice  work,  but  the  picture  IS  in  the 
pocket  of  old  Dr.  Krrol. 


HOOK.  LINE 
AM)  S1SKER 
—  Radio 
Pictures 


i  \- 
MISTRl  ss 

II  m  n<  i  % 


IDIOTS  Wheeler  and  Woolsey  perform  their  fooleries  in  a 
moribund  hotel,  which  they  try  to  resuscitate  in  behalf  of 
Love-Interest  Dorothy  Lee.  Concentrated  machine  gun  fire  of 
rival  gangs  adds  to  the  piquancy  of  the  proceedings.  Gargan- 
tuan Jobyna  Howland  and  Absurd  Oaf  Hugh  Herbert  give  the 
two  W's  a  hard  run  for  comedy  honors.  If  you  don't  laugh 
hugely  at  this,  you're  diaphragm-bound! 


AM)  here  are  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hebe  Daniels — er,  beg  pardon! 
It's  the  Hen  Lyonscs!-  playing  the  romantic  leads  in  one 
of  these  ultra-modern  love  things.  Fairly  faithful  to  the  book, 
too.  Hebe  and  Hen  are  satisfactorily  amatory  where  and  when 
required,  and  Lewis  Stone  plays  with  customary  perfection. 
It's  really  a  delightfully  entertaining  picture,  and  there  are 
some  swell  clothes,  [  additional  reviews  on  page  1 1  x  j 


oo 


"Merton"    himself. 
Richard    Cromwell, 
just  twenty,  who  was 
pushed  into  the  spotlight 
when  he  appeared  in  the 
talkie,  "Tol'able  David" 


By 

Paul 
J a rv i s 


A  Real  '"Mem  ( m  of  the  Movies" 


H 


E  always  knew  it  was  to  happen.    He  isn't 
surprised.      But   is   he   thrilled!     Blushes_ 
mount  to  his  pink,  cheeks.     Tears  flood  his 
blue  eyes.    He  is  bewildered  with  the  wonder 
He  is  a  really,  truly,  honest-to-goodness  movie 


of  it. 
star! 

Thus  has  the  incredibly  naive  "Merton  of  the  Movies" 
actually  come  to  life  in  the  ornamental  person  of  Richard 
Cromwell,  Columbia's  overnight  star  of   "Tol'able   David." 

Surely  you  remember  the  fictional  Merton,  who  prayed  God 
to  make  him  a  good  movie  actor,  and  then  never  quite  under- 
stood how  it  happened. 

That's  Richard.  He  didn't  actually  ask  God.  But  he  had 
the  feeling  that  some  Monumental  Casting  Agent,  call  it 
"  Destiny,"  was  pulling  for  him  all  the  time.  And  he  never  lost 
faith  that  it  would  all  come  out  some  day  as  he  had  dreamed. 

Richard  is  twenty.  That  makes  him  older  than  Davey  Lee. 
But  his  artlessness  makes  little  Davey  seem  as  blase  as  Lowell 
Sherman.  There's  nothing  blase  about  Richard.  Movie  star- 
dom is  too  terribly  new  and  too  thrilling.  He's  quite  sure  it  was 
Fate.  How  could  any  cynic  call  it  accident  when  these  are 
the  facts! 

Columbia  was  simply  desperate  for  a  boy  to  play  "Tol'able 
David."  Every  juvenile  in  Hollywood  had  been  tested.  All 
had  failed  to  meet  director  John  Blystone's  strict  requirements 
of  boyishness,  idealism,  sensitiveness,  freshness.  Young  Roy 
Radabaugh,  who  had  been  making  lamp  shades,  running  a  gift 
shoppe,  painting  arty  bathrooms,  knew  that  Fate  intended  him 
to  play  "  Tol'able  David  "  and  applied  for  the  role.  The  casting 
director's  office  was  filled  with  youths  who  had  the  same  ambi- 
tion. When  the  casting  director  looked  them  over  and  sent 
them  away,  Roy  Radabaugh  hid  on  a  dark  stage  and  cried.  A 
kindly  office  girl  found  him  there.  He  became  Richard  Crom- 
well, the  "find"  who  was  to  play  David. 

RICHARD  continued  to  cry  through  the  filming  of  the  pic- 
ture. He  cried  when  he  thought  he'd  done  something 
clumsy.  He  cried  when  the  studio  people  were  kind  to  him. 
He  cried  during  the  big  emotional  scene  of  "Tol'able  David." 
And  lo,  and  behold,  he  was  a  great  "emotional  actor." 

Columbia  itself  didn't  know  how  great  until  three  monthslater, 

56 


when  the  critics  saw  the  crying  scene.   The  critics 

raved,  and  suddenly  the  wheels  of  Publicity  began  to 

move  toward  the  conversion  of  the  bewildered  Richard 

into  a  national  movie  idol. 

The  picture  was  to  open  in  New  York.     Columbia 

decided  that  it  might  be  a  good  stunt  to  bring  the  youngster 

here  to  see  it.    He  was  on  the  train  when  the  sudden  decision 

was  made  to  introduce  him  in  a  series  of  personal  appearances. 

Hasty  wires.    Richard  had  no  suitable  clothes.    Kansas  City 

haberdashers  met  the  train  with  new  suits,  a  Tuxedo,  a  hat. 

Photographers  met  the  train  in  New  York.     An  entourage  of 

chaperons  and  press  agents  suddenly  appeared.     A  swanky 

suite  in  a  flashy  new  hotel  was  engaged.    A  radio  speech  on  the 

wonders  of  New  York  was  written.    (Richard  almost  cried  from 

fright  when  he  delivered  it.) 

HE  was  lugged  to  see  the  last  acts  of  shows,  the  first  half  of 
hockey  matches,  fie  was  driven  down  Broadway  in  a 
gaudy  roadster.  He  was  taken  to  meet  the  Mayor,  to  lunch  at 
business  men's  clubs.  The  press  was  invited  to  hear  him  say 
that  he  thought  New  York  was  wonderful. 

His  naivete  was  enthusiastically  acclaimed  as  "  so  refreshing." 
His  artlessness  was  "quaint."  His  bewilderment  was  "simply 
cunning."  Before  he  could  get  spots  on  his  new  Tuxedo  and  tired 
rings  under  his  eyes,  he  was  dispatched  to  Washington  for  fur- 
ther exhibits — an  overnight  movie  star! 

What's  to  be  done  with  him  now  is  Columbia's  business. 
Richard  lives  at  home  with  his  mother,  two  little  sisters  and  a 
brother.  He  has  a  contract  which  assures  escape  from  the  art 
shoppe.  He  is  a  Garbo  fan  and  hopes  that  Fate  will  come 
through  again  and  cast  him  opposite  his  idol. 

lie  has  the  play  picked  out.  "Fata  Morgana,"  a  drama 
about  a  country  boy's  seduction  by  his  city  cousin!  Richard's 
choice  of  the  play  may  seem  to  belie  his  artlessness.  But  really 
it  clinches  it.  Imagine  anybody  snatching  a  cherub  from  the 
clouds!  And  that's  what  it  would  be  to  subject  such  a  sensi- 
tive, naive,  astonished  new  movie  star  to  the  rude  shock  of 
adult  emotions. 

Richard  has  had  his  trip  to  Heaven.  How  long  he  remains 
there  is  up  to  the  Destiny  in  which  he  has  such  a  profound  and 
touching  belief. 


"Ik 

Tomboy  of 
the  Talkies 


S. 


There's  a  Winnie  Lightner  who  socks 
over  the  hotsy-totsy  songs — and  then 
there's  a  Winnie  you'll  read  ahout  here! 

By  Rosali)id  Shepard 


HE'S  the  tomboy  of  the  talkies! 

The  red-headed  whirlwind,  and 

I  the  gay  baby  who  makes  old  men 

act  childish!     Wild  Winnie — she  always  wows  'em.    Just 
the  same  in  real  life  as  in  reel  life.  .  .  . 

her  press  agent.    And  it's  quite  true  -with  reservations. 

She's  more  than  that,  this  Winnie  Lightner  the  song-plugger, 
the  wise-cracker.  She's  something  that  heretofore  Greta 
Garbo,  Jetta  Goudal,  and  maybe  Clara  Bow  have  had  the  first 
claim  to.  She's  another  Least  Understood  Woman  in  Holly- 
wood! 

When  the  average  publicity  writer  can  find  the  slightest  ex- 
cuse for  calling  his  client  a  "dual  personality,"  he's  perfectly 
happy.  I  don't  know  just  why  nobody  has  stumbled  upon  the 
none-too-obvious  fact  that  Winnie  Lightner  was  practically 
made  to  fit  the  description,  unless  it  might  be  for  the  perfectly 
true  reason  that  Winnie  doesn't  want  it  known.  For  that's  one 
of  the  most  endearing  things  about  her — the  hiding  of  her  real 
self,  not  from  secretiveness  nor  snobbishness,  but  from  sheer 
dislike  of  hurting  people. 

Painted  with  a  broad  brush  and  the  gaudiest  of  colors,  the 
picture  that  is  Winnie  Lightner  on  the  screen  tallies  identically 
with  that  which  she  gives  to  her  friends.  No  fine  shadings,  no 
subtleties  of  humor  creep  into  this  broadly  depicted  character 
while  the  world  is  looking  on.  True  to  her  reputation — and  her 
reputation  is  well  founded — Winnie  is  outwardly  always 
the  same. 

WITNESS  her  arrival  at  the  studio  in  the  morning.  A  flash 
of  green  coupe,  a  loudly  honked  horn,  and  the  Winnie  is 
here!  Her  voice,  asin  the  talkies,  isloud.  Sheshouts.  Shesmiles. 
She  slaps  you  on  the  back.  If  she  complains,  she  does  that  loudly, 
too,  for  whining  is  not  one  of  her  sins.  To  Winnie  Lightner, 
her  director,  her  co-workers,  the  vast  crowd  of  extras,  are  her 
public,  just  as  much  as  that  vague  audience  in  a  darkened 
theater.  And  she  loves  them — makes  herself  an  adaptable 
person  for  their  comfort. 

Her  day's  work  over,  the  last  wise-crack  recorded,  Winnie 
jumps  into  her  car,  skids  around  a  corner  on  two  wheels,  and 
disappears.     Then  only  it  is  that  some  mysterious  change 
takes  place,  so  that  if  you  could  see  her  you  would  immedi- 
ately recognize  that  there  is  a  "different"  Winnie. 

The  tomboy  of  the  talkies  is  no  more.     In  her  place  ± 

sits  a  sad-eyed  woman,   twenty-nine  years  old  and  j 


Above  is  the  Winking  Winnie  Lightner 
who  sings  the  hot  numbers.  But  down 
here  in  the  corner  is  the  other  Winnie — 
the  home-loving  girl  who  likes  her 
hearth  and  her  big  dog,  Bim 


looking  it.     She  drives  slowly,  making 
little  effort  to  shake  off  the  depression 
that  always  settles  upon  her  when  she 
is  first  alone.     For  she  has  memories. 

On  the  face  of  things,  it  would  seem  that  this  successful 
comedienne  had  everything  her  heart  could  desire.     Hut  OD 
looking  back,  one  checks  up  and  realizes  that  Winnie  may  be 
right  when  she  declares  she  has  missed  the  two  things  that 
should  be  every  woman's  lot — happiness  and  protection. 
Her  mother  died  when  she  was  born. 

Girlhood,  for  Winnie,  was  full  of  poverty,  grief, 
memories  of  rough  places  on  life's  path.    There  fol- 
lowed the  grueling  life  of  the  vaudeville  circuit. 
Love,  and  the  hope  of  permanent  happiness, 
that  somehow  never  quite  materialized.  Three 
broken  marriages.     A  baby  boy,  who  must 
be  left  to  nurses  while  his  mama  plugs 
songs. 

There's  a  wistful  Winnie,  doomed 
by  her  type  and  talents  to  be  a  come- 
dienne, when  her  heart  of  hearts 
longs  for   the  admiration,   love 
and    shelter   given    her    more 
feminine    sister.     Hating  ^m 

crowds    who     stare    and 
point,     she    shuns    the 
formal     first     nights, 
sneaking    into     the 
theater    the    next 
night  after  the 

PLEASE 
Tt"K\"  TO 

PAGE 
130 


You'll  see  a  new,  richer, 
more  mature  Eleanor 
Boardman  playing  a 
memorable  role  with 
John  Mack  Brown  in 
'The  Great  Meadow" 


Inhere  has  This 


Artist 


Been  Hiding: 


Tl 


? 


By    Katherine    Albert 


fHE  wide  film  spread  itself  across  the  screen  like  a  giant  pennant 
flung  in  the  breeze.  A  hush  fell  over  the  theater — the  sort  of  hush 
that  always  comes  just  before  the  projection  of  a  preview. 

"  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  presents  'The  Great  Meadow.'" 
That's  the  message  you  read.  There  was  applause  as  usual.  There  always 
is  for  a  preview.    The  credit  list  faded  and  the  characters  arrived. 

The  scene  showed  the  interior  of  a  home  in  Virginia  in  1777.  The 
father  spoke  first  and  while  he  was  speaking  you  caught  a  glimpse  of  the 
daughter,  sitting  at  a  spinning  wheel.  She  looked  at  him  with  clear, 
straight  eyes  and  then  she  spoke  in  a  rich,  full,  lovely  voice  and  every 
one  in  that  audience  sat  forward  on  his  chair,  that  he  might  not  miss  any 
of  the  beauty  of  Eleanor  Boardman. 

One  woman  murmured,  "If  that's  what  motherhood  does  for  you,  I'm 
going  to  have  a  couple  of  children. " 

It  isn't  as  if  Eleanor  were  not  beautiful  before.  She  has  always  been. 
But  suddenly  she  seemed  to  come  alive,  and  all  during  the  unfolding  of 
that  picture  you  followed  the  magnificent  performance  of  that  clear  eyed, 
clear  minded  pioneer  woman  avidly.  It  is  an  intelligent  performance, 
not  a  flashing,  brilliant,  sparkling  portrayal,  but  rather  one  that  slowly, 
surely,  definitely  impresses  itself  upon  your  consciousness. 

I've  always  had  the  feeling  that  Eleanor  never  gave  everything  she 
had  to  the  screen.  Perhaps  this  was  because  I'd  known  her  too  long, 
known  too  well  the  richness  of  the  woman  herself.  I  remember  only  that 
I  invariably  came  away  from  her  pictures  a  little  disappointed.  The 
camera  seemed  unable  to  make  anything  except  ripples  upon  the  deep 
well  of  her  character.  I'd  known  her,  you  see,  for  what  she  is — a  sort  of 
valkyrie  of  a  woman  with  a  resplendent  soul. 

SHE  has  the  most  honest  eyes  I've  ever  known.  You  couldn't  tell  a  lie 
to  Eleanor  Boardman.  Eleanor  has,  I'm  sure,  never  told  a  lie.  It's  a 
habit  that  has  gotten  her  into  no  end  of  trouble. 

I  remember  once  asking  her  for  her  views  on  marriage.  She  gave  them 
to  me  without  quibbling.  '"But  you  can't  say  that  in  print."  I  insisted. 
"Those  things  are  too  advanced,  too  radical.  The  public  wouldn't  stand 
that  from  you. " 

"Then  don't  say  anything, "  Eleanor  flared.  "I  won't  have  you  print- 
ing something  that  I  don't  believe.  If  the  public  doesn't  care  to  know 
me  as  I  am,  then  don't  let  them  know  me  at  all. " 

When  she  was  under  contract  to  M-G-M,  every  interview  published 
meant  that  Eleanor  was  taken  to  task  by  the  executives.  For  if  you  ask 
her  a  question  she  believes  it  her  duty  to  answer  you  honestly.  Else  why 
would  you  have  asked  the  question?  You  may  only  say,  "How  do  you 
like  my  new  hat?''  Eleanor  will  look  the  hat  over  carefully,  give  it  her 
undivided  attention  and  tell  you  frankly  what  she  really  thinks.  You 
may  not  want  to  hear  it.    But  there  it  is. 

She  is  really  one  of  the  most  basic  people  I've  ever  known.  And  I've 
always  felt  it  strange  that  such  a  gentle,  pastel,  patrician  face — all  fair  skin, 
blonde  hair  and  blue  eyes — should  house  such  an  elemental  spirit.  Eleanor 
makes  no  compromise  with  life.    She  is  as  she  is.    Take  her  or  leave  her. 

Eleanor  goes  deep.  The  roots  of  her  are  firmly  implanted  and,  although 
I  know  nothing  of  her  ancestors,  I've  always  had  the  feeling  that  many 
bloods  must  have  mingled  to  produce  her.  She  seems  to  have  taken  the 
fundamental  qualities  of  many  peoples. 

I  saw  her  once  just  after  their  new  home  [  please  turn  to  page  104  ] 


58 


A  FTER  years  of  screen  endeavor — after  marriage,  motherhood  and  retirement,  this 
-*  *girl  has  found  herself  as  an  actress!  In  "The  Great  Meadow,"  from  which  this  is  a 
scene,  you'll  see  a  new  and  vivid  Eleanor  Boardman,  with  a  new  richness  in  her  work  and 
a  new  beauty  glowing  about  her.  And  now  Eleanor,  in  addition  to  being  Mrs.  King 
Vidor,  wants  to  go  right  on  acting! 


lwo  Smartly  Dressed  yjirls 

Kay  and  Anita 


Whether  for  sports,  after- 
noon or  evening  wear,  we 
can  always  look  to  Holly 
wood  for  individual  and  au- 
thentic  designs.  The  skirt 
of  Kay  Johnson's  tweed  suit 
is  made  with  wide  pleats, 
left  unpressed.  A  novel  and 
graceful  effect 


Kay's  all  dressed  up  for  a  cozy  after- 
noon  tea  with  a  few  intimates.  When 
she  slips  off  the  gold-embroidered, 
maroon  velvet  jacket,  it  reveals  a  wide 
trousered  one-piece  garment  of  char- 
treuse satin,  designed  for  comfortable 
lounging 


Smart  girl,  this  Anita  Page!  She  knows 
how  a  trig,  knitted  suit  brings  out 
every  lovely  curve.  Deep  purple  is  the 
color  of  suit  and  swagger  beret.  The 
tucked  design,  besides  being  decorative, 
molds  the  hips  snugly  and  tapers  the 
cuffs  to  a  flattering  line  at  the  wrist 


From  the  tip-tilted,  saucy 
brim  of  her  dark  green  hat  to 
the  matching  green  of  her 
suede  slippers,  there's  not  a 
false  note  in  the  costume 
Anita  wears.  The  stunning 
frock  is  of  dark  green  crepe, 
patterned  with  gold  nail 
heads 


OHE  was  a  pretty  musical  comedy  prima  donna,  singing  the  conventional 
^"I  Love  You"  songs,  and  praying  the  show  would  be  a  hit.  It  seldom  was, 
somehow.  Then  she  went  to  Hollywood,  and  under  the  magic  wand  of  Old 
Master  Lubitsch  became  one  of  the  best  comediennes  in  pictures.  Read 
Jeanette  MacDonald's  story  across  the  way 


Pri 


nma 


i) 


onna  and 


"the  Old  Man' 


How    a    great    director    made    a    fine    comedienne 
of    a    golden    girl    from    musical    comedy 


Tills  is  the  story  of  how  The  old  Man  made  a  Red- 
I  leaded  Prima  Donna  into  one  of  the  best  comediennes 
on  the  American  screen. 

For  human  interest,  the  yarn  has  few  equals     even  in 
the  dizzy,  fizzing  Hollywood  of  the  talkie  era. 

Of  cou  >e,  The  <  >ld  Man  isn't  really  old.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
he's  just  nudging  forty — gently.  Hut  Hollywood,  where  he  has 
lered  his  cinematic  genius  for  nearly  a  decade,  is  apt  to 
call  anyone  old  who  has  left  the  Torrid  Twenties  for  the  Thirsty 
Thirties.  And,  too.  the  Prima  Donna's  hair  is  as  gold  as  it  is 
red.     Hut  we'll  let  the  overture  stand. 

Jeanette  MacDonald  -for  that  indeed,  reader,  is  our  hero- 
ine's name'  had  brought  to  Broadway  youth,  beauty  and  a 
pleasant  soprano  voice.  All  these  commodities  are  common  on 
Cuckoo  Canyon.  As  fast  as  they  are  expended,  fresh  trainloads 
arrive  from  Dodge  City  and 
Wapakoneta,  and  the  show 
goes  on. 

Moreover,  Jeanette's  story 
quite  the  usual  one.  She 
had  been  the  cutest,  prettiest 
tot  on  the  block.  She  had  sung 
'"Come,  little  leaves.'  sail  the 
Wind,  one  day,"  for  the  neigh- 
bors when  she  was  three  or 
four.  She  took  singing  lessons, 
and  maybe  "'elocution."  I 
suspect  that  she  even  sang  in  a 
choir.  This  could  lead  only  to 
one  thing.  She  packed  her 
youth,  loveliness  and  other  hat 
in  her  first  valise  and  set  out  to 
conquer  the  theater  with  her 
face,  figure  and  voice. 


Al  1ER  the  usual  ups,  downs 
and  dead  levels,. she  became 
a  Broadway  prima  donna. 
That  is  to  say.  she  was  hired  to 
sing  duets  with  the  leading  tenor 
in  various  musical  comedies 
songs  about  T  loved  you  in 
Junetime — now  it  is  croon - 
time."  and  so  on.  She  made 
musical  comedy  love  —losing 
the  boy  friend  at  the  end  of  the 
first  act.  and  getting  him  back 
at   the    close    of    the    s< 

These  things  are  as  solidly 
patterned  as  so  many  sewing 
machines.  Jeanette  was  com- 
petent, but  she  got  nowhere  in 
particular,  save  from  road  to 
York  and  back  again. 

I  myself  sat  under  her  sooth- 
ing ministrations  several  times. 
There  were''  Yes,  Yes.  Yvette." 
and  "Sunny  Days,"  to  name 
two.     But   her   shows   had   a 


Leonard   Hall 


The  Prima  Donna  and  "The  Old  Man"  play  a 

tune.    Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Ernst  Lubitsch 

between  scenes  of  "The  Love  Parade" 


habit  of  dying  under  her.  Whenever  a  prima  donna  "friend' 
tumbled  into  a  success,  -die  took  pains  to  meet  Jeanette  ami 
purr.   "My  dear,    I   do  wisfa  you  could  get  a  hit!"     < 1  old 

kitty  kitty  Broad. 

ANT)  Jeanette  smiled  prettily.     This  could  have  gone  on  for- 
ever, or  until  Jeanette's  youth  and  beauty  were  gone.   Then 
a  new  shipment  would  have  arrived  from  I'uKa,  and  the  girl  with 
the  red-gold  hair  would  be  hopelessly  climbing  the  m 
stairs     and  steep  they  are. 

At  this  moment   late.   Kismet,  Providence.    Luck.  Monk 
Business   -you  name  it! — stepped  into  the  life    and  tim< 
our  heroine. 

Electrical  engineers,    fooling  around   with   their    mysterious 
gadgets,  hail  rigged  up  the  talkies.      The  great  gold   rush  from 

Broadway  toHoUywood  ws 

/..j  lirJIr  MacDonald,  as  did  a 
couple  of  hundred  other  singing 
girls,  had  a  test  made.  I' 
then  stuck  up  on  a  shelf  behind 
a  jar  of  pickled  peaches,  and 
the  show  went  on. 

And  so  enters  our  hero.  The 
Old  Man — a  short,  stocky, 
(•ermanic  gentleman  with  a 
shr  a  shrewder  head 

and  a  large  brown  cigar.  In 
short,  Ernst  Lubitsch  direc- 
tor extraordinary,  tamer  of 
Pola  Negri,  a  very  giant  among 
the  Lilliputians  and  Singer 
•f  Holly  v. 

Till'.  Old   Mi  in  a 

quandary,  and  have 
ever  been  in  a  good,  deep,  mud- 
dy quandary?  It's  no  fun  —I'd 
almost  rather  be  on  the  horns 
of  a  dilemma,  and  I  do  hate  a 
dilemma  horn. 

Herr  Lubitsch  was  looking 
for  a  leading  woman  for  this 
French  meteor.  Chevalier.  The 
picture  was  to  lie  a  gay.  frothy, 
phony-kingdom  business. "  The 
e  Parade."  He'd  tried 
girl  after  girl,  and  it  was  no 
dice. 

At  last,  eye-wean.-,  he  hurled 
himself  into  the  offices  of  Para- 
mount. 

''Show  me  some  old  t 
he    groaned.  then    I'll 

mm  head  blow 

Jeanette  MacDonald's  test 
was  taken  from  the  shelf, 
dusted,  and  shown  to  The 
Old  Man.  That's  how  it  began. 

I  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  108  ] 


Hollywood's  Hundred 


In  a  story  about  Howard  Hughes,  Billie  Dove 
must  appear.  They  go  about  gaily  together,  there 
is  talk  of  a  marriage  when  Billie's  divorce  from 
Irvin  Willat  becomes  final  —  and  they  say  nothing ! 


ONCE  upon  a  time,  all  you  had  to  do  to  get  a  laugh  in 
Hollywood  was  to  sav: 
"Howard  Hughes." 
Immediately,  your  hearers  would  picture  the  awk- 
ward, gangling  lad  from  Texas,  barely  old  enough  to  vote,  who 
came  to  Hollywood  to  make  movies  with  his  late  papa's  hundred 
million  dollars. 

They'd  think,  in  those  days,  of  how  he  was  making  "Hell's 
Angels'' — putting  three  years  and  four  of  the  hundred  million 
into  it.  And,  with  just  the  slightest  bit  of  sympathy  for  the 
kid  who  was  being  so  royally  plucked,  they  roared  in  glee. 
Hollywood  thought  it  was  all  too  funny! 

But  those  days  are  gone  forever.  Young  Howard  Hughes 
has  stopped  being  Hollywood's  favorite  joke. 

For  one  thing,  "Hell's  Angels"  is  paying  him  back  his  four 
million  and  more  to  boot,  and  young  Hughes  is  sitting  back 
thumbing  his  nose  at  the  wisenkeimers  who  said  anyone  that 
spent  that  much  on  a  picture  was  goofy. 


By 
Ha  r  r  y    Lang 


For  another  thing,  Howard  Hughes  has  bought  "Queer 
People,"  that  best-seller  that  so  mercilessly  lampoons  many  of 
Hollywood's  foremost  figures,  and  may  make  a  moving  picture 
of  it!     Hollywood  can't  see  any  fun  in  that.     It's  too  scared! 

And  for  still  another  thing,  young  Hughes  has  been  doing,  is 
doing,  and  plans  to  do  things  inside  the  industry  with  his  hun- 
dred million  dollars.  And  even  Hollywood  can't  laugh  at  what 
a  hundred  million  dollars  can  do! 

IN  short,  instead  of  having  Hollywood  all  a-titter.  Hughes 
has  it  all  a-jitter!  All  worked  up  over  what  he's  going  to  do 
on  the  heels  of  "  Hell's  Angels"  and  what  he's  going  to  buy  next 
with  his  hundred  millions,  and  what  he's  going  to  do  with  and 
about  Billie  Dove.  .  .  . 

It  burns  Hollywood  to  a  crisp  that  Hughes  and  Billie  Dove, 
in  the  face  of  the  utmost  that  Hollywood  tongues  can  do.  go 
serenely  and  happily  about  everywhere  together  without  bother- 
ing to  make  the  slightest  reply  to  questions.  They  simply 
won't  tell  what  their  plans  are.    It's  nobody's  business. 

Ask  Billie  Dove,  and  she  answers  nothing. 

Ask  young  Hughes,  and  if  he  answers  at  all,  it's  to  tell  you 
to  go  to. 

They  seem  to  think  it's  all  their  own  business!  And  those 
who  wonder  whether  Hughes  is  ever  really  going  to  marry  the 
girl  will  simply  have  to  wait  until  this  coming  mid-year,  when 
Miss  Dove's  divorce  from  Irving  Willat,  the  director,  becomes 
final.  ' 

In  the  meantime,  they're  seen  everywhere  together.  Their 
romance  has  been  reported  in  every  film  publication  extant. 

There  are,  naturally,  reports  that  they  plan  to  be  married  the 
very  day  the  Dove  decree  is  finalized.  But  you've  got  to  go 
on  guessing.     To  everything,  they  both  remain  silent. 


64 


Million  Dollar  Kid 

The  joke  seems  to  be  on  those  who 
thought  Howard  Hughe  s  h  a  cl  only 
movie    a  m  b  i  t  i  o  n    a  n  cl    m  u  c  h    m  o  n  e  y 


"  What  are  your  plans  about  Mis>  Dove?"  I  asked  him  j>*>int- 
1>1. ink  the  other  day. 

"If  I'd  known  you  were  going  to  ask  about  that.*'  In-  snapped, 
"  I'd  never  have  seen  you!" 

So  we  talked  about  "  Hell's  Angels"  and  the  money  he  spent 
on  it,  and  the  men  who  died  during  its  making,  and  about 
"Queer  People"  and  what  he's  going  to  do  with  it. 

I  >o  yoil  think  '  Hell's  Angels'  was  worth  four  million  dol- 

was  "in-  din-.,  i  question. 
He  thought  for  many  long  moments,  and  coughed  a  bit  once 
or  twice. 

'   I  dunno."  he  said. 

"But  I'd  like  to  see  anybody  else  go  out  and  do  it  for  less," 
he  added,  after  a  little  more  thought.  He's  a  very  diffident 
youngster,  this  26  year-old  multi-millionaire.  Interviews 
embarrass  him  furiously. 

"All  this  question  of  what  constitutes  entertainment  value," 
he  went  on.  "is  so  indefinite.  Nobody  knows.  You  might 
make  a  good  picture  for  a  hell  of  a  lot  less  than  four  million — 
but  you  can't  duplicate  those  shots  in  '  Hell's  Angels'  for  less!" 

HE  began  to  lose  his  bashfulness  in  enthusiasm.     "Hell's 
Angels"  is  his  own  child — he  fathered  it.     He  thought  of 
the  idea,  the  story,  the  details.     He  directed  it  all  himself. 

''I  don't  give  a  hoot."  he  went  on,  "what  you  say  about  it. 

You  can  call  it  a  good  picture  or  a  bad  picture.     But  you  can't 

:t  isn't  the  most  spei  tacular  and  sensational  air  stuff  ever 

filmed.     We've  got  scenes  that  nobody  else  will  ever  duplicate. 

Hughes,  getting  all  the  time  more  enthusiastic,  told  details  of 


Hollywood's  richest  boy,  who  spent  $4,000,000 

on  "Hell's  Angels"  and  is  getting  it  back,  and 

who  may  film  the  best  seller,  "Queer  People," 

just  pour  le  sport-  Howard  Hughes 


its  making.      At   first,  he  revealed',  it   was  planned   to  cost  no 
more  than  S600,0<)0,  and  to  USC  about  a  dozen  DUU 

"  Hut  we  took  a  score  of  planes  to  Oakland  to  do  some  practic- 
ing, and  we  stuck  around,  and  it  began  to  run  into  dollars. 
said:  'Well,  we  gotta  get  some  shot  to  make  good  all  this 
money!1  So  I  got  a  lot  more  planes  and  we  got  that  shot  of 
fifty  planes  in  the  dog  tight.  You  know,  we  had  three  mid-air 
collisions — " 

"Yes,"  a  question  was  shot  in,  "and  what  about  thi 
men  that  were  killed?" 

Hughes  looked  mad.     Hughes  was  mid. 

"I  think  it's  an  outrage  that  anybody  says  four  men  were 
killed  in  'Hell's  Angels'!  he  snapped.  "Matter  of  fact,  only 
one  man  was  killed." 

That,  he  said  was  Phil  Jones,  the  mechanic,  who  died  when 
the  huge  bomber  used  in  the  picture  cracked,  after  its  pilot. 
"Daredevil  Al"  Wilson,  had  leaped  from  the  diving  machine 
with  his  parachute.  Jones,  apparently  unaware  that  Wilson 
had  bailed  out,  stayed  to  work  smoke-pots,  and  died  when  the 
plane  hit. 

There  was  a  great  deal  of  fuss  afterward.  The  original  plan 
had  been  to  "spin"  the  plane,  and  then  out  of  camera-range 
bring  it  out  safe  for  a  landing.  But  Wilson,  afterward,  said  the 
plane  couldn't  be  spun,  and  that  when  he  tried  it.  it  went  into 
a  dive  that  couldn't  be  stopped,      [please  turn  to  pace  123  ] 


Howard  Hughes  and  his  chief  cameraman  on  "Hell's 
Angels,"  Harry  Perry,  mapping  out  battle  plans  for 
the  great  aerial  "dog  fight"  in  the  picture.  Every 
move  of  fighting  planes  and  camera  ships  was  plotted 
carefully  on  a  blackboard 

65 


D 


ougs 


N 


Pi 


ew  r  icture 


Doug  Fairbanks'  idea  of  a 
busy  executive  with  a  few 
telephones.  We  suppose  the 
idea  is  that  there's  bound 
to  be  an  unbusy  number  on 
at  least  one  of  them.  Doug- 
las, with  Jack  Mulhall  and 
Helen  Jerome  Eddy,  in  a 
scene  from  "Reaching  for 
the  Moon,"  written  by  Ir- 
ving Berhn.  It's  the  first 
film  in  years  Doug  hasn't 
made  on  his  own 


Behold  Hollywood's  newest 
blonde!  Bebe  Daniels,  Doug's 
leading  woman  in  "Reaching  for 
the  Moon,"  will  startle  us  with 
light  hair,  after  all  these  years 


66 


IVlary  Makes  One  Jk)o! 


,*gjl 

rx 

Man-  Pickford,  in  tail  coat  and 
walking  cane,  doing  an  act  for 
the  camera  in  her  new  picture, 
"Kiki,"  directed  by  Sam  Taylor. 
Mary  is  supported  by  Reginald 
Denny,  Margaret  Livingston, 
and  Joseph  Cawthorn.  This  ver- 
sion of  the  story  shifts  the  locale 
from  Paris  to  New  York 


Time  cannot  wither,  nor  custom  stale,  the  in- 
finite variety  of  Man-  Pickford's  great  screen 
talent.  This  wistful  mite  in  the  over-sized 
pajamas,  looking  hopefully  up  at  Reginald 
Denny,  is  the  same  grand  little  woman  who 
has  been  delighting  and  captivating  picture 
fans  for  twenty  years.  It's  a  scene  from 
"Kiki,"  which  Mary  is  making  for  United 
Artists  and  not  as  her  own  production 


c}y»  a  t  Is  T h  is 


For  years  Mary  Pickford  ruled  the  hearts  and  box- 
offices  of  the  photoplay  world.  As  long  as  her  pic- 
tures made  fortunes,  she  was  queen.  But  "Co- 
quette" and  "The  Taming  of  the  Shrew"  were 
financial  duds.    The  stories  weren't  box-office ! 


ONE  star  in  Hollywood  can  do  exactly  as  she  pleases. 
She  can  work  when  she  wants  to,  have  any  story  her 
lonely  heart  desires,  pick  her  own  directors,  leading 
men,  and  the  very  carpenters  who  pound  the  sets  of 
her  pictures.  She  can  be  a  recluse  and  refuse  invitations  to 
visit  Pickfair.  She  can  snub  Will  Hays.  In  other  words,  she 
can  get  away  with  anything. 

She  is,  of  course,  the  one  and  only  Garbo. 
Does  she  get  away  with  it  because  she  is  Garbo?  No — and 
right  here  is  an  important  lesson  for  other  stars  and  starlets. 
She  gets  away  with  it  because  she  is  Box-Office,  one  of  the 
biggest  box-office  sensations  that  ever  hit  the  photoplay  world. 
The  moment  Garbo  becomes  less  potent  at  the  box-office,  she 
will  have  to  be  much  sweeter,  much  more  agreeable,  or  go  on 
the  ash-heap.  And  when  she  ceases  to  be  box-office  altogether, 
even  though  she  is  still  Garbo,  even  though  she  is  just  lovely  to 
everybody  and  sings  ring-around-the-rosy  at  the  studio  pep 
meetings,  she  will  go  on  the  ash-heap  regardless. 

Across  her  path  falls  the  shadow  of  a  rising  star — a  German 
girl  named  Marlene  Dietrich.  Great  beauty,  highly  magnetized 
personality,  much  talent.  If  Garbo  places  a  correct  valuation 
on  that  great  ogre,  Box-Office,  she  must  tread  softly,  work  hard. 
Thrones  are  unstable  in  Hollywood,  where  they  are  built  on 
the  shifting  sands  of  public  favor. 

68 


By    Ruth     W a  t e r  b  u  r y 


For  it  isn't  personality  or  beauty  or  brains  that  rule  Holly- 
wood. It  is  box-office  pulling  power — that,  and  no  more.  The 
star  who  gets  the  gate  at  the  theaters  will  never  get  the  gate  at 
the  studio.  But  the  star  or  director  or  song  writer  or  scenarist 
who  doesn't,  will.  Box-office  is  the  one  thing  in  Hollywood 
everybody  talks,  thinks  and  works  for.  Yet  nobody  knows 
positively  what  it  is  or  what  it  takes.  The  man  who  could  be 
sure  even  eighty  per  cent  of  the  time  could  be  a  billionaire  in 
less  time  than  it  takes  to  write  the  zeros. 

I  hadn't  any  realization  of  what  I  was  up  against  when  I 
started  out  to  get  this  yarn.  I  thought  it  was  just  a  matter  of 
asking  questions  of  the  right  people.  It  ended  with  them  asking 
more  questions  than  they  answered. 

NOW,  in  any  other  business  people  know  where  they  stand. 
Meat  packers  can  estimate  down  to  a  cow  how  many  beef- 
steaks we'll  eat  in  the  next  year.  The  cosmetic  boys  know- 
just  how  many  pounds  of  powder  the  cheeks  of  the  nation's 
fairest  will  absorb.    But  the  poor  movie  producer! 

He  has  certain  theaters  he  is  contracted  to  keep  supplied  with 
features.  He  has  expensive  staffs  and  elaborate  overhead.  Into 
the  most  ordinary  movie  he  must  invest  a  quarter  of  a  million 
dollars  before  he  gets  a  cent  in  return.  To  insure  any  of  that 
investment  he  must  hire  the  best  stars,  directors,  writers  and 
salesmen  his  money  will  buy. 

A  picture  goes  into  work.  The  daily  rushes  look  grand.  The 
picture  is  assembled  and  goes  out  to  the  theater — and  flops. 
Why?    Nobody  knows. 

It  just  wasn't  box-office.  It  just  wasn't  what  the  public 
wanted. 


"Box-Office"? 


Everybody  in  Hollywood  talks  about  it  — 
N  o  b  o  d  y  understands  it  —  But  it 
absolutely    rules    the    screen     world! 


Take  Mary  Duncan,  a  beautiful  girl  and  a  fine 
actress.  Before  she  went  West  for  Fox,  she  had  an 
amazing  career  on  the  Broadway  stage:  1  01  started 
her  out  under  the  direction  of  Murnau  in  "lour 
Devils."  The  whole  studio  went  mad  over  her  work 
in  that  film.  When  the  twenty-four  sheets  were 
printed,  Mary  was  featured  over  Janet  C.avnor. 

The  fans  saw  Miss  Duncan  anil  didn't  want  her. 
By  the  tens  of  thousands  they  didn't  want  her.  box 
took  her  name  down  from  the  lights  and  put  Janet's 
Up,  CUt  down  Mary's  seenes  and  padded  J  '.net's. 
The  box-office  statements  improved  immediately. 

Came  "  The  River"  and  City  Girl,"  two  more 
Duncan  pictures.  Lovely  Mary  enchanted  inter- 
viewers, knocked  studio  officials  for  a  loop.  "'The 
River"  and  "  City  Oirl"  had  Charlie  Farrcll  as  lead- 
ing man,  but  even  Charlie  didn't  help.  Forced  runs 
in  big  cities  didn't  help.  "City  Girl"  lost  more  than 
half  a  million.  Everybody  at  Fox's  still  liked  Mary. 
They  still  think  she's  a  personality  and  an  actress. 
But  she's  not  "box-office" — yet.  She's  started  a 
new  Hollywood  career  with  other  companies. 

A  year  ago  Jack  (iilbert  was  just  about  as  powerful 
•  Garbo  clicked  in  talkies  and  (iilbert 


One  girl  who  can  do  almost  anything  she  wants  and  get 
away  with  it  — Greta  Garbo.  If  she  cries  for  the  moon, 
Metro  does  its  best  to  get  it.  Why?  Because  her  name 
before  a  theater  means  a  flood  of  gold.  Here  she  is  with 
Robert  Montgomery  in  "Inspiration" 

didn't.  Jack's  last  pictures  have  been  dud-.  He's  petting  other 
chances,  because  he  is  a  fine  actor  and  a  marvelous  personality, 
and  becau>e  he  has  an  iron-bound  million  dollar  contract  with 
M  G  M.  But  there's  no  use  pretending  the  producers  regard 
him  through  rose-colored  glasses  these  days.  In  some  places 
over  the  country— even  in  Hollywood:  — W  ally  Beery  was  billed 
over  him  in  "  Way  For  a  Sailor"    What  a  blow  to  a  star! 

The  same  is  true  of  Mary  Fickford.    I  doubt  that  there  is  an 
unhappier  girl  in  Hollywood  than  Mary.    She  has  her  fortune, 

she  has  her  lovely  home.  She 
has  had  fame  and  adulation 
for  years.  But  the  cold  breath 
Failure  blows  much  too  close 
to  her  now,  because  of  stories 
that  haven't  pleased  her  fans. 
Mary  is.  as  always,  a  great 
little  trouper. 

"Coquette"   made  almost 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE    LAO] 


What  happens  when  a  great 
star  slips  from  high  box-office 
estate.  Wallace  Beery  heavily- 
billed  over  John  Gilbert  on  a 
Hollywood  billboard.  You  see, 
big  Wally  means  plenty  box- 
office  sugar  these  days 


on 


Meet  the  Folks  Who  Make 


A    GREAT  location  shot  of  an  Oklahoma  street  for  "  Cimarron,"  with 

every  detail  of  a  picture  company  shooting  shown  clearly.    This 

picture  was  taken  on  the  Radio  Pictures  ranch,  where  the  outdoor  shots 

for  the  Edna  Eerber  story  were  made.    A  key  to  the  myriad  details  of 

this  fascinating  picture: 

1. — The  set  itself — perfectly  constructed  buildings,  if  you  view  them 
from  the  exterior.  But  get  inside,  and  you  see  it's  just  a  false  front.  In 
this  picture,  this  is  the  Bixby  Hotel  in  Osage,  Okla.,  but  actually,  it's  a 
couple  o'  hundred  dollars'  worth  of  lumber,  15  miles  from  Hollywood. 

2. — Reflectors.  Brilliantly  polished  sheets  of  tin,  so  placed  as  to 
bathe  the  actors  in  a  reflected  glory,  and  make  the  cameraman's  work  a 
little  easier. 

3. — The  humble  "grip."  Movie  sets  are  just  infested  with  grips. 
But  they're  necessary.  They're  the  boys  of  all  trades  who  run  around 
with  hammers,  scowls,  and  yeses  for  the  director.  They  do  everything 
nobody  else  can  do  according  to  union  rules. 

4. — Here  is  Richard  Dix,  living  herein  the  part  of  Yancey  Cravat  as 
he  appears  between  shots,  being  the  star,  he  stalks  in  solitary  splendor 
about  the  set,  observing  and  being  observed  until  somebody  tells  him 
to  do  some  acting. 

10 


5. — This  is  a  script  girl.  A  script  girl  is  the  young 
lady  who  does  a  lot  of  mysterious  things  with  notebooks, 
shorthand,  manuscript  and  such,  making  a  record  of 
everything  that's  shot,  and  how,  so  that  scenes  which 
follow  one  another  on  the  screen,  but  may  be  shot  many 
days  apart,  are  not  inconsistent  in  detail. 

6. — This  half-naked  young  man  is  one  of  the  electrical 
crew.  On  the  hot  days  they  shot  "  Cimarron  "  on  loca- 
tion, most  of  the  electrical  crew,  who  handled  the  hot 
lights,  stripped  to  the  waist. 

7. — Extras.     They're  more  ubiquitous  than  grips! 
Extras  are  the  people  who  get  S7.50  a  day  to  play  anything  from 
gutter-bums  to  millionaires.    Here  they're  pioneers  of  the  far  West 
You  can  pick  'em  out,  dressed  as  everything  from  Methodist  Sunday 
School  teachers  in  hoop  skirts  and  bustles,  to  teamsters  and  Indians. 

8. — The  gentleman  with  the  white  pants,  gray  sweater  and  beret  is 
Wesley  Ruggles,  director  of  "Cimarron."  In  this  particular  picture, 
he  is  partly  obscured  by  an  extra,  which  goes  to  show  that  a  camera  is 
no  respecter  of  dollar  signs. 

9. — By  their  megaphones  you  may  know  them.  Assistant  directors. 
When  they're  not  doing  anything  else,  which  is  most  of  the  time,  they're 


a  Talkie  "On  Location" 


running  around  with  megaphones,  through  which,  every  now  and  then, 
they  exclaim,  "Yes,  Mister  Ruggles." 

10. — This  is  a  "1km.  microphone."  Developed  by  Radio  Pictures,  it 
replaces  the  usual  studio  microphone  for  big  shots.  It  can  he  focused 
to  pick  up  certain  noises  right  out  of  the  midst  of  any  babble.  Built 
like  a  retlector,  with  the  microphone  in  the  center.  The  reflector 
converges  the  sound  waves  into  the  microphone. 

11 — Here  is  the  camera  platform,  from  which,  in  this  case,  three 
cameras  will  shoot  the  action  of  the  next  scene.  Look  shaqi,  and  you 
can  see  the  three  tripods.  The  cameramen  have  umbrellas  to  keep  the 
lenses  of  the  cameras  shaded  so  the  sun  won't  make  funny  spots  in 
the  picture. 

!-■ — These  lights  are  used  even  in  the  brightest  sun.  The  sun  shines 
from  but  one  direction,  and  were  it  used  alone,  without  reflectors  anil 
these  lights,  the  light-and-shade  contrast  would  Ik-  bad  for  photography. 
So  they  locus  these  bright  lights  on  the  shadowed  parts  of  the  players 
for  better  photography. 

13. — In  the  distance  are  the  tops  of  tents — cook  tents,  wardrobe 
hospital  tents,  dressing  tents,  etc. 

14. — One  of  the  manv  scaffoldings  built  for  anv  of  a  million  re 


ittery  of  h 
to  be  used  for  some  night  shots  to  be  made  in 
diagonal  Ixiard  is  a  rough  arrangement  so  the  lights  can  be  lifted  and 

lowered  on  pul! 

15. — More  lights  for  the  r  .  with  electricians  hooking  them 

up,  while  day  shooting  gixs  on,  in  preparation  for  the  night  shots. 

16. — These  are  not  car  tracks,  although  in  subsequent  "Cimarron" 
scenes  a  trolley  car  line  n  :  through  these  stre>  I 

however,  the  tracks  are  for  the  "dolly"  or  "perambulator"  on  which 
cameras  are  mounted  for  •traveling  sho<  e.  in  "Cimar- 

ron." a  traveling  shot  was  taken  which  showed  Buster  Collier,  as  a 
young  desperado,  riding  down  the  streets  of  this  town,  shooting  people 
right  and  left.  The  camera  on  its  rubber-tired  dolly  was  pulled  down 
these  tracks,  the  lens  trained  on  Buster,  who  followed,  shooting.  The 
trai  -  I  here  to  make  the  camera  action  smooth,  as  the  surface 

of  the  roadway  was  too  bumpy. 

Of  course,  there  are  scores  of  other  details — the  horses  and  the  an 
US  that  the  prop  department  scoured  C  for;  the  lumber 

piles  for  the  building  of  more  sets;  the  dozens  of  technicians  of  various 
kinds,  mingled  with  the  extras — and  in  the  hazy  distance,  15  miles 
away,  the  skyline  of  Hollywood. 


Xyeeling 
Around 


Director — "Now,  Joe,  this  is  the  scene  where  you  freeze  to 
death!" 


The  New  Pale 

Where  are  the  flaming  youths  we  used  to  know 
When  Colleen  Moore  first  taught  the  flaps  to  flame? 

Where  are  the  carbon  copies  of  La  Bow 
Whose  phony  "It"  put  modesty  to  shame? 

Gone  with  the  melted  snows  of  yesterday — 
Gone  with  the  bulging  bustle  and  the  beer! 

The  flappers  have  another  game  to  play — 
The  era  of  the  frozen  pan  is  here! 

They  pull  the  hair  back  from  their  empty  brows, 
They  shut  their  eyes,  and  even  seem  to  think! 

They  dress  as  frowsily  as  Ma  allows, 

And  when  they  walk,  they  either  stalk  or  slink. 

Ah,  Garbo,  when  you  slithered  on  the  screen 
You  started  more  than  heated  fan  debates! 

You  are  to  blame,  my  Scandihoovian  queen, 
For  several  million  ncar-sophisticates! 


No  Laughs,  No  Dice! 

Billie  Dove,  Hollywood  reports,  has  a  new  $65,000  chinchilla 
coat.  Now,  there's  a  little  girl  who  saves  her  money!  .  .  . 
Alice  White  is  said  to  have  asked  $6,000  a  week  for  vaudeville 
appearances,  and  just  let  me  catch  anyone  saying  that  actresses 
have  no  sense  of  humor!  .  .  .  The  Japanese  call  Mickey 
Mouse  "Miki  Kuchi."  Another  great  favorite  of  theirs  is 
Miki's  little  sister,  Hoochi.  .  .  .  Speaking  of  Mickey,  the  Ohio 
censors  recently  barred  a  Mickey  Mouse  cartoon  showing  a 
cow  reading  Elinor  Glyn's  "Three  Weeks."  Ohio  may  let  its 
human  convicts  rot  in  the  state  penitentiary  at  Columbus,  but 
the  great  Buckeye  State,  Mother  of  Presidents,  certainly  looks 
out  for  its  cows!  .  .  .  Mae  Murray  is  said  to  be  receiving 
$3,000  a  day  from  her  oil  property  in  California.  .  .  .  Harold 
Lloyd  has  turned  down  an  offer  of  $100,000  for  some  radio 
broadcasts.  He  probably  figures  he  wouldn't  go  over  so  well 
by  hanging  by  one  foot  from  a  studio  microphone.  .  .  .  Life's 
responsible  for  this:  "Won't  you  give  your  old  uncle  a  great 
big  kiss?"  "Yes,  Uncle — one  like  Greta  Garbo,  or  one  like 
Clara  Bow?"  .  .  .  And  Variety  tells  of  the  man  who  was  noted 
staying  entirely  away  from  his  wife  throughout  a  partv. 
"Family  trouble?"  asked  a  friend.  "Yes,"  said  the  husband. 
"We've  separated,  but  I  haven't  enough  money  to  leave  her!" 


The  Gag  of  the  Month  Club 

Louis  Sobol,  of  the  New  York  Evening  Graphic,  gets  this 
month's  award  for  this  one: 

He  tells  of  the  pretty  girl  who  was  making  goo-goo  eyes  at 
Joseph  Schildkraut  at  a  Hollywood  party. 

72 


"You  know,"  she  cooed,  "with  your  courtly  charm  and 
good  looks,  you  really  should  go  into  pictures!" 

"What?"  screamed  Joe,  who  was  at  the  time  something 
of  a  big  shot.    "Madame,  my  name  is  Joseph  Schildkraut!" 

The  minx  only  smiled. 

"Don't  worry  about  that,"  she  said.  "It's  easy  to  change 
it!" 


Second  Gag 

Our  own  Katherine  Albert  gets  credit  for  the  second 
prize  of  this  month. 

She  tells  the  story  of  the  arrival  of  Chester  Morris' — 
and  Mrs.  Morris' — recent  baby. 

Chester  was  discovered,  by  a  real  fan,  pacing  up  and 
down  the  corridors  of  the  hospital. 

The  talkie  addict  stared.     Then  he  asked  an  orderly — 

"Tell  me — do  you  think  Chester  Morris  is  acting  now?" 


Getting  Personal 

Jeanette  MacDonald  (so  booful)  is  wearing  a  new  10-carat 
square  cut  diamond  on  the  third  finger  of  her  left  hand.  .  . 
George  Arliss  first  came  to  America  as  a  member  of  Mrs. 
Patrick  Campbell's  company,  and  he  drew  down  S35  a  week —  | 
when  he  worked.  Arliss  is  one  of  the  greatest  stars  of  the  talk- 
ing screen,  and  Mrs.  Campbell,  not  long  ago,  played  a  tiny 
part  in  Fox's  "The  Dancers."  See-Saw!  .  .  .  Director  Hobart 
Henley  recently  got  a  nice  little  raise  from  Universal — $3,992 
a  week,  to  be  exact.  He  went  to  work  there  as  an  office  boy 
years  ago  at  S8  per.  .  .  .  George  Marion,  forever  to  be  remem- 
bered as  the  Old  Chris  of  "Anna  Christie"  on  stage  and  screen, 
recently  celebrated  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  his  entrance  into 
the  theater.  .  .  .  Virginia  Lee  Corbin,  once  a  child  actress, 
has  come  back  from  nine  months  of  study  abroad,  and  now 
sports  an  English  accent.  .  .  .  Colleen  Moore  has  been  resting 
at  a  sanitarium  at  Battle  Creek,  Mich.  .  .  .  Tom  Mix  may 
return  to  pictures  in  the  near  future.  .  .  .  Raymond  Griffith 
recently  broke  an  arm  playing  polo.  .  .  .  Grant  Withers  has 
just  bought  Wife  Loretta  Young  a  new  town  car.  Grant  is 
using  the  old  country  car.  .  .  .  Chester  and  Sue  Morris  (and 
the  new  baby)  have  been  vacationing  at  Arrowhead  Lake.  .  .  . 
Kay  Johnson  and  Charles  Bickford  are  through  at  Metro- 
Goidwyn-Mayer,  both  settling  their  contracts.  They  were 
dissatisfied  with  their  parts  at  Metro.  Bickford  may  retire,  as 
outside  interests  feed  him  plenty  jack.  .  .  .  Mae  Busch  is  now 
an  actor's  agent  in  Hollywood,  associated  with  J.  G.  Mayer 
.  .  .  Joe  E.  Brown  recently  took  a  flyer  on  the  stage,  playim 
the  lead  in  the  Coast  production  of  "Elmer  the  Great,"  basebal 
play  by  Ring  Lardner.  Walter  Huston  played  the  part  or 
Broadway  three  years  ago.  .  .  .  Twins  were  born  in  an  Oman* 
hospital  the  day  "Check  and  Double  Check"  opened  in  th< 
Nebraska  metropolis.  Right  the  first  time — they  were  namec, 
Amos  and  Andy! 


Photoplay  Maoaztni  rem  i.  ,  1931 


Cyacrif  {///'I  totmcA  a  nice  .////// 

...    MRS.    ALEXANDER      HAMILTON 


//„ 


(!/  bruit 


cl    uu   .  fafi' 
P.  QJucrfumtJllcra 


I 


/.K 


ran  a J  cri> 


With  lovely  lair  skin,  wide  hazel  eyes  and 
blonde  hair  full  of  golden  lights,  young  Mrs. 

itr  Hamilton,  bride  of  the  late  J. 
Pierpont  Morgan's  grandson,  a  grcat-great- 
grandson  of  Alexander  Hamilton,  is  a 
tremendous  favorite  in  society.    A 
Katherine  Comly,  of  Tuxedo  and  New  York, 
Mrs.  Hamilton  was  one  of  the  most  popular 
of  all  New  York's  debutantes 


In  tier  flower-filled  paneled 

sitting-room  high  above  distinguished  old 

Sutton  Place,  young  and  lovely  Mrs. 

Hamilton  talked  of  the  care  a  girl  should 

her  skin. 

"M>-.t  of  the  girls  I  know  load  outdoor 
lives  all  day."  she  told  us.  "In  summer 
they  are  swimming  and  playing  tennis  .  .  . 
in  winter  it's  skating  or  some  other  sport 
. . .  and  in  the  evening  it's  dining  or  danc- 
ing or  going  to  the  opera.  This  strenuous 
existence  makes  it  important  to  give  one's 
skin  care  to  keep  it  looking  as  nice  in  sun- 
shine as  by  candlelight. 

"I  have  used  Pond's  for  years,"  Mrs. 
Hamilton  said.  "In  fact,  it  is  che  only 
cold  cream  I  have  ever  used.  I  have  found 
that  there  is  nothing  like  Pond's  Method 
for  day-in,  day-out  care  of  the  skin. 

"The  Cleansing  Tissues  to  remove  the 
cream  are  splendid."  she  added,  with  her 
clear  eyes  intent.  "They  are  so  much  more 
absorbent  than  ordinary  tissues.  And  the 
new  peach-colored  ones  are  lovely 

"Everyone's  skin  needs  something  to 


tone  it  up  and  keep  the  pores  fine.  Pond  a 
Skin  Freshener  is  wonderful.  Most  New 
York  girls  use  very  little  make-up.  only 
lipstick  and  powder,  and  the  Skin  Fresh- 
ener helps  to  bring  out  a  natural  color. 

"It  is  a  mistake  to  put  powder  right  on 
the  skin  without  a  protecting  foundation," 
Mrs.  Hamilton  pointed  out  earnestly.  "It 
is  bound  to  clog  the  pores,  and  tends  to 
coarsen  and  harden  the  texture.  Pond's 
Vanishing  Cream  is  an  excellent  powder 
base  and  makes  powder  last  much  longer. 

"I  am  always  faithful  to  the  Pond's 
Method — the  four  steps  are  so  quick  that, 
no  matter  how  crowded  your  engagement 
hook  is,  you  always  have  time  for  them. 
And  every  girl  wants  a  nice  skin!" 

These  are  the  four  simple  steps  of  the 
famous  Pond's  Method  that  keen  Mrs. 
Hamilton's  skin  exquisite,  as  they  do 
many  famous  beauties'.  Make 
them  part  of  your  regime: 

Dl  ring  THE  DAY— first,  for  thor- 
ough cleansing,  apply  Pond's  Cold 
several  times,  always  after  ex- 


6.  Pat  in  with  upward,  outward  strokes,  wait- 
ing to  let  the  fine  oils  sink  into  the  pores  and  float 

the  dirt  to  the  lurfacc. 

sn     -*ipe  away 
am  and  dirt  with 
5  Cleansing  Ti»- 
■  ■iper- 
absorbent-  They  come 
in  Parisian  peach  color  and  pure  white. 

THIRD— pat  skin  with  Pond's  Skin 
Freshener  to  banish  oiliness,  close  and  re- 
duce pores,  tone  and  firm.  So  gentle  that 
it  cannot  dr  I,  this  mild  a 

gent  is  safe  to  use  as  often  as  you  ;. 
1  \^r— smooth    on    Pond's    Vanishing 

Cream  for  powder  base,  protection,  ex- 
quisite finish.  Use  it  wherever  you  pow- 
der, neck,  arms,  shoulders  .  .  .  Marvel- 
ouslv  effective  to  keep  hands  soft,  white 
'        ar.d  unchapped  t    -     Igk  :    t   -  -':'■ 

Send  loJ  for  Pond's  4  Preparat; 

Pond's  Extract  Co.,  Dept.  O.  114  HuJton  St.,  New  York 

Name - 

Street . 


.      , 


C.ty. 


_State_ 


C  jpj  right.  »9ji.  Pond*  Extract  Company 


When  you  write  to  mdrertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


74 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


Y 


cmr  door 


HUGH  TREVOR,  who  is  the  idol  o 
millions,  thinks  that  women  can  grow 
lovelier  with  the  years  if  they  keep 
the  charm  of  youth! 


The  caress  of  dollar-a-cake 

French  toilet  soap 

Erery  advertisement  in  PHOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Magaztni   rot  February,  1931 


75 


on 


19 


riUgh    IreVOr . .  Famous  Screen  Idol 

urp*es  everv  2*irl 


g< 


ygj 


Learn  the  Complexion  Secret  98% 
of  the  screen  actresses  know  .  . 


THE  WOMAN  who  wants  to  win  and 
hold  adoration  should  keep  youth," 
Hugh  Trevor  says. 

"And  nowadays  there  doesn't  seem  to 
he  any  reason  why  she  can't.  Everywhere 
you  go  you  meet  women  no  longer  very 
young  in  years,  but  radiant  with  that 
glowing  alive  sort  of  charm  no  man  can 
resist. 

"Stage  and  screen  stars,  as  you  know, 
hold  the  admiration  they  have  won  year 
after  year.  Birthdays  t/on't  matter  at  all. 
And  nowadays  I  notice  that  other  women 
are  learning  their  complexion  secret!" 


What  is  the  secret  of  holding  youth  the 
fascinating  actresses  know? 

"To  keep  youth,  guard  complexion 
beauty,"  they  will  tell  you.  "Use  gentle, 
soothing  Lux  Toilet  Soap,  regularly,  as 
we  do!" 

Important  actresses  throughout  the 
world  ...  in  Hollywood  ...  on  Broadwav 
...in  Europe... guard  complexion  beauty 
—  KEEP  youth  — with  Lux  Toilet  Soap. 
605  of  the  613  actresses  in  Hollywood, 


alone,  are  devoted  to  it— and  have  been 
jor  years! 

So  dependent  are  they  on  regular  care 
with  this  fragrant,  very  white  soap,  that 
it  is  the  official  soap  in  the  dressing  rooms 
of  all  the  great  film  studios  ...  is  found 
in  theatres  throughout  the  country  for 
the  stars'  convenience. 

Hollywood's  favorite 
Beauty  Care 

Of  the  countless  stars  who  use  this  bland, 
white  soap,  some  have  the  fine-grained 
skin  that  is  inclined  to  dryness;  some  the 
skin  that  has  a  tendency  to  be  oily;  some 
the  in-between  skin  . . .  Every  type  is  rep- 
resented. 

\\ Whatever  your  individual  type  may  be, 
you,  too,  will  find  Lux  Toilet  Soap  the 
perfect  complexion  care — so  soothing  — 
so  bland  is  its  effect  on  the  skin. 

Buy  several  cakes  of  Lux  Toilet  Soap  to- 
day and  keep  your  skin  youthfully  aglow, 
just  as  the  famous  stars  do!  You,  too,  can 
grow  lovelier  with  the  years.  Lock  your 
door  on  birthdays! 


Bl  in     DANIELS,    beautiful    Radio 
Picture*'    war,    tmyti    "Lux    Toilei 

.    is  winuli  rful. " 


BETTY  (  OMPSON,  Radio  Pic- 
tun',  st.ir.  vi \  v  "I'm  dc lighted  with 
Lux  Toilet  Soap. 


v||  (  \ROl  .  m%  acinus  Radio  Pic- 
tures star,  says:  "I  aiwa>s  use  Lux 
Toilet  Soap." 


Lux  Toilet  Soap..lO* 


When  you  wTite  to  idTtrtlsers  please  mention  rHOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


7* 


arlene's  Big  Night 


All  the  stars  came 
out  and  twinkled 
when  "Morocco" 
opened  in  Hollywood 


Marlene  Dietrich  looked  with  wide  eyes  at  the  hurly- 
burly  of  her  first  big  Hollywood  picture  opening. 
Snapped  outside  the  Chinese  Theater  the  night  her 
"Morocco"  opened.  Beside  her  is  the  noted  radio 
announcer,  Freeman  Lang,  "Bald  Eagle  of  the  Air" 


Big  Gary  Cooper  also  had  his  place  in  the 
sun-arcs  the  night  "Morocco"  made  its 
bow  to  Hollywood,  for  Gary  did  about  the 
best  work  of  bis  life  in  it.  At  his  left  is  his 
Lupe  Velez,  all  ermined  up,  and  at  his 
right  stands  Estelle  Taylor,  or  Mrs.  Jack 
Dempsey,  if  you  please 


Pictures    by 

Hyman  Fink 


And  the  younger  pic- 
ture set  was  out  in  full 
force  to  see  "Moroc- 
co" flash  on.  Here 
we  have,  from  left  to 
right,  Dick  Arlen,  his 
wife  Jobyna  Ralston, 
Sue  Carol  and  Hus- 
band Nick  Stuart,  as 
they  faced  the  lights 
and  cameras  before 
the  playhouse 

7fi 


PbOTOPI  w    M  \..\/i\i     i  OB    I  ,1931 

I 


77 


a  dparniuia  Mjjt 


a  cUar  ahui.  . 
Deauty  from  within 


How  the  Saline  Method  reivards 
you  uith  loveliness  and  youth 

FOR  the  splendid  creams  and  sooth- 
ing lotions  of  today,  the  cosmetician 
deserves  your  plaudits  and  your  praise! 
Because  of  them,  complexions  are  finer, 
skins  are  more  beautifully  groomed. 

Butdonotask  the  impossible  of  these 
fine  external  aids.  However  skillfully 
compounded,  however  purely  made, 
they  can  help  you  only  from  without! 
True  beauty,  the  radiant  bloom  of  health, 
depends  on  cleanliness  from  within. 

So,  if  you  would  claim  this  beauty 
for  your  own,  take  up  the  saline  way, 
with  Sal  Hepatica,  to  a  healthy  system. 
Its  reward  is  a  complexion  of  exquisite 
texture — a  radiant  youth  renewed. 

The  saline  method  has  long  been  a 
beauty  secret  of  the  loveliest  women  of 


Europe.  And  each  season's  end  finds  the 
charming  Viennese,  the  lithe-limbed 
English,  the  slender  women  of  France 
thronging  the  continental  spas.  At 
Vichy,  at  Wiesbaden,  at  Aix,  they  drink 
the  saline  waters  to  revivify  their 


Sal  |-jcpatica 


bodies  and  restore  their  complexions. 
For  salines  keep  you  healthy  by  clari- 
fying the  bloodstream  and  banishing 
constipation.  Colds,  headaches,  rheu- 
matism, digestive  ills  disappear.  Blem- 
ishes vanish  —  loveliness  returns. 

.Long  have  physicians  recommended 
the  saline  treatment  for  cleansing  the 
system  of  wastes  and  poisons.  And  Sal 
Hepatica  is  the  efficient  American  equiv- 
alent of  the  saline  springs  of  Europe. 
Get  a  bottle  of  Sal  Hepatica  today. 
Keep  internally  clean  for  one  whole 
v.  cxk.  See  how  your  skin  clears.  See 
how  your  body  responds  with  new  vigor. 
Write  for  our  free  booklet,  'To  Clarice 
in  quest  of  her  youth,"  which  explains 
the  many  benefits  of  Sal  Hepatica. 
•  •  • 

Bristol- Myers  Co..  Dcpt.  G-21.  "l  ^OTrst  <:  .  n  y 
Kindly  send  me  the  free  booklet.  "To  Clarice  in  q^est 
of  her  youth."  which  explains  the  many  benefits  of 

Sal  Hepatica. 

.V..  ".Y 


Citj- 

When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZrXE. 


-J._r.Y- 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


QfUED  FBOM  PACE  V> 


A  good  check  from  a  beautiful  girl. 
Leila  Hyams  has  figured  out  a  way 
to  protect  her  checks.  She  has  a 
picture  of  herself  printed  on  the 
paper,  and  then  signs  it,  too. 
Which  is  quite  a  crafty  stunt 


will  and  fixtures.  It  means  the  famous  Pathe 
News  and  those  Pathe  pictures  already  com- 
pleted, beginning  with  "Sin  Takes  a  Holiday." 

Most  important  from  almost  any  angle,  it 
means  that  Radio  now  controls  the  destiny  of 
three  of  film's  most  promising  ladies,  all  under 
contract  to  Pathe. 

They  are  Ann  Harding,  Constance  Bennett 
and  Helen  Twelvetrees.  All  three  are  growing 
in  popularity — all  have  great  picture  futures  if 
properly  handled. 

P.S.  The  price  for  the  whole  works  was 
S5,000,000. 

DOUG  FAIRBANKS,  Sr.,  gave  Doug,  Jr., 
one  of  those  frightfully  smart  sixteen  cylin- 
der sports  touring  cars  for  his  birthday. 

Joan  Crawford  knew  for  weeks  what  she  was 
going  to  get  for  Christmas.  Doug,  Jr.,  cave  her 
a  portable  dressing  room  and  Mary  Pickford  is 
going  to  furnish  it  for  her. 

JACK  GILBERT  was  all  set  to  go  to  Europe 
on  a  four  months'  vacation,  stopping  en  route 
to  try  to  rind  a  story  for  a  new  picture  for  him- 
self in  New  York. 

But  a  story  was  found  for  him  before  he  left, 
so  the  trip  is  off  and  he's  hard  at  work  rehears- 
ing for  his  new  picture,  "Gentleman's  Fate." 
It  is  rumored  that  Ina  Claire  will  be  back  in 
Hollywood  shortly. 

"TVYORCE  Divertissements: 

-*-^I'ola  Negri  sues  Prince  Serge  Mdivani,  and 

the  wisecrack  is  made  that  "it's  just  a  Serge 

7tf 


suit  for  Pola,  but  a  trousseau  for  Mary  Mc- 
Cormic!" 

Jcanette  Loff  gets  final  decree  from  Harry 
Rosenbloom  and  charges  that  jealousy  ruined 
Loff's  Young  Dream! 

Robert  Ames'  third  wife  (No.  1 — Frances 
Goodrich;  No.  2 — Yivienne  Segal;  No.  3 — 
Helen  Muriel  Oakes)  sues  for  divorce  for  a 
number  of  reasons,  one  of  them  that  he  always 
wanted  to  go  home  early  from  parties  and  then 
kept  her  awake  the  rest  of  the  night  arguing 
with  her. 

Lew  Brown,  of  the  DeSylva-Brown-Hender- 
son  song-writing  trio,  sued  for  divorce.  His 
wife  charges  that  there  was  no  harmony  in  his 
home  life;  all  in  song.    "Just  Imagine!!" 

Doris  Deane  gets  final  decree  from  Roscoe 
Fatty  Arbuckle. 

THEY  say  that  Gloria  Swanson's 
ex-husband,  the  marquis,  wears 
dark  glasses  on  the  lot  instead  of  a 
hat. 

When  he  passes  a  lady  he  tips 
them  politely. 

"T  HAVE  no  father,  no  brother,  no  sweet- 
■*-  heart  to  protect  me,"  lamented  pretty  Rita 
LaRoy,  Radio  Pictures'  s-a-beauty,  the  other 
day. 

But  say,  have  you  ever  noticed  Rita's 
shoulders  and  biceps? 

And  so  it  was  that  one  afternoon  not  so  long 
ago,  in  the  lobby  of  the  hotel  where  Rita  lives 
in  Hollywood,  this  sort  of  thing  happened: 


Rita  asked  for  her  mail  at  the  desk.  A  man 
approached  and  got  too  close. 

"Scram!"  suggested  Rita. 

"Aw,  g'wan,"  countered  the  stranger,  and 
began  pawing  Rita. 

"Beat  it,  or  else,"  said  Rita. 

The  man  grinned  and  pawed  more  pawishly. 

Rita  went  into  action.  She  swung  from  the 
hip.  It  landed  on  the  stranger's  jaw.  He  fell 
backward  and  knocked  himself  out  when  he  hit 
the  floor.  When  he  came  to,  he  was  three 
teeth  shy. 

Rita  didn't  have  him  arrested.  But  she  had 
to  have  her  hand  in  bandages  for  two  days 
afterward. 

■LJOSPITALIZATIONS  for  the  month  in- 
■*■  -delude  poor  Dolores  Del  Rio  again,  and 
Helen  Chandler. 

Dolores  went  to  the  hospital  for  a  kidney 
ailment  that  required  an  operation. 

Helen,  bravely  waiting  until  completion  of  a 
picture  she  was  working  in,  was  rushed  to  the 
hospital  at  the  eleventh  hour  for  an  appendec- 
tomy. 

OF  course,  this  may  be  all  straight- 
ened out  by  the  time  you  read 
this,  but  at  present  writing  Joan 
Bennett  and  boy  friend  John  Con- 
sidine  are  pretty  much  in  a  huff  with 
each  other  and  John  has  been  taking 
Jeanette  Loff  i  another  blonde) 
around  to  all  the  places. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  80  ] 


Have  you  wondered  about  the  autographs  you  may  see  on  the  pictures 
of  your  favorites  that  come  from  the  studios?  Here's  how  it's  done — 
when  they  really  sign  them — which  is  seldom.  Five  photographs  being 
autographed  at  once  by  a  multiple  signing  device  at  the  M-G-M  studio, 
with  Dorothy  Jordan  wielding  the  master  pen 


I'llOlOH    \\      M  iia/IM      HI       I  193] 


"Colgate's  is 

by  far  the 
best  cleanser" 


says 

JEROME  ALEXANDER,  B.S.,  M.Sc. 

Fellow  A.  A.  A.  S.  ;  Member  American  In- 
stitute Chemical  Engineers;  Author  "  Colloid 
Chemistry"  ;  Pioneer  Worker  with  the  Ultra- 
microscope;  Specialist  in  Colloid  Chemistry. 


GO  to  an  eminent  consulting  chemist, 
an  authority  on  scientific  research, 
for  convincing  proof  that  Colgate's  cleans 
teeth  better.  Such  an  authority  is  Jerome 
Alexander  of  New  York.  Let  his  tests  — 
his  scientific  experiments  —  convince  you 
as  they  convinced  him. 

Jerome  Alexander  made  impartial,  ex- 
haustive studies  of  the  cleansing  action  of 
well-known  dentifrices.  Colgate's  was  un- 
deniably more  effective.  Why? 

Because  Colgate's  gets  down  into  the  tiny 
crevices  where  decay  begins.  Because  its 
penetrative  foam  brings  to  the  surface  food 
particles  that  are  never  reached  by  slug- 
gish toothpastes.  Because  —  in  Jerome 
Alexander's  own  words  —  "It   penetrates 


into  the  tooth  fissures,  flooding  away  im- 
purities which  cause  trouble." 

Jerome  Alexander's  research  agrees  with 
the  finding  of  such  noted  authorities  as 
Dr.  Hardee  Chambliss,  Dean  of  Sciences, 
Catholic  University  of  America;  Dr. 
Allen  Rogers,  head  of  the  Department 
of  Industrial  Chemical  Engineering,  Pratt 
Institute;  and  others  of  equal  fame  who 
have  been  retained  to  make  analytical 
tests  and  render  expert  opinion.  Can  you, 
in  choosing  your  dentifrice,  fail  to  be  im- 
pressed by  this  array  of  scientific  proof 
that  Colgate's  is  the  ideal  cleanser?  Take 
the  safe  course  with  your  teeth  —  when 
you  brush  them  with  Colgate's,  you  can 
be  sure  that  they're  really  clean. 


Jerome  Alexander 

says: 
"I  found  that  Colgate's 

exhibits  the  lowest  sur- 
face-tension. Because  of 
this,  Colgate's  penetrates 
into  the  tooth  fissures, 
flooding  away  impurities 
which  cause  trouble. 
Therefore,  Colgate's 
is  by  far  the  best 
cleanser." 


The  price  is  important — 
but  the  quality — not  the 
price — haa  held  Colgate 
leadership  for  30  years. 


FTIUU  COLGATE.  Dert.  M 1028  P  O   Boi 
AVE/ 12/  J7J,  Grind  Central  Post  Office.  New 
Ciry.  Please  send  me  a  free  tube  of  Colgate's 
Ribbon  Dental  Cream,  with  booklet,  "How  to  Keep 
Teeth  and  Mouth  Healthy." 


When  you  write  to  adrertisers  rle»«  mention  PHOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  78 


WILL  II.  BAYS,  President  of  the  Motion 
Picture  Producers'  Association,  was  mar- 
ried to  Mrs.  Jessie  Harron  Statesman,  Nov.  27, 
last,  at  the  home  of  the  bride's  brother  at 
Bethesda,  Md. 

Mrs.  Hays  was  the  widow  of  James  F. 
Statesman,  some  time  United  States  Minister 
to  Bolivia. 

Mr.  Hays  was  at  one  time  Postmaster  Gen- 
eral of  the  United  States.  This  is  his  second 
marriage. 

The  marriage  unites  two  prominent  Indiana 
families,  the  bride  hailing  from  Crawfordsville 
and  the  groom  from  Sullivan. 

SOMEBODY  wanted  some  infor- 
mation and  said  to  Frank  Albert- 
son: 
"You're  in  the  know  at  Fox." 
"Sure  I  am,"  said  Frank,  "every 
time  my  name  is  mentioned  for  a  part 
somebody  says  'no.'  " 

CLARA  BOW'S  battles  are'now  being  fought 
by   a   powerful   ally — her   own   company, . 
Paramount. 

Her  bosses  are  up  in  arms.  They  charge  that 
Los  Angeles  newspapers,  just  to  sell  papers  on 
scandal  headlines,  are  crucifying  the  Brooklyn 
Fire-Belle  with  their  stories. 

One  of  the  dailies  is  said  to  have  gone  extra 
on  a  story  that  Al  Capone  was  visiting  the  red- 
head with  the  gang  king  at  least  2,000  miles 
away. 

Newspapermen  retaliated  by  charging  that 
the  company  had  refused  to  help  them  check 
the  correctness  of  their  stories. 

A  sorry  mess  all  'round.  There  is  even  some 
talk  of  shipping  Clara  East  to  make  her  pictures 


Long    Island    to    escape    the   journalistic 
rage. 

Ul  I  can  say  i 
sell  papers,  too. 


barrage. 

All  I  can  say  is  that  New  York  sheets  like  to 

ill    ri'inorc       tr\r\ 


NOW,  as  exclusively  predicted  in  last 
month's  Photoplay,  Clara  Kimball  Young 
has  staged  her  come-back. 

She  has  been  signed  for  an  important  role 
in  Radio  Pictures'  production  of  "Kept  Hus- 
bands." 

It  will  be  Clara's  first  picture  role  since  1922 
and  her  very  first  talkie.  In  the  last  year  or  so, 
she  has  lost  no  less  than  forty  pounds,  and  is  as 
slim  and  beautiful  as  she  was  in  the  good  old 
days. 

Y\  TELL,  there  hasn't  been  so  much  excite- 
**  ment  in  Movieland  since  D.  W.  Griffith 

introduced  the  close-up.  It's  all  over  that 
Marlene  Dietrich  girl  and  the  million  dollar 
publicity  campaign  that  Paramount  is  giving 
her.  And  there  are  a  lot  of  people  who  are 
pretty  mad  and  seem  to  feel  that  Gary  Cooper 
has  gotten  a  raw  deal.  Gary  is  a  star.  He  is  a 
public  made  star.  He's  been  turning  out  con- 
sistently good  films  for  his  company  for  a  couple 
of  years. 

Originally  Marlene  was  chosen  to  play  his 
leading  woman  in  "  Morocco." 

It  turns  out  that  Gary  is  leading  man  for  the 
new  star.  Her  name  is  billed  over  his  in  letters 
ten  times  as  big  and  the  amazing  part  is  that 
Gary  gives,  in  this  film,  one  of  the  best  per- 
formances of  his  career.  But  the  interest  cen- 
ters around  the  new  Dietrich.  The  critics  ever, 
talk  about  Gary  stealing  the  picture  from  the 
star — and  this  was  supposed  to  be  Gary's  own 
starring  picture. 


At  the  opening  of "  Morocco  "  all  who  stopped 
to  speak  into  the  microphone  first  sang  the  un- 
known Marlene's  praises. 

All  but  Lew  Cody. 

Lew  gave  top  praise  to  Gary.  Next  he  men- 
tioned Menjou  and  he  ended  by  saying  that 
everybody  was  awaiting  the  first  American 
appearance  of  Miss  Dietrich. 

T  ITTLE  Mary  Hay  Barthelmess,  eight,  is 
-"now  with  her  mother,  Mary  Hay,  who  was 
the  first  Mrs.  Richard  Barthelmess. 

Dick  lost  a  bitterly  fought  battle  for  her 
complete  custody.  The  dispute  was  submitted 
to  the  Rev.  S.  Parkes  Cadman,  New  York 
clergyman,  as  arbiter.  He  decided  that  each 
parent  should  have  the  little  girl  for  six  months 
of  each  year. 

The  child  has  spent  most  of  the  time  with 
Barthelmess  since  her  parents  were  divorced 
four  years  ago. 

"DOOR  Tom  Mix.  Sued  for  divorce  by  his 
*-  beloved  wife.  Then  he  has  son-in-law 
trouble. 

Reports  have  filtered  in  that  he  and  Douglas 
Gilmore,  husband  of  Ruth  Mix,  had  a  big  battle 
when  Gilmore  had  things  to  say  about  the  Mix 
family. 

It's  said  that  son-in-law  took  a  lorg  count 
for  that. 

Gilmore  is  said  to  have  been  replaced  in  the 
cast  of  "  Kept  Husbands,"  at  Radio,  by  Bryant 
Washburn. 

GOOD  old  Variety!   Always  got  a  good  story 
for  poor  old  Cal  to  lift. 
This  one  is  about  the  young  star  who  refused 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  82  ] 


Oh,  what  a  bawling-out  the  chimp  on  the  left  is  getting!  The  boss  boot- 
legger, the  one  on  the  right  wearing  the  iron  hat,  is  telling  him  he's  got  to 
run  more  fermented  cocoanut  juice  or  be  put  on  the  spot !  Things  look  bad 
for  the  poor  monk.  It's  a  hot  scene  from  "Nine  Nights  in  a  Barroom,"  one 
of  the  new  Tiffany  Talking  Chimp  comics 

80 


And  here  is  the  simian  version  of 
Charlie  Chaplin,  famous  props  and 
all.  He's  in  another  Tiffany  talk- 
ing monkey  comedy,  which  is 
titled,  "Aping  Hollywood" 


PH0T0FLA1     Mu.a/IM      Mk    I  ,  t.Kl  AkV,    1931 


8  i 


Italy's  great  beauty  experts 
teach  olive  and  palm  oil  method 

to  keep  that  schoolgirl  complexion 


And  the  world  over — more  than  20,000 
leaders  in  beauty  culture  advise  their 
lovely  patrons  to  DM  DO  soap  hut  Palmolive 


Pezza.of  \a|>les,says: 
".\*»  noma n  deserve* 
a  lovely  shin  if  the 
/bill  to  observe  the 
most  important  doily 
beauty  rale:  wash  the 
jaee  with  Palmolive 
Soap  every  morning 
and  every  night." 


fMT 


teWLma-i. 


Pezza,o/  Naples 
He  prescribes 
Palmolive  Soap 
to  Neapolitan 
beauties  who 
wish  to 
that  schoolgirl 
complexion." 


Retail  Price 

lOc 


Cecile  Andre,  of 
Palermo:  "Palm- 
olive is  the  one 
soap  I  can  rely  on 
to  cleanse  the  skin 
and  at  the  same  time 
keep  it  supple." 


FROM  busy, 
metropolitan 
Milan  to  sleepy, 
sun-drenched 
Naples,  Italian 
women  are  discov- 
ering how  to  keep 
that  schoolgirl 
complexion,  just  as 
are  their  sisters  in 
1 5  other  countries. 
They  act  on  the  advice  of  experts. 

Eugenio,  of  Milan;  Pezza,  of  Naples; 
Andre,  of  Palermo;  Salvino,  of  Venice! 
These  are  some  of  the  well-known  leaders 
of  Italian  beauty  culture. 

Specialists  to  royal  houses,  with  stars  of 
the  famous  La  Scala  Opera  and  other  no- 
tables among  their  patrons. 


' 


•*■■• 


The  plamourous  olive-tinted 
Italian  beauty  keeps  her  skin 
fresh  and  exquisitely  fine  by 
regular  use  of  Palmolive 
Soap. 


World  travelers  are 

frequently  directed  to 

the  ..-.-  -va  in 

Xaples. 


All 


receive  same  advice 


And  wherever  complexion  problems 
arise,  all  the  lovely  clients  of  Italy's  great 
beauty  experts  are  told,  first  of  all.  this  one 
fundamental  rule:  "The  skin  needs,  before 


and  above  everything  else,  deep, 
thorough  cleansing." 

That  cleansing,  so  vital  to 

beauty,  is  best  accomplished  with 

Palmolive  Soap  and  warm  water. 

A  rich  lather  should  be  made, 

which  is  massaged  into  the  skin,  then  rinsed 

away  with  warm  water,  followed  by  cold. 

Italy's  experts  are  part  of  a  vast  inter- 
national group  (including  more  than  20,- 
000,  think  of  that!)  every  one  of  whom 
advises  Palmolive.  They  think  it  ideal  for 
the  bath,  too.  Which  is  a  very  practical 
suggestion,  since  Palmolive  never  costs 
more  than  10  cents  the  cake. 


PALMOLIVE  RADIO  HOUR-Broadcast  every 
Wednesday  night-from  9:  30  to  10:30  p.m..  Eastern  time; 
8:  JO  to  9:30  p.  m..  Central  time;  7:30  to  8: 30  p.  m.. 
Mountain  time;  6:30  to  7: 30  p.  m..  Pacific  Coast  time  - 
over  WEAF  and  39  stations  associated  with  The  National 
Broadcasting  Company. 


^BJiJp  ^uJ^(2)cv(\un>^>X  QcnrnJdls^^ 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  rnOTOPHAY  MAGAZINE. 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  80  ] 


to  give  an  interviewer  a  story.  "You  know," 
said  the  silly  actress,  "  we  screen  idols  must 
foster  illusion  for  the  sake  of  our  public." 

The  reporter  thought  of  course  she  was  kid- 
ding. Hut  to  be  certain,  he  asked,  "Do  you 
really  mean  that?" 

"  You  bet  I  do,"  said  the  "idol,"  "and  if  you 
think  I  don't,  get  the  hell  out  of  here!" 

THOSE  two  valiant  little  troupers, 
Renee  Adoree  and  Lila  Lee,  who 
are  at  the  same  sanatorium,  are  both 
fighting  the  good  fight  nobly. 

Lila  will  be  back  home  in  Feb- 
ruary, Renee  a  few  months  later. 
Although  they  are  at  the  same  place 
they  have  not  yet  seen  each  other, 
but  they  exchange  gossip  by  writing 
notes  back  and  forth. 

r^  RETA  GARBO  will  have  one  of  the  great- 
^-Test  parts  of  her  career,  one  of  these  days. 

A  tremendous  play  called  "Grand  Hotel"  is 
the  smash  of  New  York  this  season.  Metro- 
Goldwyn-Mayer  got  smart.  They  saw  a  mighty 
picture  in  the  show,  and  they  put  up  $35,000  as 
part  backing  for  the  stage  production. 

It  was  the  most  sensational  opening  night 
I've  ever  seen. 

The  mob  literally  cheered.  And  Metro 
smiled.  In  the  bag  was  a  great  part  for  the 
Swedish  Cyclone — a  Russian  dancer  who  plays 
hob  with  hearts  in  the  Grand  Hotel. 


The  beautiful  daughter  of  a  great 
star!  In  spite  of  Francis  X's  mas- 
culine beauty,  don't  you  think 
Lenore  has  the  looks  of  the  Bush- 
man family?  She's  playing  small 
parts  in  Metro  pictures,  and  mighty 
well,  too! 

82 


P.  and  A. 


One  of  Hollywood's  newest  and  happiest  bridal  pairs — Dorothy  Lee  of 
Radio  Pictures  and  her  young  press-agent  husband,  Jimmy  Fidler. 
They  were  married  at  San  Bernardino,  Calif.,  and  Dorothy  hustled 
right  back  to  the  studio.  Radio  plans  to  star  Dotty  for  her  good  work 
in  the  Y/heeler-Woolsey  comedies 


A  STAR  in  less  than  a  year!  Hollywood, 
■*M'm  probably  wrong,  but  I  think  you're 
wonderful! 

Lew  Ayres  gets  top  billing  in  "Fires  of 
Youth,"  new  Universal  picture  made  by 
Monta  Bell. 

Shucks.  A  year  ago,  he  was  a  kid  saxophone 
player  getting  a  break  as  juvenile  in  Garbo's 
'"The  Kiss."  Then  came  the  great  break  in 
"All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front." 

Now  stardom.  Why  didn't  I  take  up  sax 
like  mother  said! 

RICHARD  BARTHELMESS  did  a  graceful 
thing  when  the  talking  "Tol'able  David" 
opened  on  Broadway. 

Young  Richard  Cromwell  was  playing  the 
role  that  Dick  made  famous  a  decade  ago,  when 
the  shadows  spake  not. 

He  sent  a  wire  congratulating  Columbia  on 
the  talking  version,  and  praised  highly  the 
kid's  performance  in  the  part. 

REX  BELL  had  Thanksgiving  din- 
ner with  Clara  Bow,  ho  hum! 

TJTJGH  C.  LEIGHTON.  Pauline  Frederick's 
■*■  ^-fourth  matrimonial  try,  says  he  has  been 
"a  husband  in  name  only." 

He  brought  suit  for  the  annulment  of  his 
marriage  to  the  star,  which  took  place  last 
April. 


Lcighton  charged  fraud,  alleging  that  Miss 
Frederick  entered  into  the  marriage  with  no 
intention  of  fulfilling  her  wifely  obligations. 
And  he  prayed  the  court  for  legal  freedom. 

■NTICK  STUART  has  the  last  laugh  on  Holly- 
■L^  wood.  Hollywood,  not  infrequently  cruel 
in  its  wit,  began  snickering  at  Stuart  when  it 
was  announced  that  his  wife,  Sue  Caro!,  will  be 
starred  in  a  picture  to  be  called  "Kept  Hus- 
bands." 

You  see,  film  luck  hasn't  been  so  hot  with 
Nick  lately,  and  Sue's  star  is  in  the  ascendancy 
again,  so  she's  the  one  in  the  family  who  is 
supposed  to  be  turning  in  the  bigger  checks. 

So  maybe  it  was  Hollywood's  nasty  humor 
that  made  Nick  mad  enough  to  go  and  get  him- 
self the  leading  role  in  a  melodrama  that  is  to 
be  shot  by  one  of  the  independents. 

And  the  name  of  it  is  "Sheer  Luck!" 

FOOTBALL'S  the  pet  sport  of  the  movie 
players.    They  just  have  to  look. 

The  big  game  of  the  year  was  the  Notre 
Dame-Southern  California  fracas  at  Los 
Angeles. 

Norma  Shearer  is  said  to  have  given  up  $750 
for  ten  seats  on  the  fifty  yard  line.  Mary 
Pickford  had  a  box.  Among  other  Hollywood 
lights  cheering  for  U.  S.  C.  were  Gloria  Swan- 
son,  Norma  Talmadge,  Marlene  Dietrich, 

[  PLEASE  TURN"  10  PAGE  110  ] 


Photoplay  Magazxni   roi  I  i  ni  \h\,  1931 


WANT  A  COLOR 
COPY  OF  THIS 
FOR    FRAMING? 

A  beautiful  full-color  re- 
print  of  this  future,  en- 

:'.  on  he.uy  art 
paper   without  any  ad- 

igon  it.uilllesent 
oh  receipt  of  ..- 
and  //w  circular  top  of 
the  outside  wrapper  of  a 
Ltsterme  bottle.  .  I 
Dipt.  P.  2..  Lambert 
matal   Comi 
Locust  Street,  St.  Louis, 


To  guard  against,  to  treat  Sore  Throat 
gargle  Listerine-redaces  mouth  germs  98% 


Do  you  realize  that  even  in  normal  mouths  millions  of 
germs  breed,  waiting  until  resistance  is  low  to  strike? 

Among  them  are  the  Micrococcus  Catarrhalis,  asso- 
ciate! with  head  colds;  the  dangerous  Staphylococcus 
Aureus    (pus),    Pneumococcus    (pneumonia),    and    the 
Streptococcus  Hemolyti- 
cus,  so  largely  responsi- 
ble for  sore  throat. 

How  important  it  is  to 
help  nature  fight  these 
germs  by  means  of  a 
mouth  wash  and  gargle 
capable  of  swiftly  de- 
stroying them. 

Fifty  years  of  medical, 
hospital,  laboratory,  and 
general  experience  clear- 
ly prove  Listerine  to  be 

THE  SAFE  ANTISEPTIC 

Kills  200,000,000  germs  in  fifteen  seconds  ( 

When  rou  write  to  sdvertisers  please  mention  PIIOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


the  ideal  antiseptic  and  germicide  for  this  purpose. 

It  is  non-poisonous,  safe  to  use  full  strength  in  any 
amount.  At  the  same  time,  it  is  one  of  the  most  powerful 
germicides  known  when  used  undiluted. 

Within    15    seconds    it    kills    the    Bacillus    Typhosus 
(typhoid)   and  even   Staphylococcus  Aureus   (pua  ,   the 
germ  generally  used  to  test  antiseptic  power  because 
its  resistance  to  germicides. 

Recent  exhaustive  tests  show  that  full  strength  1 
ferine,  when  used  as  a  gargle,  reduces  the  number 
germs   in    the   mouth   98%.     Thus,   the   mouth   is  left 
healthy,  fresh,  clean. 

Under  all  ordinary  conditions  of  health,  the  morning 
and  night  gargle  with  I. isterine  is  deemed  sufficient.  But 
when  you  are  coming  down  with  a  cold  or  sore  throat,  it 
is  wise  to  gargle  with  Listerine  everv  two  hours  in  order 
to  combat  the  swiftly  multiplying  germs.  Lambert 
Pharmacal  Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  L  .  S.  A. 


'fastest  killing  time  actu-  ' 
rately  recorded  by  science , 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


Harper's  Bazaar, 
says- 

Nafaial Color 

14  trie  mode 

or  trie  -nwm&ru/' 

"The  rouge  and  lipstick  which  blend  into 
the  natural  flesh  tones,"  says  this  world 
famous  fashion  magazine,"are  the  ones  which 
flatter  all  types  alike  and  which  fit  most 
perfectly  into  the  fashion  picture  of  1931." 

"This  is  precisely  what  the  TANGEE  prep- 
arations do.  They  accentuate  and  intensify 
the  actual  skin  tones  of  the  individual  be- 
cause of  an  interesting  change  of  color 
when  applied  to  the  skin.  For  this  reason 
they  are  becoming  alike  to  all  types;  the 
blonde,  brunette  or  Titian-haired  woman." 

Tangee,  the  world's  most  famous  Lipstick, 
$1.    Non-Greasy!  Natural!   Permanent! 

Nejt!  Tangee  Theatrical,  a  special  dark 
shade  of  Tangee  Lipstick  for  professional 
and  evening  use. 

Same  Tangee    Color  Principle 


7££££S  >^   Rouge  Compact  75c 


Creme  Rouge  sl 


SEND   20c'  FOR  TANGEE    BEAUTY   SET 


Containing    miniature 
Powder,  two  Creams  an 
The  George  \\".  Ll 
417  Fifth  Avenue 

Lipsti 
d"The 

FT  CO 

ck,   two 
Art  of  M 
.  Dept. 

Rouges, 
ake-up."        | 
P2 
New  York 

!     AJr/rru 

Short  Subjects 

of  the  Month 

A  RUSSIAN  news  reel  makes  its  appearance  among  the 
short  subjects  offered  the  American  film  public. 
The  first  issue  seems  to  show  a  conscious  effort  to  keep 
away    from    Soviet    propaganda — a    blight    with    which   all 
Russian  pictures  are  charged  upon   appearance.     The  first 
issue  of  the  news  reel,  made  by  Sovkino,  is  reviewed  below. 


RUSSIAN  NEWS  REEL 
Sovkino 

The  first  news  reel  from  Russia  contains  but 
five  subjects — all  non-controversial.  Beginning 
with  shots  of  some  Soviet  officials,  it  contains 
a  race  between  mountaineer  peasants  and  a 
swimming  race  near  Moscow.  The  reel  is  more 
magazine  than  news,  and  not  too  interesting. 

CLEANING   UP 
Paramount 

Our  old  friend  Chester  Conklin,  the  Mr. 
Walrus  of  Keystone  days,  appears  in  this, 
aided  and  abetted  by  a  pal  of  the  same  era.  big 
Mack  Swain.  Both  the  boys  play  street  clean- 
ers who  get  mixed  up  with  gangsters.  The 
comedy  is  pretty  slow,  but  the  vets  furnish  a 
few  laughs. 

THE  DOCTOR'S  WIPE 
W'arners-Vitaphonc  Variety 

This  is  an  eight-minute  roughhouse  inter- 
lude, which  is  notable  for  its  speed.  Add  the 
fact  that  it  has  a  bit  of  spice  and  it  is  good  for 
several  roars  before  the  long  picture  begins. 
Franklin  Pangborn  plays  a  philandering 
doctor,  Gertrude  Astor  a  siren,  and  Geneva 
Mitchell  the  doc's  wife. 

AUNTS  IX  THE  PANTS 
Radio  Pictures 

This  is  one  of  the  funniest  shorts  of  the 
season.  Walter  Catlett  plays  the  favorite 
nephew  of  Aunt  Aggie  (Cissie  Fitzgerald). 
Together  they  go  out  and  paint  the  town  red, 
only  to  find,  next  morning,  that  the  house  is 
filled  with  hilarious  strangers  they  brought 
home. 

ALL  FOR  MABEL 
Pari* 

Another  comedy  with  a  college  background, 
and  with  little  Sally  Starr  to  furnish  her  cute- 
ness  as  the  central  figure.  The  boxing  champ 
of  the  school  is  in  love  with  Sally,  and  he  has 
a  hard  time  holding  her.  There  are  some  inter- 
polated songs,  dances  and  things.    Not  too  hot. 

GIRLS  WILL  BE  BOYS 
Christie 

Now  they're  using  Austins  in  comedies  in- 
stead of  the  old  reliable  Ford !  You  should  see 
Charlotte  Greenwood  trying  to  drive  one  of  the 
baby  cars.  You  will  if  you  see  this  funny 
comedy.  It's  a  natural  for  laughs— lanky 
Charlotte  and  the  little  motor.  Watch  for 
this  one. 

VERDI 

Filzpatrick 

Another  in  Fitzpatrick's  interesting  series 
about  the  lives  of  famous  composers.  They 
all  stick  strictly  to  biographical  truth.  As  in 
the  others  of  this  group,  the  incidents  of  the 
Italian  composer's  life  are  musically  accom- 
panied by  Nat  Shilkret's  excellent  orchestra. 


ANOTHER  FINE  MESS 
Hal  Roach— M-G-M 

What's  the  use  combing  the  vocabulary 
think  up  more  words  to  tell  how  funny  Laurel 
and  Hardy  are?  This  comedy  of  theirs  is  no 
let-down.  You'll  get  at  least  your  usual 
quota  of  laughs  from  it.  The  boys  get  all 
jammed  up  in  the  house  of  an  Af  rican  explorer. 

POLITICS 
Warners- 1  'ita  phone  1  'ariety 

George  Jessel,  who  didn't  do  too  well  in 
features,  makes  some  excellent  short  comedies. 
This  one  has  a  very  good  story7  by  Burnet 
Hershey,  and  is  well  directed,  while  Jessel  is 
capital  throughout.  George  plays  an  amateur 
politician  booming  a  cigar  store  keeper  for 
alderman.     Worth  while. 

THUNDERING  TENORS 
M-G-M 

Boy,  bring  in  a  hatful  of  medals  for  this 
director.  The  hero  of  this  comedy  is  a  radio 
crooner — and  he  doesn't  let  off  one  song  in  the 
entire  short.  There  are  a  lot  of  Class  A  gags 
in  the  little  picture,  and  the  perennial  Charlie 
Chase  manages  to  be  mighty  funny  in  it. 

TOO  HOT  TO  HANDLE 
Radio  Pictures 

Well,  chalk  up  another  comedy  hit  for  the 
ever- reliable  and  always  funny  Louise  Fazenda! 
Louise  here  plays  a  social  adviser  to  a  family 
of  newly-rich — and  then  rings  in  her  own 
relatives  to  add  aristocratic  touches  to  an 
amateur  fox  hunt.  An  extremely  comical 
comedy. 

IN  AGAIN.  OUT  AGAIN 
Paramount 

This  might  be  dedicated  to  the  girls  who 
walk  home  from  automobile  rides.  There 
isn't  any  story,  but  two  girls — Aileen  Cook  and 
Lillian  Bond — have  a  lot  of  funny  chatter  on 
their  way  home  from  more  or  less  acrobatic 
motor  trips.    Ten  minutes  of  some  fun. 

THE  CRYSTAL  GAZER 
Columbia 

One  of  the  series  that  Eddie  Buzzell  has  been 
making  for  Columbia  release.  It's  pretty 
much  adult  stuff,  built  on  miniature  revue 
lines,  with  a  couple  of  blackouts.  The  dialogue 
is  bright.  Eddie  plays  a  vaudeville  "mystic" 
who  advises  two  blonde  girls  on  domestic 
affairs. 

TRADER  GINSBURG 
Radio  Pictures 

This  is  a  Xat  Carr  dialect  comedy.  Xat, 
who's  really  funny  in  this,  plays  the  inventor 
of  a  vest  pocket  radio  who  follows  a  prospect ' 
to  Africa.  Cannibals  get  the  party,  but  Xat 
comes  to  the  rescue  when  an  ostrich  swallows 
his  radio  and  starts  to  talk.    Great  gag. 


Era]   adurtisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


PhOTQPI  Al    M  1GAZIN1    n>i     I     BS1    UN  ,    1931 


»s 


Do  these  three  things  ...  to  have  strong,  healthy  teeth 


1.  Follow  this  diet  daily:        ^| 

tWOtfgS.rOU  ft  •/;.' .nrsh   ^^, 

or,  slery.   H  Irmonuilh  onuiire  ^H| 

(>«<•  quart  ../'  /<■»/<-.  <<;«i  I 
other  food  to  nut  tlic  appetite. 

Eat  correctly. .  .See  your  Dentist 
...Use  Pepsodent  twice  a  day 

These  are  the  three  rules  to  follow 
if  you  seek  lovely,  healthy  teeth 


EACH  day  new  discoveries  are  made  in 
dentistry.  Now  it's  found  that  the  proper 
diet  aids  greatly  in  building  natural  resistance 
to  decay  and  gum  disorders.  Above  is  shown 
a  list  of  foods  to  be  included  in  the  diet. 

Remove  film  from  teeth 

There  is  another  highly  important  thing  that 
von  yourself  can  do  to  keep  teeth  strong  and 
bealthy.  On  your  teeth  there  is  a  stubborn, 
clinging  film.  That  film  absorbs  the  stains 
from  food  and  smoking — teeth  turn  dull. 

Film  harbors  the  germs  that  cause  decay 
ami  other  troubles  and  glues  them  to  the 
teeth.  To  protect  teeth  and  keep  them  lovely, 
film  must  be  removed  each  day. 

To  do  that  more  effectively  than  by  any 
other  method  except  your  dentist's  cleaning, 
Pepsodent  was  developed.  That's  why  it  is 
called  the  special  film-removing  tooth  paste. 

Pepsodent  contains  no  pumice,  no  harmful 
grit  or  crude  abrasives.  It  has  a  gentle  action 
that  protects  the  delicate  enamel.  It  is  com- 
pletely SAFE  ...  yet  it  removes  dingy  film 
where  ordinary  methods  fail. 

Try  Pepsodent  today — it  is  an  important 
adjunct  in  possessing  lovelier,  healthier  teeth. 


Amn«  *n'  Anrlv  -America's  most  popular 
rtmOS  "  AnQy  radio  feature.  On  the  air 
night  except  Sunday  over  N.  B.  C.  network. 
7:00  p.  m.  on  stations  operating  on  Eastern  time. 
1  p.  m.  on  stations  operating  on  Central  time. 
9:00  p.  m.,  Mountain  time.   8:00  p.  ni.,  Pacific  tune. 

Pepsodent 

-  the  tooth  paste  which  presents  you 
with  the  Amos  'n' Andy  radio  program. 


Film 


is  found  by  dental  research  to  play  an  important 
part  in  tooth  decay . . .  and  to  cause  unsightly  stains. 


When  you  write  to  idvertLsers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZIXE. 


•       r 


'  I  SHE  whole  essence  of  motion  picture  making 
-1  is  distilled  in  this  one  vivid  picture.  Study- 
ing the  scene  through  dark  glasses  is  Ruth  Chatter- 
ton,  the  star.  Director  Richard  Wallace  stands 
by  the  camera.  Overhead  projects  the  microphone 
boom.     They  are  making  "The  Right  to  Love" 


On  the  Firing 
Line! 


SG 


Pbotoflai  M\i.\/im   roa  February,  1931 


Women... like  movies 
need  a  theme-song 


Tl 


say*   LOIS  WILSON 


n 


ith 


leme  songs  .  .  .  how  they  stay  wi 
you !  Oteal  into  your  very  lieart  .  .  . 
Daunt  your  thoughts  lor  days  .  .  .  lor 
years,  lorever,  maybe!  jome  girls  .  .  . 
•wise  girls  .  . .  nave  theme-songs,  too.  A 
wisp  ol  Iragrance. . .  tliat  s  always  with 
tliem.  olipping  subtly  into  tlie  senses 
ol  everyone  who  knows  tliem!  Aly 
theme-song;  .  ..1  knew  yon  a  ask!  Its 
•Seventeen  ...  a  Iragrance  just  like  its 
name  .  .  .  naive,  yet  awlully  wise  .  .  . 
languorous,  yet  staccato  too!    1  wear 

it  always lor  tlie   mood   it   brings 

me a  mooo  so  young. — well 

r  . .  not  more   than  Oeventeen! 


c:;c 


Eight  Toiletries  bear  the 
scent  oj  Seventeen 

The  Perfume  .  .  .  keynote  of  the 
Seventeen  ensemble.  The  race 
Powder  .  .  .  shaucs  and  texture  as 
■well  as  scent  are  llatterin^ly  youth- 
ful. Compact.  .  .  a  stunning  thine, 
black  as  onyx;  lor  either  loose  or 
cake  powder.  Dusting  Powder  ...  a 
soft,  lovely  powder  -with,  the  mo.«t 
refreshing  fragrance  imaginable. 
Sachet.,  .to  impart  an  alluring  hint 
of  Seventeen  in  clothing  and  lin- 
gerie. Toilet  Tvater  ...  a  subtle 
expression  of  the  Seventeen  scent. 
Talcum  .  .  .  delicate  and  soothing, 
and  U  a  graceful  e.lass  jar.  Brtllan- 
tmes  ...  solid  anil  liquid,  in  charm- 
ing containers,  both  hearing  the 
merest  whin  of  Seventeen. 


eoeriWji^ 


When  jtra  write  to  idiertisers  pleise  mention  rHOTOPLAT  MAOAZIXZ. 


88 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 

For  evening,   BESSIE   LOVE,   charming   Metro-Goldwyn  player,   chooses  a  gown   of  intricate  cut,   much 

o)   whose   effectiveness   depends    upon    beauty   oj    figur, .     The    three-piece   pajama    costume    (upper   right) 

illustrates  how  to  be  jrminine  'tho  trousered.    In  the  feminine  lead  of  "See  America  Thirst,"  the  Universal 

comedy  feature,  Miss  Love  wears  this  debonair  little  utility  costume. 


We're  back  to 

FEMININE  FASHIONS 

...  But  not  to 

LADY-LIKE  LANGUOR 


Today  we're  as  spirited  in  trailing  skirts 
as  we  ever  were  in  short  ones  .  .  .  and 
buoyant  good  health  is  still  the  better 
part  of  beauty! 

But  the  new  clothes  themselves  demand 
almost  physical  perfection.  We  must  be 
slender,  ah  yes!  .  .  .  but  alluringly 
rounded.  We  must  count  our  calories  .  .  . 
but  never  reveal  it  in  our  complexions. 
And  here's  where  so  simple  a  thing  as 
bran  in  the  diet  can  be  of  immense  help. 

Most  of  us  find  it  necessary  to  go  on 
reducing  menus  every  once  in  a  while. 
(Those  extra  pounds  just  will  come  back!) 

And  when  we  do — elimination  so  often 
becomes  irregular.  Poisons  and  wastes 
accumulate.  The  result  is  pimples — dry 
or  sallow  skin — headaches,  dizziness  and 
sometimes  serious  illness. 

Kellogg's  All-Bran  in  an  adequate  re- 
ducing diet  prevents  all  that.  It  is  not 
fattening — but  it  does  add  the  "bulk"  or 
"roughage"  every  diet  needs.  It  helps  to 
clear  away  all  impurities  and,  in  addi- 
tion, contains  iron  which  brings  glowing 
color  to  cheeks. 


There  are  many  ways  to  enjoy  Kel- 
logg's All-Bran.  Try  it  as  a  ready-to- 
eat  cereal  with  skimmed  milk.  Cook  it 
in  omelets,  bran  muffins  or  bread. 
Sprinkle  it  into  soups  or  over  salads. 

No  other  bran  is  so  deliciously  fla- 
vored— so  delightfully  krumbled.  Ask 
for  Kellogg's  All-Bran  in  the  red-and- 
green  package.  Recommended  by  dieti- 
tians. Made  by  Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 


You'll  enjoy  Kellogg's  Slumber  Music,  broad- 
cast over  wjz  and  associated  stations   every 
Sunday  evening. 

SEND     FOR     THE     BOOKLET 

"Keep  Healthy  While  You  Are 
Dieting  to  Reduce" 

It  contains  helptul  counsel.  Women  who  ad- 
mire beauty  and  fitness  and  who  want  to  keep 
fashionable  figures  will  find  the  suggested 
menus  and  table  of  foods  for  dieting  invalu- 
able. It  is  free  upon  request. 

KELLOGG  COMPANY 

Dept.  A-2,  Battle  Creek,  Michigan 

Please  send  me  a  free  copy  of  your  booklet, 
"Keep  Healthy  While  You  Are  Dieting  to 
Reduce." 


Nat 


Address- 


Eut>-  advertisement  in  lMlOTOl'LAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


c/he  Cool 


For  Ann  I  larding  it 
holds  no  terrors 


Will  \  the  cook's  away,  the  Bannisters  play! 
Mrs    Seven-day-s  week  housewife  may  call  it 
work,  but  Ann  Harding  asks  for  nothing  hitter  than 
a  starring  role  among  the  pots  and  pans  on  the 
cook's  day  out. 

Husband  Harry  Bannister  makes  it  a  point  never  to  be  late 
for  dinner  on  thai  particular  night  Two-year  old  Jane  seems 
to  t hi nk  it's  all  a  game,  staged  for  her  espet  ial  benefit  Perhaps 
that's  because  she  is  allowed  to  stay  up  a  little  later  than  usual 

and  help  set  the  table.  Ann  Harding  scorns  any  other  assist- 
ance and  dismisses  all  the  servants  for  the  evening. 

The  menu  must  be  simple,  because  studio  routine  has  to  be 
considered  and  the  cook  may  not  get  home  from  her  daily 
stnnt  at  the  l'athe  Studios  until  six  o'clock,  or  later.  Clever 
Ann  uses  her  head  in  the  domestic  scene  as  well  as  in  movie 
dramas.  She  has  a  dozen  little  dodges  to  save  time.  Other 
business  women  nOUSewives  tan  take  a  leaf  from   her  book. 

Here  is  a  typical  menu  planned  for  a  night  when  she  knows 
she  will  be  late  in  donning  her  apron. 

Celery  and  Olives 

Mushroom  Patties 

Broiled  Steak 

French  Fried  Potatoes  Scalloped  Onions 

Home-made  Biscuits 

Watercress  and  Cucumber  Salad 

with  Parisian  Dressing 

Meringue  Glace" 

Coffee 


Mushroom  Patties 


Clean  mushrooms.  Cut  into  small  pieces,  cover  with  water, 
and  boil  until  tender  (about  twenty  minutes).  Prepare  a  thin 
cream  sauce  (making  enough  at  the  same  time  for  the  onions), 
add  mushrooms,  and  serve  in  warmed  patty  shells. 

The  patty  shells  are  ordered  in  the  morning,  to  save  time. 

Scalloped  Onions 

Boil  onions  until  soft,  and  cut  into  quarters.    Put  in  buttered 

baking  dish,  cover  with  cream  sauce,  sprinkle  with  buttered 
cracker  crumbs,  and  put  in  the  oven  until  the  crumbs  arc  well 
browned. 


Photoplay  Magazine 

919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous 
Cook  Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the 
stars.     I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


One  of  the  busiest  girls  in  pictures  finds  time  to 

cook.     Mrs.  Harry  Bannister  took  off  her  apron  for 

a  moment  to  look  her  prettiest  for  this  photograph, 

taken  in  her  California  kitchen 


Brown  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  lard 

5  teaspoons  baking  powder    1  cup  milk  and  water  in  equal  parts 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  and  sift  twice.  Work  in  lard  lightly  with 
tips  of  fingers  until  flaky.  Add  liquid  slowly,  using  a  spatula 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a  floured  board  and  roll  lightly 
to  one-half  inch  thickness.  Shape  with  biscuit  cutter.  Place 
in  floured  tin  and  bake  in  hot  oven  ten  to  fifteen  mini.' 

Watercress  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Prepare  watercress  and  add  one  cucumber  that  has  been 
peeled,  chilled,  and  cut  in  one-half  inch  dice.  Serve  with  the 
following  Parisian  Dressing: 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped 

parsley 
4  red  peppers 
8  crecn  peppers 
1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Let  stand  one  hour, 
then  stir  vigorously  for  five  minutes.  The  peppers  should  be 
the  very  small  variety.  This  dressing  can  be  prepared  the 
day  before,  and  stirred  thoroughly  before  using. 


'  ■_>  cup  oil 

5  tablespoons  vinegar 
1  .  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 
1    tablespoon  finely  chopped  Ber- 
muda onion 


Meringue  Glace 

Meringue  shells  can  be  bought  early  in  the  day  with  the 
patty  shells.     Fill  with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream. 

IF  you  are  planning  a  Valentine  party,  the  patties,  biscuits 
and  meringues  will  make  a  party  spread  that  isn't  too  dainty 
for  masculine  appetites. 

CAROLYN-  VAN  WYCK 


9° 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


For  a  more  beautiful  complexion 

A  clear  and  youthful  skin!  Every  woman 
knows  that  cleanliness  is  the  secret.  But  how? 
Where  to  begin?  Exactly  what  to  do?  Isn't 
that  the  li i«r  problem?  Then  send  for  our  free 
booklet,  The  Thirty-Day  Lowliness  Test. 


For  highlights  in  your  hair 

Grime  kills  lustre.  Keep  your  hair  soft  and 
smooth  and  beautiful.  How?  Frequent  sham- 
pooing, done  properly.  Learn  the  fine  art  of 
shampooing   by  reading  our  booklet  below. 


For  elbows  that  are  dark 
and  roughened 

Just  a  little  thing,  but  really  quite  important! 
Again  the  remedy  is  simple.  Soap-scrub  this 
unloveliness  away.  Three  times  a  day  at  first 
and  at  least  once  daily  thereafter. 


For  a  new  smart  look 
to  your  clothes 

Here's  something  that  we  wish  you  would  try. 
Every  day  for  a  month.  Put  on  nothing  that 
isn't  crisply  clean.  Just  see  the  difference  that 
it  makes.  (And  read  our  booklet). 


Send  for  FREE  booklet 

Here  is  a  beauty  booklet  that  is  as  simple  and 
practical  as  it  is  helpful  and  inspiring.  It's 
called  The  Thirty- Day  Loveliness  Test.  Easy 
instructions  .  .  .  and  a  definite  program  to 
follow.  Free  for  the  asking;  use  coupon  below. 

CLEANLINESS 
I N  ST1TUTE 


CLEANLINESS  INSTITUTE,  I'2-31 

Dept.  N2,  45  East  17th  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  free  of  all  cost,  The  Thirty-Day 
Loveliness  Test." 


Name  . 
Street. 
City 


.State 


Ten  Years  Ago  in  Photoplay 


THIS  month — being  February,  1921 — we 
carry  the  sad  story  of  the  divorce  that 
separated  Charles  Chaplin  and  Mildred 
Harris. 

The  little  blonde  took  the  stand  and  tear- 
fully told  of  alleged  cruelty  and  neglect.  The 
judge,  however,  granted  the  decree  on  grounds 
of  desertion. 

A  property  settlement,  made  out  of  court, 
gave  Mildred  S50,0<)0  at  once  and  $57,000  in 
six  months.  (Contrast  that  with  the  S800.000 
his  second  marriage  was  to  cost  Chaplin.) 

The  one  dramatic  moment  of  the  divorce 
hearing  came  when  she  told  of  the  death  of 
their  little  son.     The  baby  lived  but  three  days. 

So  began  the  separate  existence  of  Mildred 
Harris  Chaplin.  We  hear  little  of  her,  in 
these  rushing  days  of  1931. 

A  XD  ten  years  ago  we  carry  a  glowing 
*»story  about  Marjorie  Rambeau  and  her 
happy  marriage  to  Hugh  Dillman,  an  actor. 
The  piece  is  called  "How  a  Stage  or  Screen 
Marriage  Can  He  Made  Happy." 

Alas  and  alack!  It  wasn't  long  before  the 
marriage  went  to  pieces  on  the  widely  but 
unfavorably  known  rocks.  Ten  years  ago — ■ 
that's  a  long  drill.  And  only  a  few  months 
ago  this  magazine  carried  another  story  about 
Marjorie  Rambeau. 

She  was  in  Hollywood.  Older,  and  probably 
a  lot  wiser.  More  mature  in  her  life  and  her 
art.  And  turning  in  a  series  of  excellent  per- 
formances in  these  new-fangled  talking  pic- 
tures we  are  beginning  to  hear  of. 

But  the  little  story  didn't  say  anything 
about  the  happiness  of  stage  marriages.  That — 
alas — was  ten  years  ago. 

A  XD  here  are  two  pages  of  pictures  of 
■**-great  film  families,  ruling  the  movie  roost 
in  1921. 

Mary  Pickford,  with  Lottie  and  Doug. 
Mary  makes  "Kiki"  now.  but  Jack  and  Lottie 
are  never  heard  of,  unless  they  get  married 
or  divorced,  and  then  it's  the  Pickford  name. 

The  three  Talmadge  girls.  Xorma,  once  in 
a  while,  makes  a  picture.  Connie,  happy  in 
matrimony  with  Townsend  Xetcher,  and  said 
to  be  expecting  the  stork.  Xatalie,  long  in 
sweet  domesticity  with  Buster  Keaton  and 
the  kiddies. 

Jane  and  Eva  Novak.    Where,  oh,  where? 

Shirley  Mason  and  Viola  Dana.  Out  of  the 
picture. 

The  Gish  girls.    Both  on  the  stage. 

William  and  Dustin  Farnum.  Dustin  dead, 
and  Bill  making  a  strong  comeback  in  char- 
acter roles. 

Verily,  in  the  pictures  as  in  empires,  it's 
a  case  of  the  kings  and  queens  are  dead — 
long  live  the  kings  and  queens! 

UXIVERSAL  is  advertising  Priscilla  Dean 
in  "Outside  the  Law."  In  1930  the  same 
company  crashed  out  with  a  talkie  of  the 
same  story.  .  .  .  Betty  Compson's  new  pic- 
ture is  "Prisoners  of  Love."  .  .  .  Whoa! 
Here's  an  interview  with  Florence  Reed,  then 
a  great  stage  star  appearing  in  "East  of  Suez." 
She  says,  "I  have  heard  the  call  of  the  East. 
I  shall  follow  it — into  the  inner  chamber  of 
the  heart  of  India,  Japan,  China."  How 
prophetic  Flo  was!  Only  a  few  years  later 
she  was  making  the  hit  of  her  life  as  Mother 
Goddam  in  "The  Shanghai  Gesture."  .  .  . 
In  this  month's  roto — Mildred  Harris,  Alice 
Lake,  Pearl  White  ioh.  how  beautiful!),  Rose- 
mary Theby,  Harold  Lloyd.  Eva  Xovak.  Hope 
Hampton,  and  one  of  Walter  Tittle's  etchings, 
this  time  of  Mary  Pickford.  .  .  .  Hedda 
Hopper  was  a  vamp  in  1921. 

HOW  this  business  does  run  in  cycles! 
In  1921  Fox  was  making  "A  Connecticut 
Yankee  in  King  Arthur's  Court,"  the  Mark 
Twain   story.     Director  Emmett  Flynn   was 


directing,  and  Harry  Myers  was  to  top  his 
film  reputation  as  Hank  Morgan,  the  Yankee. 

In  1931  Fox  is  making  "A  Connecticut 
Yankee"  as  a  talking  picture.  Will  Rogers, 
Fox's  big-money  star,  is  playing  Hank  Morgan. 

Harry  Myers?  Vou'll  see  him  in  "City 
Lights,"  the  Chaplin  picture.  He's  been 
'round. 

T>ID  we  say  cycles? 

•*-'  In  the  February  issue  of  1921  we  ran  a 
story  beginning  "Conrad  Xagel  is  a  nice  boy." 
It  told  of  his  devotion  to  his  young  family  and 
his  general  excellent  behavior  in  a  community 
widely  thought  of  as  a  bit  naughty.  Xice  boy. 
Later  in  1930  we  ran  a  story  called  "The 


Mildred  Harris  as  she  looked  at  the 

time  she  divorced  Charlie  Chaplin, 

in  1920 


Strange  Case  of  Conrad  Xagel."  It  might 
easily'  have  begun  "The  nice  boy  grows  older." 
For  the  second  piece  simply  paints  the  same 
nice  boy  a  decade  later — still  a  devoted  hus- 
band and  father  of  a  somewhat  older  family, 
but  now  a  leader  in  affairs  within  the  picture 
industry.  There's  one  boy  who's  never  changed, 
except  to  expand  a  bit.  Still  a  leading  man 
much  in  demand — still  the  same  nice  boy. 

PICTURES  of  February,  1921— Mae  Murray 
and  David  Powell  in  "Idols  of  Clay."  .  .  . 
Pearl  White  in  "The  Thief."  her  second  feature 
picture  after  her  long  career  in  serials.  .  .  . 
Wesley  Barry  in  "Dinty,"  directed  by  Mickey 
Xeilan.  Colleen  Moore  played  a  supporting 
role.  .  .  .  Fatty  Arbuckle  in  "The  Life  of 
the  Party."  in  which  he  flopped  as  a  light 
comedian  in  a  long  feature.  .  .  .  Lois  Wilson, 
Jack  Holt,  Lila  Lee  in  "Mid-summer  Mad- 
ness." .  .  .  Lon  Chaney  appears  in  "The 
Penalty,"  with  Ethel  Grey  Terry  and  Kenneth 
Harlan  .    .    .   not  too  hot  a  month. 

GOSSIP  of  the  month. 
Charlie  Chaplin  has  sold  "The  Kid'?  to 
First  Xational  for  S800.000. 

The  personal  effects  of  the  late  Olive  Thomas 
(Mrs.  Jack  Pickford^  have  been  sold  at  auction. 
Herbert    Rawlinson   is    to   be   featured   in 
Lewis  B.  Mayer  productions. 


Every  nd  ertisenunt  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  £uaranteed. 


Photoplay  Magazini  ,,im  FiatuAjnr,  1931 


01 


'This  sparkling  new  Nail  Make-up 
is  essentia/  to  French  Chic" 

. .  .  savs  famous  Fashion  Editress  of  Paris 


CHIC   to  her   finger  tips,  the  French- 
woman's hands  arc  an  important  part 
of  her  toilette. 

i  the  new  Cutex  Liquid  Polish  has  com- 
pletely captivated  fastidious  Frenchwomen," 
continues  Martinc  Renier,  Fashion  Edit* 
"Fcmina."    For  this  brilliant  nail  finish  is  as 
[Tactical  as  it  is  smart. 

"Count   its   five   advantages  on   your   own 

finger  tips!    Its  brilliant  lustre  is  unmatched. 

cs  on  so  simply,  quickly,  smoothly.    It 

gleams  unmarrcd   tor  days  and  days.     It  will 

not  turn  yellow,  crack  or  peel. 

"Quickly,  simply,  chic  Parisiennes  do  their 
nails  this  way:  First,  the  nails  arc  scrubbed. 
Then  a  bit  of  cotton  is  dipped  in  Cuticle  Re- 
mover &  Nail  Cleanser  to  mould  the  cuticle 
and  cleanse  the  nail  tips.  Next,  a  touch  of 
Cuticle  Cream  or  Oil  to  keep  the  cuticle  supple, 


Put  your  Nail  Polish  to  this  Test. 
Does  it  .  .  . 


drv  in  to  seconds? 


Exceptional  Trial  Offer 


Only  12c 


I  enclose  I :«  tor  the  Cutex  Manicure  Set  containing 
sufficient  preparations  for  six  complete  manicures. 
(In  Canada,  address  Post  Office  Box  2054,  Montreal.) 

Northam  Warren,  Dept.  1Q-2 
191  Hudson  Street New  York,  N.  Y. 


never  crack,  peel,  turn  yellow  or  white? 

last  a  whole  week  ? 

sparkle  always  with  chic  lustre? 

Cutex  Liquid  Polish  is  first  always,  say  mil- 
lions ot  women  and  the  leading  Beauty  Editors 
of  fashion  cities  all  over  the  world. 

Cutex  Manicure  Preparations  arc  let! 
each  .  .  .  Liquid  Polish  and  Remover  to- 
gether,      r 
North  am  Warren,  New  York,  London,  Pari-; 


The    ?   treat  fashion  cities   of  the  world  prefer 

Cutex  Liquid  ,\ail  Polish   to  all  others    .    .     . 

Paris  .  Vienna  .  Madrid  .  Rome  .  I.mndos 

Budapest  .  Buenos  Aires  •  New  York 


C  u  tex  L  iq  it  id  Po  lisli 

Chosen  by  Beautv  Editors  everywhere — the 
world's   finest   Nail    Polish  —  yet  only   35c- 


When  you  write  to  tdvertisers  ple»s«  mention  PIIOTOri.AY  MAGAZINE. 


Questions 
A  n  s  w  e  r  s 


Why   the   Answer    Man    has   writer's 

cramp   this   month.      "Min   and   Bill" 

brought  in  an  avalanche  of  questions 

about  its  principal  players 


THOSE  two  old-timers,  Marie  Dressier  and 
Wallace  Beery,  stirred  up  more  interest 
this  month  than  the  whole  flock  of  inge- 
nues and  juveniles.  And  two  comparative  new- 
comers to  the  talking  screen,  Dorothy  Jordan 
and  Marjorie  Rambeau,  brought  in  a  batch  of 
questions.  The  reason?  The  fine  work  of  all 
four  in  that  heart-reaching  M-G-M  picture, 
".Min  and  Bill." 

Marie  gets  a  proposal,  via  Photoplay,  from 
Thomas  G.  of  Minnesota,  who  describes  him- 
self as  a  "gentleman-farmer."  Thomas  states 
his  qualifications  (not  bad,  either!),  says  he's 
heard  Marie  is  a  widow,  and  his  only  question 
is  whether  we  think  she  will  marry  him! 

Sorry,  Tom,  my  boy,  but  we  can't  do  a  John 
Alien  to  your  Miles  Standisk.  You'll  have  to 
ask  her  yourself. 

H.  R.,  a  former  resident  of  Cobourg,  Canada, 
the  town  where  Marie  was  born  fifty-nine  years 
ago,  wants  to  know  when  Marie  is  going  back 
for  a  visit.  He  wants  to  meet  her  there.  That's 
another  question  we'll  have  to  refer  to  the  lady 
herself.    But  answering 

J.  S.,  Atlanta,  Ga. — Marie  Dressier  is  5 
foot,  7;  has  brown  hair,  blue-gray  eyes,  and 
weighs  around  200  pounds.  Yes,  the  title  of 
one  of  her  latest  pictures  is  "Reducing,"  but 
she  isn't!  Her  face  and  her  figure  are  her 
fortune,  and  Marie  is  wise  enough  to  let  well 
enough  alone. 

Miriam,  Kansas  City,  Kan. — Wallace 
Beery's  first  wife  was  none  other  than  Gloria 
(ex-Marquise)  Swanson.  Xo,  he  wasn't  born 
in  Kansas  City,  Kan.,  but  in  its  sister  city  in 
Missouri.  He  doesn't  tell  the  year,  but  says  it 
was  all  an  April  Fool  joke,  anyhow.  You 
guessed  it.    The  date  was  April  1. 

Middle- Aged  Admirer,  Chicago,  III. — 
Yes,  Marjorie  Rambeau  played  in  a  number  of 
silent  films,  as  far  back  as  1917.  Her  first 
talkie  part  was  with  Helen  Twelvetrees  and 
Phillips  Holmes  in  "Her  Man,"  for  Pathe. 
Her  latest  role  is  in  "Inspiration,"  the  newest 
Garbo  picture.  Miss  Rambeau  has  been  mar- 
ried twice — to  Willard  Mack,  from  whom  she 
was  divorced  in  1917,  and  then  to  Hugh  Dill- 
man  McGaughy. 

Perciyal  and  Cholly  (believe  it  or  not!), 
SOUTH  Bend,  Ind. — You  only  want  to  know 
everything  there  is  to  know  about  Dorothy 
Jordan  and  where  has  she  been  all  your  lives? 
Well,  if  you're  not  older  than  twenty,  she's 
been  right  here  all  the  time,  because  she  was 
born  on  August  9,  1910.     Clarksville,  Tenn., 

92 


was  the  place,  and  after  graduating  from  the 
local  high  school  she  got  higher  education  for  a 
year  at  Southwestern  University.  Then  she 
went  into  musical  comedy,  and  in  1929  played 
her  first  picture  role  in  "The  Taming  of  the 
Shrew,"  co-starring  Mary  Pickford  and  Doug 
Fairbanks.  She  weighs  just  100  pounds;  is 
5  feet,  2;  has  pretty  brown  hair  and  mild  blue 
eyes.  Write  again,  and  maybe  we'll  tell  you 
more. 

Caroline,  Miami,  Fla. — Marlene  Dietrich 
was  born  in  Berlin,  the  daughter  of  a  German 
army  officer.  Her  father  planned  a  musical 
career  for  her  and  as  a  very  small  child  she 
studied  violin.  While  she  was  appearing  in  a 
musical  comedy,  Director  Josef  Von  Sternberg 
saw  her  and  gave  her  the  lead  opposite  Emil 
Jannings  in  "The  Blue  Angel,"  which  was 
made  in  Europe.  Later,  she  was  lured  to 
Hollywood,  and  her  work  in  "Morocco"  has 
brought  her  great  praise.  She  is  married  and 
has  a  pretty  little  four-year-old  daughter. 

Janet  Herman,  Omaha,  Neb. — Your  letter 
was  among  many  hundreds  I  received  asking 
the  same  question.  Here's  the  question:  "Is 
Lew  Ayres  really  married  to  Alice  Caddy,  as 
announced  by  one  of  the  fan  magazines?" 
Here's  the  answer:  "Lew  is  not  married." 
Alice  Caddy  is  the  wife  of  Ben  Lucian  Burman, 
author  of  "Mississippi."  This  story  was  pur- 
chased by  Universal  for  Lew,  and  evidently 
someone  got  the  information  all  mixed  up. 

Joseph  G.  Garanito,  Trixidad,  B.  W.  I. — 
Welcome  to  our  chatter  circle.  Thomas 
Meighan  appeared  in  one  talkie.  It  was  "The 
Argyle  Case."  Tom  is  going  to  make  two 
talkies  for  Fox,  the  first  of  which  will  be 
"Young  Sinners."  Ronald  Colman  played  the 
role  of  Lois  Moran's  father  in  "Stella  Dallas." 
David  Durand  and  Frankie  Darro  are  two 
entirely  different  young  gentlemen.  David  is  8 
and  Frank  is  10  years  old. 


Read  This  Before  Asking  Questions 

Avoid  question?  that  call  for  unduly  long  answer?, 
such  as  synopses  of  plays.  Sign  your  full  name  and 
address.  For  a  personal  reply,  a  stamped,  self- 
addressed  envelope  must  be  sent.  Address  all  in- 
quiries to  Questions  and  Answer?.  Photoplay  Maga- 
zine, 221  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City. 


Photoplay  is  printing  a  list  of  studio  addresses  and 
the  stars  located  at  each  one.  Read  it,  on  page  98, 
before  writing  to  this  department.  In  writing  to  the 
stars  for  photographs  Photoplay  advises  you  to 
enclose  twenty-five  cents,  to  cover  the  cost  of  the 
picture  and  postage. 


Bernice,  Chicago,  III. — You  have  three 
famous  stars  celebrating  their  birthdays  with 
3'ou  on  January  1st.  They  are  Marion  Davies, 
Charles  Bickford  and  William  Haines. 

A.  Crater — I'd  have  to  see  to  believe. — 
Roscoe  Ates,  the  st-tut-t-ter-ing  fellow,  wa- 
wasn't  b-b-born  that  wa-way.  He  just  does  it 
to  make  you  laugh.  And  how  you  laugh !  He 
comes  from  Mississippi,  where  he  was  bom  on 
January  20,  1895.  Is  married  and  has  one 
daughter.  His  next  big  role  is  in  "  Cimarron. " 
Watch  for  it. 

Elizabeth  and  Evelyn,  Boise,  Idaho. — So 
John  Wayne  is  the  answer  to  your  prayers. 
And  what  an  answer!  He  stands  6  feet,  2; 
weighs  200  pounds.  Has  dark  brown  hair  and 
gray  eyes.  In  his  home  town,  Winterset,  Iowa, 
where  he  was  born  23  years  ago,  he  was  called 
Duke  Morrison.  He  was  working  as  a  prop 
boy  when  Raoul  Walsh  picked  him  for  the  lead 
in  "The  Big  Trail."    And  girls,  he's  single! 

Percy  Xeimond,  Lewistowx,  Pa. — Winnie 
Lightner,  your  guiding  star  to  laughter,  was 
born  in  Greenpoint.Long  Island,  on  September 
17,  1901.  She  has  one  son  who  is  about  two 
years  old.  And  does  he  think  his  "Ma"  is 
grand ! 

R.  L.  McXamara,  Streator,  III. — You 
want  to  know  about  the  "champeen"  villain  of 
them  all,  as  you  call  him?  He's  Ralf  Harolde 
of  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  Born  May  17,  1899,  stands 
5  feet,  10;  weighs  148  and  has  dark  brown  hair 
and  eyes.  Ralf  was  on  the  stage  for  12  years 
before  he  made  his  debut  in  the  movies.  His 
latest  is  "Hook,  Line  and  Sinker." 

Terry — Of  Terry-toon. — Richard  Crom- 
well, the  lad  who  made  his  movie  debut  in 
"Tol'able  David,"  is  a  native  Californian, 
from  Los  Angeles,  to  be  exact.  He  is  20  years 
old,  5  feet,  10,  in  height;  weighs  148  and  has 
light  brown  hair  and  green  blue  eyes.  He  had 
no  previous  stage  or  screen  experience. 

F.  S..  Baraboo,  Wis. — Jason  Robards  hails 
from  Hillsdale.  Mich.,  where  he  was  born 
December  31,  1892.  He  is  5  feet.  101  g;  weighs 
170  and  has  dark  brown  hair  and  brown 
eyes.  Married  to  Agnes  Lynch  in  January, 
1929. 

Peg.,  Omaha.  Neb. — Ann  Harding  was  born 
in  Fort  Sam  Houston.  Texas:  Alexander  Gray- 
in  Wrightsville,  Penna.;  Edward  Xugent  in 
Xew  York  City;  Sally  Blane  in  Salida,  Colo.; 
and  Barbara  Stanwyck  in  Brooklyn,  X.  Y. 


PH0T0P1  w    M  \..\/i\i     FOB    1  i  iii   \iv, 


IOK    A 


/iriaota  + 


o 


mn 


M¥     HANNEQUIN     SHOWS    IVllv 

On  hi  a  Ileal  lit  ij   .skin  ran   .\laii   ijoiuki 


GUARD  ITS  HEALTH 

AT 

ii    VITAL    PLACES 

• 
/,,  France*  Ingram 

^L    i  in     row  in  ID       To  guard  against  lines 

W  ..  /'  ■■  .-.Its  here,  appi,  Mill  u  tea1  Cream, 
Stroking  tilth  fillgtrtipt,  outward  from  lie 
center  of  your  trow. 

t,    mi   mi-    If  ytm  weald  avoid  aging  crows' 

r%  feet,  smooth  Ingram's  about  the  eyes,  si  role 
with  a  (either  touch  outward,   beneath  eyes 
and  our  tjtlids. 
j.    Till.  HOI  ill       Drooping  lines  are  easily  dc- 
tT  feated  hy  filming  the  fingertips  with  my  cream 
and  sliding  tin  m  upu  ard  our  the  mouth  and 
then  outward  toward  the  can,  starling  at 
the  middle  of  the  chin. 
jl    THE  TlinoAT—  To  keep  your  throat  from 
p<  flabbiness,   cover  with  a  film  of  Milkweed 
and  smooth  gently  downward,  ending  with 
rotary  moiement  at  base  of  nuk. 
jk     rHE  NECK  —  To  prevent  a  sagging  chin  and 
™  a  lined  neck,  stroke  uith  fingertips  covered 
with  Milkweed  from  middle  of  chin  toward 
the  ears  and  patting  firmly  all  along  the 
jaw  contours. 

A    THE  SHOULDERS—  To  have  shoulders  that 
V*    sire  blemish-free  and  firmly  smooth,   cleanse 
uith   Milkweed  Cream  and  maisage  uith 
palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion. 


FIRST  and  foremost,  I  want  to  make  clear  the  vital  differ- 
ence between  my  Milkweed  Cream  and  other  fine  face 
creams. 

Milkweed  Cream  is  a  cleanser — a  wonderfully  thorough 
one.  But  that*s  not  all!  It  is  a  corrective  for  the  complexion 
as  well.  For  while  its  delicate  oils  are  gently  and  thoroughly 
coaxing  impurities  from  the  skin,  Milkweed's  special  toning 
properties  are  benefiting  skin  health.  And  it  is  this  extra 
helpfulness,  found  in  Milkweed  Cream  alone,  that  wards  off 
blemishes,  banishes  dullness  and  guards  against  aging  lines. 

Your  skin  under  the  tutelage  of  my  method  and  my  cream 
swiftly  becomes  clear — soft— smooth  — and  morning-fresh. 
It  gains  the  lovely  translucence  that  we  associate  with  youth. 

Tonight,  with  your  hand  mirror,  examine  your  skin  closely 
at  the  six  critical  places  starred  on  my  mannequin.  Be  on 
your  guard  for  the  tiniest  thread-like  line,  the  least  blemish, 
for  even  minute  imperfections  are  aging  and  "Onlva  Healthy 

INGRAM'S       Mn°* 

Frances  Ingram,  Dept.  A-21,  IOS  ^A'ashington 
Street,  New  York  City. 

Please  send  me  your  free  booklet.  "Why  Only  .1 
Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young'  ,  which  tells  in  com- 
plete detail  how  to  care  for  the  skin  and  to  guard  the 
six  vital  spots  of  youth. 


Skin  Can  Stay  Young."  Then  with  my  method  and  my  cream, 
take  the  first  step  toward  a  skin  of  everlasting  beauty. 

First  apply  Milkweed  Cream  upon  your  skin  (preceded 
by  bathing  with  warm  water  and  pure  soap  if  skin  is  oily;. 
Leave  the  cream  on  for  a  few  moments  to  allow  its  special 
cleansing  and  toning  ingredients  to  penetrate  the  pores.  Then 
pat  oft"  every  bit.  Next,  apply  a  fresh  film  of  Milkweed 
Cream  and  with  upward  and  outward  strokes  pat  into 
the  skin  at  the  six  places  starred  on  my  mannequin. 

All  drug  or  department  stores  have  Milkweed  Cream — 50<", 
Si  and  SI. "5.  If  you  have  any  special  questions  on  skin 
care,  send  for  my  booklet,  "Why  Only  a  Healthy  Skin  Can 
Stay  Young"  or  tune  in  on  "Through  the  Looking  Glass 
with  Frances  Ingram",  Tuesday,  10:15  A.M.  (E.D.T.)  on 
WjZ  and  Associated  Stations. 


k  Cream 


Stntt_ 


Oty_ 


State. 


When  yon  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PITOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


94 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


Brginning  a  A'ew  Series  by  the  Famous  Author  of 
"The  Specialist"  and  "I'll  Tell  You  Why" 


"(Bhic '  (§ale — The 

Specialist 

•    ? 

has 
Something 
to  say 
about 

the 
"good 

Old  T>ays" 


W\ 


'ELL,  Elmer,  here  we 
are  in  1931  doin' 
everything  slick  as  a  whistle.  Instead 
of  millcin'  a  cow  we  jest  put  a  bottle 
outside  our  door.  If  we  want  to  go 
somewhere  we  jest  step  on  the  starter 
instead  of  chasin',  catchin',  bridlin' 
and  saddlin'  a  horse.  When  we  shave 
we  jest  yank  out  a  safety  razor  and  zip 
'em  off  instead  of  honin',  stroppin'  and 
swearin'  at  a  straight  razor.  Every- 
thing's modern. 

Of  course  the  good  old  customs  was 
all  right  in  their  day.  But  even  the 
folks  that  think  they  are  pinin'  away 
for  them  wouldn't  give  up  electric 
lights  fer  oil  lamps.  In  this  age  and 
time  we  have  got  to  have  efficiency, 
accuracy  and  speed.  Well  sir,  the  folks 
that  use  oil  lamps  now  instead  of  elec- 
tric lights  ain't  as  far  behind  the  times 
as  the  folks  that  use  other  things  in- 
stead of  these  little  chocolate  tablets. 


'"TpHESE  little  chocolate  tablets"— mean- 

A  ing  Ex-Lax — are  to  other  laxatives  what 
the  electric  light  is  to  the  oil  lamp. 

Ex-Lax  is  the  modern  way  of  keeping 
"regular"— keeping  the  system  free  of  in- 
testinal poisons. 

Ex-Lax  is  scientific  enough  for  doctors  — 
pleasant  enough  for  children  —  effective 
enough  for  everybody. 

Not  absorbed  by  the  system;  non-habit 
forming;  won't  disturb  digestion.  Ex-Lax  is 
the  perfect  laxative  ! 

10c,  25c  and  50c  sizes  — at  all  druggists. 

Write  for  free  sample— 

ToThe  Ex-Lax  Company,  Dept.PH21,  P.O. 
Box  1 70 , Times  Plaza  Station ,  Brooklyn ,  N .  Y. 

Keep  "regular"  with 

EX- LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


These  New  Faces 

Watch    for   This    Each   Month 

JOAN  BLONDELL  ("Illicit,'*  Warners)  popped  up  and  scored  a  sensa- 
tional hit  as  Dorothy  Mackaill's  room-mate  in  "The  Office  Wife." 
Joan,  a  natural  comic,  was  born  in  New  York  City  Aug.  30,  1909. 
Her  father  and  mother  were  both  of  the  theater.  After  several 
seasons  on  the  New  York  stage — both  "Follies"  and  drama — 
Warners  signed  her. 

MARTIN   BURTON     ("Ladies'  Man,"  Paramount)  is  the  latest  answer 

JfM  IfL  to  Paramount's  search  for  handsome  and  talented  young  juveniles 

for  the  talkies.     Young  Martin  appeared  in  London  in  "The  Trial 

"  *  fttm  of  Mary  Dugan,"  and  came  to  America  to  play  in  Ethel  Barry- 

mm  more's  production  of  "The  Love  Duel."     B.  P.  Schulberg  saw  him 

in  "Death  Takes  a  Holiday,"  and  packed  him  off  to  Hollywood 

m 

HELEN  COHAN  ("Lightnin',"  Fox)  is  the  daughter  of  the  great  George 
M.  Cohan  himself.  Born  in  New  York  City,  she  studied  for  the 
stage,  and  her  famous  daddy  gave  her  pointers.  She  made  her 
debut  with  him  in  his  musical  comedy,  "Billie."  doing  imitations 
of  Pop.  While  playing  on  the  stage  in  Los  Angeles  in  "June 
Moon,"  Fox  gave  her  a  test,  and  here  she  is! 

WARREN    HYMER     ("Up  The  River,"  Fox)  is  the  son  of  John  B.  Hymer, 

^||k  co-author  of  the  famous  "East  Is  West'"  and  other  plays.    Warren 

(^^^^^\  is  twenty-four,  and  was  educated  at  Yale,  where  he  played  base- 

*  _^    - .1  ball.     After  leaving  school  he  acted  in  London  and  New  York, 

and  in  1929  went  into  Fox  pictures,  where  he  scored  immediately. 

He  married  Beau  Yasanta,  singer,  in  1929. 


EVALYN  KNAPP  ("Fifty  Million  Frenchmen,"  Warners)  is  a  beautiful 
blonde  who  appeared  in  many  Pathe  short  comedies  during  1929. 
Won  by  her  beauty  and  talent,  Warners  signed  her  to  a  term  con- 
tract to  appear  in  features.  Evalyn  was  born  in  Kansas  City 
in  1908.  She  studied  for  the  theater  in  New  York,  and  afterward 
toured  in  several  legitimate  shows. 

KENT  DOUGLASS  ("Paid,"  M-G-M)  is  really  Douglass  Montgomery, 
but  had  his  name  changed  to  avoid  conflict  with  the  better  known 
screen  Montgomery,  young  Robert,  of  the  same  company.  "Kent 
Douglass"  was  a  leading  juvenile  with  the  Acting  Company  of 
the  famous  New  York  Theater  Guild,  having  appeared  in  "Yol- 
pone,"  "Caprice"  and  other  Guild  plays.    He's  twenty-two. 

JESSIE  ROYCE  LANDIS  ("Derelict,"  Paramount)  got  her  picture 
start  opposite  George  Bancroft  in  this  film.  Jessie  is  an 
Evanston,  111.,  girl,  and  made  her  stage  debut  in  Chicago  with 
Joseph  Schildkraut  in  "The  Highwayman."  Since  then  she  has 
appeared  in  many  Broadway  plays.  She  was  educated  at  the 
Chicago  Conservatory.     She  has  brown  hair,  blue  eyes. 

GREGORY  GAYE  ("What  a  Widow:-'  United  Artists)  scored  a  sound 
comedy  hit  as  the  Russian  musician  in  this  Swanson  picture. 
And  he  is  Russian,  having  been  born  in  Petrograd  thirty  years 
ago.  He  was  a  cadet  in  the  Russian  navy,  and  later  played  on 
the  stage  in  Europe.  He  comes  naturally  by  his  theatrical  talent, 
as  his  father,  also  Gregory,  was  an  actor. 


Every  advertisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is   puarameed. 


PhOTOPI  w    M  M5AZIN1     i  OB    1  i  BK1  ak\  . 


95 


ACROSS  ON  THE  DOOR 


sealed 

the  J^) 


oom 


of  another  lion  sell  old! 


1n\  |>(  )N  u.is  i  nightmare  of  horror  that  summer.  The  Black  Death 
_^  raged  through  the  city.  Victims  died  so  fast  th.it  condemned  pris- 
oners collected  the  bodies  l>y  the  cartload. 

Terror-stricken,  the  survivors  went  to  the  most  extreme  lengths  to 
save    themselves.     The   most   drastic    regulations   were    made.   A  reil 
.   and   the  words  "God  nave  mercy  on  us,"  were  chalked  on  ths 
door  of  every  house  in  which  the  plague  had  struck. 

The  cross  on  the  dix>r  Served  as  a  warning.  But  it  was  also  a  sentence 
of  death  on  all  within,  for  no  one  was  permitted  to  leave  these  hooves. 
Shut  up  like  rats  in  a  trap,  the  well  were  condemned  to  die  with  the 
sick.  They  had  no  chance  to  escape. 

Cruel  and  inhuman?  Yes — but  only  ignorance  was  to  blame.  For  in 
vstilence  was  regarded  as  Dh  ine  vengeance  lor  sin.  Germs  were 
unheard  of,  sanitation  unknown. 

Not  l  '  years  later,  after  the  American  Civil  War,  did  the 

medical  world  discover  that  disease  and  infection  are  caused  by  germs, 

and  that  germs  can  be  killed.  Today,  science  wages  an  unceasing  war 

upon  germs,  and  one  of  its  most  effective  weapons  in  this  fight  is 

I  1 1  sinfectant. 

■lore  than  forty  years,  this  efficient  germicide  has  been  a  stand- 
by with  doctors  and  hospitals  the  world  over.  Wherever  there  is  a 
real  job  of  germ-killing  to  do,  there  you  will  find  "Lysol" — in  the  sick- 
room, in  the  operating  room — even  at  childbirth,  when  disinfection 
must  be  safe  and  thorough. 

diluted  according  to  directions,  is  non-poisonous- — yet 

all  recommended  dilutions  are  sure  germ-killers.  In  any  situation  in 

\our  own  home  where  you  have  cause  for  doubt,  play  safe  —  use 

"Lysol."  Use  it  properly  diluted  wherever  germs  are  apt  to  lurk — on 

wounds,  cuts  and  human  tissue;  in  the  household  on  telephones,  door- 

,  woodwork,  nursery  furniture,  baby's  to\  s  and  utensils. 

I     s,,l"  is  the  most  economical  disinfectant  in  the  work),  too.    A 

Uiblespoonjul  diluted  makes  jour  quarts  of  non-poisonous  disinfectant, 

every  drop  of  which  uill  kill  SOOfiOOfiOO  bacteria.  Get  a  large  bottle  of 

1         I"  from  your  druggist  today.  Use  it  every  </<-'.v  to  disinfect  while 

you  clean.  It  is  your  surest  safeguard  against  sickness  and  infection. 

Sole  Distributors:  Lehn  cY.  Fink,  I  tic,  Bloomfield,  New  Jersey. 


''LYSOL  "  for  Feminine  Hygiene 

For  forty  years,  "Lysol"  Disinfectant  has  been  the  standard  antiseptic,  de- 
pended upon  for  feminine  hygiene  by  women  throughout  the  world.  When  di- 
luted according  to  directions,  it  is  absolutely  harmless  to  humans  —  yet  its 
cleansing  and  disinfecting  action  is  so  thorough  that  it  kills  harmful  germs  under 
conditions  that  render  many  preparations  completely  ineffective. 
IN'C. 


rf 


gw'T 


Doctors  and  hospitals  the  world  over  depend  on  "Lysol"  Disinfectant  today 


iP 


Be  careful!  Countc 
"  Lysol"  are  being  offered. 
Genuine  'Lysol"  is  in  the 
brown   bottle   and  yellow 
carton    marked  '  1 


When  you  write  to  I 


mention  HIOTOrLAY  .MAGAZINE. 


96 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


discover.. with  Glazo  Talking  of 


A 


that  you  have 
lovely  hands! 


vogue  so  often  begins  with  the 
smart  and  the  youthful.  It  was  the  very 
smart  woman  and  the  young  girl  who 
first  discovered  that  with  Glazo  prepara- 
tions the  fingertips  would  be  given  that 
dramatic  perfection  which  today  de- 
mands of  a  woman's  hands. 

No  longer  is  it  enough  that  a  woman's 
fingers  be  daintily  groomed,  of  utterly 
feminine  loveliness.  They  must  be  tipped 
to  lovely  lustre  or  glowing  brilliance. 

Glazo's  immediate  success  with  the 
very  smart  has  progressed  into  the  ranks 
of  even  the  most  conservative  women ! 
Glazo  polishes  brush  on 
smoothly  and  easily,  with- 
out   piling  up   or  peeling 


or  turning  white  at  the  edges.  And  they 
are  scientifically  composed  so  that  never, 
never,  do  they  appear  faded  or  purplish 
under  trying  artificial  light. 

ThenewGlazoCuticleRemoverCreme 
(do  find  this  out  for  yourself)  gently  re- 
moves excess  cuticle  and  yet  leaves  the 
edges  of  the  oval  smooth  and  even.  Glazo 
NailWhite,  Glazo  Cuticle  Oil.GlazoNic- 
otine  Remover — all  assist  in  the  perfec- 
tion of  the  Glazo  manicure.  Use  them  all. 
Just  a  few  minutes  each  week  with 
Glazo  preparations  —  and  all  the  innate 
loveliness  of  your  hands  is  brought  out. 
Your  fingertips  are  not 
only  smart,  but  exceed- 
ingly beautiful. 


(Left) — Perfumed  Glazo  liq- 
uid polish  comes  in  this  smart 
new  package.  Natural, 
Flame,  Geranium,  or  Crim- 
son—  large  bottle,  fifty  cents. 


(Right)  —  Glazo  Cuticle  Re- 
mover Crime — new  —  gently 
removes  excess  cuticle,  leaving 
soft,  smooth  ovals  of  loveli- 
ness. Fifty  cents. 


GLAZO 


(Above)— The  famous  Glazo 
twin  packagecontains  Liquid 
Polish  and  Polish  Remover. 
Natural,  Co/or/ess,  or  Deep 
Shell,  fifty  cents. 


THE  GLAZO  COMPANY,  Inc.     Dept.  GQ-21 
191  Hudson  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
I  enclose  six  cents.  Please  send  me  samples  of  Glazo 
Liquid  Polish,  Polish  Remover,  and  the  new  Cuticle 
Remover  Creme.  (If  you  live  in  Canada,  address 
P.  O.  Box  205-1,  Montreal.) 


Name— 

Address  -.. 


Talkies 


TF  the  talkie  fanatics  have  their  way  in  Holler- 
■J-wood.  action  and  story  will  merely  be  used  on 
the  screen  as  an  excuse  to  introduce  conversa- 
tion.— The  Film  Daily. 

""THE  movies  arc-  my  racket,  not  the  stage.  I 
■*-  made  what  reputation  I've  got  right  here  in 
Hollywood,  and  here  1  stay.  I've  got  plenty  of 
money  and  no  worries.  I  get  about  a  thousand 
fan  letters  a  week,  and  if  that  shows  I'm  washed 
up.  then  I'll  start  a  laundry. — Alice  White, 
film  actress. 

'"THE  people  of  Hollywood  are  among  the  most 
■*-  charming  on  earth,  and  not  at  all  the  iniqui- 
tous horde  that  ill-informed  people  would  have 
us  believe.  They  go  to  bed  at  eleven  o'clock 
and  are  up  and  at  work  at  eight  in  the  morning. 
— John  McCormack,  singer. 

T  AM  happy  my  divorce  is  proceeding.  When 
-*-  I  am  free  I  shall  consecrate  myself  to  my  art. 
I  am  ambitious  to  do  on  the  stage  what  I 
have  already  done  in  the  movies.  For  the  time 
being  I  shall  remain  with  my  mother  at  Cape 
I'errat.  but  will  return  to  America  as  soon  as  I 
am  free. — Pola  Negri,  movie  actress. 

TF  I  were  on  the  lookout  for  a  restful  place  for 
■*-  a  tired  business  man,  I  would  recommend 
Hollywood.  The  wide  curves  of  the  hilltops 
surrounding  the  town  are  soothing  to  the  eve. 
Beautiful  young  women,  garbed  in  bright  col- 
ors, walk  briskly  in  the  blue-white  California 
light.  There  are  palm  trees  on  the  edge  of  the 
-treets;  flower  beds  in  front  of  the  h< 
hardly  any  children;  few  dogs.  The  shops  are 
modest.  There  is  refinement  and  quiet  every- 
where.   The  lights  are  out  at  nine  p.  m. 

Occasionally  somebody,  generally  a  new- 
comer to  the  picture  colony,  throws  a  wild 
party  (which  automatically  throws  him  out  of 
every  other  party)  but  that  happens  rarely  and 
is  seldom  heard  of  by  people  who  are  not  in  the 
know. — Konrad  Bercovici.  in  ''The  Delineator." 


City- 


State. 


February 
Birthdays 

February    2 — Benny  Rubin 
February-    .1 — Andy  (James  J.  Correil) 
February    5 — Monta  Bell 
February    6 — Lucille  Webster  Gleason 
February    6 — Russell  Gleason 
February    6 — Ben  Lyon 
February    6 — Ramon  Xovarro 
February    7 — Edward  Xugent 
February    8 — King  Yidor 
February    9 — Ronald  Colman 
February  10— Roy  D'Arcy 
February  10 — Harry  Beaumont 
February  12 — William  Collier,  Jr. 
February  13 — Kate  Price 
February  13 — John  Wray 
February  14 — Stuart  Erwin 
February  14 — Fred  Scott 
February'  15 — John  Barrymore 
February  IS — William  Janney 
February  16 — Chester  Morris 
February  16 — Mack  Swain 
February  17 — Mary  Brian 
February  18 — Adolphe  Menjou 
February  19 — Dorothy  Janis 
February  22 — Lew  Cody 
February  25 — Warren  Hymer 
February  27 — Joan  Bennett 


Erery  advertisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  ILiGAZIXE  Is  guarantied. 


/?1 


Photoplay   Maoazini  iuk  Febeuary,  »931 

paying 

I  he  pri<*c 

for  HER 
MOTHER'S 

MISTAKE! 


97 


Hozv  often  the  nezv  home  manager  endures  this 
wearying,  bothersome  task  .  .  .  when  millions  of  women 
have  found  a  zvay  to  let  modern  science  lift  the  load! 


^lOMETIMES  a  well-intentioned 
►^P  mother  will  advise  her  newly 
married  daughter  against  using  the 
laundry.  Perhaps  because  of  a  mis- 
taken notion  that  laundry  service  is 
expensive  or  that  "laundries  are  hard 
on  clothes." 

And  if  she  does  not  investitjate  for 
herself,  the  new  home  manager  may 
go  on  week  atter  week,  doing  her  own 


washing.  Paying  the  price  in  tired 
muscles,  worn  nerves,  a  disordered 
home,  for  her  mother's  mistake. 

Actually,  today's  laundry  service  is 
amazingly  thrifty!  The  damp  or  wet 
wash,  for  instance,  costs  hut  a  tew  cents 
a  pound.  And  the  up-to-date  laundry 
way,  using  only  rainsott  water  and  the 
multiple-suds  method,  means  safe, gen- 
tle washing  plus  absolute  cleanliness. 

Try  the  present-day  laundry  in  your 
community  this  week.  Don't  let  hear- 
sav  or  misinformed  council  keep  you  a 
Washday  Prisoner.  Sponsored  by  the 
Laundry  owners  National  Association  of 
the  United  States  and  Canada. 


Suds —  suds  —  suds  —  ■•.../   Eai  h  i  "ipy  soft-zi-ater  btth 
J  and  discarded  after  use,  eat  h  creamier  and  whiter 
than  the  one  before.    This  is  the  famous  multip.' 
method  perfected  by  the  American  Institute  of  L<:r. 
ing — million-dollar  "proving  ground"  of  the  Industry. 


kt/iel\l)\DR\c-/ort/ 


When  you  WTlte  to  sdTertisers  ple«.«e  mention  rHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


"No  more  ugly 
shine!  MELLO-GLO 
stays  on  longer  and 
gives  my  skin  a  fresh,  nat- 
ural bloom."  Miss  Desiree 
Tabor,beauti  ful  operetta  star. 


WONDERfUL 
run  POWDER 


§¥/%!§   0\   LONGER 

Beautiful  women  use  MELLO-GLO,  because  a 
new,  exclusive  French  process  makes  this  the 
finest  and  purest  face  powder  known. 

Sifted  through  close-meshed  silk,  MELLO-GLO 
spreads  with  amazing  smoothness.  Its  odor, 
delicately  fragrant.  One  natural  shade  that 
blends  perfectly  with  any  complexion,  bestow- 
ing upon  your  skin  a  fresh,  clear,  youthful  bloom. 

You  will  love  MELLO-GLO  because  it  stays  on 
longer.  Unsightly  shine  is  banished.  No  dry  or 
flaky  appearance.  No  "drawn"  feeling  or  irri- 
tation. Just  exquisite  rose-petal  beauty,  that 
feels  as  fresh  and  lovely  as  it  looks. 

MELLO-GLO  prevents  large  pores  and  coarse 
skin  texture.  If  you  wish  to  possess  and  retain 
a  girlish  complexion,  insist  on  MELLO-GLO.  One 
dollar  at  all  stores. 

For  fine,  dry  or  sensitive  skin,  ask  for  new 
light-weight  MELLO-GLO  in  blue-edged  box. 

MELLO-GLO  COMPANY  (Dept.  34) 

Statler  Bids.,  Boston,  Mass. 

Please  find  10 cents  enclosed.  Send  me  sample  of  MELLO- 
GLO  Face  Powder. 

Name 


Address. 


Kindly  write  here  name  of  your  favorite  store: 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Richard  Ariel] 
Jean  Arthur 

Bancroft 
Clara  Bow 
Mary  Brian 
Martin  Burton 
Ruth  Chatterton 
June  Collyer 
Juliette  Compton 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlene  Dietrich 
Leon  Erml 
Stuart  Erwin 
Stanley  Fields 
Kay  Francis 
Skeets  Gallagher 


Mitzi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Marcia  Manners 
Cyril  Maude 
Rosita  Moreno 
Barry  Norton 
Jack  Oakie 
Guy  Oliver 
Eugene  Palletle 
Ramon  Pereda 
William  Powell 
Charles  Rogers 
Stanley  Smith 
Regis  Toomey 
Fay  Wray 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Luana  Alcaniz 
Robert  Ames 
Michael  Bartlett 
Warner  Baxter 
Humphrey  Bogart 
El  Brendel 
Lucile  Browne 
Robert  Burns 
Joan  Castle 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Joyce  Compton 
Roxanne  Curtis 
Fin  Dorsay 
Charles  Farrell 
John  Garrick 
Janet  Gaynor 
C.  Henry  Gordon 
Louise  Huntington 
Warren  Hymer 
Keating  Sisters 
Richard  Keene 
Jane  Keith 
Nancy  Kelly 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
Elissa  Landi 


Dixie  Lee 
Marion  Lessing 
George  Lewis 
Myrna  Ley- 
Ed  mund  Lowe 
Claire  Luce 
Sharon  Lynn 
Leslie  May 
Jeanette  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 
Frances  McCoy 
Victor  McLaglen 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Lois  Moran 
J.  Harold  Murray 
George  O'  Brien 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Nat  Pendleton 
Will  Rogers 
David  Rollins 
Jillian  Sand 
John  Swor 
Lee  Tracy 
Spencer  Tracy 
Ruth  Warren 
John  Wayne 
Marjorie  White 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Amos  and  Andy 
Henry  Armetta 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Evelyn  Brent 
Sue  Carol 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Betty  Compson 
Ricardo  Cortez 
Bebe  Daniels 
John  Darrow 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Eddie  Foy,  Jr 
Noel  Francis 
Ralf  Harolde 


Hugh  Herbert 
Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Everett  Marshall 
Joel  McCrea 
Jack  Mulhall 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Roberta  Robinson 
Lowell  Sherman 
Katya  Sorina 
Ned  Sparks 
Leni  Stengel 
Bert  Wheeler 
Robert  Woolsey 


Warner  Bros.  Studios,  5842  Sunset  Blvd. 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Noah  Beery 
Joan  Blondell 
Joe  E.  Brown 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Claudia  Dell 
Irene  Delrov 
Robert  Elliott 
Frank  Fay- 


John  Halliday 
Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
Marian  Marsh 
Edward  Morgan 
Olsen  and  Johnson 
Barbara  Weeks 
Jack  Wliiting 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Joan  Bennett 
Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ronald  Colman 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 
AI  Jolson 


Evelyn  Lave 
June  MacCloy 
I'na  Merkel 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swan  son 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St 


Richard  Cromwell 
stance  Cummings 

Ralph  Graves 
lack  Holt 
Buck  Junes 
Margaret  Livingston 


Bert  Lytell 
Dorothy  Revier 
Dorothy  Sebastian 
Miriam  Seegar 
Barbara  Stanwyck 


Culver  City,  Calif. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


William  Bakewell 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Edwina  Booth 
John  Mack  Brown 
Lenore  Bushman 
Harry  Carey- 
Joan  Crawford 

■  e»po 
Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny- 
Kent  Douglas* 
Marie  Dressier 
Cliff  Edwards 
Julia  Faye 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
William  Haines 
Hedda  Hopper 
Lotlice  Howell 
Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Arnold  Korff 
Andre  Luguet 

Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  and  Russell 
Gleason 


Hal  Roach  Studios 


Ellen  McCarthy 
Joan  Marsii 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
ConchitaMontenegro 
Robert  Montgomery 
Grace  M 
Polly  Moran 
Catherine  Moylan 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Edward  Nugent 
Anita  Page 
Lucille  Pc 
Marie  Prevost 
Marjorie  Rambeau 
Duncan  Renaldo 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett' 
Ernest  Torrence 
Raquel  Torres 
:  Vail 


Ann  Harding 
Eddie  Quillan 
Helen  Twelvetrees 


Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 


Universal  City,  Calif. 
Universal  Studios 


Margaret  Adams 
Lew  Ayres 
John  Boles 
Hoot  Gibson 
Bela  Lugosi 
Charles  Murray 


Mary  Nolan 
George  Sidney- 
Slim  Summerville 
Genevieve  Tobin 
Lupe  Velez 
John  Wray 


Burbank,  Calif. 
First  National  Studios 


Richard  Barthelmess 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Glenda  Farrell 
Joe  Frisco 
Walter  Huston 
Fred  Kohler 
Dorothy  Mackaill 


David  Manners 
Marilyn  Miller 
Ona  Munson 
Dorothy  Peterson 
James  Rennie 
Otis  Skinner 
Loretta  Young 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Clive  Brcok 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Ina  Claire 
Claudette  Colbert 
Norman  Foster 
Miriam  Hopkins 


Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Ginger  Rogers 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrett 
Ed  Wynn 


Hollywood,  Calif.; 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire.  1212  Gower  St. 
Lloyd  Hughes.  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd,  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy.  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Jackie  Ccocan,  673  S.  Oxford  Ave. 
Pat  O'Malley,  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson.  1735  Highland  St. 
Ruth  Roland.  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor,  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Grav,  22  E.  60th  St..  New  York 

William  S.  Hart.  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsy    Ruth    Miller,    80S    Crescent    Drive,    Beverly 

Hills.  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane  request  that  their 

mail  be  sent  to  them  in  Beverly  Hills.  Calif.     No 
is  necessary. 


Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


_ 


PHOTOPI  w    M  10A21N1    i"i     ■  IBY,    193! 


99 


Certain 

Sou /cone's  Heart 
Stood  Still-  - 


J 


kNET  had  dreamed  >>(  a  dresa  like  t his — 

a  dress  so  lovel\    thai  a  certain  -oineone  niii-l   linn  ami 

look.  solovert  thai  per  hape  for  Just  one  little  moment 
a  certain  Bomeone'a  bearl  would  stand  quite  BtilL  She 
knew  she  could  never,  aever  save  enough  to  buy  the 
dress  of  her  dreams,  for  Janet'a  Balarj  wraa  $25  a  wick. 

I\\en  saving  >.">  a  week.  I  In-  die--  was  weeks  ami  weeks 
ami  month-  aw  a\  . 

\ml  then,  just  when  the  dresa  ami  the  someone — 
seemed  further  off  than  e\er.  the  mOSl  wonderfnl  thing 
had   happened.   She  had   learned   that   now    there  was  a 

simple  wav  bj  which  ah* — yea,  Janet  who  had  never 
sewn  a  stiteh  in  her  life — could  create  for  herself  all  the 
clothes  her  heart  desired.  There  was  a  little  shop  just  a 
short  distance  from  home,  with  every  convenience  one 

could  want  and  a  teacher  who  knew  ju-t  e\er\  thing,  and 
the  cleverest  electric  machines  that  ran  like  a  hree/e  and 

stitched  the  seams  bo  quickly.  Why,  it  was  really  fun! 

Janet's  heart   Bang  that   morning  when,  after  only  a 

lew  bappj  lessons  at  the  Bchool,  she  wore  to  the  office 

the  verv  first  die--  -he  had  ever  made  and  the  fjirls 
-warmed  around  to  a-k  her  where  -he  had  boughl  it. 
'Then  .-he  knew  that  the  die--  of  her  dream-  would  really 
come  true — and  it  did. 

She  chose  a  design  from  among  hundred-  in  the  inaga- 
sines.  She   found   the  most   ravishing   piece  of  material 

one  adventurous  noon-hone.  Three  never-forgotten  eve- 
nings she  spent  in  the  fashioning  of  it.  reluctant  e\  en  to 
go  to  bed.  There  was  a  thrill,  loo.  when  -he  found  that 

the  total  cost  w.i-  less  than  twelve  dollars. 

Hut  best  of  all  wa-  tin-  little  catch  in  her  own  throat 
when,  at  the  party,  a  certain  -oineone  did  -lop  and  look 
— ami  look  again — and   then  came  Straight  to  take  her 

hand-  in  his. 

•  •  • 


I  ferj  day  more  ^irl-  an-  dis- 
c<>\  ering  the  happiness  of  mak- 
ing their  own  clothes.  Modern 
patterns,  modern  methods  ami 
the  modern  Singer  Electric  have 
changed  a  once  tedious  task  to 
the  kind  of  fun  no  pirl  will  \%  ant 
tomiss.Once  von  know  bow  easy 
it  is,  you,  too,  wiD  be  planning 
tin-  lovely  clothes  yon  thooghl 
m>h  never  could  afford. 

Perhaps  all  \  on  need  is  the 
confidence  that  comes  with  mak- 
ing 1  -t  one  tire--.  If  so.  the 
nearesl  Singer  Sew  ing  School  i- 
read)  to  help  without  one  cent 
of  cost  to  you.  Yon  will  find 
waiting  there  the  sympathetic, 


friendly    interest  of  an  expert 

teacher    anil    the    finest    sewing 

equipment  for  your  use.  You  will 
be  shown  how  to -elect  designs, 

fabrics  ami  color-  that  are  imh- 
\  idu.ilU   becoming  to  von. Then 

step  bj  step  ><>u  will he  shown 
how  to  lay  out  your  pattern, 
cut  out  vour  materials,  and 
complete!)  make,  lit  and  finish 

the  dre--  of  Tour  choice.  In 
ju-t  a  few  afternoon-  orevc- 
ningS    y  OU   will    learn 

those    easy    modern 

method-  that  w  ill  make 
forever  simple  the  cre- 
ation of  y  ourow  n  -mart 
clothe-. 


SINGER  SEWING  SCHOOLS 

Conducted  l>\  Six.iu  SKWINC  >I.\<"1II.>E  CO. 


Copyripht  U.  S.  A.  1930-1931.  by  the  Singer  Manufacturing  Co. 
All  rights  reserved  for  all  countries. 


If  you  would  like  t<>  know  hmv  you  run  learn  to  moke 
your  own  dresses,  free,  nt  the  nearest  Singer  Setting] 
School,  >inif>lv  telephone  or  call  nt  the  Singer  Shop  in 
your  community.  Or  mend  the  coupon  below  and  full 
information  about  this  new  plan  will  come  to  von  nt  once. 


SINGES   SEWING    MACHINE   Co..  INC 

l)r,.i.  It- 1  la.  -11, Crr  Bid*.       Nawl  ark.  N.  1  . 

I'lr.iv   tell  me    about    the    Sinrer    Sewing 
I  nrarr-t   nn    home  and  how    I   n>a\    li.or 
fr»*c  I—Huual  in-lrurt  i.m. 

,V'i  rnr- 

SV.vf 

(  ,i Staff 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  rilOTOri-AY  MAGAZINE. 


IOO 


I'iiotoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


Adds  Glossy 

JuUStXB,  leaves  your  hair 

Easy  to  manage 

IF  you  want  to  make  your  hair . . .  easy 
to  .iianage  .  . .  and  add  to  its  natural 
gloss  and  lustre  .  .  .  this  is  very  easy 
to  do. 

Just  put  a  few  drops  of  Glostora  on  the 
bristles  of  your  hair  brush  .  . .  and  brush 
it  through  your  hair. .  .when  you  dress  it. 

You  will  be  surprised  at  the  result.  It 
will  give  your  hair  an  unusually  rich, 
silky  gloss  and  lustre— instantly. 

Glostora  simply  makes  your  hair  more 
beautiful  by  enhancing  its  natural  wave 
and  color. 

Sets  Hair  Quickly 

It  keeps  the  wave  and  curl  in,  and 
leaves  your  hair  so  soft  and  pliable,  and 
so  easy  to  manage,  that  ....  it  will 
stay  any  style  you  arrange  it  ...  . 
even  after  shampooing — whether  long  or 
bobbed. 

A  few  drops  of  Glostora  impart  that 
bright,  brilliant,  silky  sheen,  so  much 
admired,  and  your  hair  will  fairly  sparkle 
and  glow  with  natural  gloss  and  lustre. 
A  large  bottle  of 
Glostora  costs  but  a 
trifle  at  any  drug  store 
or  toilet  goods  counter. 
Try  it! — You  will  be 
delighted  to  see  how 
jlosToraJ^H  much  more  beautiful 
your  hair  will  look,  and 
how  easy  it  will  be  to 
wave  and  manage. 


Your  Mid-Winter  Complexion 


[  CONTINUED  1KOM  PAGE  16  j 


Glostora^ 


dogging  your  ports  and  making  them  inactive, 
defeating  the  purpose  of  the  preparations  you 
arc  using. 

Perhaps  you  are  trying  to  get  along  without 
any  complexion  helps,  when  one  or  two  care- 
fully selected  ones  would  add  to  your  comfort, 
to  say  nothing  of  improving  your  looks.  Per- 
haps you  are  scrubbing  your  face  too  hard  and 
making  it  super-sensitive. 

Jake  a  good,  long  look  in  the  mirror  today, 
even  if  you  do  have  to  brace  yourself  for  a 
shock !  Try  to  determine  just  what  it  is  your 
skin  requires,  and  then  map  out  a  little  cam- 
paign  to  protect  it  against  cold  and  wind.  If 
you  need  some  help,  go  to  a  beauty  salon.  Or, 
if  that  isn't  possible,  write  me  about  your 
problem.    I'll  be  happy  to  advise  you. 

Ethel: 

Dorothy  Mackaill  frequently  wears  white  for 
formal  wear,  being  partial  to  satin  in  the 
slightly  off-white  shades.  If  she  has  a  favorite 
color  for  the  street,  my  guess  is  dark  blue.  It's 
extremely  becoming  to  her  and  she  wears  it  a 
great  deal. 

Helen  Twelvetrees  likes  red — cherry  or  car- 
mine for  evening,  and  more  subdued  wine-red 
for  daytime.  She  also  likes  tan  and  beige  for 
the  street. 

If  you  and  your  friend  Mary  are  like  these 
actresses  in  type  and  coloring,  this  information 
will  undoubtedly  help  you  to  select  clothes.  I 
am  happy  to  be  able  to  pass  it  along  to  you. 

Bee: 

Perhaps  when  you  were  acquiring  that  sun 
tan  last  summer  you  neglected  to  protect  your 
eyes  from  the  sun's  glare.  Eyestrain  is  often 
responsible  for  those  line  wrinkles  under  the 
eyes.  I  think  you  should  consult  an  oculist 
first,  so  the  rause  can  be  treated.  The  eye  packs 
and  nourishing  cream  will  also  help.     Don't 


worry  alx>ut  it.  You  are  young,  and  with  proper 
treatment  the  condition  can  be  eradicated. 

If  your  sun  tan  persists,  continue  to  use  a 
corresponding  shade  of  powder  and  a  touch  of 
carmine  rouge  and  lipstick. 

Mrs.  F.  L.  M.: 

A  beautiful  girl  like  your  sister  is  apt  to 
arouse  jealousy  among  less  fortunate  women 
who  might  better  be  making  the  most  of  their 
own  good  points,  mental  and  physical.  I  think 
she  is  foolish  to  let  it  bother  her  and  to  think  of 
having  her  lovely  light  hair  dyed.  Tell  her  how 
much  wiser  it  would  be  to  try  not  to  resent  the 
comments  of  other  girls,  but  to  make  as  many 
friends  as  possible  among  them  and  win  them 
over  by  her  charm  and  tact.  A  pretty  girl 
needs  to  cultivate  diplomacy  and  a  genuinely 
tolerant  attitude  toward  less  favored  girls. 
Surely,  with  such  a  gift  of  beauty,  your  sister 
can  afford  to  be  generous  and  kind  to  others. 

Berxice: 

If  your  arms  are  naturally  stout  you  can't 
reduce  them  a  great  deal  without  losing  weight 
generally.  But  you  can  firm  the  flesh  and 
make  them  more  symmetrical  by  practicing 
the  simple  arm  exercises  contained  in  my  reduc- 
ing booklet.  Just  send  me  a  self-addressed, 
stamped  envelope  with  your  request.  There  is 
no  charge  for  this  booklet. 

Sweet  Slxteex: 

I'm  afraid  I  can't  sympathize  with  you. 
What  if  your  nose  does  turn  up  a  bit  at  the  end? 
Prettiness  doesn't  depend  upon  perfect  features. 
If  it  did,  what  would  become  of  most  of  us! 
Little  irregularities  in  features  frequently  add 
piquancy  to  a  face.  Just  live  up  to  that  pert, 
cunning  nose  by  being  gay  and  full  of  fun. 
There  are  so  many  good  times  in  store  for  a 
girl  of  sixteen! 


"Pee- Wee"  gets  a  permanent!    Frances  Dee,  pretty  Paramount  player, 

takes  her  pup  to  Hollywood's  new  beautifying  salon  especially  designed 

for  the  smart  canine  world  of  the  film  colony.    "Pee-Wee"  is  being  very, 

very  brave  about  it  all 

Even  idrertlacmenl  in  PIIOTOl'LAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


PH0T0PLA1    MaGAZINI    H'K   February,    19.il 


1')  1 


J\n    In n ovation    or     World- \V  id e 
Importance    to    Wo  in  en 


1   It  n  t    Ban  is  lie  8    All     Chafing,    All     Discomfort     irom     Wo  m  cms        [yd 


I  C  II  c 


Sew     and     Totally     Different 
Sanitary  Protection  .  .  .  Pure  Rayon 

Cellulose  Filled 
Soft     and     Gentle     as     [luffed    Sill? 
■And   .  .  tffective    3    Times   Longer 

THERE  is    now    an    utterly    new  and 
totally  different  hygiene  for  women. 

N'ot  merely  another  sanitary  pad,  hut  an 
invention  of  world-wide  importance. 

An  entirely  new  kind  of  a  sanitary  napkin 
made  possible  by  a  new  mechanical  in- 
vention. It  is  New  in  design.  New  in 
material.  New  and  remarkable  in  the 
results  that  it  giv 

Women  by  the  thousands  are  discarding 

other  type  sanitary  methods  and  adopting 
it.  For  it  has  two  outstanding  advair 
every  woman  is  quick  to  understand  and 
appreciate. 

Brings  Poise  and  Comfort 
Patented  under  U.  S.  Patents  (U.  S.  Pat. 
No.    1702530)   it  is  different  from   any 


other  pad.  It  is  unique  in  its  results. 
When  you  buy  your  first  box  of  Veldown 
just  open  one  of  the  pads  and  examine 
it.  You  will  note  that  it  is  filled  with 
pure  Rayon  Cellulose.  Soft  as  fluffed 
silk;  not  mere  layers  cf  crepe  papir  as  used 
in  old-type  methods. 

You  will  see  from  its  construction  why 
it  cannot  chafe  or  irritate.  Hence,  no 
more  discomfort,  no  more  irritation  from 
wearing  a  sanitary  pad  I  Consider 
what  this  means. 

Its  softness  is  the  gentle  softness  of 
Fluffed  Silk.  Its  "feel,"  gives  you  a  con- 
trast that  will  turn  you  forever  from 
the  irritating  old  ways.  Try  it.  'What 
you  find  will  amaze  you. 

l-v'/rrs  Longer  Comfort 
This  new  invention  also  makes  Veldown  5 
or  more  times  more  absorbent  than  other 
sanitary   methods  now  known  or  ever 
known  to  women. 

Thus  it  can  be  worn  in  complete  safety 
and   protection  hours  longer  than  other 


sanitary  methods.  Consider,  too,  what 
this  means. 

It  is  specially  treated  witli  a  deodorant 
of  great  power — and  thus  ends  even 
slightest  danger  of  embarrassment.  Dis- 
cards, of  course,  easily  as  tissue. 

I       j>l  I'rinl 

today  to  any  drug  or  depart- 
ment store.  Obtain  a  b"X  of  Veldown. 
Use  -ix.  Then  —  if  you  don't  feel  that  it 
is  a  Vast  and  Great  [mprovement  on 
any  other  pad  you  have  ever  worn, 
return  the  box  —  and  receive  your  full 
purchase  price  bark.  f>>R 

VELDOWN     COMPANY,     In.  . 

2 JO  E.  Und  Street.  New  York  City 

On4  of  th*  Divisions  of  th*  International  Paper  «C- 
Potctr  Company 


/ 


eldoitii 

FOR  EVERY  WOMAN 


When  you  write  to  idvcrtiscrs  rleise  mention  rnOTOri.AT  MAGAZINE. 


I()2 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


Such  knowledge 
is  too  vital  to 
be  hushed 


Brickbats  and  Bouquets 


.  .  .  and  this  one  small 
booklet  will  tell  you 

GRADUALLY  the  fact  dawns  upon  the  young 
wife.  Her  married  friends  are  showing  reluc- 
tance to  discuss  one  particular  subject  frankly. 
Surely  they  are  her  friends.  She  has  always 
counted  on  them.  And  now  they  seem  to  be  fail- 
ing her  when  she  has  joined  their  ranks  and 
needs  the  help  of  their  experience. 
Many  women  are  so  confused  about  feminine 
hygiene  that  they  fear  to  advise  others.  But 
don't  worry.  The  knowledge  you  seek  is  too 
vital  to  be  hushed  and  an  authoritative  booklet 
has  been  prepared  for  your  guidance. 

The  old-time  fear  of  poisons 

There  was  a  time  when  caustics  and  poisons  were 
the  only  antiseptics  strong  enough  for  feminine 
hygiene.  Much  as  doctors  approved  of  surgical 
cleanliness  they  did  not  approve  of  bichloride  of 
mercury  and  compounds  of  carbolic  acid.  Women 
didn't  like  them  either.  And  when  they  discover 
Zonite,  when  they  realize  the  difference,  all  the 
old-fashioned  fear  leaves  at  once  and  forever! 

Zonite  is  safe  as  pure  water 

Zonite  is  not  caustic.  Zonite  is  not  -poisonous.  It  can 
never  cause  mercurial  poisoning;  nor  produce 
areas  of  scar-tissue;  nor  interfere  with  normal 
secretions.  It  is  actually  soothing  to  membranes. 
Yet — Zonite  is  really  jar  more  powerful  than  any 
dilution  of  carbolic  acid  that  may  be  allowed  on  the 
body.  And  in  addition  Zonite  has  remarkable 
qualities  as  a  deodorant. 

Send  coupon  today  for  book  of  information  and 
instruction.  It  is  called  "The  Newer  Knowledge 
of  Feminine  Hygiene."  It  is  complete  and  reveal- 
ing. Zonite  Products  Corporation,  Chrysler 
Bldg.,  New  York. 

In  bottles: 

30c,  60c,  $1.00 

Both  in  U.  S.  A, 

and  Canada 


ZONITE  rRODl/CI'S  CORPORATION  PH-12 

C  hrysler  Building,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  mc  free  copy  of  the  Zonite  booklet  or  booklets 
checked  below. 

□  The  Newer  Knowledge  of  Feminine  Hygiene 

fj  Use  of  Antiseptics  in  the  Home 

Name 

(PUaji  print  namf) 

AddreM 

Ciry State 

(In  Canada:  165  Duffcrin  St..  Toronto) 


.  imld  FROM  PAGE  10  . 


She's  Emphatic! 

Hamilton,  Ont. 

Ramon  Novarro  is  absolutely  the  greatest 
actor  and  singer  on  the  screen,  and  if  you  don't 
think  so  go  and  see  a  doctor  as  you  must 
certainly  be  in  need  of  one. 

Mrs.  Dick 

Clara,  Can  You  Do  It  ? 

Milton,  Mass. 

If  Paramount  will  only  forget  about  the 

Navy   and   purchase   a   good   story   for   the 

emotional  Clara  Bow  she  will  undoubtedly  rise 

far  above  Garbo,  Chatterton  and  Ann  Harding. 

Bradford  Hutchinson 

We'll  Take  the  Bet 

Racine,  Wis. 

Won't  some  producer  dare  to  make  a  grand 
opera  complete?    I'd  bet  on  his  success. 

Mrs.  L.  M.  Haas 

Dorothy  Predicts — 

Pelham,  N.  Y. 

To  my  mind  the  three  most  attractive 
younger  actors  are  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr., 
Raymond  Hackett  and  Phillips  Holmes.  They 
will  be  the  leading  stars  in  filmdom  five  years 
from  now. 

Dorotity  Foster 

We  Too,  Bob! 

Bowling  Green,  Ky. 

Talkies  brought  a  new  thrill  to  me,  and  yet 
tonight  I  wish  I  might  sit  in  a  theater  and 
watch  John  Gilbert  make  love  to  Greta  Garbo 
in  blessed  silence  and  imagine  for  myself  what 
he  whispers  in  her  ear. 

Robert  0.  Mtjnm 

Beal  Restraint 

Lansdowne,  Penna. 

I  refuse  to  issue  a  wholesale  condemnation 
of  music  on  the  screen  simply  because  the  poor 
musical  films  have  so  greatly  outnumbered  the 
good  ones. 

L.  W.,  Jr. 

Some  "Trail!" 

Detroit,  Mich. 

Raoul  Walsh's  picture,  "The  Big  Trail"  is 
without  exception  the  greatest,  most  inspira- 
tional picture  I  have  seen  for  many  a  moon. 

The  acting  is  splendid,  the  settings  magnifi- 
cent, the  direction  excellent.  This  superb 
picture  demonstrates  effectively  the  possibili- 
ties of  moving  picture  art.  More  artistic  and 
dramatic  masterpieces  such  as  this  and  fewer 
slapstick  comedies  and  petty  and  trite  love 
affairs  would  serve  to  change  the  "fed-up" 
attitude  of  a  critical  and  bored  public  toward 

the  talkies. 

Marie  D.  Meyer 

Well,  What? 

Columbus,  Ohio 

I  wouldn't  sit  through  one  of  Maurice 
Chevalier's  pictures  if  I  got  paid  for  it. 


I  think  he  has  the  most  tiresome  and  arti- 
ficial smile.    Can't  something  be  done  about  it? 
Betty  Tuttle 

He  Certainly  Could 

Jeannette,  Penna. 

What  a  grand  personality! 

Chevalier  could  make  us  cry  our  eyes  out  if 
he  were  given  a  role  which  required  him  to 
portray  a  few  pathetic  scenes. 

Vernon  Roberts 

We'll  Bite.     Why? 

Glastonbury,  Conn. 

Why  do  they  insist  on  putting  some  slap- 
stick comedy  into  almost  every  picture  and 
thereby  spoiling  what  would  probably  have 
been  a  perfect  picture? 

Eva  Vabhi 

She  Comes  to  Bury  Caesar 

Chicago,  111. 

I  read  the  critics'  praise  of  Greta  Garbo's 
voice — its  "mellow  huskiness" — and  wonder. 
To  me  it  is  coarse  and  thick. 

In  "Anna  Christie"  it  fitted  the  character, 
but  in  "Romance"  this  so-called  "mellow 
huskiness"  was  as  much  in  keeping  with  an 
Italian  opera  diva  as  a  high  tenor  would  be  to 
Victor  McLaglen.  I  bury  my  Garbo  with 
regret.    With  that  voice,  she's  dead  to  me. 

L.  Haines 

Time  Will  Tell 

Gooding,  Idaho 

Are  the  talkies  becoming  too  noisy?  Sound 
pictures  are  here  to  stay  and  put  before  us 
much  that  could  not  be  given  in  silence,  but 
producers  should  slow  down  or  soon  the  talkic< 
will  be  nothing  but  cheap  vaudeville. 

Would  a  silent  be  accepted  once  in  a  while, 
or  is  the  technique  gone  forever? 

H.  V.  McCoy 

Keep  It  Pure! 

Niagara  Falls,  N.  V. 

In  "A  Lady  Surrenders"  Genevieve  Tobin 
messed  up  a  perfectly  beautiful  little  drama 
by  her  affected  speech. 

I  love  the  King's  English,  but  don't  you 
think  a  pure  American  accent  is  better  than  a 
jargon  which  is  neither  one  thing  nor  the  other? 
S.  T.  Graham 

Make  'Em  Move! 

East  Orange,  N.  J. 

The  principal  requisite  of  the  silent  photo- 
play was  that  it  should  move.  This  is  also 
necessary  in  the  phonoplay. 

The  producers,  nevertheless,  seem  to  have 
forgotten  this  most  important  fact.  Surfeited 
with  dialogue  which  slows  the  action  to  zero. 
the  pictures  today  are  nothing  more  or  less 
than  photographed  stage  plays.  Action  must 
still  be  the  predominant  factor,  with  dialogue 
playing  a  subordinate  part  in  the  drama. 

When  the  producers  are  impressed  with  the 
importance  of  this  requirement,  we  shall  see 
the  phonoplay  rivalling  the  old  silent  film  in 
effect.  But  until  then  the  talking  picture  must 
mark  time. 

Rola.no  O.  Clark 


Even  adTerttoemenl  in  niOTOrLAT  magazine  Is  gnarurteed. 


Photoplay  Maca; 


i  o 


H 


ere  s 


A  Pi 


ofN 


ews 


An  amazing  new  discovery,  Packers  Scalptone,  will  revolutionize 


h 


ome-care  o 


f  the  h 


air 


When  I  was  fir-t  consulted  al»out 
tliis  wonderful  new  preparation  for 
hair  I  said  t«>  myself,  "'Why  <lnl 
nobody  ever  think  of  this  before?" 
B  cause,  while  it's  an  absolutely 
new  idea,  it's  m  sensible 

Now  —  a  prescription  for 

just  your  hair 

iade  by  the  makers  >>f 
P     kef's  Tar  S  a  new  kind  of 

tonic  u  hit  h  Hon  modify  to  suit  ffoar 
ouii  hair  ami  scalp.  Scalptone  can 
be  astrii  ■  ■  t  for  oily  hair  ...  or 
slightly  oily  for  dry  hair  ...  or  a- 
oily  as  you  need  for  a  ri/  dry  liair. 
At  your  druggist's,  you  merely  ask 
for  Packer's  Scalptone.  Then  you 
yourself  make  your  own  prescrip- 
tion a  itli  the  aid  of  the  very  simple 
directions  with  each  bottle. 

Is  your  hair  oily  —  dry  — 

very  dry? 

Now  it's  obvious  that  no  single 
tonic,  j ii— t,  as  it  comes  from  tin- 
bottle,  can  lie  exactly  right  for  all 
kinds  of  hair.    So  the  chemists  of 

the  Packer  Company  got  to  work 
and  solved  the  problem. 

In  the  neck  of  every  bottle  of 
Scalptone,  there's  a  little  tube.  In 
the  tnlx?  is  oil  of  sweet  almonds 
which,  yon  know,  is  recommended 
for  scalps  that  tend  to  be  dry. 


otthi, 
■  tub. 
•  your 
ption 
n  hdir. 


pat- 
you 


If  your  hair  is  i  iu  won't 

mill  t  hia  oil.    ^  on  simply 
Scalptone,  just  as  it  comes  in  the 
bottle,  into  your  scalp,  to  tighten 
ii|i  t  I  glands. 

If  \  our  at  alp  i,  (lightly  dr 
uncork    the    tube,    and    jMiur    ju-t 

enough  oil  into  the  Scalptone  to 

make  it  rijdit  for  your  hair.  And  if 
your  hair  i-,  very  dry,  you  may  want 
to  add  the  whole  amount  of  oil  to 
Scalptone.   There!    J '  I 

know  it's  simple  hut  I  know,  too. 
the  amazing  results  it  has. 

Packer's  Scalptone  will  help  keep 
your  .scalp  young,  vigorous,  func- 
tioning properly.  Massage  it  well 
into  the  scalp— every  day;  and  fed 
it  stimulate  and  tone  up  those  thou- 
sands of  tiny  cells  in  the  scalp  mus- 
cles. Scalptone  is  antiseptic  tot 
that  it  is  very  helpful  in  cases  of 
local   infection   like  dandruff.    As 

your  scalp  prow -,   healthier,   you'll 
our  hair  take  on  new 
sheen,  new  life,  new  beauty. 

If  your  druggist  hasn't  Scalptone 
•  ml  me  hi-  name  and  ad- 
dre>s   ami    I'll    try    to   sec-   that    he 
carries  it  for  you. 

JEAN  CABBOL L 


PACKER'S      Scalptone 

Made  by  the  makers  of  Packer's  Tar  Soap 

Hair-beauty    depends    on    scalp-nealtn 


Home  Treatments  (or  Hair  Beauty 


oily  hair: 

Just  u  often  as  your  hair  pets 
oily,  even  if  it  s  only  a  few  days 
since  your  last  shampoo,  sham- 
poo again  with  Packer's  Tine  Tar 
Shampoo.  This  shampoo  is  made 
lly  for  oily  hair;  it  will 
leave  your  hair  soft  and  Huffy. 
Between  ahampi  ire  with 

Scalptone,  the  wonderful  new- 
Packer  tonic  which  each  user  can 
modify  to  suit  just  her  hair.  If 
your  hair  is  very  oily,  Scalptone 
can  be  an  astringent  tot 
explanation  above).  It  will  help 
the  oil  glands  to  normal. 

dry  hair: 

Shampoo  every  two  weeks  T 
larly    with     Packer's    ()li\e     Oil 
Shampoo.    This  olive  oil  sham- 


pine  tar.    After  these  four  sham- 
ihampoo  every  three  or  four 
a  week. 
Along  with   Tar  Soap   Sham- 
-the    mar- 
velous new  tonic  which  you  can 
modify  to  suit  just  your  hair.    If 
your  hair  is  dry,  read  the  easy 


-    made   especially    for   dry 

hair.  It  contains  nften- 

cerine  and  leaves  your  hair 

•  r  to  mam  f      1 

day  apply  Scalptone  with  good 

Scalptone  is 

the  new  Packer  tonic,  the  first 
tonic  I  ever  heard  of  that  you  can 
modify  to  suit  just  your  hair. 
Scalptone,  modified  .■ 
the  very  simple  directions  on  the 
bottle,  will  supply  the  natural  oil 
your  hair  lacks. 

dandruff: 

For  years  Packer's  Tar  Siap  has 
been  tin-  standard  treatment  for 
dandruff,  and  if  you'll  start  with 
four  daily  shampoos  with  Packer's 
Tar  Soap,  you'll  see  for  3 
how  much  dandruff  germs  hate 


When  tou  write  to  Jdrenlsers  please  mention  rHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


directions  which  come  with  the 
Scalptone  bottle.  Then  you  can 
make  up  a  simple  prescription  to 
help  you  remedy  over-di1 
If  your  hair  is  oily,  you  will  use 
Scalptone  in  an  astringent  form. 
^  ou  II  find  S  t  help 

for  your  dandruff.    Its  antiseptic 
qualities  ar> 
dandruff  germs. 

LET    ME     SEND    YOU 
SAMPLES 

For  10c  in  coin  1 11  be  glad  to  send 
you  a  aaraplc  of  either  of  the  two 
PACKER  Liquid  Shampoo*  or 
the  Tar  Soap.  For  25r  I  will  send 
you  samples  of  all  three.  If  you 
want  a  full-size  bottle  of  Scalp- 
tone. enclose  $1  with  your  note. 
Address  Jean  Carrcll.  The  Packer 
Mfg.  Co..  Inc..  Dept.  16-B,  101 
W.  31st  Street.  New  York. 


104 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


ifwt  c/ea/i 


aiilck-dhulna  lotiorL 


It  s  so  easy  to  Jteep  your  lianas 
and  skin  smootli,  white  and 
lovely,  despite  housework  and 
weatlier,wben  you  use  Cnamter- 
lain  s  Aland  .Lotion.  J.  lie  clear 
liquid  requires  no  bothersome 
massage.  It  penetrates  quickly, 
dries  almost  instantly  and  guards 
the  pores  like  an  invisible  glove  . 
(chamberlains  is  not  at  all 
sticky,  greasy  or  gummy.  Its 
orange  blossom  Iragrance  is  de- 
lightful. Use  a  lew  drops,  alter 
your  hands  are  in  water,  belore 
you  go  outdoors  and  at  bedtime, 
to  reveal  and  preserve  the  beauty 
ol  your  hands  and  skin.  Excel- 
lent, too,  as  a  powder  base.  50c 
and  $1.00  at  drug  and  depart- 
ment stores. 

Or,  send  4c  in  stamps  to  cover  mailing 
costs  and  -we'll  gladly  send  our  purse 
size  (a  -week's  supply)  FREE.  Address 
Dcpt.  62.  Chamberlain  Laboratories, 
Dcs  .Moines,  Iowa. 

Chamberlains 

HAND  LOTION 

"Q7;e  Invisible  Qlove 


Where  has  This  Artist  Been  Hiding? 


[  CONTINUED  PJtOll  PACE  58 


had  been  completed.  She  was  standing  in  the 
high  patio  that  overlooks  all  the  hills  of  Bev- 
erly, her  hair  wind-tossed,  her  arms  tiling  wide 
and  I  heard  her  saying,  "Oh,  I've  got  so  much. 
So  much  of  happiness,  so  much  of  beauty.  My 
husband,  whom  I  love.  My  baby  who  is  every- 
thing to  me.  This  perfect  house.  Everything. 
Should  I  not  be  afraid  of  having  so  much?  For 
so  long  I  had  nothing.  Now  I  have  everything. 
Will  it  fall  about  my  ears?" 

She  seemed  some  magnificent  earth  thing 
challenging  the  gods. 

"V"ET,  somehow,  I  saw  nothing  of  all  that  she 
J-  is  on  the  screen.  She  seemed  never  to  make 
the  most  of  herself.  It  is  so  with  her  personal 
appearance.  The  directness  of  her  gaze  hurts 
you.  Her  beauty  stabs  you  and  yet  lesser 
beauties  invariably  are  more  carefully  groomed 
than  Eleanor.  She's  never  known  just  what 
to  clo  with  her  hair.  She's  never  had  the  knack 
that  most  actresses  acquire  of  using  just  the 
right  make-up.  It  must  be  because  she's  rather 
too  line  for  exteriors  and  perhaps  it  was  that — 
the  fact  that  she  does  go  so  deep— that  made 
the  camera  lose  her  vital  charm. 

And  then  for  the  first  time,  I  saw  her — the 
real  her — in  "The  Great  Meadow." 

In  the  first  place  the  part  suits  her  exactly. 
I  can  well  imagine  Eleanor  doing  everything 
that  her  character  Dionc  did.  Eleanor  is,  at 
heart,  a  pioneer  woman.  Dionc  pioneered  in 
a  physical  wilderness.  Eleanor  has  pioneered 
in  a  mental  wilderness — with  theories.  It's 
only  a  matter  of  the  generation  in  which  you 
happen  to  be  born.  Dionc  battled  with  cold 
and  hunger  and  privations.  Eleanor  has  battled 
with  public  opinion  and  bigotry  and  selfishness. 
Basically  the  two — Eleanor  and  the  character 
she  played  in  "The  Great  Meadow" — are  iden- 
tical. Vet  even  she  might  not  have  made  that 
woman  live  as  she  now  does,  a  few  years  ago. 

For  she  has  grown.    She  has  borne  two  lovely 


children  and  the  cloak  of  motherhood  fits  her. 
Her  face  has  become  more  lovely  and  her  figure 
(  which  was  once  tall  and  inclined  to  be  angular) 
has  softened  and  rounded  until  it  is  the  figure 
of  a  magnificent  woman.  Now  she  gives  the 
camera  the  same  straight  gaze  that  she  has 
always  given  to  life. 

There  are  two  types  of  artists' in  the  world — 
those  who  work  best  when  the  stress  of  circum- 
stance is  upon  them  and  those  whose  art  de- 
mands harmony.  Eleanor  is  of  the  latter  type 
and  I  believe  that  it  is  this  that  has  brought 
about  the  change.  She  was  unhappy  while  she 
was  under  contract  to  M-G-M,  for  she  very 
seldom  did  parts  that  she  felt  were  sincere. 

She  could  not,  somehow,  combat  the  mill  of 
pictures  and  that  is  why  she  turned  down  the 
new  contract  that  was  offered  her  after  she 
had  completed  her  role  in  'The  Great 
Meadow.  Since  money  is  no  longer  a  primary 
consideration  she  actually  prefers  to  free  lance 
and  have  the  right  of  accepting  or  rejecting 
the  roles  offered  her. 

"D  UT  she  now  has  a  new  burst  of  enthusiasm 
■•-'for  pictures.  At  first  when  she  left  M-G-M 
she  was  content  with  her  home,  her  children 
and  her  husband.  She  is  still  content  with 
these,  but  she  demands  life  in  all  its  richness 
and  work  is  necessary  to  her.  At  first,  after 
her  baby  was  born,  she  didn't  care  whether 
she  ever  played  another  part  or  not,  but  she 
does  care  now  and  she  wants  to  go  on. 

I  do  not  know  whether  or  not  she  realizes 
all  of  the  things  she  has  stored  up  within  her, 
but  except  for  her  performance  in  "The  Crowd" 
she  has  been  holding  out  on  the  public.  You'll 
realize  this  when  you  see  her  in  "The  Great 
Meadow,"  when  you  see  her  make  a  fictitious 
woman  actually  live  before  your  eyes. 

For  the  first  time  in  her  life  Eleanor  Board- 
man  has  given  her  audiences  the  great  gifts 
that  she  has  to  give. 


Our  friends  Mr.  Courage  and  Mr.  Fear.  For  many  weeks  these  boys 
appeared  in  the  Fox  Movietone  News,  with  Mr.  Courage  (the  seated  blond) 
urging  Mr.  Fear  to  loosen  up  and  buy  his  wife  that  fur  coat  as  the  best  way 
to  end  hard  times.  Neither  boy  is  an  actor,  that  is,  professionally.  Both 
work  in  the  New  York  office  of  Fox 

Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  XIAGAZLXE  is  guaranteed. 


Photopi  n   Mac  a  .  193 1 


IMAGINE  THEM  TOGETHER 
IN  ONE  PICTURE!  The  most 
amazing  combination  of  world 
famous  stars  ever  brought  to  the  screen! 


and  Grace 


ORE 


ADOLPH  MENJOU 
and  Roland  Young 

Every  producer  in  motion  pic- 
tures tried  to  get  this  prize  stage 
sensation.  M-G-M  brings  it  to 
you  with  all  the  thrills  thatmade 
it  Broadway's  wonder  show 
for  more  than  a  year.  Great  stars 
—  dramatic  story  —  superb  ac- 
tion —  soul  stirring  love  scenes 
—glorious  voices.  Don't  miss  it! 

Bonk  and  Lyrics  bv  OSCAR  HAMMER- 
STEIN,  2nd,  FRANK  MANDEL  and 
LAURENCE  SCHWAB.  Music  by 
SIGMUND  ROMBERQ.  Directed  by 
JACK  CONWAY. 


THE  YEAR'S   TOWERING   TALKIE   ACHIEVEMENT 

NEW 
MOXDN 


M         $**      ao*«-      «*"     <*** 


\ 


k*^* 

*>*" 


METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER 


When  you  write  to  adTcnl«crs  rle»»  mention  riTOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


GRAYING 
HAIR? 

Why  surrender  to  gray  hair? 
"This  famous  approved  way 
means  radiant  color  again. 
We  send  demonstration  FREE. 

ALL  AROUND  you,  you  see  them,  these 
.  modern  women  who  stay  young. 
Their  secret — known  to  millions — is  one 
that  every  woman  with  graying  hair  should 
know — the  famous  clear,  colorless  liquid 
called  Mary  T.  Goldman's.  By  this  time- 
tested  way  women  are  safely  bringing 
youthful  color  to  faded  strands — so  evenly 
that  you  would  think  nature  herself  had 
put  it  there. 

You  Need  No  Experience 
MaryT.  Goldman's  method  can  be  done 
at  home.  Merely  comb  colorless  liquid 
through  the  hair.  Any  type  of  hair  matched 
— black,  brown,  auburn  or  blonde.  Color 
blends  evenly.  Hair  becomes  lustrous, 
live-looking  —  easy  to  curl  or  wave. 
No  "artificial"  look.  Nor  will  color  wash 
or  rub  off  on  linens  or  hat  linings. 
Entirely  SAFE  to  Use 

Mary  T.  Goldman's  has  been  used  by  discriminat- 
ing women  for  over  30years.  Medical  school  authori- 
ties have  pronounced  it  harmless  to  hair  and  scalp. 

Test  It  FREE! 

Try  it  first  on  a  single  lock  snipped  from  your 
hair.   See  results  this  way.  Why  hesitate  to  make 
this  safe  test?  We  have  sent  it  to 
more   than  3,000,000  women.   If 
you  prefer,  you  can  obtain  full- 
sized  bottle  from  your  druggist 
on    money-back    guar- 
antee.    Or  just  mail  the 
coupon.     We  '11    send 
FREE  TEST  PACKAGE. 


FREE 

This  Famous 
Single  Lock 
Test  Package 
Use  Coupon 


MARY 


GOLDMAN 


OVER  TEN   MILLION    BOTTLES    SOLD 


—FOR  FREE  TEST  PACKAGE- 
MARY  T.  GOLDMAN', 
2497  Goldman  Bidg.,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 


Nunc. 


Street. 


City  . 


State 

V    CHECK  COLOR  OF  HAIR    • 
□  BLACK  Q  DARK  BROWN' 

D  MEDIUM  BROWN  Q  LIGHT  BROWS 

O  DARK  RED  □  LIGHT  RED  D  BLONDE 


Garbo  vs.  Dietrich 


INU.D  FROM  PAGE  51  ] 


Dietrich  may  be  a  good  actress,  a  beautiful 
woman  and  all  that,  but  please  understand 
right  now  that  no  one  can  be  compared  with 
Greta  Garbo.  Anything  she  does  is  all  right 
with  mc — and  fifty  million  others.  She  is  the 
greatest  and  most  wonderful  woman  of  all 
time!"  You  can  gather,  from  this  tiny  assort- 
ment from  a  great  batch,  the  divine  madness 
that  grips  the  true  worshipper  of  that  amazing 
Swedish  girl.  Let  us  turn  to  the  less  perturbed 
section  of  the  populace — the  milder  spirits 
whose  judgment  is  settled  and  whose  souls  are 
more  serene. 

"\yfR.  J.  V.  K.,  of  Cumberland,  Ky.,  pours 
J- » ■••some  oil  on  the  roiled  and  stormy  waters : 

"How  could  anyone  get  mixed  up  on  this 
Garbo-Dietrich  situation?  Both  Dietrich  and 
Garbo  can  speak  the  same  language,  have  the 
same  likes  and  mysteries.  Why  not  let  them 
alone  and  let  them  become  friends?  Garbo 
is  so  much  like  Marlene  Dietrich,  and  Dietrich 
so  much  like  Greta  that  I  am  sure  they  would 
become  fast  friends." 

A  hopeful  note  is  struck  by  Miss  E.  B.,  of 
Henderson,  Tex.: 

"I  believe  all  the  Garbo  fans  will  like  Miss 
Dietrich.  She  isn't  trying  to  take  Garbo's 
throne.  She  merely  wants  another  one  beside 
it." 

And  Mr.  J.  B.,  of  River  Forest,  111.,  is  a  little 
bored  with  it  all: 

"Why  this  everlasting  bringing-up  of  the 
'new  menace  to  Garbo's  throne'  idea?  But 
since  another  'new  menace'  has  again  come  up, 
let's  give  the  new  girl  a  break.  I  am,  of  course, 
also  a  Garbo  fan.  But  I'm  not  a  narrow- 
minded  maniac.  Let  there  be  (and  here  Mr. 
B.  grows  ironical)  one  God,  one  Caesar,  one 
Lincoln,  one  Napoleon,  one  Mickey  Mouse, 
one  Garbo.  But  why  not  also  one  Marlene 
Dietrich?"- 

And  Mr.  J.  B.  strikes  the  keynote!  He 
points  the  way  to  peace!  Why  not  one 
Dietrich,  indeed? 

After  all,  can  Marlene  help  it  if  she  looks 
something  like  the  Queen  of  Culver  City? 

Is  Hollywood  only  large  enough  for  one 
beautiful  girl  who  employs  restraint  and  whose 
screen  personality  is  alive  with  the  glamor  that 
gives  certain  actresses  of  stage  and  screen 
their  true  greatness  as  public  magnets? 

I  answer  my  own  question.    Certainly  not. 

And  may  I  point  out  that  the  tricks,  atti- 
tudes and  methods  of  la  Dietrich  are  less 
Garboesque  than  they  are  European?  Let  us, 
in  this  moment  of  armistice,  remember  that 
Garbo  is  the  only  European  trouper  to  attain 
great  Hollywood  eminence  since  Negri's  time, 
and  that's  long  ago,  as  tern  pus  fugils. 

But  there's  no  need  of  getting  deep-dish 
about  this  war.    We  should  get  the  boys  and 


girls  out  of  the  trenches  by  Lincoln's  birthday 
— nay,  they  should  be  out  now,  cooling  off 
their  fevered  typewriters  and  turning  to  the 
productive  arts  of  peace. 

Miss  Dietrich's  "Morocco"  was  a  hit.  The 
country's  fans  and  critics  gave  her  a  nice  send- 
off.  They  welcomed  her  as  a  distinct  person- 
ality— a  fresh  gift  to  the  American  screen. 
Great  Caesar's  perambulating  ghost,  isn't 
the  American  motion  picture  big  enough  to 
support  two  foreign  ladies  who  drip  personal- 
ity, even  though  one  is  a  tweedish  Swedish 
divinity  named  Garbo? 

As  soon  as  Marlene  had  finished  "Morocco," 
she  was  set  at  "Dishonored"  by  the  ardent 
Yon  Sternberg,  this  time  with  big  Yic  McLag- 
len  opposite.  This  done,  she  set  off  for  Ger- 
many to  see  her  little  daughter,  for  whom  she 
had  been  pining.  She  left  behind  her  the  dawn 
of  a  first-rate  American  reputation,  born  amid 
the  thunders  and  alarms  of  a  one-sided  war. 

God  willing,  she'll  be  back — back,  I  hope, 
in  peace.  She's  a  fine  actress,  this  lush  Teuton 
with  the  slumbrous  eyes.  We  need  her.  Even 
the  Garbo-maniacs  need  her,  as  they'll  realize 
as  soon  as  they  cool  off  and  discover  ttjat  Mar- 
lene is  no  copy-cat  trying  to  steal  thrones  at 
night.  Garbo's  Garbo  and  Dietrich's  Dietrich, 
and  thank  Heaven  for  both.  That's  the  atti- 
tude, and  that  is  what  will  happen. 

You  are  cordially  invited  to  attend  a  big 
shenanigan  I  am  promoting  for  the  spring 
drinking  season. 

It  is  to  be  held  at  Madison  Square  Garden, 
New  York  City — a  banquet  seating  as  many 
as  can  be  herded  in.  At  one  end  of  the  table 
will  be  a  throne  for  Greta  Garbo — at  the  other 
a  throne  for  Marlene  Dietrich.  Each  will  be 
exactly  the  same  size,  and  contain  as  many 
diamonds,  rubies,  emeralds  and  sapphires. 

A  HUNDRED  flappers,  dressed  in  white  and 
carrying  olive  branches  and  autographed 
photographs,  will  attend  each  monarch.  In 
between  will  be  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  H.  Fan 
and  the  little  Fans.  Each  will  have  one  eye  on 
Marlene  and  one  on  Greta,  who  will  both  be 
smiling,  whatever  the  cost. 

Paramount  will  furnish  a  band  to  play  at 
one  end  of  the  hall — Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 
will  hire  one  to  tootle  at  the  other. 

At  the  proper  moment,  I  shall  rise  with  a 
glass  of  pop  in  each  hand.  Bowing  simul- 
taneously to  both  thrones  (a  very  good  trick 
if  I  can  do  it)  I  shall  propose  the  toast,  "The 
Queens,  God  bless  them!"  and  will  then  drink 
from  both  tumblers  at  once.  (.Another  good 
trick.    I  learned  it  in  India  from  a  Swami.) 

And  you  all  will  drink  it  too — even  the 
wildest  of  you  Garbo-maniacs. 

Hush  now — nobody's  trying  to  steal  your 
baby's  throne! 


Plains,  Mont. 
When  you  are  only  eighteen — 
eighteen  with  its  dreams  and  its  be- 
lief in  happy  endings— and  you  are 
so  hideously  deformed  and  scarred 
that  people  shudder  when  they  pass 
you  by  on  the  street — is  life  a  dreary 
prison,  a  cruel  trap  from  which  you 
cannot  escape? 


Ah,  no,  for  there  are  the  movies! 

You  slip  into  a  theater  and  there  in 
the  friendly  darkness  you  forget  your 
ugly  face  and  twisted  body  and 
through  the  art  of  Mary  Pickford, 
Ruth  Chatterton  and  all  the  lovely 
army  of  exquisite,  gifted  women,  you 
find  love  and  laughter  and  adventure. 
Peggy  Baker 


Every  advertisement  in  PIIOTOri-AY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


PHOTO?]  u    -M  \..\/r.i     i  00     i 


107 


A   HOLLYWOOD 
THEME   SONG" 

with 

Harry  Gribbon 

Yolo    D'Avril  Patty   O'leary 

Muck  Sennetl  la  famous  for  bin 
satire*  00  tin*  movlea  iheuuieli <•». 
Vnil  thi*  one.  hiddlng  (In-  tin  mm 

MUIO,  i*  one  Of  III*  ynalrsl.  I  In- 
erilie*  rail  il  "ureal  Inn  ,  "one 
Inn-  lni»  I",  "a  riot." 


"ROUGH   IDEA   OF   LOVE" 

with 
Marjorie  Beebo  Frank  Eastman  Mildred  Van  Corn 
II"  VOU  Maul  a  rmrli  idea  ol  love  as  I  r.mkir  mill 
Johnnx  ilemonslrale  it  —  anil  a  \er\  rlrar  idea  of 
Imw  funny  an  "action  Comedy"  ran  l>t — ili>n"l  miss 
litis  one. 

MACK 


inericcL 
u  Mfe 

as  iona  as  it 

can  Laucjk 

nerica's  collective  sense  of  humor  i*.  one  of  the 
principal  reasons  for  its  greatness;  one  of  the  snresl 
guarantees  of  its  future. 

Among  its  most  honored  sons  and  daughters  ha\  e  always 
been  those  who  made  its  millions  chuckle.  For  thev 
do  more  for  public  morale  than  most  of  its  statesmen. 

\\  hile  vou  can  laugh  vou,H  never  he  licked.  And  if 
you'll  «jet  your  film  entertainment  where  they  show 
EDUCATIONAVS  COMEDIES  (and  that  includes  most 
of  the  better  theatres  of  the  land)  you'll  always  he 
sure  of  your  share  of  laughs. 

SENNETT 

COMEDIES 


DANCE   HALL  MARGE"  with 

Harry  Gribbon       Marjorie  Beebe 


Frank  Eastman 


A  taxi  ilnnrer  tries  to  put   on    tin-   rilz   for   her 

wealth]  new  !>•>>  friend.  Doea  ahe  act  by  wHk 

it?   (Hi.   hoy.    how   \on'll   how  I  while  \ou"re 

finding  out.    I  here  are  a  lot  of  lansih  frafjs 

here  that  nobodj   erer  dreamed 

of  before    Marijc    hail 

her  nightmare. 


"NO,   NO,   LADY" 

with 

Andy  Clyde 

Frank  Eastman       Dorothy  Christy       Cyril  Chadwick 

A  ne\>  ami  funnier  slant  on  the  amateur 
"1I1  an  ma";  a  eomedj  done  in  the  host  modern 
manner,  with  plenty  of  the  hind  of  laugha  that 
\»  ill  shake  >  our  ribs. 


EDUCATIONAL     FILM     EXCHANGES.     INC.,     E.    W.    H.4MMONS,    President.     1501    Broadway.   New    York,   N.    V. 

When  you  writ*  to  tditr  r-.en*:m  rHOTOPt.AT  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


modern  girls 
make    money 

in   Art 

As  fashion  illustrators,  interior  deco- 
rators, fabric  designers,  show  card 
writers,  modern  girls  are  making 
good  money  in  art.  Manufacturers 
of  wall  paper,  furniture,  draperies, 
dress  fabrics,  jewelry,  kitchenware  — 
base  their  success  today  on  color 
and  design.  Girls  trained  in  art  are 
needed.     Fine  incomes  are  possible. 

Through  the  Federal  School  of 
Illustrating  you  can  learn  the  principles 
of  modern  design  at  home.  More 
than  fifty  famous  artists  contribute 
exclusive  lessons  to  the  Federal  Course 
in  illustrating,  cartooning,  lettering, 
designing,  etc.  Many  Federal  students 
are  now  earning  from  $2500  to 
$6000  a  year  —  others  even  more. 

Test  Your  Talent  Free 
Our  Free  Art  Test  finds  out  your 
talent.  From  it  our  artists  will  judge 
your  drawing  ability.  Send  today 
for  this  Test  Chart  and  our  Free  Book, 
"A  Road  To  Bigger  Things." 

FEDERAL  SCHOOL 
OF    ILLUSTRATING 

2101    Federal  Schools  Bldg.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 


Federal  School  of  Illustrating 
2101    Federal  Schools  Building 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Please  send  me  free  book, 
"A  Road  To  Bigger  Things,"  and 
Standard  Art  Test. 


Name- 


Age- 


Occupation- 


Address- 


The  Prima  Donna  and  "the  Old  Man" 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  63  J 


Lubitsch  saw  something  in  the  singing,  talking 
shadow  of  the  beautiful  girl  with  the  red-gold 
hair.  His  smart  showman's  sense  told  him  he 
could  add  to  it — oh,  gayety,  finesse,  and  most 
important  of  all,  glamour!  Perhaps  he  saw 
here  perfect,  malleable  clay  for  his  master- 
potter's  hand.     Maybe  he  didn't. 

At  any  rate,  Ernst  Lubitsch  played  a  perfect 
Pygmalion  to  Jeanette  MacDonald's  Galatea. 

TpHE  pretty,  conventional  statue  came  alive 
•*-  at  the  command  of  his  intelligence  and  will. 
Her  dormant  humor,  her  sense  of  fun  that  had 
lain  in  the  bud  while  she  trilled  "I  Love  You," 
burst  into  bloom. 

To  me,  the  rebirth  of  Jeanette  MacDonald 
at  the  touch  and  under  the  training  of  Lubitsch 
is  one  of  the  little  miracles  of  the  talkie  times. 

For  born  again  she  was — more  beautiful, 
more  glamorous  as  a  woman,  and  as  an  entirely 
new  and  fascinating  artist  in  the  matter  of 
alluring  and  sexy  comedy. 

Some  things  he  taught  her.  Other  talents 
which  had  lain  in  her  unused,  he  brought  out. 
Her  promise  in  "The  Love  Parade-'  came  to 
full  flower  in  "Monte  Carlo,"  that  charming 
bit  of  fluff  that  became  something  hugely  de- 
lightful at  the  magic  touch  of  The  Old  Man. 

How  did  the  little  miracle  happen?  I  had  a 
long  talk  with  Jeanette  over  a  tomato  omelette 
and  a  smidgin  of  toast.    And  I  think  I  know. 

For  one  thing,  they  found,  early  in  their  pro- 
fessional association,  that  their  senses  of  humor 
jibe.  They,  a  little  like  Mike  and  Ike,  laugh 
alike.  If  Lubitsch  thought  of  a  laugh  plum  to 
stick  in  the  picture,  Jeanette  giggled,  and  it 
wasn't  just  politeness. 

The  Old  Meister,  sensing  that  he  had  pliable 
material  and  fertile  ground,  suggested,  taught, 
instructed  and  hinted.  MacDonald,  being  a 
smart  girl  and  a  good  trouper,  picked  up  every 
Lubitsch  cue. 

In  a  sense,  they  were  teammates.  As  a  mat- 
ter of  fact,  Jeanette  remarks  that  the  studio 
always  said  that  she  and  Lubitsch  "did  an  act." 
That  is  to  say,  The  Old  Man  and  the  Prima 
Donna  had  a  pretty  elaborate  ritual  of  daily 
jokes,  politenesses  and  comments.  It  made  for 
ease  and  it  made  for  good  work. 

And  daily  The  Old  Man  saw  Galatea  begin 
to  breathe — then  act,  with  grace  and  charm. 

What  is  more  important  than  mere  liking, 
MacDonald  had,  and  has,  tremendous  respect 


for  the  talents  of  Herr  Ernst.  She  knew  that 
he  knew,  and  no  fooling!  She  was  anxious  to 
learn  from  an  acknowledged  master  of  his 
trade — which  was  three-fourths  of  the  battle. 
And  learn  she  did! 

In  all  their  association  through  two  long  and 
tricky  pictures,  they  had  but  one  serious  scrap. 

"  I  had  come  late  three  days  hand-running," 
says  Jeanette.  "The  last  time  I  was  just  five 
minutes  behind  time.  But  Mr.  Lubitsch  had 
finally  lost  all  patience  and  more  temper. 

"  lie  was  in  a  rage.  '  Who  do  you  think  you 
arc?'  he  roared.  'Do  you  know  who  I  am? 
You  aren't  big  enough  to  do  this  to  me!' 

"The  upshot  was  that  I  had  hysterics  and  he 
stormed  into  the  front  office — while  a  company 
waited  an  hour  instead  of  live  minutes.  But 
before  noon  we  had  made  it  up,  and  our  friend- 
ship and  professional  understanding  were 
stronger  than  ever." 

And  so  the  team  of  Lubitsch  and  MacDonald 
laughed  and  toiled  successfully  through  two  of 
the  finest  sophisticated  comedies  ever  made  for 
the  screen.  At  this  writing,  her  Paramount 
term  over,  Jeanette  MacDonald  is  on  the  Fox 
lot.  Butjsheisn'ttheconventional  prima  donna 
any  more.  She's  a  trained  and  tricky  come- 
dienne, taught  by  a  master. 

Tl.AXETTE'S  a  smart  girl.  She  won't  forget 
J  what  teacher  taught.  She  admires  and  re- 
spects him  as  a  master,  likes  him  as  a  friend.  If 
the  Fox  directors  are  smart,  they  will  cash  in  on 
this  beautiful  girl,  and  all  get  rich  and  famous 
together. 

Her  first,  under  the  new  contract,  is  to  be 
"All  Women  Are  Bad."  with  Eddie  Lowe 
opposite  and  the  able  William  K.  Howard  hold- 
ing the  reins.  And  we  will  see  what  we  shall 
see — and  hear.  Boy,  there's  true  romance  in 
the  story  of  The  Old  Man  and  The  red-haired 
Prima  Donna!  It's  a  little  miracle-play,  done 
under  the  Hollywood  arc  lights. 

Lucky  Jeanette,  a  pretty  Broadway  girl, 
whom  fortune  favored  with  months  of  associa- 
tion with  a  real  master!  Lucky  Paramount, 
who  had  her  beauty  and  developed  talents  in 
two  first-rate  comedies!  Lucky  Fox,  crafty 
enough  to  sign  her  for  more!  Yes.  and  lucky 
Lubitsch,  too!  What  greater  fortune — or  sat- 
isfaction— can  come  to  a  great  moulder  of 
human  talents  than  to  see  a  still,  white  statue 
come  alive  at  the  touch  of  his  genius? 


George  Bernard  Shaw,  greatest  living  man  of  letters,  gives  in  at  last  to  the 
tallcies!  Here  the  whiskered  Irish  playwright  is  shown  on  the  set  at  the 
British  International  Studios,  near  London.  About  him  are  some  of  the 
players  who  are  filming  his  comedy,  "How  He  Lied  to  Her  Husband" 

Every  advertisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photo?]  \\   M  \«..\/im.  fob  I  i  rat 


A    COLUMBIA 


FROM  BRAZIL- 

WHERETHE 

NUTS  COME 

FROM/ 


PICTURE 


PRODUCED    by    '**&?'  CHRISTIE 

ASK  YOUR  THEATRE  WHEN  CHARLEYS  AUNT  WILL  BE  SHOWN 


When  rou  write  to  idvertLs«rs  rle»se  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


I  IO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


1*403*021 


TIMES  A  YEAR: 
FLOWERS 

sent  by  wire  ike 
F.  T.  D.'MERCURY"  WAY 

When  "she"  is  a  thousand  miles 
away  .  .  .  and  the  calendar  tells 
you  it's  February  14,  St.  Valen- 
tine's Day  .  .  . 

Just  say  it  with  flowers  by  wire 
the  F.  T.  D.  "Mercury"  way. 

The  Florists'  Telegraph  Delivery 
Association  has  bonded  members 
everywhere.  1,403,021  orders  were 
sent  by  wire  through  this  organiza- 
tion last  year. 

On  St.  Valentine's  Day  ...  on 
your  anniversary  ...  on  every 
important  occasion  when  distance 
separates  you  from  your  loved 
ones  .  .  .  patronize  a  flower  shop 
displaying  the  Mercury  emblem. 


0or  [Distant  0 lower  [Deliveries 

THE  F.T.D/'MEBCiRY"  WAY 

1$  GUARANTEED 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 

.IIM  ID  FROM  PAGE  82  ) 


Connie  Bennett,  Adolph  Zukor  and  Winficld 
Sheehan. 

Sentiment  was  divided.  The  Fox  lot  was 
reported  betting  the  works  on  Notre  Dame, 
while  United  Artists  shot  the  wad  on  South- 
ern California.  Hollywood  was  120  per  cent 
agog  the  day  of  the  game. 

Then  the  great  Notre  Dame  eleven  smeared 
Southern  California's  pets  27-0.  1  hear  the 
Fox  lot  bought! 

AXD  so  they  were  married! 
Dorothy  Sebastian  and  Rill  Boyd  (the 
blond  one  of  Pathe)  stepped  off  the  deep  end 
in  Las  Vegas  one  December  day.    They'd  been 
keeping  company  for  quite  a  while. 

"Little  Alabam"  and  Director  Clarence 
Brown  were  engaged  for  a  long  time,  with  Dot 
wearing  a  huge  diamond  on  the  significant 
finger.  But  that  ultimately  blew  up.  Now 
Dorothy  is  Mrs.  Bill  Boyd,  and  Brown  is  seen 
both  hither  and  thither  in  Hollywood  with 
Sally  Blane. 

AND  there's  the  very  grand  actress 
who  makes  her  maid  put  on  her 
parlor  cap  every  time  she  answers 
the  phone. 

BEING  an  opera  and  concert  star,  as  well  as 
a  screen  star,  has  its  drawbacks.  One  of 
them  is  that  sometimes  you  can't  see  the  Holly- 
wood premiere  of  your  latest  picture. 

That's  what  happened  to  Grace  Moore. 
Wires  from  New  York  called  her  back  East  to 
fulfil  concert  engagements,  so  she  missed  the 
thrill  of  attending  her  own  opening  on  the 
screen. 

But  after  all,  four  figures  with  dollar  marks 
in  front  of  them  do  make  up  for  things! 

CHARLES  "CARROT  TOP"  BICK- 
FORD,  the  bad  boy  of  M-G-M,  was  asked 
to  play  a  role  in  Jack  Gilbert's  new  picture, 
"Gentleman's  Fate."  Mr.  Bickford  didn't 
want  to  play  the  part.  And  he  said  so  loudly 
and  in  no  uncertain  terms  as  is  Mr.  Bickford's 
wont.    The  studio  insisted. 

Bickford  said  if  they  didn't  like  it  they  could 
give  him  a  release  from  his  contract.  So  the 
studio  got  Louis  Wolheim  to  play  the  part. 
They  didn't  like  Mr.  Bickford's  attitude  so 
they  gave  him  his  release. 

Then  there's  Kay  Johnson.  M-G-M  wanted 
to  loan  her  out  to  an  independent  studio.  Kay 
didn't  want  to  go.  So  she  said,  too,  if  they 
didn't  like  it  they  could  give  her  her  release. 
And  again  they  didn't  like  it.  They  gave  her 
her  release. 

RUMOR  has  it  that  Vivian  Duncan  will  be 
crooning  those  haunting  ditties  over  a 
cradle  in  a  few  months.  Vivian  is  now  in  New 
York,  where  she  has  confided  the  Great  News 
to  intimate  friends.  Nils  Asther  remained  in 
Hollywood  for  a  spell,  but  he  will  join  her 
shortly.  This  couple  remain  as  devoted  as  ever. 
And  little  Ruth  (Gentlemen  Prefer  Blondes') 
Taylor  became  the  mamma  of  a  son  not  long 
ago.  She  lives  on  New  York's  Park  Avenue 
with  her  broker-husband,  Paul  Zuckerman. 

HOLLYWOOD  is  a  village  of  rackets.  Not 
the  noisy  kind  but  strange  businesses. 
One  of  the  most  unusual  rackets  is  a  concern 
that  ferrets  out  the  private  telephone  numbers 
of  the  stars.  These  numbers,  in  turn,  are  sold 
to  tradespeople,  real  estate  men,  bond  sales- 
men and  laundries. 

John  Gilbert's  phone  rings,  and  a  voice 
drifts  over  the  wire. 

"Good  morning,  Mr.  Gilbert,  wouldn't  you 
like  to  visit  beautiful  Jungle  Manor?" 


Consequently,  the  stars  change  their  private 
telephone  listings  three  or  four  times  a  year. 
In  fact,  sometimes  they  don't  even  know  the 
number  themselves,  so  deeply  is  it  shrouded  in 
secrecy.  There  is  no  more  tragic  story  than 
that  of  the  star  who  forgot  his  own  number, 
and  no  one  would  tell  him — not  even  the 
telephone  company. 

THEY  tell  the  story  about  the 
Hollywood  new-rich  couple  who, 
instead  of  cocktails,  present  each 
guest  with  a  large  bottle  of  cham- 
pagne. 

When  dinner  is  announced  the 
host  cries,  "Bring  your  bottle  right  to 
the  table  with  you — this  is  just  old 
liberty  hall." 

(~~*  AR  Y  COOPER  escaped  arrest  because — 
^-^     Well,  Gary  had  parked  his  swell  car  in  a 
non-parking  zone  while  he  went  into  an  auto- 
display  room  to  look  at  some  models. 

Outside,  a  policeman  started  to  write  a  ticket. 

The  salesman  with  Cooper  saw  him,  and 
rushed  out. 

"Hey,  you  can't  do  that!"  he  told  the  cop. 

"I'm  doing  it,"  the  cop  pointed  out. 

The  salesman  became  so  persistent  that  the 
policeman  got  mad  and  took  him  to  jail. 

And  forgot  to  finish  writing  the  ticket  for 
Cooper. 

ANEW  singing  team  headlined  at  New 
York's  famous  Palace  not  so  long  ago. 

The  billing  read,  "Bemice  Claire  and 
Alexander  Gray." 

Big  shots  in  Hollywood  singies  less  than  a 
year  ago.  Then  the  producers  thumbed  down 
the  musical  stuff.  Bernice  and  Alex  sing  their 
songs  for  the  two  a  day,  and  doing  all  right, 
thanks. 

Heigho!     Build  'em  up — knock  'em  down. 

RAYMOND  GRIFFITH  tried  to  make  a 
come-back  on  the  screen.  But  he  cannot, 
you  know,  speak  above  a  whisper.  Yet  how 
effective  he  was  as  the  dying  French  soldier  in 
"All  Quiet."  He  did  not,  you  remember,  speak 
a  word. 

Now  he's  just  been  signed  by  Warners  as  a 
member  of  their  writing  staff. 

BILL  POWELL  just  about  has  things  his  own 
way  in  the  studio  cafe  on  the  Paramount  lot. 
He  autographed  one  of  his  best  looking  pic- 
tures for  each  of  the  girls  in  the  cafe,  and  maybe 
you  don't  think  he  gets  sendee!  Your  toast 
and  mine  might  be  cold  when  it  arrives,  but 
Bill  gets  his  hot  as  blazes! 

EASIEST  role  of  1930:  Extra  Girl 
Ruth  Mayhew  in  "Dishonored" 
had  to  lie  motionless  on  a  stretcher 
and  be  carried  across  the  screen. 

WE  have  been  telling  you  the  stork  was 
working  overtime  in  Hollywood.  We 
understand  now  that  he  will  be  visiting  little 
Alice  Day  before  many  months. 

B(  -ides  that  we  hear  that  her  sister,  Marce- 
line  Day,  is  feeling  lonely  since  Alice  married 
and  it  is  not  unlikely  that  she  will  soon  say 
"yes"  to  Arthur  Kline's  continued  proffer  of 
marriage. 

BEWARE  these  "exclusive  models"  in  Holly- 
wood.   I  mean  clothes,  not  ladies  who  pose 
for  the  brush  and  paint  men! 

The  other  day  at  the  Embassy  Club  you'd 
have  thought  Carmel  Myers  and  Ruby  Keeler 
Jolson  were  doing  a  sister  act.     They  were 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE   112  ] 


Every  advertisement  In  PIIOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


Pbotoplai   Magazine  mn  Febkuakt,  1931 


1  i  i 


ars.h 


New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  the 


Ph 


"Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  represents  the  very  fin- 
est collection  of  beautiful  art  portraits  of  screen 
celebrities    ever    assembled    under    one    cover. 


250  Reproductions  in  Rotogravure  of  the  Stars,  and  the 
facts  you  want  to  know  about  them 

DO  YOU  KNOW? 


Which  feminine  <t.ir«  have  married  millionaires — 
which  ana  I 

The  color  of  Ctaudcttc  Coli>crt'»  luir7 

The  name  of  the  picture  that  truje  Clara  Bow? 

How  much  Lotctta  Young  w 

Where  Chevalier  ra  Jurine.  the  World  War? 

That  Raquel  Torres'  type  b  unique  on  the  screen7 

upation  engages  Robert  Montgomery's 
leisure  hours? 

n  Laurel  came  to  America  u  unjerstudy 
to  Charlie  Chaplin  in  a  stage  skit? 
Who  was  once  engaged  to  the  grandson  of  the 

I 
The  name  of  Irene  Rich's  hushand? 


Why  W,  ..,me  a  screen  actor? 

Which  dramatic  school  Buddy  Rogers  attended? 

The  real  name  of  Lew  Cody' 

What  star  weighs  exactly  one  hundred  pounds? 

How  many  times  Alma  Ruhens  has  been  married? 

How  the  talkies  gave  John  Boles  his  big  chance? 

Where  Bebc  Daniels  was  born? 

How  old  is  Marie  Dressier? 

Whether  Jeanette  MacDonald  has  ever  married? 

How  Jack  Oakic  got  his  start? 

Gilbert  Roland's  nationality7 

Which  iair-haired  star  was  disowned  by  her  father? 

That  Buster  Keaton  was  born  in  a  tent? 

The  answers  to  these — and  hundreds  of  other  questions — just 
the  information  that  you  and  your  friends  want  can  be  found  in 
"Stars  of  the  Photoplay." 

Size  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay,"  1M  x  10H  inches;  individual 
portraits,  51  1  x  11  i  inches.  A  biographical  sketch  accompanies 
each  portrait. 

You  can  obtain  this  remarkable  book  with  an  18  months  subscrip- 
tion  to  Photoplay  Magazine  for  only  $4.00.  "Stars  of  the  Photo- 
play" sells  regularly  for  $1.25;  an  18  months  subscription  to  Photo- 
play $3.75.  The  regular  price  of  the  two  combined  is  $5.00.  You 
will,  therefore,  save  $1.00  by  taking  advantage  of  this  unusual  offer. 
We  recommend  the  combination  offer,  but  if  you  want  only  "Stars 
of  the  Photoplay,"  just  send  $1.25. 

This  combination  offer  is  an  ideal  Birthday  gift.  If  it  is  to  be 
sent  as  a  gift,  insert  the  name  of  the  person  to  whom  you  wi>h  it 
to  go,  on  the  coupon,  and  your  own  name  on  the  extra  line  at  the 
bottom  provided  for  this  purpose,  also  state  date  of  birthday,  and  a 
proper  notification  will  be  sent  to  the  recipient. 


Photoplay  Magarine  {Stars  of  the  Photoplay] 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave,  Chicago,  111. 


PH.  2-31 


Enclosed  please  find  $ Z]  check     D  money  order     Q  cash,  for  which  send  me 

□  The  New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  and  enter  my  subscription  to  PMoroPLAr  Maga- 
zine for  IS  months  effective  with  the  next  issue. 

(Special  Rate:  $4.00  U.  S.  and  possessions;   $4.50  Canada;  $5.00  Foreign.) 

□  The  New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay" — now  only  $1 .25. 


N,dme. 


Street. 


City. 


.State. 


dftfrom  {name] Birthday 

When  you  write  to  advertisers  ple»se  mention  PHOTOP1-AT  MAGAZINE. 


I  12 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


The  Gift 
of  Good 

Taste! 


The  sweetest  story  you  ever  told  her! 
A  tempting  assortment  of  19  different 
kinds  of  centers  —  nuts,  nougatines, 
caramels,  creams  and  other  luscious 
dainties,  smothered  in  rich,  creamy 
chocolate.  Always  fresh.  Charmingly 
packaged.  Moderately  priced.  Re- 
member the  name — Artstyle  Choco- 
lates. Sold  only  at  Rexall  Drug  Stores. 
Liggett  and  Owl  Stores  are  also 
Rexall  Stores.  There  is  one  near  you. 


•'your     _  _ 

(o*aJLi 


DRUG 
STORE 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 

I  COM  IM   ED  1  KO.U   PAGE   110  ] 


dressed  identically  from  head  to  foot.  Hut  the 
uirls  got  together  and  found  that  each  had  been 
told  that  the  gowns  were  absolutely  exclusive. 

CAN'T  keep  this  pair  out,  down,  or  apart ! 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  having 
finished  a  series  of  Darmour  short  comedies, 
went    on   a    live-weeks'    tour   of    the    Publix 
theaters. 

Just  the  old  inseparables. 
Together  they  mean  do-re-mi.     Apart,  who 
knows? 

'  I  'HEY  must  be  troupers  all  in  Hollywood. 
*■  Lester  Vail,  that  very  nice  kid,  who  gets  a 
best  performance  in  "The  Devil's  Battalion" 
this  month,  and  who  is  playing  Joan  Crawford's 
leading  man  in  "  Dance,  Fools,  Dance,"  worked 
one  entire  afternoon,  doing  gay,  sprightly  scenes 
just  after  he  had  received  word  that  his  wife 
had  been  rushed  to  the  hospital  for  a  serious 
operation. 

Not  a  word  of  complaint  was  heard  from 
him,  but  every  member  ol  that  cast  was  on  his 
mettle. 

There  was  not  a  mistake  made  in  a  single 
line,  and  the  company  finished  work  two  hours 
ahead  of  time. 

•"THE  German  censors  finally  permitted  "AH 
*■  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front-'  to  be  shown 
in  the  Fatherland. 

Then  the  trouble  started.  Riots  broke  out 
around  the  Mozartstaa!  Theater,  Berlin,  where 
the  picture  was  being  screened.  Fights  started. 
Police  herded  the  scrapping  crowd  into  the 
street. 

Several  combatants  were  hurt.  Then  the 
government  took  a  hand  and  forbade  its  being 
shown. 

Nothing  was  quiet  about  THAT  front. 
Dynamite  in  Germany,  that  masterpiece! 

PFGGY  JOYCE — diamonds,  sables,  face  and 
rigger — is  in  Hollywood. 
She  wants  to  make  a  talkie  out  of  "The  Lady 
of  the  Orchids,"  in  which  she  appeared  on  the 
stage. 

Peggy   is   rumored    to   be   going   platinum 
blonde,  a  la  Jean  Harlow  of  "Hell's  Angels." 
Well,  it  must  be  all  right.    In  case  of  need, 
hock  the  hair! 

THERE'S  been  an  awful  lot  of  news- 
print  fussing    about    Clara    Bow 
firing  her  secretary,  Daisy  Devoe. 
Just  a  lot  of  Bow-Bow-De-Voe  . . .! 

HPHEY  may  be  a  burst  of  cheers  on  our  side, 
*-  but  in  England  Amos  'n'  Andy  are  just  a 
burst  of  dead  silence. 

"  Check  and  Double  Check,"  shown  to  the 
trade  and  press  in  London,  was  received  with 
polite,  but  dire  silence.  It  is  said  that  not  a 
newspaperman  in  the  London  Press  Club  had 
ever  heard  of  the  boys. 

They  are,  of  course,  absolutely  unknown  in 
England. 

Poor  dear  old  Mother  Country!  How  it 
misses  out  on  American  culture! 

EVEN  six  months  after  Lon 
Chaney's  death,  the  M-G-M  fan 
mail  department  is  still  receiving 
loads  of  fan  letters  addressed  to  him. 


"D  ROOKLINE,  MASS.,  one  of  the  wealthiest 
■^-'and  most  exclusive  towns  in  America,  has 
seen  the  light 

The  law  forbade  the  showing  of  motion  pic- 
tures in  the  hoity-toity  community.  En- 
lightened voters  recently  changed  the  statute 


by   the   ballot.      Brookline  became   the   most 
sought-after   theater   location    in    the    United 

Seven  applications  were  made  for  permission 
to  erect  theaters,  headed  by  Publix  and  Warn- 
ers. 

Two  permits  will  be  granted. 

Soon  Brookline  will  begin  to  LI  VE! 

npHE.  studios  have  a  neat  little  habit  of 
*■  putting  young  actors  and  actresses  under 
contract  at  very  small  salaries  and  then  giving 
them  important  roles.  At  the  time  the  signing 
takes  place  the  kids  are  thrilled  simply  at 
getting  a  break. 

Later  they  discover  themselves  important 
featured  players  and  find  that  the  small  part 
actors  get  more  money  than  they. 

A  certain  boy  who  was  given  the  lead  in  one 
of  the  biggest  pictures  of  the  year  and  has  been 
shoved  into  several  other  vehicles  right  away 
is  earning  just  $75  a  week. 

IT  seems  that  a  bit  of  his  own  medicine  was 
handed  Doug  Fairbanks  by  the  stickup  men 
who  robbed  him  in  his  own  home  not  so  long 
ago.  They  were  arrested  recently  and  con- 
fessed the  holdup. 

But  the  funny  part  is  that  they  told  of  how 
they  clambered  up  Doug's  roof,  just  as  he  does 
in  pictures,  and  watched  gleefully  while  Doug 
ran  around  spreading  the  alarm  and  hunting 
them  in  vain.      Ha!  Ha! 

THEY  keep  on  saying  it  and  print- 
ing   it — that    Gary    Cooper   and 
Lupe  Velez  are  married. 

But  Lupe  and  Gary  keep  on  deny- 
ing it.  And  your  guess  is  as  good  as 
mine. 

rT"'HE  highest  of  high  brown  society  were  all 
*■  at  the  train  to  greet  Mrs.  Stepin  Fetchit. 
wife  of  the  temperamental  comedian,  and  their 
seven-weeks  old  son. 

The  welcome  home  was  gay  and  noisy  but 
suddenly  Mrs.  Fetchit  said,  "Where's  Stepin?" 

Nobody  had  noticed  that  he  wasn't  there. 
Then,  just  at  that  moment,  he  arrived.  "Heah 
I  is,  honey,"  he  said.  "You  oughta  know  you 
shouldn't  take  a  mornin  'train.  I  jes '  overslep' 
myself." 

A  LL  you  fans  who  have  wondered  what 
-^-happened  to  that  charming  little  actress 
Laura  La  Plante,  take  heart.  You'll  see  that 
sprightly,  animated  face  again  soon. 

She  comes  back  not  as  a  star  but  as  one  of 
the  three  feminine  leads  in  "Lonely  Wives." 
And  more  power  to  her. 

WHO  should  pop  up  in  New  York's  outlying 
theaters  but  our  old  Perfect  Lover  pal, 
Eugene  O'Brien! 

Gene  revived  his  own  Chicago  comedy  suc- 
"  Steve,"  and  took  it  on  a  whirl  of  the 
Subway  Circuit. 

O'Brien  was  around  New  York  all  fall. 
hankering  for  the  grease  paint  and  spangles. 
Tough  to  have  been  such  a  great  star  in  the 
old  days,  and  then  to  feel  sort  of  out  of  it! 

ALL  the  unmarried  girls  in  Holly- 
wood  will   be   wanting   parts   in 
"Big     Brothers." 

Reason?  The  director  will  be 
Richard  Dix.  Uh-huh,  I  said  director. 
He'll  act  in  it,  too. 

\N  interviewer  called  upon  Gloria  Swanson's 
ex  husband,  the  Marquis,  and  announced 
immediately,  "T'm  here  to  talk  to  you  about 


Every  advertisement  In  l'lTOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE  is  euaranteed. 


rnoTOPi.Av  M ai'..\/.im:  roa  Fl  BSUASY,  1931 


I  I 


your  work  at  the  studio.    I'm  not  going  I 
you  a  thing  about  your  affairs  of  tl»-  heart 

The  pooi  Marquis  fell  <>n  hei  neck  and  irept 
for  joy  What's  more  lit-  talked,  and  interest- 
ingly, too,  for  ho 

MORE  stork  news.  Kay  Ham- 
mond, who  did  such  a  grand 
piece  of  work  in  "Abraham  Lincoln," 
is  Meaaed  wanting  in  February. 

She's  the  wife  of  Hinrv  W.-.uher- 
by,  a  millionaire  shoe  man. 

Oil  agMn,  on  ag*in"-  Hollywood  version: 
Charactei  Actor  I    M    Kerrigan  was 
promised  a  part  in  "Young  Sinners." 

"But  you'll  have  to  take  ofl  about  twelve 
pounds,    said  Director  Frank  Borzage. 

Steam  rooms;  mating*;  diet.    Kerrigan  lost 
\-m. 
But  the  picture  was  postponed. 
I  In- re 'II  l><-  a  pan  for  you  in  •  Seas  Beneath,' 
it  you'll  put  the  poundage  back  on,"  reassured 
Mr  John  Ford. 
Malted    milks,    indolence,    heavy    meals; 
Kerrigan  put  'em  <"i  again. 
Hut  Walter  C.  Kelly  was  given  the  part. 
And  then  Director  Frank  Lloyd  told  k 
gan  he  could  have  a  part  in  "East  Lynne"  if 
he'd  take  ofl  about  ten  pounds. 
Did  Kerrigan  shoot  him? 
No 

He  made  a  contrail  with  a  Turkish  bath 

ARTHUR  THE  GREAT) 
SHIRES,  exhibitionistic  ball 
player,  says  he  is  going  to  drop  "The 
Great"  from  his  handle  while  he's  in 
Hollywood  working  in  pictures. 

"Out  here  it  sounds  so  ordinary," 
says  Art,  according  to  Variety. 

"LJfl'Kl  "s  my  present  pel  story.    Don't  stop 


t   A.- 


-you  haven't  heard  it. 


\  Broadway  playwright,  new  to  Hollywood 
and  talking  very'  large,  got  snagged  in  a  big 
time  poker  game  and  lost  $5,000  in  no  time  at 


St.  Paul,  Minn. 

I  have  heard  the  roar  of  jungle 
beasts,  seen  them  pounce  upon  and 
devour  their  unwary  prey.  I  have 
seen  and  heard  the  smash  of  mighty 
waves  on  the  decks  of  some  helpless 
ship.  I  have  seen  the  life  and  death 
struggles  of  men  and  women  in  every 
walk  of  life,  until  they  are  as  familiar 
to  me  as  my  own. 

I  have  even  felt  that  I  was  standing 
aside,  watching  myself,  free  from  the 
control  of  its  ego,  working  out  its  own 
destiny  in  a  blundering  way.  And 
somehow,  I  have  come  to  see  that  for 
all  the  apparent  purposelessness  of 
life,  the  results  always  follow  a 
greater  plan. 

Yet,  I  am  no  seer,  nor  wizard,  nor 
yet  a  great  traveler.  I  have  seen 
these  things  and  felt  these  experi- 
ences as  my  own  through  the  medium 
of  the  talking  pictures.  I  feel  that 
my  life  is  but  one  of  many  that  have 
been  enriched  through  feeling  these 
sensations  and  meeting  these  new  ex- 
periences. 

Therefore,  I  say  that  talking  pic- 
tures are  the  greatest  civilizing 
influence  of  all  modern  times. 

Joseph  Millard 


Kotex  protects  longer 

that's  why  millions  of  women  prefer  it 


You'll  appreciate  the  lasting  softness 

of  Kotex  .  .  .  the  security  and  safety 

.  .  .  the  fact  that  it  deodorizes. 

BUSY  days.  Hours  of  active  sports,  out-of- 
doors  ;  hours  in  the  theatre,  at  a  tea  or 
dinner.  Then  is  when  you  learn  to  appreciate 
Kotex.  Then  you  realize  fully  the  comfort  of 
its  skilfully  rounded  shaping.  For  it  not  only 
feels  better,  but  it  permits  a  delightful  free- 
dom from  self-consciousness.  Gowns  fit 
smoothly,  perfectly.  Because  Kotex  protection 
is  inconspicuous. 

Hospitdl  preference  is  important 

To  women  who  recognize  the  connection  be- 
tween sanitary  protectives  and  good  health 
this  assurance  is  important:  85^  of  our  lead- 
ing hospitals  use  the  very  same  absorbent  oi 
which  Kotex  is  made  .  .  .  Cellucotton  (not 
cotton)  absorbent  wadding. 

This  is  not  cotton,  you  know,  but  a  deli- 
cately soft,  marvelously  absorbent  substance 
that  has  —  by  actual  test  —  five  times  the  ab- 
sorbency  of  surgical  cotton.  That  is  why  hos- 
pitals choose  it  in  preference  to  cotton  .  .  . 
why  you,  too,  should  prefer  it. 

Kotex  is  soft  and  yielding,  yes.  Moreover 
—  it  stays  soft.  Indeed,  Kotex  is  guaranteed 
to  stay  soft  longer,  to  protect  longer,  than  any 
other  sanitary  pad. 


And  —  first  of  all  its  advantages  —  Kotex 
is  disposable!  In  that  fact,  alone,  lies  one 
of  its  greatest  contributions  to  woman's  sani- 
tary comfort.  Next  time  you  buy  sanitary 
pads,  specify  Kotex. 

Kotex  Company,  Chicago,  Illinois. 


IN   HOSPITALS 

1  85^  of  our  leading  hospitals 
u.-c  the  very  same  absorbent  of 
which  Kotex  is  made. 


2  Safe,  secure 
mind  ac  ease. 


keeps  your 


3  Deodorizes  .  .  .  safely,  thor- 
oughly, by  a  special  process. 

4  Disposable,  instantly,  com- 
pletely. 

Regular  Kotex— 45c  for  12 
Kotex  Super-Size-65c  for  12 
i 

Sec  7/ic  ue/t/  /{ttesx  j£e££~ 

Brings  new  ideals  of  sanitary  comfort  1 

U  oi  en  to  fit  by  an  entirely  new  patented 

process.    Firm  yet  light;  MS?  not  curl; 

perfect-fitting. 

(U.  S.  Patent  No.  1,770,741) 

KOTGX 


The  New  Sanitary  Pad  which  deodorizes 


Wnen  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


r  koudbmri  Jied 


LI  PSTIC  K 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


Loretla  Young,  First  National  Star 

Star  in  your  own 
production  with  this 
TRUE    "LIFE    COLOR" 

Not  all  blonde,  brunette  or  brown  haired 
Kirls  can  have  a  screen  career — but  with  the 
magic  of  Phantom  Red  Lipstick  and  Rouge, 
they  can  be  popular  stars  before  their  daily 
scenic  background  of  business,  sports  or 
evening  affairs.  Lips  aglow  with  youth's 
own  vital  red,  cheeks  abloom  with  the  rose- 
fn-slinc-ss  that  Nature  chose  as  the  one  true 
"Life  Color,"  they  achieve  the  stardom  of 
loveliness  and  personality,  live  their  ro- 
mances, get  their  men  as  surely  as  the  most 
bewitching  beauties  of  the  screen.  Loretta 
Young,  pictured  above,  and  other  famous 
stars  endorse  Phantom  Red. 

Never  before  have  you  used  a  lipstick  so 
real  in  color,  so  soothing,  so  lasting — never 
before  a  rouge  so  elusive,  so  phantom-like 
in  effect  to  blend  perfectly  with  your  indi- 
vidual skin  tone,  with  lights,  with  costume. 
At  leading  toilet  goods  counters — Lipstick, 
SI. 00  and  SOc — Rouge  Compact,  75c. 

Send  10c  each  for  dainty  vanity  sizes  of  , 
Lipstick  and  Rouge  Compact.  Additional 
10c  each  brings  Phantom  Eye  Shadow 
(brown  or  blue-gray)  —  Brow  Liquid 
(brown  or  black).  Carlyle  Laboratories, 
Inc.,  Dept.  247,  67  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York. 

LIPSTICK    ROUCE- EYE   COSMETICS 


MOONLIGHT 

PERFUMATOR 

NewPerfumer  Sensation 
Opens  Door  to  Profits  of 

$14  A  DAY 

Kurorje  has  thrilled  and  marveled  at 
this  strange  Invention  which  in  a  few 
moments  will  charge  the  atmosphere  of  a 
hirnr  room  or  entire  house  with  an  allur- 
iiiK,  delicate,  mysterious  fragrance  — 
more  subtle  than  incense — more  exotic 
than  the  rarest  perfume.  Beautifully 
ornamental:  works  on  any  electric  light. 
Big  Profits  Quick! 

Mahonev  made  S12  llrst  day.  Mrs. 
Carrol)  making  S9  to  Sl">  daily.  Mar- 
velous opportunity  In  homes,  restau- 
rants, hotels,  theatres.  Get  our  Qulck- 
l'rotit  Wholesale  Plan — drug  stores,  gift  shops,  etc.,  sell 
for  you  and  pay  steady  Income. 

SAHirLC  „j  Moonlfcht  Pre- 
Branofl   and  umpb    perfumntor 

Bent  FREE  upon  receipt  of  post- 
age iu«  part  of  our  Introductory 
oampabtn.  Bond  coupon  with  10c 
' v.  r  cost  of  mailing  :,,,d  Imo- 
dium—or  set  Speoinl  $4  00  \- 
sortmonl  now  (or  only  $1.  Full 
.!■•  ilia  of  hora  you  i  in   make   up 

to      $14     •       dlly       uie       iiieludcd. 

MAIL  COUPON    TODAY! 

Illidela  Corp. 

Dept.  8-2.  311  N.  Desplaines  St. 
Chicago         Illinois 


Genuine  Onyx 

I I  our  beau- 
tiful models.  Sub- 
dued heht  inside 
makes  It  smartly 
ornamental. 


Special  Introductory 
OFFER 

$4  VALUE 

only  $1.00 

For  rjuirk  introduction  in  tht) 

H  in.irk.-t  I  hi-  ShOli    I  in..- 

Olfoi  k'ivr>  $4  ralue  special    ie- 

•ortmanl  f<>r  Si.    Bend  i i v 

— n.uil  coupon,  r>->y  postman  on 
daUrery 


Special  Offer  Coupon 


Illidela  Corp.,  Dept.  8-2,  311  N.  Dasplainos  St.,  Chicago.  II 

□   Plcn.se  wnd  Special  $4  Introductory  Offer  for  which  I  »  ill  im 
$1  will,  under. Module  you  will  refund  money  if  1  am  not  « 
CD  Am  enclosing  10c  postage  on  Free  Sample. 


all.  Hi-  grandly  wrote  a  check  for  the  five  grand 
on  a  New  York  bank,  and  that  was  that. 

lint  in  clue  time  the  paper  bounced  back, 
marked  "not  sufficient  funds." 

And  was  the  author  sore!  "By  jove,"  he 
thundered,  "  I'm  going  to  wire  them  right  away 
and  cancel  my  safely  deposit  box!" 

HPHE  director  came  to  the  costume  designer. 
■*-  "Now  I  want  you  to  be  very  careful  about 
how  you  dress  the  star  for  this  picture,"  he  said. 
"I'll  tell  you  about  her  characterization.  She 
is  very  charming,  very  modern,  very  sophisti- 
cated  and  at  the  same  time  quite  effeminate." 

WHEN  Director  Roy  Pomeroy  first  came  to 
pictures  as  an  artist,  he  was  asked  by  one 
of  those  unit  managers  whether  he  had  any 
intention  of  ever  acting. 

"Hardly,"  said  Pomeroy.  "You  see,  I've  no 
histrionic  knowledge  at  all." 

"Aw,  hell,  you  don't  got  to  know  anything 
about  history  to  be  an  actor!"  was  the 
assurance. 

AVERY  arty  director  was  talking  to  a  very 
business-like  actor. 

"Let  me  see,"  said  the  director,  "what  mood 
do  I  want  here?  Ah,  I've  got  it.  Do  you  know 
that  gorgeous  picture  in  the  east  wing  of  the 
Louvre." 

"No,"  said  the  actor. 

"That's  it,"  said  the  director.  "That's  it. 
I  want  the  feel  and  pity  and  despair  of  that 
picture  in  this  scene." 

THE  other  day  in  Hollywood  the 
newsboys  were  screaming  some- 
thing about  Garbo. 

Buried  on  one  of  the  sports  pages 
was  a  headline  that  read,  "Garbo 
Scores  Touchdown."  But  it  was  only 
a  kid  football  player  of  Los  Angeles 
named  Santos  Garbo. 


WHAT?    Still  "another  Garbo"? 
Insiders  say  that  Universal  has  a  dead 
ringer  for  the  Swedish  wonder  under  contract. 
1  ler  name  is  Tala  Birell,  an  actress  well  known 
in  Germany. 
The  day  of  mystery  is  with  us. 

DORIS  KENYON,  widow  of  Milton  Sills, 
sent  a  S50  check  to  the  Los  Angeles  Fire 
Department  pension  fund  for  widows  and 
orphans. 

An  inhalator  squad  from  the  department 
worked  hard  and  long,  but  in  vain,  in  an  effort 
to  save  Milton's  life  the  day  he  collapsed. 

SCREECHERS  are  still  coming  to  light 
from  Clara  Bow's  location  trip  to  New  York 
last  fall.  Here's  the  latest,  retailed  by  Harrison 
Carroll. 

Clara  was  about  to  drive  out  of  a  garage  in  a 
big  car.  A  property  man  on  the  sidewalk  held 
up  one  of  these  circular  sun  deflectors  about 
five  feet  in  diameter. 

One  of  the  onlookers  shook  his  head.  "  She'll 
never  do  it!"  he  said,  with  plenty  conviction. 

"Do  what?"  said  another. 

"Jump  that  big  car  through  that  little  hoop ! " 

SINCE  Jack  Dempsey  has  taken 
over  the  big  hotel  at  Ensenada,  a 
new  and  grand  resort  in  Mexico,  all 
of  the  local  Hollywood  scribes  are 
begging  to  be  allowed  to  do  stories 
on  Estelle  Taylor. 

WHEN  you  see  a  certain  heavy  drama, 
featuring  one  of  the  most  exotic  of  stars, 
you  will  notice  the  star  running  up  the  stairs 
while  her  leading  man  follows  her  in  hot  pursuit. 
Originally  the  script  demanded  that  the  hero 
carry  the  heroine  up  the  steps.  But  the  lady 
was  no  featherweight  and  the  actor  no  giant  of 
strength.     Great  minds  banded  together  and 


Most  of  us  thought  she  was  great  in  the  old  serial  days,  when  she  and 
Francis  Ford  came  to  the  town  movie  house  each  week  in  a  new  slice  of 
rip-snorting  serials.  This  is  Grace  Cunard  today — out  at  Universal,  her 
old  stamping  ground,  playing  small  parts  in  "Resurrection"  and  "Heroes 
of  the  Flames."    Like  all  old  troupers,  Grace  is  miserable  away  from  the 

Kliegs 


Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


I'lioiui'i  w   M\..\/im    i ui<  February,  1931 


i  i 


the  decision  on  the  change  in  at  tion  h  u  nada 

within  tWO  hotl 

CLARA  l"  >U  "S  getting  rid  "i  pooch 
S  .hi   know,  |he  h.is  imnrd   more  dogl  th.in 

any  other  person  in  Hollywood  except  maybe 
tin-  people  who  run  the  M-G-M  bark 

Anyway,   Clara's   !.i-.t   *  1  i ^ i »•  -  i|>cr- 

fluous  canines  reduced  her  Great  Dane  hold- 

i.oin  lour  to  tWO       That  CUt  her  food  bill 

from  more  than  S ux >  to  somewhere  thou 
And  besides,  one  of  then  sol  sick  and  coal  hex 
nearly  1200  tor  veterinarying-  so  as  soon  at  ii 
iras  well,  slu-  gave  it  away. 

ASTOItt      has    been     going    around     the 
counU)   thai  "Disraeu"  loot  money  for 
Warner  Brothi 

It  i^n'l  true,    ["he  PbOTOFI  \y  Mr.lal  winner 
did  excellent  business  in  the  larger  cities  and 

drew  fair  to  middling  crowds  10  the  smaller 
towns,  and  the  earnings  of  the  lilm  were 
entirely  satisfat  t'>r> 

What  is  more  important,  "Disraeli''  <li'l 
more  to  tnuld  prestige  for  Warner  Brothers 

than  any  picture  the  company  has  ever  made. 

In  short,  everyone  is  happ\  about  "  Disraeli" — 
w  irners,  Mr.  George  rVrliss,  and  all  the  true 
fans  of  the  country  who  taw  it  and  enjoyed  it- 

W ALTER  WINCHELL,  chatter- 
writer,  says  that  Molly  O'Day 
is    going    to    marry    George    Raft, 
dancer,  as  soon  as  his  present  matri- 
monial ties  are  snipped. 
Ask  Walter,  not  me. 


A 


DIAMOND  jive  Rita  La  R 
awaj 

Rita  is  the  Radio  Pictures'  vamp  who's 
grown  famous  for  socking  mashers  on  the 
button. 

"1  hate  men."  she  Used  to  say. 

Then  what'     \\  hy,  one  day  not  so  long  BgOj 

Rita  appeared  on  the  lot  wearing  a  huge  dia- 
mond on  that  linger. 

\t  Gtrst  she  refused  to  discuss  it    "Uhhuh," 

she  admitted.  "I'm  engaged,  but  it's  no  busi- 
ness who  he  is.    Besides,  he  only  just  Rot  his 

divorce." 

Hut  she  admitted  at  last  that  it's  one  l{en 
i'u-lil,  actors'  agent.    They  can't  marry 
until  his  decree  is  final,  next  November. 

E\  I  R  since  the  playground  of  Hollywood — 
M.ililm  Beach-  was  swept  by  tire  late  in 
December,  the  actors  have  been  working  to 
protect  their  favorite  fun  colony  from  tire 
hazards. 

I'p  to  now  there  has  been  no  tire  protection 
at  all.  When  flames  broke  out  and  swept  nine- 
teen beach  houses  away  early  one  chill  winter 
morning,  firemen  were  helpless.  They  drew 
water  from  the  ocean  by  suction,  only  to  find 
the  hose  lines  dogged  with  sand  And  $,X(X),000 
worth  of  happy  little  beach  homes  went  up  in 
smoke  and  cinders. 

Among  those  whose  homes  were  lost  were 
Marie  Prevost,  Frank  Fay,  Director  David 
Butler,  Song-W'riter  Buddy  de  Sylva,  Louise 
Fazenda,  Producer  Al  Rockett  and  Directors 
Allan  Dwan  and  Leo  McCarey.  It  was  a  sad 
night,  mates'.  Only  eight  of  the  nineteen 
houses  were  occupied  when  the  fire  started 
from  a  gasoline  explosion,  but  the  occupants 
of  those  were  driven  to  the  beach  in  their 
nighties. 

LEW  "ALL  QUIET"  AYRES  was 
having  breakfast  one  recent 
Sunday  morning  at  the  Brown  Derby. 
He  ordered  poached  eggs  on  toast. 
When  they  were  served  the  toast  had 
been  cut  round,  the  shape  of  the  egg. 
Lew  took  one  look  at  it  and  ex- 
claimed, "For  goodness  sake,  don't 
serve  me  that  sissy  toast  any  more. 
I  want  mine  without  the  corners 
cut."  And  it  had  to  be  served  that 
way !  What  a  war  picture  will  do  for 
a  nice  boy. 


COLDS 

fill  handkerchiefs 

WITH 
GERMS 


boiling  water  fails 
to  kill  them! 

A  handkerchief  used 

during  colds  is  unfit 

to  be  used  again. 


Avoid  Reinfection 

Use  Kleenex  disposable 

handkerchiefs 


NOW  comes  dramatic  proof  of  the 
importance  of  Kleenex  during 
colds.  Scientific  tests  show  that  these 
delicate  tissue  handkerchiefs  may  mate- 
rially check  the  number  of  colds,  and 
their  duration. 

For  these  authoritative  tests  prove 
conclusively  that  washing  fails  to  kill 
the  organisms  associated  with  colds. 
This  means  your  handkerchief  may  be 
a  source  of  danger.  Even  after  washing, 
it  may  hold  the  organisms  Streptococcus, 
Staphylococcus,  the  deadly  Pneumococ- 
cal and  Micrococcus  Catarrhalis. 

Use  Kleenex— then  discard 
When  you  use  Kleenex,  there's  no 
possible  danger  of  reinfection  from 
handkerchiefs.  You  use  Kleenex  just 
once.  Then  you  discard  it  forever. 
Germs  are  discarded,  too. 

You'll  value  the  greater  comfort  of 
Kleenex.  The  tissues  are  exquisitely 
fine  and  soft.  They  are  marvelously  ab- 
sorbent— seeming  actually  to  soothe  the 
tender,  inflamed  skin.  There's  no  chance 


of  irritation,  as  from  the  damp,  soiled 
handkerchief.  Kleenex  is  an  economy, 
too  —  the  cost  is  less  than  that  of 
laundering. 

The  beauty  use  for  Kleenex 

These  absorbent  tissues  are  said  by  beauty 
experts  to  be  the  only  safe  and  sanitary 
way  to  remove  creams  and  cosmetics. 
They  lift  every  trace  of  dirt  along  with 
cleansing  cream  and  save  your  towels 
from  cosmetic  stains  and  grease. 

Ask  for  Kleenex  at  any  drug,  dry 
goods  or  department  store  ...  or  send 
the  coupon  for  a  generous  sample  free. 


FREE   TRIAL    PACKAGE 

Kleenex  Company,              ^KNMaiBBM 
I.  a  k  e   Michigan                 ^^Z         a^r 
Bldg.,   Chicago,   111.        r::::^     'H^. 

Flease  send  me  a                  ^EB^B^      ^1 
trial   supply    of      ">aa^a^fl    ar             J 
Kleenex.                                             !•II^!**,*™^ 

^frrt 

City 

Stntr 

In  Canada,  address: 

330  Bay  St.,  Toronto,  Ont. 

WWn  you  writ*  to  adwvtbers  pfaace  mention  PHOTO  PLAT  MAGAZINE. 


n6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  193 

^m  I  "COX  has  made  another  discovery. 
^      *-      Vou  will  remember  they  made  an  actor  out 

^- '  I  of  John  Wayne,  who  used  to  be  a  property  boy. 
Now  they  have  picked  another  property  boy 
for  an  acting  job.  His  name  is  Carter  Gibson, 
who  started  as  an  extra  in  "Girls  Demand 
Excitement,"  and  was  given  a  larger  part  when 
he  showed  possibilities.  Young  Wayne  is  the 
picture's  leading  man. 

re  is  a  third  ex-property  boy  in  the  pic- 
ture. Eddie  Nugent,  who.  also  featured,  used  to 
carry  stuff  around  the  Metro  Studio  before  he 
got  his  acting  opportunity.  Three  ex-property 
men  in  one  picture  is  practically  a  perfect 
score. 


Grow 


Yes,  Grow  Eyelashes  and  Eye- 
brows like  this  in  30  Days 

Marvelous  new  discovery! — makes  eyelashes  and  eye- 
brows actually  gruw!  Now  as  never  before  you  can 
positively  have  long,  curling,  silken  lashes  and  beauti- 
ful, wonderful  eyebrows, 

I  say  to  you  in  plain  English  that  no  matter  how  scant 
your  eyelashes  and  brows,  I  will  increase  their  length 
and  thickness  in  30  days — or  not  accept  one  penny. 
No  "its",  "ands"  or  "niaybes" — you  actually  see 
startling  results— or  no  pay !  You  be  the  judge. 

Over  xo.oco  Women  Prove  It 
—prove  beyond  a  doubt  that  this  astounding  new 
discovery  fringes  the  eyes  with  long,  curling  natural 
lashes — makes  eyebrows  lovely,  silken  lines.  Read 
what  they  say — sworn  to  under  oath  before  a  notary 
public.  From  Mile.  Hefflelinger,  240  W.  "B"  St., 
Carlisle,  Pa.;  "I  certainlj-  am  delighted...  people  now 
remark  how  long  and  silky  my  eyelashes  appear." 
From  Naomi  Otstot,  5437  Westminster  Ave.,  W. 
Philadelphia,  Pa.;  "I  am  greatly  pleased.  My  eye- 
brows and  lashes  are  beautiful  now."  Frances  Haviart 
of  Jeanette,  Pa.  says:  "Your  Eyelash  and  Eyebrow 
Beautifier  is  simply  marvelous."  Flora  J.  Corriveau, 
Biddeford,  Me.,  says  "With  your  Method  my  eye- 
lashes are  growing  long  and  luxurious." 

Results  Evident  In  One  Week 
In  one  week — often  in  a  day  or  so — you  see  the  lashes 
become  more  beautiful,  like  silken  fringe!  The  darling 
little  upward  curl  shows  itself  and  eyebrows  become 
sleek.    It's  the  thrill  of  a  lifetime — when  you  have 
lashes  and  brows  as  beautiful  as  any  ever  seen. 
Remember — I  guarantee  you  satisfactory  results  in 
30  days — or  your  money  refunded  in  full.  I  mean  just 
that — no  quibble,  no  strings. 
Send    today.     Special  Intro-  ^P         ^o 

ductory  Price  only  SI. 95  /  -40  '  4£i*wi 
NOW!  Later  $5.00.  Order  JU&a*'  J*/ 
NOW  at  low  price.  "  '        ' 

Sent  C.  O.  D.—Or  if  money  accom- 
panies order  postage  will  be  prepaid. 


-  Lucille  Young,      6362  Lucille  Young  Bldg.,  Chicago, 
£  Send  me  your  new  discovery  for  growing  eyelashes 
I  and  eyebrows.    It  not  entirely  satisfied,  I'll  return 
•In  30  <lavs  and  you  refund  my  money. 
>         Price  C.  O.  D.  Is  $1.95  plus  few  cents  postage 
Z         Jf  $1.95  sent  with  order  postage  will  be  paid. 
;         Check  it  money  enclosed  D  or  C.  O.  D.  D 


2  Name 

j  St.  Address 

;Clty State 


Itching 
torture 
ended! 


> 


% 


Don't  suffer  night  and  day 
with  itching,  burning  skin. 
Get  cooling,  soothing,  anti- 
septic Zemo.  Thousands  find 
relief  in  first  application. 
Safe,  dependable,  invisible.  Zemo  helps  re- 
store skin  to  healthy  smoothness.  Use  any 
time  for  Itching,   Dandruff.   Pimples,  Bltm- 


' 


ishes.  35t, 

6()c,  S1.00.  All  Druggists 

m    *  -J 

F?  l] 

•  1 

|FOR 

SKIN 

IRRITATIONS 

HOLLYWOOD  was  plunged  into  a  lot  of 
gloom  when  the  Hank  of  Hollywood  closed 
its  doors  a  few  weeks  ago. 

Many  players,  producers  and  attaches  of  the 
cinema  found  their  funds  suddenly  tied  up  in  a 
knot. 

One  of  the  hardest  hit  was  John  Halliday, 
that  excellent  player  from  the  stage  who  has 
scored  in  many  pictures  recently.  He  had 
817,000  on  deposit,  and  was  about  ready  to 
start  a  European  holiday. 

The  trip  was  off. 

THE  late  unpleasantness  between 
Director  Ernst  Lubitsch  and  Hans 
Kraly  brought  forth  the  usual  abun- 
dance of  smart  cracks. 

Harrison  Carroll  says  he  knows 
what  is  meant  by  "the  Lubitsch 
touch."  It  is  a  left  hook.  And  Jim 
Mitchell  observes  that  Hans  Kraly 
had  no  business  dancing  with  jeers 
in  his  eyes. 

OXE  of  the  most  astonishing  sights  of  all  is 
George  Hurrell,  the  head  guy  photo- 
graphically on  the  M-G-M  lot,  taking  por- 
traits. 

He  has  a  rickety  camera.  He  uses  only  a 
couple  of  lights.  His  equipment  falls  to  pieces 
as  he  works  and  he  keeps  up  a  running  line  of 
nonsensical  chatter.  The  trick  is  that  he 
sneaks  up  on  the  stars  and  nobody  yet  has 
known  exactly  what  moment  the  picture  is 
made. 

It  breaks  the  hearts  of  those  little  girls  with 
thirty-four  expressions  for  the  camera. 


rV/fAN  BE  you  think  impressionable  fans  are 
■"■Mhe  only  people  who  collect  screen  stars' 
signatures.  You're  wrong!  Consider,  for 
instance,  William  Collier,  Sr.,  veteran  of  years 
of  stage  and  screen.  In  the  den  of  his  home, 
Collier  has  a  huge  buff -colored  settee. 

And  scrawled  all  over  it  are  the  signatures 
of  hundreds  of  celebrities.  It's  a  rite  they  have 
to  go  through  when  they  visit  him — sign  on 
the  settee. 

THERE'S  another  Marx  brother 
in  New  York  who  doesn't  care 
anything  about  the  stage.  He's  in 
the  cloak  and  suit  business,  and 
doing  well. 

T  UPE  VELEZ  has  just  discovered  the  gas- 
■'-'tronomic  delights  of  that  famous  old  South- 
em  dish,  hominy.  She  wants  it  served  at  every 
meal.  But  she  can't  remember  how  to  pro- 
nounce it.  The  other  day  she  went  into  a  res- 
taurant and  insisted  that  she  be  given  some 
'"  mahogany. " 

Her  secretary  has  discovered  a  way  to  make 
her  remember.  She  told  her  to  say  "How 
many.  "  When  Lupe  says  this  quickly  it  makes 
"hominy."' 

HOBART  BOSWORTH  was  working  on  lo- 
cation in  "The  Third  Alarm."'  Between 
shots,  he'd  stroll  to  the  sidelines  to  chat  with 
youngsters  who  crowded  to  watch  the  film 
shooting.  He  was  resplendent  in  a  fireman's 
uniform. 

During  one  rest,  a  red-headed  kid  asked: 
"Say,  mister;  are  you  a  real  fireman?"' 
Hobart  winked  at  some  fellow  players  as  he 
replied : 

"  Xo.  my  child,  I'm  just  another  motion  pic- 
ture actor  and  not  a  very  good  one  at  that. " 
The  kid  grinned. 
"That's  just  what  I  thought,"  she  cackled. 

THERE'S  an  assistant  director  on  the 
M-G-M  lot  named  Eddie  Brophy. 
One  day  they  needed  a  man  to  play  a  hard 
boiled  bit  and  Eddie  stepped  in  and  did  the 
part.  He  did  it  so  well  that  they  wanted  to 
make  an  actor  out  of  him  right  away.  "Xo 
sir."  said  Eddie,  "I  know  this  racket.  I'd 
rather  be  an  assistant  director  and  eat  three 
square  meals  a  day." 


A  happy  pair.    Newlyweds  in  the  person  of  Natalie  Moorhead,  well-known 
screen   siren,   and  Director  Alan   Crosland,   under  contract  to   Warner 

Brothers 


Every  advertisement  In  PIIOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Maoazini   i"K  Febbi  \kv,  1931 


117 


they  have  li>  trick  hini  im  I  hey 

hire  him  .i-~  an  assistant  am!  then  jive  him  ■ 
pai  i  to  pk 

II.  .  Ii.ir.n  t.  r-  in   B 

iranl  Ma 
Bui  the  example  has  been  ibi 
nil  the  prop  men  an  ^  the 

carpenter!  an  begging  i<>r  a  chance  to  u  L 

ANN  HARDING  was  looking  over 
her  press  clippings.  Among 
them  was  a  most  unfair  newspaper 
interview  in  which  the  writer  said 
that  she  wore  a  shabby,  shiny  blue 
serge    coat. 

Ann  sighed  "Well,"  she  said, 
"I  guess  that  will  teach  me  a  lesson. 
That  'shabby'  coat  was  an  origm.il 
French  model,  the  only  one  I  ever 
owned.    It  cost  $750." 

XT( )  wonder  the  >t.ir>,  refuse  tO  help  unknown 
k 'writers  who  pour  out  their  grief  through 
I  n's  mails! 

Louise  Faxenda  received  .1  pathetic  letter 

from  a  man  not  so  lorn;  .. 

Tin-  miter  ^.ii'1  that  he  musl  come  to  Cali 

fomia  for  liis  health,  and  gave  the  name  oi  his 
doctor  as  reference. 

I  ouise  wrote  the  doctor,  and  then  sent  him 

the  SKX)  for  which  he  asked.  Back  came 
another  letter  asking  for  transportation  for  his 
wife  and  child.     That  was  a  bit  too  much  for 

Louise,  and  she  declined  to  increase  her  original 

otTer. 

The  answer  ma  a  letter  of  hitter  denuncia- 
tion 

N     thanks  for  the  original  $100 

ITEMS  entitled  Who  Cares?— 
.  .  Mitchell     Lewis    owns    nine    pairs    of 
polling  pants  ...  he  doesn't  play  golf  .  .  . 
17,500  extras  are  listed  at  the  Central  Casting 

office  in  Hollywood  .  .  .  and  some  of  them  get 

a    job    now    and    then  .  .  .  Charlie    Chaplin 


Tampa,  Fla. 

This  past  year,  when  so  much 
trouble  stalked  abroad,  my  husband 
became  very  ill  and  lost  his  position, 
and  in  trying  to  take  care  of  him  I 
lost  my  job;  then  the  largest  local 
bank  failed,  and  nearly  all  of  our  sav- 
ings were  swept  away.  What  dis- 
aster -and  I  only  a  bride  of  a  few- 
months. 

Sometimes  I  felt  as  if  the  bitterest 
dregs  in  the  cup  of  life  were  my  por- 
tion, and  then  it  was  that  I  would 
steal  off  to  a  movie  for  a  few  hours. 
And  lo!  from  the  theater  I  would 
tread  with  a  lightened  step,  my  heart 
more  glad,  stars  in  my  eyes — and  the 
troubles  of  the  day  lessened.  It's 
inexplainable— the  effect  that  a  few- 
short  hours  in  a  motion  picture  house 
will  have  on  a  burdened  mind  and 
heart. 

Somehow  you  are  lifted  right  out  of 
yourself,  and  all  of  those  wearying 
cares  are  forgotten. 

I  once  read  that  the  American 
people  would  do  without  bread  in 
order  to  see  and  hear  talkies.  And 
the  writer  asked,  "Why?"  Oh !  fool- 
ish question!  Because  the  talkies 
are  as  essential  as  bread.  They  are 
our  moral  stimulus,  and  how  often 
we  need  it! 

V.  L. 


ACE  STEALS  INTO  A    LOVELY  FACE 
BY    THREE    UNGUARDED    PATHS 

EXACTLY  what  lias  happened  vhen  a  woman  oegms  to 
look,  old  :  .Dorothy  C»ray  discovered  tliat  tins  tragic 
transformation  can  arise  Irom  any  one  oi  three  causes — Irom 
three  Significant  conditions  too  often  overlooked.  1  lie.se  are: 
J\  taint  drooping  of  the  undercnin  —  a crepineas oi  tne  throat 
texture  —  a  deepening  ol  the  little  lines  around  the  eyes  and 
mouth. 

Criiard  your  youthful  appearance  r>y  following  the  treatments 
■\»  Inch  Dorothv  Crrav  evolved,  simple  scientific  treatments 
especially  planned  to  -ward  oil  the  three  telltale  signs  ol  age. 
lou  can  easily  give  yourself  these  successful  treatments  at 
home,  using  the  same  preparations  -which  have  been  tried  and 
tested  111  the  .Dorothy  Crray  salons,  lou  will  find  these 
Dorothy  (jray  preparations  at  leading  shops  cvervwnere. 
Write  or  ask  lor  the  Dorothy  Crray  hooklet  on  home  care 
OD.o.,i9Ji       0f  tI,e    sk,„. 


DOROTHY    CRAY 


P^;, 


683  FIFTH  AVENUE,  NEW  YORK 

Telephone   WlCkenkam   6109 
Chicago       Lo*  Angeles        San  Francisco       "\s  a-ininjton       Atlantic  City 


When  you  write  to  idTertlsers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  HAGAZLYE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  Iibruary,  1931 


das13!  «D^^ 


fttv 


DO  you  long  for  beauty,  for  the  divine 
glow  of  youth  that  comes  only  with 
perfect  health?  Just  try  Dr.  Edwards  Olive 
Tablets,  for  a  few  nights.  Thousands  have  been 
delighted  with  the  way  color  returns  to  the 
skin  when  pimples  and  blotches  vanish,  with 
the  joy  of  feeling  full  of  life,  tireless  and  ener- 
getic from  morning  till  night.  These  tablets,  a 
fine  substitute  for  calomel,  and  far  easier  to 
take,  were  for  20  years  prescribed  to  folks 
bothered  with  liver  trouble  and  constipation. 

Gentle  in  action — wonderfully  effective 

Dr.  Edwards  Olive  Tablets  assist  nature  in  re- 
storing to  normal  the  liver  and  bowels  by 
sweeping  away  the  poisons  that  harm  the  skin, 
ravage  health  and  hurry  old  age. 

A  tested  compound  of  vegetable  ingredients. 
You  can  tell  Dr.  Edwards  Olive  Tablets  by 
their  olive  color.  From  now  on,  don't  endure 
sallow  skin,  headaches,  or  listlessness — take 
Dr.  Edwards  Olive  Tablets  and  get  quick 
relief  from  the  ills  due  to  clogged  intestines. 
Get  a  package  from  your  druggist,  15£,  30f, 
60£.  Get  the  large  size  so  that  you'll  always 
have  them  handy. 


Stay  BLONDE 

...you  owe  it  to  HIM 

DONT  slack.  He'll  be  the  first  to  notice  when 
your  golden  hair  begins  to  darken.  Use 
Blondex,  the  special  shampoo  that  not  only  pre- 
vents darkening — but  safely  restores  soft- 
gleaming  brilliance  to  dull,  faded  blonde  hair. 
Not  a  dye.  No  harmful  chemicals.  Fine  for  scalp. 
A  million  delighted  Blondex  users  can't  be 
wrong.  At  all  the  leading  drug  and  department 
stores.  Try  Blondex  today. 


Wl.)AM*i'YXA\MUlil*m 


Particulars    of    Dr.  Esenwein'a    famous    forty - 
□    course   in  writing  and  marketing  of  the 
Short-Story  and  sample  copy  of   TllE  W'RITEB'S 
Monthly  free.    Write  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL 
Dcpt    95.  Springfield,  Mass. 


subscribes  to  three  clipping  bureaus  and  gets 
an  average  of  5,000  cuttings  a  month  ...  for 
which  he  has  to  pay  from  two  to  five  cents  each. 
.  .  .  Will  Hays  can  dictate  to  two  stenogra- 
phers at  the  same  time  .  .  .  Joseph  Schenck  used 
to  be  a  drug  clerk  on  New  York's  Bowery  just 
around  the  corner  from  where  Irving  Berlin 
was  a  singing  waiter  .  .  .  Elinor  Glyn  has  a 
dimple  in  her  chin  and  a  warmly  autographed 
photo  of  her  hangs  in  a  Hollywood  plastic 
surgeon's  reception  room  .  .  .  William  S. 
Hart  was  once  a  mail  clerk. 

MAYBE  you  don't  care,  and  maybe  you 
won't  agree,  but  anyway,  here's  Douglas 
Fairbanks'  idea  of  the  three  greatest  things  in 
talkies — 

Edmund  Goulding  as  director. 
Will  Rogers  as  actor-humorist. 
Mickey  Mouse  cartoons. 


The  Shadow  Stage 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  55  ] 


FREE  LOVE— Universal 

IF  your  wife  spends  her  time  and  your  money 
with  a  psycho-analyst  and  if  you've  wanted 
to  give  her  a  good  sock  on  the  chin  because  of  it, 
you'll  love  this  picture.  Anyhow,  that's  the 
punch  in  the  story.  And  Conrad  Nagel  accom- 
plishes it  with  gusto.  Genevieve  Tobin,  of  the 
modem  school  of  acting,  is  pretty  affected. 
Not  a  great  film,  but  amusing  in  spots. 

RED  UCING—M-G-M 

MARIE  DRESSLER  and  Polly  Moban 
aided  and  abetted  by  a  perfectly  grand 
cast,  work  like  fiends  to  make  another  picture 
as  funny  as  "Caught  Short."  They  have  such 
fun  in  a  reducing  parlor!  Oh,  you'll  laugh,  all 
right.  But  all  the  same,  there  /;afce  been  fun- 
nier pictures.  Lucien  Littlefield,  Anita  Page, 
Sally  Eilers,  Buster  Collier  and  stuttering 
Rosco  Ates — they  all  work  hard,  too. 

THE  DANCERS— Fox 

A  SOPHISTICATED  talkie  of  the  rambling 
type  that  isn't  at  its  best  on  the  screen. 
Made  from  a  stage  play  by  Sir  Gerald  Du  Mau- 
rier,  the  picture  lacks  pace  enough  to  be  good 
entertainment.  The  players  seem  to  slow  up  in 
time  with  the  story.  Lois  Moran  goes  to  the 
mat  with  an  unsympathetic  role — that  of  a 
dance  hall  girl.  Phillips  Holmes  is  miscast  as  a 
nobleman  playing  lumberjack. 

FIGHTING  CARAVANS— Paramount 

PARAMOUNT  climbs  on  the  band-wagon  a 
bit  late  by  remaking  "The  Covered  Wagon." 
Gary  Cooper  plays  a  young  scout  with  the  ani- 
mation of  a  potato.  Lily  Damita  does  all  she 
can  with  a  weak  part.  Ernest  Torrence  and 
Tully  Marshall,  as  two  drunken  old  Indian- 
Scouts,  steal  the  picture,  as  they  did  originally. 
The  Indians  are  gorgeous  and  the  snow  scenes 
and  photography  in  general  are  beautiful. 

ANYBODY'S  GIRL— Columbia 

A  REAL-LIFE  picture  that  misses  by  a  hair. 
A  taxi-dancer  in  a  dime  dance  hall  rejects 
a  philandering  wealthy  admirer  to  marry  a 
virtuous  clerk.  He  turns  out  to  be  a  cheap  fake, 
and  she  marries  the  rich  man.  Ricardo  Cortez 
really  looks  and  acts  like  a  gentleman;  Barbara 
Stanwyck's  performance  rings  true.  A  praise- 
worthy effort  in  realism. 

CHISELERS  OF  HOLLYWOOD— 
Willis  Kent  Prod. 

TT'S  first  rate  entertainment,  with  hokum. 
■■-humor  and  heart  interest  well  proportioned. 
Phyllis    Barrington,   a    newcomer,   steals   the 


What  $1.25 

Will  Bring  You 

In  six  issues  of  Photo- 
play Magazine  hun- 
dreds of  unusual  pic- 
tures of  photoplayers 
and  illustrations  of  their 
work  and  pastime. 

Scores  of  interesting  ar- 
ticles about  the  people 
you  see  on  the  screen. 

Splendidly  written 
short  stories,  some  of 
which  you  will  see 
acted  at  your  moving 
picture  theater. 

Brief  reviews  of  cur- 
rent pictures  with  full 
casts  of  stars  playing. 

The  truth  and  nothing 
but  the  truth,  about 
motion  pictures,  the 
stars,  and  the  industry. 

You  have  read  this  issue 
of  Photoplay,  so  there  is 
no  necessity  for  telling  you 
that  it  is  one  of  the  most 
superbly  illustrated,  the 
best  written  and  most  at- 
tractively printed  maga- 
zines published  today  — 
and  alone  in  its  field  of 
motion  pictures. 

Send  a   money   order   or   check 
for  $1.25  addressed  to 

Photoplay  Magazine 

Dept.  H-2,  919No.  Michigan  Av.,  CHICAGO 

and   receive  the  next  issue  and 
fire  issues  thereafter. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Department  H-2 
919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  $1.25  (Can- 
ada $1.50;  Foreign  $1.75),  for  which  you  will 
kindly  enter  my  subscription  for  Photoplay 
MAGAZINE  for  six  months  (six  issues)  effective 
with  the  next  issue. 


Send  to. 


Street  Address. 


City 


State 


Kur>   tdrertlsement  In  rilOTOPI.AY  MAGAZINE  is  gtiarnntecd. 


Photoplay  Magazini    h>k  Febbi  \my,  1931 


i  i  o 


ol  tin-  three  damsels,  lmt 
Shrila  Mannon  and  Rita  LaRo)  give  hi  • 
for  it      Good  >>l<l  Edmund  K"  iperb. 

I  his  ii  grand  movie  for  .ill  the  family. 

ii  s/   /  1K1    hi  11  I  \ 

Tiffany  Prodtti  ttOtli 

AH  M  I'll  romance  between  .1  '■  ■ 
and  a  toe  dancer  I  lu-  featured  player  i- 
fifteen  year  old  Anita  Louise.  In  tome  scene* 
■he  manages  t<>  appear  particularly  beautiful 
Mid  appealing  [n  others,  amateuruh.  David 
'1  i-.  the  leading  man.  Gaston  Glass,  ^  ola 
I  >'  Vvril,  Thomas  Jefferson  and  others  in  tup 
port     \  r.ms  locale  in<  reasea  the  interest 

I  lit  <  o\l\l  \\l>  PERFORM  in-  / 
Tiflany-Cruwt  Productions 

L<>\!)  up  with  chuckles  when  you 
this  one.     It's  one  of   those   never  i«>r  a- 
moment-serious  affairs  between  those  mythical 
minnie-golf  >iz.ol  kingdoms.    Neil  Hamilton  .is 
the  impostor  prime  who  woo6  the  princess  is 

siiperli,  l'n. i  Merkel  a-  the  u i r  1  is  lovely;   \lliert 

Gran  .is  the  king  is  priceless  1    Walter  Land's 

direction   is   exquisite,   particularly    when   lie's 

naughty. 

WESTWARD  BOUND    Syndicate 

WW.,  wal.  wal — thar's  gold  in  them 
thar  movies,"  sei  Buffalo  Hill.  Jr.,  who- 
ever he  is,  and  forthwith  luukles  on  US  SU 
shooters,  jumps  on  a  horse  and  a  script,  ami 
gallops  up  to  a  microphone  ami  camera.  He 
does  a  lot  of  riding  ami  shooting,  ami  so  do  the 
other  people  in  the  picture.  And  when  it's  all 
over,  w hat  of  it5 

MEN  WITHOUT  LAW      Columbia 

M\N  BE  you  ami  I  aren't  seeing  the  little 
Westerns  that  are  being  shown  just  around 
the  corner,  hut  certainly  Columbia  is  making 
money  off  Buck  Jones'  pictures  or  they  wouldn't 
lie  turning  them  out  so  fast  Carmelita 
Geraghty  is  the  beautiful  leading  woman  in 
this  and  never  looked  so  lovely  in  her  life.  The 
story  is  varied  by  Spanish  locale  and  holds 
interest  throughout. 

\/  IDONS  \  OF  THE  STREETS— 
Columbia 

EVELYN    BRENT   triumphs  over  an   old 
yarn    in    this   picture.      She   plays    the   girl 
friend  of  a  wealthy  man  and  decides  that   he 
Owes  her  at  least  a  million.     So  she  comes  to 
York,  joins  an  evangelistic  society — and 
promptly  falls  in  love  with  the  head  man  at  the 


$2050.00  IN  7(1  CASH    IMUZKS 


Utica  Institute,  Miss. 

It  is  very  hard  to  endure  the  loss  of 
the  greatest  opportunity  of  your  life. 
That  is  just  what  happened  to  me  last 
spring. 

I  was  about  to  graduate  from  high 
school  with  honors  after  four  years 
of  hard  struggling  and  like  a  bolt  out 
of  the  clear  blue  my  father's  con- 
tinued sickness  called  me  home  to 
the  farm  to  make  a  living  for  the 
family. 

Life  was  very  dull  to  me  for 
a  while,  but  thanks  to  the  motion 
picture  industry,  life  was  made  worth 
living  and  my  aching  and  longing 
heart  forever  cured. 

Alderwin  Jordan 


.{(to  PRIZES  01    I    {TON'S  HIGHLAND  VELLUM 


Win 


one  <>l  i Ii <* in  in  Emily  Post's 
'Week-End  Invitation' 
Letter  Writing  Contest 


The  week-end  «>r  short  \i-it  which  intimate  friends  paj  one  another 
i-  one  of  the  nm-i  delightful  <>l  .ill  the  social  contacts  <>l  s  family.    \n<l 

tlif    letter   written   can    !><•    as   charming    and    thoughtful    as    tin-    writer 

herself.  Imagine  your  house  in  the  country.  [maginc  the  people  whom 
you  would  moat  like  to  haTe  there.  Then  write  the  -ort  of  letter  you 

would  want  to  send  to  them.  It  may  lie  to  a  friend  of  your  daughter. 
It  may  lie  to  married  friends  in  your  set.  It  may  he  for  a  house  party 
for  your  -on  home  from  college  for  the  holidays.  I  here  are  countless 
possible  situations.  So.  take  your  pen  in  hand,  and  enter  Emily  Poet's 
"\\  eek-End  Invitation"  Letter  W  riting  Contest.  ^  ou  may  win  $1000.00. 
Head  the  rides  helow.  \\  ateh  next  month  for  another  contest;  the 
subjeel  will  he  announced  in  the  March  issue  of  this  magazine. 

RULES  OF  THE  CONTEST 


Dikim;  February,  March  and  April, 
Katun,  Crane  &  Pike  Co.  will  offer 
prizes  for  a  particular  kind  of  letter. 
For  February  they  will  award  prizes  in 
the  Emily  Post  "Week-End  Invitation*' 
Letter  Writing  Contest  as  follow-:  first 
prize,  $150;  second  prize,  $50;  third 
prize.  >2~>;  five  fourth  prize-.  >  I  ">  eaeh; 
ti\e  fifth  prizes,  $10  each;  ten  sixth 
prizes,  $5  each;  100  seventh  prize-,  one 
l»ox   of    Eaton's   Highland    \  elluni   each. 

\n  additional  grand  prize  of  $850 
will  lie  offered  for  the  best  letter  writ- 
ten during  the  entire  serie-.  making  it 
possible  for  some  one  to  win   *  11100.00! 

Ml  fitter-  in  the  "Week-End  Imita- 
tion"   Letter    Writing    i.nntc-t    mu-t    be 


EATON'S 


in  the  mail-  hy  midnight  of  February 
28,  1931.  Each  letter  must  he  addressed 
to  Contest  Editor,  Eaton,  Crane  &  I'ik>- 
Co.,Pittsfielcl.  Ma--..and  marked  plainly 
"Week-End  limitation"  Letter  Writing 
Contest.  ^  "U  ma\  write  a-  many  letters 
,i-  inn  wi-li.  You  may  enter  every  Con- 
test. Tliere  will  be  three  con-ecuti\e 
monthly  contests  in  all. 

Yolft  full  name  and  address  mu-t  ap- 
pear on  the  re\er-e  side  of  the  -heel  or 
at  the  bottom  of  the  last  page.  Letters 
may  lie  typed  or  in  longhand.  There  i- 
iiii  limit   lo  the   length   of  the   letter-. 

The  winner-  will  he  announced  in  the 

October  issue  of  ihi-  magazine.   In  ease 

of  a  lie  for  any  award,  the  full  amount 
of  the  award  will  fie  gi\en  to 
each     of    the    tying     contestants. 

The  letters  w  ill  fie  jndged  solely 

on  wliat  >  <  >  ii  -ay.  No  letter-  will 
fi.-  returned. 

Final  judge-:  Emily  Fo-t.  au- 
thority  on    social    stage;    Mice 

Duer  Miller,  author  of  "Creep 
I-le"  and  other  novel-  and  -to- 
rie-:  and  John  Held.  Jr_  humor- 
i-t  and  arti-l. 


Eaton's     Highland    Linen     and 

Eaton's  Highland  I  rllum  art* 
especially  ice//  adapted  In  the 
informal  note  of  the  tceek-end 
invitation.  They  bespeak  qual- 
ity ami  Style  anil  rornr  in  white 
and  an  interesting  range  of  pep- 
trl  tints.    From  50  OSSItS  /"   v 

wherever  good  ttetionery  i*  *old. 
Eaton,  Crane  <x-  Pike  Co.,  Pitts- 
field,  Mass. 


TTTGII  L  V  \  D    VELLI   M 
HIGHLAND    LINEN 


When  you  wrirr  -o  ■  isc  me.i:ion  ritOTOrt. AY  MAGAZINE. 


120  Tiiotoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 

NAME    THESE 
MOVIE  EYES! 


They're  haxrl  and  belong  to  a  beautiful  First 
National  Pictures  star  who  onee  adorned  Zieg- 
1.1.1m  Htage  shows.  She's  5  ft.*  5  in.  tall*  weighs 
112  im.uii.I-.  and  bus  blonde  hair.  Name  below* 


no  need  now  to 
have  dull  eyes 

It's  foolish  to  let  dull,  bloodshot 
eyes  mar  your  appearance  when 
an  application  or  two  of  harmless 
Murine  will  make  them  bright 
and  clear  again.  It  dissolves  the 
dust-laden  film  of  mucus  that 
cause's  eyes  to  look  dull,  and 
quickly  clears  up  any  blood- 
shot condition  resulting 
from  over-use,  late  hours, 
crying   or  outdoor   expo- 
sure. 60c  at  drug  and  de- 
partment stores.    Try   it! 

*  Dorothy  Mackaill 


3 


URINE, 


Be  a  Motion  Picture 
CAMERAMAN 


Many    Earn    $50 
to    $150    a    Week 

WORTHWHILE  positions 
open  for  motion  picture 
cameramen.  Good  pay — per- 
manent work.  We  train  yon 
through  our  Simplified  Plan. 
Previous  experience  unnecessary. 
Motion  picture  photography  is  just  one 
of  the  many  branches  of  the  motion  picture 
and  photographic  field.  Growing  by  leaps 
and  bounds,  this  uncrowded  industry  offers 
many  opportunities  for  motion  picture 
projectionists,  "still"  photographers  or 
photo-finishers.  Check  branch  of  photog- 
raphy you're  interested  in  and  send  coupon 
today  for  FREE  book  which  gives  full 
details. 
New   York    Institute   of    Photography 

Dept.  AB-1246         10  W.  33rd  St.         New  York  City 

■  New  York  Institute  of  Photoftraphy 
Dept.  AB-1246,  10  W.  33rdSt.,  New  York  City  ■ 
■  Without  cost  or  obligation  send  me  your  FREE  ■ 
book  and  details  about  I 

If     )  Motion  Picture  Photography  or  (     )  Projection  m 
(     )  ••Still"  Photography  or  (     )  Photo-Flnlshing       I 


Name 

Address 

City state 


mission!  Robert  Vines,  Josephine  Dunn  and 
Richard  Tucker  head  the  support.  Just  a  nice 
little  talkie. 


TWO  WORLDS— British  International 

DROBABLY  the  best  of  the  recent  English 
*-  pictures  to  be  seen  on  this  side — an  earnest, 
I  dramatic  story  in  inter-racial  clashes  in 
a  border  village  in  the  early  days  of  the  Great 
War.  It  was  directed  by  A.  E.  Du  Pont, 
creator  of  the  famous  "  Variety,"  and  he  knows 
his  cinema.  The  story  is  good,  the  direction 
heady.  Its  names  mean  nothing  to  us  yet. 
Norah  Baring,  John  Longderi,  and  others. 


FAST  AND  LOOSE— Paramount 


The 

ttle 


"K  X.\DK  from  an  Avery  Hopgood  play,  "' 
■'■''-'•Best  People,"  this  is  a  pleasant  li 
comedy.  The  fable  goes  that  the  little  rich  girl 
falls  in  love  with  the  working  man.  It  all  goes 
to  show  that  the  best  people  aren't  always  the 
best  people,  if  you  follow  us.  Miriam  Hopkins, 
pretty  Georgia  blonde  from  the  stage,  debuts 
successfully  as  the  girl.  Carole  Lombard, 
Charles  Starrett,  Prank  Morgan  help  out  well. 

FOR  THE  LOVE  O'  LIL— Columbia 

"NTAUGHTY  in  a  very  nice  way,  this  comedy 
*■  ™  from  the  Liberty  Magazine  cover  story.  A 
rich  young  man  continually  butts  into  the  mar- 
ried life  of  a  nice  young  couple — and  there's 
trouble,  spiced  with  plenty  laughs.  Jack  Mul- 
hall  is  excellent  as  the  interfering  young  sport, 
and  in  the  cast  are  Elliott  Nugent,  Sally  Starr, 
Margaret  Livingston  and  others.  An  amusing, 
if  unimportant,  little  picture. 

THE HATESHIP— British  International 

HPHE  British  have  made  a  fairly  gripping 
-*■  melodrama  of  the  old  school  here — a  mys- 
tery thriller  on  board  a  yacht.  It  maintains 
its  suspense  well,  and  moves  at  a  leisurely,  well- 
bred  pace  right  through  to  the  finish.  Techni- 
cally, it  doesn't  stand  up— Britain  must  still  go 
to  grade  school  in  Hollywood,  in  the  matter  of 
sound.  Jameson  Thomas,  now  in  America,  is 
in  the  cast. 


THE  DAWN  TRAIL— Columbia 

"DUCK  JONES  is  the  star  of  this  little  Western 
■'-'and  his  leading  lady  is  none  other  than  our 
beautiful  Miriam  Seegar.  There  is  consider- 
able suspense  built  up  in  a  fight  between  the 
sheep  herders  and  the  cattlemen.  Charles 
Morton  is  the  villain.  Buck's  riding  is  worth 
the  price  of  admission,  any  day,  but  there  is 
enough  to  please  all  who  like  Westerns. 


PHANTOM  OF  THE  DESERT— 
Syndicate 


TU'K  PERK  IX  and  his  beautiful  horse  "Star- 
J  light"  do  another  true-to-type  Western.  I'er- 
rin  is  the  handsome  hero.  Eva  Novak  is  a  per- 
fect heroine,  and  everything  comes  out  well  in 
the  end.  There's  a  dastardly  villain  of  course, 
who  gets  his  just  deserts  just  before  the  hero 
gets  the  girl.  Plenty  of  good  riding  and  noisy 
cartridgi  - 

UNDER  MONTANA  SKIES— 
Tiffany  Productions 

75  R  ETTY  much  of  a  total  debit,  except  for 
*-  some  amusing  work  by  Slim  Summerville, 
now  cashing  in  after  many  slim  (no  pun)  years. 
It's  all  about  a  stranded  show  girl — and  the 
talkies  have  stranded  'em  for  three  years. 
Others  in  the  cast  are  Kenneth  Harlan,  Doro- 
thy Gulliver  and  Ethel  Wales.  But  Slim  is 
really  good.    Happy  times.  Slim  old  boy! 


WILD  MEN  OF  KALIHARI— 
Travel  Film 


M'I'D 


LDLY    interesting    African    exploration 

■•picture,  without  faking.  Wild  men  aren't 
very  wild,  though.  In  addition  to  the  custom- 
ary animal  and  native-life  shots,  there's  one 
sure-fire  laugh  in  the  film.  It  comes  when  the 
camera  catches  a  group  of  Kalihari  picka- 
ninnies learning  to  use  bow  and  arrow.  The 
littlest  one — can't  be  more'n  fifteen  months 
old! — is  destined  to  be  another  Stepin  Fetchit! 

THE  YELLOW  MASK— 
British  International 


A  N  attempt,  by  our  British  cousins,  to  mix 
■"■musk,  comedy  and  melodrama.  It  doesn't 
come  off.  Edgar  Wallace,  the  word-mill,  wrote 
the  story — and  even  though  the  burlesque  note 
is  obvious  throughout,  the  whole  matter  is 
forced.  Not  even  that  sterling  little  trouper, 
Lupino  Lane,  can  do  much  with  his  comedy. 
Some  pleasant  singing,  but  let's  forget  "The 
Yellow  Mask." 

SOUS  LES  TOITS  DE  PARIS— 
Tobis 

"DVEN  if  your  French  is  limited,  you'll  enjoy 
-'—'this,  because  it  relies  more  upon  pantomime 
than  dialogue,  which  is  in  French.  Director 
Clair  has  caught  the  picturesque  Parisian  slum 
atmosphere.  Albert  Prejean,  reminding  one  of 
Chevalier,  and  Pola  Illery,  who  manages  to  say 
a  lot  with  a  look,  get  acting  honors.  Incon- 
sequential, slow  story,  but  you'll  be  humming 
two  of  the  songs. 


Goofy  Genius 


COXTDCUED  FROM  PAGE  3  1 


the  inventor  stated  that  plain  film  could  be  run 
through  his  machine  and  it  would  appear  on 
the  screen  in  life-like  colors. 

"See,"  he  said,  pointing  to  a  pair  of  ordinary 
compound  filters,  "those  do  the  trick." 

AND  all  he  had  was  a  green  lens  in  one  and 
a  red  lens  in  the  other.  He  would  shut  off 
the  red  lens  and  the  picture  would  show  green, 
and  he  would  shut  off  the  green  and  the  picture 
would  show  red. 

The  very  same  effect  could  be  produced  by 
holding  a  piece  of  colored  gelatin  in  front  of 
any  white  lens. 

Another  inventor  showed  up  at  the  same 
plant  with  what  he  said  was  a  complete  solu- 
tion of  all  the  problems  of  motion  picture  color 
photography. 

"You  take  your  black  and  white  print,"  he 
said,  "and  draw  lines  on  it — twelve  hundred  to 


the  inch.  Then  you  take  an  unexposed  film  and 
draw  twelve  hundred  lines  to  the  inch,"  etc., 
etc.  There  were  just  a  few  things  wrong  with  this 
invention.  First  it  would  be  impossible  to 
paste  one  film  on  another;  second,  third,  and 
fourth,  the  inventor  had  never  made  one  of 
these  films,  or  attempted  to  make  one,  and 
couldn't  be  convinced  that  it  wasn't  a  grand 
idea. 

A  MORE  naive  soul,  with  a  reverence  for 
the  hallowed  names  of  the  past,  walked 
into  the  Technicolor  plant  in  Hollywood  one 
day  and  offered  three  very  fine  paint  brushes 
which  he  alleged  once  belonged  to  Van  Dyck, 
the  celebrated  Flemish  painter  of  the  seven- 
teenth century. 

He  thought  these  would  solve  all  the  prob- 
lems of  tinting  color  pictures! 

One  inventor  received  a  patent  on  what  is 


Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Magazini  pot  i    n    \kY,  1931 


1  2  I 


[bed  i"  the  Pat»  nl  I 

;i|i|>.ir.itus    whereby    motion    |m  tun       may    I"' 

filmed  and  reproaw  '-'I  in  mm  h  •> 
furnish  ■  prompting  film  coordinated  with  the 
|in  tun  -..  tli.ti  .in  orator  m.iv  repeal  tli'  words 
coordinate  with  the  |>i<  ture  reprodw  tion 

All  of  \.s hit  h  meani  tint  .i  man, 
men  and  women,  wire  t,,  be  concealed  behind 

the    -i  run    and    rr.ul    otf    the   (UalogUC   on    the 

"prompting  film." 

The  uninterrupted  .»  tion  of  the  talkies, 
when  subtitles  and  captioni  no  longer  break 
into  tin  continuity  of  tin-  story,  was  slso  a 

much  sought  after  idea  ami  there  were  numer- 
ous patent!  granted  for  schemes  to  do  amy 

with  subtitles  am!  introdiuc  dialogue. 

PR  \(  I 'K'M.l.V  all  of  thete  were  for  the 
silent  hlms,  and  take  the  form  of  words 
printed  right  on  the  film,  M  that  when  the  soft- 
hero  looked  down  sweetly  on  the  Only 
Girl  and  whispered  "I  love  you."  it  suddenly 
appeared  beside  him.  neatly  confined  in  one  of 
"balloons"  cartoonists  use  when  their 
charai  ten  speak. 

even   a  device  patented   that 

Strapped  onto  the  side  of  the  actor's  head — the 
side  turned  away  from  the  camera.  It  con- 
tained a  strip  of  transparent  ni.i'u  rial  on  which 
was    printed    the    sentiment    to   he   e\pr> 

I  up  like  those  steel  tape  measures  sur- 
veyors use  When  the  time  came  to  say  "I 
.mi."  the  actor  pressed  a  hull)  concealed 
in  his  [wicket,  the  sentiment  shot  out  on  a  line 
with  his  mouth,  and  was  photographed  along 
with  the  action.  The  actor  then  released  the 
bulb  and  the  sentiment  recoiled  into  its  casing. 

One  fellow  was  so  anxious' to  get  realistic 
effects  that  he  even  suggested  printing  on  the 
film  words  denoting  the  sound  made  by  falling 
liiently,  when  a  vase  fell  clown 
and  went  boom,  *'  Boom!"  tidily  printed  beside 
the  broken  vase,  graphically  denoted  it.  I.ikc- 
ting-a  ling  "  meant  the  telephone  or  door 
hell  was  ringing. 

Innumerable  attempts  have  been  made  to 
capture  the  "third  dimension''  in  moving 
pictures — the  depth  and  true  perspective  that 
objects  and  persons  in  real  life  actually  have, 
and  one  of  these  ideas  involved  the  use  of 
spectacles  made  of  gelatin  and  cardboard.  One 
lens  was  green  and  the  other  red,  and  the  film 
was  also  produced  in  red  and  green. 

The  use  of  these  spectacles  in  looking  at  the 
picture  produced  something  of  the  effect  de- 
sired, but  it  was  so  hard  on  the  eyes  of  the  audi- 
ence, and  so  complicated  a  procedure  to  keep 
equipping  movie-goers  with  spectacles  that  the 
idea  was  abandoned  and  relegated  to  the  limbo 
of  goofy  ideas. 

Another  inventor  had  a  great  idea  for  cooling 
theaters — use  a  screen  made  of  ice!  Another 
producer  had  an  idea  that  a  complete  story 
could  be  told  with  hands  only,  and  made  a  film 
showing  nothing  but  hands.  He  did  the  same 
thing  with  feet.  The  films  were  novel,  but 
unsuccessful. 

And  while  talking  of  feet,  think  of  poor  Ed 
Wynn's.  In  one  of  the  Perfect  Fool's  pictures, 
his  director  wanted  to  capture  the  illusion  of 
Wynn  running  so  fast  that  his  feet  smoked,  and 
put  acid  on  Wynn's  shoes. 

THEY  smoked  all  right.  But  too  realisti- 
cally. The  acid  practically  burned  the  soles 
off  Wynn's  smoldering  extremities! 

And  Von  Stroheim.  to  realistically  portray  a 
hailstorm,  once  bought  up  all  the  pearl  tapioca 
in   Los   A-  n   Francisco,   Seattle  and 

Denver,  but  when  the  scene  was  filmed  it 
looked  just  like  rain. 

Goofy  ideas — all  of  'em — and  almost  all  of 
them  impractical.  Yet.  there  are  just  as  many- 
successful  goofy  ideas  to  balance  the  ledger. 

Sound,  a  super-eugenic  baby,  in  that  it  has 
no  mama,  but  more  daddies  than  the  entire 
Follies  chorus,  crackled,  yowled  and  hissed  its 
way  into  attention  after  many  years  of  scorn- 
ful skepticism.  It  was  looked  upon  as  the  goofy 
child  of  a  goofy  parent — or  rather  a  flock  of 
goofy  parents. 


.J Here  /s  not /una   so  captwatma 
as  so/t.  tiilbu.  allurina  hair. 


Your  Hair  Appears 
Twice  as  Beautiful 

when  shampooed  this  way. 

Why  soft,  silkv  hair,  s|>arkliii»;  v»itli  lilV.  gloss  and 
lustre — is  unobtainable  by  ordinary  «  ashing. 


SOFT,  lovely,  alluring  hair  has  always 
been   I RRESISTI BLE. 
Fortunately,  beautiful  hair  depends, 
almost  entirely,  upon  the  way  you  sham- 
poo it. 

A  thin,  oily  film,  or  coating,  is  constantly 
forming  on  the  hair.  If  allowed  t<>  remain, 
it  c itches  the  dust  and  dirt — hides  the  life 
and  lustre — and  the  hair  then  "becomes  dull 
and  unattractive. 

Only  thorough  shampooing  will  remove 
this  film  and  let  the  sparkle  and  the  rich, 
natural  color  tones  of  the 
hair  show. 

Washing  with  ordinary 
soap  fails  to  satisfactorily 
remove  this  film,  because 
—  it  does  not  cleanse  the 
hair  properly. 

Besides — the  hair  can- 
not stand  the  harsh  effect 
of  ordinary'  soaps. 

The  free  alkali  in  ordi- 
nary soaps,  soon  dries  the 
scalp,  makes  the  hair  brit- 
tle and  ruins  it. 

That  is  why  women, 
by  the  thousands,  who 
value   beautiful  hair,   use 


Mulaified  Cocoanut  Oil  Shampoo.  It  cleans 
so  thoroughly:  is  so  mild  and  so  pure,  that  it 
cannot  possibly  injure,  no  matter  how  often 
you  use  it. 

Two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  Mulsified 
in  a  glass  or  pitcher  with  a  little  warm  water 
added,  makes  an  abundance  of  .  .  .  soft, 
rich,  creamy  lather  .  .  .  which  cleanses 
thoroughly  and  rinses  out  easily,  removing 
with  it  every  particle  of  dust,  dirt  and 
dandruff. 

You  will  notice  the  difference  in  your 
hair  the  very  I  irst  time 
you  use  Mulsified.  for  it 
will  feel  so  delightfully 
clean, and  be  so  soft. silky, 
and  fresh-looking. 

Try  a  ''Mulsified 
Shampoo"  and  see  how 
your  hair  will  sparkle  — 
with  new  life,  gloss  and 
lustre. 

See  how  easy  it  will  be  to 
manage  and  how  lovely  and 
alluring  your  hair  will  look. 

You  can  get  Mulsified 
Cocoanut  Oil  Shampoo  at 
any  drug  store  or  toilet 
goods  counter  —  anywhere 
in  the  world.  ■ 


MULSIFIED  COCOAXTT  OIL  SHAMPOO 


When  you  write  to  idwrtlsers  ple*se  mention  rUOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


122 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


A  Way  to  Make 

Rugs  Last  Longer 

NEGLECTED  grease  spots  are  hard  on 
rugs  because  they  attract  dirt  and  grit 
which  grinds  in  and  destroys  the  fabric. 
Remove  spots  immediately  with  Energine. 
It's  easy  and  sure.  Just  rub  gently  with  an 
Energine-moistened  cloth.  Spots  disappear 
like  magic  and  the  rug  looks  like  new. 

Energine  cleans  and  rejuvenates  the  finest 
rugs  without  injury  —  makes  them  last 
longer.  Dries  instantly,  leaves  no  odor 
and  no  regrets. 

Energine  is  fine,  too,  for  removing  grease 
and  dirt  spots  from  suits,  dresses,  coats, 
hats,  gloves,  ties,  shoes,  etc.  Just  follow 
the  simple  directions  on 
the  label.  A  little  goes  a 
long  way.  Get  the  Ener- 
gine habit — it  pays!  Large 
can  35c.  All  druggists. 

Millions  Of  Cans 
Sold  Yearly 


LEAVES    NO  ODOR 

ENERGINE 

THE  PERFECT  CLEANING  FLUID 


PEETTY  ANKLES  $5.^ 

and   CALVT/iST      pe*pa£* 

T\R.    WALTER'S    Special    extra 
-L-'  strons  Ankle  Bands  of  live  flesh 
colored  Para  Rubber  will  support 
and  shape  the  ankle  and  calf  while 
reducing  them.  Made  of  pure  Para 
rubber.  They  fit  like  a  glove.  Can  be 
wornunderany  kind  of  hose.  Relieves 
swelling  and   varicose   veins.    You 
can  note  the  difference  in  shape  of 
ankle  at  once.     Can  be  worn  at 
night  and  reduce  while  you  sleep, 
or  during  the  day  deriving  the  ex- 
tra benefit  of  the  support. 

Write  for  Dr.  Walter'e  Special 
Ankle    Bands  for  $3. 76.  1'ay  by 
check  or  money  order  (no  caahj  or 
pay  postman. 

Send  Ankle  and  Calf  measure  to 

DR.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER 
389  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 


Earn  extra  money  at  home  taking 
orders  for  attractive  new  line  of 
playing  cards.  Your  friends  and 
others  will  be  glad  to  buy  when 
tbey  me*  our  low  prlcoa. 


Playing  Cards 


FREE  Sample  Outfit 


You  make  very  liberal  commtutoni 
without  Investing  one  cent.  Write 
for  free  Bam  pie  cards  and  full  In- 
formation. No  obligation. 

CHICAGO  PLAYING  CARD  COMPANY 
1039-1047  W.  35th  St..  Dapt. 3182 ,  Chicago.  Ill 


Money  in 

SpareTime 


Eugene  A.  l.auste,  who  was  among  the  early 
sound  pioneers  and  today  is  recognized  for  his 
work  in  connection  with  talking  pictures,  was 
turned  away  from  a  number  of  motion  picture 
ex©  utive  ullices  without  ever  getting  near  the 
producers. 

T— IE  got  as  far  as  an  appointment  with  Carl 
■*  -*-Laemmle,  but  when  Laemmle  found  out 
what  he  wanted,  dismissed  him  with  the  curt 
advice  to  fit  up  his  own  theater  and  demon- 
strate his  device  himself. 

Still,  one  critic  says  Lauste's  device  of  1916 
got  results  as  good  as  the  sound  pictures  in 
1925! 

Then  various  scenic  and  lighting  effects, 
laughed  down  at  the  time,  have  become  estab- 
lished successes. 

D.  W.  Griffith  holds  patents  on  a  trick  stage 
which  permits  the  use  of  miniature  sets,  there- 
by cutting  down  some  of  the  tremendous  cost 
of  production. 

Similar  stunts  making  use  of  miniature  and 
painted  backgrounds  are  widely  employed  in 
Hollywood  today. 

One  is  called  the  Ullman  process,  and  an- 
other the  Dunning  process.  All,  including  Mr. 
Griffith's,  require  the  use  of  deceptive  trick 
photography. 

Some  of  moviedom's  most  eminent  and  re- 
spected directors  were  once  regarded  with 
humorous  skepticism  as  goofs  and  nuts. 

BOB  FLORE Y  is  a  notable  example.  One  of 
his  first  ventures  cost  only  S97  to  produce, 
and  involved  the  use  of  scenery  painted  on 
cardboard  and  cigar  boxes.  He  was  after  the 
elusive  "third  dimension"  effect,  but  achieved 
only  a  weirdness  and  exaggeration  that  doomed 
the  picture  to  failure. 

Quite  as  freakish  was  Von  Sternberg,  hailed 
today  as  one  of  the  industry's  directorial 
geniuses. 

With  his  "Salvation  Hunters,"  he  shocked 
and  jarred  Hollywood  into  thinking  him  an  out 
and  out  nut. 

Even  Photoplay's  review  in  1925  said  it 
was  just  an  experiment  and  that  "Von  Stern- 


berg goes  too  far  in  taking  the  motion  out  of 
motion  pictures." 

Vet,  he  brought  a  vivid  type  of  realism  to  the 
screen,  and  is  writing  his  name  as  a  goofy 
genius  in  still  bolder  strokes  with  "Morocco," 
his  most  recent  work. 

Murnau's  "Sunrise,"  a  picture  employing 
startling  camera  and  lighting  tricks,  is  another 
example  of  genius  gone  mad,  or  what  conven- 
tionally-minded folk  considered  mad. 

It  left  its  imprint,  nevertheless,  on  movie- 
making. 

Rouben  Mamoulian,  the  Armenian,  now 
directing  Clara  Bow,  is  obsessed  with  getting 
rhythm  into  his  pictures,  and  goes  so  far  as  to 
beat  time  with  a  baton  during  the  action  of  a 
scene,  after  the  manner  of  an  orchestra  leader. 

D.  W.  Griffith,  employing  an  orchestra  to 
make  Blanche  Sweet  emotional  while  directing 
"Judith  of  Bethulia"  back  in  1914,  was  laughed 
at  and  scorned  by  his  contemporaries.  Yet, 
Leonardo  da  Vinci,  four  centuries  before, 
employed  musicians  to  play  for  Mona  Lisa 
while  she  posed  as  his  model. 

piSENSTEIX,  the  Russian,  wanted  to  cut 
■'-'out  dialogue  in  filming  "An  American 
Tragedy,"  and  subordinate  the  players  to  the 
general  theme. 

Hollywood  didn't  let  him — he  was  too  revo- 
lutionary, too  goofy. 

There  are  countless  others — Leigh  Jason, 
for  example,  using  dummy  figures  with  the 
heads  of  well  known  actors,  and  calling  them 
"Humanettes."  Benny  Rubin  has  appeared 
in  a  number  of  them,  and  the  idea  seems  to  be 
going  over. 

CO,  peering  at  these  goofy  geniuses  and  their 
^queer  sounding  ideas  and  inventions,  one  has 
a  feeling  of  just  having  concluded  a  tour  of  a 
mad  house,  peopled  by  the  weird  characters  of 
some  exotic  author's  fantastic  mind. 

But  they're  real — every  one  of  them — and 
with  all  the  stubbornness  of  us  humans,  these 
goofs  of  today  have  a  way  of  riding  out  of  the 
storms  of  ridicule  and  disappointment  and 
coming  back  as  the  geniuses  of  tomorrow. 


Columnist  turns  actor.  Walter  Winchell,  widely  known  Broadway  reporter 

and  gossiper,  as  he  appears  in  his  Vitaphone  comedy  short,  "The  Bard  of 

Broadway."   With  him,  as  leading  lady,  is  Madge  Evans.   Remember  her 

as  one  of  the  most  beautiful  child  actresses  some  years  back? 


Ever;  advertisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  oiarantecd. 


PiioTuiM.w  M\(.\/im   poa  FmtuAxy,  ivj l 


Hollywood's 
Hundred 

Million  Dollar  Kid 


•  .  IIM  I  i>  I  BOM  PAO] 

"It'i  .1  tol  of  hooej       ii    thes  said  In  hla 

direi  I  m. inner     "  1 1  VUn'l  <>ur  fault  Jmu  -  died. 

I  don't  know  why  Al  Wilson  bailed  out  of  thai 
plane,   and   nobody   else   do         ["hat   plane 
could  have  been  spun,     rhat  was  proved     <>i 
l  don't  blame  Al 

••  What  about  the  other  men  who  di 

••Only  two  other  pilots  died—]  don't  know 

why  It's  been  charged  that  four  were  lulled. 

And  the  other  two  didn't  die  during  the  making 

of  the  picture  at  .ill!    They  died  while  trans- 

og  planes— their  regular  job. 

"You  can't  hire  seventy-five  pilots  for  two 
vears  without  expecting  to  have  some  of  'em 
injured  or  bumped  off.  Even  air  transport 
lines  can't  expe<  t  that  I " 

The  fourth  man  whose  death  has  been  at 
tributed  to  "  Hell's  Angels,"  incidentally,  was 
■ii  Skeene,  a  photographer  with  a  weak 
heart  He  might  have  died  filming  ,i  love  scene 
iii  "Daddy  Long  Legs"  or  anything  else,  is 
Hughes'  contention. 

AS  for  the  four  millions  he  spent  on  "Hell's 
Angels."    Hughes   i>   delighted    that    it's 
coming  back  to  him. 

"We'll  make  millions  on  it."  he  said. 

"Why  was  it  advertised  a^  s  Bex  picture?'' 
he  was  aaked.    He  ^ot  a  bit  peeved  again. 

"It   wasn't,"  he  >aiil.     "It  doesn't   have  to 

depend  on  sex  to  put  it  over.  It  will  get  over 
on  its  air  sequent 

"What  about  the  Jean  Harlow  scenes?" 
"I  didn't  try  to  make  it  sew,"  he  said.  "I 
tried  to  make  it  realistic!"  He  rang  lor  his 
secretary  and  u'ot  some  reports  on  "sew"  ad- 
vertising of  other  films  by  other  companies. 
"We're  not  advertising  like  that,"  he  said. 

Hut  in  Los  Angeles  and  Hollywood  papers 

then  did  appear  ads  for  "Hell's  Angels    that 

showed  Jean   Harlow  in  her  most  Harlowish 

from    the    picture — and    words    of    se\ 

appeal   in   the   ad.     "What   about   them?" 

IIu  rhes  was  asked. 

1  >h.  in  Hollywood,  that  was."  he  sneered. 
"Yes,  in  Hollywood  they  did  sexy 

advertising.    Hut  that  was  just  for  Hollywood 
appeal     Hollywood  is  the  sexiest  community  in 
America,  everybody  knows.   Hut  no  place  i 
"  Ml  right— what  about  'Queer  Peopli 
'  Well,  what  about  it?"  he  wanted  to  know. 
"  You  going  to  make  it?" 
"  I  didn't  buy  it  for  fun,"  he  said. 
"You  coin:;  to  stick  to  the  book?"     The 
interviewer    remembered    about    one    famous 
personality  who.  after  reading  "Queer  People," 
cried  all  ni^ht  because  she  recognized  herself  in 
one  of  the  characters.  She's  a  friend  of  Hughes. 
Other  acquaintances  of  Hughes  and  BQlie  Dove 
ir.  thinly  disguised,  in  the  book. 
"I  didn't  buy  it  to  be  offensive,"  Hughes 
finally   said,   after   thinking   it   all   over.     "  I 
bought   it  because  it  was  a  pood  story,  not 
>e  of  what  it  said  about  my  friends  in 
Hollywood.      The  picture  I   make  of  it  won't 
olTend  people.    I'm  going  to  make  it  the  story 
of  a  new-;  reporter  who  comes  to  Hollywood. 
I'll  u~  the  stuff  in  the  book,  naturally. 

"T  DI  DX'T  buy  it  because  of  any  reference  in 
-1-  it  to  anybody  I  know.  And  in  thepicture,  I 

won't  present  any  character  unfavorably  in 
such  a  manner  that  thev  can  be  recognized  in 
real  life. 

"However" — he  laughed  here — "  I'll  have  to 
be  careful  if  I  let  Lewis  Milestone  direct  it. 
Milestone  dislikes  so  many  people  in  Holly- 
wood that  I'll  have  to  watch  him." 

Milestone,  who  achieved  undying  fame  with 
"All  Quiet,"  is  under  contract  to  Huches.  He 
will  direct  "The  Front  Page,"  which  will  be 
made    before    "Queer    People."      After    that, 


c 


.  2  J 


lonely  complexions 


turn 


and  clear 


when  stimulated 
with 

VIIVATONE 


FAIR  and  clearer  is  the  forecast  for 
r-kins  kept  in  daily  condition  by 
\  i\.tiimi\  This  delightful  amber  liquid 
tonic  and  >kin  freshener  is  the  newest 
member  of  a  time-honored  cosmetic 
family;  a  popular  member,  too,  and  a 
credit  to  the  Daggett  &  Ramsdell  name. 

Tired-looking  complexions  respond  in 
a  twinkling  to  Vivatone's  bri.-k  stimu- 
lation. Skins  clouded  by  lack  of  proper 
care  lose  their  grav  masks  with 
Vivatone'a  quick  cleansing  action.  It 
dries  instantly  —  reducing  large  pores, 
firming  the  face,  removing  cream  left  on 
the  skin  after  a  massage,  preventing  ex- 
cessive oiliness.  \  ivatone  is  applied  with 
absorbenl  cotton  which  has  first  been 
dipped  in  cold  water  and  squeezed  dry. 

To  feel  the  tingle  of  Vivatone  on 
\our  face  just  once  will  convert  you  to 
this  refreshant  permanently.  It  pos- 
es the  delicacy  of  cologne  water; 
is  one  of  those  delightful  refinements 
of  the  toilette  that  make  a  w  oman  look 
and  feel  well-groomed.  In  it~  smart 
container,  \  ivatone  is  ornamental  a-  a 
perfume  bottle  on  your  d  Me. 

^  ivatone  i-  for  Bale  in  all  leading  druc 
and  department  stores  at  a  price  that 
i-  easily  within  the  reach  of  the  modern 


woman's  budget.  And  there  is  no  better 
product  at  any  price.  Send  the  coupon 
below  for  a  generous  sized  free  sample. 


SIM>    I  OK    THIS    I  Ki:i:    TlilAI,    OFFER 

I»A«;«.FTT  &   It  .\>lsl»l  I  I  .   2  PAIIK  AVF.ME.  NEW  VOIIK  i  ITV 

Please  send  me  FREE  one  of  your  trial  size  bottles  of  Vivatone. 
Name 


Street 
City.. 


.State. 


When  you  write  to  »dTerti-«*rs  please  mention  rnOTOPI.AT  MAGAZINE. 


I24 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


How  Much  Should  a  Woman 
Stand  from  the  Man  She  Loves? 


JUST  how  much  ill-temper,  tight-fistedness  and 
humiliation  should  a  woman  stand  from  the 
man  she  loves  ? 

Dr.  George  A.  Dorsey,  the  eminent  scientist  who 
told  us  "Why  We  Behave  Like  Human  Beings," 
says  in  February  Cosmopolitan  that  if  young  men 
and  women  put  as  much  intelligence  into  choos- 
ing a  mate  as  they  do  into  choosing  a  college  or 
a  motor  car  there  would  be  less  martyrdom  in 
marriage  and  fewer  divorces. 

In  February  Cosmopolitan,  Louis  Bromfield,  brilliant  novel- 
ist, will  grip  you  with  his  complete  story  of  a  man's  life 
which  developed  into  "Tabloid  News."  You  will  be  en- 
thralled too  by  W.  Somerset  Maugham's  story  of  thwarted 
love,  "Virtue."  Also  there  are  Theodore  Dreiser,  Sinclair 
Lewis,P.G.Wodehouse,and  manyotherwriters  as  brilliant. 

Heggst's  kternationd 

(gsmopolitan 

February  Just  Out 
A  CLASS  MAGAZINE  WITH  1,700,000  CIRCULATION 


Hughes  said,  he  will  decide  whether  or  not  he 
will  let  Milestone  make  "Queer  People." 
"Will  you  yourself  ever  direct  again?" 
"No  siree,"  he  laughed.    "  'Hell's  Angels' 
was  enough!" 

HE'S  a  queer  lad,  this  Hughes.    Tall  like  a 
teleirraiih    rw>st — snmc    six    feet     two.    anrl 

thin! 


telegraph  post — some  six  feet,  two,  and 


With  all  his  big  financial  deals,  he  still  looks, 
talks  and  acts  like  a  bashful  schoolboy. 

And  yet,  he's  the  lad  about  whom  the  wildest 
million-dollar  rumors  fly.  He  was  reported 
buying  control  of  United  Artists.  But  he 
changed  his  mind.  He  was  also  reported  to  be 
buying  Warner  Brothers'  studio  in  Hollywood. 
"That's  hooey,"  he  said.  But  he  does  tell  you, 
very  frankly,  that  he's  got  big  deals  pending 
that  will  probably  raise  quite  a  bit  of  fuss  in 
moviedom.  With  a  hundred  million,  one  can 
buy  a  lot  of  things  besides  aeroplanes  and 
automobiles. 

How  did  this  lad  ever  get  into  movies? 

"Well — I  don't  know  whether  you  can 
understand — "  he  begins.  He  gropes  for  words. 

"You  sec — my  father  founded  that  oil  tool 
business." 

It's  the  biggest  of  its  kind.  Its  return  is 
several  millions  a  year  in  profits. 

Hughes  has  no  hand  whatsoever  in  running 
it,  although  he's  sole  owner,  by  his  father's 
will! 

"That's  my  father's  business.  If  I'd  take 
over  its  management,  no  matter  what  I'd  do, 
it'd  still  be  my  father's.  I  wanted  to  do  some- 
thing myself — on  my  own." 

CO  he  left  the  running  of  the  tool  works  in  the 
^hands  of  men  who  have  been  doing  it  so  well 
for  years.  A  few  years  ago,  not  knowing  just 
what  he  wanted  "to  do  for  himself,  on  his  own," 
he  came  out  to  Hollywood  on  a  pleasure  trip. 
He  encountered  Marshall  Neilan,  a  friend  of 
his  father's. 

"Neilan  was  ha%-ing  some  trouble  on  a  deal 
he  was  in,"  said  Hughes,  "and  he  asked  me  why 
I  didn't  come  in  on  it." 

So  Hughes  did — Hughes  and  some  of  his 
millions  of  dollars.  They  made  a  picture.  It 
made  money.  "This,"  thought  the  young 
millionaire,  "  is  a  cinch  and  it's  fun.  I'll  make  a 
picture,  too,  myself." 

So  he  did. 

And  the  strangest  part  of  it  all  is  that  he's 
making  money  at  it! 


You  remember  Theda  Bara,  first  of 
the  great  vamps  of  motion  pictures, 
and  the  ace  in  her  field  in  her  day. 
Well,  this  isn't  Theda.  It's  her  sister 
Lori,  who  has  made  good  with  a  bang 
as  a  member  of  the  Metro-Goldwyn- 
Mayer  writing  staff.  Lori  was  in 
pictures,  too,  some  time  back 


Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Macazini    roi  Febsi  \kv,  1931 


125 


iim  I  ii  I  ko\i  PAOJ    U 

So  ili.it  night  Jimmy  Macalistcr  rented  ■> 
lord  and  took  little  Jeaaie  Rudolph  i 
dondo,  and  the)  had  uppei  at  Marley' 
dollar,  danced   at    the    Pavilion   lor  a  dime, 
and  watched  the  ocean  for  nothing. 

|.  u  bated  Redondo.  she  hated  Marley*! 
dollar  dinnen.  She  hated  the  hot,  cheap 
crowd  in  the  dime  dance  pavilion.  lim  wone 
than  Redondo  or  the  dinner  or  the  dance,  she 
hated  the  coasdouaneai  of  every  dime  and 

dollar'      It   was  like  poison.     And  Dank 

for  (ear  the  land  wai  spoiling  her  ihoeal    Hb\ 
inn  i"  be  conscknn  not  only,  thai  they  were 
>itting  on  the  beach  be< auM  Jimmy  didn't  have 
money  enough  to  >U>  anything  else,  but  thai  ii 

her  one  pair  of  shoes  u  ,h  spoiled — she  was  done 

fori 


B 


UT  tin-  ocean  rolling  away — wide  and  far, 
ma  wonderful  I  slu-  had  never  really 
watc  in. I  it  before,  plunging  against  the  break- 
water; racing  up  over  the  satin  sand,  and  the 
magnet  of  its  own  depth  drawing  it  mystei 
iouslv  back  again) 

They  -at  in  a  cool  little  cove.  Jimmy  pulled 
her  head  down  against  his  shoulder.  The  stars 
were  M  bright  and  low,  they  seemed  to  belong 
to  the  OCean  instead  Of  the  sky!     Searlet  buoy 

li^ht-.    rode    on    the    dark.      The    little    foolish 

shadows  of  long-legged  sand  pipers  scurried 
along  the  shore  running  feverishly  away  from 

every  wave  rolling  in.  then  following  after  it, 
just  as  feverishly  to  snatch  the  lost  crabs  left 
in  the  trail  of  the  tide. 

Jessie  laughed  at  them,  and  sang  a  nursery 
song  she'd  forgotten  all  about — "Called  out  a 
bird  upon  the  sand  who  thought  he  owned  the 
sea.  'Oh  serve  me  up  the  little  fish,  who  all 
belong  to  me!'  " 

Jimmy  said  maybe  they  could  go  to  The 
Bhie  Spot  for  supper  the  next  night  and  get  one 
of  the  Hollywood  hamburgers  trimmed  with 
piccalilli  and  served  in  anoiled-paperpetticoat. 
She  meant  to  say  no,  and  she  meant  to  add  that 
because  he  simply  mustn't! 

Hut  as  a  matter  of  fact  she  looked  wax- 
down  the  beach  at  the  winking  red  and  green 
lights  of  the  toboggans  at  Venice  and  said 
nothing  at  all. 

The  next  night  he  rented  the  lord  again,  and 
they  went  to  The  Blue  Spot  and  sat  at  the 
counter  and  had  aristocratic  hamburgers  and 
cherry  pie,  and  then  rode  for  hours  through  the 
starry  purple  foot-hills  and  looked  down  at  the 
mattered  lights  of  l.os  Angeles,  and  picked  out 
white  candles  of  yucca  blossoms  on  the  hills, 
and  breathed  themselves  full  of  the  fragrance 
of  orange  groves.     And  Jimmy  kissed  her. 

"You're  wonderful!"  he  said. 

AND  she  knew  she  mustn't  see  him  again. 
Simply  must  not  let  him  kiss  her  again!  And 
so,  the  next  night,  he  kissed  her  twice  instead 
of  once,  and  she  didn't  know  what  to  do,  be- 
cause she  knew  it  was  too  late  now  to  tell  him 
he  mustn't  fall  in  love.  And  so  every  night  for 
two  weeks,  she  let  him  take  her  somewhere  so 
she  would  have  a  chance  to  say  good-bye 
forever  I 

And  the  moving-picture  elect  yawned  behind 
its  hand  and  said — "A  gasp  for  Hollywood! 
Jessie  Randolph  was  going  to  get  a  picture 
magnate  and  she's  picked  out  a  stage  driver!'' 

And  then,  like  a  meteor  flashing  across  the 
sky.  came  Alec  Haskel! 

One  day  nobody  had  ever  heard  about  him. 
The  next  day  nobody  heard  about  anything 
fist.'  With  foreign  cars  and  London  clothes  and 
the  activities  of  hastily  assembled  gardeners. 
cooks,  and  various  other  household  servants 
getting  ready  the  most  imposing  estate  on  the 
most  exclusive  drive  of  Beverly  Hills:  there, 
suddenly,  was  Alec  Haskel! 

He  had  put  several  of  his  millions,  it  seemed, 
into  a  company  to  manufacture  pictures.    He 


"I    like  YEAST  IN  THIS 


DELICIOUS  MODERN  FORM" 


OX      THE      A  I  K 

l.irrv     ^Vdnr.ilai    Till) 

P.  M.  Oniral   Standard 

Timr,  thr  mrloHiuti* 
"lofl«l  ro.im.-r*"  over 
V   B.  <:.     Stationer    WJZ 

WJR  .  WHAM       klik  v 

\»  I.W         WREN  KSTP 

KWK     ■     KF\B  ah*/. 

kyw  ■  w  n»<       \»  it/  v 


£ 


How  many  times  you  have  thougnt 
"I'd  like  to  take  yeast  because  it' 
for  me,  but  I  can't  stand  the  taste  of 
it!"  You  and  perhaps  millions  of  others, 
who  feel  the  same  way,  will  de  delighted 
to  know  that  in  Yeast  Foam  Tablets 
your  one  objection  has  been  overcome. 

Yeast  Foam  Tablets  are  pure  whole 
yeast— and  nothing  but  yeast— concen- 
trated into  convenient  little  tablets: 
swallow  them  whole  or,  like  many  peo- 
ple, chew  them  as  you  would  candy. 
Everyone  likes  their  delicious  nut-like 
flavor.  Especially  treated  so  as  not  to 
form  gas  or  fermentation,  this  is  the 
only  yeast  suitable  for  the  delicate 
digestive  processes  of  infants,  children 
or  invalids. 

Since  Yeast  Foam  Tablets  are  un- 
adulterated with  drugs  or  other  ingre- 
dients, they  have  a  much  greater  Vita- 
min B  potency.  By  reason  of  purity, 
uniformity  and  potency,  this  yeast  has 
become  the  standard  for  vitamin  studies 
as  conducted  by  the  U.  S.  Government 
and  leading  American  Universities. 

Eat  Yeast  Foam  Tablets  for  skin  and 
complexion  disorders,  digestive  and 
bowel  disturbances,  underweight  and 
run  down  conditions.  10  day  bottle 
costs  50  cents  at  your  drug  store. 
Northwestern  Yeast  Company.  Chicago. 
World's  Largest  Makers  of  Dry  Yeast. 

SEND  FOR  FREE  SAMPLE 

NORTHWESTERN  YEAST  CO.,  t-i; 
1750  N.  Ashland  Ave.,  Chicago.  111. 
Please  send  free  sample  and  descriptive 
circular. 

Name 

Addrc6s 


Yeast  Foam  Tablets 


When  you  write  to  tdverti^rs  please  mention  rnOTOri.AY  MACAZIYE. 


I  26 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


'  I  have  found  that 
College  InnTomato  Juice 
Cocktails  are  not  only 
a  refreshing  drink,  but 
a  fine  health  tonic.l  keep 
several  bottles  on  ice 
and  enjoy  a  modest 
tumbler  full  with  each 
meal." 

Sincerely, 

HSArt.  (frVUA. 

UNIVERSAL  STAR 

The  renowned 
Brdcer  and 
Appetizer 


ON  SALE  AT 

DPUG     STORES 

FOUNTAIN    GPILLS 

AND  ALL 

FOOD    SHOPS 


as  u  « =■  run 


You  never  lose  Ivory 
in  your  bath  — 
it  floats  ! 

q  t)    4yioo  %      PURE 


SUBSCRIBE   FOR  PHOTOPLAY 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and  Cuba; 
$.1.00  Canada;  $3.50  to  foreign  countries.  _  Remittance  should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal 
or  express  money  order.    Use  the  convenient  Subscription  Blank  on  Page  135. 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO,  ILL. 


had  arrived,  it  seemed,  to  establish  a  picture 
company  to  startle  the  world!  He  was  thirty- 
five  or  forty,  good-looking  enough  to  be  inter- 
esting, wore  a  little  waxed  mustache  and  a 
gardenia,  knew  exactly  the  right  thing  to  do  at 
exactly  the  right  time,  laughed  charmingly, 
talked  smoothly,  danced  divinely;  was  a  little 
too  boastful,  perhaps,  but  that  was  conceded 
pardonable,  since  he  was  altogether  the  most 
spectacular  figure  Hollywood  had  yet  enter- 
tained ! 

AND  when  he  had  been  there  less  than  one 
■*»-week,  Mr.  Cecil  De  Mille  introduced  him  to 
little  Jessie  Randolph.  And,  as  fast  as  it  is 
possible  for  human  senses  to  record  the  message 
of  human  sight,  Alec  Haskel  knew  she  was 
something  he  wanted. 

He  promptly  arranged  a  supper  party  for 
two.  Jessie  with  a  flood  of  pink  rushing  into 
her  cheeks  said  it  would  be  delightful,  and  hur- 
ried home  to  put  a  new  satin  lining  in  her  even- 
ing coat  and  to  dip  her  white  chiffon  dress  and 
white  slippers  in  pink,  and  to  let  Jimmy  know 
she  wouldn't  be  able  to  see  him  that  night. 

Mr.  Haskel  was  surprised  and  quietly  amused 
at  Jessie's  quaint  idea  about  declining  to  use  a 
million  unless  she  married  it.  He  fastened  a 
diamond  and  emerald  bracelet  on  her  arm  and 
lifted  her  fingers  to  his  lips. 

"You  could  make  me  very  happy,"  he  told 
her,  watching  her  steadily,  "and  I  could  do  a 
lot  for  you." 

He  was  very  attentive,  very  generous. 

They  sat  at  the  fountain  table,  the  most  ex- 
pensive table  in  the  room.  They  were  served 
the  most  expensive  food  in  the  room.  Every- 
one watched  them.  The  waiters,  bending  over 
their  places  like  dolls  that  had  been  wound  up 
to  do  just  so,  concerned  themselves  extrava- 
gantly with  details  that  ordinarily  would  have 
been  too  insignificant  to  notice! 

And  little  Jessie  Randolph  knew  she  had 
caught  her  million! 

The  next  day  she  spent  the  lunch  hour  on 
location  with  Jimmy.  They  sat  on  the  deck  of 
an  ocean  liner  in  the  shade  of  a  eucalyptus  tree 
and  she  tried  to  be  a  little  distant,  as  though 
those  nights  in  the  starlight  had  never  been. 
She  tried  to  tell  him  about  Alec  Haskel,  tried 
to  make  him  know  what  she  meant!  It  was 
ridiculous  that  she  couldn't  state  exactly  how 
things  were — but  she  couldn't! 

In  fact  the  best  she  could  seem  to  do  in  the 
way  of  never  seeing  him  again  was  to  tell  him 
she'd  meet  him  for  supper  at  The  Blue  Spot  at 
seven. 

"This  is  the  last  time,"  she  told  herself  that 
night,  as  they  danced  for  a  dime  with  the  cheap 
crowd  at  Redondo! 

"The  last  time!"  she  told  herself  when,  at 
midnight,  they  crossed  the  flagstones  of  Canary 
Court  to  the  tiny  house  that  was  her  parlor, 
bedroom  and  bath.  He  brushed  her  hair  back 
from  her  forehead  awkwardly,  and  looked  down 
at  her  there  on  the  little  doorstep. 

"You're  wonderful!"  he  said,  his  eyes  full  of 
love  for  her. 

SHE  hadn't  intended  it  should  be  this  way  at 
all;  she  hadn't  intended  it  should  be  hard  to 
tell  him  that  this  would  be  their  last  time  to- 
gether, but  it  was  hard  to  tell  him.  In  fact  she 
didn't.'  She  just  let  him  go  away  without  know- 
ing   it— 

And  Hollywood's  little  furor  became  Jessie 
Randolph  and  Alec  Haskel.  And  the  moving 
picture  elect  lifted  its  eyebrows  and  said 
"Another  gasp!  Jessie  Randolph  got  her 
million." 

Alec  sent  her  sensational  gowns  and  jewels. 
Wherever  he  took  her,  he  made  her  the  envy  of 
every  other  woman,  and  made  himself  the  envy 
of  every  other  man!  She  had  been  beautiful 
before,  but  against  the  background  made  for 
her  by  Alec  Haskel  she  was  a  dream !  Brilliant ! 
Captivating! 

From  twelve  till  seven  every  day  he  talked 
the  Wall  Street  language  of  stock  and  finance 
with  the  business  figures  of  pictures.  From 
seven  till  twelve  he  devoted  himself  to  Jessie. 
For  one  month.     And  then — he  asked  her  to 


Every  advertisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGiZIXE  is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Maoazini   mn  i'i  hki wry,  1931 


127 


marry  him       Riding  down  thr  beautiful  miles 

from  I'.ilo^  \ Yrili-.  one  night,  In-  drew  li< r 

to  him  .unl  Baked  her  if  the  would  lie  his  wife. 

"Of  cow  o.l.    She  slipped  her  arms 

up  arouri'l  bis  shoulders.    "Youve  been  very 

■   to  me,  A 

•■  Plan  a  wedding  a  you  like,  deer," 

Jd     "  We  must  invite  everyone  oi  im|x>r 

m  ml  as  much  as  you  wish     Money  is 

onsiderttion     Sou  arc  marrying  the  most 

Influential  man  in  the  film  business,  my  dear!" 

Ami  that  night  he  wrote  his  lawyer  in 

\  ork  that  in-  had  managed  an  angle  lor  the  besl 

publicity  ol  all! 

"Selling  yourself  here,"  he  wrote,  "is  a  busi- 

lt  must  in-  built  on  one  sensation  after 

another.     1  In-  wedding  will  gel  everybody's 

attention     it  is  tin-  h<>t  investment  1  could 

bly  make.    Andbj  good  hick,  the  bride  is 

pretl 

•  •  • 

J5IE  hadn't  seen  Jimmy  Macalister  since 
tin-  last  night  they  had  danced  at  Redondo 
She  hail  intended  tk  u,  of  course,  to  In-  their  last 
time  together,  And  it  might  have  been.  She 
need  not  have  seen  him  again.    Hut  what  she 

did,  the  day  after  she  hei  ame  engaged  to    UeC 

Haskel,  was  to  gel  a  pari  <>n  Lasky  location. 
Fifteen  hour-,  straining  work  under  staring 

lights, — for  the  chance  to  find  Jimmy. 

I  lee,"  he  said,  "  I'm  glad  to  see  you,  honey!" 

lie  didn't  say  anything  about  Alec  Haskel. 
Nor  the  ways  in  which  Alec  Haskel  had  made 

sens.it ional.      He  only  said- 
want  to  have  supper  with  me  tonight  at  'The 
Magnificent '?  " 

They  had  nicknamed  a  little  restaurant  "The 
Magnificent"  because  it  wasn't. 

I'hey  had  supper  on  a  red  checkered  table- 
cloth across  the  aisle  from  a  man  who  tilled  his 
soup  with  crackers  and  left  his  spoon  in  his 
coffee  cup.  , 

I  ie  laughed,  a  little  too  gaily.  Jimmy  was 
a  little  too  conscious  of  his  hands,  stained  with 
-.  that  wouldn't  scrul)  out.  They  walked 
hack  to  Canary  Court,  down  Sunset  Boulevard. 
He  went  in  with  her.  across  the  BagSton 
the  little  houses  dark;  the  court  hushed  and 
empty.  A  mocking  bird  sang  somewhere;  a 
harsh,  single  strident  note.  The  air  was  sweet 
with  damp  tiger  lilies.  Jimmy  brought  a  key- 
out  of  his  pocket. 

"Here's  something  I  got  for  you,"  he  said. 
"It  htVwigfl  to  a  bungalow.  I  was  u'oing  to  ask 
if  yon  wanted  it — I  was  going  to  say  couldn't 
we  get  married.  But  I  guess  I  didn't  have  any 
business  thinking  about  it.  I  know  you  ought 
to  have  the  kind  of  things  I  couldn't  give  you. 
I  don't  blame  you,  honey.  I  think  I'll  have 
some  money  some  day  myself,  but  maybe  I 
won't.  Anyway,  I  couldn't  ask  you  to  wait  for 
it  Hut  I'll  always  wish  I  could  have  had  you!" 
His  voice  caught  in  his  throat — "I'll  always 
love  you!" 
Suddenly  she  was  in  his  arms. 

"T  LOVE  you,  too,  Jimmy,"  she  was  saying. 
■*-  in  a  little  panic  like  the  sand-pipers  running 
from  the  title  sweeping  toward  them — "I've 
been  so  happy  with  you — playing  like  a  couple 
of  kids — and  we  could  go  on  and  pretend  we 
were  happy,  but  we'd  be  skimping  and  strug- 
gling and  you'd  be  doing  without  things  for 
me.  and  I'd  be  doing  without  things  for  you. 
and  we'd  have  to  count  and  scheme  till  we'd 
hate  each  other!" 

She  clung  to  him,  her  cheeks  wet  with  quick 
hot  tears. 

"Alec  wants  me  to  marry  him.     He'll  give 
me  everything  I  always  wanted.    It's  like  I  had 
a  fever  I  couldn't  help) — the  fever  of  wa 
everything!     I'd  only    make    you    miserable, 
Jimmy." 

"  Don't  cry.  honey,"  he  said.  "I  know  what 
you  mean." 

She  clung  to  him. 

''  But  I  want  you  to  love  me,  Jimmy." 

''  Yes.  I  love  you,"  he  said.  "  I  hope  you'll 
be  happy,  sweetheart." 

"I  love  you  too."  she  whispered — "I  hope 
you'll  be  happy,  too — " 

She  went  into  her  little  house.    In  the  circle 


It's  the  new  manner,  the  new  mood,  the  new  chic  to  ac- 
cent one's  personality.  It  is  modish  to  be  one's  self.  The 
exquisite  tone  blends  of  Djer-Kiss  Face  Powder  bring  out 
the  natural  color-tones  of  the  complexion.  And  its  soft,  fine, 
exquisite  texture  achieves  a  smoothness  of  flower-like  love- 
liness. Djer-Kiss  also  has  a  singular  affinity  as  a  face  powder 
and  clings  to  the  face  through  the  most  active  day  or  night. 
Since  harmony  in  toiletries  is  as  necessary  as 
harmony  in  costume   here  is  the  new 

.    .    .    DJER-KISS 
ENSEMBLE  IDEA 


ALFRED  H.  SMITH  CO.  Sole  lmoote-s 

New  York  Chicago  Monrreol 

When  you  write  to  idrcrtkers  pletse  mention  THOTOPLAY  MAGAZIXE. 


Paris 


Los  A- 


128  Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  193 

IdOVQIIJ  Is>lps 


Ahvays  at  their 
Best . .  when  you 
apply  rouge  uith 
the  aid  of 

Beauty 
Curve 


LIPS  vivid  with  the  fascinating  accent  of  youth 
. .  .  shaped  in  the  perfect  Cupid's  Bow!  You 
•♦can  gain  the  effect  so  easily  with  Beauty 
Curve  .  .  .  the  marvelous  little  make-up  aid  .  . . 
so  easy  to  use.  Guides  the  finger-tip  or  lip  stick  in 
applying  rouge  . .  .  gives  new,  youthful  loveliness 
to  the  lips  and  face  .  .  .  rouge  is  guaranteed  to 
stay  on  longer  if  applied  with  the  aid  of  Beauty 
Curve.  Sues  to  fit  all  lips  . . .  75c  at  toilet  goods 
counters  ...  or  sent  direct,  postpaid. 
When  ordering,  git*  width  of  mouth  and  height  of 
lips —  from  top  of  red  membrane  on  upper  lip  to 
bottom  of  red  membrane  on  lower  lip,  with  lips  closed. 

SPECIAL  $1  OFFER 

Beauty  Curve,  75c:  Lip  Rouge  Compact,  75c:  all 
for  $1.00.  Beauty  Curve  Rouge,  composed  of 
the  purest  ingredients  and  specially  formulated 
for  use  with  Beauty 
Curve,  keeps  lips  soft 
and  free  from  chap  and 
dryness.  Light,  medium 
or  dark. 

Send  check,  money  order, 
dollar  bill  or  pay  postman. 

The  Beauty  Curve 
Company 

P.O.  Box  65  Dept.  10 

Columbus,  Ohio 


fc  SDramaDance 


W0 

J    »■*  Musical  Comedy,  Start  and  CoDcert  Psncine,  Talkmr 

Pictures,  tlocutioo.  Personal  Development.  Mock 
Theatre  Traininr  apoearaacea  while  learning.  Pupils,  Mary  PickJord, 
Lee  Tracy.  Fred  and  Adete  Asuure,  etc.     Calaloc   16. 

Irwin,  AWlene  University,  66  W.  85th  St.,  New  York 


of  amber  lij^lit ,  on  the  table,  was  an  open  box;  a 
nest  of  fern  leaves  in  which  lay  the  great,  double 
violets  Alec  sent  every  night  for  "Good-night." 
She  heard  Jimmy  going  away — his  footsteps 
on  the  flagstoni  ran  to  the  door  and 

watched  his  shadow  down  the  street,  past  the 
lifdit  on  the  corner — 


Women  Who  KNOW 

Guard  Health  with 
Aiufecbl 


For  SAFE  Feminine  Hygiene 

If  you  write  at  once  we  will  gladly  send  you  a 
generous  sample  of  Mu-col,  the  superior 
prophylactic  used  for  over  25  years  for 
feminine  hygiene  by  doctors  and  nurses  in 
hospital  and  office  treatments.  Nothing  so 
safe  and  effective.  Instantly  soothes,  I 
deodorizes,  thoroughly  cleanses,  protects 
health. 

Why  Doctors  Advise  Mu-col  for  Women 
Doctors  warn  against  dangerous  carbolic, 
mercury,  cresol  and  other  poisonous  solu- 
tions. They  know  Mu-col  has  tenfold 
strength,  but  cannot  injure  the  most  deli- 
cate tissues.  Yet  you  are  sure  of  complete 
cleanliness. 

f  flr*.A.A  — "  ^ou  Send  at  Once 

-M-  l^f  f  Send  today  for  liberal  sample  of 

^P  ■  »  mm.  m  Mu-col.     enough    to    make    :t 

I   ■  mw  ^a*  quarts  of  solution.    Interesting 

I  Booklet  with  Boo*  ,on,.KmJ"ln.e  ">«'«»<.  ■"- 

I  t,m»i,  PaAaae  eluded   FREE,  If  you  send  at 

■  Mmple racKaae  „nce      Mu-col  is  now   sold   in 
I  (nml    fnr  <lru8    stores.    35c.    6(lc.    $1.50. 

■  •5«na  iur  ltut  ril;lii  coupon  now.  with 
r  3*Qt  10c  w  cover  postage  and  pack- 

c„_li°  inc.      for      generous      3-<|iiart 

JdmpiC  sample  supply. 

l~Iu-coI  Co.,  Dcpt.  1217-P,  Buffalo.  N.  Y. 

I   I  enclose  10c  (stamps  or  coin)  for  packing  and  mailing  I 

sample  MU-COL.    Include  FREE  Book  on  Jen,  mine  • 
|   Hygiene. 

■    Name | 

'Address i 


TV  ever  there  have  been  the  fantastic  impos- 
-*-  Bible  yesterdays  and  tomorrows  of  Arabian 
Nights,  they  are  in  Hollywood!  The  sun  goes 
down  on  one  extravaganza,  never  knows  on 
what  other  one  it  will  rise! 

Hut  eterywkere,  five  years  pass,  and  ten  and 
fifteen,  faster  than  our  realization  can  travel 
with  them!  We  all  are  only  sand-pipers  racing 
frantically  after  the  last  track  of  a  receding 
tide! 

So  the  time  passed  in  which  young  Jimmy 
Macalister  had  gambled  on  the  movies  making 
something  of  Hollywood.  And  that  little  patch 
of  miles  between  the  mountains  and  sea  of 
California  awoke  one  day  to  find  itself  one  of 
the  great  and  glamorous  cities  of  the  world!  A 
little  patch  of  miles  where  had  come  into  being 
what  was  probably  the  most  amazing  industry 
time  had  ever  known!  Colored  villas  hanging 
on  the  hills!  Palaces  such  as  King's  had  never 
seen!  Wide  white  roads  taking  the  mountains 
to  the  sea!  Mansions!  Sky-scrapers!  A  riot 
of  progress! 

And  on  the  dumping  ground  once  owned  by 
Mr.  James  Macalister,  the  buildings  of  a  billion 
dollar  studio! 

And,  like  an  artist's  painting,  on  a  high  hill 
where  the  yuccas  bloomed,  were  the  drives, 
mansion  and  gardens  of  Mr.  James  Macalister's 
estate.  Blue  lake  and  drifting  swans.  Scarlet 
roses  and  white  magnolias.  Galleries  shaded 
from  the  sun.    Servants  moving  quietly. 

Mr.  James  Macalister  was  not  a  bachelor. 
Young  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Macalister  were  exceed- 


1 

Lngly  popular.  Not  vulgarly  rich.  Just  envi- 
ably happy.  Always  together.  The  motion 
picture  Hili  lifted  supercilious  shoulders.  An- 
other gasp  for  Hollywood!  A  husband  and 
wife  in  love! 

"Jimmy  dear,"  said  Mrs.  Macalister  one 
sunny  January  morning  of  nineteen  hundred 
and  thirty-one,  "don't  you  think  it  would  be 
fun  to  have  a  fireplace  built  in  the  garden  for 
chilly  evenings — a  great  big,  old  fireplace  where 
we  could  cook  beefsteak?  " 

She  kissed  him  on  the  top  of  his  head,  a  little 
spot  growing  suspiciously  near  to  bald. 

"All  right"  he  said.  "Let's  go  down  town 
to  Duffins  and  ask  about  it."  Duffins  was  the 
landscape  gardener  who  took  care  of  their 
estate.  "Let's  take  the  roadster.  I  feel  like- 
driving  a  car  myself  this  morning!" 

"DEVERLY  BOULEVARD  into  town.  Blue 
■'-'sky.    A  load  of  sunshine! 

"Darling,"  she  said,  "whom  do  you  think  I 
saw  yesterday?  Alec  Haskel  and  the  girl  he 
married.  You  remember  the  girl  Alec  Haskel 
married,  don't  you,  darling?" 

"  Yes,"  Jimmy  Macalister  said.  "  Where  did 
you  see  them?" 

"At  Estelle  Taylor's  tea,"  she  told  him. 
"Estelle  invites  everybody  she's  sorry  for.  I 
could  have  cried  for  Alec  Haskel  and  his  little- 
wife.  She  was  so  pretty  when  he  married  her. 
And  so  thrilled!  And  she's  so  drab  now — and 
so  kind  of  wistful!  And  Alec,  so  shabby,  and 
his  everlasting  pretense  so  pitiful!  She's  plod- 
ding around  trying  to  get  work  at  the  studios. 
It's  all  they  have  to  live  on.  And  it  must  be  so 
hard  for  her  to  find  it,  because  everybody's 
forgotten  her.  And  Alec  is  still  talking  Wall 
Street,  with  nobody  listening.  Jimmy,  I  asked 
them  to  dinner.  I  hope  you  won't  mind.  Her 
eyes  were  so  tragic — and  so  beaten!'' 

"No,  I  don't  mind,  sweet,"   Jimmy  Mac- 


What,  another  Garbo?    This  is  Tala  Birrell,  a  Roumanian  beauty  who 
played  Mona  in  the  German  version  of  "The  Boudoir  Diplomat."     She 
doesn't  speak  much  English,  and  unless  we  see  her  in  foreign  versions  we 
aren't  apt  to  get  a  look  at  the  girl  for  quite  a  while     • 


Etery  advertisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Macaztki    h>k  Febri  \kv,  1931 


I     "I'm  glad  you  asked  them    When 
I  think.  <>f  little  wives  n  bo  haven't  very  much,  1 

always  Ill  ink  of  «  Inn  ...  didn't  li.iw   miv  nun  ll 

ami  you  h.iil  to  liinit  for  the  places  to  buj  ■  heap 
tables.    And  you  trashed  the  clothes  and 
m  rubbed  the  Moor-,  and  turned  my  cull 

stood    on    a    table    and    painted    tin-    kitchen! 

Those  irere  tough  days  lot  you,  sweel 
\  on  wire  wonderful  I" 

She  looked  at  him  adoringly. 
i      .         *'/ tough,"  she  said, "  because  we 
loved  each  other."     Mrr  left  hand  with  its 
diamond  circled  ringer  dosed  around  his  arm. 

"But  darting,"  she  said,  "ju^t  think  if  I 
hadn't  called  you  bai  k  that  nigh)  in  a  hat  «.<s 
the  Dame  of  it     Canary  Court  I" 


Seven  Boys  "On 
the  Western  Front" 

|  Con  MM  I  l>  I  ROM  PAOJ    35  | 


Be  Buffed  hum-  Barrymore  .-i  ills  and  "  Uas, 
poor  Yoricked  all  over  the  trenches.  Then 
one  day  they  placed  a  large  bundle  of  dynamite 
in  the  ground.  "  You  art-  to  run.  Walter,"  they 
told  him,  "and  fall  just  a  few  short  (eel  to  t  In- 
side. Turn  your  face  away.  You  can  do 
they  asked.  '"I'll  do  it,"  he  said.  He  h>ok  his 
place.  The  others  watched  tensely.  The 
signal  was  given. 

He  ran  and  fell.  Just  a  few  feet  to  the  right 
the  earth  tore  and  thundered. 

He  lay  still  a  terrific  minute  and  then  went 
through  his  scene. 

\\  alter  has  lo>t  his  complex.  lie  jokes  about 
it  now. 

Ottl  \  DAVIS.  Jk.  Peter),  was  a  jolly, easy- 
going kind  of  kid. 

The  boy  with  the  "smiling  pan"  they  called 
him.  Life  was  something  to  smile  through  with 
Owen. 

They  watched  it  go,  that  smile.  A  little  at 
a  time. 

Lew  Ayres.  the  never-to-be-forgotten  Paul 
of  the  picture,  sat  across  the  table  and  looked 
into  space.  ""I  never  could  say  what  I  felt 
about  things  very  well."  he  finally  said,  "but 
since  I  finished  that  picture  everything  seems 
locked  up  tighter  than  ever. 

•'  I  can't  seem  glad,  or  sad,  or  anything. 
Wonderful  things  happen,  lucky  breaks,  and 
I  just  can't  even  seem  glad. 

•'  ("an  you  beat  that?  I  am  glad — don't  mis- 
understand. Glad  and  grateful,  but  I  just 
can't  show  it.  I  felt  that  thing  so  keenly.  We 
went  into  that  picture  a  group  of  average,  wise- 
cracking fellows.  We  didn't  come  out  that 
way,  I  can  tell  you. 

"After  all,  I  was  another  fellow  for  six 
months.  I  wore  Paul's  uniform.  I  lived  with 
his  friends.  I  just  became  him  somehow.  Lew 
Avres  was  someone  I'd  known  back  in  the  past 
I  Paul. 

"We'd  work  all  day.  Often  all  night.  Dog- 
tired,  we'd  creep  back  to  the  little  hotel  to 
snatch  a  wink  of  sleep  between  scenes. 

"  < >f  ten  we  were  too  fagged  out  to  drag  down 
to  eat. 

"Seven  fellows  of  us  lived  like  this  together. 
Tired,  scared  sometimes,  and  hungry.  That's 
what  made  it  so  real.  That's  why  everyone  of 
us  felt  we  were  actually  living  the  thing.  We 
were  those  German  fellows  back  there  in  the 
war. 

"  We  were  often  soul  sick  and  heart  sick  for 
them.  Xo  wonder  vou  think  we're  a  bit 
different." 

A  T  the  very-  end,  those  seven  boys  marched 
■*  *by  in  spirit  with  one  long  backward  glance. 
Could  they  have  been  looking  back  at  the  care- 
free vouth  lost  back  there  on  a  location  battle- 
field? 

Hollywood  thinks  so. 


I  2  (J 


LI  N  IT 

IS       SOLD       BY 
YOUR     GROCER 


THE     B  AT  H  WAY    TO    A 
SOFT.     SMOOTH     SKIN 


(    ///■>■    is    the    famous 

test   llial   INSTANTLY 
proves    you    can    have 

A  SKIN 

SOFT  AS 
VE  LVET! 

Here  is  a  test  that  is  a  pleasure  to 
make  and  will  prove  t:>  you  that 
your  skin  can  feel  soft  as  a  baby's. 
Swish  a  handful  of  Linit  in  a 
basin  of  warm  water,-  then  wash 
your  hands,  using  a  little  soap.  Im- 
mediately after  crying,  your  skin 
feels  soft  and  smooth  as  rare  velvet. 
This  te:t  is  so  convincing  that 
you  will  want  to  use  Linit  in  your 
Merely  dissolve  half  a  pack- 
age or  more  cf  Linit  in  your  tub 
and  bathe  as  usual.  A  bath  I 
richest  cream  couldn't  be  more  de- 
lightful or  have  such  elective  and 
immediate  results. 

10  economical  tnat  at 
least  ycu  should  give  it  a  trial. 
Let  results  convince  you. 


When  you  write  to  «dTertlsers  ple»se  mention  mOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


riioiopLAY  Magazine  for  1-j.bruary,  1931 


Trylh 

Finger-tipTest 

Don't  trust  your  mirror!  It  can't  tell  you  about 
the  invisible  dandruff  cap  clogging  the  pores  of 
your  scalp  and  stifling  the  growth  of  your  hair. 
Find  out  now.'  Gently  scratch  your  scalp — 
then  look  at  your  finger  tips. 

Dandruff  is  no  mystery — it's  just  as  natural  as 
perspiration.  Ordinary  washing  doesn't  remove  it. 
The  only  way  to  remove  dandruff  is  to  dissolve 
it,  then  wash  it  out.  Fitch's  Dandruff  Remover 
Shampoo  dissolves  and  removes  every  particle 
of  dandruff  instantly  under  a  money-back  guar- 
antee.    Rinses  thoroughly  in  hard  or  soft  water. 

Fitch's  has  never  failed  in  37  years  of  increasing 
sales.  Applications  at  barber  shops  and  beauty 
parlors.  Retail  sizes  at  drug  and  department 
stores.  Use  Fitch's  tonight  and  enjoy  the  sensa- 
tion of  a  really  clean  scalp. 

Send  10c  for  trial  size  and  booklet. 

F.  W.  FITCH  CO.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa  PH2 

For  10c  enclosed  send  generous  trial  package  and 

32  page  educational  booklet  "Your  Hair  and  Scalp." 


Name. 


Address. 


ROCHESTER,   N 


ll 


EALTHforYOU 

Suffering  Relieved  * 
Work  Made  Easy  • 

TV/TEN  and  women  everywhere  are 
■^-^  finding  new  joy  of  living,  are  re- 
lieving pain  and  strain  with  The 
Natural  Body  Brace  I 

Overcomes  weakness  and  organic  ail- 
ments; develops  lungs,  chest;  erect,  strong 
figure.  Replaces  andsupports  misplaced  or- 
gans. Strengthens,  straightens  the  back. 
Supports  enlarged  abdomens.  Enables  you 
to  be  active,  do  things,  feel  fit  alwaysl 

THWI/%TUIQ%IL> 

BCCY  13  RACE 

Corrects  stooping  shoulders,  relieves  backache,  curvature, 
nervousness,  constipation,  ruptures,  after  effects  of  the  Flu. 
Made  to  fit  individual  measures.  Comfortable,  easy  to  wear. 
Over  300,000  satisfied  users! 

Costs  You  Nothing  To  Try 

If  Not  Satisfactory  After  30  Days'  Trial! 

Be  fit,  strong,  active.  Conserve  your 
health  and  efficiency.  Save  your  body. 
Save  money! 

Send  Coupon  for  free  illustrated  book- 
let, "Health,  Strength  and  Perfect  Fig- 
ure", with  details  of  our  Liberal  Trial 
Proposition  and  the  Free  Howard  C.  Rash 
Individual  Health  Service. 

THE  NATURAL  BODY  BRACE  CO. 

Howard  C  Hash.  t*rea. 
209  RASH  BUILDING  SALINA.  KANSAS 


THE  NATURAL  BODY  BRACE  CO. 
Howard  C.  Rash,  Prm. 
209  Rash  Blag.,  Salina,  Kansas 
Plen»e  send  me  free  booklet,  "Health,  Strength  and  Perfect    | 
Plirare,       nn.l  full  details  of  your  free  Individual  lie.il ih  San  U  l 
hiui  Libera]  Tri»l  Proposition. 


Nan 


Add  res* 


L'^fj_  -_ -_ State.... .__- S~HA 


Does  Wickedness  Pay? 


[  (  ilNTIM  ED  I  ROM  PACE  33 


Lowell  adroitly  seduced  the  Spirt tuelle  Lillian 
Gish.  In  subsequent  films  he  has  been  (I)  a 
charming  drunkard,  (2)  a  dissipated  prince, 
(3)  a  decadent  adventurer,  (4)  a  bestial  king, 
(5)  a  besotted  king,  (6)  a  frivolous  king, 
superior  gigolo,  (8)  a  philandering  author, 
racking  master  crook,  <  10)  etcetera. 

He  flirts  with  every  pretty  girl  in  sight,  wan- 
ders boredly  in  and  out  of  boudoirs,  breaks  up 
homes,  steals  wives,  and  makes  a  general  dis- 
grace of  himself.  An  idler,  a  dissolute  rounder, 
a  cad,  a  male  butterfly,  a  tailor's  dummy,  a 
cheap  blackguard,  he  stands  for  everything  we 
profess  to  find  revolting  in  a  man. 

And  he  gets  four  times  as  much  fan  mail  as 
do  the  virtuous  heroes  of  the  pictures  in  which 
he  is  the  despicable  villain! 

TS  this,  then,  the  kind  of  man  American 
-*-women  secretly  admire?  .But — and  this  is  a 
strange  thing  indeed — even  more  men  write  to 
him  than  women!  So  our  tired  business  men 
all  wish,  way  down  deep  inside,  that  they 
might  loll  and  philander  their  way  through 
life?  So  every  stern  captain  of  industry 
secretly  wants  to  spend  his  days  choosing 
shirts  and  socks  and  his  evenings  being  pursued 
by  beautiful  women  who  offer  their  hearts  for 
him  to  break  with  a  yawn?  (But,  oh,  how 
graceful  a  yawn!)  Strange  are  the  revelations 
of  fan  mail! 

Lowell  has  been  called  the  wittiest  man  in 
Hollywood.  What  he  has  is  not  so  much  a 
sense  of  humor  as  a  sense  of  the  ridiculous. 
Once  a  producer  gave  a  company  on  the  set  a 
sharp  scolding  for  being  uneconomical,  and  two 
seconds  later  Lowell  was  doing  a  burlesque  of 
it — pacing  the  floor,  tearing  his  hair,  threaten- 
ing to  quit  his  job  instantly  because  the  prop- 
erty boy  was  using  full-strength  insecticide  to 
kill  flies  instead  of  thriftily  diluting  it. 

Lowell  literally  cannot  give  you  a  straight 
answer  to  a  question.  Everything  he  says,  he 
gives  an  original  twist.  When  he  was  directing 
a  picture  for  the  first  time,  something  went 
wrong  with  a  scene,  and  it  had  to  be  re-taken 
half  a  dozen  times.  Constance  Bennett  was 
watching  from  the  sidelines,  with  her  friend  the 
Marquis,  Gloria's  Ex. 

Lowell  came  over  to  them,  mopping  his  fore- 


head and  rolling  his  eyes  towards  the  roof  of  the 
sound-stage.  Anyone  else  would  have  said 
simply,  "If  we  do  it  right  this  time  I'll  be 
thankful,"  or  "If  we  do  it  right  this  time  I'll 
be  tickled  to  death."  Lowell  didn't.  He  said: 
"If  we  do  it  right  this  time  I'll  say  three  A* 
Marias  in  Yiddish!" 

His  humor  ranges  from  rank  slapstick  to  the 
most  delicate  exaggeration.  A  magazine  writer 
ran  into  him  once  on  the  Boulevard  on  a  swelter- 
ing summer  day,  when  he  was  wearing  a  golf 
sweater. 

"  You  must  be  simply  roasting  in  that 
sweater!"  she  exclaimed.  Lowell  sighed,  and 
replied  in  a  voice  barely  more  than  a  whisper. 
"Oh,  no,  it's  quite  porous!'' 

But,  to  use  a  trite  phrase,  it  isn't  what  he 
says  but  the  way  he  says  it.  Early  one  morn- 
ing, a  few  days  ago,  a  factory'  in  downtown  Los 
Angeles  blew  up. 

That  noon  at  lunch  in  Radio  Pictures  res- 
taurant the  waitress  asked  Lowell  if  he  had 
heard  the  explosion. 

"What  time  was  it?"  he  asked. 

"Seven  o'clock." 

"Oh,  no,"  said  Lowell.  "I  was  eating  toast 
then." 

TX  "The  Royal  Bed,"  the  picture  he  has  most 
-•■lately  directed,  he  again  plays  the  part  of  a 
king.  The  kingdom  is  in  danger  of  revolution, 
with  thousands  massing  on  the  streets  under 
the  red  flag.  The  army  has  been  called  out,  the 
queen  is  in  hysterics,  the  diplomats  are  racking 
their  brains,  the  throne  is  in  danger.  Lowell 
saunters  aimlessly  into  the  castle. 

"I've  been  down  to  the  royal  zoo  looking  at 
the  penguins,"  he  announces.  "Hove  to  watch 
them  walk.  They  walk  just  like  human  beings!" 

Try  to  tell  where  Lowell  Sherman,  man. 
leaves  off,  and  Lowell  Sherman,  actor,  begins! 

As  a  director  he  is  all-fired  clever.  He  is  one 
of  the  best  actors  in  Hollywood.  He  is  deft, 
breezy,  gay,  easy.  He  is  probably  the  one  real 
sophisticate  of  the  screen.  His  steadily  increas- 
ing popularity  lies  not  so  much  in  the  roles  he 
plays,  but  in  the  consummate  charm  with 
which  he  plays  them. 

Charm? 

Charm  and  double  charm! 


The  Tomboy  of  the  Talkies 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  57  ] 


performance  has  already  begun.  Yet  her 
evening  wrap  of  white  ermine,  seldom  worn 
but  often  patted  with  loving  fingers,  is  the 
equal  of  any  in  Hollywood,  and  sets  off  the 
flaming  hair  to  perfection. 

I  once  found  her  storming  and  half  in  tears  be- 
cause the  scales  registered  the  gain  of  an  ex- 
tra pound,  and  diffidently  hazarded  an  opinion 
that  in  consideration  of  the  type  of  roles  she 
plays  anyway,  her  fans  might  find  her  even  the 
funnier  with  a  figure  a  little  less  slender.  Her 
answer  was  significant,  and  heartfelt. 

"The  heck  with  pictures!"  she  flamed.  "I 
want  to  look  good  on  the  street." 

Three  husbands  swore  to  love,  cherish  and 
protect  her,  and  failed.  She  doesn't  speak  of 
them  often.  In  fact,  it  was  only  by  reading  an 
interview  in  a  foreign  magazine  that  her  closest 
friends  learned  that  the  last  venture,  too,  had 
ended.  "Put  them  all  in  a  gunny  sack,  shake 
'em  together,  and  you  couldn't  make  one  real 
man  out  of  the  three."  she  once  said,  and  was 
sorry  immediately  afterward,  after  her  fashion 
of  saying  things  and  then  regretting  it. 

She  doesn't  think  she'll  try  again  .  .  .  but 


she's  warm-hearted,  sympathetic,  and  lonely. 
A  dangerous  combination. 

Her  home,  in  Beverly  Hills,  is  another  sur- 
prise to  the  person  who  thinks  he  already  has 
Winnie  Lightner  catalogued.  Done  in  the 
Spanish  style,  and  furnished  lavishly  in  dark 
reds,  it  is  nevertheless  a  tasteful  place,  and 
endowed  with  a  heavenly  quiet. 

Like  another  red-head  who  is  so  much  in  the 
public  eye,  Winnie's  intimates  are  few,  and 
almost  never  chosen  from  those  of  her  own 
fame.  A  director,  perhaps,  a  few  song  writers 
and  musicians,  and  the  rest  of  the  guests  at  one 
of  her  parties  may  all  be  extras,  friends  made 
while  at  work  with  them  on  a  picture. 

Y\  TORLDLY  goods  don't  count  with  Winnie, 
W  nor  fame — but  true  understanding,  dis- 
interested sympathy,  some  streak  of  wild  gaiety 
that  they  have  in  common  —  these  are  the 
bonds  that  admit  one  to  friendship  with  Winnie 
Lightner.  If  she  likes  you,  the  world  is  yours. 
If  not.  she  stays  out  of  your  way. 

Sometimes  she  emerges  from  weeks  of  seclu- 
sion, especially  the  order  while  working,  and 
gives  a  party.     That  over,  Winnie  Lightner 


Erery  advertisement   Id  rilOTOPI.AY  MAGAZINE  is  gunranlecd. 


Photoplay  Magazine  h>k  Febbuaby,  1931 


i  ti 


i  becomes  the  restless  soul,  always  seeking 
something  she  <  annot  find. 

I  want  to  go  somewh         I 
„  \u  n     rlonoluhi?  N  few  N  ork:" 

( rvei  and  over,  she  dm  es  the  floor  in  luxuri- 
ous p  Like  a  caged  tawny  ( al  and 
then,  "  Nana,  bring  me  a  towel  I "  And  >\  innie 
maj  be  found  standing  knee  <  l«-«-p.  regard] 
pajamas,  in  the  baby's  miniature  swimming 
pool  in  the  b.uk  yard,  kicking  the  water,  laugh- 
ing, pushing  feebly  at  the  giant  St  Bernard, 
Him,  who  lumbers  over  to  join  tin-  Fun.    The 

blues  are  forgot  till,  tor  tin-  moment. 

Till  softest  spot  in  Winnie  Lightner's heart 
isforcrippledchildren,andinthat  is  wrapped 
up  hex  great  ambition.  Vean  ago,  in  the 
poverty  stricken  days  sin-  now  hates  t<>  recall,  a 
little  niece  became  the  victim  of  infantile 
paral)  sis. 

"  l  held  her  in  my  arms.  Almost  before  my 
wr\  eyes  I  watched  hex  become  a  cripple,' 
Winnie  will  tell  you  "  rhere  was  bo  little  we 
could  do  We  had  no  money,  and  charity  doc- 
tors are  so  (independable  that's  why,'  her 
kin. IU-.  "some  day,  I'm  going  to  have  a 
children's  hospital  of  my  very  own.  yes,  as 
sikmi  as  I  get  tin-  money,  I'm  going  to  buUd  a 
hospital  with  room  for  fifty  children  and  as 

many  doctors  as  they  need   to  rare  for  them 
properly. " 

That  hospital,  still  nothing  more  than  a 
dream,  is  Winnie's  life  just  now.  Iter  baby, 
Safe  in  the  care  of  his  nurse  and  the  colored 
iook  who  hakes  such  luscious-smellini;  cookies 
every  day  that  the  entire  neighborhood  envies, 
is  too  small  yet  to  Ik-  a  satisfactory  companion. 

HER  work,  into  which  she  puts  her  whole 
heart  at  the  time,  is  not  a  thing  that  she  can 
take  home  with  her.  In  fact,  each  picture 
usually  brings  several  more  weeks  of  vacation, 
since  Winnie  is  one  of  the  fortunateswhomake 
but  a  specified  number  each  year. 

And  so,  each  day,  Winnie  Lightnor  goes  on,  a 
very  gallant  lady,  making  whoopee  for  the  en- 
joyment of  millions  who  may  never  see  her  in 
person. 

Sometimes  it's  forced,  sometimes  it's  real — 
but  the  real  bravery  of  the  comedienne  lies  in 
the  fact  that  no  one  is  allowed  to  know  which 
is  which! 


William  J.  Burns,  the  noted  investi- 
gator, who  is  now  devising  and  ap- 
pearing in  a  series  of  shorts  for 
Educational.  They  illustrate  intri- 
cate criminal  cases  and  their  solutions 
from  his  long  career 


l@fl§f£!^ 


your  ROUGE  SHADES 

this  new,   fascinating 
way.   Forgetallabout 
"matching  your  skin 
and  select  shades  to 
match  your  costume. 


Catch  the  spirit,  the  joyous  freedom,  of  this 
beautiful  new  fashion  .  .  .  rouge  to  harmonise 

with  your  every  costume.  The  charm  of  it  .  .  . 

the  intlivitlutiliti/  .  .  .  and  the  difference  that 
must  exist  when  all  rouse  --hades  match  your 
skin — match  automatically,  without  your 
Riving  a  thought  to  it.  Well  you  know  that 
usual  rouge  does  not  have  this  characteristic. 
Instead  you  have  memories  of  dire  disappoint- 
ment, times  when  you  felt  "horrid"  because 
off  color  make-up  simply  spoiled  the  glory 
of  your  gown. 

Now  what  has  happened?  .  .  .  how  can  you 
vary  the  old  idea  .  .  and  select  rouge  shades 
to  match  costume,  not  troubling  to  match 
your  skin?  Just  this:  Princess  Pit  rouge  does 
not  blot  out  the  slcin.  The  natural  color  is 
caused  by  the  blood  showing  through  the  skin 
— Ix'cause  the  skin  is  transparent  and  has 
scarcely  any  color  of  its  own.  Princess  Pat 
rouge  is  sympathetic  to  skin  tones.  Thus 
whatever  color  your  skin  shows — and  everyone 
has  some  color— is  retained  when  you  use 
Princess  Pat  rouge.  To  this  natural  color, 
Princess  Pat  add*.  Thus  the  beautiful  tints 
imparted  by  Princess  Pat  rouge  seem  to  come 
from  within  the  skin. 

WHY  Different  Colors  of  Costume  Absolutely 

Demand  Different  Shades  of  Rouge 
You  have  learned  how  all  shades  of  PrinOSSS 
Pat  match  every  skin,  why  the  effect  is  in- 
variably natural  and  beautiful.  But  there  is 
another  requirement.  Every  costume  you  wear 
has  a  certain  eolor  value.  You  recognize  this 
when  you  match  dress,  hose,  shoes,  hat 
that  the  ensemble  is  harmonious.  It  is  even 
more  vitally  important  to  recognize  it  when 
you  select  rouge  shadn. 
The  great  mistake  with 
rouge  has  been  this: 
you  had  just  one  shade 
—  say  medium.  To  se- 
cure more,  or  less,  color 
you  used  more,  or  less, 
rouge.  But  the  shade  re- 
mained the  same.  You 


Princfss  Pat  Ln>  Rnri;r  a  new 
sensation — nothing  lot.  For  ti 
dots  irhat  no  other  lip  rouge  has 
ever  done.  Princess  Pat  Lip 
Rougf  colors  that  inside  moist 
surface  of  lips  as  well  as  outside. 
It  is  truly  indelible. 


The  eamrrn  rough!  I.nr.tia 
Youny — star  t>[  First 
Xatlonnl  pictures — choos- 
ing  Prlnc***  Pat  Fnglish 
Tint  m  karmoniii  mth  a 
girlish  frock  of  light  uelloto. 


couldn't  use  other  shade-  for  only  one  would 
match  your  skin.    So  your  rouge  that   might 
have  looked  well  with  delicate  pastel  dr 
was    le-s    than    ineffectual    with    hrilliai.' 
costumes — and  so  on  through  the  range  of 
eolor  combinations  of  costume  and  complexion. 

Marvelous  New  Beauty  If  You  Follow  These 

Hints  For  Choosing  Rouge 
For  gowns  of  all   red   shades,   select    Princc=3 
Pat  Vivid,  or  Princess  Pat  Squaw.    Even  the 
palest  blonde — one  who  has  thought  she  simply 
could    not    wear    bright    red — is    t>eautiful    in 
flaming  colors  through  use  of  Vivid  or  Squaw 
the  right  color  note  in  the  cheeks,     i     t 
gowns    of    purple,    violet,    blue,    use    Squaw, 
Theatre  or  Medium.    When  you  wear  yellow, 
orange,  green,  your  cheeks  are  wonderful  with 
Princess  Pat  English  Tint.   With  .-oft  ; 
costumes,  achieve  the  complexion  note  ol 
delicious  serenity  with  Princess  Pal  Medium 
or  Theatre.    For  tan  effect,  use  Princess  Pat 
imnertan.    For  evening  v. 
use   Prin  easPal  Nite.    This  in- 
deed is  a  marvelous  .-hade,   since 
as  gloriously  to  artifi- 
cial   light   as    the    m 
daytime  rouge  does  to  sunlight. 


end    set 


get  this    week 
-SPECIAL 


The  very   popular   T  I    Week 

F.nil    Bel    tot    this    Col   1 

•     a    month  - 
almond  ha.*   powder  and    Fl  \  1 

'  il    Princess    P.it     p  reparation*. 
Beautifully  decorated  boudoir  box. 


rincess 


Pat 


CHICAGO,  U.S.A.  (IN  CANADA,  93  CHURCH  ST..  TORONTO) 


PRINCESS  1 

270'.'  S.   W 


Enclosed  find  25c  for  which  send  dm  the  Prisma*  Pal 

Wf«k  End  .Sou 


Nunc  (print). 


City  an  I 


When  yon  write  to  idrertlsers  please  mention  riTOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


|ERE'S  the  newest  aid  to  eye 
beauty  —  Lashpac  (patent 
applied  for).  In  a  dainty  enam- 
eled metal  compact  you  get 
mascara  in  stick  form  and  a  tiny 
brush.  Simply  moisten  end  of 
mascara  and   apply  direct  to 
lashes.   Brush   is   used   only 
to  separate  hairs  after 
application.  Use  Lash- 
pac any  time,  anywhere. 
Keep  your  lashes  glori- 
ously dark  and  tempt- 
At  beauty  shops,  drug 
and  department  stores,  $1.00. 
Refills,  50c. 

Write  for  free  folder  "Fascinating  Eyes  and 

How  to  Have  Them" 

THE  KURLASH  COMPANY,  Dept  97,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 


PHOTO 


Size  16x20  Inche* 

Paine  price  for  full  ^%  ^^ 
length  or  bust  form.  |1|1| 
pToupa.  landscapes,  ■■■r  ' 
pet  animals,  etc..  or  ^^B^^^ 
enlargements  of  ony  ■II] 
jtart  of  group  pic*  ^^^^ 
ture.  Safe  return  of  your  own 
original    photo     guaranteed. 

SEND  NO  MONEY 

J  uat  mail  photo  or  snapshot  (any 
Eizeland within  aweesyoawill 
receive  your  beautiful  life-liko 
enlargement  sizelOx^Oin. tniar- 
anteed  fadeless.  Pay  postman 
S8c  plus  postage  or  eend  SI. 00 
with  order  and  we  pay  postage. 

Special  FreeOfferS 

enlargement  we  will  eend  Ff.ee 
a  hand-tinted  miniature  repro- 
duction of  photo  sent.  Takead- 
vantage  now  of  this  amazing 
oSer--«end  your  photo  today. 

UNITED  PORTRAIT  COMPANY 
900  West  Lake  Street,  Dept.  B-131.  Chicaj 

PlHair 


Unloved 


I  once  looked  like  this.  Ugly  hair 
on  face  . . .  unloved  ...  discouraged. 
Tried  depilatories,  waxes,  pastes, 
liquids,  electricity — even  a  razor.  Then  I  discovered 
a  simple,  painless,  inexpensive  method.  It  worked! 
Thousands  have  won  beauty  and  love  with  the  secret. 
My  Free  Book,  "Getting  Rid  of  Al!  Ugly,  Superfluous 
Hair,"  explai  nst lie  method  and  proves  actual  success. 
Mailed  in  plainenvelope.  Also  trial  offer.  No  obligation. 
Money  back  if  not  satisfied.  Write  Mile.  Annette 
Lanzette,   109  W.  Austin   Ave.,  Dept.  655,  Chicago. 


STOPS 


FALLING 
HAIR 


LUCKY  TIGER,  a  proven  germicide, 
1  corrects  dandruff  and  scalp  irritations. 
v World's    largest    seller— Money- 
Back  Guarantee.  Safe  for  adults 
and  children.     At  all  Barbers, 
Druggists  and  Beauty  Parlors. 


LUCKY  TICER 


Painting  Paris  Pink 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  39  ] 


in  Paris  talking  about  weight  lifting!  Imagine. 
Paris  to  right  and  left  of  you,  cock-eyed  and 
thundering— and  a  large  man  sits  and  talks  an 
evening  away  all  about  weight  lifting! 

The  Neils  enjoyed  I'aris.  They  took  the 
touring  business  seriously. 

Guide  book,  diary,  pencil  and  camera — they 
didn't  miss  a  thing. 

They  saw  Fontainebleau,  the  Louvre,  Gobe- 
lins, the  Kiffel  Tower,  Napoleon's  coffin,  the 
tomb  of  the  unknown  soldier,  and  each  learned 
six  words  of  French,  including  Rue  de  la  Paix. 

"It  was  wonderful,"  gasped  Neil.  "I 
wouldn't  have  missed  it  for  the  world.  But  I 
am  glad  the  whole  trip  is  over.  All  the  time  I 
kept  going  back  to  my  house,  and  thinking  of 
it,  especially  my  garden." 

"DANCROFT'S  visit  to  Berlin  was  full  of 
■•-'chagrin.  Itwas there  he  took  his  now  famous 
tour  of  the  underworld.  Sitting  around,  watch- 
ing all  the  cheap  German  crooks  eating  frank- 
furters and  drinking  beer,  gave  George  a  big 
appetite  and  he  ordered  as  a  starter  pickles.  It 
was  a  bad  guess.  The  sight  of  those  things  that 
once  were  cucumbers  destroyed  what  had  been 


considered  indestructible — the  Bancroftian  ap- 
petite. 

Then  there  was  the  episode  of  the  nickel 
punching  machine. 

You  dropped  your  pfennigs  and  you  took  a 
sock. 

A  local  cauliflower  dared  George  swing  on  it. 
But  Von  Sternberg  (yes  he  was  therej  forbade 
it. 

What  a  night.' 

Double  disappointment.  First  food,  then 
fisticuffs. 

"IT'S  the  men  who  get  lonely  in  Paris.  The 
■'■women  love  it  all.  However  late  they  may 
have  retired  they  are  up  and  out  when  the 
clock  pings  ten. 

Paris  is  a  girl's  own  home. 

It's  heartbreak  house  without  sous,  but  with 
a  beaded  bag  full  of  tokens,  oh  Fmily!  Even  if 
they  remain  at  home,  they  can  buy.  Little 
women  who  spile  English  razzer  well  tap  lightly 
on  hotel  doors  and  open  cases  full  of  the  hand- 
made, the  home-spun  and  the  fizzly-dazzling 
glories  of  what  underwear  can  become  in  the 
hands  of  a  gyp  artist. 


The  talkies'  latest  thingumbob,  or  gadget.    Radio  Pictures  are  using  this 

camera  tower  on  "Cimarron."    It  carries  directors,  cameramen,  yes-men, 

and  for  all  we  know,  a  hot  dog  stand  and  orange  juice  bar 

Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Magazine*  h>r  Fkbeuary,  1931 


'33 


Impart 
Color  to 


mm 

Gray  Hair 


GRAY  iiui 
busincHi 


l(  A  V  hair  is  a 
mid 

social  handicap       •> 
that     you    can     now  ^ 
overcome     without    ^ 
t  ikinii    chances    «  ith 
uncertain  methods  or 
fussing    with     messy, 
sticky  preparations. 
Now  science  has  dis- 
covered   a    liquid    as 
colorless  as  water  it- 
self—yet   it   actually 

imparts  color  to  (!ruv  Hair  im  matter 
what  your  age  —  no  matter  how  gray  you 
are  —  no  matter  what  the  cause  of  your 
Gray  Hair.  It  is  culled  Kolor-Huk.  It  is 
as  easy  to  use  as  combing  your  hair.  You 
simply  comb  kolor-Buk  into  your  hair  and 
the  Gray  (Joes  so  gradually  that  even  your 
friends  cannot  tell  that  you  are  using  any- 
thing. The  beautiful  sheen  of  your  hair  is 
left  unchanged.  Strange  as  it  sounds,  the 
very  same  bottle  of  this  colorless  liquid 
does  for  Blonde,  Black,  Brown,  or  Auburn. 
Already  hundreds  of  thousands  of  bottles 
have  been  used.  So  sure  are  its  ama/ing 
results  that  it  is  sold  on  a  guarantee  that 
if  it  doesn't  make  you  look  10  years 
younger  your  money  will  be  refunded  any 
time  you  ask.  Get  a  bottle  from  any  drug- 
gist or  department  store  today. 

KOLOR-BAK-lmparts  Color  to  Gray  Hair 


fdDECE 

Now 

you  can 

have  the 

VOICE 

you  want 

100% 

Improvement 
Guaranteed 

Send  today  for  fr*«  Voice  Book  telling  about  imu- 

in*  New  SILENT  Mrthod  of  Voire  Trainine;.  Increaae  yoor 
nu«.  your  ton*  qualitiee.  llaniari  huakioese  and  boaraeneaa. 
Learn  to  ami*  with  or*altr  ew* .  100  •/  o  impr nT.-ment  pilar. 
a.l*'rf-or  moner  back.  Write  today  for  free  booklet— «oe  of 
Che  Kxeateat  bookleta  on  Tolro  training  erer  written. 
PERFECT  VOICE  INSTITUTE.  D.pt.  12-S2 
1*22  Sunny»id«  Av...  Chicago 


CORNS 

and   tender  toes  —  relieved 

in    1   minute  by  these  thin, 

soothing,  healing  pads.  Safe! 

At  all  drug,  shoe  and  dept.  stores. 

DlScholls 

Zinopads 


Put  one  on — 
the  pain  us  Rone  f 


(greater  opportunities  now  in  advcrtls- 
inff.  Learn  eaaile  and  quickie  In  apaxe 
time.  Practical  work.  No  text  books. 
I'U  eatablished  echool.  Low  tuition— 
Baa>  I'lm  S*n4  fnr  frm*  kooklwt  of 
mtrT€ sting  la/unaolwa 

Pace-Davis  School  of  Advertislnc 
Dcpt.2532,3601  M,ch*v'c',""° 


Then  art  about  twentj  of  the  c  pedrlli 

magk    nightie-.,  stepuis  ami   I  he  rest       Norma 

ralmadgc  has  one  and  whisper,  bei  Mine  to 
Natalie  on  condition  thai  1't  tell  anj 

bod)  d  ■      Marion  Davia  h.i^  three,  nol  to 

1 1  until  i  ii  a  fairy  cobbler  and  a  man  who  n 

In -.nli  rj    !.  ■  I  .rillith    has    anothi  r 

l'h>  lli>  Haver  had  one      Bui  do  the) 

l  hey  don't     Mill,  one  b  about 
equal  of  the  n<  cl     \ n< I  often,  it  the)  but  km  « 
it,  one  woman  ii  supplyine  them  all. 

Sleepy  huabandi  grumble  a--  their  s|H. 
Light  out  for  tin-  big  i  lothea  fait     And  no  iron 
der.   Sin  Ii  ezi  uraioni  mean  never  anythirt 
than  a  couple  of  grand.     \t  the  door-,  oj  the 
dresa  ahopa  they  are  greeted  by  everything 

e\i  t-pt  a  brass  hand 

Said  the  owl  al  Jean  Patou:    Mary  Pi.  kford 
lisiks  like  a  little  (rirl,  m>  matter  what  tin 
on.      And  cliarming 

C0NSTANC1    Bl  wi  II  likea  her  thingi 
simple,  straight    I  bat  i  ■  .  bei  afternoon  and 
morning  (rocks.     Hut  for  evening  anythii 
practicall)  anything  to  achieve  an  effect.   Red 
lire  bells,  anything! 

I  >olorrs  del  Rio  in  She  is 

such  a  sparkling  creature,  bei  good  taste  will 
not    permit   her   to   wear  anything   but    the 

simplest. 

Marion  Davies  knows  her  Paris 

around  like  a  whirlwind.     She  knows  what  she 

wants.    Her  sports  tilings  she  gets  at  Madame 

Si  liiaperelli's.    Her  evening  gowns  at  Patou. 

And  then  a  little  thing  or  two  at  \ 'ion net.  You 
have  to  have  a  certain  figure  to  wear  Vionnet 

Hut  when  she  got  home  Marion  said  French 
clothes  are  not  so  hot  Said  she  did  better 
in   England. 

Connne  Griffith  used  to  like  the  Lanvin 
models   but   her  friend   who   was   head   sales 
woman  there  went  over  to  Chanel — so  what 
could  a  |M)or  girl  do?    Corinnc  moved  her  trade 
to  Chanel. 

I'ola  Negri  clings  to  glitter.     Her  clothes  are 

all  snaky.    The  couturiers  don't  like  her.    she 

has  lived  in   Paris  tOO  long.     She  has  learned 

the  Frenchwoman's  ways  of  insisting  on  per- 
fection.   Also  adopted  her  privilege  of  rejecting 

all  but  hundred  per  cent  jobs.  I'ola  has  sold 
her  chateau  and  lives  between  her  hotel  apart- 
ment and  Neuilly. 

At  Deauville  Dorothy  Mackaill  cut  a  deadly 
swath  with  her  bathing  suits.  The  Keatons 
ran  into  her  on  the  beach.  She  met  everybody 
on  the  beach.  She  must  have  got  them  in 
Hollywood  because  no  one  remembers  seeing 
her  in  Paris — for  there  she  would  have  been 
obliged  to  wear  street  clothes. 

Willi. I',  the  women  shop,  the  men  hang 
around  bored,  at  their  wits'  ends  for  an 
occupation.  When  the  girls  aren't  shopping, 
they  go  to  Antoines'  for  a  hundred  dollars' 
worth  of  hairdressing.  Or  to  those  magic  beauty 
parlors.  How  the  French  can  give  a  Swedish 
age  is  something  to  cable  about !  The  am- 
bitious ones  try  to  kill  time — the  early  days — 
by  studying  French.  In  most  cases  this  spurt  of 
energy  disappears  after  one  verbal  clinch  with  a 
bellhop.     Then  they  try  sightseeing. 

Finally,  they  settle  down  to  cafe  sitting  or 
bar  browsing.  Having  nothing  to  do  is.  for  a 
time,  and  in  a  town  like  Paris,  the  best  educa- 
tion in  the  world.  It's  boring  but  it  gives  the 
not  too  cocky  individual  a  happy  outlook  and 
tumbles  him  into  a  good-natured  love  for  the 
whole  world.  The  men  shop,  too.  They  stock 
up  with  neckties  the  first  week  in  Paris.  And 
shirts,  socks,  and  gadgets. 

Buster  Keaton.  for  example,  yearned  all  his 
life  to  see  a  real  bull  fight  Last  summer  he  had 
his  wish.  He  told  Charlie  King  all  about  it  the 
day  he  found  him  in  Paris.  The  pair  are  great 
pals  anywhere;  in  France  they  were  insepara- 
ble. Buster  had  been  back  in  Paris  only  a  few 
days  when  he  learned  that  Charlie  had  checked 
in  at  the  same  hotel  after  a  series  of  personal 
appearances  in  Holland. 

Charlie  was  due  to  make  another  that  ni^ht 
at  the  Madeleine  Theater.  He  did  not  know- 
Buster  was  in  town.     He  had  been  travelling 


the  generous  host 
spent   .   .   .  $28 


er 


she  ruined  h 
GOWN  .  .  $69 


He  took  her  to  dinner  and  the  theatre  .  . .  she 
was  flattered  to  death  to  go.  She  wore  the 
best  stitch  she  had  .  .  .  and  looked  lovely! 

But  during  the  evening  she  perspired  un- 
der the  arms  .  .  .  and  her  best  gown  was 
ruined — stained  and  faded  by  the  acids  of  per- 
spiration ...  to  say  nothing  of  the  offense 
that  this  perspiration  odor  gave  to  her  escort. 

Oh  well,  and  a-lack-a-day!  There  arc  plenty 
of  good  men  in  the  world  .  .  .  but  good  dresses 
are  hard  to  find.  A  really  smart  girl  would 
have  used  Odorono  .  .  .  and  saved  herself  such 
troubles.  And  about  Odcrono — 


THERE  ARE 


KINDS  OF 


ODORONO 

P\  ^ 

ODORONO  REGULAR  (.ruby  colored) 
provides  the  most  lasting  protection  of  all  prepara- 
tions for  use  in  preventing  underarm  odor  and  per- 
spiration— 3  to  7  days.  Apply  before  retiring. 

ODORONO  COLORLESS— 
instantly  effective  and  quick-drying,  is  for  those 
who  like  to  use  Odorono  quickly.  Put  it  on  any 
time  during  the  day,  as  you  dress,  or  at  night.  It 
gives  complete  protection  from  1  to  3  days. 

For  samples  of  Odorono  Regular,  Odorono  Colorless  and 
Odorono   Cream   D  '.J  10:  to  Ruth  Mslter, 

The  Odorono  Company,  In:.,  Sew  York.  (In  Canada, 
address  P.  0.  Box  2954,  MentrtaT). 


When  you  wTite  to  idrertisers  ptc*ae  mention  I'TTOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


'34 


NoMone] 


Sentoii 
Trial, 


New  Low 
Prices 

Save 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 

with  his  wife,  his  sister-in-law,  two  children 
and  a  nurse.  He  was  rehearsing  for  the  song  he 
was  1"  sing  at  the  theater  when  someone  tapped 
on  the  door  and  a  bellhop  announced  that  there 
was  a  reporter  to  see  him. 

"Not  now,"  said  Mr.  King,  "later  maybe." 

The  bellhop  persisted.  A  fifty  franc  note 
hi  Ips  a  lot  to  make  a  bellhop  persistent. 

"Any  time,  later  on,  not  today,"  waved 
Charlie. 

Still  the  bellhop  determined  to  earn  his 
money.     It  was  very  important. 

"No,  no!    Oh,  all"  right." 

And  in  walked  Buster. 

Whee ! 


J,-U«rw 
1 


Mfgs.' 

Orig. 


-mashed      to      ruck-bottom  I 

Think  of  it  —i his  genuine  rennlshed 
Underwood  Plate  model)  for  less 
than  half  the  manufacturer's  original 
price.  Ami  on  easiest  terms  ever 
offered  Dealdes.  Etas  all  late  im- 
provements, such  as  standard  4-row 
i  eyboard,     .'-color     ribbon,     had; 

Spacer,   ribbon   reverse,   etc       Never 

before    has    such    a    bargain    been 

Offered.      Also,    other    world-famous   standard    makes — 

Remington,  Royal,  1_  C.  Smith,  etc.,  all  at  tremen- 

EASY  TERMS  After  10  Day  Trial 

Our  big  new  catalog  featuring  this  world-famous  Under- 
wood at  below  '_,  price  is  vours  for  the  asking  FREE. 
Each  machine  shown  in  full  colors —black,  gold  and  red. 

Compare  our  rock-bottom  prion — see  our  liberal  1  r  and  di- 

rect-U>-youta-v-i.:iyinv[U  plan.  Learn  lit,"'  we  refmipit  the»  fine  typewriters. 

Learn  Typewriting    ~|     Send  for  17  R  17  p1  t 


FREE! 

Complete  Home  Study 
ol  the  famous  Van 
Ssint  Speed  Typewriting 
System,  fully  lUustratea. 
civen  durim:  this  epceinl 
ly  1.  arned.  used 


All. 


,,11:,', 


Catalog 

Pages  of  price-smashing  bar- 
gains. Lowest  prices  in  years. 
10-day  trial  offer.  Tells  why 
we  do  the  largest  direct-to-you 
easy-payment  typewriter  busi- 
ness in  the  world.  Book  is  Free. 
Don't   delay — send   NOW! 

International  Typewriter  Exchange 

231   W.  MONROE   ST.,   DEPT.  252.    CHICAGO,    ILL. 

Are  Yon  Attractive? 

TO  women  who 
value  charm, 
this  knowledge  is 
vital.  Nervousness, 
worry  and  sick- 
ness have  a  mur- 
derous effect  on 
good  looks.  Nerv- 
ous conditions 
cause  the  complex- 
ion to  lose  life, 
luster  and  color, 
the  eyes  grow  dull, 
and  there  is  an  ex- 
pression of  fear  .  .  . 
anxiety  .  .  .  or  other 
misery.  Grace  de- 
parts from  the  body 
of  the  nervous  wo- 
man. To  build  up 
a  woman's  nervous 
system  and  as  a 
tonic  to  renew   her 

womanly   strength,    nothing   is  so   effective   as    Dr. 

Pierce's    Favorite    Prescription. 

Write  Dr.  Pierce's  Clinic  in  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 
Answer  the  symptom  blank  which  is  wrapped 
with  the  medicine  if  you  desire  free  medical  ad- 
vice.    Ask   your   druggist    for 

Dr.  Pierce's 
Favorite  Prescription 

Fluid    or    tablet    form. 


BE  A  JAZZ  MUSIC  MASTER 


5* 


jPlay  Piano  By  Ear 

Pl-T  popular  aoofr  hits  perfectly.  Hum 
the  tune,  piay  it  by  ear.  No  teacher- 
eclf-tnstrui  non  No  tedious dinr-donf 
daily  pr.ct,ce--ju*t  20  brief,  entertain- 
ing lessons,  easily  mastered. 

At  Home  in  Your  Spare  Time 

Send  for  FREE  BOOK.  Learn  many  styles 
ss  and  KyncopatioQ--tnck  end- 
ings.    If  10c  (coin  or  stamps) 
Is  enclosed,  you  also  receire. 
wonderful  booklet      Jlotc  to 
Entertain  at  .Piano" -- and 
many  new  tricks,  stunts,  etc. 
Siagara  School  of  Music 
Dept.  416,  Nlnrara  Falls,  N.  Y. 


*«?. 


Send  foPWthis  Free  Book 


D  EHEARSAL  be  damned.  Where's  my  hat? 
-»-M>ut  the  door,  down  the  stairs,  across  the 
street,  into  Claridge'sbar! 

Soon  they  were  joined  by  wife  Natalie,  Mrs. 
King  and  her  sister,  Gilbert  Roland,  Norma 
1  almadge.     It  was  quite  a  party. 

Natalie  and  Xorma  and  he  had  gone  first  to 
Biarritz.  They  ran  into  the  Torrences,  Powell 
and  Colman  at  the  Casino.  Menjou  too.  And 
Billie  Dove.  Harry  Pilcer  was  knocking  them 
cold  as  headliner.  They  liked  the  swimming 
on  the  big  beach.  But  too  much  dog.  And 
didn't  those  hotels  take  you  for  a  ride?  One 
week  in  Biarritz — bill  two  thousand  of  Uncle 
Sam's  bucks.    Believe  it  or  not. 

Then  down  a  way.  San  Sebastian,  Spain. 
Fine  beach  there,  too.  Great  swimming.  You 
could  play  baseball  on  the  beach.  Buster  loves 
baseball.  He  would  much  rather  have  been  a 
major  league  ball  player  than  a  star.  He 
would  have  too,  had  not  fate  .  .  . 

Al  Jolson  didn't  make  the  effort.  This  fellow 
with  the  big  bertha  personality  is  scared  albino 
of  new  audiences.  He  had  a  hundred  offers  to 
appear  in  London  and  refused  them  all  because 
he  was  scared. 

Irv  Marks,  the  Selwyn  man  in  Paris,  took  Al 
to  London  in  an  airplane  the  last  time  he  was 
there.  It  was  Jolson's  first  flight  and  he  was 
appropriately  nervous.  But  this  wore  off  after 
a  while  and  at  length  his  nerve  came  back 
altogether. 

"  What's  this  all  about — is  this  all  there  is  to 
it?''  he  shouted,  bouncing  in  his  seat.  "Why 
don't  they  do  some  tricks,  loop  the  loop,  or 
make  a  nose  dive?  " 

"The  Singing  Fool"  was  being  shown  at  one 
of  the  theaters.  Alandlrv  satin  the  back  shad- 
dows  incognito  watching  the  audience.  They 
were  knocked  cold.  Al  clutched  the  arm  of  his 
companion. 

"They're  nice  people,"  he  whispered.  "I 
like  them.    I  think  I  could  play  here. " 

So  Irv  slipped  back  and  came  with  the  man- 
ager. And  Al  impromptu  gave  the  astonished 
and  delighted  audience  a  song — in  person. 

Marie  Dressier  lingered  only  a  few  days  in 
Paris.  She  took  in  a  few  galleries  and  bought 
some  clothes,  teaed  and  dined  with  some  old 
acquaintances  and  then  went  on  to  Vienna 
where  the  Fritz  Kreislers  were  expecting  her. 

The  town  of  schnitzels,  waltzes  and  dreams  is 
home  to  her.  That's  where  her  old  friends  live. 
Hut  her  best  ones  are  the  Kreislers  and  Princess 
Windischgraetz,  niece  of  the  former  Emperor 
Franz  Josef.  They  knocked  around  together  a 
lot.  the  four  of  them. 

PVFRY  once  in  a  while  Marie  wakes  up  and 
-'—'pinches  herself  hard.  She  doesn't  believe  her 
good  luck  yet — this  rocket-rise  of  hers  from  the 
ashes  of  her  silent  film  career  to  this  rosy  phoe- 
nix present. 

Kric  Von  Stroheim,  born  and  bred  in  Austria, 
revisited  his  native  country  for  the  first  time 
since  the  war — and  was  miserable.  He  went 
there  to  see  relatives.  He  had  expected  nat- 
urally to  behold  a  change  but  not  quite  the 
thing  that  met  his  eyes. 

The  change  in  the  city  almost  broke  his  heart. 
A  high  stepper  among  towns,  a  delicious  capti- 
vating rogue  among  the  capitals  of  the  world — 
now  a  down  at  the  heel  crone  living  in  turmoil 
and  decrepitude. 

Eric  didn't  stay  long. 

While  the  stars  find  it  a  little  hard  to  collect  a 


DANDRUFF 

A  Sure  Way  to  End  It 

There  is  one  sure  way  that  never  f  aila  to  re- 
move dandruff  completely,  and  t  hat  is  to  di - 
it.  Then  you  destroy  it  entirely.  To  do  this, 
just  apply  a  little  Liquid  Arvon  at  night  before 
retiring;  use  enough  to  moisten  the  scalp  and 
rub  it  in  gently  with  the  finger  tips. 

By  morning,  most,  if  not  all,  of  your  dandruff 
will  be  gone,  and  two  or  three  more  applications 
will  completely  dissolve  and  entirely  destroy 
every  single  sign  and  trace  of  it,  no  matter  how 
much  dandruff  you  may  have. 

You  will  find,  too,  that  all  itching  of  the  scalp 
will  stop  instantly  and  your  hair  will  be  lustrous, 
glossy,  silky  and  soft,  and  look  and  feel  a  hun- 
dred times  better. 

You  can  get  Liquid  Arvon  at  any  drug  store, 
and  a  four  ounce  bottle  is  all  you  will  need. 

This  simple  remedy  has  never  been  known  to 
fail. 

He  Said  He'd 
Never  Marry, 

•pHEN  he  met  this  girl.  She 
■*■  had  read  the  secrets  of 
"Fascinating  Womanhood," 
a  daring  new  book  which 
shows  how  any  woman  can 
attract  men  by  using  the 
simple  laws  of  man's  psy- 
chology and  human  nature. 
Any  other  man  would  have 
been  equally  helpless  in  her 
hands.  You,  too,  can  have 
this  book;  you  too,  can 
enj  oy  the  worship  and  admir- 
ation  of  men,  and  be  the 
radiant  bride  of  the  man  of 
your  choice.  Cut  out  this  ad;  write  your  name  and  ad- 
dress on  the  margin  and  mail  to  us  with  10  cents  and  a 
little  booklet  entitled  "Secrets  of  Fascinating  Woman- 
hood," giving  an  interesting  synopsis  of  the  revelations 
disclosed  in  "Fascinating  Womanhood,"  will  be  sent 
postpaid.  No  embarrassment — the  plain  wrapper  keeps 
your  secret.  Send  your  dime  today. 
THE  PSYCHOLOGY  PRESS  Dept.  4-B 

585  kinc-lund  Ave.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

BUNIONS 

Dissolved      Away 


Test  FREE 


Pain  stops  almost  Instantly! 
THEN  PERMANENT  RELIEF. 

Amazing  Falryfoot  gradually 
dissolves  painful,  ugly  bunions.  Quickly  enables  you  to 
wear  smaller  shoes.  No  messy  salves.  No  cumbersome 
appliancts.  This  marvelous  discovery  entirely  different! 
Vsed  successfully  on  SOO.000  feet.  Write  today  for  trial 
treatment  absolutely  tree!   (Nothing  to  pay.  no  C.O.D.) 

FAIRYFOOT   PRODUCTS    CO. 
1223  S.  Wabash  Ave.       Dept.  20         Chicago,  Illinois 


E 


NURSING 


LEARN 
PRACTICAL 

AT  HOME  IN  xa  'WEEKS 

Msrrtlou.    eallint.     Many    «rn    $20    la    $30  »t*kly 
r  mr»lid«  in  their  vicimtv  WHILE   LEARNING. 
We    help    tteure   positions.      Write 
MISS  C.    TULL.    6204    Wlnthrop,     Chlcaso.    Illinois 


Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


PH0T0P1  ay    M  \..\/im     i.'K    Fl  BJtl   Utt  . 


■  I,  il  ..i  continental  polish  in  n  •  < >hi>1<  ol 
months,  Mill,  what  they  do  gel  help*  .1  lol  and 
further  In 

;iinl  • 

Thi  thing  t  r  i « \ 

deflation  of  tin-  ego  ana  tni   realization  thai 
tluloid  hero  ian'l  the  onlj 

in  lilt. 


Why  Leslie  Kenton 
(lame  Back 

MM  1  I'  1  ROM  PAG] 


■  l  had  t<>  have  some  money,"  was  bis  un 
hesitating  answer. 

•  Km  that  was  just  uli.it  you  said  you  didn't 
want.    That's  why  you  lefl  in  tin-  firsl  pi 

■  But  I  was  flat  broke.  I'm  just  back  to 
make  enough  money  to  go  away  again." 

I  heaved  •>  >i^!i  of  relief. 

"You  Bee,"  lu-  went  on,  "every  minute  "t' 
that  trip  wa-.  grand.  1  went  everywhere  I 
wanted  to  go  when  1  wanted  to  go.  'Hun. 
Suddenly,  1  found  that  1  was  broke.  I  wired 
an  editor  in  London  i  I'd  been  doing  some 
stories  lor  him  and  a  friend  of  mine  in 
Germany. 

'  Both  of  them  came  through  in  line  style 
and  1  had  enough  for  four  more  months  of 
freedom  and  a  ticket  home. 

•  1  hen  I  caught  my  boat  and  came  back. 

Hollywood,  you  see,  is  like  a  hank  to  me.     It 
is  a  place  to  go  and  get  money.    l'U  stay  here 

not  a  minute  more  than  two  years — perhaps 

lest 

"  Then  I'm  gone  again.  Tor.  you  see,  I  don't 
want  any  of  the  things  that  actors  have. 

"]  want  none  of  their  elaborate  households, 

none  of  their  worries,  none  of  the  social  system 

that  has  sprung  up  in  Hollywood,  none  of  their 
ambitions. 

■  \nd  because  I  know  that  I'm  here  for  such 
a  little  time  I  can  be  happy  while  I'm  here.  I 
can  even  he  happy  in  the  studios,  for  I'm  an 
actor  by  trade.  No  matter  how  bad  a  pari  is, 
1  do  it  with  everything  I  have.  If  it  is  a 
part,  something  in  which  I  really  believe,  then 
1  give  till  it  hurts. 

"  I  know  what  Hollywood  does  to  people. 
I've  watched  it  too  often.  It  is.  therefore,  a 
place  for  me  to  make  enough  money  to  live  in 
the  only  way  I  can  live.  I'll  play  my  roles  as 
well  as  I  know  how.  Hut  I  won't  live  the  life  of 
the  average  Hollywood  actor." 

HIS  is  the  face  of  an  idealist.  His  eyes  are  the 
eyes  of  a  man  who  knows  life.  Shamsdon't 
fool  Les.  He  not  only  knows  himself,  he  knows 
others  as  well. 

Although  he  feels  himself  a  part  of  the  acting 
profession,  I  think  of  him  as  a  writer  instead. 
He  has  had  several  articles  and  stories  published 
in  popular  magazines. 

I  feel  better  since  I've  talked  to  Leslie  Fen- 
ton.  I'm  glad  he's  not  back  forever.  I'm  glad 
he's  putting  out  to  sea  when  he  gets  enough 
money.  "I'm  going  the  other  way  'round  the 
world  this  time,"  he  says. 

Of  course  you  might  say  that  he  is  just  using 
Hollywood.  Yet  that's  what  all  of  them  are 
doing  in  one  way  or  another.  And  while  he 
uses  the  town  as  a  bank,  a  place  to  go  and  draw- 
out  enough  money  upon  which  to  live  glori- 
ously, he  is  yet  giving  value  received.  He 
plays  his  parts  upon  the  screen  to  the  very  hot 
of  his  ability.  You  remember  him  in  "Paris 
Bound."'  "The  Office  Scandal."  "The  Danger- 
ous Woman."  "Broadway"  and  others.  You 
remember  him  as  a  line  actor. 

Well,  you'll  be  seeing  him  again  on  the  screen 
— for  two  years — maybe.  And  alter  that,  no 
doubt,  he'll  sail  away  again. 

Leslie  Fenton  is  hack.  But  he  is  still  the 
romantically  mad  Leslie  Fenton  who  thumbed 
his  nose  at  producers  who  offered  him  a  sane 
and  prosperous  life. 


LIPS  now 

8  Jull  hours 


New  H-hour  lip  coloring  formula!.  ./ 
on  entirety  new  color  principle.  Ju-t 

dis<  "i  ertd  in  Paris  by  Edna  H  'allot  <• 

Hopper.  Waterproof.  Wearproof.  In- 
delible. Ends  constant  "makiug-up." 


)     /  apply  it  hen  you  Roottt 

Edna  \v.\ii  ice  Hopper,  famous  stage 
beauty, discovered  it  in  Paris.  A  lip  color 
that  banishes  all  the  smearing  and  fleeting  life 
of  present  ways  in  make-up.  An  utterly  new 
kind  of  lipstick. 

She  sent  it  to  Hollywood,  and  it  swept 
through  the  studios  like  a  storm.  Old-time 
lipsticks  were  discarded  overnight. 

Now — kissproof,  the  world's  largest  makers 
of  lipsticks,  has  obtained  the  formula  from 
Miss  Hopper,  and  offers  its  amazing  results  to 
you.  A  totally  New  type  of  lipstick,  different 
from  any  other  you  have  ever  tried  — 
Kissproof  or  any  other  kind. 

You  put  it  on  before  you  go  out.  Then  for- 
get about  it.  Six  hours,  eight  hours  later  your 
lips  are  still  naturally  lovely! 

No  more  constant  making-up.  No  more 
fuss  and  bother.  Do  you  wonder  that  women 
are  rlocki  ng  to  i  ts  use  ? 

Utterly  NEW  Principle 

It  is  different  in  formula  and  result  from  any 
previously  known  lipstick.    It  does  what  no 


/  Up$l 

other  lipstick  does  or  has  ever  done  .  .  . 
actually  seems  to  last  indefinitely. 

That's  because  the  color  pigment  it  cm- 
bodii  --  has  net er  before  bi  en  us<  d  in  a  lipstick. 

It  holds  where  otlu  r  id  wear  — 

no  trace  ol  iduc. 

Then,  too,  it  is  .1  true,  NATURAL  color.  Thus 
it  ends  that  artificial  smirk  women  have  tried 
lor  \'  ins  to  ovi  rcome.  A  color  that  gloi 
the  lips  to  pulse-quickening  loveliness — trust 
the  French  for  that! 

II  hut  I  o    i-L  For 

To  obtain,  simply  ask  for  the  New  Kissproof 
Indelible  Lipstick  'or  Lip  and  Check  Rouge). 
Ahd  —  remember  it  is  Nor  the  "same"  as  any 
other  lipstick  known.  Don't  believe  that  just 
because  you  have  tried  Kissproof  before  — 
that  you  have  tried  this  one.  You  haven't; 
this  is  Entirely  New. 

Owing  to  tremendous  demand,  the  price  is 
as  little  as  50c — Ldna  Wallace  Hopper  paid 
$2.50  for  the  original  in  Paris.  Two  forms  at 
all  toilet  counters — lipstick  and  lip  and  check 
rouge. 

77i£  NEW 

Jvissprooj 

JtJideliwe  lipstick 

Lipstick — Black  and  red  enamel S'xicel  cas, . 
Black  and  gold  case,  5Gc.  Lip  and  Cheek  Rouge 
— purse  size,  red  and  black  enamel  vanity  with 
mirror,  50c.  Newest  Parisian  Shades:    J 
rical,  Natural,  Raspberry ,Qranze. 


High  School  Course 
in  2  Years 


"i  ou  can  i  omplete 

this,   simplified    High 
Srtmnl   Course  at   home 

insioV  of  two  T*«r»        M"ti    .11   nqvton  t 

.  -i  •     prK-nrftl 

coajM  .r  ■  Bulletin       8tnd    f.  r    it    TODAY 

AMERICAN    SCHOOL 

0.01.  M-243.  Or. i.l  »..    a  58th  St.  AS    l'lj'l         CHICAGO 


Wales 

How  to  banish   them 
A  simple,    safe    home    I 
ment — 16  years'  succes- 
practiee.      Mohs     (also    Big 
Growths)   dry   up  aDd   drop 
off.     Write  for  free  Booklet. 


WM.  DAVIS,  M.  D.   12J-D  Grovs  Ave,  Woodbridge.  N.  J 


Subscribe  for 

PHOTOPLAY 


RATES 

Yr.  \ri.t  Subscription:  12.50  in  the 
United  states.  it.~  dependencies,  Mexico 
and  Cuba:  s.tih)  Canada;  S3  50  to  for- 
eign countries.     Remittances  should  l>c 

n ;:i<le    by    check,  or    |  .;>ress 

money 

USE  THIS  COL  PON 

CAUTION:    Do  not  subscribe  through 
persons  unknown  to  ! 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Dept.  2-P,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

GemU-men:   I  enclose  herewith  S2.50  [Canada  S3.no 
]    f  -    which    kindly   enter   my  sul>- 
f'.r  Photoput   Magazine,  for  one  year, 
eflectlvc  with  next  I 


Cil'i 


When  vou  writ-  to  advertisers  pit  a-.   mention  IMIOTOfl.  \ V  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


JEANETTE  LOFF  •  POPULAR  STAR 


Her  little  secret! 

(  Would  you  care  to  share  it?) 

Nobody  knows  just  what  Helen  does  to 
keep  her  hair  so  attractive  looking.  It  always 
sparkles!  It  never  seems  dull — like  so  many 
other  girls'  hair  does! 

What  is  her  secret? — You'd  be  surprised! 
A  simple  little  shampooing  hint  that  a  fam- 
ous beauty  specialist  gave  her.  Yet  you  may 
share  it,  too!  Just  one  Golden  Glint  Sham- 
poo* will  show  you  the  way!  At  your  dealers', 
25c,  or  send  for  free  sample! 

*(Note:  Do  not  confuse  this  "with  other  shampoos  that 
merely  cleanse.  Golden  Glint  Shampoo,  in  addition  to 
cleansing,  gives  your  hair  a  "tiny-tint"— a  -wee  little 
hit— not  much  — hardly  perceptible.  But  how  it  does 
bring  out  the  true  beauty  of  your  own  individual  shade 
of  hair!) 

J.  W.  KOB1  CO. 


630  Rainier  Ave.,  Dept.   B,  Seattle,  Wash. 
Please  send  a  free  sample. 

Name  


Address. 
City 


State. 


Color  of  my  hair. 


Names 

\A  ARK  your  clothes  and  linen 
•IV  J.  for  safety  from  losses,  easy 
identification,  good  appearance. 
CASH'S  NAMES  are  far  supe- 
rior to  any  other  kind  of  mark- 
ing— give  you  a  choice  of  many 
styles  and  colors — neat — perma- 
nent— economical.      Woven  on 
fine  cambric  tape — "Fast  to 
the    finish."    Order    from 
your  dealer  or  write. 

Trial  Offer  ^ 

one  dozen  of  your  own  first 
name  woven  in  fast  thread 
on  fine  cambric  tape. 

a,         J.  &  J.  CASH,  Inc. 


9A».*2'-* 
6  Aw.*  2* 
3  Am* I* 


H*r1 


ed*»r 


NU 

Depi. 


161sf     St.,     So.     Norwalk, 

j  Conn.,   or   6445    So.   Gra- 

mercy  Place,  Los  Angeles, 

Calif.,  or  171  Gray  St.,  Belleville,  One. 


Id  Money 

and  stamps 

\       WANTED 


TDOST  YOTOSELF1  It  pays!  I  paid  J. 
*•  D.  Martin, Virginia,  $200  for  a  single 
copper  cent.  Mr.  Manning,  New  York. 
$2,500  for  one  silver  dollar.  Mrs.  G.  F. 
Adams  $740  for  a  few  old  coins.  I  want 
all  kinds  of  old  coins,  medals,  bills,  and 
stamp":.  I  pay  big  cash  premiums. 
WILL  PAY  $100  FOR  DIME 
1894  S.  Mint;  $50  for  1913  Liberty  Head 
Nickel  (not  buffalo)  and  hundreds  of  other 
amazing  prices  for  coins.  Get  in  touch 
with  me.  Send  4c  for  Large  Illustrated 
Coin  Folder  and  f  urther  particulars.  1 1  may 
mean  much  profit  to  you.     Write  today  to 

MISMATIC   COMPANY   OF  TEXAS 

105  .  FORT  WORTH.  TEXAS 

[Largest  Rare  Coin  Establishment  in  U.  S.) 


Subscribe  for  PHOTOPLAY. 
Use  the  Coupon  on  (Page  135. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  14  ] 


•     ROMANCE—  M-G-M.— Garbo  personifies  aU 
the  title  implies  In  her  second  talkie.     F'evens 
sakes,  don't  miss  it!     (Aug.) 

ROUGH  WATERS— Warners.— Another  personal 
success  for  Rin-Tin-Tin.     The  children  will  love  it. 

{Oct.) 

SANTA  FE  TRAIL,  THE— Paramount— Richard 
Arlen  in  his  cowboy  suit.  Indians.  And  MiLzi 
Greenl     If  you  like  Westerns,  all  right.     (.Nov.) 

SAP  FROM  SYRACUSE,  THE— Paramount  — 
[ad  I  takie'a  bubbling  personality  puts  this  across. 
Jack  plays  a  good-natured  boob  who  masquerades  as 
a  famous  engineer.     No  panic,  but  good.     (Oct.) 

SCARLET  PAGES— First  National.— Elsie  Fer- 
guson's talkie  debut,  from  her  stage  play.  Elsie  is 
interesting  as  a  woman  attorney.      (Sept.) 

SCOTLAND  YARD— Fox.— A  rattling  good 
crime  story  with  that  rattling  good  actor,  Edmund 
Lowe,  playing  a  dual  role.  This  film  packs  a  wallop. 
(Jan.) 

SEA  BAT,  THE— M-G-M.— Just  another  talkie, 
ho-hum!  By  the  way,  its  Nils  Asther's  first  audible 
film.     (Aug.) 

SEA  GOD,  THE — Paramount.— Wild  adventure, 
pearl  diving,  cannibals — a  real  movie.  Richard 
Arlen    and    Fay    Wray    provide    the    love    interest, 

(Nov.) 

SEA  LEGS — Paramount. — In  spite  of  Jack  Oakie, 
Harry  Green  and  Eugene  Pallette,  this  comedy  isn't 
very  comical.     (Jan.) 

•  SEA  WOLF,  THE— Fox.— Again  Jack  Lon- 
don's famous  Wolf  Larsen  takes  the  screen — 
with  sound.  Milton  Sills  played  Wolf  beautifully. 
His  last  picture,  and  a  noble  thriller.     (Nov.) 

SEE  AMERICA  THIRST— Universal.— A  two- 
reel  plot  stretched  over  a  full-length  film  induces 
sleepiness.  Langdon  and  Summerville  do  their  best 
to  make  it  funny.      (Jan.) 

SHADOW  RANCH— Columbia.— Buck  Jones' 
new  \\  estern  is  a  cracker  jack.     (Dec.) 

SHE  GOT  WHAT  SHE  WANTED— Cruze-Tif- 
fany. — An  hourful  of  guffaws  over  old  man  Boris  and 
his  philandering  wife.  Betty  Compson's  the  wife  and 
darn  good's  the  picture.     (Dec.) 

SHE'S  MY  WEAKNESS— Radio  Pictures.— Ar- 
thur Lake  and  Sue  Carol  in  a  story'  of  love's  young 
dream.     Rather  nice.     (Aug.) 

SHOOTING  STRAIGHT— Radio  Pictures.— A 
deft  mingling  of  under-world  drama  and  comedy  gives 
Richard  Dix  his  best  part  in  a  long  time.     (Sept.)    . 

SILVER  HORDE,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Rex 
Beach's  salmon-fishing  thriller  makes  a  tingling  phon- 
oplav  and  Evelyn  Brent  makes  a  brand  new  hit. 
(Dec.) 

SINNERS'  HOLIDAY  —  Warners.  —  (Reviewed 
under  title  "Women  in  Love.")  Just  as  a  change  of 
Bcenery  the  gangsters  move  out  of  the  honky-tonks 
to  an  amusement  pier.  Grant  Withers  is  the  hero. 
(Oct.) 

SIN  SHIP,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Louis  Wol- 
heira,  as  actor  and  director,  attempts  a  romantic 
role.    Disappointing.      (Jan.) 

•  SIN  TAKES  A  HOLIDAY— Pathe.— Don't 
miss  this.  Constance  Bennett,  beautiful 
clothes,  smart  dialogue  and  a  working-girl-boss  ro- 
mance that  has  a  real  kick.     A  honey.     (Jan.) 

SISTERS— Columbia.— Sally  O'Neil  and  Molly 
O'Day  as  sisters,  one  rich,  the  other  poor.  Fair. 
(Sept.) 

SIT  TIGHT— Warners.— Joe  E.  Brown  and  Win- 
nie  Lightner  repeat   many  of  their  monkey-shines. 

But  they're  still  funny.     (Dec.) 

SLUMS  OF  TOKYO— Schochiko  Film  Co.— 
Silent  Japanese-made  film,  supposed  to  be  "art." 
Drab  story.     (Sept.) 

SOLDIERS  AND  WOMEN— Columbia.— 

Tangled  love  affairs  in  military  circles.     (.4  ug.) 

SOLDIER'S  PLAYTHING,  A— Warners.— If  you 
like  romance  seasoned  with  plenty  of  laughs,  some 
slap-stick  and  hot  thrills,  catch  this.    (Oct.) 

SON  OF  THE   SADDLE— Universal.— A   Ken 

Maynard  Western  with  plenty  of  hard  riding,  gun 
play  and  action.    (Oct.) 


SO  THIS  IS  LONDON— Fox.— The  Will  Rogers- 
Irene  Rich  Seam,  set  down  in  London.  An  amusing 
follow-up  for  "So  This  Is  Paris."     (Aug.) 

SOUP  TO  NUTS— Fox.  — Rube  Goldberg's 
grandly  goofy  cartoons,  his  fantastic  inventions  and 

trcak  statins,  are  all  in  this  hilarious  film.  You'll  like 
it.      (Oct.) 

•  SPOILERS,  THE— Paramount. — Gary  Cooper 
and  William  Boyd  <Ijk<-  a  battle  wilder  than 
the  memorable  fight  between  William  Farnum  and 
Tom  Santschi,  which  made  screen  history.  Red 
meat  melodrama,  packed  with  action,  suspense  and 
thrills.     (Nov.) 

SPURS  —  Universal.  —  Here's  hard-ridin'  Hoot 
Gibson  in  a  Western  that's  a  Western.  It's  fast, 
from  the  fust  shot  to  the  last.     (Nov.) 

SQUEALER,  THE— Columbia.— If  you  can  stand 
another  gangster  picture,  this  one  has  some  new 
ideas.  Well  acted  by  Jack  Holt,  Dorothy  Revier 
and  Davey  Lee.     (Nov.) 

STEEL   HIGHWAY,  THE— Warners.— Grant 

Withers  and  Mary  Astor  against  a  railroad  back- 
ground.   Fairly  entertaining.     (Dec.) 

STORM,  THE — Universal. — This  storm  is  no 
tornado.  A  very  tame  melodrama.  Even  Lupe 
Velez  is  tame  as  the  little  girl  of  the  Great  Northwest. 
(Nov.) 

STORM  OVER  ASIA — Amkino. — Another  of  the 
powerful  Revolutionary  pictures  from  Soviet  Russia 
dramatizing  the  Communist  revolt  against  the  Wlute 
Army   in  1918.     A  smash  ending.    Silent.     (Nov.) 

•     SUNNY — First  National. — Singie  or  not.  it's 
a  gem.      Radiant  Marilyn  Miller  smashes  it 
across.     (Dec.) 

SUSPENSE— British  International.— A  war  story 
and  a  pretty  slow  one.  Vic  McLaglen's  brother  Cyril 
is  in  it.      (Jan.) 

SWEETHEARTS  AND  WIVES— First  National. 
— Billie  Dove's  best  talkie.  Mystery  farce,  with 
Clive  Brook  being  very  farcical.     (Sept.) 

•  SWEET  KITTY  BELLAIRS— Warner  .—A 
dainty  operetta,  beautifully  photographed  in 
Technicolor.  Claudia  Dell,  charming  new  star,  is 
Kitty:  Walter  Pidgeon,  the  baritone  hero.     (Nov.) 

SWEETHEARTS  ON  PARADE— Columbia- 
Just  another  pure  little  country'  girl  among  the  bad, 
big-town  millionaires.  Alice  White  is  the  sweet 
young  tiling.     (Nov.) 

SWEET  MAMA— First  National.— If  you're  an 
Alice  White  fan  this  won't  seem  so  weak.     (Sept.) 

TEMPTATION — Columbia. — Unpretentious  and 
pleasant  love  story'-  Lois  Wilson  and  Lawrence 
Gray.    (Sept.) 

TEN  NIGHTS  IN  A  BARROOM— Willis  Kent 
Production.  —  Old-fashioned  maudlin  melodrama, 
elaborately  overacted.  The  villain  is  Demon  Rum. 
(Nov.) 

THIRD  ALARM,  THE— Tiffany  Productions.— 
Out  come  the  old  fire  engines  to  make  a  big  noise. 
But  no  matter  how  hard  Jimmy  Hall  and  Hobart 
Bosworth  try,  it's  just  one  of  those  things.    (Jan.) 

THOROUGHBRED,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— Wesley  "Freckles"  Barry  is  the  nice  little  jockey 
hero  of  a  nice  little  horse  story  for  the  family  trade. 
(.Nov.) 

THOSE  THREE  FRENCH  GIRLS— M-G-M  — 

Not  even  Reginald  Denny  and  Ukelele  Ike  make  this 
unfunny  hodge-podge  worth  while.  Fifi  Dorsay, 
Yola  D'Avril  and  Sandra  Ravel  are  the  girls.     (Nov.) 

THOSE  WHO  DANCE— Warners.— Monte  Blue, 
in  another  underworld  story  that  doesn't  ring  true. 
(Sept.) 

THREE  FACES  EAST— Warners.— A  great  stage 
plav  and  fine  silent  picture  gone  wrong  in  the  talkies. 
(Aug.) 

TOAST  OF  THE  LEGION,  THE— First  Na- 
tional.— The  lovely  Victor  Herbert  operetta,  "Mile. 
Modiste."  in  all-Technicolor.  Bernice  Claire  and 
Walter  Pidgeon.    A  musical  treat.     (Aug.) 

TODAY — Majestic. — One  of  those  sensationals — 
all  hell,  sex  and  box-office.  Hokum,  but  there's  Con- 
rad Nagel  to  hold  you.    (Dec.) 

•     TOL'ABLE    DAVID— Columbia— A    pretty 
grand  film,  excellently  directed,  and  beautifully 
acted  by  the  newcomer,  Richard  Cromwell.    (Jan.) 


Every  advertisement  In  niOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


MM 


Photopi  m    M  \i.wim  .  1931 


*l.i\t    s\\\  m  K      : 

it.   And  by  all  in.  am.  don  i  It  i  i 

mo   rOI  NO    i"  M  UUtt 

i  Ri  >.  I 

on  i.iiniK   life      O.  P 
lather,  Loretla  Young  and  i.mmi  Withers,  tl^ 
Pull  ol  inn.     {S4PI.) 

i  OF  BF1  111 

with  the  irrepressible  J"'-  l\.   Brown  emphasizing  the 

I  Mf.J 

i  kii.i.i  i<   i  kii  ks  :  -Typical  Root 

with  Sally  Ellen  In  her  real  111 

of  girl-lru-nd.     (.1 ag.) 

TRI    1  II     UIOI    1    ^  Ol    1  II 
st.nt  i  out  to  bt  i  tender  I)  wietiul  itorj  of  youth  and 
typed  April  ami  Novemba  romance. 

l  \Di  R  si  si-k  ion     :  ooc— Yon  n 

■  li.it     h  IDp 

Vlountie,  luit  you II  let  youi  moni  f'l  «rortli 

,'iin.) 

•      I    MIDI  ^     IIIRF.E.   THE  — M-G-M.— Lon 
Chancy  t.iik«.  in  live  voicea,  one  of  then  hh 

natural  m ice.      thrills  a-plenty.     Uluf.) 

i  ■  I  ill  RIVUt— Fox-— Tr*  lighter  aide  of  | 

Brand. 

(Ok.] 

vikwi  si    NIGHTS  —  Vmn  —  Tl 
i   months — with  oh,  what  a 
Vlvienne  Sesal  and  Alexander  Gray   ring  the  love 

I  San.) 

VIRTUOUS  SIN,    Mil  ramaanC— Torrid 

n  frigid  Russia.    k.iv  Pram  is  and  Walter  Huston 

*  \r  Nl  Rsk.  -M-G-M— A  perfect  morle 

■MM    wrong.      GmeaoCBC    and    sdlv.    Iiv    tut: 

a    s.ul    disappointment.      June    Walker, 

RnlHTt   Montgomery  and  Robert    tinea 

have  ilir  l.-.ul-.  wtrich  make*  it  all  doubly  distressing. 

*U  W  FOR  A  SMI. OR— M-G-M—  John  Gil- 
bert Bl  a  he-man  *.ulor.  with  rowdy  humor  and 

irow  dialogue.    Never  a  dull  moment.    (Dae) 

W  \\     OK     ILL    MEN.     THE— First    National.— 
This   just    misses    being    good.      Not    bad,    i. 
Doug  Fairbanks.  Jr. '3  in  it. 

■  \>,    01  T  WEST—  M-G-M— One  of  the  f tmnieat 

Billy  H.uncs  61ml  in  a  long  time.     (Aug.) 

WHAT  A  WIDOW!— United   Artists.— Gloria 
:  -e*i(  k  hut  manage*  to  be  entertain- 
ing in  ligl'l  t  OW,  thr  clotbet.  are  swell,  and 
Lew  Cody  deserves  thr 

HUM     Ml  \    \\  \NT-lniversal.  — This   d 

prove  anything,  hut  Robert  EUis  is  kiood  in  it.  'Stpt.) 

•     WHOOPEE — United  Artists.— Dot 
yoa're  ied  up  on  musical  comedii  - 
"Whoopee"  instead.    Eddie  Cantor  pulls  a  R.ig  a  min- 
ute.    Lavish,  all-Technicolor  production. 

WIDOW  PROM  «  lilt  \<.<>.  THE— First  Na- 
tional.     Alice   \\  bite  is  starred  m  this  conventional 

gangster  picture.     {Jan.) 

WILD  COMPANY  Fox.— Another  of  those  wild 
younger  generation  stories,  but  Frank  AJbertaon  sives 

it  leal  punch.     (..I  ng.) 

WINGS  OF  »DV1  Ml  RE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— Armida  saves  this  far-fetched  adventure  story'  of 
■Ovie  perils  along  the  Mexican  border.     (Oti.) 

•  WITH  BYRD  AT  THE  SOI  Til  POLE— Par- 
amount.— A  picture  beyond  the  usual  praise. 
You'll  have  to  <■•  Commander  Byrd  drop  the  Amer- 
ican Sag  onto  the  South  1'ole  to  appreciate  what  an 
achievement  it  is.  Wonderful  entertainment  from 
any  standpoint,     i.-lug.) 

1  Wkll  DON.  THE— Richard  Talmadae  Pro- 
ductions.—  Richard  Talmadge  made  it  himself  and  it 
slar>  Ins  muscles.    Western,  Very,  very  mello-drama. 

,OI  N<;  WOODLEY— British  International.— 
A  well-made  transcription  of  the  stage  play  about 
adolescent  love.     English  cast.     {Dec.) 

ZWEI  HERZEN  IM    1,  TAKT  (Two  Hearts  in 

Waltz     Time)— Associated     Cinemas. — The     most 

charming    sound    picture    yet    sent    from    Germany. 

nd  tuneful  operetta  in  the  Viennese  manner. 

Von-) 


Mi 


USCULAR  Xfc  I 
RHEUMATIC   Aches   and   Pains 

Draw  them  out  with  a  "counter-irritant" 


DISTRFSSINC.  muscular  lumhaco,  sore- 
ness and  stiffness—  generally  respond 
pleasantly  to  good  old  Musterole.  Doctors 
call  it  a  "counter-irritant,"  because  it  gers 
action  and  is  not  just  a  salve.  This  famous 
blend  of  oil  of  mustard,  camphor,  menthol 
and  other  helpful  ingredi- 
ents helps  to  bring  soreness 
and  pain  to  the  surface,  and 
thus  gives  natural  relief. 
You  can  feel  how  i's  warm- 
ing action  penetrate!  and 
stimulates  blood  circula- 
tion.   Hut  do  not  stop  with 


one  application.  For  full  relief,  apply  this 
soothing,  cooling,  healing  ointmenr  m  n<  r- 
ously  to  the  affected  area  once  t'tvry  hour 
for five  hours.  Used  by  millions  for  <.v<r 
20  years.  Recommended  by  many  do. 
and  nurses. 

Keep    Musterole    handy; 
jars  and  tubes. 

To  Mot  hers— Musterole 
is  also  made  in  milder 
form    for    babies    and 

small  children.  Ask  for 
Children's  Musterole. 


•'Shame*  on  Tr>u' "    Are>  foo  nrrvouM.  *mharraM*rd  In  com* 
pan*  of  1  ho  uthfri't1  Sinn  tioiriti  »hv  ■•t  at  rang?  t 
the*    torriblo  /tar  of  your  aupe'Mnr*      B»  charariul  and  r  on 
fin>nt  of  your    future!     Y-Mir    r...,]t,    raatiy    --  -rngfjn    ao 

r    a  ran  r>n}nv  I  '.-  I  >  tha  f-illrst.  Sand  23c  for  thi*  amiung  book. 

RICHARD    ULACKSTONt.      B-222  FLATIRON    BLOC,    NEW    YORK 


FRENCH  BY  EAR 


marveloui  i"'  1 
Kngllxh    I 

Hn>*hrar.     Pa> 
-tage  on  arr 

• 
buck     k  *1  "». 

K  S]   '.s 

AITOMMIC   RK  OKI)   INSTITt'TF.    1->id-f  <). 
Tribune    Hldg..    IM    NSJSSaU    St..     New     V.rk      S.    V 


INTO  A  BIG-PAY 

HOTEL  JOB 


Earn  $2,500  to  $10,000  a  Year 

In  Am<" 

Restaurants,  Institutions,  Carnps,  - 

f.  r  I  -  ;oi  Maruurer.  Ass'stant  Manas;rr. 

!l       ••     -.      !' 

Turr!  "  and  scores  ■ 

lni:  $_  I       oOO  a  year,  open  annually  in 

Salaried  up  t»  I  irt.      '  I   am   In  charge  • 

m  and  shall  I 
I  .im  eettlne  $i.40O  with 
•  !a  Lydlrk. 


Thpse  Lpwi< 
Students" Made  Good" 
c.i,  ii  ■"..'-  ■  ■  Bare 
taken  the  positioned c\- 
erutive  seerctary  and 
boOM  manacer.  Your 
Instruction  is  helping 
me  wonderfully." 
Iff  If  n  Mn-{i-ft  Ciinrr 
I  secured  the  oosltlon 
appreci- 
ate your  assistance  in 
helping  me  secure  this 
so  near  my 
hom»  and  in  such  nice 
•uiruuiMttngB." 

rhomann  odered  me  a 
pi^iiion  as  cashier.  I 
•hank  you  for  what  the 
Schools  have  done  lor 
me." 

>.iii*  Sffv  "Am  ho*  «i»- 
rl'-y«t  M  How,ki»p»r. 
;h»ak*  to  7«HJ.  A*  looo  *« 
t  h-     nn«    found     I    »mj    » 

■ 


•     BE  A 
SOCIAL 
DIRECTOR 


We  Put  You   in  Touch 
With  Positions 


without  cost  let  us  show  you  how  bis;  pay. 
fascinating  work,  quick  advancement  can  r»- 
is  no  obstacle      th">r  id  vnune  or  mature  aee  can  win  suc- 
cess     A  good  grade-school  education  is  all  you  need  with 
'ing  Plan,  which  adapts  your 
training  to  four  individual  needs  and  requirements. 

Previous  Experience  Unnecessary 


MANAGE 

AN 

APARTMENT 

HOTEL 


Hunri-. 
unacquainted  with 

Martin  Iiuell  beci 
.".oo-room   hotel       Y< 
I.ow     r 

aereement.    National  •  nt   Bu- 

reau FREE  of  extra  cbante    WrM 
fur  Trne  H.~ik.  "Tour  Big  Opportunity." 
ration. 


innings'; 

eTore  taking  the  I.ew;s 
ie  of  the  Managers  of  a 
as  well. 


: 

»■■■  pa  »m.  -iiUiiii  d.  c 


LEWIS  HOTEL  TRAINING  SCHOOLS  : 

Clifford  Lewis.  Prc«. 

Room  DB-108,         Washington.   D.  C.  \     v._... 

The    Original  and  Only   School  of  lis  ' 

Kind  m    the    World  \ 


OPPORTUNITY  COUPON 


Wten  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAT  ILAGAZIXE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


Win  Him  With  Love  Charm 

Choose  a  creation  known  the  world  over  for 
its  exquisite  odeur  and  power  of  attraction  — 
a  product,  of  the  famous  French  Perfumers, 
renowned  for  its  alluring,  haunting  and  subtle 
fragrance  —  a  Perfume  imparting  an  air  of 
Romance  and  Mystery  that  works  the  magic 
of  opening  men's  eyes  to  a  new  and  enchant- 
ing side  of  your  personality. 
Choose  Love  Charm  Perfume  for  a  new  and 
alluring  appeal.     Send  10c  for  sample  vial. 

LOVE  CHARM  COMPANY,  Dept.  108-B 
585  Kingsland  Avenje,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

All  other  Love  Chi-rm  Toiletries  are  the 
resu  It  of  a  spontaneous  demand  from  users 
of  LOVE  CHARM  PERFUME.  These  Toil- 
etries are  prepared  by  well  known  Beauti- 
cians and  Dermatologists.  The  famous 
Frances  Wilcox,  for  many  years  skin 
specialist  for  one  of  America 's  largest  Cos- 
metic manufacturers,  is  representative  of 
the  outstanding  g-enius  employed  in  the 
Production  of  the  Love  Charm  Line. 


>  v^C^- Has  Its 
<Z$"  Rewards 


m  T^,.      If  you  are  interested  — 

—to  develop  the  ability  to  speak 
effectively  in  public  or  in  everyday 
conversation — to  forge  ahead  twice 
as  fast  as  you  are  now  doing,  read 
Howto  Work  Wonders  With  Words 
now  sent  free. 

_  This  new  booklet,  recently  pub- 
lished, points  the  road  that  thou- 
sands have  followed  to  increase 
quickly  their  earning  power  and 
popularity. 

It  also  explains  how  you  can.  by  a, 
new,  easy  home  study  method,  be- 
come an  outstanding  speaker  anil  conquer  stage  fright; 
timidity  and  fear.  To  read  this  booklet  will  prove  to  be 
an  evening  wellspent. 

Simply  send  name  and  address  and  this  valuable  freo 
booklet  will  besentatonce.  No  obligation. 

NORTH  AMERICAN  INSTITUTE 

3601  Michigan  Ave.,   Dept.  125  2.       Chicago,  Illinois 


Quick  Relief! 

For  rashes  and  all  forms  of  itching,  burn- 
ing, disfiguring  skin  irritations. 

Cu  tie  lira  Ointment 

Price  25c  Sample  free  of  "Cnticura/"'  Dept.  B.  Maiden,  M&ss. 


Taught  by  Meyer  Both 
an  internationally 
'  known  art  organiza- 
tion with  8,000  adver- 
tisers as  active  clients. 
Tins  training — based  on 
30  years'  resultful  experi- 
ence— transforms  ii  defi- 
nite theory  into  defli  in- 
tact. Prepare  in  spare 
time  for  a  career  In  Art — a  fascinating,  lucrative  profes- 
sion open  to  both  men  and  women,  write  for  Illustrated 
hunk  telling  of  our  successful  students 
Meyer  Both  Co. Dept. 31. 20th&Michigan. Chicago, III. 

SUBSCRIBE  FOR  PHOTOPLAY 

Use  Convenient  Subscription   Blank   on  Page  135 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


"ANYBODY'S  GIRL"— Columbia—  From  the 
stor>  by  Jo  Swerling.  Continuity  by  Jo  Swerling. 
Directed  by  Lionel  Barrymore.  The  cast:  Barbara, 
Barbara  Stanwyck;  Eddie,  Monroe  Owsley;  Carlton. 
Ricardo  Cortez;  tars.  Blanchard.  Blanche  Friderici; 
Molh:  Sally  Blane;  Eunice.  Phyllis  Crane;  Mrs.  Carl- 
ton. Olive  Tell;  Smith.  Victor  Potel;  Jones.  Al  Hill; 
Leo.  Jack  ByTon;  Casey.  Pat  Harmon;  Nancy.  Martha 
Sleeper;  Ralph  Clark.  David  Newell;  Wilson,  Sidney 
Bracey;  Mrs.  Crane.  Aggie  Herring;  Sir.  Crane,  Harry 
Todd;  Yvonne,  Peggy  Doner. 

"BACHELOR  FATHER,  THE"— M-G-M. — 
From  the  story  by  Edward  Childs  Carpenter.  Scena- 
rio by  Laurence  E.  Johnson.  Directed  by  Robert  Z. 
Leonard.  The  cast:  Tony  Flags,  Marion  Da  vies; 
John  Ashley.  Ralph  Forbes;  Sir  Basil  Winterlon.  C. 
Aubrey  Smith;  Geoffrey  Trent,  Ray  Milland;  Dick 
Berney,  Guinn  Williams;  Doctor  MacDonald,  David 
Torrence;  Mrs.  Webb,  Doris  Lloyd;  Bolton,  Edgar 
Norton;  Maria  Credaro,  Nena  Quartaro;  Larkin, 
Halliwell  Hobbes;  Mrs.  Berney,  Elizabeth  Murray; 
Mr.  Cresuell,  James  Gordon. 

"BLUE  ANGEL,  THE"  —  UFA-Par amount.— 
From  a  novel  by  Heinrich  Mann.  Adapted  by  Robert 
Liebmann.  Directed  by  Josef  Von  Sternberg.  The 
cast:  Prof.  Immanuel  Rath,  Emil  Jannings;  Lola 
Frohlich.  Marlene  Dietrich;  Kiepert,  Kurt  Gerron; 
Cusle.  Rosa  Valetti;  Mazeppa,  Hans  Albers;  Director 
of  the  School,  Eduard  V.  \\ interstein;  The  Clown, 
Reinhold  Bernt;  The  Beadle,  Hans  Roth;  Angst.  Rolf 
Mailer;  Lohmann.  Rolant  Varno;  Ertzum.  Karl  Bal- 
haus;  Goldstaub,  Robert  Klein-Lork;  The  Publican, 
Karl  Huszar-Puffy;  The  Captain,  Wilhclm  Diegel- 
mann;  The  Policeman.  Gerhard  Bienert;  Publican's 
Wife,  Use  Furstenberg. 

"CHISELERS  OF  HOLLYWOOD"— Willis 
Kent  Production. — Screen  play  by  Ida  May  Park. 
Directed  by  William  O'Connor.  The  cast:  Roxanne 
King.  Phyllis  Barrington;  Virginia  King.  Rita  LaRoy; 
Miles  Gaynor.  Edmund  Breese;  Beth  King.  Sheila 
Manners;  Barry  Gaynor,  Donald  Reed;  Deputy, 
Charles  Delaney. 

"CIMARRON"— Radio  Pictures.— From  the  story 
by  Edna  Ferber.  Adapted  by  Howard  Estabrook. 
Directed  by  Wesley  Ruggles.  The  cast:  Yancey 
Cravat,  Richard  Dix;  Sabra  Cravat,  Irene  Dunne; 
Dixie  Lee,  Estelle  Tavlor;  Felice  Venable.  Nance 
O'Neil;  The  Kid.  William  Collier.  Jr.;  Jess  Rickey, 
Roscoe  Atcs;  Sol  Levy.  George  E.  Stone;  Lon  Younti~. 
Stanley  Fields;  Louie  Heffner.  Robert  McWade;  Mrs. 
Tracy  Wyalt,  Edna  Mae  Oliver;  Mr.  Bixby.  Frank 
Darien;  Isaiah,  Eugene  Jackson;  Ruby  Big  Elk  (eld- 
est). Dolores  Brown;  Ruby  Big  Elk  (younger),  Gloria 
Vonic;  Murch  Rankin.  Otto  Hoffman;  Gral  Gotch, 
William  Orlamond ;  Louis  Venable.  Frank  Beal;  Donna 
Cravat  (eldest),  Nancy  Dover;  Donna  Cravat  (young), 
Helen  Parrish;  "Cim"  (eldest).  Donald  Dilloway; 
"Cim"  (younger).  Junior  Johnson;  "Cim"  (youngest), 
Douglas  Scott:  Yancey  Junior,  Reginald  Streeter; 
Felice  Junior,  Lois  Jane  Campbell;  Aunt  Cassandra, 
Ann  Lee;  Dabney  Venable,  Tyrone  Brereton;  Cousin 
Bella,  Lillian  Lane;  Jouett  Goforth,  Henry  Rocque- 
more;  Armin'a  Greenwood,  Nell  Craig;  Pat  Leary, 
Robert  MacKenzie. 

"COMMAND  PERFORMANCE.  THE"— Tif- 
fany-Cruze  Productions. — From  the  play  by  C. 
Stafford  Dickens.  Screen  play  by  Gordon  Rigby  and 
Maude  Fulton.  Directed  by  Walter  Lang.  The  cast: 
Prince  Alexis.  Neil  Hamilton;  Peter  Fedor.  Neil  Hamil- 
ton; Princess  Katerina.  Una  Merkel;  Queen  Elinor  of 
Serblandt,  Helen  Ware;  Queen  Elizabeth.  Vera  Lewis; 
King  Nicholas,  Albert  Gran;  Vellenherg.  Lawrence 
Grant;  Lydia,  Thelma  Todd;  Masoch.  Burr  Mcintosh; 
Blondel.  Murdock  MacQuarrie;  Boyer,  William  von 
Brincken. 

"CRIMINAL  CODE,  THE"— Columbia.— From 
the  play  by  Martin  Flavin.  Adapted  by  Fred  Niblo, 
Jr.  Directed  by  Howard  Hawks.  The  cast:  Warden 
Brady.  Walter  Huston;  Robert  Graham.  Phillips 
Holmes;  Mary  Brady.  Constance  Cummings;  Gertrude 
Williams.  Mary  Doran;  Gleason.  DeWitt  Jennings; 
M  Manus,  John  Sheehan;  Galloway,  Boris  Karloff; 
Fales.  Otto  Hoffman;  Runch.  Clark  Marshall:  Nettle- 
ford,  Arthur  Hoyt;  Katie.  Ethel  Wales;  Dr.  Rinewulf, 
Nicholas  Soussanin;  Spelvin,  Paul  Porcasi;  Detective 
Doran.  Janus  Guilfoyle;  Detective  Doherty.  Lee  Phelps; 
Lew,  Hugh  Walker;  Reporter,  Jack  Vance. 

"DANCERS.  THE"— Fox.— From  the  play  by 
Gerald  Du  Maurier  and  Viola  Tree.  Adapted  by 
Edwin  Burke.  Directed  by  Chandler  Sprague.  The 
cast:  Diana.  Luis  Moran;  Berwin,  Walter  Byron; 
Tony,  Phillips  Holmes;  Maxine.  Mae  Clarke;  Archie, 
Tyrrell  Davis;  Aunt  Emily.  Mrs.  Patrick  Campbell. 

"DAWN  TRAIL.  THE" — Columbia. — From  the 
storv  by  Fori  ?t  Sheldon.  Adapted  by  John  Thomas 
Neville.  Directed  by  Christy  Cabanne.  The  cast: 
Larry,    Buck    Jones;    June,    Miriam    Seegar;    Mart, 

Charles  Morton;  Denton,  Erville  Alderson;  Amos, 
Ed  Le  Saint;  Skeets,  Charles  Kins;  Cock  Eye.  Hank 
M.mn;  Mac,  Vester  Pcgg;  Steve,  Slim  Whittaker; 
Charles  Brinley;  Maria.  Inez  Gomez;  Settler, 
Bob  Burns:  Henchman.  Robert  Fleming;  Molly, 
Violet  Axzelle;  Jim  Anderson.  Buck  Conner;  Hank. 
Jaak  Curtis. 


"DEVIL  TO  PAY.  THE"— UNITED  Artists-Sam 
GOLDWYN. — From  the  story  by  Frederick  Lonsdale. 
Adapted  by  Benjamin  Glazer.  Directed  by  George 
Fitzmaurice.  Tin  cast:  Willie  Leeland.  Ronald  Col- 
man;  Dorothy  Hope.  Loretta  Young;  -Susan  Leeland. 
Florence  Britton;  Lord  Leeland.  Frederick  Kerr;  Mr. 
Hope.  David  Torrence:  Mrs.  Hope,  Mary  1- 
Grand  Duke  Paul.  Paul  Cavanagh;  Arthur  Leeland, 
Crawford  Kent. 

"DEVIL'S  BATTALION.  THE"— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— From  the  story  by  Percival  C.  Wren.  Scena- 
rio by  Paul  Schofield.  Directed  by  Herbert  Brenon. 
The  cast:  Otis  Madison.  Lester  Vail;  John  Gesle. 
Ralph  Forbes;  Ramon.  Don  Alvarado;  Jacob.  Otto 
Matiesen;  Isobal  Brandon.  Loretta  Young;  Mrs. 
Brandon.  Irene  Rich;  Sergeant  Frederick.  Paul  Mi- 
Allister;  The  Emir,  George  Rigas;  The  Angel  of  Death. 
Leni  Stengel;  Col.  LeBaudy,  Hale  Hamilton. 

"EX-MISTRESS"  — Warners.— From  the  sce- 
nario by  Charles  Kenyon.  Directed  by  Rol  Del  Ruth. 
The  cast:  Doree  Macy.  Bebe  Daniels;  Robert  Byrne. 
Ben  Lyon;  John  Thornley,  Lewis  Stone;  Marian 
Moore.  Joan  Blondell;  Consuelo  Byrne.  Natalie  Moor- 
head;  Lionel  Reich.  Albert  Gran;  Miss  Taft,  Virginia 
Sale;  Mrs.  Bennett,  Daisy  Belmore. 

"FAST  AND  LOOSE  "—Paramount.— From  the 
play  by  David  Gray  and  Avery  Hopwood.  Scenario 
by  Preston  Sturges  and  Doris  Anderson.  Directed  by 
Fred  Newmeyer.  The  cast:  Marion  Lenox,  Miriam 
Hopkins;  Henry  Morgan.  Charles  Starrett;  Alice 
O'Neil,  Carole  Lombard;  Bertie  Lenox,  Henry  Wad- 
worth;  Bronson  Lenox,  Frank  Morgan;  Carrie  Lenox. 
Winifred  Harris;  George  Grafton.  Herbert  Yost;  Lord 
Rockingham.  David  Hutcheson;  Millie  Montgomery, 
Ilka  Chase;  Judge  Summers,  Herschel  Mayall. 

" FIGHTING  CARAVANS "— Par amonut—  From 
the  story  by  Zane  Grey.  Screen  play  by  Edward  E. 
Paramore.  Jr.,  Keene  Thompson  and  Agnes  Brand 
Leahy.  Directed  by  Otto  Brower  and  David  Burton. 
The  cast:  Clint  Beimel.  Gary  Cooper;  Felice.  Lily 
Damita;  Bill  Jackson.  Ernest  Torrence;  Lee  Murdock, 
Fred  Kohler;  Jim  Bridger.  Tully  Marshall;  Selh, 
Eugene  Pallette;  Couch.  Roy  Stewart;  Jane,  May 
Boley;  Amos,  James  Farley;  Blacksmith,  James 
Marcus;  Faith,  Eve  Southern;  Gus.  Donald  Mac- 
Kenzie; Charlie.  Sid  Savior;  Barlow.  E.  Allyn  Warren; 
Jeff  Mofftlt.  Frank  (ampeau;  Marshall,  Charles 
\\  inninger;  Renegade,  Frank  Hagney. 

"FOR  THE  LOVE  O"  LIL" — Columbl\.— From 
the  screen  play  by  Dorothy  Howell.  Adaoted  bv 
Bella  Cohen.  Directed  by  James  Tinling.  The  cast: 
Wyn  Huntley.  Jack  Mulhall;  Sandy  Jenkins.  Elliott 
Nugent;  Lit.  Sally  Starr;  Eleanor  Carhvright.  Margaret 
Livingston;  Mr.  Walker.  Charles  Sellon;  Mrs.  Walker. 
Julia  Swayne  Gordon;  Edward O.  Brooks.  Billy  Bevan; 
Mrs.  Gardner,  Claire  Du  Brey;  Chambermaid,  Joan 
Standing. 

"FREE  LOVE"— Universal.— From  the  story 
"  Half  Gods  "  by  Sidney  Howard.  Adapted  by  Edwin 
Knopf.  Directed  by  Hohart  Henley.  The  cast: 
Hope  Ferrier.  Genevieve  Tobin;  Stephen  Ferrier.  Con- 
rad Nagel;  Rush  Bigelow,  Monroe  Owsley;  Helena, 
Bertha  Mann;  Paulene.  Ilka  Chase:  Judge  Sturgis. 
George  Irving;  Dr.  Wolheim.  Reginald  Pasch;  Ada. 
ZaSu  Pitts;  Dennis,  Slim  Summerville;  Butler,  Sidney 
Bracey. 

"GREAT  MEADOW.  THE"— M-G-M.— From 
the  novel  by  Elizabeth  Madox  Roberts.  Adapted  by 
Charles  Brabin  and  Edith  Ellis.  Directed  by  Charles 
Brabin.  The  cast:  Berk  Jarvi*.  John  Mack  Brown; 
Diony  Hall,  Eleanor  Boardman:  Elvira  Jarvis.  Lucille 
La  Verne;  Betty  Hall.  Anita  Louise;  Evan  Muir.  Gavin 
Gordon;  Reuben  Hall.  Guinn  Williams;  Thomas  Hall. 
Russell  Simpson:  Mistress  Hall' Sarah  Padden;  Sally 
Tolliver,  Helen  Jerome  Eddy. 

"HATE  SHIP.  THE" — British  International. 
— From  the  story  by  Bruce  Graeme.  Scenario  by 
Eliot  Stannard.  Directed  by  Norman  Walker.  The 
cast:  Vernon  Wolfe.  Jameson  Thomas.  Sylvia  Paget, 
Jean  Colin;  Count  Boris  Ivanoff.  Henry  Victor;  Roger 
Peel.  Jack  Raine;  Captain  MacDonnell.  Randle  Ayr- 
ton;  Liselte.  Edna  Davies;  Colonel  Paget.  Ivo  Dawson; 
Countess Olga  Karon,  Maria  Minetti;  Arthur  Wardell, 
Carl  Harbord;  Doctor  Saunders.  Allen  Jea>es;  Nigel 
Menzyes.  Charles  Dormer;  Rigby,  Syd  Crossle> ; 
Bullock.  Charlie  Emerald. 

"HOOK.  LINE  AND  SINKER"— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— From  the  story  by  Tim  \\  helan.  Adapted 
by  Tim  Whelan  and  Ralph  Spence.  Directed  bv 
Edward  Chile.  The  cast:  Wilbur  Boswett,  Bert 
Wheeler;  Addington  Gansy,  Rohrt  Woolsey;  Mary 
Marsh.  Dorothy  Lee;  Mrs.  Marsh.  Jobyna  Howland; 
John  BlackveU,  Rail'  Harold.  :  The  Duke  of  Winchester . 
Bill  Davidson:  Duchess  Bessie  Vauessie,  Natalie 
Moorhead:  Bell  Boy.  George  Marion.  Sr. :  House 
Detective,  Hugh  Herbert;  McKay.  Stanley  Fields. 

"INSPIRATION  "—M-G-M— Dialogue  by  Gene 
Markey.  Directed  by  Clarence  Brown.  The  cast: 
Yvonne,  Greta  Garbo;  Andre.  Robert  Montgomery; 
Delval.  Lewis  Stone:  Lulu.  Marjorie  Rambeau; 
Odette.  Judith  Vosselli;  Marthe.  Beryl  Mercer; 
Coutant.  John  Miljan;  Julian  Monlell.  Edwin  Max- 
well; Vignaud,  Oscar  Apfel;  Madeline,  Joan  Marsh; 


Every  advertisement  in  PIIOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


PhOTOPI  w    M  \'\/i-.i     FOR  Fl  .  ,    1931 


Paulint,  Z.  Ma  S 

(  .win    i  Wlliur 

Hoj  i ,  //.j.'.ju..'.  Rli  luird   In. 

"  fUST     Mi. I      III   \V1  N         I 

D'Avi 

Alln  1 1 

C  liaill.il.l. 

VDONNA  OF  nn   STRI  i 

VV   H. 

i 

"MEN    Wl  in.  >i   r    1  w. 


I 


i  >NI  \  SAPS  WORK  "— P  m  the 

plaj  ' 

hi  Knopl. 

ii  .1  Vrlen;  /•' 
rt  Erwin;  i 
-.  Tanner,  C  liar  lie 

mi. 

"PHANTOM     OF     THE     DESERT,     Till:-— 

S\m.i  i  the  st. .rv  by   1 1 .i r r  \    Webb  and 

Carl  I-  Wei  b.    Tl 

■■:.  Starlight ;  Jai  I 

i  .in  Horn,  Eva  Novak; (  'olonel  Van  //.tb,  Jowl 

ii.l;    /'.in    Drnlon,    Edward    Earle;    Nora,    l.il.i 

.  Robert  Walker. 

PRIM  ESS    WD  Till:   PLUMBER,  THE"— 
From  the  stop  bj    Uice  Duer  Miller.    S 

Directed  bj    Alexander 
rles  FarreJl: 
Maureen  O'Sullivan:  Prince  > 
XXI  of  Darilsia,  H.  B.Warner;  Merkl.  Joaepl 
thorne;  Albi  Huron  Von  Krm- 

/vr,  Luden  Prival;  Lord  Worthing,  Murray  Kinnell; 
Miss  r  Hale;  Poon,  Arnold  Lucy. 

"REACHING     FOR     Till-:     MOON"—! 
Artists.  -From   the  Imund   Goulding. 

Additional   dialogue   by    Elsie   Janis.      Directed    by 
Edmund  Goulding.    The  cast;    Larry  Day,  Douglas 

•   Benton,  Bebe  Daniels; 
u.ir.l  Everett  Horton ;  Jim <  ckMulhall; 

Sir    II  .    Claud    Allisti  r; 

....  Walter  Walker;  Kilty,  Jane  Mai 
.  Helen  Jerome  i 

"REDUCING"— M-C-M.— From   the  story   by 
Willard  Mack  and  Beatrice  Banyard.    Continuity  by 
Robert    E.   Hopkins  and  Zelda  Sears.     I1 
Charles  F.  Riesner.     The  cast:     Marie  Truffle.  I 
•r;  Polly  Rochay.  Polly  Moran;  I  ■ 

i  '..lli.-r.  Jr ; 
Luden  I  ittlefiel 

William    Bakewell;   Jrrrv    TrujHt. 
r;  Marty  Truffle,  Jay  Ward. 

"RIGHT    To    LOVE,    THE"— Paramount.— 


IN     II 
U.lll. 

land;  II  illiam  h.< 
"ROY  \l.  BED,  Till 

i 

ell;  / 

l'ri<:    ■  .     I  I  I 

"ROYAL  I-  VMILY  hi    BROADWA,     i 

.in  tin-  pi 

1 1,  in  i 

ild   Korff;  l 
Roj  .1  «.    Stout 
.1/.  Uermoll,   Mm  i 
il.  i  cbel  M 

"SC  VNDAL  SHI  E  I   '  -Param 

well.    The  ■ 
Adams,    Cllve    Bi 
tin,  the  I'u 

the  (  .  1. 1.  n  I. ml.  in  M    .' 

"SOUSLESTOITSDE  PARIS"  ("UND1  RTHE 

ROOFS  <>!•   PARIS")  -T s.   -From  I 

M.  Clair.     Directed  by  M    <  lair.     I 
\lberl    Pre  jean;   Poia,   Pola    111-  r  Imund 

GrevUle;   Fred,  Gaston    Modot;   Bill,   Hill    If. 
.1  Customer,  Paul  Ollivler. 

"TWO  WORLDS" — British  Iktbrnaticwal.— 
Dir. .  ted  bj  Ewald  Andre  Dur>  nt.   The  cast 

Baring;  1 hi  |      n  Longdon; 

neider,   Randlc   Ayrtoi 
Mallard;  Mini,  Constai 
CalthroPi  The  Singer,  Mir  jam  I 

"UNDER  MONTANA  SKIES"— Tiffany  |>ro- 
-From  the  story   by    Fames   K.    Vubrey. 
Directed  by  Richard  Thorpe.    Tl 

Kenneth  Harlan;  Sunshine,  slim  Sumra 
Dorothy  Gulliver;  Blondie,  N'u.i  Marl 
nkins,  Harry  Todd;  Mrs.  Jenkins,  Ethel  Wales; 
Pinky,  Lafe  McKei  ;  Blake,  Christian  J.  Frank. 

"WESTWARD  BOUND"— Syndicate.— From 
the  story  by  Carl  Kruaada.  Directed  by  ll.irr\  W<  bo. 
Tin- .  Buffalo  Hill.  Jr.:  Marge  Halt, 

All-  ii.    Ray;  Frank,  Bu 

Ben  Corbett;  Emma,   Fern   Bmmett;  Jim,  Yakima 
Canutl  ibert  Walker;  Die*,  Tom  London; 

p  ■     Morrison. 

"YELLOW   MASK,   THE"— British    In 
TIONAL.— From  tin-  story  "The  Traitors  Gat 

■    Wallace.     Scenario   by   Val   Valentin)  .     Di- 
by  Harry  Lachman.    The  cast:    MaryTrayne, 

Warwick    War.! 
mple;  Molly.  Winnie  Collins; 
Had. Ion   M  Frank   Cochrane; 

William  Slu;  Wallace  Liijiino; 

ijm  Slipper,  Lupino  Lane. 


Charlotte,  Mich. 

I  am  an  old  l.nlv  whose  family  wore 
frontiersmen  in  Michigan  when  this 
part  of  the  great  Northcentral  West 
was  nothing  but  an  endless  tract  of 
timberlands  and  unbroken  fields; 
when  the  nearest  neighbor  was  a  day's 
ride  away,  or  longer,  by  horseback, 
and  the  traveler  carried  a  rifle  when- 
ever he  went  abroad  because  the 
eerie  howl  of  the  wolf  wasn't  a  pleas- 
ant thing  to  hear.  A  hard  life  withal, 
but  ever  vital  and  adventurous. 

And  every  now  and  then  when  I  sort 
of  get  fed  up  on  steam  heat  and  radios 
and  X-ray  specialists  and  soft  living, 


I  seek  out  a  moving  picture  that  pre- 
sents some  phase  of  American  his- 
tory when  life  was  rough  and  tense 
and  vigorous.  My  eyes  are  still  good 
and  my  old  heart  stout,  and  the  more 
Indians  and  villains  and  hardships 
and  excitement  there  are  in  the  pic- 
ture, the  greater  my  pleasure  and  re- 
action. Give  us  more  stories  of  real 
people  and  events  that  made  Ameri- 
can history  the  forceful,  imperishable 
glory  that  it  is.  Such  pictures  are 
always  stimulating  and  thoroughly 
enjoyable  to  the  old  who  may  have 
actually  lived  them. 

Mrs.  Julia  Bentley 

When  you  wTite  to  a  :  HOTOri.AY  MAGAZINE. 


W&,  lOH'.j  I  .  VSfTl  s 

instantlu 

nif/n   VlAYBELLINE 

•  •  •  •  Brii  ■  oat  til  I  hidden  in 

m"tc        (      •  them  new,  beautiful  brillii 
ten  itins  depth,  i  r  <         i  and  < 

lion.  1  liis  is  \i  ch  ol 

M.i\bcllinc  is  nccJcd.  I  v.  ill 

appear  naturally  darl 

your  eves  will  undergo  t  .rnia- 

tion  hinted  ak>ve  .  .  .  There  I  J  can 

give    you    quite     SO    much    added     bean 

Mavbellirje.  It  is  ttay  and  delightful  to  use  I 
Perfectly  harmlen  ol  course.  Try  Marbelline. 
N  .mi  will  he  amazed  and  delighted  at  the 
difference  ic  will  nuke  in  VOtK  appearance. 
Black  or  Brow  D, Solid  or  Liquid  Mj\  bclline — 75c 

.  .  .  aiul  Iry 

QflayUUn* 

Ore   C/haaotc 

This  delicately  perfumed  cosmetic  butemttj  makes 
the  eves  appear  larger  and  intensely  btttrtitiatl 
It  deepens  the  color  and  imparts  a  wonderful 
brilliance  that  vivifies  the  expression,  at  the 
same  time  giving  new  loveliness  to  all  the  tones 
of  the  complexion. 

Applied  lightly  for  daytime  use  and  with 
somewhat  deeper  shading'  in  the  evening,  the 
four  colors  of  Mavbelline  Eye  Shadow  are  most 
effectively  used  as  follows:  Blue  is  to  be  used  for 
all  shades  of  blue  and  gray  eves;  Brown  for 
hazel  and  brown  eyes;  Black  for  dark  brown  a-  d 
violet  eyes.  Green  mav  be  used  with  eyes  of  all 
colors  and  is  especially  effective  for  eve 
wear.  If  you  would  make  the  most  of 
appearance,  a  thrilling  discovery  awaits  you  in 
Mavbelline  Eye  Shadow.  Incased  in  an  adorably 
dainty  gold-finished  vanity  at  75c. 

^1 1 IfiybolUnc 

C   ychrotc  cJencil 

Nearly  lined,  perfectly  formed  eyebrows 
—  every  woman  desires  them  for  the 
added  expression  they  lend.  They  arc  not 

difficult  to  acquire  with  the  new  ttrle  i 
MsTbcIlinc  Eyebrow  Pencil.  You'll  liLe  thitpe- 
tou'II  rtiel  in  in  *->oothne<s  and  clean 
ea*v  touie.  Purchase  one  for  yourdre«m|;  table  a- 
for  your  purit.  CoIom,  Black  or  Brown,  pr iccJ  at  3Jc 

M\ YBClUVe  rroduc"  msj  he  pir- 

cha«d  at  all  toilet  goods  counter!. 

MAYBELUNXCO..  Chu-ano 

EYELASH   D  A  R  K  E  J."  E  R 
TE    SHADOW     EYEBROW    rltCII 

Crtuteuti  cJjvdiilil'icrsjoi-  lite  O/'PS 


140 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  February,  1931 


This  one  Cssentiol 
Qream 


assists  women 

to  look  years  younger 

TRULY,  Boyer's  Skin  &  Pore  Cleanser  is  the 
one  essential  cream  for  every  woman  who 
knows  that  a  clear,  clean  skin  is  the  first  step  to 
beauty. 

This  utterly  new  cream  liquifies  at  body  heat 
and  penetrates  to  the  depth  of  the  pores,  floating 
out  waste  matter  and  neutralizing  skin-ageing  acids. 
Then  pores  become  sweet  and  clean,  grow  finer, 
and  a  new,  smooth  skin  beauty  begins. 

Never  again  will  you  use  the  heavy,  old-fash- 
ioned creams,  and  you  will  learn  why  women 
who  could  pay  $5.00  for  a  jar  of  cream  really 
prefer  the  75c  jar  of   Boyer's  Skin  &  Pore 

Cleanser.  It  is  guaranteed  not 

to  grow  hair. 

If  your  druggist  cannot  sup- 
ply you,  order  a  75c  jar  from 
2700  South  Wabash  Avenue, 
Chicago.  It  is  guaranteed  to 
please  you. 


BOYER, 

~Jhe  Society  tfaAPurneuA 

Va/uA-  Cnuxjyo 


eauty 

depends  upon  the 

SHAPE 

of  your 


NOSE 


30  DAYS 
HOME   TRIAL 


The  nose,  composed  mostly  of  flesh  and  car- 
tilage, can  be  molded  to  shapely  lines  by 
wearing    the  Anita  Nose  Adjuster,  while 
asleep  or  during  the  day.     It's  the 
quick,  safe,  painless  and  inexpensive 
method.    Results  are  lasting! 

Your  age  doesn't  matter.  Over  87,000  users,  (jfeg 

Doctors  approve  it.  Small  cost.  Moneyback  \ 

GUARANTEE.     Send  for  trial   offer  and  „  ,t 

FREE  BOOKLET.  "The  Nose  and  Its  Shape."  w«  »3» 

ANITA  INSTITUTE,  B28  Anita  Bldg.,  Newark,  N.  J. 


HOTEL 
■XI DY 

South  Carolina  Ave. 

at  the  Boardwalk 
Atlantic  City,  N.  J. 
ATLANTIC  CITY'S  NEWEST 

Centrally  Located  Fireproof  Hotel 

SO"WI    European  American     gp 

a»£.  R.  B.  LUDY,  M.D.  ,T> 


What  Is  This 
Box-Office"? 


u 


[  CO.VTIM  EI)  FROM  PAGE  69  ] 

no  money.  "The  Taming  of  the  Shrew"  was 
that  much  heralded  joint  production  of  Mary 
and  Doug.  That  combination  in  anything 
should  have  been  worth  millions.  It  turned 
out  to  be  worth  little.  Maybe  it  was  Shakes- 
peare's fault. 

Maybe  it  was  Mary's  playing  a  shrewish  wife 
when  the  public  seems  to  perpetually  adore  her 
as  a  child.  Only  one  thing  is  certain.  Even 
though  both  stars  were  delightful,  it  wasn't 
box-office.  Maybe  "Kiki,"  Mary's  new 
picture,  will  be. 

"K.TOT  that  you  can  say  a  picture  is  made  or 
•*■  ^  fails  because  of  stars.  Fox  made  a  sub- 
marine picture,  one  of  the  finest  things  it  has 
everdone.  It  was  virile,  dramatic,  heroic.  Ayear 
or  so  previous  Mr.  Ernest  Hemingway,  a  very 
popular  writer,  had  written  a  most  successful 
book  called,  "Men  Without  Women."  Fox 
figured  that  as  a  knockout  title.  It  suited  their 
picture. 

The  picture  did  have  some  women  in  it,  but 
the  main  scenes  were  under  sea  in  a  submarine, 
a  place  where  girls  rarely  go. 

So  Fox  paid  Hemingway  five  hundred  dollars 
to  use  his  title  on  their  picture.  And  it  stopped 
the  picture  cold. 

In  vain  was  the  film  advertised  as  studded 
with  femininity. 

In  vain  did  the  lobbies  of  the  theaters  playing 
it  use  stills  showing  the  correct  he-and-she  love 
scenes. 

Said  John  K.  Public,  "Men  Without  Wo- 
men?   Let's  go  see  Clara  Bow." 

The  most  successful  picture  Warner  Brothers 
made  last  year  was  "Gold  Diggers  of  Broad- 
way," full  of  wine,  women,  song  and  Techni- 
color. The  hit  of  the  proceedings  was  Winnie 
Lightner. 

As  Photoplay  pointed  out  some  months 
back,  Winnie  wowed  'em.  But  Warners  put 
Winnie  in  some  other  pictures  and  she  didn't 
noticeably  wow  'em. 

Teams  sometimes  mean  a  lot  at  the  box- 
office.  Fox's  strongest  box-office  bets  are  Far- 
rell  and  Gaynor  in  combination,  and  Eddie 
Lowe  and  Vic  McLaglen  playing  opposite  one 
another.  Janet  did  two  pictures  without 
Charlie.  Tbey  weren't  so  hot  from  the  book- 
keeping standpoint.  Neither  were  Farrell's 
solosr  But,  while  Fox  has  no  individual  star  it 
ranks  high,  save  Will  Rogers,  it  smiles  happily 
over  "Sunny  Side  Up,"  Janet's  and  Charlie's 
picture  that  is  the  studio's  most  successful 
product  of  last  season.  The  year  before  it  was 
McLaglen's  and  Lowe's  "The  Cock-Eyed 
World." 

Warners  doesn't  believe  much  in  stars.  Al 
Jolson  made  talkies  a  hit  with  "The  Jazz 
Singer"'  and  made  millions  with  "The  Ringing 
Fool." 

None  of  his  other  pictures  has  done  nearly 
so  well. 

So  he's  shifting  studios. 

YET,  once  again  you  can't  dope  it  out.  Into 
this  starlcssouttit  entered  George  Arliss.  He 
made  a  picture  called  "Disraeli,"  which  is  not 
only  a  meaningless  title  to  many  people  but  a 
word  difficult  to  say.  Its  story  was  about  a 
peculiarly  old,  out-of-date  English  political 
situation.  By  all  laws  that  picture  should  have 
died  in  the  Warner  Brothers'  cutting  room. 
Instead  it  has  made  money,  and  has  won  the 
Photoplay'  medal,  an  Academy  prize,  and 
other  awards. 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  believes  in  nothing 
else  but  stars.  A  star  to  Metro  is  like  another 
wedding  ring  to  Peggy  Joyce.  They  can't  get 
enough  of  them.  Metro  picks  them  young 
and  trains  them  handsomely. 

Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  euaranteed. 


CO 

Checked 
quickly 

so  you  can   Of  N 
go  out  again   • 


Why  stay  at  home  nursing 
a  cold  when  it's  so  easy  to 
check  it  with  Grove's  Laxa- 
tive BROMO  QUININE 
Tablets.  The  quinine  tonic 
builds  up  body  resistance, 
while  the  comfortable  laxa- 
tive throws  off  accumulated 
poisons.  You  must  have 
both  to  check  colds  quickly. 


College  and  sports 
women  rely  on  these 
tablets  to  check  colds 
and  simple  headaches. 
30c  at  any  drug  store. 


GrOVe'S   Laxative 

•BROMO* 
QUININE 

Table  ts 


You    Can't    Hide 
FAT  HIPS 

Fat  Is  not  healthy  and  cannot  be 
beautiful.  The  greatest  physical  per- 
fection of  any  people  was  attained  by 
the  ancient  Greeks,  and  was  developed 
through  the  art  of  massage. 

Regular  massage  intelligently  prac- 
ticed will  free  you  from  excess  fat 
much  quicker  and  with  more  safety  to 
your  health  than  freak  diets,  danger- 
ous pills  and  violent  exercises. 

Have  you  overstout  HIPS, 
THIGHS.  LEGS,  ANKLES,  or  a 
DOUBLE  CHIN,  then  send  for  this 
book,  "PERFECTION  OF  FORM" 
— and  learn  how  to  reduce  by  simple 
massage  in  the  privacy  of  your  home. 

Just  send   your   name 
and  address  (write  plain- 
ly) and  we  will  mall  it  to 
you  on  receipt  of .  . . . 
FAIRMONT  PUBLISHING   CO. 
35  West  32nd  Street  Suite  1209 

New  York 


10c 


PHOTOS 
ENLARGED 

SIZE  6  x  lO  INCHES 


We-likc  B 
photo  < 
mcnl    at 


full  le 


ie  pr 


nth, 

i.  croups. 


48c 

EACH 


boat  fa 

bindsc'ipr*.  or  enlarge" 
any  eroup  picture.  Safe  return 
of  your  original  photo  Guar* 
a  meed. 

Send  NO  MONEY 

,Iu«t  mail  photo  or  pnanshot  (any 
cue)  and  within  a  week  rou  wffl 
i  life-tike 
enlargement  nixeSxlO  guaranteed 
fadeless.  Pay  postman  4£e  pitia 
a  few  eents  pontage,  or  wnd  50c 
with  order  and  we  pay  poet&ce. 
— send  your  photo  today. 


Take  advantare  of  this  am  stint  offer 


Tjf7,V      A13*T  538  So.  Dearborn 

I\.IL^V    /*IV  1      Dept    140>     CHICAGO,  ILL. 


fttf 


Make  money  taking  pictures.  Photo. 
graphs  in  big  demand.  Commercial 
Photography  also  pays  big  money. 
Learn  quickly  at  home  in  spare  time. 
No  experience  necessary.  Write  today 
for  new  free  book.  Opportunities  in 
Modern  Photography.  American 
School  ol  Photography.  Dept.  1252 
3601  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago. 


Photoplay  Magazine  i"*  Febbuaby, 


141 


Ii  1  rely  upon 

ai   the  l»>\  of!  1  inord 

tnd    Bill   ll.unr-      Novarro  I  back 

tremendously  lincc  talkkt     Gilbert  remaini 
in  doubt. 

Finally,  what  about  the  1  riiiis,  the 

1  ritica  that  you  read   ••  row  Ii  about? 
Do  they  influent  e  the  boi  oftw  e '  I  be>  'I"  not, 
for  tin- 1  riti>  who  will  proclaim  Charles  '  Buddy) 
Rogers  a  great  actor  is  yet  tob<  found 
ink  Charles  terrible  and 

d  his  pi<  tures  .is  tripe  and 
■  bat 

And  what  is  the  an  wei      H<  ts  one  of  Para 
mount's  best  bets 

Panmount  also  baa  Jack  Oakie  under  con- 
ti.ut.  It  it  wen  humanly  possible  for  J.uk  t<> 
work  iii  nine  pictures  .it  once,  Paramount 
would  have  him  do  so.  Be  ts  the  real  star 
t.ilkits  have  made,  and  the  demand  fox  him  is 

How  long  the  Oakk  vogue  will  last  nobody 

knows,  but  it  is  K«»i"-'  faster  than  a  fin  in  an 
oil  field  now. 

Paramount  is  ■  lover  <>f  stars,  ti*>.  and  lias 
often  been  teased  about  its  tendency  to  make 

pictures    with    backgrounds   of    Paris, 

York  ami  London. 
One  of  Paramount'a  biggest  box-office  hits 
last  year  was  "  1  'lie  Virginian,"  ■  Western,  with 
i  Sooner. 

ALL  of  which  proves  just  one  thin";.  It  is  the 
fans  who  make  the  pictures,  who  control 
the  stars  and  who  terrorize  the  producers     You 

s[K'iul  your  money  and  you  take  your  choice. 

ki«ht  now  Garbo,  Shearer,  Crawford,  Haines. 
How,  Rogers,  Oakie,  ChatterUm.  Nancy  Car 
roll,   Hebe   Daniels,   l'arrell  and  (iaynor,  Dick 

Barthelmesa,   Lowe  and   hfcLaglen.  are  the 

you  will  go  to  see  almost  regardless. 
Swanson,  GObert  and  Richard  Dix  you'll  go  to 
see  111  good  pictures  and  Stay  away  from  in 
droves  m  bad  pictures  you  pay  your  money 
and  you  take  your  choice.  And  therein  lies  the 
whole  box-office  story. 


Tenafly,  N.  J. 

I  am  a  foreigner,  having  received 
my  education  abroad.  Upon  my 
arrival  here  several  years  ago  I  came 
to  work  tor  what  you  may  call  "cheap, 
common  people."  Their  words,  "get 
the  hell,"  "go  to  the  devil,"  and  "you 
dirty  bum"  didn't  get  me  very  far.  I 
could  not  speak  in  public  or  in  front 
cf  friends. 

I  couldn't  learn  the  words  in 
English  very  well  and  when  I  did 
talk,  people  laughed  at  me. 

I  was  mostly  alone  and  mostly  in 
the  kitchen  as  my  work  kept  me  in- 
side. A  person  who  works  in  a  kit- 
chen cannot  get  very  far  meeting 
only  the  ice  man  and  delivery  boys. 

Since  the  past  year  I  am  no  longer 
afraid  to  speak  in  public.  Not  long 
ago  I  went  for  a  visit  to  my  old  neigh- 
borhood. My  friends  were  amazed 
and  gasped,  and  when  they  asked 
how  it  happened,  I  just  said,  "It's  the 
talking  pictures!"  They  laughed, 
but  I  let  them  laugh.  I  wasn't  a  bit 
hurt,  for  it's  the  truth. 

The  talking  pictures  have  given 
me  a  new  life.  They  have  helped 
me  in  every  way.  They  have 
taught  me  how  to  speak,  how  to  pro- 
nounce vhe  words  and  have  given  me 
a  new  education.  In  fact,  they  have 
been  just  like  a  school  to  me. 
Marie  Diller 


To  those  who  think 
Learning  Music  ' 


I'.-rhaiM    f  ""   think    ' 
taking  » 


doae  hi  medicine 


\*  fur  ii*  \ 

et  lung  practiot  hours  »itii  thsii 
«..ik    .  ind  expanai 

.  it  witn. 

\  on  bars  no  alibis  whataoaver  1 
making  your  *i«rt  toward  muaiea]  tend 

!,.!»     ! 

For,  tlirinllfli  11  iii«-|Iiim1  tliut  ri-niu. 
Ii.irr.l.iiu    11111I    i\tr:iviiK:ilii"i.    Irum     music 
it  n   to  play   y.nir 

fiivurito  instrument  entirely  at  noma    without  ■  (ir ■  - 
in  bait  tin-  usual  time    al  a  In 

ill    till)    U-Slllll 

Easy  As  Can   Be 

Tin    [  »i  by  mail  from  tin-  !■ 

Behool  "i    Music       ["hej   eonalal   oi  oomplete 
printed  instructions,  diaanuna,  and  all  the  muaii 
mill     You're  iii'vit  in  imt  watar     First  jrou  an  (old 
bow  a  thiol  is  done,    Then  11  piotura  ihom  you  bow, 
tbell   yon   00   it    viiirsili    and   hear   it.      No   private 

raaohiT  oouM  make  it  ulaaiai  or  mm 

iiv.t  000.000  people  learned  to  play  tliin  modern 
way — and  found  it  eav<y 
as  A-ll-C  1'orKit  that 
old-faahioned  idea  that 
you  need  ipeeial  talent 
Ju.-t  read  the  list  01  in- 
struments in  the  panel, 

deride    which    nii> 
want  toplay,  and  thl 
Behool    will    do    the    rest. 
No  matter  which  initru- 
ment  you  choose,  the  cost 


is  hard- 

I    of    a    ci   11  Cka^aV 


in  I'ltch  case  1 

— JUKI  a  few   cents        ^. 


Send  for  Our  Fr«c 

Book  «nd    Demon- 

illation   Lcnon 


If  you  really  d/i  want  to  play  ynur  favorlti 


nil  nut    all'l  in. ill   tin 
ami  I  ri-e  I  n  ■ 

derful  method  tuiiy  .1 

'1    lean    In    |il:i] 

mppUed  ■  in  I.  nnnrtii 

Music.  ,,i,J  Brunswle 


sl.ln.-  f..r  1 


ur  I  1 


'.I'k' 


■Si.rk  <  H> 


LEARN   TO    PLAY 

BY   NOTE 

Mandolin       Saxophone 
Piano  Clio 

Organ  Ukulili 

Violin  Cornit 

Banjo  Trombona 

Or   Any    Othar   Instru- 
ment 


U.  S.  SCHOOL  OF   MUSIC. 

562   Brunt*, ck   Bids  .    Now  York   City 

Bend  me  ynur  aiiiazini;  free  ix>nk  "Music  Lessons  in 
Your  Own  Home. '  wito Inuoduction  b]  Ur  f  r.mk  <  rane; 
also  Free  Demonstration  Lesson,  'inn  does  not  put  me 
under  any  obligation. 


N'ame 


Address , 

Instrument t  hi  ■ 


Instant  Foot  Relief 


Keeps 
Shoes 
Shapely 


Hides 
Large 
Joints 


discherProtector 


You  cannot  be  wrll-dreaAed  If  yournhoca  arc  unaifthtlv. 
The  Fischer  Protector  instantly  HIDES  and  RELII  \  ES 
bunions  and  large  Joints.  Wear  In  any  shoo  In  jroQT 
rt-k'nlar  size — outside  <>r  under  stocking.  Bold  f--r  over  20 
jrars  by  shoe  dealers,  druggists,  and  department  stores. 

Free  Trial  Offer:  Money  back  if  not  instantly  re- 
lieved. Write,  giving  shoe  size  and  for  which  foot. 

FISCHER  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

P.  O.  Box  383,  Dept.  35,  Milwaukee.  Wis. 


8 


"Tint 
GRAY 
HAIR" 

Prlnir  back  t"  unsightly  gray. 
fail«l  or  bleached  hair  Its 
original  cilnr  and  beauty.  In- 
stantly, easily  Impart  any 
81  a'le  fpun  lightest  blond  to 
deepest  black.   Just  comb  thru 

irv  Brownai 

by    i  ■  tor    ever     is 

ji-.irs      Satisfaction    i-mran- 
luil      Absolutely  harmless  to 
hair,  sealp  or  t-kiii.    A 1  all  deal- 
er-.    <  ir  s.nil  !(«•  Inr  trial  bottle. 
Kenton  Pharmacal  Co..  o»,i    F.  10 
Brownatone   Bldg.,  Covington,  Ky. 
Canadian  Address;  Windsor,  Ontario 

ROWNATONE 

GUARANTEED     HARMLESS 


PIN  MONEY  FOR  OUR  READERS 

PHOTOPLAY  now  offers  its  readers  the  opportu- 
nity to  convert  their  spare  time  into  real  money  by 
becoming  its  subscription  representatives  in  the  town 
or  community  in  which  they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of  Photoplay,  will  be  quick  to 
realize  the  money-making  possibilities  this  offer  affords 
you.  Your  friends — your  neighbors — in  fact,  all  the 
homes  in  your  community — are  prospective  subscribers 
for  Photoplay.  Who,  today,  is  not  interested  in 
moving  pictures — the 
chief  recreation  of  the 
American  public? 

Be  the  first  in  your  com- 
munity to  take  advantage  of 
this  offer,  and  get  started  at 
once.  The  coupon  or  a  post 
cardwill  bring  further  details. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 

Dept.  RE-2.  919  No.  Michigan    Ave.. 

Chicaco,  111. 

I  am  interested  in  your  money-makine  offer 
to  your  readers.    Send  me  the  details  at  once. 

Name 

Address 

City State 


Wben  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  rilOTOrt-AT  MAGAZINE. 


M 


ore 


M 


ovie 


H 


eresy 


/ 


JUST  when  movie  lovers  had  gone  out  of  fashion  and  Mr. 
Whitehot  Pash  had  bitten  his  last  ear,  along  came  a  young 
man  who  could  conjure  the  love  illusion  without  the  snort- 
ings  of  the  hearty  osculation  school. 

The  lady  fans  relaxed  in  their  seats — bought  so  dearly  with  a 
sinkful  of  luncheon  dishes,  and  sighed.  Here  at  last  was  a  movie 
lover  who  could  be  articulate  without  being  nonsensical. 

Mr.  Jesse  Lasky  heard  the  repercussion  of  those  sighs.  Stand- 
ing before  a  convention  of  his  sales- 
men not  long  ago,  he  said:  "Gen- 
tlemen, Paramount  won't  let  you 
down.  Last  year  we  brought  you 
a  new  star,  Nancy  Carroll.  Today 
we  bring  you  Fredric  March!" 

And  Mr.  Fredric  March 
wriggled  in  his  seat  and  prayed 
that  he  hadn't  heard  aright. 

He  doesn't  want  to  be  a  star. 

He  doesn't  want  to  be  a  matinee 
idol. 

He  doesn't  want  to  be  the  great 
lover. 

But  the  fans  have  precipitated 
Paramount's  decision.  For  months 
his  popularity  has  been  growing. 
With  "Laughter"  and  "The  Royal 
Family  of  Broadway  "  it  matured. 
And  Mr.  March  will  be  a  star  in 
spite  of  his  fervent  wish  to  duck  it. 

"  Stardom  is  just  an  uneasy  seat 
on  the  top  of  the  tricky  toboggan," 
lamented  Mr.  March.  "Being  a 
star  is  merely  perching  at  the  head 
of  the  down  grade.  A  competent 
featured  player  can  last  a  lifetime. 
A  star,  a  year  or  two. 

"There's  all  that  agony  of  find- 
ing suitable  stories,  keeping  in 
character,  maintaining  illusion. 
Then  the  undignified  position  of 
hanging  on  while  your  popularity 
is  declining.  No.  I'd  rather  be  an 
adequate  support  than  the  star  of 
any  picture!" 

FREDDIE  was  wearing  maroon 
pajamas  and  a  dark  brown  out- 
look. He  just  had  finished  making 
"The  Royal  Family  of  Broad- 
way," a  story  he  enjoys. 

He  was  really  distressed  to  find 
himself  endowed  with  a  romantic 
appeal  for  the  movie  fans.  And 
whether  he  was  working  at  it  or 

not,  he  certainly  reacted  with  a  good  imitation  of  a  man  with 
slim  romantic  appeal.     Brisk.  Businesslike. 

Very  reluctantly,  for  he  is  sensitive  about  such  things,  I 
asked  him  how  he  accounted  for  his  quick  flowering  into  the 
talkies'  great  lover. 

"I  have  a  theory  about  screen  love-making,"  he  confessed. 
"  Intensity  on  the  stage  or  on  the  screen  produces  such  a  violent 
nervous  reaction  the  audience  must  laugh.  This  is  particularly 
strong  when  the  hero  must  put  his  fervor  into  words. 

"In  silent  pictures  love  scenes  could  be  long  drawn  out- 
intimate  and  grave.    But  with  talk — ! 

"What  possible  dialogue  could  lovers  use  which  wouldn't 
sound  absurd  to  a  thcaterful  of  people!  They  couldn't  heave 
sighs  and  repeat  'I  love  you.  I  adore  you,'  indefinitely.  An 
audience  would  be  convulsed. 

"You  don't  see  tempestuous  love  scenes  on  the  stage.  You 
no  longer  see  them  in  the  movies. 

"The  play  itself  must  tell  the  love  story.  A  look  exchanged 
between  two  characters  can  be  more  eloquent  than  any  love 


Horrors! 
doesn't    wa  n  t 
talkie 


Fredric  March 
be  a 
all! 


to 
star     at 


By 
Paul  Jarvis 


scene.  The  writer  and  the  direc- 
tor build  the  romance.  The  actors 
have  very  little  to  do  with  it. 

"No  actor  can  be  better  than 
his  role.  No  actor  can  be  better 
than  his  director.  Or  than  the 
author  of  his  lines." 

This  speech  was  heresy  from  an 
actor.  But  the  new  matinee  idol 
blandly  continued. 


I 


Fredric  March  in  a  jolly  mood.    He's  evi- 
dently forgotten  that  he's  fated  to  give  up 
the  gay  life  of  a  leading  man  for  the  woes 
and  burdens  of  stardom 


HAPPENED  to  have  been 
fortunate  in  having  some  very 
good  roles.  I  had  splendid  ones  in 
'Laughter'  and  in  'The  Royal 
Family  of  Broadway.'  Any  actor 
could  have  played  them." 

Possibly  any  actor  could  have 
played  them,  but  the  modest 
March  played  them  so  well  his 
fan  mail  is  taxing  the  Astoria  post 
office  and  the  exhibitors  are 
squealing  for  more  March. 

And  to  think  he  might  have 
been  a  banker! 

He  went  into  banking  when  he 
left  college,  didn't  like  it,  decided 
to  try  the  stage  which  fascinated 
him.  His  banking  training  opened 
the  way,  oddly.  He  posed  as  suc- 
cessful business  men  in  ads.  Fi- 
nally he  got  a  stock  job.  In  stock 
he  met  Florence  Eldridge.  They 
married.  Their  work  took  them 
to  the  Coast,  where  Miss  Eldridge 
played  in  movies,  March  played  in  the  stage  production  of  "  The 
Royal  Family." 

His  cleverness  in  that  smart  comedy  won  him  a  trial  at  the 
films.  He  made  a  strong  impression  in  his  first  film,  Clara 
Bow's  "  The  Wild  Party."  He  was  the  college  professor,  whose 
ability  to  suggest  that  he  was  intelligent  enough  to  be  a  college 
professor  didn't  affect  his  romantic  appeal. 

HE  affects  none  of  the  folderols  of  movie  heroism.  He  answers 
the  telephone  without  putting  on  a  Japanese  accent  to  de- 
clare that  Mr.  March  isn't  at  home.  He  apologizes  for  his  maroon 
pajamas.  His  best  friend  is  an  insurance  broker.  He  shares 
with  Mrs.  March  the  ambition  to  retire  ultimately  to  a  cozy 
Connecticut  farm. 

And  he  expresses  the  belief  that  movie  actors  are  just  like 
groceries — goods  to  be  sold  from  the  studio  shelves.  He  doesn't 
want  to  be  the  big  window  display!  Just  a  nice,  comfortable, 
staple  grocery  for  which  there  is  consistent  enough  demand  to 
some  day  materialize  the  March  ambition. 


Ccllllciy    IlilS    Imm»1I    (€»%l*»il    €111*1 


ii|»|MOird   toy  7!i  of     %iii«*i  i«  €tTh   uio«+i 


Ollli  ■■**■■!     €l«*I  ltlfl.il  I  olo^.Hls 


■  IO     4»tll4     I      <OI!D|llr\IOII     *»Oal|l 

ever  ii«id  «•■■«  ■■ in.ihi r«»«i 

cipproi  •■!  Irwin  ili«-<-«- 
!»!■>«»■«  ISM 


Ami  /'</  like  to  be  sure  von  r«-;il ix«-  something 
important       that    this   approval    of   Camas 
cornea  from  the  only  real  complexion  authori 
lies:  licensed  physicians  who  have  specialized 
in  the  care  and  treatment  of  the  -kin. 

After  careful  testa  on  all  the  different  kinds 
nf  skin,  '■'■>  of  the  mosl  eminent  dermatologists 
in  America  unanimously  recommended  soap 
and  water  as  a  necessarj  part  of  akin  care.  Ami 
they  gave  Camay  the  highest  approval  as  .1 
proper  soap  for  even  the  ino-i  delicate  com- 
plexions. 

If  you'd  like  special  help  and  complexion 
advice,  write  for  my  free  booklet  "Face  Your 
WorUl  with  Loveliness."  Just  address  me  at 
Dopt.  YV-21,  609  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  City. 


l4-2i&"-    ^Loasi — 


What  is  ;i  ilcrmaiolo^isl  ? 

The  title  of  dermatologist  properly  belongs  only  to 
registered  physicians  who  have  been  licensed  to 
practice  medicine  and  who  have  adopted  the  science 
of  dermatology  (the  care  of  the  skin]  as  their  special 
province. 

The  reputable  physician  is  the  only  reliable  au- 
thority for  scientific  advice  upon  the  care  and  treat- 
ment of  the  skin. 

I  have  personally  examined  the  signed  comments 
from  73  leading  dermatologists  who  have  approved 
the  composition  and  cleansing  action  of  Camas 
Soap.    1  certify  not  only  to  the  high  standing  of 

these    physicians,    hut    also    to    their    approval    a* 

stated  in  this  advertisement, 

M.  I).  / 

(The  "s  trading  dermatologist*  «l»>  approved  Camay  wrr.- 
■sleeted  by  l>r.  Pnaey  »lm,  fur  Hi  years,  baa  been  Ifae  editor  ol 
the  official  journal  ol  American  dermatology.) 


CAMAY   [IIIIIU   11L1T   1.-%,   C1I1IIA]  ■»   A   PROCTER   &    I.IHIIII     «»0%P-10c   /%.    C  %■« 


%\ 


SOMT 


ISTINCT 
IBUTION 


// 


Everyone  knows  that  sunshine  mel- 
lows -that's  why  TOASTING  includes  the  use  of  the  Ultra 
Violet  Ray.  LUCKY  STRIKE -the  finest  cigarette  you  ever 
smoked,  made  of  the  finest  tobaccos  —the  Cream  of  the 
Crop  -THEN -"IT'S  TOASTED."  Everyone  knows  that  heat 
purifies  and  so  TOASTING  removes  harmful  irritants  that 
cause  throat  irritation  and  coughing.  No  wonder  20,679 
physicians  have  stated  LUCKIES  to  be  less  irritating! 


Says 

AUGUST 
HECKSCHER 

Noted  Philanthropist 

Chairman  of  the  Heckscher  Founda- 
tion for  Children;  President  Child 
Welfare  Committee  of  America 

Director: 
Empire  Trust  Company 
Crucible  Steel  Companv 

"The  most  laudable  service  that  any 
industry  can  render  is  the  attempt 
to  benefit  its  patrons.  That  is  the 
cardinal  principle  of  philanthropy. 
And  so,  interested  as  I  always  am  in 
modern  developments,  I  consider 
that  your  use  of  the  Ultra  Violet  Ray 
in  your  Toasting  of  LUCKY  STRIKE 
is  a  distinct  contribution  of  tvhich 
the  public  will  whole-heartedly  ap- 
prove." 


t* 


** 


It's  toasted 

Your  Throat  Protection  —  against  irritation  —  against  cough 

Consistent  with  its  policy  of  laying  the  facts  before  the  public  The  American  Tobacco  Company  has  invited  Mr   August  Heckscher  to  review  the  reports 
of   the  distinguished  men   who  have  witnessed    LUCKY   STRIKE'S   famous  Toasting    Process    The  statement   of   Mr     Heckscher  appears   on    this   page. 

£  1930,  The  American  Tobacco  Co..  Mfrs. 


^      iiuiiwiiui      w  \j  i  u  c      iv     muiiuii 


IHUUR.Y 


25     CENTS 


k 


/v 


C  ON  STA  NC 
BENNETT 


fho  Has  the  Best  Figure  in  Hollywood' 


Sunshine 


ellows 


Heat   Purifies 


LUC  Kl ES 

are  always 

kind  to  your 

throat 


Everyone  knows  that  sunshine  mellows— 
that's  why  the  "TOASTING"  process  includes  the  use  of 
the  Ultra  Violet  Ray.  LUCKY  STRIKE  — the  finest  cigarette 
you  ever  smoked/  made  of  the  finest  tobaccos— the  Cream 
of  the  Crop—  THEN—  "IT'S  TOASTED."  Everyone  knows 
that  heat  purifies  and  so  "TOASTING"— that  extra,  secret 
process  — removes  harmful  irritants  that  cause  throat 
irritation  and  coughing. 

"It's  toasted" 

Your  Throat  Protection— against  irritation— against  cough 

TUNE  IN— The  Lucky  Strike  Dance  Orchestra,  every  Tuesday,  Thursday  and  Saturday 
evening  over  N.B.C.  networks. 


The  adticeof  your  phy- 
sician is :  Keep  out  of 
doors,  in  the  open  air, 
breathe  deeply;  take 
plenty  of  exercise  in 
the  mellow  sunshine; 
and  have  a  periodic 
check-up  on  the 
health  of  your  body. 


1931.  The  A.  T.  Co..  Mfrs. 


I  \I  \..\/i\i     i  OB    M  UtCH,    I       I 


Kecaptu  re  at  the  Saline  Spri/ufA, 

tlie  loveliiieAA  ot  Healtl 


Follow  the  Saline  Way  to  youth, 
to  beauty  and  to  charm 

IN  your  pursuit  of  beaut)'  and  of 
charm  be  true  to  your  routine  of 
face  creams  and  lotions.  For  they  help 
you  to  meet  your  mirror  with  an  un- 
marred  beaut}-  —  to  take  pride  in  your 
petal-smooth  complexion. 

But  you  cannot,  in  fairness,  expect 
even  the  finest  creams  and  lotions  to 
do  all  the  work  alone.  For  the  secret 
of  a  glowing  beaut)-  is  cleanliness  from 
within. 

So  claim  for  your  own  the  loveli- 
ness of  health.  Seek  it  with  the  health- 
giving  salines — with  Sal  Hepatica.  For 
in  Sal  Hepatica  you  have  the  sure  and 
simple  way  of  keeping  clean  internally 
— of  sweeping  the  system  of  blemish- 
bringing  poisons. 

To  drink  salines  for   the  complex- 


ion's sake  has  long  been  the  practice 
of  fashionable  Europeans.  To  Vichy. 
to  Wiesbaden,  to  Aix,  they  come 
there  to  drink  the  saline  waters  that  re- 
new their  vitality  and  freshen  their 
complexions. 


Sal  HePatica 


Physicians  here  and  abroad  commend 
this  practice  of  drinking  salines  for 
health.  And  Sal  Hepatica  is  the  Ameri- 
can equivalent  of  the  famous  saline 
method. 

Constipation  and  headaches,  colds, 
rheumatism  and  many  digestive 
troubles  are  vanquished  by  the  saline 
waters.  The  bloodstream  is  cleared  and 
the  system  functions  normally. 

Get  a  bottle  of  Sal  Hepatica  today. 
Keep  internally  clean  with  Sal  Hepatica 
for  one  whole  week.  See  how  this 
wonderful  saline  treatment  makes  you 
feel  better,  look  better,  be  better!  Send 
for  our  free  booklet,  "To  Clarice  in 
quest  of  her  youth."  It  tells  you  in  de- 
tail the  saline  way  to  beaut)-  and  health. 


Bwstoi-Meyiiis  Co.,  Dept.  G-31."l  Tw  St ..N.Y. 
Kindly  send  me  the  free  booklet.  "To  Clarice  in  quest 
of  her  youth."  which  explains  the  many  benefits  01 
Sal  Hepatica. 

: 


Start. 
City— 


State - 


When  you  write  to  adTertisers  please  mention  rilOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


4- 


§ECRET§    FROU    THEIR    PRIV/ITE    UVEi 


Meet  the  Royal   Family  of  Broadway! 
Reading  from  left  to  right  .  .  .  There's 
Tony  Cavendish,  reckless,  cyclonic, 
irresponsible,    "America's    Greatest 
Lover"   .    .    and  you'll    love   him   too. 
Julie,  scorning  marriage  and   millions 
for  the  stage.  Fanny,  '"empress"  of  the 
family,  and  still  a  young  woman,  after 
70  dramatic  years.  Gwen,  18  .  .  what's 
a  husband  and  children  with  the  worlds 
applause  calling?  <J  The  gorgeous,  glam- 
orous Cavendishes!    Meet  them  in  this 
sparkling  motion  picture  by  Paramount; 
it's  the  intimate  story  of  their  lives  and 
loves.    You'll  laugh,  you'll  live,  you'll 
enjoy  every  minute  of  it!    It's  a  Para- 
mount Picture,  and  of  course  "the  best 
show  in  town!  " 

I  V  %  1 1  AlllE 

cuul 
IREDRIC  MARC  II 

in 


ft  '-,-:= 


/Ae <  Koyal  ^rcwniup 

€>W     BKCADWAY 

with 

MARY   BRIAN  and  HENRIETTA  CROSMAN 

Directed  by  George  Cukor  and  Cyril  Gardner.    Based  on  "The 

Royal  Family"  by  Edna  Ferber  and  George  S.  Kaufman. 


("paramount  ?^:  Cpidurei 


PARAMOUNT  PUDLIX  CORPORATION.  AOOLPH  ZUKOR.  PIES..  PARAMOUNT  BLOC.  N   T 


E»try  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  euaranteed. 


PHOTOPLAY 

The  World*!  Le  :i  <1  i  ii  g  M  otion  Pi  tio  a 


Vol.  XXXIX  N.i.  I 


J  whs   R.Ol  irk.  h'tiiior  and  Pvbluhei 


March,  19.11 


Leonard  Hall,  Managing  / 


Winners  of   Photoplay 

Magazine     Gold      Medal      tor 
the   best   picture   of  the   year 

ins  HS3  1916 

HI  MOR-         The  "BI  U 

ESQUE"    COVERED  GESTE" 

W AGON" 

1901  1924  l":: 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
D  v\  Iiv    LINCOLN"  HI  \\  1  N " 


1923 

1929 

1928 

"ROBIN- 

"THE  BIG 

"POUR 

HOOD" 

PARADE" 
1929 

"DISRAELI" 

SONS" 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets  ....  0 

Friendly  Advice  on  Girls' 

Problems            is 

Bollywood  Menus 83 

Questions  and  Answers       ...  ^ 

These  New  Faces         9S 

Addresses  of  the  Stars       ...  100 

-  of  Current  Photoplays        .      .  134 


Hi"ji-Li<z;lits  of  This  Issue 


Am 


Close-l  |>>  and  Long-Shots    .... 

I  )id  Brow  ii  :tii(l  ( iarbo  Fight  ? 

Who  Has  the  Best  Figure  in  Hollywood? 

The  Untold  ( 'hapter        ...  .       . 

Still  hacking  Around 

Hey,  Doug!  Jusl  Look  What's  Going  on  Here!  . 

Poor  Li'l  Rango    . 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcasl  from  Hollywood 

Is  It  Easy  Money? 

A  Real  Sheik  Sees  Hollywood 

Seymour — Photoplay's  Style  Authority 
Smarten  Up  Your  Gowns  with  Smart  Jewelry 
They  Are  Hollywood's  Besl  Known  Unknowns 

Reeling  Around 

Moo!  It's  Only  Hollywood!  < 


Jambs  R.  Qi  irk 
K  1 1  in. Kim.  Albert 

ii.  W  nil  \.\.\    1'i.i.n  iii  k 

.1  \  mi    Iki.m  ii 

Ki  BTOJI    ArXI  i  i 

I'.im  .1.    OODI    ■ 

II  MUM      I 

i ;  i  ■    I  i \  im  i< 

Tom  Ki.i.is 


J.    EuOENE    (  IbBXBH  \n 
LaONABD    II  Ml. 

MfPBELL     M  uCm.1.111  II 


33 
34 

39 

n> 

17 

48 
58 
50 

(11 
70 
i  .' 
78 
84 


Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures S 

The  Shadow  Stage 54 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month HU 

Personalities 

This  Odd  ( 'hap  Barryinoiv Harry  Lang  31 

Spotlighting  Dorothy ,"»s 

Ina  Claire  I-anJh  Last — and  Loudest!        .         .                   Leonard  Hall  42 

Gloria's  "Hank"  Rebels! Katbxrtmb  Alberi  60 

••.Iu>t  Let  Me  Work" Tom  Blub  65 

Lew  Stare-  at  Stars Pottkb  Braytom  <i<i 

Unbeatable  Betty Michael  Woodward  <i!> 

Larry  the  Kill Howard  James  7  1 


Short  Stories 


The  Star'-  Secret 
Silent  Drama 


D\\  V    III  UNIT        4.1 

Alfred  I>   Whkh 


Published  monthly  by  the  PHOTOPLAY  Pi  BI  imiinc;  Co. 

Editorial  Offices.  221  W.  57th  St..  New  York  City  Publishing  Office.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave..  Chicago,  III. 

The  International  News  Company.  Ltd..  DistributingAgents,  5  Bream's  Building.  London.  England 

JAMBS  R.  Qt  irk.  President  Robert  M.  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathrvn  Dougherty.  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  SUBSCRIPTION:  S2.S0  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and  Cuba;  $3.00  Canada;  S3.50  for  foreign  countries.    Remittances 

should  be  made  by   check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.     (.  II  imn      Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24.  1912.  at  the  Postoflicc  at  Chicago.  Ill  .  under  the  Act  of  March  3.  1879. 

Copyright.  1931,  by  the  I'hotdplay  PUBLISHING  Company.  Chicago 


Brickbats  &  Bouquets 


The  $25  Letter 

Louisville,  Ky. 

T  F  there  must  be  pictures  about  gangsters, 
■*•  stick-up  men  and  slick  society  crooks, 
then  for  our  moral  health's  sake  show  them 
up  in  their  true  light,  as  cowards,  bullies, 
sneaks  and  thieves  and  don't  make  them 
such  dangerously  attractive  and  charming 
gentlemen  as  Ronald  Colman  in  "Raffles" 
and  Edmund  Lowe  in  "Good  Intentions." 
Jane  R.  Greene 


The  $10  Letter 

San  Francisco,  Calif. 

VXTON'T    someone    please    take    all    the 
***    broad-A'd    scenic    and    travelogue   ex- 
plainers and  muzzle  them? 

They  describe  in  minutest  detail  scenes 
that  are  transpiring  before  our  eyes  as 
though  they  were  lecturing  before  a  class 
for  the  blind. 

Bad  poetry  is  spouted,  high-flown  phrases 
are  droned  forth  and  endless  moral  lessons 
are  thrown  in  our  faces. 

Something  must  be  done  about  it! 

Miss  L.  R.  Chapman 


The  $5  Letter 

Hollywood,  Calif. 

OINCE  the  exodus  of  the  stage  to  the 
'■'  screen,  it  threatens  to  pollute  it  with 
the  same  mire  which  has  been  its  own  death 
trap. 

Common  sense  bids  film  producers  to 
strictly  eliminate  this  pitfall,  if  they  wish 
the  talking  pictures  to  endure. 

Give  us  good  stories,  romance,  drama, 
laughter,  music,  song,  beauty  galore,  but 
giv.e  us  clean  entertainment. 

Louise  Ann  Vester 

6' 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Critics 

PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten   and   Five   Dollar  Prizes   for  the 

Best    Letters 


Just  plain  spiteful  letters  won't  be  printed,  for  we  want 
to  be  helpful  when  we  can.  Don't  write  more  than  200 
words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your  name 
and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't  write. 
Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  Photoplay,  221  West 
57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the  right 
to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations.  Come  on  in 
and  speak  your  mind! 


Better  Titles,  Please 

Seattle,  Wash. 

WHY  do  producers  feel  we  fans  should 
be  baited  with  spicy  or  inane  titles? 
We  are  not  necessarily  morons,  so  please 
give  us  sane,  intelligent  titles  and  notice  the 
return  for  your  trouble  in  better  pleased 
fans. 

Ardis  Addington 


Likes  Old  Friends 

Dubuque,  Iowa 

\  A OST  of  us  would  rather  go  and  see  a 
■tv-t  bedroom  farce  with  actors  we  know 
and  like  than  see  an  artistic  production  with 
a  lot  of  actors  we  never  even  heard  of. 

Mary  Keas 


JOAN  CRAWFORD  can  go  to  the  top 
of  the  class  this  month  for  her  grand 
performance  in  "Paid,"  which  picture 
won  the  popular  vote.  The  fans  are  loud 
in  praise  of  their  "modern  maiden"  in 
dramatic  parts.  Next  in  line  comes 
Ruth  Chatterton  for  her  work  in  "The 
Right  to  Love."  Ruth's  admirers  say 
that  she  always  gives  a  fine  performance 
and  in  this  she  excels.  No  one  could 
dream  of  missing  a  Chatterton  picture. 

John  Boles  and  Lawrence  Tibbett  can 
make  as  many  musical  pictures  as  they 
like.  The  fans  want  good  music  and 
"singers  who  can  sing." 

Clara  Bow,  as  usual,  gets  a  large  share 
of  the  mail.  This  month  her  loyal 
defenders  are  swearing  to  stand  by  Clara 
now  and  always  to  protect  her  from  the 
onslaughts  of  a  cruel  world. 

The  Garbo-Dietrich  discussion  is  still 
flooding  the  mail.  Greta's  fans  remain 
loval  to  their  soul-stirring  Garbo  but 
they  are  grateful  to  Germany  for  sending 
Marlene  and  have  admitted  her  to  their 
charmed  circle  of  favorites. 

Bouquets  are  being  heaped  on  Lew 
Ayres,  and  Buddy  Rogers'  supporters  say 
he  must  grow  up  and  get  better  stories. 


Songs  and  Songs 

Tallulah,  La. 

BECAUSE  we  do  not  like  to  hear  Buddy 
Rogers  sing,  is  no  indication  that  we  do 
not  like  to  hear  John  Boles  or  Lawrence 
Tibbett. 

S.  S. 


A 


You  Win,  Ted 

Tacoma,  Wash. 

S  a  fifty  per  cent  intelligent  citizen  and 
a  one  hundred  per  cent  movie  fan,  I 
wish  to  protest  against: 

Statements  that  moving  pictures  are  edu- 
cational. 

Advertising    copy   writers   who    base   all 
their  selling  appeal  on  sex. 

News    reels    with    stupid    staged    events, 
such  as  giving  an  elephant  a  bath. 

Petty,   trite   news   concerning   Hollywood 
celebrities. 

Ted  McIntire 


They  Will  Do  It! 

Sapulpa,  Okla. 

T  AST  minute  changes  in  the  titles  of  pic- 
-^  tures  are  terribly  confusing  to  the  fans. 
I  go  to  see  Joan  Crawford  in  "Paid"  and 
find  that  I  am  seeing  "Within  the  Law."  It 
was  a  good  picture  under  any  name,  but  I 
hate  to  think  how  near  I  came  to  missing  it. 
Dorothy  Morris 


A  Hundred  Per  Center 

Asbury  Park,  X.  J. 

THIS  evening  my  husband  and  I  started 
cv>t  for  a  little  enjoyment  and  received 
the  biggest  disappointment  yet  in  a  movie 
called  "The  Blue  Angel,"  starring  Marlene 
Dietrich  and  Emil  Jannings. 

We   understood  about   six  words  during 

the  whole   performance,   and   besides,   who 

wants  to  see  a  man  go  crazy?     This  is  the 

U.  S.  A.  and  we  want  United  States  talkies. 

Gene  Bljrk 

[please  turn  to  page  114] 


PhOTOP]  w     M  \..\/im     i  OB    MaBi  I',    I       ! 


JOE  E. 


^v^/^/V  Wit 

TWO  BIO  STARS  IN  ONE! 


BROWN 


and  WINNIE 


LI6HTNER 


All  the  laughs  that  Joe  E.  Brown  gave  you  in  Hold  Everything  and  all  the  fun  you 
got  from  seeing  Winnie  Lightner  in  The  Life  of  the  Party  are  now  doubled  in 
this  one  great  laugh  picture  of  the  year!  Find  out  when  Sit  Tight  is  coming  to 
town  and  make  a  date  to  have  your  funny  bone  tickled. 


Claudia  Dell,  Paul  Gregory, 

Lotti  Loder,  Hobart  Bosworth,  Frank 
Hagney,  Snitz  Edwards,  Edward  George 


'  Vitaphone"  is  the  registered  trademark  of  The  Vitaphone  Corp. 


Screen  story  and  adaptation  by  Rex  Taylor 
Screen    dialogue    by   William    K.  Weill 

Directed  by  Lloyd  Bacon 


A  WARNER  BROS.  *  VITAPHONE  picture 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  riTOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 

•^■Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


•  ABRAHAM  LINCOLN— United  Artists.— D. 
W.  Griffith  has  painted  the  great  humanity  of  a 
great  man  with  a  master  touch.  Walter  Huston  is 
a  majestic  Lincoln.     (Oct.) 

AFRICA  SPEAKS— Columbia.— Interesting  trav- 
elogue  with  animal  thrills,  considerably  dramatized. 
But  it  has  a  kick.     (Dec.) 

ALONG  CAME  YOUTH— Paramount.— Just  a 
light  Charles  (Ex-Buddy)  Rogers  picture,  with  laughs 
from  Stuart  Erwin.  Nobody  sings,  anyway.  And 
that's  something.      (Dec.) 

ANIMAL  CRACKERS— Paramount.— The  Four 
Marx  Brothers,  who  scored  in  "The  Cocoanuts,"  turn 
another  of  their  musical  shows  into  a  talkie  comedy, 
and  click  again.     (Oct.) 

ANYBODY'S  GI  RL— Columbia.— A  realistic 
story  of  a  taxi-dancer's  disillusionment.  Barbaia 
Stanwyck  ana  Ricardo  Cortez  are  great.    (Feb.) 

'  ANYBODY'S  WOMAN— Paramount.— Ruth 
Chatterton  as  a  hard-boiled  burlesque  queen.  The 
story'  misses  greatness,  but  the  Chatterton- Brook  team 
is  well  worth  your  money.     (Oct.) 

ARE  YOU  THERE?  —  Fox.  —  Beatrice  Lillie, 
comedy  queen  of  London,  tries  hard  to  be  funny  as 
a  lady  detective,  but  she  never  quite  clicks.  Bee 
isn't  there,  nor  is  her  picture.     (Nov.) 

ATLANTIC— Britisli  International.— English  dia- 
logue may  bore  you,  but  the  melodrama  must  have 
been  based  on  the  Titanic  catastrophe  and  it  affords 
some  creditable  sea  thrills.     (Dec.) 

BACHELOR  FATHER,  THE— M-G-M  —  Marion 
Davies  at  her  best  in  a  sprightly,  sophisticated  com- 
edy.   Good  for  one  million  laughs.    (Feb.) 

•  BAT  WHISPERS,  THE— United  Artists- 
Daddy  of  all  scare  movies,  and  it's  a  lulu. 
The  cameramen  and  Chester  Morris  share  first 
honors.      (Jan.) 

•  BEAU  IDEAL— Radio  Pictures.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Devil's  Battalion") — A 
spectacular  sequel  to  "  Beau  Geste,"  made  with  many 
of  the  same  actors.  A  great  picture  in  which  Ralph 
Forbes,  Loretta  Young  and  Don  Alvarado  do  great 
work.    (Feb.) 

BIG     BOY — Warners. — Al     Jolson,     mostly     in 

blackface,  sings  generously  and  cracks  funny  gags. 
Race-track  intrigue  made  into  comedy.     (Sept.) 

BIG  MONEY— Pathe.— Eddie  Quillan's  luck  at 
cards  drags  him  among  the  big-time  gamblers.  But 
its  all  a  lot  of  fun  and  Eddie's  fresh  wisecracks  will 
convulse  you.     (Jan.) 

•  BIG  TRAIL,  THE— Fox.— Now,  here's  an 
epic!  Buffalo  hunt,  Indians,  thrills,  pictorial 
beauty.  Raoul  Walsh's  supreme  directorial  achieve- 
ment. Greater  than  "The  Covered.  Wagon."  John 
Wayne,  newcomer,  moves  right  into  the  star  class. 
(Nov.) 

•  BILLY  THE  KID— M-G-M.— Johnny  Mack 
Brown  gives  the  show  of  his  life  as  the  boy  out- 
law. Not  history.  But  who  wants  history?  The 
movie's  a  pip.     (Dec.) 

•  BLUE  ANGEL,  THE— UFA-Paramount.— 
Emil  Jannings'  first  talkie  in  English.  And  it's 
a  knockout.  So  is  Marletie  Dietrich  as  the  woman 
who  drives  a  man  mad.    (Feb.) 

BOUDOIR  DIPLOMAT,  THE— Universal.— 
Sophisticated  comedy,  cleverly  acted  by  Betty  Comp- 
son  and  Ian  Keith.  A  few  dull  moments  but  many  de- 
lightful ones,  subtly  naughty.     (Dec.) 

BROTHERS— Columbia.— Bert  I.ytell  acts  a 
dual  role  in  a  mildly  effective  melodramatic  thriller. 
(Jan.) 

•     CALL  OF  THE  FLESH-M-G-M.-(Revi,  wed 
Under  the  title  "The  Singer  of  Seville") — Ro- 
mantic story  tailored  to  Ramon  Novarro's  talents 


Ramon  sings  and  acts  with  charm  and  Dorothy 
Jordan  is  delightful.     (Sept.) 

CAPTAIN  APPLEJACK— Warners.— All   in  fun 

— and  what  fun!  A  blase  young  man  finds  adventure 
among  the  pirates.  Heavy  loving  between  John 
Halliday  and  Kay  Strozzi,  with  Mary  Brian  as  the 
nice  girl.     (Nov.) 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  romantic 
bandit  rights  some  wrongs.  You  know  the  plot, 
but  it's  still  a  lot  of  fun.  Victor  Varconi  is  the  dash- 
ing Captain  and  Fay  Wray  airs  her  cute  Spanish 
accent.     (Nov.) 

CAT  CREEPS,  THE  — Universal.— Your  old 
friend,  "The  Cat  and  the  Canary,"  now  a  talkie. 
Shivers  and  thrills!  A  wow  scare-movie.  Neil  Hamil- 
ton leads  a  great  cast.     (Dec.) 

CHARLEY'S  AUNT— Columbia.— The  old  farce 
is  still  funny.  Charles  Ruggles  makes  it  worth  seeing 
again.      (Jan.) 


Dietrich! 

Who  is  this  woman  who,  with 
one  picture,  stole  Garbo's  su- 
premacy  as  the  exotic  creature  of 
the  screen?  What  is  her  back- 
ground? What  was  her  educa- 
tion, training,  and  breeding? 
What  kind  of  folks  is  she? 

One  of  Germany's  most  famous 
writers  was  assigned  to  the  task 
of  finding  these  things  out  for 
you,    and    youll    get    it    all    in 

Photoplay 

Next  Month 


•  CHECK  AND  DOUBLE  CHECK— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Amos  'n'  Andy  materialize  on  the 
screen,  with  Kingfish  and  the  Fresh  Air  Taxi!  Dis 
am  entertainment!    (Dec.) 

CHISELERS  OF  HOLLYWOOD— Willis  Kent 
Productions. — First-rate  entertainment.  Hokum, 
humor  and  heart.  Phyllis  Barrington,  a  newcomer, 
does  great  work.    (Feb.) 

•  CIMARRON— Radio  Pictures.— The  thrilling 
story  of  the  pioneer  West,  superbly  transferred 
to  the  screen.  Richard  Dix  re-establishes  himself  as 
a  star,  and  heads  a  remarkable  cast,    (beb.) 

COHENS  AND  KELLYS  IN  AFRICA,  THE— 

Universal. — Charlie  Murray  and  George  Sidney.     A 
scream  from  start  to  finish,      (Jan.) 

COLLEGE  LOVERS— First  National.— The  old 
football  stuff,  even  if  the  hero  doesn't  make  a  last 
minute  touchdown.  Jack  Whiting  and  Marian  Nixon 
are  the  lovers.      (Nov.) 

COMMAND  PERFORMANCE,  THE— Cruze- 
Tiffany  Productions. — A  bright  and  spicy  comedy 
about  one  of  those  engaging  mythical  kingdoms. 
Neil  Hamilton  is  simply  grand.    (Feb.) 


COMMON  CLAY— Fox.— Interesting  dramatic 
talkie  from  the  old  stage  play,  with  a  "Madame  X" 
type  of  plot.     Constance  Bennett  stars.     (Sept.) 

CONCENTRATIN*  KID,  THE— Universal.— 
Hoot  Gibson  falls  in  love  with  a  radio  voice.  A 
weak-sister  for  Hoot.      (J a  n.) 

CONSPIRACY— Radio  Pictures.— Bessie  Love's 
talents  are  lost  in  this.  Reminds  us  of  the  senior 
class  play  I    (Sept.) 

COSTELLO  CASE,— Sono  Art— James  Cruze  — 
The  sweethearts  are  suspected  of  murder  again. 
Tom  Moore  is  the  wise  copper.  Pretty  obvious 
melodrama.      (Jan.) 

•  CRIMINAL  CODE,  THE— Columbia.— Don't 
miss  this  powerful  prison  drama.  You'll  never 
forget  it.  Walter  Huston  and  Phillips  Holmes  head  a 
brilliant  cast.     (Feb.) 

DANCERS,  THE— Fox— A  rambling,  younger 
generation  drama  which  isn't  at  its  best  on  the  screen. 
The  players,  including  Lois  Moran  and  Phillips 
Holmes,  do  their  best.    (I'eb.) 

DANGER  LIGHTS— Radio  Pictures.— You'll  be 
all  over  the  seat  during  the  wild  ride  into  Chicago, 
with  Robert  Armstrong  at  the  throttle  and  Louis  Wol- 
heim  dying  in  a  coach  behind.     (Oct.) 

DANGEROUS  NAN  McGREW— Paramount.— 
Proving  that  mere  "cuteness"  doesn't  make  a  picture. 
This  one  needs  a  story.     Helen  Kane  is  Nan.  {Sept.) 

•  DAWN  PATROL,  THE— First  National.— 
Nary  a  woman  in  this.  Barthelmess,  Doug, 
Jr.,  and  Neil  Hamilton  in  powerful  war  picture  with 
thrills  a-plenty!    (Sept.) 

DAWN  TRAIL,  THE— Columbia.— A  good  Buck 
Jones  Western  with  a  rip-roarin'  fight  between  the 
sheep  and  cattle  men.    (Feb.) 

DERELICT — Paramount. — Big  Boy  Bancroft  and 
William  (stage)  Boyd  fight  a  grand  fight.  And  there 
are  lots  of  storms  at  sea.  Why  sorrv  about  the  story? 
(Dec.) 

•  DEVIL  TO  PAY,  THE— United  Artists-Sam- 
uel Goldwyn. — Ronnie  Colman  breezes  through 
a  tasty,  spicy  little  comedy.  Great  cast,  sparkling 
dialogue  and  finished  production.    (Feb.) 

DEVIL  WITH  WOMEN,  A  — Fox.  — (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "On  the  Make")  —A  McLaglen  formula 
picture,  with  Vic  the  usual  swaggering,  lovable 
bully.     Mona  Maris  is  lovely.     (Sept.) 

DICH   HAB  ICH  GELIEBT  (Because  I  Loved 

You) — AAFA-Tobis. — Though  it's  in  German,  you 
needn't  understand  the  language  to  enjoy  this  sweet 
love  story.      (Jan.) 

DIVORCE    AMONG    FRIENDS.— Warners. 

— Heigh  ho,  the  husband  and  wife  quarrel  and  make 
upl    Lew  Cody  is  the  only  bright  spot.    (Dec.) 

DOORWAY  TO  HELL,  THE— Warners.— Lew 
Ayres  as  a  gangster  with  a  Napoleonic  complex. 
Lew  is  great.    The  picture's  pretty  good.     (Nov.) 

DOUGH  BOYS— M-G-M— An  evening  of  laughs. 
Sad-faced  Buster  Keaton  wanders  through  some  of 
the  funniest  gags  ever.     (Oct.) 

DU  BARRY— WOMAN  OF  PASSION— United 

Artists. — Passion?  Well,  hardly.  Norma  Talmadge 
gives  a  hint  of  her  old  fire,  but  loses  in  the  tight 
against  long,  artificial  speeches.  Conrad  Nagel  and 
William  Farnum  are  excellent.     (Nov.) 

EAST  IS  WEST — Universal. — Lupe  Velez  plays 
Ming  Toy.  Edward  G.  Robinson  isChinatou-n  Charlie. 
They  should  have  made  the  old  play  convincing,  but 
something  went  wrong.      (Dec.) 


ESCAPE— Associated   Radio   Pictures.- 
lish    talkie    about    an    escaped    prisoner, 
talkie.      (Jan.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  10  ] 


-An   Eng- 
Far    too 


8 


PhOTOPI  w    M  m.\/im     i  ill 


JANET  GAYN  OR  and 
CHARLES  FARRELL 


in  RAOUL  WALSH'S 


THE  MAN  WHO  CAME  BACK 


Together  again!  Janet  and  Charlie,  the  boy  and  the  girl 
the  whole  world  loves.  They're  together— in  a  play  that 
spans  the  whole  octave  of  love  —  in  the  richest  roles 
of  romance  and  redemption  they  have  ever  played. 


Wonderful  as  they  were  in  Seventh  Heaven  and  Sunny 
Side  Up,  they're  more  marvelous  than  ever  in  THE 
MAN  WHO  CAME  B  AC  K,  from  the  stage  success 
by  Jules  Eckert  Goodman  and  John  Fleming  Wilson. 


Sellings  by   JOSEPH    URBAN 

N OTHER    GREAT    nA« 


MOVIETONE 


When  you  write  to  idrertlscrs  pletse  mention  rnOTCTLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


EX-FLAME— Liberty  Productions. — Your  old 
friend  "East  Lynne"  dressed  up  in  modern  clothes 
and  played  by  Norman  Kerry  and  Marian  Nixon. 
Old-fashioned  and  unconvincing.     (Jan.) 

EXTRAVAGANCE— Tiffany  Productions.— Fash- 
ions and  passions  blended  in  a  display  that  will  make 
the  audience  gasp.     Don't  take  Junior.     (Dec.) 

EYES  OF  THE  WORLD— United  Artists.— This 
Harold  Bell  Wright  standby,  in  its  talkie  dress,  is 
cumbersome  movie  stuff.    (Oct.) 

FAIR  WARNING— Fox— George  O'Brien  as  the 
•  Western  lad  who  slays  the  wicked  villain  and 
wins  the  girl.     (Jon.) 

FAST  AND  LOOSE— Paramount.— A  pleasant 
little  comedy  about  the  rich  girl  who  falls  in  love  with 
the  working  man.  Miriam  Hopkins  debuts  success- 
fully as  the  girl.    (Feb.) 

•  FATHER'S  SON — First  National.— A  simple 
story,  fine  and  human.  Lewis  Stone,  Irene 
Rich,  Leon  Janney.  Here  are  actors — and  a  notable 
film.     (Dec.) 

•     FEET    FIRST— Paramount. — Harold    Lloyd 
rings  the  bell  again — with  both  feet.     You'll 
sliriek  and  squeal.     (Dec.) 

FIGHTING  CARAVANS— Paramount— Your 
old  friend,  "The  Covered  Wagon."  gone  talkie  just  a 
bit  late.  The  scenes  are  beautiful  and  Ernest  Tor- 
rence  and  Tully  Marshall  are  on  hand  in  their  original 
roles.    (Feb.) 

FLAME  OF  LOVE,  THE— British  International. 
— Anna  May  Wong  as  a  Chinese  vamp  in  Russia. 
But  it  really  matters  very  little.     (Jan.) 

FLIRTING  WIDOW,  THE— First  National- 
Dorothy  Mackaill  scores  a  bull's-eye  in  this  clever 
comedy,  in  a  part  that  suits  her  to  a  couple  of  T's. 
(Oct.) 

FOLLOW  THE  LEADER— Paramount.— Ed 
Wynn's  a  howl  in  this  dandy  transcription  of  his  stage 
hit,  "Manhattan  Mary."  A  musical  comedy,  but 
it's  a  honey.     (Dec.) 

FOLLOW  THRU— Paramount.— All-Technicolor 
golf  musical  comedy,  and  all  good,  fast  entertain- 
ment.   Nancy  Carroll  and  Charles  Rogers.    (Sept.) 

FOR  THE  DEFENSE— Paramount.— Bill  Powell 
as  a  criminal  lawyer  who  lets  love  interfere  with  busi- 
ness and  lands  in  prison.  Kay  Francis  the  girl  who 
waits  for  him.     Good.     (Sept.) 

FOR  THE  LOVE  O'  LIL— Columbia.— Naughty 
in  a  very  nice  way,  this  story'  of  married  life  manages 
to  be  reasonably  entertaining.  Jack  Mulhall,  Sally 
Starr.  Elliott  Nugent  and  Margaret  Livingston  play 
it.     (Feb.) 

FOUND — Ralph  P.  King  Productions. — Australia 
sponsored  this  travel  film.  It's  excellent,  except  for  a 
goofy  ending.     (Dec.) 

FREE  LOVE— Universal. — Conrad  Nagel  and 
Genevieve  Tobin  demonstrate  what  to  do  when  a 
woman  takes  up  psycho-analysis.  An  amusing  com- 
edy.    (Feb.) 

GOING  WILD  —  First  National.  —  Remember 
Doug  MacLoan  in  "Going  LTp"?  This  is  a  revival, 
with  Joe  E.   Brown  as  the  funny  fellow  who  is  mis- 


taken for  an  aviator, 
spots.     (Nat.) 


Some  laughs  and  some  dull 


GOLDEN  DAWN—  Warners.—  Vivienne  Segal  in 
all-Technicolor  operetta.     Dull.     (Oct.) 

GORILLA.    THE— First    National.— A    goodish 
enough  thriller — but  it's  been  dolefully  slowed  down 
for  the  screen.     Frisco,  Broadway  funnyman,  i 
funny  than  usual.     (Nov.) 

•  GREAT  MEADOW,  THE— M-G-M.— A  stir- 
ring and  exciting  yarn  of  pioneering,  with 
Eleanor  Board  man  a  brilliant  member  of  the  distin- 
guished cast.    (Feb.) 

•  HALF  SHOT  AT  SUNRISE— Radio  Pictures. 
— Who  said  "depression "?  Go  A  W  O  L  with 
Wheeler  and  Woolsey  in  Paris.  The  most  rollicking 
nonsense  ever  devised.     ( Nov.  > 

HATE  SHIP,  THE— British  International.— A 
fairly  gripping  old-school  melodrama — thrills  and 
mystery  on  board  a  yacht.    (Feb.) 

HEADIV  NORTH— Tiffany  Productions.— Bob 
Steele  with  his  horse,  cowboy  suit  and  a  coupla  guns. 
A  sizzling  hot  Western.      (Jan.) 

HEADS  UP— Paramount. — Charles  (Ex-Buddy) 
Rogers  in  a  pleasant  little  musical  comedy  about  a 
dashing  coast  guardsman.  Not  historic — except  that 
Buddy  smokes  iris  first  cigarette!     (Dec.) 

HELL'S  ISLAND— Columbia.— The  Jack  Holt- 
Ralph  Graves  team  turns  out  a  slam-bang  picture  of 
love,  hate  and  friendship  in  the  Foreign  Legion. 
(Oct.) 

•  HER  MAN— Pathe.— "He  was  her  man.  but 
he  done  her  wrong" — Frankie  and  her  erring 
Johnnie  further  immortalized  on  celluloid  in  the  in- 
teresting persons  of  Helen  Twelvetrees  and  Phillips 
Holmes.     ( Nov.) 

HER  WEDDING  NIGHT— Paramount.— Clara, 
the  Bow,  en  negligee  in  Paris.  Bedrooms  and  boy 
friends.    Light,  but  quite  cute.     (Dec.) 

HOOK,  LINE  AND  SINKER— Radio  Pictures.— 
That's  how  you'll  go  for  this  latest  gem  of  Wheeler- 
Woolsey  nonsense.  The  monkey  business  is  perpe- 
trated in  gangland.    (Feb.) 

HOT  HEIRESS,  THE— First  National.— A  mil- 
lionaire's daughter  on  the  make  for  a  steel  riveter, 
poor  but  virile.  Loads  of  fun.  Ben  Lyon's  the  gent, 
and  what  a  cutie  is  Ona  Munson!    (Dec.) 

•  ILLICIT — Warners. — Another  triumph  for 
Barbara  Stanwyck,  who  plays  a  modern 
maiden  who  wants  love  without  marriage.  A  dar- 
ing film,  strong  and  moving.     (Jan.) 

INSIDE  THE  LINES— Radio  Pictures.— Old  style 
war  stuff,  with  spies,  secret  service,  trick  Hindus,  and 
a  love  in  wartime  theme.  Betty  Compson  and  Ralph 
Forbes.     (Sept.) 

INSPIRATION— M-G-M.— Garbo  was  never 
lovelier  than  in  this  very  modern  story  of  the  indiscreet 
woman  and  the  price  she  pays.  Lewis  Stone,  Robert 
Montgomery'  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  lend  Greta 
strong  support.     (Ftb.) 


JAZZ  CINDERELLA.  THE— Chesterfield.— Poor 
girl  capture-  rich  boy.  Myrna  Loy  and  Jason  Ro- 
bards  do  as  well  as  they  can,  wiuch  isn't  mucti.   (Dec.) 

•     JUST  IMAGINE— Fox.— Life  in  1980!    Mad 
buffoonery,   funny,   ironic   and   different.      El 
Brendel  heads  the  dandy  cast.    Top  entertainment. 

(Dec.) 

JUST  LIKE  HEAVEN— Tiffany  Productions.— A 
simple  little  romance  between  a  toe  dancer  and  a 
balloon  peddler.  Fifteen-year-old  Anita  Louise  is  the 
heroine.    (Feb.) 

KATHLEEN  MAVOURNEEN— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Sally  O'Neil  is  the  colleen.  Save  your  money. 
(Oct.) 

•     KISMET— First     National.— Distinguished 
Otis  Skinner  makes  his  talkie  bow.    Beautiful 
fantasy,  but  fantasy.     (Dec.) 

•  LADY'S  MORALS,  A— M-G-M.— Introduc- 
ing Crace  Moore,  young  and  beautiful  Metro- 
politan Opera  prima  donna.  A  lovely  voice  and  a 
charming  story,  based  on  the  life  of  Jenny  Lind. 
Reginald  Denny  is  fine  opposite  the  star.    (Dec.) 

LADY  SURRENDERS,   A— Universal— Marital 
subtly  and  delightfully  described  by  Conrad 
Nagel.    Genevieve   Tobin,    Rose    Hobart   and    Basil 
Rathbone.    A  charming  picture.     (Dec.) 

LADY  WHO  DARED,  THE— First  National.— 
Billie  Dove  in  an  aged  and  faltering  story  about  a  dip- 
lomat's wife  who  gets  in  a  mess  with  blackmailers. 
(Oct.) 

LAND  OF  MISSING  MEN,  THE— Tiffany 
Productions. — A  Bob  Steele  Western.  Hard  ridin', 
and  that's  all  there  is  to  it.     (J a  n.) 

LASH.  THE — First  National.— (Reviewed  under 
the  title  "Adios'i.  Richard  Barthelmess  as  an  early 
California  Robin  Hood.  Colorful  and  charming. 
You'll  like  it.     (Dec.) 

LAST  OF  THE  DUANES—  Fox.— Even  if  you're 
not  a  Western  fan  you'U  like  this.  George  O' Brien 
stars.     (Sept.) 

LAST  OF  THE  LONE  WOLF— Columbia.— The 
perennial  Lone  Wolf  in  the  person  of  ageless  Bert 
Lytell.  After  much  rushing  about.  Bert  preserves  the 
queen's  fair  name!  It  all  happens  in  mythical 
Saxonia.     (Jan.) 

•  LAUGHTER— Paramount. — Nancy  Carroll 
and  Fredric  March  in  love — with  a  millionaire 
husband  in  the  background.  A  bewitching  picture. 
See  it.    (Dec.) 

LAWFUL     LARCENY— Radio     Pictures.— Bebe 

Daniels  and  Lowell  Sherman  in  sophisticated  melo- 
drama that  you'll  like.     (Sept.) 

LEATHER  NECKING— Radio  Pictures.— An- 
other musical  romance,  but  you'll  roll  with  laughter 
while  a  rare  cast  of  funsters  do  their  stuff.    (Oct.) 

L'ENIGMATIQUE    MONSIEUR   PARKES   — 

Paramount.  —  The  French  version  of  "Slightly 
Scarlet."  with  M.  Adolphe  Menjou  and  Mile.  Claud- 
ette  Colbert  in  the  leads.  Made  for  the  French,  but 
interesting  to  Americans,  too.    (Nov.) 

{  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  15  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  picl{  out  your  evening  s  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list. 


Page 
Almost  A  Honeymoon — British  Inter- 
national   117 

Aloha — Rogell-Tiffany  Production.  . .  .116 
Caught  Cheating — Tiffany  Productionsll6 
City  Lights — Chaplin- United  Artists.  .  54 
Damaged    Love  —  Sono    Art  —  World 

Wide 117 

Dance,  Fools.  Dance — M-G-M 56 

Dracula — Universal 57 

Easiest  Way,  The— M-G-M     56 

Fifty  Million  Frenchmen — Warners  .  .  57 
Fighting  Thru — Tiffany  Productions.  .  116 


Page 

Gans  Buster,  The 55 

Gentleman's  Fate— M-G-M 54 

How  He  Lied  to  Her  Husband — British 

International 117 

Jaws  of  Hell — Sono  Art — World  Wide. .   57 
Love  Kiss,  The — Celebrity  Productionsll6 
Man  From  Chicago,  The — Elstree  Pro- 
duction  117 

Man  Who  Came  Back.  The — Fox  56 

Many  a  Slip — Universal 57 

Men  on  Call — Fox 57 

Millie—Radio  Pictures 56 


Page 
Xight  Birds — British  International. ...  116 

Xo  Limit — Paramount 56 

Once  a  Sinner — Fox 117 

Painted  Desert,  The— Pathe 57 

Resurrection — L7niversal 54 

Seas  Beneath — Fox 56 

Second  Honeymoon,  The — Continentalll6 

Southerner,  The— M-G-M 55 

Sunrise    Trail,    The — Tiffany    Produc- 
tions  H6 

Trader  Horn— M-G-M 55 

White  Thunder— 116 


Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 104  ] 


10 


PbOTOPI  h\    M.\«.\/!M     i  hi;    M  Uti  hI       I 


I   I 


LITTLE  CA 


DWARD  G.ROBINSON 

DOUGLAS  FAIRBANKS,^ 

Little  Caesar  —  King  of  die  Underworld!    He  ruled  supreme — a 

law  unto  himself,  for  in  his  racket  he  was  court,  judge,  and  jurv. 
His  verdict  was  final  for  he  was  also  the  executioner!  He  ruled 
Mipreme  —  but  a  woman  broke  his  power.  He  threatened  to  get 
his  best  friend  but  his  hand  faltered  on  the  trigger.  He  runs  the 
gamut  of  power  —  from  gutter  to  gang  ruler  —  to  gutter  again! 

*  I  itaphonc  "  is  the  registered  trademark  of  The  J'itaphone  Corporation 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  *VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


When  you  write  to  adrertlsers  please  mention  rilOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


Featuring 

WILLIAM  COLLIER,  Jr. 
SIDNEY  BLACKMER 
GLENDA     FARRELL 

■  VI  l-ll  im  I  .  Tlio-.  IACKSOM 
NOVEL  BY  \r.  R.  BVKM  n 
SCBSEN  ADAPTATION  BT 
ikvm  BKD1  LHDSFABACOH 

DIRECTED  RY 

M  E  RVY.N     L  E  R  O  Y 


tjBl&s 


The  Girl 


WHEN  you  say  they  can't 
come  back  you  don't  mean 
Constance  Bennett.  For 
here's  a  child  of  fortune  who  has  done 
the  impossible.  She's  played  Cinder- 
ella from  the  reverse  angle. 

live  years  ago  she  was  the  most 
talked  of  girl  in  pictures.  That  was 
after  the  release  of  "Sally,  Irene 
and  Mary."  Edmund  Goulding,  who 
directed  it,  used  to  dash  about  the 
M-G-M  lot  calling  her  one  of  the 
great  actresses  of  the  screen.  And 
then,  without  warning,  she  married 
millionaire  playboy  Phil  Plant  and 
disappeared  from  Hollywood. 

When  such  a  thing  occurs  it 
usually  spells  "curtains"  for  the 
actress.  You  heard  about  Connie, 
now  and  then,  and  the  gay  life  she 
was  leading  on  the  Continent.  Then 
she  returned  as  suddenly  as  she  had 
left. 

She  had  been  signed  to  a  Pathe 
contract  by  the  studio's  foreign  rep- 
resentative, the  Marquis  de  la 
Falaise.  There  was  interest  in  her, 
as  always,  for  glamour  surrounds  all 
the  Bennett  girls  and  particularly 
the  sparkling,  sophisticated  Connie. 
But  the  wise  ones  shook  their  heads 
and  murmured  that  once  having  left 
pictures  she  could  not  again  take  up 
the  threads  of  her  success. 

CONNIE  has  been  in  Hollywood 
now  a  little  more  than  a  year. 
She  had  appeared  in  comparatively 
few  films,  yet  she  is  rated  at  the  box- 
office  so  near  the  top  that  you  can 
name  the  boys  and  girls  ahead  of  her 
on  the  fingers  of  one  hand. 

You  wouldn't  think,  to  look  at 
her,  that  she  had  once  been  captain 
of  her  school  basketball  team,  hockey 
player  and  cheer  leader  for  one  sea- 
son. But  perhaps  you  might,  for, 
above  all  else,  Constance  Bennett 
does  the  thing  that  is  being  done. 

She  is  the  epitome  of  the  word 
"smart."  In  school  she  was  always 
at  the  football  games  and  the 
proms.  In  Europe  she  led  the  smart 
crowds.  In  Hollywood  she  is  one  of 
the  main  topics  of  conversation. 

It  is  natural  that  a  woman  so 
positive  should  be  discussed.  And 
I've  never  heard  anyone  say  of  her, 
"Connie  Bennett?  Oh,  she's  all 
right.  Very  sweet  girl."  Like  liquor, 
you  take  her  or  leave  her  alone. 
You  like  her  or  you  don't. 

OF  course,  she  has  the  reputation 
of  being  temperamental — as  all 
positive  people  have.  She  is  also  called 
snobbish  and  affected,  yet  she  is 
sincere  when  she  says  that  she  hates 
affectation.  When  shespeaks  she  uses 
the  accents  of  a  cultured  woman  be- 
cause she  was  taught  so  in  finishing 
schools. 

Perhaps,  knowing  her  sophistica- 
tion, you'd  think  that  she  doesn't 
care  much  about  anything.    Wrong! 

12 


on 


the  Cover 


She's  Smart — This  Girl 


Garbo? 

What's  happening  to  Garbo? 
The  veil  of  mystery  that  has 
surrounded  the  lady  is  under 
analysis  and  may  turn  out  to 
be  just  studio-made  fog. 

We  have  asked  Katherine 
Albert,  one  of  the  keenest 
young  writers  in  Hollywood, 
to  delve  into  this  "Mystery" 
and  tell  us  the  real  facts  in 
the  light  of  recent  develop- 
ments. 

We  are  sure  her  article  in  the 

April  issue  of 

Photoplay 

will  be  mighty  interesting 
reading. 


Take  the  matter  of  her  publicity,  for 
instance.  A  storv  appeared  stating 
that  she  spent  $250,000  a  year  for 
clothes.  Connie  was  furious,  because 
it  was  a  lie.  She  offered  proof  that 
she'd  never  been  known  to  go  higher 
than  S20,000  for  an  annual  wardrobe. 

UNDERNEATH  the  poise  her 
life  has  given  her,  she  had  been 
hurt  by  the  publicity  given  herself 
and  Gloria  Swanson's  ex-husband. 
She  continues  to  be  hurt  by  the 
accusing  letters  from  fans  that  con- 
tinue to  come  to  her. 

You  may  wonder  why  she  came 
back  to  Hollywood,  why  she  re- 
turned to  pictures,  why  she  sub- 
jected herself  to  the  publicity  that 
she  must  have.  She  had  two  reasons. 
She  says,  "I  wanted  to  make  my 
own  money.  That's  the  only  reason 
I  came  back.  I  wanted  to  have 
financial  independence — a  thing  I'd 
never  had  except  when  I  did  work 
on  the  screen." 

And  she's  well  on  her  way  toward 
that  independence.  Instead  of  rest 
ing  during  the  ten  weeks'  vacation 
she  is  allowed  under  her  Pathe  con- 
tract she  will  make  two  pictures  for 
Warners  and  receive  $300,000. 

But  there's  another  and  more  vital 
reason  than  that.    She's  a  Bennett. 

Try  as  her  mother  might  to  rob 
her  of  her  heritage  and  give  her  only 
a  social  life,  she  could  not,  for  then 
flows  in  her  veins  the  indomitabh 
blood  of  that  sturdy  old  curtain 
speaker,  Richard  Bennett.  She  must 
act. 

It  comes  easy  to  her — as  every, 
thing  in  her  life  has  come.  For  all 
her  social  activities,  she  was  a  good 
student  at  school.  Yet  she  spent 
very  little  time  with  her  books, 
Quick,  alert,  she  was  aided  by  an 
excellent  memory.  She  has  always 
done  pretty  much  as  she  wanted  to 
do  and  that's  a  Bennett  char- 
acteristic. 

YOU  see  her  always  the  gayest  o£ 
any  group.  She  appears  at  the 
Mayfair,  at  the  Embassy  Club  and 
the  next  day  everybody  is  asking, 
"What  did  Connie  Bennett  wear? 
What  did  Connie  Bennett  do?"  She 
is  invariably  faultlessly  dressed.  She 
always  conducts  herself  beyond  re- 
proach. 

The  divine  madness  which  is  her 
enviable  heritage  is  tempered  by  her 
own  good  sense,  her  taste,  her  train- 
ing as  a  woman  of  the  world.  In 
short,  Connie  isher  father's  daughter, 
and,  so,  unusual — but  in,  if  you 
understand  the  distinction,  a  nice 
way.  Connie  does  the  right  thing 
right. 

Richard  Bennett's  eldest  daughter, ! 
a  chip  off  the  block,  a  spirited,  tal- 
ented, chic  young  woman  with  a 
mind  of  her  own  and  the  courage  to 
speak  it — Connie  Bennett. 


Contraries  of  lite  Sm, 


Out  of  tin-  "Norili  nun  come  to  li < !•• 


till'   Mm-   breakers   ...   to   lu-k   on 


tin*  sun-drenched  sand  ...  to  seek 


respite,   in   a    graceful    interlude, 


from  the  rigors  of  the  season.  \ml 


™^  Camels  add   to   your  enjoyment, 


In  their  mi  hi  mellow  ness  and 


refreshing   fragrance   is   a   subtle 


quality  thai  only  golden  sunshine 


can  bestow.  ...  In  the  truesl  sense 


they,  too.  are  comrades  of  the  sun. 


E     1931,    R.    J.   Rrvnoltl-   Tohjrrn    Co..    l"inUon-*ll»n,      H       I 


IMAGINE  BEING  THE 
OF  A  BACHELOR! 


MARION  DAVIES 
PRODUCTION 


MARION 


DAUGHTER 


TKr    BrlaiK-o    Theuc»e. 

NfU    York,   uKrir 

"The  Bachelor  Fa(he<  '* 

first  scored  itc 

sensational  triumph 


DAVID 
BELASCO 

whose  famoui 

Broadway  production 

is  now  brought 

to  the  talking  screen 


She  was  his  favorite  child   until   he  dis- 
covered   she    was    not    his   child    at    all! 


ES 


He,  too,  was  a  bachelor  — but  his  feeling* 
towards  her  were  in   no  wav   paternal  ! 

With   Ralph   Forbes 
and  C.  Aubrey  Smith 

Based  on  the  play  by 
Edward  Childs  Carpenter 


ROBE 


Directed  by 

EONARD 


IN  THE  FAMOUS  BROADWAY  COMEDY  HIT 


You  won't  be  able  to  resist  her  any  more  than 
her  bachelor  father  could!  Here  is  one  of  the 
most  lovable  and  entertaining  roles  ever  played 
by  America's  favorite  comedienne.  Here  is  a  play 
about  a  situation  you  have  never  before  seen 
on  the  screen.  No  wonder  New  York  applauded 
its  wit,  daring  and  all-around  human  interest! 


^Bachelor 

FATHER 


METR0-G0LDWYN-MAYER  {>%*? 


"More  Stars  Than  There  Are  in  Heaven" 


<&««>.. ,-cwO 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 


■  m  p  tGl    10  I 


i  ii  I      111      i  111      PARTY,     mi 

i 

,,.1  llavun  i  'A  hat  laughs  I     \Jan.) 

•     LIGHTN1N' 
Will  Rogers  .it  his  I-  it       \       I  ibout 

.  ■•   mill,  .i  line  cut,  brilliant   dl- 
\nd    i  lUons. 

\\  hit  more  i  nil  I  )     i  "k."     (Jan.) 

*     I. II  li  »M 
i     debut     1. 1 

ll.ili.IIt         I  ■     II    I-  .111  Clll    I 

piile  .u  liome  without 

I  ION    \M)    I  UK    I   \MH.    I  III  I        \ 

■   i    i  mi.      It's 
Mm. mi   Sreg.ir.  I  armel    M\    I 
Wallet  ll*.      lJi>ii.) 

I  I  I   I  I  I        VI  (   I  l>l  N  I  .       I  III 

the  talkie. 

lirbanks,    Jr  ind    i>.ut. 

1    I  I    I  I   I    l     \l   s  \K 

ip  on  underworld  mo>  ii  i  )■  fore 

mi- n  ilu>  one.     It's  north  ll,  th  ml- .  to  brilliant  work 

LON1  RIDI  K.  THE  -Columbia  ving. 

tone  by    Bii        |  horse, 

pi.) 

I  (IN  :  si  (Ml      IKMI,  THE  -Sj  act, 

— I'll- 1. 1  taney 

ind  Virginia   Brown  Faire,  the  rancher's 
i.     Kida  will  love  it. 

I  OOS1  I  NDS  Brltiah  lnti-rn.ition.il.  —  The 
have  ■  no  .it  a  problem  ill  k  and 

(Jan.) 

I  OTTBRY  BRIDE,  THE— United  Artists.— The 
nald,  who  goes  in 

\nd  the  music  is  grand. 

LOVE  AMONG  THE  MILLIONAIRES— Para- 
mount.—Clara  How  gets  much  too  cute  in  this  Iuke- 
i   musical  comedy.     (Sept.) 

LOVE  IN  THE  RINC — Terra  Productions.— Mix 
rmany  movie,  bet  ore  he  won 
the  title.     As   in  actor,  he's  a  good  tighter.     (Oct.) 

LOVE  IN  THE  ROUGH  — M-G-M.— Golf,  ro- 

slatvstick  and  music.      You'll  like  it  if  you 
don't  take  it  too  seriously.     (Oct.) 

LOVE  RACKET.  THE— First  National — The de- 

if  pretty  Dorothy  Mackaill  buried 
nder  a  heavy  dramatic  rdle.    (Oct.) 

LOVE  TRADER.  THE— Tiffany  Productions. — 
•  Joy.  blonde  and  beautiful,  in  a  seductive 
an  locale.    See  it  for  Leatrice.     (Dec.) 

*\l  \D\M  SATAN— M-G-M.— Another  lavish 
DeMille  spectacle.  A  dull  wife  acquires  a  French 
•   and  risque  clothes  to  win  back  her  husband. 
You'll  enjoy  Kay  Johnson  and  Reginald  Denny.  (Oct.) 

M  VDONNA  OF  THE  STREETS— Columbia.— 
Evelyn   Brent  triumphs  1  yarn  about  the 

regeneration  of  a  lady  crook. 

•      MVNSI    U'GHTER—  Paramount.— The      si- 
lent version  was  great  in  its  day.  but  the  talkie 
-  vocalized  tilms.     Fine  emotional  drama 
1   by    F'rednc    March    and   Claudette   Colbert. 

M  \N    TO  M  \N  -Warners.— (Reviewed  under  the 

i  John's  Boy.")     A  father  returns  to  face 

en  years  in  prison.   Grant  Mitchell 

and  Phillips   Holmes  are  good,  but  the   picture   isn't 

alwa;  .;.     (Dae) 

MAN    TRIM  RLE—  Fox.— Underworld   stuff,   but 
■g.      Milton    Sills   sensation.' 
r   and   Dorothy    Mackaill   plays  appealingly. 

■ 

M  WBE  IT'S  LOVE— Warners— Maybe  it's  love. 
but  it  isn't  college.  Gridiron  scenes  are  good.  Joan 
Bennett  and  James  Hall  provide  the  love.     (Oct.) 

MEDICINE  MAN.  THE— Tiffany  Productions  — 
Prettv  good  hokum,  but  you  could  afford  to  miss  it. 
(•*<•.".'.) 

MEN    OF   THE    NORTH— M-G-M.— (Reviewed 

Under  the  title  "!  ■  Fox.")     Just  another 

Story  of  the  Noithwest.     (Oct.) 


Ml    N    Ul  I  11(11     I    I    \U 

igbty. 

M  in    \nii  BO  i 
pldls  '  ii  k.      Howrvi  i .   Marie 

■  l  ,ii  ti.    -.-. 

Mlsltl  II  \\  INI.  I   Mill  s     I ■,,  i   N  uMoo  .1  —Tln- 
ll    laugh    -it    lli'in,   and 

nda  ii  the 

*MHH\    lili    k  -Captain 

irch  for  the  white  whale,   tM'.v  Dick, 
la  full  of  thrills.    John  Barrymore  pi  le  role 

•  miss  this,     (I  ><t.) 

•     MONTE CARLO-   Paramount      Witty,  pi- 
quant operetta  In  tin-  beat  Lubitach  manner. 

igs  gloriously.     (Oct.) 

*M(IK()<  (  O      Pal  .urn  mnt. —Tin-  ■ 
,    \1  ii  lene   Dii  trt  '..  will     ur  up  a 
storm.    And  <  ■  n 

Mm  m  Ks  i  ki  National.— A  beat    ell  i 

!  picture,  chiefly  by  the  superb  Befe- 
ll the  mother.    I  Dan  ■) 


* 
raeli' 


OLD    I  Nt.i  inii  Don't    i 

ukrd  "Dis- 

yi.u  II  i 


•       UNI     III    \\  I  N|    \    NM.II  I 
wed  under  the  i  I 
■  l.il   "i     \  in 


Producer  Announcements 

ofj\ew  Pictures 

and  Stars 

While  all  good  advertising  is  news, 
we  consider  producer  advertising 
of  particular  interest  to  our  read- 
ers With  this  directory  you  easily 
can  locate  each  announcement: 

First  National  Pictures  . .  Page  1 1 

Fox  Film Page  9 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer..Page  14 
Paramount  Pictures  .  .  .  Page  4 

Radio  Pictures Page  109 

Warner  Bros Page  7 


MURDER—  British  International.— Smart  and 
entertaining  mystery  drama  with  a  travelling  stock 
company  as  the  background  and  a  first-rate  amateur 
detective.      (Jan.) 

MY  PAST— Warners.— (Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Ex-Mistress.")  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bebe  Danieb — par- 
don! The  Ben  I.yonses  in  an  ultra-modern  love 
story  which  is  highly  entertaining. 

N  \UGHTY  FLIRT.  THE— First  National.— -Alice 
White  as  an  heiress  pursued  by  fortune-hunters. 
.  action,  peppy  dialogue,  gorgeous  clothes.  F'irst- 
rate  entertainment.     (Oct.) 

•  NEW  moon  -  M-G-M.  Music  drama  of  the 
first  rate,  with  the  greatest  singing  combina- 
tion on  the  screen,  Metropolitan  Opera's  Lawrence 
Tibbett  and  it,  drama,  beauty, 

melody  combine  in  a  real  musical  smash.      (Jan.) 

•  OFFICE  WIFE.  THE  —  Warners.  —  Dorothy 
.  rl  who  starts  out  to  vamp  her 
employer,  played  by  Lewis  Stone,  and  ends  by  falling 
in  love  with  dim.  A  sophisticated,  but  human  and 
convincing  story'-    {Oct.) 

OH.  FOR  A  MAN!— Fox— A  bright  and  merry 
farce  about  a  pud  Opera  star  who  loves  a  burglar. 
Reginald  Denny's  the  burglar,  and  Jeanette  M.ic- 
Donald  is  the  song-bird  who  falls  for  him.      (Jan.) 

OH  SAILOR  BEHAVE— Warners.— Lowell  Sher- 
man is  a  swell  comedy  prince.  Otherwise  it's  not  so 
good,  dramatically  or  musically.     (Sept.) 


ONE  MAD  KISS  ...ung 

ment 
foi   i    lUsfaclon  evening,    1 1 

(INI       NM.II  I       \  I      SI    Nil     N  :,|  — 

One  night  at  Susies  ll  enough  of  tUa  *ort  ■>(  thing. 

Blllll  -  ,i  chorine.     (Sept.) 

oni  \    s  KM   WORE 
Errolandhi  rawa>  with  this  comedy 

about  lovers  and  thlei 

•    ON    vol  it    ii\ck     Pea      Irene    Ri.  li    In 
Dnable  New  Vork 
modiste,    ■  rplendid  In  an  Interesting  pit  mr.-.    (St pi.) 

OTHER  Ml  n  s  uumi  n 
under  the UUe "The  Steel  Hlghwu!  "  I  i.nni  Withers 
railrii.nl    bai  kground. 
l-.iirK  i  ntertaining     i Dec) 

*(ll    R  Ml  I   SUING  BRIDF.s 
must  see  Joan  Crawford  in  i 
Swell   box-office   picture,  with   Anita   Page,   Robert 
Montgomery    and    some   more   popular   youngsters. 

{■Sept.) 

OUTSIDE  THE  I  VK  !.— Too  much  di- 

alogue and  loo  little  action.    (Oct.) 

•     OUTWARD  BOUND— War 
sail.     Eight  chat  in  board.    AH  are 

dead  bound  for  the  Hereafter.  A  daring  ; 
finery  produced  anil  acted  by  Doug  Fairbanl 
Helen  Chandler,  Leslie  Howard.    For  adult*.    (Nor.) 

•     PAID     M-G  M.— (Reviewed    under  the  title 
"Within  the  Law.")     Jn-t  wait   until 
Joan  Crawford  in  this  powerful dstamatii  i6li-'    1  hi- 
story is  absorbing  and  Joan  is  simply  grand.    (Jan.) 

PARADISE  ISLAND— Tiffany  Productions.— 
This  struggles  along  in  a  South  Sea  Island  setting. 
(Sept.) 

PARDON  MY  GUN—  Pathe—  A  Western  comedy 
with   not  a  dull   moment.     Two  champion   jui 
trick  riders  and  ropers  outdo  Will   Rogers. 

PART  TIME  WIFE— Fox— Hokum,  but  enter- 
taining. Eddie  Lowe  maJkes  grand  work  oi  a  funny 
r61e  and  little  Tommy  "Son.:  :l     <  hfford 

is  a  natural.      (Jan.) 

PASSION  FLOWER  — MG-M— Charles  Bick- 
ford.  Kay  Johnson  and  Kay  Francis  form  the  good 
■  Id  eternal  triangle.  IntcresUng  people  in  a  good 
film.      (Jan.) 

PAY  OFF.  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Lnwell  Sher- 
man as  a  dress-suit  crook  it  •  icated 
crook  drama.     It's  a  pip.     (  .'• 

PHANTOM  OF  THE  DESERT.  THE -Syndi- 
cate.— Jack  Perrin  in  a  true-t  I  rn.  Plenty 
of  hard  ridin'  and  fast  shootin'.    (Feb.) 

IMNCHOT'S    SOUTH    SEA     <   Kl    ISE— Travel- 
—The  ex-governor  of  Pennsylvania  tot  • 
interesting  pictures  of  a  South  Seas  -tudio 

faking  in  this  one.     (Jan.) 

PLAYBOY  OF  PARIS— Paramount— Chevalier 
deserves  better  than  this  light  Faroe,  which  i«  amus- 
ing only  in  spots.  And  only  two  so  '  ,  lricel 
(Sov.) 

PRINCESS  kND  III!  I'M  Mill  R.  THE— Fox. 
— A   young    American   milli  I  irrell) 

and  a  beautiful  princess  I  Maureen  0' Sullivan).  You 
know  what  happens — a  harmless  little  light  comedy. 
(Feb.) 

•  RAFFLES — United  Artists.— Ronald  Cnlman. 
as  an  English  gentleman-thief,  charms  even 
while  he  cops  the  jools.  A  talkie  that  moves,  and 
entertainingly!    (Sept.) 

RAIN  OR  SHINE— Columbia.— Joe  Cook's  talkie 
dfbut.    A  circus  story  with  a  punch  finish.    (Oct.) 

RANGO — Paramount. —A  stirring  jungle  picture 
with  a   real  '  -gnincent.     Different.     Don't 

mistake  it  for  "just  another  wild  animal  picture." 
(Feb.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  16  ] 

15 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  <  OM'IM  1,1)  FKOM  PACE  15  ] 


REACHING    FOR  THE  MOON— United    \rt- 
Doug  Fairbanks  boundi  through  a  dizi 
.1  go-getting  stock  broker.    Different  for  Doug 

-.  •  ry  merry-     Bebe  Daniels  is  the  big  romance. 
(Feb.) 

REDUCING — M-G-M.     M  ler  and  Polly 

Mr. hi  cut  up  in  a  beauty  p;irlor.    Need  we  add  you'll 
die  laughing?    1 1 

REMOTE    CONTROL— M-G-M. — Billy    H 

tdio  announcer.   A  great  chance  for  laughs  and 

they  haven't  been  overlooked.     (Dec.) 

RENEGADES— Fox. — Warner   Baxter  in   an  ex- 
citing store  of  the  Foreign  Legion,  with  Myrna  Loy 
feminine  spy.     (Jon.) 

RENO— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— Ruth  Roland's 
screen  comeback.  She  looks  beautiful  but  her  acting 
is  hopelessly  old-fashioned.  If  there  was  a  story,  it 
got   lost   i"  the  making.     (Sept.) 

RIGHT  TO  LOVE,  THE— Paramount.— Ruth 
(  hatterton  in  a  real  dramatic  gem.  Ruth  and  the 
technicians  collaborate  in  putting  over  the  most  con- 
vincing dual  r61e  ever  filmed.    (Feb.) 

RIVER'S  END— Warners. — A  lusty  Curwood  he- 
Story,  with  Charles  Bickford  in  a  dual  r61e.     (Dec.) 

ROAD  TO  PARADISE— First  National— Twin 
ire  at  it  again,  complicating  movie  plots.      Lo- 
r   tta  Young  plays  both  girls,  one  a  crook,  the  other  a 
wealthy  and  noble  young  lady.     (Oct.) 

ROUGH  WATERS— Warners.— Another  personal 
success  for  Rin-Tin-Tin.  The  children  will  love  it. 
(Oct.) 

ROYAL  BED,  THE— Radio  Pictures— Lowell 
Sherman  directs  himself  in  a  smart,  amusing  comedy 
about  modern  royalty.  Mary  Astor  is  a  gorgeous 
princess  and  the  veteran  Nance  O'Neil,  a  grand 
queen.    (Feb.) 

•  ROYAL  FAMILY  OF  BROADWAY.  THE 
— Paramount. — A  brilliantly  done  comedy  of 
actors  at  home.  Fredric  March  does  the  work  of  his 
life.  Ina  Claire  is  marvelous.  Don't  miss  this  one. 
(Feb.) 

SANTA  FE  TRAIL,  THE— Paramount.— Richard 
Arlen  in  his  cowboy  suit.  Indians.  And  Mitzi 
Green!     If  you  like  Westerns,  all  right.     (Nov.) 

SAP  FROM  SYRACUSE,  THE— Paramount- 
Jack  Oakie's  bubbling  personality  puts  this  across. 
Jack  plays  a  good-natured  boob  who  masquerades  as 
a  famous  engineer.     No  panic,  but  good.     (Oct.) 

SCANDAL  SHEET— Paramount.— A  great  news- 
paper drama  with  George  Bancroft  as  the  managing 
editor  and  Kay  Francis  as  his  wife.  A  meaty  movie 
with  a  knockout  kick.    (Feb.) 

SCARLET  PAGES— First  National.— Elsie  Fer- 
guson's talkie  debut,  from  her  stage  play.  Elsie  is 
interesting  as  a  woman  attorney.     (Sept.) 

SCOTLAND  YARD— Fox.— A  rattling  good 
crime  story  with  that  rattling  good  actor.  Edmund 
I, owe-,  playing  a  dual  role.  This  film  packs  a  wallop. 
(Jan.) 

SEA  GOD,  THE— Paramount.— Wild  adventure, 
pearl  diving,  cannibals — a  real  movie.  Richard 
Arlen  and  Kay  Wray  provide  the  love  interest, 
(Nor.) 

SEA  LEGS— Paramount.— In  spite  of  Jack  Oakie, 
Harry  Green  and  Eugene  Pallette,  this  comedy  isn't 
very  comical.      (Jan.) 

•     SEA   WOLF,   THE— Fox.— Again  Jack  Lon- 
don's famous  Wolf  Larsen  takes  the  screen— 

with   sound.      Milton  Sills  played    Wolf  beautifully. 
His  last  picture,  and  a  noble  thriller.     (Nov.) 

SEE  AMERICA  THIRST— Universal.— A  two- 
reel  plot  stretched  over  a  full-length  film  induces 
sleepiness.  Langdon  and  Summerville  do  their  best 
to   make   it    funny.      (Jan.) 

SHADOW  RANCH— Columbia.— Buck  Jones' 
new  Western  is  a  crackerjack.    (Dec) 

SHE  COT  WHAT  SHE  WANTED— Cruzc-Tif- 
fariy. — An  hotirf  ul  of  guffaws  over  old  man  Boris  and 
his  philandering  wife.  Betty  Compson's  the  wife  and 
darn  good's  the  picture.     (Dec.) 

SHOOTING  STRAIGHT— R?dio  Pictures.— A 
deft  mingling  of  under-world  drama  and  comedy  gives 
Richard  Dut  his  best  part  in  a  long  time.     (Sept.) 

16 


SILVER    HORDE,   THE— Radio   Pictures.— Rex 
salmon-fishing  thriller  makes  a  tingling  phon- 
oplay    and    Evelyn    Brent    makes    a    brand    new   hit. 
(Dec.) 

SINNERS'  HOLIDAY  — Warners.  —  (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Women  in  Love.")  Just  as  a  change  of 
Scenery  the  gangsters  move  out  of  the  honky-tonks 
to  an  amusement  pier.  Grant  Withers  is  the  hero. 
(Oct.) 

SIN  SHIP,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Louis  Wol- 
lieim,  as  actor  and  director,  attempts  a  romantic 
r6le.    Disappointing.      (Jan.) 

•  SIN  TAKES  A  HOLIDAY— Pathe.— Don't 
miss  this.  Constance  Bennett,  beautiful 
clothes,  smart  dialogue  and  a  working-girl-boss  ro- 
mance that  has  a  real  kick.     A  honey.     (Jan.) 

SISTERS— Columbia.— Sally  O'Neil  and  Molly 
O'Day  as  sisters,  one  rich,  the  other  poor.  Fair. 
(Sept.) 

SIT  TIGHT— Warners.— Joe  E.  Brown  and  Win- 
nie Lightner  repeat  manv  of  their  monkey-shines. 
But  they're  still  funny.     (Dec.) 


^^UsTTlsO-uSL* 


He  represents  the  very 
acme  of  knowledge  and 
authority  on  style  and 
fashion. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  praise 
him.  Meet  him  on  Pages 
61  to  64  of  this  issue.  He 
writes  only  for 

Photoplay 


SLUMS  OF  TOKYO— Schochiko  Film  Co.— 
Silent  Japanese-made  film,  supposed  to  be  "art." 
Drab  story.     (Sept.) 

SOLDIER'S  PLAYTHING,  A— Warners.— If  you 
like  romance  seasoned  with  plenty  of  laughs,  some 
slap-stick  and  hot  thrills,  catch  this.     (Oct.) 

SON  OF  THE   SADDLE— Universal.— A  Ken 

Maynard  Western  with  plenty  of  hard  riding,  gun 
play  and  action.    (Oct.) 

SOUP  TO  NUTS— Fox.  — Rube  Goldberg's 
grandly  goofy  cartoons,  his  fantastic  inventions  and 
treak  statues,  are  all  in  this  hilarious  film.  You'll  like 
it,     (Oct.) 

SOUS  LES  TOITS  DE  PARIS  (Under  the  Roofs 

of  Paris) — Tobis. — Skilful  pantomine  makes  this 
enjoyable  French  dialogue  picture  comprehensible 
without  knowledge  of  that  language.  Two  of  the 
songs  are  hummers.    (Feb.) 

•  SPOILERS,  THE— Paramount. — Gary  Cooper 
and  William  Boyd  stage  a  battle  wilder  than 
the  memorable  fight  between  William  Farnuin  and 
Tom  Santschi,  which  made  screen  history.  Red 
meat  melodrama,  packed  with  action,  suspense  and 
thrills.      (Nov.) 

SPURS  —  Universal.  —  Here's  hard-ridin'  Hoot 
Gibson  in  a  Western  that's  a  Western.  It's  fast, 
from  the  first  shot  to  the  last.     (Nov.) 

SOUEALER.  THE — Columbia.— If  you  can  stand 
another  gangster  picture,  this  one  has  some  new 
ideas.  Well  acted  by  Jack  Holt,  Dorothy  Revicr 
and  Davey  Lee.     (A7 or.) 

STORM,  THE— Universal.— This  storm  is  no 
tornado.  A  very  tame  melodrama.  Even  Lupe 
Velei  is  tame  as  the  little  girl  of  the  Great  Northwest. 
(Nov.) 


STORM  OYER  ASIA— Amkino.— Another  of  the 
poweriul  Revolutionary  pictures  from  Soviet   ' 
dramatizing  the  Communist  revolt  against  the  White 
Army  in  1918.     A  smash  ending.    Silent.     (Nov.) 

•     SUNNY— First   National. — Single  or  not,  it's 
a  gem.      Radiant   Marilyn   Miller  smashes  it 
across.     (Dec.) 

SUSPENSE— British  International.— A  war  story 
and  a  pretty  slow  one.  Vic  McLaglen's  brother  Cyri! 
is  in  it.      (Jan.) 

SWEETHEARTS  AND  WIVES— First  National. 
—  Billie  Dove's  best  talkie.  Mystery  farce,  with 
Clive  Brook  being  very  farcical.     (Sept.) 

SWEETHEARTS  ON  PARADE— Columbia- 
Just  another  pure  little  country  girl  among  the  bad, 
big-tc*n  milh  nair?s.  Alice  Win-.:  is  the  tweet 
young  thing.     (Nov.) 

•  SWEET  KITTY  BELLAIRS— Warner- —  \ 
dainty  operetta,  beautifully  photographed  in 
Technicolor.  Claudia  Dell,  charming  new  star,  is 
Kitty;  Waller  Pidgeon,  the  baritone  hero.     (Nov.) 

SWEET  MAMA— First  National.— If  you're  an 
Alice  White  fan  this  won't  seem  so  weak.     (Sept.) 

TEMPTATION — Columbia.— Unpretentious  and 
pleasant  love  story.  Lois  Wilson  and  Lawrence 
Gray.    (Sept.) 

TEN  NIGHTS  IN  A  BARROOM— Willis  Kent 
Production.  —  Old-fashioned  maudlin  melodrama, 
elaborately  overacted.  The  villain  is  Demon  Rum. 
(Nov.) 

THIRD  ALARM,  THE— Tiffany  Productions- 
Out  come  the  old  fire  engines  to  make  a  bit 
But  no  matter  how  hard  Jimmy   Hall  and   Hobarl 
Bosworth  try,  it's  just  one  of  those  things.    (Jan.) 

THOROUGHBRED,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— W.  sley  "Freckles"  Barry  is  the  nice  little  jockey 
hero  of  a  nice  little  horse  story  for  the  family  trade. 
(Not.) 

THOSE  THREE  FRENCH  GIRLS— M-O-M  — 

Not  even  Reginald  Denny  and  Ukelele  Ike  make  this 

unfunny    hodge-podge    worth    while.       Fifi    I 

Yola  D'Avril  and  Sandra  Ravel  are  the  girls,     i  Nor.) 

THOSE  WHO  DANCE— Warners.— Monte  Blue, 
in  another  underworld  story  that  doesn't  ring  true. 
(Sept.) 

TODAY — Majestic. — One  of  those  sensationals — 
all  hell,  sex  and  box-office.  Hokum,  but  there's  Con- 
rad Xagel  to  hold  you.     (Dec.) 

•     TOL'ABLE    DAVID— Columbia.— A    pretty 
grand  film,  excellently  directed,  and  beautifully 
acted  by  the  newcomer,  Richard  Cromwell.    (Jan.) 

*TOM  SAWYER— Paramount,— Jackie  Coo- 
gan.  Mitzi  Green.  Junior  Durkin — real  kids  in 
the  great  kid  classic.  A  corking  picture.  Don't  miss 
it.   And  by  all  means,  don't  let  the  kids.    (Dec.) 

TOO  YOUNG  TO  MARRY— First  National.— 
(Reviewed  under  the  title  "Broken  Dishes.")  Grand 
satire  on  family  life.     O.   P.   Heggie  the  henpecked 

father,  Loretta  Young  and  Grant  Withers  the  young 
lovers.     Full  of  fun.     (Sept.) 

TRUTH  ABOUT  YOUTH— First  National.— 
Starts  out  to  be  a  tenderly  wistful  story  of  youth  and 
turns  i  nto  a  stereotyped  April  and  November  romance. 
(Oct.) 

TWO  WORLDS— British  International— An 
honest,  dramatic  story  of  inter-racial  clashes — prob- 
ably the  best  of  the  recent  English  films.    (Feb.) 

UNDER  MONTANA  SKIES— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Slim  Summerville  saves  a  pretty  weak  picture 
about  a  stranded  showgirl.    (Feb.) 

UNDER  SUSPICION— Fox.— You  may  not  care 

what  happens  to  Lois  Moran  and  her  Northwest 
Mountie,  but  you'll  get  your  money's  worth  of  gor- 
geous scenery.     (Jo  n.) 

UP  THE  RIVER — Fox. — The  lighter  side  of  prison 
life,  and  very  amusing.  Spencer  Tracy  is  grand. 
(Dec.) 

VIENNESE  NIGHTS  —  Warners.  —  The  best 
operetta  in  recent  months — with  oh,  what  waltzesl 
Vivienne  Segal  and  Alexander  Gray  sing  the  love 
songs.     ( Nov.) 

VIRTUOUS  SIN,  THE— Paramount.— Torrid 
love  in  frigid  Russia.  Kay  Francis  and  Walter  Huston 
are  simply  grand.     (Dec.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  137  ] 


Photoplay  Magazini  ior  Mabct,  1931 


10  low 

salaried  women 

Lo  wives 

keeping  a  budget 

lo  men 

just  getting  a  start 

-this  delightful 


Bffi*      *» 


V 


<c 


' 


i 


looth  Xaste  saves  you  $3  a  year .  . 


WHY  don't  you  save  ?3  a  year  or 
more  by  using  Listerine  Tooth 
Paste  at  25£  instead  of  high-priced  denti- 
frices that  accomplish  no  better  results? 
Listerine  looth  Paste  is  used  by  more 
than  three  million  people.  To  a  great 
many  of  them,  price  is  no  object.  Results 
are  their  sole  basis  of  judgment.  And  the 
results  of  Listerine  Tooth  Paste  are  so 
quickly  apparent,  once  you  try  it,  that 
you  will  wonder  why  you  didn't  use  it 
long  ago. 


Buy  Silk  Hose  With 
That  $3  It  Saves 

Compared  to  dentifrices  in  the  50c 
class,  Listerine  Tooth  Paste  at  25c 
saves  approximately  $3  a  year  per 
person,  on  the  basis  of  a  tube  per 
month  being  used.  With  that  $3  you 
can  buy  many  things,  stockings, 
gloves,  and  razor  blades  are  merely 
suggestions. 


This  dentifrice  is  made  by  the  makers 
of  Listerine,  the  safe  antiseptic.  1  his 
alone  guarantees  its  quality.  1  hat  it  can 
be  sold  at  2?£  is  due  to  sharp  economies 
effected  by  mass  production  and  modern 
methods  of  manufacture. 

If  you  have  not  already  used  Listerine 
Tooth  Paste,  get  a  tube  today.  Give  it  a 
thorough  trial.  Compare  it  with  any 
tooth  paste  you  have  ever  used  regardless 
of  price,  and  judce  by  results  alone.  They 
will  win  you  to  this  new  thrift  dentifrice  as 
they  won  three  million  people  before  you. 

We  ask  you  to  note  how  little  brushing 
is  necessary  to  impart  to  your  teeth  a 
charming,  flashing  brilliance.  Note,  too, 
how  swiftly  but  how  gently  this  tooth 
paste  removes  the  stains,  discolorations, 
and  stubborn  tartar. 

After  you  have  used  it  six  months  or  a 
year,  look  at  your  teeth  and  see  how  free 
thev  are  from  cracks  and  fissures.  That  is 


because  the  cleansing  and  polishing  agents 
in  Listerine   Tooth  Paste  are  among  the 

gentlest  known.  They  are  harder  than 
tartar  and  hence  remove  it.  But  they  are- 
softer  than  enamel  and  consequently  are 
harmless  to  it. 

Look,  too,  for  that  delightful  feelinc  of 
freshness  and  exhilaration  that  follows  its 
use — the  sensation  you  associate  with 
Listerine  itself. 

And  last  but  not  least,  reflect  that  these 
benefits  are  yours  for  about  half  of  what 
you  would  ordinarily  pay.  Lambert  Phar- 
macal  Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  I .  S.  A. 


The   makers  of  Listerine  Tooth   Paste   recommend   Pro-phy-lac-tic  Tooth   Brushes 

Listerine  Tooth  Paste..  25^ 


When  you  write  to  idTertlsers  ple»se  mention  PHOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Friendly  Advice  from  Carolyn  Van  Wyck 


on 


Girls'  Problems 


'•  T"F  your  eyes  are  blue,  use  a  smudge  of  blue 

I  eve  shadow  on  the  upper  lid  to  bring  out 

-*-tiieir  color,  especially  under  artificial  light. 

If    they    arc    green,    use    green    eye-shadow." 

That's  tin-  advice  of  Tom  Cameron,  make-up 

expert  at  I'aramount's  New  York  Studio. 

Mr.  Cameron  says  it's  an  old  stage  trick  to 
match  eye-shadow  to  the  iris  of  the  eye.  That's 
so  those  in  the  topmost  galleries,  who  can't 
really  see  the  actor's  eyes,  feel  that  they  can 
look  right  at  them  and  identify  the  color.  And, 
it's  a  trick  that  enhances  the  beauty  of  all 
feminine  eyes,  he  belii 

When  he  was  nineteen  years  old  he  played 
the  part  of  a  sixty-live-year-old  man  in  a  stage 
play.  Right  then  he  began  developing  the  art 
of  make-up.  Other  actors  asked  his  advice, 
and  now  he  is  one  of  the  recognized  authorities 
in  his  profession.  For  more  than  six  years  he 
has  been  on  the  Paramount  staff. 

Mr.  Cameron  says  that  all  make-up,  even 
for  the  street,  should  begin  with  a  smooth 
foundation.  Either  one  must  have  a  naturally 
smooth  skin,  or  a  foundation  cream  or  liquid 
should  be  used  before  applying  powder  and 
other  cosmetics. 

A  line  of  dark  pencil  right  at  the  edge  of  the 
upper  lid  will  give  the  eyes  depth.  Eyebrows 
are  groomed  with  a  small  brush,  and  light  ones 
are  skilfully  penciled. 

I  have  always  thought,  and  so  do  many 
beauty  experts,  that  a  thin-lipped  mouth  looks 
better  if  rouged  only  in  the  center,  to  give  it 
fullness.  But  Mr.  Cameron  disagrees  with  me. 
He  says  that  lip  rouge  should  always  be  drawn 
back  to  the  corners  of  the  mouth.  That  the 
way  the  mouth  recedes  into  the  corners  gives 
it  its  greatest  beauty,  and  this  should  be  em- 
phasized if  the  lips  are  rouged  at  all.  You'll 
have  to  test  it  out,  yourselves,  girls,  and  decide 
which  of  us  is  right  in  your  own  case. 

He  believes  that  lipstick  and  rouge  should 
simply  intensify  one's  natural  color,  not  change 
it,  and  that  they  should  be  chosen  with  that 
idea.  Of  course,  for  the  panchromatic  film  now 
used  in  talkies,  a  brownish-red  lipstick  is  the 
best  choice  in  most  cases. 


A  XD  he  points  out  one  serious  fault  in  mouth 
-**-make-up.  He  says:  "That  little  depression 
between  the  base  of  the  nose  and  the  center  of 
the  upper  lip  can  be  changed  from  a  mark  of 
beauty  to  a  distortion  by  rouging  the  upper 
lip  in  a  sharp  V  instead  of  the  softer  U  shape 
it  takes  naturally.'' 

I  watched  him  make  up  the  mouth  of  a  girl 
who  was  to  play  a  "  bit  "  that  day  and  was  un- 
familiar with  screen  make-up.  He  used  a  small, 
flat  red  sable  brush  such  as  any  artist  employs 
for  portrait  painting.  As  he  ap- 
plied the  lip  paste  at  one  corner  of 
the  girl's  mouth,  his  hand  slipped 
a  trifle,  making  a  tiny,  downward 
line. 

That  almost  imperceptible  line 
gave  the  player  a  lugubrious  ex- 
pression that  hadn't  been  there  a 
moment  before.  Which  proves  how 
careful  one  must  be  in  applying 
make-up.  No  smearing  on  of  lip- 
stick in  dark  theaters,  before  the 
lights  go  on.  Better  to  apply  it  in 
full  view  of  the  audience,  which 
isn't  in  particularly  good  taste  but 
at  least  prevents  disfiguring  effects  I 

Mr.  Cameron  has  discovered  one 
little  trick  that  adds  a  lot  to  the 
shapeliness  of  the  mouth.  He  takes 
an  ordinary  pipe  cleaner — one  of 


Tom  Cameron,  make-up  spe- 
cialist at  Paramount's  New 
York  Studio,  instructs  a  player 
in  the  art  of  screen  make-up 


those  short,  chenille-covered  wires — and  with 
it  he  wipes  carefully  around  the  mouth.  He 
uses  it,  too,  in  the  corners  of  the  eyes  and  at 
the  nostrils,  after  applying  powder. 

He  thinks  that  the  girl  with  clear  skin  and 
dark  hair  looks  better  without  rouged  cheeks, 
or  with  just  a  touch  of  color.  That  it  makes  a 
more  interesting  contrast  between  complexion, 
hair  and  lips  if  only  lip  rouge  is  used.  That 
blondes  can  use  cheek  rouge  to  much  better 
advantage,  and  the  fairer  they  are  the  more 
rouge  they  can  stand.  Of  course,  this  applies 
only  to  street  make-up,  as  no  rouge  is  used  on 
the  cheeks  in  making  up  for  the  screen,  except 
for  color  films. 

But  he  has  no  cut-and-dried  rules  for  all 


ARE  you  overweight?  Send  for  my  booklet  of 
normalizing  exercises  and  non-fattening 
menus.  Are  you  troubled  with  blackheads  or 
acne?  My  complexion  leaflet  will  help  you.  A 
stamped,  self-addressed  envelope  will  bring  you 
either,  or  both,  or  any  other  advice  on  personal 
problems.  There  is  no  charge  and  your  letters  will 
be  held  in  strict  confidence. 


types.  Like  all  those  who  make  a  study  of 
make-up,  he  believes  that  it  should  be  adapted 
to  the  individual. 

Liquid  or  paste  rouge  should  be  applied  be- 
fore powder,  of  course,  and  dry  rouge  after- 
wards, with  a  final  pat  of  the  puff  to  blend  the 
edges. 

Skilful  blending  is  one  of  the  most  important 
points  in  make-up,  according  to  Dick  Willis, 
the  make-up  expert  at  Warner's  Vitaphone 
Studios,  in  New  York,  where  several  hundred 
one-  and  two-reel  pictures  and  screen  tests  are 
completed  every  year.  Mr.  Willis  calculates 
that  he  has  made  up  about  fifteen  hundred 
faces  since  he  joined  the  Yitaphone  staff  two 
years  ago. 

Y\ 7HEX  Otis  Skinner,  veteran  stage  star  and 
w  star  of  the  First  National  picture, 
"Kismet,"  took  a  screen  test  at  the  Yitaphone 
studios,  Mr.  Willis  wasdiffidentaboutofferinghis 
services  as  make-up  man.  After  all,  Mr.  Skinner 
had  been  making  up  for  the  difficult  character 
role  of  Ilajj,  the  beggar,  for  many  years  on  the 
stage,  and  his  experience  covered  almost  as  many 
years  as  Mr.  Willis'  whole  life.  But,  even  the 
clever  Mr.  Skinner  bowed  before  Dick  Willis' 
knowledge  of  screen  make-up. 

So,  when  Mr.  Willis  says  that  to  leave  sharp 
edges  where  there  should  be  soft  ones  and  to 
leave  "fuzzy"  outlines  where  they  should  be 
well-defined  can  spoil  the  most  painstaking 
make-up,  those  are  words  we  can  all  heed. 

Right  now,  there  is  a  vogue  in  movie  circles 
for  cheeks  that  "hollow,"  to  go  with  the  "ro- 
mantic" trend  in  clothes  and  figures.  Round, 
plump  faces  do  not,  Hollywood  thinks,  express 
the  new  mood.  Girls  have  discovered  that  a 
little  dark  grease  paint,  patted  into  the  regular 
make-up  on  both  cheeks  makes  them  look 
properly  romantic  and  seductive. 

But,  be  careful.  You  may  duplicate  Xancy 
Carroll's  experience.  Nancy,  you  know,  has 
healthily  rounded  cheeks.  And  she  says  that 
no  amount  of  make-up  can  make  her  look 
properly  wan,  and  that  she  only  succeeds  in 
looking  dirty-faced! 

Dolores  A.: 

You  can  wear  almost  any  color,  Dolores,  but 
the  vivid  and  intense  shades  are  especially  be- 
coming to  you.  An  exception  to  this  is  pink, 
which  will  be  most  becoming  in  pale  hues.  Red 
and  deep  rose  should  be  becoming;  clear  yellow, 
rich  blues,  deep  orchid,  black  with  color  touches, 
all  white,  gray  and  green  combinations  are  in 
keeping  with  your  coloring.  The  right  shades 
of  green  will  bring  out  the  green  in  your 
eyes  and  should  make  you  very  attractive. 

Simply  cut,  but  jaunty  clothes 
will  help  to  carry  out  your  type 
and  make  you  look  slimmer.  Be 
careful  in  choosing  evening  and 
party  frocks.  Remember  that  flow- 
ing lines  and  beauty  of  color  will 
have  to  take  the  place  of  frills  and 
trimming  for  a  girl  who  is  plump. 
The  new  season's  lines  for  evening 
wear  are  all  in  favor  of  your  type, 
so  that's  a  big  help! 


Address  me  at  PHOTOPLAY,  221  West  57th  Street, 
New  York  City. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


Anne  Pec: 

Get  yourself  a  small  hairbrush 
with  firm,  blunt  bristles  that  will 
not  scratch  your  scalp.  Its  use, 
night  and  morning,  will  quickly  re- 
store some  of  the  natural  oil  to 
your  hair.  Then,  with  warm  water 
or  one  [  please  turn  to  page  108  ] 


IS 


PHOTOW  \'.    M  \'.\/im     i  OB    M  \k.  li.l       I 


19 


"BEAUTY  that  Holds  You  Spellbound 

IS  YOURS 

/^////  //^  Magic  of  Hollywood's 
Make- Up  Secret 


FAY  WRAYt 

■junf,  saxs,  "Color 
harmony  in  make-up  is 
as  essential  as  the  fash- 
ions of  today." 


Almost  breathless 

..  .u  uli  your  eye*  fas- 
tened on  the  screen 
. . .  \  ou,  ami  millioni 

of  " \  OUS"  liavc    fell 

that  indescribable 
thrill  envelop  yon 
when  the  ravishing 
beauty  <>t  a  Nancy 
Carroll,  a  Mary 
l!ri.in,  a  )e.in  Arthur 
is  flashed  on  tin-  mo- 


tion   picture   screen. 
And   perhaps  you've 
remarked  ..."  I  low 
could  any  girl  be  so  alluringly  beautiful?" 

And  now. ..how  would  yen  like  to  gaze 
entranced  into  your  very  own  mirror... 
and  get  that  selfsame  thrill  from  a  vision 
of  loveliness,  a  new  beauty,  alluring  and 
fascinating. ..and  realize  that  the  charming 
reflection  is  actually  you,  yourself. 

Almost  too  good  to  be  true... yet  you 
can  experience  this  thrill  almost  tor  the 
asking. 

The  secret  is  a  new  kind  of  make-up 
created  by  Max  Factor,  Hollywood's  gen- 
ius of  make-up.  It  is  based  on  his  famous 
discovery  of  cosmetic  color  harmony,  which 
revolutionized  make-up  among  the  stars 
and  in  the  studios. 


C 


LILLIAN    ROTH, 

Paramount,  and  .Max 
ally-wood's 
Genius,  ap- 
proving the  correct  color 
"jmf       harmony  j  hade  in  face 


4Pr.i  amount. 
Factor,  He 
Make-L'p  C 
proving  the  1 


Max  Factor, 

Hollywood's  Make-Up 

Genius,  will  reveal  the 

secret  to  you  . . .  free 


7..FREE 

This  amazing  book  in 
which   60   famous  stars 
write  about  Make-L'p. 

MAX  FACTOR'S  Society  MAKE-UP 

"Cosmetics  of  the  Stars".  .  .  HOLLYWOOD 

96%  of  ill  make-up  including  Technicolor  used  by  Hollywood  Screen  Stars  and  Studios,  is  Mat  Fi 

(Lti  Angtlei  Cnimier  tf  Ctmmtrct  SuiuticiJ  €)SffJO  Mjx  Fatttf 


"In  twenty  odd  years  in  motion  pic- 
ture-., we  have  discovered  the  miracle 
of  make-up  uhich  every  woman  should 
knou,'\.i\  M..  I  ai  tor.  "  Individuality  and 
I ■<  onality  are  just  as  important  as  beauty, 
and  to  achieve  them  I  discovered  a  new 
idea  in   make-up.   Cotmetici  must  be  in 

Color  harmony  to  blend  not  only  wiih  in- 
dividual colorings,  but  also  to  harmonize 
in  the  make-up  ensemble.  I  created  colors 
in  powder,  rouge,  lipstick,  eyeshadow  and 
other  make-up  requisites  to  living  types  of 
matchless  beauty.  .  .  like  I. aura  LaPlante, 
Lupe  Velez,  Dorothy  Mackaill  .  .  .  blonde, 
brunette,  redhead  .  .  .  and  their  variations! 
Brownctte,  too,  and  ihcir  changes  in  com- 
plexion hue  ...  a  perfect  color  harmony 
in  make-up  for  each." 

No  other  cosmetics  in  the  world  arc 
created  in  this  amazing  way  .  .  .  and  none 
other  will  bring  you  such  amazing  beauty. 
For  .  .  .  remember  that  all  the  famous  stars 
of  Hollywood  in  all  the  big  motion  pic- 
ture studios,  including  Technicolor,  u<c 
Mav,  Factor's. 

Discover  Hollywood's  Make-Up  secret 
Now.  Send  to  Max  Factor  for  your  com- 
plexion analysis  and  make-up  color  har- 
mony chart.  Permit  Hollywood's  make- 
up genius  to  chart  your  own  individual 
color  harmony  in  Society  Make-Up  just 
lor  you  .  .  .  your  powder,  rouge,  lipstick, 
eyeshadow  and  other  essentials  to  blend 
magically  together  to  emphasize  every  bit 
of  beauty,  of  charm,  of  allure.  Then  look 
in  your  mirror  and  see  a  new  beauty  that 
holds  you  spellbound  .  .  .  experience  this 
thrill  of  a  lifetime. 

MARY  BRIAN  and  RICHARD  ARLEN 
in  a  scene  from 

"ONLY SstPS  WORK" 

Paramount' s  All-Talking  Comedy  Feature 
Makt-Uf  by  Max  Factor. 

MARY  BRIAN  'antes:  "The  naturalness  of 
lovely  beauty  is  the  reward  of  Make-L'p  in 
Color   Harmony  for  the  ..type.'' 


MAIL  FOR   YOUR  COMPLEXION  ANALYSIS 


Mji  Factor — Mji  Factor  Studios,  Hollywood.  Olif.  1-3- 34 


Dear  Sir:  Send  me  a  complimentary  copy  of  your  48-page  took,  TV  S'r»  A't  1 
of  Society  MJtt-Vp",  personal  complexion  analysis  and  makeup  color  harmony  ■ 


>/  Society  HJkt-l/p",  personal  complexion  analysis  . 
chart.    1  enclose  10  cents  to  cover  cost 
of  postage  and  handling 


COMruviON 


ilil 


COtOStASHtS  Dt, 


OOUOt  EYB 


ny  j 


■-.:-. ..■;  HAN 


^ACEJ_ 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


Newly  discovered!  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash 
kills  germs  5  to  11  times  faster!!  checks  bad  breath 
1  to  2  hours  longer  than  other  leading  antiseptics!!! 


"A  REVOLUTIONARY  antiseptic 
■**■  mouth  wash  that  destroys  germs 
5  times  faster  than  the  most  effective 
on  the  market  —  11*  times  faster  than 
many  ordinary  kinds." 

That  is  the  impressive  statement  of  two 
well-known  bacteriological  laboratories 
after  exhaustive  tests  on  Pepsodent  Anti- 
septic Mouth  Wash. 

From  Pepsodent  laboratories 

This  remarkable  discovery  is  a  new  and 
powerful  weapon  in  fighting  germ  infec- 
tions and  diseases.  It  combats,  immediately, 
the  social  evil  of  bad  breath. 

The  formula  comes  from  the  Pepsodent 
tooth  paste  laboratories,  whose  contri- 
bution to  dental  hygiene  has  won  high 
recognition.  Under  the  label  of  Pepso- 
dent Antiseptic  Mouth  Wash  it  is  being 
widely   distributed   in   the   public   interest. 

Cleanses— purifies  the  mouth 

The  active  agent  used  in  Pepsodent  Mouth 
Wash  as  determined  by  standard  tests,  is  220 
times  more  potent  than  pure  carbolic  acid, 


for  all  time  the  standard  germicide.     Pepsodent 
Mouth  Wash  is  non-poisonous,  safe  and  soothing . 

Immediately  after  using,  95%  of  the  germs  in 
the  mouth  are  destroyed.  Their  number  is 
still  reduced  70%  at  the  end  of  two  hours' 
time — that  is  far  longer  acting  than  many  other 
leading  mouth  washes. 

"We  find,"  states  one  laboratory,  "Pepsodent 
Mouth  Wash  kills  the  stubborn  pus-producing 
germs  (M.  Aureus)  in  10  seconds — faster  than 
is  even  claimed  for  other  leading  mouth  washes. 
Tests  prove  that  it  kills  in  10  seconds  germs  that 
cause  pneumonia,  diphtheria,  typhoid  fever, 
and  many  others." 

Checks  bad  breath 

With  this  revolutionary  discovery  comes 
a  social  safeguard:  remarkable  protection 
against  offensive  breath.  A  laboratory 
director  states:  "Tests  prove  conclusively 
that  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  overcomes 
bad  breath  1  to  2  hours  longer  than  many 
other     antiseptic     mouth     washes." 

At  your  druggist's — today 

Your  druggist  has  just  received  this  new 
discovery.      Go    today    and    get    a   bottle. 


Consult 

Your  Dentist, 

Physician 

In  the  opinion  of  some  au- 
thorities, most  breath  odors 
come  from  minor  causes.  If 
after  using  Pepsodent  Mouth 
Wash  bad  breath  persists  in 
returning,  seek  medical  and 
dental   advice    to   remove   the 


*Most  people  add  water  before 
using  a  mouth  wash.  Hence 
these  comparisons  are  based  on 
tests  using  one  part  of  mouth 
wash  tested  to  four  parts  of 
water.  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash 
is  highly  germicidal  mixed  with 
four  parts  of  water.  It  goes 
many  times  as  far  as  many  other 
mouth  washes. 

Costs  much  less 


Pepsodent  Antiseptic  Mouth  Wash 

A  revolutionary  mouth  wash  just  discovered  by  the  Pepsodent  tooth  paste  laboratories 


Every  advertisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZIXE  is  guaranteed. 


m 


fi^i 


PV 


4 


? 


■ 


M 


»-* 


GOOD  luck,  John  Gilbert!  You  deserve  it.  When  things 
look  black,  and  your  talkies  die  off,  you  keep  on  plugging 
like  a  good  trouper.  Here's  hoping  you  get  stories  that  will  put 
you  'way  up  in  the  running  again.  So.  up  and  at  'em.  Jack — may 
"Gentleman's   Fate,"  your  latest,  be  what  the  doctor  ordered! 


lohn    Gilbert    was   born    in 

Logan.  Utah,  July  10 

5  feet,  11;  wag) 

First  wife,  Leatnce  low  Now 

married  to  Ina  Claire 


^> 


V 


PHOTOPLAY'S  photographer  finds  three  famous  couples  hold- 
ing the  center  of  the  floor  at  Hollywood's  Mayfair  party, 
where  the  picture  players  go  most  social.  From  left  to  right  we 
have  Joan  Crawford  and  Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  Grant  Withers  and 
the  little  wife,  Loretta  Young.  Also  Douglas  Fairbanks  and  Lilyan 
Tashman.  Note  Joan's  gorgeous  lace  gown,  with  the  orchids  at 
the  shoulder.  With  his  producing  worries  over,  Doug,  Sr.,  is  a 
jolly  good  fellow  now 


Come  Along 

and  Dance 

With  the  Stars 


Hollywood 

at  Play 

At  Mayfair 


^p  WO  ladies  of  the  screen's  blood  royal  meet  for  a  chat  just 
*  outside  the  ballroom  at  the  Biltmore  Hotel  where  Holly- 
wood s  Mayfair  party  ,s  booming  along.  In  short,  Mary  P.ckford 
and  Gloria  Swanson  take  rime  out  from  dancing  to  talk  things  over 
They  re  telling  each  other  the  ball's  a  success.  Our  Mary'a 
white  frock  ,s  heavy  with  beads-and  she  wore  the  cape  all  eve- 
ning. Gloria  s  gown  is  brown  chiffon,  and  the  jewelry's  ,ade  The 
cigarette  is  nonchalant 


'    K       1  1 

^ 

'  i? 

1 

Lest  you  think  Mayfair  parties  are  populated 
entirely  by  the  younger  motion  picture  set,  re- 
puted to  be  flighty,  here  is  a  picture  of  a  liter' 
ary  notable.  Rupert  Hughes,  novelist  and 
writer  for  the  films,  and  that  nice  Mrs.  Hughes, 
hosted  a  gay  party 


One  of  the  loveliest  girls  at  Mayfair 
(or  anywhere  else!)  was  June  Coll- 
yer,  dimples  and  all.  She's  wearing 
a  gown  of  silver  metal  cloth,  with 
drop  shoulders  and  a  long  train. 
Note  the  interesting  way  she  wears 
the  corsage.  Just  try  to  count  the 
gardenias ! 


Big-hearted  Connie  Bennett  let  sister 
Joan  dance  with  the  Marquis  de  la 
Falaise — whose  ear  you  see.  Joan's 
gown  is  of  black  net.  The  ruffle  at 
the  hips  is  trimmed  with  silver  beads 
and  sequins.  In  the  picture  at  the 
left,  Constance  herself  is  giving  her 
famous  smile 


A  smart  party  of'  six  alights  at  the  Biltmore  Hotel, 
where  Hollywood's  Mayfair  is  beginning  to  sparkle 
away.  They  are  Raoul  Walsh,  Jack  and  Mrs.  Mul' 
hall,  Mrs.  Walsh,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Adolphe 
Menjou.  The  camera  was  unkind  to  Mrs.  Mul- 
hall — she's  one  of  Hollywood's  real  beauties. 
Walsh  wears  the  patch  over  his  eye.  And  if  that 
chinchilla  jacket  of  Mrs.  Menjou's  cost  a  penny, 
it  cost  $30,000! 


There  are  all  kinds  of  princes  at  Mayfair.  At 
the  left  Edmund  Lowe,  prince  of  good  fellows 
and  actors.  At  right.  Prince  Ganeshi  Lai  of 
India.    Turban  or  topper — all  same  Mayfair 


The  biggest,  smartest  party  at  Mayfair.  Joan 
Crawford  honors  Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr's.,  birth- 
day. Doug,  Sr.,  tells  a  funny  story  to  Marshall 
DufBeld,    football    star,   and   Junior    listens 


Barbara  Stanwyck  (Ruby 
Stevens)  was  born  in  Brook- 
lyn in  1905.  She  is  5  feet,  5 
weighs  120;  has  red  hair,  blue 
Married  to  Fr.mk  Fay 


THANKS  so  much,"  says  beauteous  Barbara  Stanwyck. 
"I'm  glad  you  like  'Illicit !'  I  hope  you  enjoy  my  next 
picture,  'Night  Nurse,'  just  as  much."  We  know  we  shall, 
Babs,  not  only  because  you're  such  a  grand  actress,  but  because 
you're  so  soothing  to  the  eye.    Our  best  regards  to  the  husband ! 


.»- 


Undergarments  that  really  fit 


Beauty  must  be  more  than  dress  deep. 
If  the  undergarments  are  bunglesome 
the  outerdress  can't  be  right. 

The  rapid  and  tremendous  increase 
in  the  sales  of  Kickernick  garments 
has  been  due  to  the  fact  that  these 
garments  fit  the  body  snugly  no 
matter  what  its  position  may  be — 
and  yet  an  easeful  tuck  allows  ample 
room  for  utmost  freedom. 

It's  the  tuck  that  tells. 


A  short  front,  with  a  long  and  al- 
most accordion-like  back,  has  taken 
the  ugly  bagginess  out  of  women's 
underdress. 

It  fits  in  all  positions. 

Kickernicks  are  made  in  all  the 
modish  colors,  fabrics,  styles — and 
remarkably  well  made. 

If  your  best  dealer  hasn't  them,  send 
for  booklet  to  Winget  Kickernick 
Company,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 


Kickernick^ 

PATENTED    UNDERDRESS 


\xmd- 


can  never 


e  men 


ded 


99 


jcwd.  Dorothy  Dix 


"Such  things  shatter  a  man's  illusions,"  writes  Dorothy  Dix 


?• 


DON'T  let  the  'little'  things— tare- 
less,  unfeminine  details — spoil 
your  lovely  effect ! 

"Such  a  'small'  offense  against  dainti- 
ness as  a  faded  shoulder  ribl>on  peeping 
out  .  .  .  frayed  lace  edging  visible  when 
you  lift  up  your  arm  ...  a  silk  slip  not 
so  color-fresh  as  it  might  he  .  .  .  such 
things  rofj  you  of  all  il- 
lusion in  a  man's  eyes. 

"And  broken  illusions 
can  never,  never  be 
mended. 

"I  beg  you  to  do  two 
things: 

1.  Buy  the  loveliest  lin- 
gerie you  can. 

2.  keep  it  always  color- 
fresh,  beautiful. 

"Just  knowing  your  underthings  are  lovely 
ilcx-s  something  to  .>/»'<■'    It   makes  you 


> 


\&\    ' 

Perhaps  you 
don't  realize 
hmC  often  this 

happens — 


FEEL  feminine  and  charming.  And  when 
you  feel  charming,  you  seem  so  to  others' 
"'But  how  can  we  keep  delicate  lingerie 
fresh  and  coU>rful?'  girls  often  say  to  me. 
'Frequent  washing  leaves  it  so  faded  and 
worn  looking.' 

"It  is  true  that  ordinary  'good'  soaps 
take  away  the  COLOR  and   the  charm- 
ing new   look  of  a  garment,  but  this  is 
never  the  case   if  you 
use  Lux. 

"These  wonderful 
flakes  are  especially 
made  to  preserve  COLOR 


A    SECRET    OF 

Lingerie  washed  in  Lux 
15  times — color  perfect 
as  new,  silk  and  lace 
fibres  intact.  The  gar- 
ment is  utterly  charming! 


FEMININITY 

Duplicate  lingerie  wash- 
ed 15  times  in  ordinary 
"good"  soap — silk  pull- 
ed, lace  damaged,  color 
faded.  Disappointing! 


.'/'• 


And  this!  Sueh 
glimpses  tell  so 
quickly  whether 
you're  exquisite! 


and  NEWNESS.  A  dainty  garment  bathed 

often  in  Lux  suds  is  always  color-fresh, 

sweet  BS  your  feminine  self! 
"AND  AT  HOME:  Not  only  can  dainty, 

colorful  lingerie  give  you  confidence  of 
charm — but  your  very  surround- 
ings can  help!  Pretty  curtains, 
cushions,  colorful  table  linens, 
all  form  part  of  the  magic  sjm*11 
if  kept  ever  lovely  with  Lux." 


If  it's  safe  in  water  alone,  all  its  original  loveliness  is  safe  with  LUX! 


MM 


March,  igjl 


The     National     Guide 

to     motion      Pictures 


I  IMfcli»    MAKk  | 


I 


'WILL  take  it  all  Lack. 
every  mean  crack  ['ve 
•  made  at  Hollywood ;  every 

joke    I've    told    on    what    has 

seemed  to  me  the  strange 
mental  processes  of  producers 
and  supervisors. 

In  all  the  years  that  I  have 
been  prying  about  and  com- 
menting on  studio  life  and 
letters,  aever  have  I  -ecu 
anything    to   compare    with 

the    Wickersham    report    and 

Mr.   Hoover's  quaint    note   concerning   it. 
hs  Thornton  Delehanty,  motion  picture 

critic  of  the  New  York  Evening  Poet,  said 
about  Douglas  Fairbanks'  latest  picture, 
"Reaching  for  the  Moon": 

"What  a  lot  of  talent  it  takes  to  make  a 
had  picture." 

Compared  to  the  Wickersham  report,  the 
resuh  of  a  Hollywood  conference  i-  the  brainchild  of 

a  group  of  intellectual  giants. 


ClOSe-UpS  and 

Long-Shots 


TIII-1  public  forgets  and 
the  I 


By 
James  R.   Quirk 


PERHAPS  this  story  i-  apropos. 
supervisor  story,  a 


It's  the  latest 

ipervisor  story,  and  what's  more,  it  is  true. 

This    supervisor   sent    for   a    writer   who   had   just 

Submitted    his    preliminary    '■treatment"    of   a   story. 

When  the  writer  had  seated  himself  at  the  little  god's 

desk,  he  said: 

"I  hear  you   want   to  change  that   story.     Why?" 
"Wait  a  minute,  -top  right  there."  cried  the  super- 
visor, jumping  out  of  his  chair.     "I  don't   want  any 
argument  on  this.     I  don't  want  to  change  my  mind." 

WHAT'S  going  to  happen  to  Clara  Bow?    Is  she 
through  in  pictures?     Is  the  public  fed  up  on 
her?     Will  the  Para  mount  company  exerciseitsright  to 

give  her  the  air  on  the  morality  clause  of  her  contract  ? 
You  cannot  keep  the  Brooklyn  Bonfire  in  focus 
from  one  month  to  another,  and  we  may  l>e  proved 
wrong  before  these  pages  reach  the  newsstands.  But 
it  is  our  bet  that  Madcap  Clara  will  go  right  along 
making  pictures. 


public  forgives.   The 
Paramount  company  pulled 

(  lara   o!T  a   picture  and  suh- 

stituted   a    new  girl,  Sylvia 

Sidney,  whom  they  believe  i- 
a  coming  favorite.  They 
want  the  public  to  forget 
(  lara  and  her  peccadillos  for 

a  few  weeks. 

What  if  some  other  com- 
pany wanted  Clara?    Warner 
Bros,  seem  intent  on  gather- 
ing  in   l>in   name-   for   their  po-tcr-.      Para- 
mount   would   take   the  chance  that    in   her 
first  picture  under  new  management  Clara 

might  make  a  ureat  box-office  film  and  come 
hack  strong  in  public  favor. 

Poor  (  lara — with  nothing  in  the  world  but 
five  thousand  dollars  a   week. 

Somehow  or  other,  the  tear-  won't 
come  to  my  eye-. 

WITH  the  April  issue  of  Photoplay  you  will  see 
some  interesting  changes  and  improvement-  in 
the  magazine.  Almost  every  department  and  new  idea 
introduced  by  PHOTOPLAY  has  been  speedily  copied  br- 
others. The  Shadow  Sta^e.  our  reviews  of  picture-, 
ha-  been  imitated  in  form  and  appearance  almost 
shamelessly.  It  has  come  to  a  point  where,  until  you 
get  into  the  text,  you  can  hardly  tell  one  magazine 
from  another. 

In  the  trade  it  is  called  "the  PHOTOPLAY  formula." 

A  WRITER  or  artist  appears  as  a  Photoplay  con- 
tributor, and  immediately  he  is  solicited  to  work 
for  other  publications  in  this  field.  There  will  lie  no 
more  of  that  because  Photoplay  has  now  engs 
the  exclusive  services  of  its  writers  and  illustra- 
tors. 

PICTURES,  automobiles,  radios,  magazines,  must 
improve  from  year  to  year  if  they  are  to  sell.  Noth- 
ing can  stand  still  and  prosper.    The  public  is  becom- 


ing  more  and  more  discriminating,  wriser  in  the 
expenditure  of  the  quarter  and  the  dollar.  It  is  learn- 
ing to  pick  and  choose  its  entertainment  with  the 
same  care  thai  it  selects  an  automobile  or  a  suit  of 
clothes. 

Last  year's  car  is  a  second-rate  car. 

Last  year's  picture  standards  are  not  box-office 
today. 

Lasl  year's  magazines  are  as  old-fashioned  as  last 
year's  hat. 

BY  the  way,  there's  a  story  which  can  be  written 
from  life,  and  one  or  two  of  our  leading  Hollywood 
executives  are  now  living  the  facts  on  which  the 
story  will  he  based.    It  will  be  called  "Ex-Producer." 

I  HAVE  a  surprise  for  you.  We've  got  Seymour  to 
write  for  PHOTOPLAY  each  month! 

Seymour  knows  more  about  fashions  than  anybody 
else  in  America — and  my  friends  abroad  say  that  goes 
for  Europe,  too. 

And,  since  Seymour  knows  more  about  fashions 
than  anybody  else,  we'll  get  him  to  interpret  what 
stars  wear — to  be  of  as  much  help  as  he  can  be  to 
Photoplay  readers  in  their  choice  of  that  all-impor- 
tant subject,  what  to  wear. 

Seymour  performs  on  pages  61-64.  You'll  like  him 
— and  you'll  like  the  clothes  he  says  you  should. 


T 


HE  Man  Who  Came  Back,"  which  brought 
Janet  Gaynor  and  Charles  Farrell  together 
again  as  a  co-starring  team,  broke  all  records  at 
Roxy's  cathedral  in  New  York. 

The  story  wasn't  suit  aide  to  the  players  and  the 
players  weren't  suitable  to  the  story,  and  yet  the 
crowds   poured    in. 

I  sincerely  believe  that  ninety  per  cent  of  the 
audience  went  there  to  see  "7th  Heaven"  again,  and 
that  even  while  they  were  watching  the  pair  emote  in 
their  new  characters  they  were  dreaming  of  Chicn 
and  Diane,  the  roles  they  played  in  the  picture  that 
made  them  stars. 

HKRE'S  an  example  of  bad  taste  in  picture 
advertising.  An  Albany,  X.  Y.,  theater  mana- 
ger thought  he  was  being  clever,  when,  to  exploit  the 
picture  "Abraham  Lincoln,"  he  used  the  legend, 
"She  taught  Lincoln  how  to  love — and  like  it." 
Credit  goes  to  the  Albany  Evening  Xews,  which  went 
after  the  manager  so  hard  he  tore  down  the  posters 
and  went  into  hiding. 

ALMA  RUBENS  is  gone.  Poor,  fragile  child- 
woman,  always  afraid  of  life,  and  forced  to  battle 
the  world  since  she  was  fourteen  years  old.  Broken 
by  drugs  which  she  used  in  a  pitiful  attempt  to  escape 
the  stark  realities  of  existence.  Who  is  to  judge  her? 
But,  how  I  would  like  to  pass  judgment  on  the 
human  skunks  who  profited  by  her  misery.  Why  can- 
not those  thin-blooded,  professional  prohibitionists 
turn  the  fire  of  their  fanaticism  on  the  dope  traffic? 

JO 


ALL  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front"  was  not  an 
accident.  Lewis  Milestone  directed  it.  Here  is 
another  proof  of  the  mental  caliber  of  this  talented 
young  Russian  immigrant. 

Immediately  upon  the  initial  success  of  "All  Quiet," 
every  producing  organization  in  the  business  tried  to 
put  him  under  contract  for  a  period  of  years,  speaking 
in  tenns  of  large  gobs  of  money. 

"Have  you  any  stories?"  asked  the  simple  fellow, 
looking  blankly  at  the  five  thousand  a  week  ( — every 
Saturday)  they  set  before  him. 

"No,  but  take  some  of  this  until  our  scenario  de- 
partment finds  one,"   was  the  stereotyped  answer. 

"I'm  sorry,  but  I've  got  an  appointment  with  a 
tuna  off  Catalina  Island,"  said  the  foolish  young  man. 
"You  see,  I'm  really  of  no  use  to  you  unless  you've 
got  something  I  can  direct.  I  am  not  a  gag  man.  I 
cannot  write  popular  songs.  I  cannot  take  your 
money  just  because  I  made  a  good  picture  out  of  a 
great  story.     So  long." 

He  waited  and  paid  for  his  own  board  and  room 
until  one  day  Howard  Hughes  called  him  and  said, 
"How  would  you  like  to  make  'The  Front  Page'?" 

"I'll  be  right  over,"  said  the  simple  Russian  lad. 
The  conversation  about  money  lasted  exactly  eight 
seconds. 

What  an  odd  young  man  to  be  in  Hollywood. 

THERE'S  a  little  war  on  in  Hollywood.  Warner 
Bros,  raided  the  Paramount  studios  and  came  away 
with  William  Powell,  Ruth  Chatterton  and  Kay 
Francis. 

" Okay  with  us,"  says  Paramount.  "  You  pay  money 
for  stars  w7e  have  developed.    We  will  try  to  beat  you 
to  the  box-office  with  better  stories  and  new  names." 
So  everybody's  happy. 

HOW  often  have  you  heard  folks  walking  out  of  a 
motion  picture  theater,  say:  "I  could  write  a 
better  story  myself"?  Maybe  you  have  said  it  your- 
self! 

Whether  you  have  or  not,  here's  a  chance  to  turn 
your  idea  for  a  screen  story  into  $-2,000.  A  few  weeks 
ago,  one  of  our  leading  motion  picture  producers  con- 
fided to  me  that  he  thought  readers  of  Photoplay 
ought  to  have  some  good  screen  stories  stored  away 
in  their  minds.  I  opined  that  they  probably  had. 
And,  the  first  thing  we  knew,  we  had  set  about  to 
get  them. 

THIS  producer  wants  one  story  or  ten.  Readers  of 
Photoplay  may  get  from  $-2,000  to  $20,000.  Most 
folks  are  afraid  to  put  their  story  ideas  on  paper  be- 
cause they  know  they  haven't  the  writing  ability  of  a 
professional  author  and  that  it  is  very  difficult  for  a 
story  to  get  a  chance  with  the  producers. 

Well,  you  don't  have  to  be  a  professional  writer, 
and  every  story  submitted  will  receive  the  same  con- 
sideration that  George  Bernard  Shaw  or  Booth  Tark- 
ington  would  get.  Now,  watch  the  April  issue  for 
details. 


An  intimate  portrait  of  Maloney,  as  ugly  a  black 

vulture  as  Mother  Nature  can    provide  —  and 

John  Barrymore's  especial  pet.     Barrymore  has 

trained  Mr.  Maloney  to  kiss  him! 


One  of  the  few  pictures  of  the  right  side  of  John 

Barrymore's  face.    Jack  considers  this  his  "bad 

side,"  and  turns  his  left  to  the  lens.    This  is  a 

scene  with  Mrs.  Barrymore 


This  Odd  Chap  Barrymore 


JOHN  BARRYMORE  isn't 
the  most  profane  man  ID 
Hollywood.  Some  folks  say 
Wolheim  is.  But  Barrymore 
is  Hollywood's  outstanding 
genius  at  expletive.  He  can  give 
tongue  to  some  of  the  most  stag- 
gering compound  oaths  that  in- 
genuity has  ever  devised.  And 
he  doesn't  care  who  hears  him. 

There  was  the  day  on  the  set 
when  executives  sent  word  they'd 
like  him  to  work  on  Sunday  to 

catch  up  with  schedules.  It's  Barrymore's  inviolable  rule  that 
he  won't  work  on  Sundays,  and  when  he  got  this  message,  he 
said  so  loudly  and  thunderously  and  ultra-profanely.  Two 
innocent  mule-drivers,  within  earshot,  fled  for  the  sake  of  their 
purity  of  mind. 

He  usually  tries  to  shock  she-interviewers  out  of  his  presence. 
If  they  flee,  horrified,  he's  delighted,  because  he  hates  inter- 
viewers. If  they  don't  flee,  they  usually  get  a  good  interview. 
His  profanity  is  preserved  to  posterity  on  a  disc  the  sound 
recorders  treasure  at  the  studio.  It  happened  during  the  film- 
ing of  "Moby  Dick."  The  scene  was  where  Barrymore,  as 
Captain  Ahab,  leans  over  a  rail,  surveys  his  crew,  and  says 
something  to  the  effect:  '*  Gentlemen,  a  fine  bunch  of  cutthroats 
you  are  .  .  ." 

Well,  the  cameras  and  sound  machines 
started  and  Barrymore  began  his  line. 


A  complete  and  fascinating 
close-up    of    the    Great 
P  r  o  f  i  1  e — r  oaring 
of    the    studios 
doting  husband  and  father 


terror 
,    and 


By   Harry    Lang 


Just  then,  a  rooster  crowed  some- 
where within  recording  distance. 
It  spoiled  the  shot,  and  Barry- 
more realized  it.  So  while 
cameras  and  sound-recording 
machines  ground  on,  he  spoke. 
And  what  the  record  reveals  is 
not  for  young  girls. 

And  yet,  here's  the  other  side 
of  the  picture.  See  this  Rabelai- 
sian-tongued  Barrymore  at  the 
cradleside  of  his  new  baby,  the 
puzzy -scalped  Dolores  Ethel 
Mae  Barrymore  and  you  see  a  metamorphosis.  You  see  a 
honey-tongued  papa,  cuddling  his  baby  under  the  chin,  wrin- 
kling his  classic  Barrymore  nose,  and  saying,  at  the  very  hottest, 
such  things  as: 

"Squeegy,  squeegy, squeegy  .  .  ." 

Barrymore  is  recognized  as  being,  next  to  Charlie  Chaplin, 
Hollywood's  oddest  citizen.  Some  intimates  insist  that  his 
oddities  are  assumed:  others  that  they  are  real.  Young  Doug 
Fairbanks,  his  friend,  is  positive  that  Barrymore's  Gargantuan 
profanity  and  other  manners  are  merely  the  outward  mani- 
festations of  a  deep  and  powerful  inferiority  complex.  Others 
hold  just  as  strongly  that  Barrymore's  contemptuous  attitude 
toward  others,  his  right-and-left  insulting  of  strangers  and 
friends  alike,  is  a  true  reflection  of  a  vast 
self-satisfaction  and  conceit. 

He's  got  a  reputation  for  fearing  bath- 

31 


tubs.    Legend  has  it  that  he  doesn't  take  baths.    To  which  one 
of  his  intimates,  deprecatingly,  replies: 

"Oh,  well,  he  does  like  to  look  sloppy,  and  doesn't  care  whose 
shirt  he  borrows,  or  whether  he  doesn't  shave  for  five  or  six 
days     but  he  really  likes  his  shower  bath." 

It  must  be  pointed  out,  in  proof  of  this,  that  his  new  yacht, 
the  Infanta,  has  more  baths  per  square  inch  than  any  other  ship 
afloat.  There  are  tub  and  shower 
baths  everywhere,  for  salt  water  and 
fresh  water  and  hot  water  and  cold. 
And  it's  quite  believable  that  John 
uses  them.  They  can't  all  be  for 
Dolores   and   little    Dolores   and    the 


crew. 

Yachting,  incidentally,  is  his  chief 
delight.  He's  mad  about  the  sea — 
boating  and  fishing,  between  pictures 
he's  almost  always  at  sea.  He  owns 
two  boats— the  Infanta,  a  grand  yacht 
with  a  special  nursery  aboard  for  the 
baby,  and  the  Mariner,  a  sailing  vessel 
which  twice  won  the  transpacific  race 
from  the  Pacific  Coast  to  Honolulu. 

Vet  he  gets  seasick!  In  rough 
weather,  he  plays  the  rail  as  inexperi- 
enced landlubbers  usually  do. 

When  he's  not  at  work,  or  at  sea, 
he's  at  home  with  Dolores  and  the 
baby.  And  what  a  home!  In  it,  he's 
got  collections  of  all  manner  of  things 
— from  hunting  and  fishing  trophies, 
all  the  way  through  a  gamut  of  things 

— old  ivory,  antique  glass,  early  prints,  first  editions,  antique 
church  vestments,  guns.  .  .  .  He  has  probably  the  biggest  gun 
collection  in  America,  outside  of  museums. 

Odds  and  ends,  from  whale's  vertebrae  to  old  Mexican 
cantina  doors,  incunabula,  ecclesiastical  statuettes,  cats  (the  last 
census  at  the  Barrymore  home  revealed  eleven  cats  of  both 
sexes  and  there  are  probably  many  more  by  now)  and  birds. 

He  has  more  than  three  hundred  rare  birds,  from  all  parts  of 


ONE  of  the  best  of  the  recent 
stories  about  motion  pictures 
is  this  one  we  cribbed  from  "The 
New  Yorker."  A  mother  had 
promised  to  take  her  little  boy  to 
the  movies  and  was  trying  to  sell 
him  on  the  idea  of  seeing  a  nice, 
clean  "Our  Gang"  comedy.  The 
little  fellow  insisted  on  "War 
Nurse"  and  wouldn't  see  any- 
thing else. 

"Why,"  insisted  his  mother, 
"there  are  some  nice  animals  in 
the  comedy."  "Yeh,"  said  the  lad, 
"but  there  are  animals  in  'War 
Nurse,'  too.  Look  at  this  adver- 
tisement in  the  newspaper.  It 
says,  'War  Nurse  —  See  men 
change  to  beasts.'  " 


the  world  in  a  specially-built  aviary  in  charge  of  a  birdkeeper. 

I  bey  know  Barrymore  and  many  of  them  eat  out  of  his  hand. 

The  pet  of  them  all,  though,  is  "Maloney." 

"  Maloney"  is  a  big,  black  vulture — probably  the  ugliest  bird 

in  nature.     Barrymore  has  it  trained  to  kiss  him! 

I  le  has  three  dogs  that  run  size's  gamut — a  Saint  Bernard  he 

calls  "Peter,"  a  Scotty  he  calls  "Scotty,"  and  a  Pekinese  he 
calls  anything  he  can  think  of.  It 
belongs,  really,  to  Dolores. 

He  used  to  have  a  monkey,  but  when 
he  got  married  he  gave  it  away. 

He  has  a  tremendous  collection  of 
books,  but  has  the  craziest  way  of  read- 
ing them! — he  opens  four  or  five  at  a 
time,  and  lays  them  on  the  floor  in  a 
semicircle.  Then  he  flops  down  on  his 
stomach  and  begins  reading  one.  After 
a  while,  he  lays  it  aside,  and  turns  to 
another.  And  so  on.  Now  and  then, 
he  turns  back  to  one  he's  been  reading 
and  resumes  where  he  leaves  off.  In 
other  words,  he's  reading  four  or  five 
books  at  a  time — a  few  pages  here,  a 
few  there,  but  all  of  them  eventually 
from  cover  to  cover. 


HE'S  quite  gaga  about  astrology. 
r 


He  even  goes  to  the  extremes  of 
setting  starting  dates  for  his  pictures 
by  the  stars,  and  choosing  his  friends 
and  co-workers  by  their  horoscopes. 
He  cares  not  a  whit  for  his  personal 
appearance  or  what  people  think  of  him.  During  his  wife's 
confinement,  he  took  a  suite  of  rooms  at  a  Los  Angeles  hospital. 
One  for  his  wife  and  one  for  himself,  and  there  he  lived  instead 
of  at  home. 

He  was  making  "Moby  Dick"  at  the  time.  He'd  arrive  at 
the  hospital  after  work  was  over,  clad  in  the  wild,  dirty  habili- 
ments of  Captain  Ahab.  Still  partly  in  character,  the  man 
swaggered  through  the  hospital    [  please  turn  to  page  119  ] 


The  Big  Four  of  1920— the  Original  United  Artists  who  broke  away  from  the  old-line  companies  ten  years  ago  and 
began  the  producing  association  that  endures  today  under  the  same  name  but  in  a  different  form.  Need  we  relate 
that  they  are,  from  left  to  right,  Doug  Fairbanks,  Mary  Pickford,  Charlie  Chaplin  and  David  Wark  Griffith?  Doug 
with  a  little  more  youth  and  hair,  Mary  more  girlish,  Chaplin  not  yet  gray,  and  Griffith  less  cadaverous.  Now, 
Doug  and  Mary  are  on  Joseph  Schenck's  payroll  and  Griffith  works  for  him,  too.    Only  Chaplin  remains  his  own 

boss  in  the  United  Artists  group ! 


A)  id  Brown  and  Garbo 

Fkht? 


Battle-ground?  The 
famous  team  at  work 
on  "Inspiration." 
Clarence  Brown  is 
here  directing  Greta 
Garbo  and  Robert 
Montgomery 


YOU  can't  keep  a  secret  in 
Hollywood.  And,  before 
the  picture  was  half  fin- 
ished, you  knew  that  all 
was  not  well  on  the  Garbo  set. 
You  heard  it  from  the  other  mem- 
bers of  the  cast,  the  electricians. 
the  extras,  the  prop  boys.  You 
felt  it  when  you  came  to  the 
studio.  There  was  something 
electric  in  the  air. 

"Brown  and  Garbo  have  dis- 
agreed:" 

'He'll  never  direct  another  pic- 
ture with  her!" 

"Garbo  will  go  back  to  Sweden. 
She'll  break  her  contract." 

"Garbo  is  temperamental.  She 
won't  learn  her  lines." 

"Garbo  says  .  .  ."  "Brown 
says.  .  .  ." 

You  knew  that  all  was  far  from 
quiet  on  the  carefully  guarded, 
walled-in  stage  where    Greta 

Garbo  was  starring  in  "Inspiration,"  which  was  being  directed 
by  Clarence  Brown. 

Like  all  batches  of  rumors  some  of  these  were  true,  some 
were  false.  To  begin  with,  there  was  no  actual  verbal  battle 
between  Garbo  and  Brown.  For  two  reasons.  Firstly,  Garbo 
has  never  been  outwardly  angry  in  her  life.  She  has  never 
flown  into  a  rage.  Quite  a  lot  of  heavy  Swedish  sulking  she 
has  done  and  she  has  often  refused  to  do  what  she  was  told — 
but  there  have  been  no  wild  tits. 

Secondly,  Clarence  Brown  won't  fight.  He  is  too  calm  a 
man,  too  sure  of  his  admitted  artistic  powers,  too  diplomatic. 
"Inspiration"  is  the  fifth  picture  he  has  directed  for  Garbo. 
The  other  four — "Flesh  and  the  Devil,"  "A  Woman  of  Affairs," 
"Anna  Christie,"  and  "Romance"  have  been  Garbo's  best  and 
most  successful  efforts.  Certainly  Brown  has  been  able  to 
bring  out  of  the  white  flame  from  Sweden  the  best  she  has  to 


— | 

The  first  true  story 
of  what  happened  to 
the  greatest  star- 
director  team  in  pictures 
on   the    'Inspiration'    set 


give.     Then,  what  happened  on 
"Inspiration"? 

Garbo  has  broken  every  rule  of 
star  living.  It  is  not  surpri>ir>>:, 
therefore,  that  she  should  break 
rules  on  the  set.  She  works,  as 
she  does  everything  else,  in  a 
,-trange  way.  Even  in  the  new 
medium,  the  talkies,  she  still  ad- 
heres to  the  silent  technique.  Like 
most  of  the  great  silent  picture 
stars  she  does  not  like  to  rent 
feeling,  as  she  does,  that  her  fir^t 
flash  of  emotion  for  the  camera  is 
the  right  one. 

Perhaps  prolonged  rehearsals 
weaken  her  performance,  but  that 
is  the  way  things  are  done  suc- 
cessfully  in  talkies.  The  skilled 
sea  the  Shearers,  the  Chat- 
tertons,  the  Swansons — know  this. 
No  hours  are  too  long,  no  repeti- 
tion too  often. 

But  not  so  Garbo.    She  works 
out  her  effects  alone — as  she  does  everything  else. 

In  "Anna  Christie"  this  manner  of  approach  was  all  right. 
It  was  a  fool-proof  play,  a  fool-proof  script.  Garbo  was  sold 
on  the  characterization.  The  lines  had  already  been  proved 
to  her,  so  she  studied  hours  at  home,  working  out  each 
scene  before  her  mirror.  But  in  "Inspiration"  a  different 
situation  arose. 

Till,  piece  is  an  adaptation  of  "Sappho."  The  book  is  now 
old-fashioned.  So  is  the  play.  A  new  script  had  to  be  written 
and  neither  Garbo  nor  Brown  was  entirely  satisfied  with  it, 
but  there  was  nothing  to  do  but  experiment  on  the  set  and 
see  how  it  read.  In  order  to  get  anything  out  of  it  they  must 
rehearse  and  rehearse  and  change  and  change.  There's  where 
the  trouble  began. 

Garbo  would  not  rehearse      [please  turn  to  pace  l.Sn) 


WHO  Has  The  Best 


Dolores  Del  Rio,  whom  the  jury  of  experts  says  leads  them 
all  in  physical  pulchritude.  This  article,  which  tells  why, 
changes  some  of  our  ideas  of  what  constitutes  a  perfect 
figure.  Dolores  has  been  ill  for  months,  but  she's  all  well 
now  and  ready  to  give  us  another  look  at  the  figure 


PHOTOPLAY'S  jury  of  a 
famous  producer  of  "girl" 
shows,  an  artist,  an  em- 
inent physician,  and  a 
celebrated  designer  of 
clothes  chooses  Dolores 
Del  Rio.  That's  one  good 
way  to  start  an  argument! 

By   A  dele   Whitely 
Fletcher 


A  WOMAN  in  her  middle  thirties  visited  a 
sculptor's  studio  with  her  sixteen-year-old 
daughter.  The  sculptor,  an  old  and  privileged 
friend,  complimented  the  mother  on  her  figure. 
Much  to  the  daughter's  surprise. 

Flabbergasted  enough  to  drop  her  usual  savoir-faire, 
the  daughter  fairly  gasped: 

"  You  think,  my  mother  has  a  good  figure?  My  mother! 
You  don't  think  she's  too  fat?'' 

You  could  tell  the  sculptor  was  an  understanding  man 
by  the  quizzical  light  that  came  into  his  eyes. 

"You  think  you  have  a  better  figure  than  your 
mother?"  It  was  a  question,  but  he  spared  her  replying. 
"  You  have  a  figure  that  artists  might  choose  for  exagger- 
ated drawings.  That's  true  enough.  And  you  probably 
would  be  considered  excellent  for  fashions.  But  don't 
you  make  any  mistake  about  it,  young  lady,  your  mother 
has  a  splendid  figure.  And  she  most  decidedlv  is  not  too 
fat!" 

THE  general  notion  of  what  is  a  good  figure  no  longer 
seems  to  be  what  is  was  a  year  or  more  ago  when,  in- 
fluenced by  the  unsound  fad  which  glorified  boyish  forms, 
Mrs.  and  Miss  America  survived  on  lamb  chops  and 
pineapple,  oranges  and  lettuce. 

It  isn't  anything  remotely  resembling  a  boyish  form 
that  has  been  selected  as  the  best  figure  in  Hollywood. 
It  is,  on  the  contrary,  a  figure  warmly  curved.  And  if  the 
most  perfect  figure  in  that  mecca  of  beauty  isn't  a  good 
figure  where,  I  ask  you,  are  you  going  to  find  one?  For, 
even  those  few  stars,  including  Gloria  Swanson  and  Ruth 
Chatterton,  who  evidently  feel  they  look  better  than  they 
sound  and.  therefore,  preferred  not  to  have  their  measure- 
ments published,  possess  a  lovely  basic  symmetry. 

It  is  probably  well  known  to  readers  of  Photoplay — it 
has  been  told  in  these  columns  many  times- — that  an 
actress  photographs  ten  pounds  heavier  than  she  actually 
weighs.  That's  just  one  of  those  nasty  little  tricks  of  the 
camera,  which  sometimes  also  fails  to  recognize  the 
beauty  of  a  face  that  is  ravishing  to  the  eye,  and  some- 
times makes  a  beautiful  girl  out  of  some  homely  little 
thing. 

It  became  almost  axiomatic  among  the  actresses  in 
Hollywood  that  they  had  to  keep  their  weight  below  the 


Figure  in  Hollywood  ? 


health  line.    That,  In  more 

lasts    lli. in    oiif,    has    led    l>> 

siai  v.m [on  diets,  rapid  de 
i  line,  tuben  ulosis  and  o1  I 
forms  of  ill  health. 

In  tlic  elimination  pn 
one  lovely  tad)  aftei  another  losl  her  place  in  the  pulchritudJ 
nous  line  up  because  sin-  was  too  slim,  because  there  wasn't 
sufficient  sweep  i<>  her  hips  and  calves  and  arms. 

A  hundred  and  one  fads  may  come  and  go.  but  the  standards 
of  true  beauty  are  unchanging. 

Earl  Carroll,  produi  er  of  "  \  anities,"  and  without  any  doubt 
one  of  the  greatest  authorities  on  beauty  in  the  whole  world. 
granted  Alice  White  and  Bessie  Love  an  almost  perfect  sym- 
metry but,  according  to  his  standards,  he  found  them  too  small. 
Bessie  lias  been  taking  on  too  much  weight  recently,  however. 

HE  also  eliminated  tit  is  as  difficult  forme  to  record  this  as  it 
will  be  foryou  to  read  it.  so  we  may  as  well  have  it  over  with) 
Greta  I'.arbo.  He  feels  Greta  should  weigh  more  than  she  does, 
be  closer  to  the  weight  she  was  in  Sweden  before  she  reduced  in 
order  to  comply  with  our  American  picture  ideals. 

"There  is.*'  Mr.  Carroll  insisted,  "a  certain  weight  at  which 
every  woman  is  her  loveliest,  just  as  there  undeniably  is  a  point 
in  the  unfolding  of  a  flower  at  which  it  attains  its  greatest 
beauty. 

"Like  many  Scandinavians.  Miss  Garbo  has  a  large  frame. 
Undoubtedly,  her  bones  weigh  heavily.  Already,  as  a  matter  of 
fact,  her  measurements  exceed  what  generally  is  considered 


And  WHY 


perfect  t  •■  i  her  hel 

I 

that  (  .11  t.i  I  ..n 

tii. n  and  that  she  would  hi- 
lar more  beautiful,  beautiful 
t"  a  point  <>!  I"  Ing  glorii  u 

she  were  heavier.      I    .rr  her  a-  a  goddeSS,  a  golden  Juno  " 

Constance  Bennett,  Mr.  Carroll  believes  to  have  perfect 
proportions. 

"However,"  he  said  "her  undeniable  symmetry  would  be 
emphasized    by    lovelier,    fuller  if    she    were    heavier. 

Weighing  more,  it  is  extremely  likely  that  Constance  Bennett 
would  be  a  serious  contender  for  Hollywood's  most  beautiful 
figure." 

June  Collver  lie  also  found  Ion  slim. 

It  was  Marion  Davits.  I)o|on>  I  >el  Rio,  Clara  How  an< 
Daniels  from  whom  Mr.  Carroll  made  his  final  choice.  They 
are,  you  will  notice,  the  four  girls  who  weigh  the  most  for  their 
height.  There  is  no  sense  of  frailty  about  them.  They  arc- 
roundly  turned.  They  are,  in  every  instance,  a  far  hail  from 
any  boyish  form,  and  they  are  not  the  undeveloped,  adolescent 
type. 

However,  after  long  and  serious  consideration,  Mr.  Carroll 
asketl  to  be  allowed  two  first  choices  and  two  second  choices. 
The  dusky  Dolores  and  the  fair  Marion.  And  Bebe  and  Clara. 
It  was,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  quite  impossible  to  choose  beyond 
this,  for  the  girls'  measurements  agreed  equally  well  with  the 
measurements  of  the  Earl  Carroll  chart  and  it  was,  naturally 
enough,  by  this  that  he  judged  them. 


Here   are 

Their 

Ages, 

Weig 

hts 

and 

Measurements 

Name 

Age 

Height 

Weight 

Bust 

Waist 

Hips 

Glove 

Shoe 

Joan  Crawford 

23  \  re. 

5'  4" 

110  lbs. 

37 

24% 

37 

6% 

4D 

Ann  Harding 

29  yrs. 

5'  5V2" 

112  lbs. 

34% 

26% 

38 

6V4 

6%AAA 

Greta  Garbo 

25  yrs. 

5'  6' 

125  lbs. 

36 

28% 

38 

6% 

6AA 

Carole  Lombard 

23  %rs. 

5' 6" 

109  lbs. 

34% 

28 

38 

6V4 

4C 

Bessie  Love 

32  yrs. 

5' 

100  lbs. 

33% 

26 

36 

53/4 

2V2B 

Norma  Shearer 

26  yrs. 

5'3" 

112  lbs. 

34 

25% 

37 

53/4 

5%A 

Alice  White 

23  yrs. 

5' 

98  lbs. 

32 

23% 

33 

6 

3%C 

Betty  Compson 

33  yrs. 

5' 3" 

110  lbs. 

34 

26 

34 

6 

4C 

Irene  Rich 

36  yrs. 

5' 5" 

134  lbs. 

36 

27 

36 

6V4 

5B 

Nancy  Carroll 

24  yrs. 

5' 4" 

116  lbs. 

34% 

25% 

37 

6V4 

6B 

Janet  Gaynor 

24  yrs. 

5' 

98  lbs. 

31% 

23 

33 

5% 

3%AAA 

Marion  Davies 

30  yrs. 

5'  4" 

118  lbs. 

35 

27 

35% 

6V4 

6B 

June  Collyer 

23  yrs. 

5' 5" 

114  lbs. 

33 

24 

36 

6V4 

4%D 

Clara  Bow 

25  %rs. 

5'4" 

112  lbs. 

33 

24 

36% 

6V2 

5B 

Joan  Bennett 

20  yrs. 

5' 5" 

108  lbs. 

33 

25 

34 

5«/4 

5AA 

Mary  Brian 

22  yrs. 

5'  3V2" 

115  lbs. 

32 

26 

36 

6V2 

4*2D 

Mary  Duncan 

25  vrs. 

5' 5" 

115  lbs. 

34 

23 

32 

6 

4V2B 

Kay  Francis 

25  vrs. 

5'  r 

118  lbs. 

33 

25% 

35 

6V4 

4C 

Bebe  Daniels 

29  vrs. 

5' 4" 

120  lbs. 

36 

27 

37 

6 

4!2B 

Constance  Bennett 

25  yrs. 

5' 4" 

100  lbs. 

33V4 

253/4 

35% 

6 

6A 

Dolores  Del  Rio 

26  yrs. 

5'  4V2" 

120  lbs. 

33 

25 

36% 

5% 

4V2B 

See  Hospital  Chart  for  Your 

Guidance  on 

Page 

86 

Among  the  runners-up,  Marion  Davies 

interested  the  judges   because  of  her 

well-developed  figure 


Joan  Crawford's  figure  was  rated 
high  by  one  judge.     She  is  mar- 
velous for  the  dress  artist! 


Bebe  Daniels  came  very  near  being 

elected  as  the  possessor  of  Hollywood's 

best  figure 


This  chart  of  Air.  Carroll's,  printed  below,  is  the  result  of  his 
many  years  of  experience  in  staging  girl  shows  and  judging 
beauty  contests  in  practically  every  state  in  the  Union.  It  is 
applicable  to  girls  between  the  ages  of  eighteen  and  twenty- 
two.  Get  out  the  tape-measure.  If  your  dimensions  coincide 
with  these,  you  are  the  stuff  of  which  the  "  Vanities"  are  made! 
You  were  not,  in  other  words,  born  to  blush  unseen. 

HOWEVER,  let  me  make  one  point  as  important  as  Mr.  Car- 
roll took  pains  to  make  it  to  me.  A  girl  whose  measurements 
agree  with  the  chart  at  every  point  save  one,  and  show  a  wide 
divergence  here,  is  not  to  be  considered  as  having  as  good  a 
figure  as  a  girl  whose  dimensions  vary  slightly  at  all  points. 

Mr.  Carroll  stresses  symmetry  as  being  of  vital  importance. 
It  was,  you  know,  Constance  Bennett's  proportions  that  in- 
terested him  in  spite  of  her  too  slight  weight. 

With  Mr.  Carroll's  chart  are  the  measurements  of  Marion, 
Dolores,  Clara  and  Bebe,  so  that  you  may  see  for  yourself  how 
this  impresario  judged  them. 


Earl  Carroll's 

Ideal 

Marion 

Dolores 

Bebe 

Clan 

Measurements 

Davies 

Del  Rio 

Daniels 

Bow 

Height 

5'  5" 

5'  4" 

5'  4" 

5'  4" 

5' 4" 

Weight 

120 

118 

120 

120 

112 

Bust 

.vvy 

35' 

33* 

36" 

33" 

Hips 

36" 

.o'," 

36L," 

37" 

36'  2 

Waist 

201  •? 

27" 

25" 

27' 

24" 

Neck 

12  V 

13' 

u'  r 

14" 

13" 

Wrist 

6' 

SK' 

6H' 

7" 

6H' 

Lower  Arm  9" 

9" 

— 

9" 

There  is  nothing  extreme  about  the  Earl  Carroll  figures. 
They  do  not  allow  for  any  bizarre  effects.  They  are,  as  a  matter 
of  fact,  in  what  might  be  considered  surprising  agreement  with 

86 


those  measurements  that  doctors  accept  as  compatible  with 
health  and  fitness. 

According  to  hospital  charts  a  girl  from  eighteen  to  twenty  is 
average  height  at  5'  5".  (Incidentally  seventy-five  per  cent  of 
the  American  women  are  this  height  or  under.)  Her  healthy 
weight  is  listed  at  one  hundred  and  twenty-six  pounds,  with  ten 
per  cent  latitude  allowable  either  way  to  account  for  a  difference 
in  skeleton  weight.  Thirty-three  inches  or  thirty-four  inches  is 
considered  the  normal  bust  measure. 

Broadway,  interested  primarily  in  effect,  has  for  its  ideal 
measurements  figures  that  might  be  taken  from  a  doctor's  chart! 

As  Earl  Christy,  the  famous  artist  responsible  for  the  beauty 
of  Photoplay  covers,  pointed  out: 

"Before  a  thing  can  be  beautiful  it  must  be  fundamentally 
right.  A  woman's  body,  in  order  to  be  fundamentally  correct, 
must  have  certain  things  ...  a  greater  breadth  at  the  hips 
than  a  man  would  have  .  .  .  and  a  sweep  up  from  her  waist- 
line. 

"T  DO  not  mean  to  hold  any  brief  for  'Venuses  lost  in  fat.' 

JL  But  neither  do  I  mean  to  hold  any  brief  for  women  who  have 

dieted  until  their  bodies  are  caricatures  of  what  they  should  be. 

"Backbones,"  said  Mr.  Christy,  eliminating  two  girls  at  one 
swoop,  "should  not  be  social,  protruding  like  clipped  wings 
when  low  cut  evening  gowns  are  worn.  They  rob  a  woman  of 
that  lovely,  rounded  look.  They  are  reminders  of  the  mechan- 
ism of  the  body,  of  joint  fitting  into  joint.  Joints,  of  course,  are 
very  important,  but  they  function  quite  as  efficiently  unseen." 

Three  other  girls  failed  to  measure  up  because  when  they 
stood  with  their  feet  together,  daylight  was  visible  between 
their  knees.  Light  showing  at  this  point  means  the  hip  line  is 
wrong,  too. 

Finally,  Mr.  Christy's  choice  narrowed  down  to  Dolores  Del 
Rio.  Alice  White,  Kay  Francis,  Joan  Crawford  and  Bebe 
Daniels.  [  please  tcrn  to  page  86  ] 


From  the  life  of 
"Little  Alabama- 
Dorothy  Sebastian 


The  Untold 

Chapter 


A  l  MR  her  marriage  to  Hill 
the   reporters   asked 
Dorol by  Sebasl tan  it  she 
had  ever  been  married  before,    she  replied,  "Yes." 

The  answer  Startled  a  good  mans-  people,  and  v.  lien  she  added 

a  touch  of  mystery  to  it  by  refusing  to  identify  lu-r  ei  busband 

with  a  name,  the  Hollywood  tongues  began  wagging  like  pleased 

pup>'  tails. 

A  few  of  us,  however,  know  the  story     a  story  that  made  a 
woman  of  a  child.     It  was  the  turning  point  in  Dorothy's  life, 
and  an  experience  without  which  she  would  never  have  gone  to 
York  or  subsequently  to  Hollywood. 

She  never  spoke  of  it  because  it  left  a  wound  she  didn't  care 
to  reopen;  and,  also,  because  she  wanted  to  begin  her  career 
without  personal  entanglements. 

But  now  it  can  be  told. 

It  begins  back  in  Birmingham.  Alabama,  with  Dorothy  a 
ksh,  buoyant  high  school  kid  of  sixteen.  He  was  Al  Stafford, 
handsome,  tall,  romantic — and  eighteen! 

To  them  the  world  was  a  garden  and  life  a  never-ending 
holiday,  whose  problems  could  be  blown  away  with  a  ki.—  .  li 
was  Love's  young  dream. 

One  night  they  started  to  a  dance,  but  they  wound  up  in  the 
rectory  of  a  little  church  on  the  outskirts  of  Birmingham.  They 
were  married. 

Full  of  secrecy  Dorothy  and  Al  went  home,  determined  not  to 
mention  their  marriage,  but 
Mrs.    Sebastian    looked    at 
Dorothy    with    a    mother's 
uid  said: 

"  You  kids  have  been 
married!''  It  was  a  secret 
no  longer  and  they  knew 
they  had  to  tell  Al's  mother. 

This  wasn't  easy.  She 
loved  her  boy  and  felt  he 
Ms  too  young  to  be  mar- 
ried. She  was  an  invalid, 
too.  depending  on  him  for 
affection  and  comfort,  and 
was  profoundly  hurt  that  he- 
had  taken  the  most  impor- 
tant step  of  his  life  without 
confiding  in  her. 

But  in  spite  of  this  Young 
Love  went  to  New  Orleans 
for  a  blissful  honeymoon 
and  returned  to  take  a  small 
apartment  in  Birmingham. 
According  to  their  youthful 
dream  they  should  have 
lived  happily  ever  after,  but 
it  didn't  work  out  that  way. 

They  gave  up  their  own 
apartment  and  went  to  live 
with  Al's  mother.  1 1  brought 
nothing  but  sadness,  for  it 
was  the  old  story  of  the  two 
women  who  loved  the  same 
nun,  one  as  wife  and  the 
other  as  mother,  and  lived 
under  the  same  roof. 

The  situation  came  to  its 
inevitable  climax,  and  Dor- 
othy put  it  up  to  Al.  He 
had  to  choose,  and  he  said 
"Dorothv." 


Bv    Janet    French 


The  young  folks— Bill  Boyd  and  Dorothy  Sebastian— 

as  they  looked  right  after  their  surprise  marriage  at 

Las  Vegas,  New  Mexico,  not  long  ago 


But  Dorothy  knew  it  was  "Mother" 
and  the  young  dream  that  began  that 
night  in  the  little  re(  tory  on  the  out- 
skirts of  Birmingham  ended  in  a  tearful  awakening.  There  v.  a-> 
more  to  life  than  a  ki»  in  the  dark. 

So,  with  a  high  school  romance  behind  her  and  a  woman's 
career  ahead  Dorothv  began  the  important  bu>iness  of  growing 
up  to  it.  She  turned  lu-r  head  to  New  York  ami  a  career  on  the 
Stage — and  from  there  on  you  know  the  story,  the  brave  tale  of 
the  hardships  she  went  through  to  get  a  foothold  on  the  ladder 
of  theatrical  fame. 

She  made  a  real  go  of  it,  matured  by  an  unhappy  romantic 
experience. 

Hollywood  knows  her  as  one  of  the  most  likeable  girls  who 
ever  brought  a  beautiful  face  and  Southern  charm  to  the  fdm 
capital.  She  has  made  a  name  for  herself  and  a  place  in  the 
industry. 

Since  that  unhappy  venture  she  naturally  steered  away  from 
marriage. 

She  wanted  to  be  dead  certain  the  next  time  she  took  the 
step,  and  now  she  is  sure — sure  of  Bill  Boyd. 

TI I EY  were  married  quite  suddenly  in  Las  Vegas.  Once  they 
decided  on  it  Dorothy  wanted  it  done  immediately.  They 
didn't  stop  long  enough  to  buy  a  wedding  ring,  and  when  the 
vows  were  made  Bill  used  a  sapphire  ring  Dorothy  had  given 

him  la>t  Christmas. 

"  It  was  sweet,  wasn't  it?" 
asked  Dorothv.  "Somehow 
it  seemed  lovelier  than  using 
any  other  sort  of  ring.  And 
Bill  is  everything  to  me — 
everything  that  lover  and 
husband  should  be." 

And  that's  the  untold 
chapter  in  the  life  of  Dor- 
othy Sebastian,  and  printed 
here  for  the  first  time  any- 
where. 

"  Little  Alabam"  has  had 
other  romances  in  Holly- 
wood. She  was  engaged  to 
Director  Clarence  Brown 
for  quite  a  long  time,  and 
sported  a  mighty  sparkler 
on  her  ring  finger. 

But  it  didn't  really  take, 
and  the  engagement  was 
broken  off. 

Bill  Boyd's  first  marriage 
— to  Elinor  Fair — ended  in 
the  divorce  court  some  time 
ago. 

Now  the  young  folks  are 
trying  again — and  this  time 
it's  going  to  Ins!.'  They're 
very  happy,  and  very  much 
in  love,  and  all  signs  point 
to  a  successful  life  together 
for  the  little  Southern  girl 
and  the  blond  gentleman 
who  does  his  heroing  under 
the  famous  sign  of  the  Pathe 
rooster. 

And  if  good  wishes  can 
make  it  so.  Dot  and  Bill  are 
going  to  get  on  just  fine! 


AND  Dorothy  Jordan  should  be  in  the 
spotlight  these  bracing  days!  She  has 
climaxed  her  delightful  work  opposite 
Ramon  Novarro  in  three  pictures  with 
her  great  success  in  "Min  and  Bill." 
M-G-M    is  very  fond  of  this  little  girl! 


Spotlighting 
Dorothy 


ss 


The  famous  shoes 
that  have  skidded 
Charles  Chaplin 
around  a  thousand 
comic  corners. 
Here  they  submit 
to  their  first 
interview 


\till   Kicking  Around 


Charlie  Chaplin's  famous 
shoes  speak  out  on  "The 
Foundations  of  Success" 


HERE'S  the  first  inter- 
view with  Charlie 
Chaplin's  famous 
shoes  that  has  ever 
printed. 

They  know  the  great  come- 
dian from  the  ground  up.  They 
have  just  finished  years  of 
work  in  "City  Lights."  Now 
they  squeak  for  themselves! 

I  found  them  in  the  living  room  of  Chaplin's  studio  bungalow 
at  Sunset  and  LaBrea  Boulevards,  Hollywood. 

Their  tongues  were  literally  hanging  to  the  floor  in  their 
eagerness  to  get  to  busi: 

On  a  chair  nearby  were  the  cane,  derby  hat,  green  with  age; 
baggy  trousers,  plaid  vest  and  short  coat,  fellow  workers  of  the 
shut--. 

"There's  one  thing  we  want  you  to  get  straight  before  we 
go  any  further."  they  burst  forth.  "We're  not  just  a  pair  of 
old  shoes.     We  never  were — " 

"'Of  course.  I  realize  that,"  I  interrupted.  "I  know  you're 
just  about  the  most  famous  pair  of  old — " 

"You  don't  get  the  idea."  they  retorted.  "Most  people 
probably  have  the  idea  that  Charlie  just  picked  us  out  of  a 
scrap  heap  and  wore  us  because  we  were  dilapidated. 

"  That's  not  true.  We  like  to  think,"  and  here  one  toe 
Crossed  another,  somewhat  embarrassed-like,  "that  we  are 
dream  children. 

"You  see.  the  boss  gave  a  lot  of  thought  to  his  appearance 
before  he  decided  definitely  on  the  costume  which  has  made 
him  so  famous.  Notice  that  we  say  'made  him  famous'  be- 
cause, after  all."  with  a  chuckle,  "aren't  we  the  foundation 
of  his  success?" 

They  were  pleased  with  this  little  pun  and  expanded  until 
their  uppers,  freed  of  the  laces,  almost  doubled  over  to  the 
tloor. 

Seeing  that  I  responded  with  full  appreciation,  they  con- 
tinued. 

"Charlie  tells  us  that  he  experimented  with  several  other 
shoes  before  we  came  into  existence. 
Perhaps  some   of   our   good   points 
were  taken  from  them.    After  several  r>  IS  „  „  +  „  *.       A    .    .,  s.  +  + 

By  Keetoii  Amett 


Charlie  went  to  a  shoemaker 
with  very  definite  plans  and 
we  were  born  there  on  his  awl 
as  the  boss  looked  on.  Al- 
though our  arches  appear  to  be 
broken  and  our  soles  are  flat, 
we  were  given  the  souls  of  real 
artists  and  as  much  character 
as  is  put  into  the  finest  custom- 
built  apparel. 
"That  isn't  bragging  too  much,  is  it?" 

I  assured  them  it  could  not  possibly  be  misconstrued  and 
thev  continued. 

"That  was  back  in  1915—" 

"Oh,  you're  not  so  hot,"  came  a  swishing  interruption  from 
the  bamboo  cane.  "If  you're  so  good,  why  doesn't  Charlie 
let  you  go  out  to  grace  the  galleries  of  collectors  like  he  has 
so  many  of  my  predecessors?" 

"Because  we  improve  with  age,  and — "  the  shoes  began. 
"Why,  right  now,"  said  the  cane,  ignoring  their  attempted 
reply,  "there  are  two  requests  for  me  from  famous  collectors, 
and  I  never  heard  of  anyone  wanting  you.  There  is  one  of  us 
in  the  collection  of  a  New  York  bank  president.  King  Albert 
of  Belgium  has  one  and  another — " 


nights  of  deliberations  and  dreams, 


"f^AN  that  chatter,"  came  a  loud  chorus  from  other  members 
V^-rfof  the  costume.    "Neither  of  you  would  amount  to  any- 
thing without  us.     We're  the  body  and  backbone  of — " 

•'Whose  interview  is  this,  anyway?"  the  shoes  angrily 
demanded  to  know  above  the  threatened  uproar.  "Will  you 
keep  still  for  a  while  and  let  us  tell  this  man  what  he  came  to 
hear  and  forget  your  petty  jealousies  for  a  while?  Keep 
quiet,  or  we'll  give  you  one  of  our  well-known  boots  in  the 
pants." 

This  quieted  the  others  and  they  sulked,  as  the  shoes  ex- 
plained  the  other  duds  were  extremely  jealous  of  them. 

"We're  the  oldest,"  they  continued,  "with  the  possible  ex- 
ception of  the  vest.     Nobody  seems  to  know  how  old  it  is 
or   where  it  came  from.     It's  just  a  minor  item,   however, 
and  doesn't  count. 

"We  don't  suppose  Charlie  will 
ever  let  us  go.  He  might  give 
away     [  please  turn"  to  page  106  ] 

39 


Doug!  Just  Look 


It  looks  like  quite  a  whoopee  affair,  this  scene  from 
"Dance  Fools,  Dance."    Lester  Vail  and  Joan  Craw- 
ford are  the  two  young  folks  so  sketchily  dressed. 
Above,  young  Mr.  Vail  himself 


ONE  morning  on  the  set  of  "Dance  Fools,  Dance"  Di- 
rector Harry  Beaumont  approached  Joan   Crawford 
with  a  nice  looking,  dark-haired  young  man  she  had 
never  seen  before  and  said,  "Joan,  I  want  to  present 
your  leading  man,  Mr.  Vail.    This  is  Miss  Crawford,  Mr.  Vail." 
"  How  do  you  do,"  said  Miss  Crawford. 
"  How  do  you  do,"  said  Mr.  Vail. 

"And  now,"  continued  Beaumont,  "we'll  do  the  first  scene. 
You're  sitting  here,  Joan.  Vail  enters  and  immediately  takes 
you  in  his  arms.  You  put  your  hands  on  his  face  and  kiss  him. 
He  buries  his  face  in  your  hair  and  says,  'Oh,  my  darling. 
1  love  you  so  much!'  " 
1  r — yes  sir,"  said  Vail. 
"  l'.r — yes  sir,"  said  Joan. 

They  did  the  scene.    His  voice  trembled  with  passion.  Joan's 

.shone  with  love  light.    And  unless  you  had  known  your 

Hollywood  you'd  never  have  believed  just  two  minutes  before 

10 


"Mr.  Lester  Vail,  meet 
Miss  Joan  Crawford!" — 
and  then  they  hug 
for    the    cameraman! 


these  ardent  lovers  had 
never  set  eyes  upon  each 
other.  Yet,  even  in  Holly- 
wood, it  was  a  little  em- 
barrassing. The  cameras 
stopped  and  they  parted. 
Vail  ran  a  nervous  finger 
around  his  collar.  Joan 
turned  away  to  powder  her 
nose. 

"It's  a  bit   warm,  isn't 
it?  "  said  Vail. 

"The  lights,"  said  Joan. 
"They're  using  more  than 
usual  today." 
There   was   an   awkward   silence,  finally   broken   by   Vail. 
"You  know,  I  believe  that  after — er — the  scene  you  might  be 
good  enough  to  call  me  by  my  first  name.    It's  Lester." 
And  the  tension  was  dispelled. 

But,  still  Lester  was  nervous.  It  was,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  an 
awkward  situation.  Several  months  before  it  was  announced 
that  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  was  to  play  one  of  the  principal 
roles  in  "  Beau  Ideal."  By  mutual  agreement  between  director 
and  actor,  Doug  did  not  play  the  part.  He  was  replaced  by 
Lester  Vail.  Such  things,  as  a  rule,  do  not  tend  to  breed  good 
feeling  in  Hollywood.  And  now,  Vail  found  himself  making 
desperate  love  to  the  wife  of  Doug,  Jr. 

HOLLYWOOD,  mused  Vail,  was  certainly  a  confusing  town. 
But  then,  so  was  life.    Lester  Vail's  life,  anyhow.    Take  his 
sailing  for  the  Orient  a  few  years  ago. 

Here's  how  it  happened.  Lester  was  one  of  the  important 
men  in  his  class  at  Stanford  University. 

During  his  senior  year  he  met  a  wealthy  man  who  offered 
him  a  big  job  in  a  financial  concern  the  following  September. 

That  summer  Lester  was  a  member  of  the  Bohemian  Club, 
and  at  the  Pacific  Grove  meeting  he  played  the  leading  role  in 
the  play  that  is  produced  for  the  members.  A  manager  who 
takes  companies  to  the  Orient  offered  him  the  chance  to  go  to 
the  East  as  juvenile  lead.  It  was  an  orderly  existence  against 
hardships.  But  madness  won  and,  instead  of  entering  a  well 
appointed  office  on  September  first,  Lester  sailed  for  India 
with  a  group  of  troupers  September  second. 

A  remarkable  year  followed,  a  year  of  excellent  apprentice- 
ship for  the  theatrical  career  that  he  found  waiting  for  him  in 
New  York.  On  Broadway  he  was  always  convincing  enough 
support  to  various  stars.  He  never  appeared  in  flops  but  he 
never  managed  to  hit  the  long  runs. 

Then  he  came  to  Hollywood.  He  had  had  a  test  made  and 
been  signed  by  M-G-M.  One  afternoon  he  received  a  frantic 
call  from  Herbert  Brenon  at  Radio  Pictures  and  the  next 
morning  he  found  himself  at  work  in  "Beau  Ideal."  It  was 
the  chance  of  a  lifetime. 

He's  a  thoroughly  nice  kid,  Lester  Vail.  Young,  enthusiastic, 
brimming  over  with  joy  in  his  good  fortune.  You'll  like  Lester. 
You'll  like  his  nice,  earnest,  handsome  face. 

You'll  like  his  enthusiasm,  which  can't  help  but  register  on 
the  screen.    And  you'll  be  glad  he 

turned  down  that  big  job  for  the        n  T^  1  ~  1  ^  *, 

chance  to  be  an  actor.  **  V     ■*-*  I  tl  I  H  £ 


What's  Going  On  Here/ 


Kent  Douglass  joins 
the  Joan  Crawford 
Leading  Man  Brigade 
in    her    picture,    "Paid" 


A 


GROl  P  of  what 

we  laughingly  call 

'ladies  of   the 

■press"  had  just 

seen  Joan  Crawford's  pic- 
ture, "Paid."  All  agreed 
Joan's  acting  was  great. 

"  And  a  hat  do  you  think. 
of    the    new    leading    man, 
young  Kent    Douglas 
asked  one. 

"Oh,   he's  grand.      He's 
got  everything — that  bow 

A  great  actor!  What  did 
you  think  of  him?'' 

"I  didn't  think  that  at  all.    Why,  he  isn't  even  good  looking.'' 

And  the  tight  was  on. 

But  it's  been  like  that  all  Kent  Douglass'  life.  You  either 
like  him  —a  lot.  Or  else  you  don't  like  him — a  lot.  Both  per- 
sonally and  professionally.  When  he  was  on  the  stage  (his 
name  was  Douglass  Montgomery,  then)  the  critics  felt  the 
same  way. 

He  is  not,  as  one  of  the  sisterhood  remarked,  ''even  good 
looking,"  in  the  strictest  sense  of  the  word.  But  he  makes  up 
for  this  in  intensity. 

He  is  a  strangely  vital  person. 

KENT  is  the  type  who  -would  starve  in  an  attic  for  his  art.  for 
never  once  did  the  thought  of  following  any  career  save  act- 
ing enter  his  mind.  And  he  began  by  being  the  youngest  juvenile 
in  Los  Angeles.  When  he  was  still  in  high  school  he  was  plav- 
uvenile  leads,  and  in  New  York  there  was  an  interesting 
career  awaiting  him.  He  became,  after  he  had  done  many 
other  things,  a  member  of  the  Theater  Guild  Acting  Company. 

He  is  one  of  the  few  stage  actors  who  definitely  had  not  turned 
1  lis  attention  toward  pictures.  He  came  to  California  to  visit 
his  family  in  Pasadena.  He  had  seen  but  two  talking  pictur. 
"The  Terror,"  one  of  those  first  atrocious  screamers,  and 
'Anna  Christie."  Nothing  in  between.  When  he  made  his 
first  test  at  M-G-M  he  was  so  green  that  he  thought  it  would 
be  a  good  idea  for  the  camera  to  pick  him  up  at  a  telephone — 
probably  the  oldest  test  formula. 

He  has  heard  the  stories  that  disgruntled  stage  actors  brought 
back  about  Hollywood.  So  far.  he  is  amazed  at  the  kindliness 
and  good  taste  he  finds  at  the  studios. 

"Everything  would  be  all  right,"  he  said,  "if  only  I  could 
get  over  my  nervousness.  For  no  reason,  my  knees  tremble 
every  time  I  do  a  scene.  I  can't  understand  how  Joan  Crawford 
remains  so  perfectly  poised  all  day  long.  Lord,  but  she  was 
grand  to  me! '' 

To  catch  the  elusive  spirit  of  the  boy  is  a  difficult  task.  Out- 
wardly he  is  like  this:  His  hair  is  very  light.  His  eyes  are  very 
blue.  His  nose  is  large.  His  chin  is  firm.  He  is  of  medium 
height.  But  there  is  within  him  a  quality  that  you'll  notice  in 
"  Paid. "  It  is  a  certain  spark,  a  certain  vivid  eagerness.  The 
boy  is  all  youth  and  excitement. 

When  he  first  returned  to  his  home  on  the  Coast  from  New 
York,  pictures  did  not  interest  him. 

0_     J    .-,     ,,  It  was  only  the  stage.    Now  he  is  only 

g     CI     L     ft  keen  on  pictures.    Hesavs:  "Oh,  there 


Kent  Douglass  and  Joan  Crawford  in  a  scene  from 

"Paid,"    the    talkie    version    of    the    famous    play, 

"Within  the  Law."  Kent's  work  was  so  good  he  was 

signed  to  a  long-term  contract 


is  a  greater  thrill  in  working  on  the  stage.  More  reality  for 
the  actor. 

"The  talkies  are  new  and  exciting.  The  stage  is  musty  and 
surrounded  by  sentimentality.  It's  an  old  lover  dyeing  his 
gray  locks. 

"But  the  talkies — they're  vital,  they're  alive  and  if  I'll  ever 
learn  to  keep  from  being  so  confoundedly  nervous  when  that 
microphone  swings  over  my  head  and  that  camera  is  wheeled 
up  before  my  face.  I'll  love  every  second  at  the  studio.'' 

J  u  may  not  like  Kent  Douglass  at  all.  But  you'll  go  to 
see  him  and  you  won't  be  just  lukewarm  in  your  opinions  about 
him. 

You  may  like  him  more  than  any  of  the  new  screen  actors 
you've  yet  watched.  And  you  won't  fed  just  lukewarm  about 
that,  either. 

For  Kent  is  a  personality.  You  either  take  him  or  you  leave 
him  alone! 


V 


s 


CHE  had  ruled  the  field  of  high  comedy  in  the  American 
^ theater  for  years — and  she  took  a  licking  in  Hollywood  such 
as  few  ladies  and  gents  have  survived.  But  the  indomitable  Ina 
Claire  not  only  lived  through  it,  but  marshaled  her  spiritual  and 
material  forces  and  scored  a  triumph  in  the  medium  that  had 
rejected  her — the  talking  picture 


42 


Last- and  Loudest/ 

The  dramatic  tale  of  how  Mrs.  John  Gilbert, 
ignored  in  Hollywood,  fought  back  once  more 
to  the   queendom   she   had   ruled    for  years 


Hi 


ARKI   Hear  that  silvery  peal  <>f 
girlish  laughter  rising  above  the 
clamor  oi  the  hardened  artery 
"i  ailed  Broadway? 

That,  friends,  is  1  n.i  Claire  laughing 
last — and  laughing  loudest! 

Ina  has  waited  two  long  years  for  that 
burst  of  merriment — two  years  of  failure 

and  persona]  discouragement  -of  playing 
second,  third  and  fourth  fiddle  to  a  movie 
at  tor  husband  in  the  eye  of  the  motion 
picture  public. 

Now.  strolling  down  the  Broadway  that 
made  her  a  star,  she  can  see  her  name  in 
bright  lights  above  a  great  theater — "Ina 
Claire  and  Fredric  -March  in  'The  Royal 
Family  of  Broadway.'  "  She  can,  if  she 
chooses,  go  in  and  find  the  playhouse 
crammed  to  the  fire-exits  with  human  sar- 
dines who  howl  with  laughter  and  are 
swayed  to  gentle  tears. 

It's  a  triumph  for  the  indefatigable  Ina 
— the  magnificent  lady  of  the  stage  upon 
whom  self-sufficient,  smug  Hollywood  sat 
with  all  the  dead  weight  at  its  command, 
and  that's  plenty.  And  if  there's  a  faint 
trace  of  conquering  superiority  in  Ina's 
gale  of  mirth,  I,  for  one,  and  you,  for 
many,  can  forgive  her.  For  the  glory  of 
her  performance,  and  the  warmth  of  its 
reception,  in  "The  Royal  Family  of 
Broadway.'-  climax  as  gallant  and  dra- 
matic a  return  to  power  and  acclaim  as  the 
stage  and  screen  have  ever  witnessed! 

Let's  snatch  a  quick  look  over  the 
shoulder  at  the  little  Fagan  girl  of  Wash- 
ington who  became  Ina  Claire,  First  Comedienne  of  Broadway, 
took  one  of  the  grandest  lickings  in  the  history  of  Hollywood 
and   then  stood  up  to  knock   Hollywood,   blear-eyed,  clear 
through  the  ropes. 


Till",  little  Fagan  girl  of  the  capital  city,  like  so  many  of  our 
players,  was  a  child  mimic.  She  rose  through  musical  comedy 
to  revue,  to  stardom  under  Belasco's  wand,  and  went  on  from 
triumph  to  triumph  in  high  comedy — oh,  very  high  indeed! 
Comedies  full  of  tea-carts,  spats,  monocles  and  broad  A's. 

Ina  Claire  was  one  to  command.  She  ruled  her  field  by  what 
might  be  called  semi-divine  right.  Exquisitely  dressed,  mag- 
nificently poised,  she  moved  among  the  smartest — society 
sparklers.  New  York's  town  wits,  writers  of  all  sorts,  back- 
gammon players,  people  who  trade  epigrams  for  invitations. 
In  this  sort  of  throng,  Ina  Claire  was  head  man. 

Came  the  talkies — and  the  theater's  march  on  Hollywood. 
Queen  Ina  the  First  was  mobilized  early  in  1929,  and  glittered 
upon  the  Pathe  lot  under  a  three-picture  contract. 

I  saw  her  then — sat  at  luncheon  with  her  in  her  dressing 
room.  She  was  miserable  as  only  a  great  stage  star  can  be  in 
an  atmosphere  where  she  is  just  another  actress,  and  a  handful 
at  that,  according  to  studio  people. 

Ina  was  making  her  first— and  last — Pathe  picture,  "The 
Awful  Truth.''     She  didn't  know  about 
its  truth,  but  she  felt  awful  enough. 

The  First  Ladv  of  the  Theater  was  lit-  r>  T    __„  /      J  J     // 

orally  an  unknown  in  Hollywood!     She         ■£> }'     JLtCOfiurU     11  ill  I 


Mary  Brian  and  Ina  Claire  as  daughter  and  mother  in  "The  Royal 
Family  of  Broadway,"  that  excellent  talkie  portrait  of  an  American  stage 
family  that  put  Ina  on  the  heights  again.     The  line  of  hopeful  pro- 
ducers will  now  please  form  on  the  right 


fretted  and  stormed  at  the  picayune  studio  delays,  the  shooting 
of  fragments  of  scenes  that  were  over  before  ever  the  star  had 
worked  up  a  good  head  of  histrionic  steam. 

"  I  can't  stand  it! ''  she  told  me.  "Just  as  I  begin  to  get  the 
feel  and  spirit  of  a  scene,  CUT — it's  over,  and  there  I  ami" 

Then,  with  no  warning,  she  scuttled  over  the  Nevada  line 
and  married  Jack  Gilbert.  Married  him  because  he  laughed 
like  a  happy  boy  and  not  like  a  Park  Avenue  luncher — because 
he  was  gay  and  good-looking  and  naive. 

''  Where  has  this  been  all  my  life?"  asked  Claire.  I  know  she 
asked,  because  she  told  me  so. 


WITH  her  marriage,  Ina  Claire  found  out  just  where  she 
stood,  out  there  on  the  Pacific  shore. 
"John  Gilbert  Weds  Actress"'  screamed  the  headlines.    Her 
pride  burned  to  a  crisp.    She  was  sporty  about  it,  but  there  was 
bitterness  in  the  way  she  tried  to  laugh  it  off. 

John  Gilbert,  the  great  lover,  conducting  the  marital  orches- 
tra— Ina  Claire,  just  "  actress. "  playing  a  bull  fiddle  somewhere 
in  the  rear  rank!  Ten  thousand  thunders!  What  queen  could 
bear  THAT  ignominy?    Not  Queen  Claire,  let  me  tell  you! 

"  Never  mind,''  I  told  her.    "  When  you  and  Jack  come  East, 
he'll  be  just  another  actor  carrying  your  luggage! "' 
But  I  could  see  she  wasn't  quite  consoled. 

Came  the  day  when  "The  Awful 
Truth "'  was  released. 

And  did  it  burst,  bomb-like,  upon  the 
Broadway    [please  turn  to  page  132  ] 

43 


THE  cameraman  tackles  Nature  10,000  feet 
above  the  sea!  Clyde  De  Yinna,  winner 
of  the  Academy's  photographic  award  in 
1929,  perches  his  camera  precariously  on 
a  peak  and  shoots  scenes  for  "The  Great 
Meadow,"  with  Eleanor  Boardman  and 
John  Mack  Brown.      An  easy  life,  eh? 


Shooting 
The  Pe  a  k  s 


u 


Tl 


ie 


tar  s 


Secret 


\\  hat  Was  This  Strange 
Power  That  Held  Audiences 
Enslaved  for  Hours? 

By 

Dana    Burnet 

Illustrated     by      E V t r  1 1 1      S h  i n n 


I  HAPPENED  l"  be  dining  at  the  club  the  night  John  Ren- 
son  got  home  from  the  Coast.    He  came  out  on  the  dining 
porch,  looking  for  a  table. 
''Hello,  John."  I  said.    "  Back  from  Hollywood5  " 

"Just  got  in.  How  are  you?"  We  shook  hands.  ''Anybody 
using  this  chair?" 

"No.    I'm  alone.    Sit  down." 

John  sat  opposite  me.  I  waited  till  he'd  ordered.  Then  I 
said: 

"Well!    What  about  it?    How'd  you  get  along  out  there?" 

"  I  got  along  all  right.  Did  the  dialogue  for  a  couple  of  pic- 
tures. Tricky  work,  till  you  learn  the  technique.  But  I  rather 
enjoyed  it." 

•What's  Hollywood  like?'" 

He  looked  at  me  and  shook  his  head. 

n't  answer  that  in  one  evening.  Matter  of  fact,  I'm  not 
sure  I  know.  I'm  not  sure  anybody  knows.  It's  on  too  big  a 
scale.  It's  absurd,  of  course,  but  even  its  absurdity  is  so  tre- 
mendous that  you  have  trouble  laughing  at  it.  You  get  set  to 
laugh,  and  then  you  feel  foolish  yourself,  because  you  know  how 
futile  your  laugh  is  going  to  be." 

"It's  all  pretty  pointless,  I  suppose?" 

"About  as  pointless,"  said  John,  '"as  a  glacier.  You  might 
not  see  much  sense  to  a  glacier,  but  you'd  have  to  be  somewhere 
near  the  seat  of  the  Almighty  to  be  able  to  kid  it,  or  to  figure  out 
its  importance  in  the  general  scheme  of  things." 

"Hollywood  moves  faster  than  a  glacier,  doesn't  it?" 

"Yes,"  he  admitted.  "It's  more  like  an  avalanche.  You 
stand  by  and  watch  it,  but  you're  so  busy  trying  to  keep  out 
from  under  that  you  never  quite  discover  what  makes  it  move." 

"Isn't  the  propelling  force,"  I  asked,  "simply  the  desire  to 
exploit  the  sentimentality  of  the  public  for  profit?" 

"The  desire  for  profit,"  he  said,  "explains  the  production  of 
pictures,  just  as  the  desire  for  entertainment  explains  the  pub- 


Moonlight,  the  sea,  and 

that  other  unfathomable 

mystery,  Stella  Solvig! 


lie's  eagerness  to  see  them.     But  there's  another  element  I've 
never  been  able  to  fathom." 

"What's  that?" 

"The  curious  and  almost  violent  passion  that  the  public  has 
for  certain  personalities  of  the  screen.  It  can't  be  explained  on 
aesthetic  grounds,  for  frequently  these  personalities  are  in- 
different actors.  Usually,  to  be  sure,  they  possess  some  quality 
of  physical  attractiveness;  but  so  do  most  of  the  extras  who 
surround  and  support  them. 

"  Yet  these  chosen  ones  have  a  hold  on  the  public  that  results 
in  sheer  fanaticism.  That's  well  known.  But  how  account  for 
it?    To  me  it's  a  mystery,  and  always  will  be." 

He  paused  for  a  moment,  and  then  said,  smiling  a  little:  "I 
met  Stella  Solvig  out  there." 

"You  met  the  great  Solvig?" 

He  nodded. 

"  Tell  me  about  her.    Is  she  interesting?    Is  she  intelligent? 
Is  she  as  beautiful  as  she  is  on  the  screen?" 
More  beautiful,  if  anything,"  said  John. 

"  Lucky  dog!" 

">7rES,  I  was  lucky  to  meet  her."  he  said.    "  I  wanted  to,  more 

1  than  I've  wanted  almost  any  other  experience  in  my  life,  not 
only  because  she  was  beautiful  and  famous,  but  because  she 
Pressed,  I  thought,  the  pure  secret  of  this  power  over  people. 
This  strange  attraction  that  not  only  draws  incredible  audiences 
into  the  picture  houses,  but  dominates  them,  like  a  hypnotic 
influence,  when  they've  returned  to  the  routine  of  their  daily 
lives. 

"Stella  Solvig's  fan  mail  amounts  to  twenty-five  thousand 
letters  a  week.  Sometimes  more.  And  that  represents  only  a 
small  proportion  Of  the  millions  who  worship  her,  most  of  whom, 
no  doubt,  would  be  happy  to  do  murder  for  her." 

"  Where  did  you  meet  her?"  I  asked  John. 

"At  Malibu  beach.  That's  a  place  about  thirty  miles  from 
Hollywood,  where  a  lot  of  the  successful  movie  stars  have 
bungalows.  Most  of  these  bungalows  are  unpretentious — little 
frame  shacks  built  close  to  each  other  on  the  sand — and  the  life 
there  is  casual  and  informal.     You  bathe,  you  play  a  little 


More    worshipped    than    any    other    actress  —  but    why? 


tennis,  you  lie  out  in  the  sun  and  get  a  burn;  and  when  a  party 
happens,  it's  usually  more  by  accident  than  by  intention. 
There's  some  splurge,  but  not  much.  Stella  Solvig  had  a  small 
cottage  at  the  upper  end  of  the  beach.  1  was  visiting  a  friend 
of  mine,  the  director  of  the  picture  I  had  to  write,  and  I  used 
to  see  her  walking  the  sand  in  her  bathing  suit. 

"CI  IK  was  very  beautiful.  Tall,  slender,  with  long  straight  legs, 
l3lovely  arms  and  shoulders,  and  hair  that  the  sun  turned  to 
a  kind  of  yellow  mist  around  her  head.  She  walked  with  long, 
lazy  strides,  her  face  turned  always  a  little  toward  the  sea,  and 
seemed  completely  indifferent  to  any  life  going  on  about  her. 

"This  indifference  wasn't  a  pose.  I  learned  that  she  seldom 
went  to  parties;  that  she  had  few  friends;  that  her  isolation  was 
as  essential  to  her  as  publicity  is  to  the  average  star.  She  lived 
and  walked  alone,  turning  her  eves  toward  the  horizon,  toward 
the  wilderness  of  space  and  water.  Her  eyes  were  blue;  but  not 
the  blue  of  the  Pacific  she  looked  on.  They  were  a  paler,  colder 
blue — the  color  of  the  North  Atlantic  in  October. 

"  Then,  one  Sunday  night,  I  went  to  a  buffet  supper  given  by 
some  charming  people  who  owned  a  tennis  court.  I  stepped  up 
on  the  porch  of  their  bungalow  and  there  was  Stella  Solvig,  in  a 
white  sports  dress,  sitting  alone  in  a  hammock,  looking  at  the 
ocean.    She'd  been  playing  tennis  there  that  afternoon. 

"  1  decided  to  make  the  most  of  my  opportunity.  I  went  into 
the  house  and  got  two  plates  of  food  and  brought  them  back  to 
the  porch.    I  gave  her  one,  and  asked  if  I  might  sit  down  beside 


her.  She  looked  up  at  me  with  an  absent-minded  smile,  and 
said  yes.  I  introduced  myself.  I  said  I  knew  her,  of  course, 
and  that,  frankly,  I  had  a  question  I  was  eager  to  ask  her. 
"A  question?'  she  said;  and  then,  in  her  calm,  low  voice — 'but 
I  can  guess  what  it  is,  and  you  may  as  well  not  ask  it,  because 
I  don't  know  the  answer.' 

"She  looked  straight  into  my  eyes.  Her  own  were  curiously 
sad,  but  serene.  There  was  a  deep  well  of  honesty  in  them. 
Her  lashes  were  very  long.  'I  don't  think  about  it  any  more,' 
she  said.  And  I  said:  'All  right,  I  won't  ask  you  now.  Not, 
at  least,  till  you've  finished  your  salad.' 

"She  smiled  at  that,  and  I  thought  of  the  crowds  who  had 
felt  their  pulses  quicken  to  see  that  smile  flicker  across  a  screen. 
Yes,  I  admit  I  thought  of  all  the  millions  who  would  passion- 
ately envy  me  sitting  beside  her  on  that  porch,  in  the  hazy 
California  twilight. 

"After  a  while,  she  got  up  abruptly  and  said  she  was  going 
home.  I  asked  if  I  might  walk  up  the  beach  with  her,  and 
again,  simply,  she  said  yes.  If  there  was  no  flattery  in  her 
acquiescence,  neither  was  there  any  self-consciousness  in  it. 
She  accepted  me  as  a  child  would  accept  a  chance  companion. 
I  had  an  idea  she  was  lonely  because  she  could  not  assume  arti- 
ficial attitudes  toward  people.  There  was  a  profound  natural- 
ness in  everything  she  said  or  did;  and  the  sum  total  of  it  was 
utter  mystery. 

"So  we  walked  up  the  beach,  and  there  was  a  moon.     "\ 
there  was  a  moon.     The  sea,    [please  turn  to  page  118] 


Well,  you  probably  wouldn't  believe  it,  but  here's  proof.  Marlene  Dietrich  is  an  artist  on  the  musical  saw!  Beautiful 
music  can  come  out  of  a  saw  in  expert  hands,  and  Marlene  is  said  to  be  a  grand  saw-player.  Her  father  gave  her 
the  instrument  when  she  was  a  girl.   Here  she's  playing  a  tune  for  Victor  McLaglen  between  scenes  of  "Dishonored" 


46 


,  meel  Rango.  if 
you  haven't  already. 
11. ••  .  tin-  -.t.ir  of  the 
great  jungle  picture 
named  after  him,  and 
if  you  have  any  kind 
of  a  heart  at  all,  this 
little  orang-outang 
will  win  it.  In  this 
do  •-up  he  is  think- 
ing over  his  career 


That  object  you  see 
hanging  from  Ran  go  '.i 
neck  isn't  a  lavaliere 
—  it's  a  chain  that 
holds  him  right  where 
he  is.  A  couple  of 
mere  humans  thought 
they'd  keep  him  in 
their  hut,  but  Rang? 
fixed  that.  In  no  time 
he  was  back  in  the 
woods  again 


oor  Li'l  Rango 


Dear  PHOTOP1   W  Reader: 


By  Har 


W  '.\br  it'd  be  nicer  all  around,  if  you'd 
not  read  this  until  after  you've  seen  "Rango"  the  grandest  true- 
jungle,  non-fake  animal   picture   cur  filmed.    It'd  make  Mister 
Schoedsack,  who  made  it,  happy  if  you'd  see  the  show  first. 

He's  one  ait  fully  fine  fellow,  but  in  Hollywood  he's  been  bitten 
by  the  My  %  ■  ■.dit'llspoiltheillusion  Bug.     And  that's  terrible! 

It  has  made  Mister  Schocdsack  believe  that  if  you  read  this 
re  you  sec  his  picture,  it'll  spoil  tlte  kick  in  "Rtngo."    So  if 
von  want  to  please  Mister  Schocdsack,  just  turn  over  to  the  next 
article. 

But  use  vour  own  judgment. 

THE  EDITOR 


RANGO"  ia  easily  the  finest  non-studio  motion  picture 
that  you'll  see  for  a  long  time.     But,  for  a  few  minutes, 
it'll  just  about  break  your  heart. 
It  was  made  in  far-off  Sumatra,  by  a  tall,  gangling  genius 
of  the  camera  named  Ernest  Schocdsack.    It  employs  only  two 
human   actors — and  they're  just  a  couple  of  jungle   natives. 
Neither  of  them  is  the  star.    The  star  is  a  baby  orang-outang 
which,  in  the  progress  of  the  story,  is  called  A'  ango.     Hi- daddy, 
an  aged  but  active  orang,  is  in  the  film,  too.    He's  named  Tua. 
Rango's  mama  never  appears.     She  must  have  run  off  with 
a  supervisor  or  something.     But  that's  not  important. 

W  ell,  Schoedsack  develops  a  heart-touchingly  simple  little 
story.  How  Tua  and  Baby  Rango  survive  the  jungle's  menaces. 
How  they  make  friends  with  the  two  natives.    He  takes  you 


ry     L^i  CI  71  g       *<>  intimately  into  Rango's  life  thai 

the  time  the  film  is  half  over,  you're  head 

over   heels  in  love   with   the  little   ape! 

Honestly.     Rango  is  the   funniest,  sweetest,  naughtiest,   lov- 

a blest,  interot  ingest,  a ndlots-of-othcr-t hi ngs-est  creature  that's 

hit  the  screen  in  a  long  time. 

And  then,  out  of  the  midst  of  this  delightful  affection  you're 
developing  for  the  baby,  there  comes  heart-stopping  trag 
In  a  twinkling,  you  see  the  most  ruthless  beast  of  the  jungle — 
the  tiger — snarl  out  of  his  ambush  and  strike  little  Rango  dead 
with  one  sweep  of  his  paw! 

You're  stunned  at  first.  Then  you're  hurt  deeply.  Then 
you  begin  to  get  mad.  And  a  hot.  red  rage  surges  within  you  at 
the  man  who'd  kill  a  tiny,  lovable  thing  like  that  just  fur  the 
sake  of  a  movie  thrill.  Man.  how  you  burn!  And  it  doesn't 
take  the  raw  edge  off.  either,  when  you  gloat  at  the  film's 
finish  over  nature's  vengeance  for  Rango's  death.  It  o 
when  the  tiger  is  killed  in  a  death-battle  with,  an  ungainly 
water-buffalo — gored  to  death  before  your  eyes  for  another  of 
the  greatest  thrill-scenes  that's  ever  been  filmed.  You  still 
hate  Schoedsack  for  killing  A' 

And  if  you'd  have  the  fortune  to  meet  Schoedsack.  the  first 
thing  you'd  probably  say  would  be: 

.  you  big  stiff!    What's  the  idea  of  killing  R . 

Schoedsack  takes  his  pipe  out  of  his  mouth  at  that,  glance- 
down  at  you  from  his  six  feet-four  height,  and  smiles  in- 
dulgently. 

"Why'd  you  kill  Rango?"  you  bellow  again. 

So   Schoedsack  drawls: 

"Rango  isn't  dead.     Rango's       [  please  turn  to  page  1 


International 

Who's  the  little  girl  in  the 
opaque  cheaters?  Nobody  but 
our  best  girl  friend,  Clara  Bow, 
as  she  looked  on  the  witness- 
stand  in  the  trial  of  her  former 
secretary,  Daisy  De  Voe! 


IT  really  doesn't  look  as  though  Clara  Bow  is 
ever  going  to  get  sense  enough  to  keep  out  of 
trouble.  The  latest  mess,  this  lawsuit  that  the 
papers  have  been  full  of,  was  positively  dis- 
gusting. Her  amatory  adventures,  even  with 
Harry  Richman  and  Rex  Bell,  promote  no 
great  admiration  for  her. 

But,  now,  Clara  has  proved  herself  a  sucker. 
The  position  of  a  sucker,  in  real  life  or  on  the 
screen,  was  clearly  given  by  W.  C.  Fields,  the 
great  comedian — or,  maybe,  it  was  Texas 
Guinan: 

"Never  give  a  sucker  an  even  break!" 

"y<>r  have  read  all  the  details  in  the  news- 
■*■  papers.  There  is  no  need  to  recount  them 
here.  It  has  all  been  a  sordid  mess.  Personally 
we  <lon't  care  if  we  ever  see  Clara  Bow  on  the 
screen  again.  When  we  do,  it  will  be  with  a 
feeling  that  every  half  dollar  we  throw  to  her 
picture  means  star  sapphires  for  a  lot  of  bozos. 

TPHE  story  is  pretty  well  authenticated  in 
■*■  Los  Angchs  that  the  engagement — or 
whatever  you  call  it — between  Harry  Richman 
and  Clara  How  was  a  clever  press  agent  idea 
on  the  part  of  Hickman's  producers.  We  are 
inclined  to  believe  it.  and  give  them  credit  for 
a  very  smart  idea  of  its  kind. 

You  are  probably  fed  up  with  Clara,  and  so 
are  we. 

T""\URING  the  last  month  more  than  a 
^-^hundred  letters  have  come  in  to  Photo- 
play, asking  what  is  happening  to  Doug  and 
Mary.  Are  they  going  to  separate?  Are  they 
going  to  be  divorced? 

Personally,  we  think  it's  all  poppycock. 
Mary  and  Doug  have  just  decided  to  give  up 


York 


The    Monthly 

Hollywood 


Time  cannot  wither,  nor  custom  stale,  the  infinite  variety  of  their 
trouping.  Two  of  the  elder  stars  are  together  in  one  picture, 
"Kept  Husbands."  Clara  Kimbad  Young  makes  her  talkie  debut, 
and  Bryant  Washburn  has  a  good  role.  But  the  leads  are  played 
by  youngsters,  Dorothy  Mackaill  and  Joel  McCrea 


tf 


their  act  of  being  the  perfect  married  couple 
and  be  normal  about  it. 

Doug  is  rich,  full  of  life,  and  wants  to  travel 
and  play.  Mary  is  rich,  full  of  life,  and  wants 
to  keep  on  being  an  actress.  She  won't  give  up 
the  spotlight.  Doug  says,  "To  heck  with  it!" 
And,  after  all,  there  are  millions  of  couples 
who  have  more  real  differences  than  that. 

T^\OUG  devotes  at  least  six  hours  a  day  to 
■^-'physical  exercise — -walking,  golf  and  tennis. 
Mary  devotes  at  least  six  hours  a  day  to 
worrying  about  her  motion  picture  future. 

Doug  Wants  to  travel.  lie  feels  he  has 
earned  the  right  to  enjoy  travel.  So  Doug 
decided  he  would  go  to  the  Orient.  And,  why 
shouldn't  he?  At  this  writing,  Mary  is  in  New 
York  looking  over  plays  for  prospective  picture 
material.  She  says  she  will  join  Doug  in  Ger- 
many in  the  spring. 

"VT)U  have  probably  heard  that  story  about 

*■  Norma  Talmadge  going  on  the  stage.    She 

started  out  to  play  in  a  road  company  of  that 


snappy  New  York  show,  "The  Greeks  Had  a 
Word  for  It."  But.  the  plans  went  all  askew, 
and  Xorma  recently  returned  to  Hollywood. 
She  was  eager  to  do  a  screen  version  of  the 
play,  and  she  wanted  to  work  in  a  road  com- 
pany as  preparation. 

It's  too  bad  that  we  don't  see  more  of  Xorma 
in  the  things  that  fit  her.  For  goodness'  sake, 
won't  somebody  give  her  something  worthy  of 
her?  Xo,  producers,  not  this  "DuBarry, 
Woman  of  Passion"  junk.  We  got  enough  of 
that  from  Pola. 

IT'S  religion  that  is  holding  up  the  wedding 
of  Jeanette  Loff,  one  of  the  really  beautiful 
blondes  of  Hollywood,  and  Walter  O'Keefe. 
the  song  writer  and  cabaret  master  of  cere- 
monies. O'Keefe  is  a  fine  lad.  He  met  and 
fell  in  love  with  Miss  Loff  while  writing  songs 
and  scripts  in  Hollywood.  Recently,  she  came 
Last  to  see  him,  and  nightly  sat  at  a  back 
table  in  Barney  Gallant's  pleasant  Greenwich 
Yillage  spot  while  Walter  sang  his  songs  and 
managed  his  show. 


A 


nnouncing 


Broadcast    of 


Goi 


ings 


-On/ 


P.  and  A. 


First  picture  of  Marlene  Dietrich  with  her  husband,  Rudi  Sieber. 
This  photograph  was  snapped  as  Marlene  alighted  from  the 
train  at  Berlin,  happy  to  be  home  in  Germany  for  the  Christmas 
holidays.  For  there,  in  the  German  capital,  was  the  four-year- 
old  daughter  Marlene  had  missed  so  in  Hollywood! 


Jeanette  is  a  divorcee  and  Walter  beloi 
a  very  devout  Catholic  family.     There's  the 
rub — that  divorce.     But,  who  know.-? 

Y\  7KLL.  the  Mdivani  boys  are  prospering. 
W  They  call  themselves  Princes  of  Georgia 

Asia  Minor  .  PHOTOPLAY  once  said  that 
according  to  Webster's  dictionary  they  were 
not  princes,  and  Tola  started  to  sue  PHOTO- 
PLAY on  that  account,  but  changed  her  mind. 
She  has  also  changed  her  prince  now. 

The  Mdivani  hoys  are  really  very  nice  chaps 
— handsome,  cultured  gentlemen.  They  do 
not  need  the  prince  tag.  Hut  no  money  went 
with  the  titles,  although  in  this  country  a 
prince  is  supposed  to  be  a  pretty  high-class  guy. 

Mae  Murray's  Prince  David  has  just  struck 
oil  in  California,  and  we  understand  is  now- 
amassing  a  fortune.  The  third  brother  has 
married  into  real  society  and  money  in  the  East 

"VT-S,    it    happened.      Kay    Francis   and 
•*■  Kenneth  MacKenna  are  married. 
And  they  drove  up  to  the  license  bureau  in 


an  ambulance !  Kay  was  on  her  way  home  from 
a  hospital  where  she  had  been  treated  for  a  jaw 
ailment. 

Both  the  young  folks  have  come  fast  and  far 
in  the  talkies,  after  careers  on  the  stace.     Kay 
has  made  a  great  success  at  Paramount,  and 
Kenneth  is  both  actini:  and  directing  at 
They  played  together  in  "The  Virtuous  Sin." 

The  bride-elect  gave  her  name  as  Katherine 
Gibbs.  and  admitted  to  twenty-five  years,  while 
the  blushing  groom  said  his  name  was  Leo 
Mielziner.  Jr.,  aged  thirty-one. 

Of  course.  I'm  a  little  blighted,  having  been 
Kay's  devoted  admirer  since  "Gentlemen  of 
the  Press."  her  first  talkie.  But  put  her  there. 
Ken.  old  fellah!  I  suppose  the  best  man  won! 
We  can't  all  have  the  one  Kay. 

JUST  as  the  great  rotary  presses  started  to 
grind  out  copies  of  Photoplay  at  the  rate  of 
a  thousand  a  minute,  our  telephone  tinkled  and 
an  excited  voice  at  the  other  end  shouted, 
"It's  a  boy!"  The  other  end  of  the  telephone 
connection  was  the  Harold  Lloyd  palace  in 


What?  Can  this  be  our  elegant, 
monocled  star,  George  Arliss?  It 
not  only  can  be,  but  is!  Arliss  is 
playing  a  hard-boiled  American 
working  man  in  his  next,  "The 
Ruling  Passion" 


Beverly  Hills.  It  has  never  luen  any  secret 
that  Harold  lias  always  been  crazy  to  have  a 
little  fellow  raising  mischief  around  the  house 
and  tearing  up  the  (lowers  in  the  garden. 
The  lad  came  before  he  was  expected,  weighed 
four  and  one-half  pounds  and  the  doctor  is 
going  to  keep  him  in  an  incubator  for  a  while 
until  he  gets  strong  enough  to  come  out  and 
face  this  tough  world.  His  name? — Harold* 
Lloyd.  Jr.,  of  course. 

INA  CLAIRE  packs  a  sting  in  her 
repartee.  Walter  Winchell  retails 
this  yarn. 

Not  long  ago  she  saw  "Once  in  a 
Lifetime,"  the  screaming  satire  on  the 
picture  business,  its  people  and  its 
ways. 

"Did  you  ever  see  anything  fun- 
nier?" gushed  a  pal. 

"Yes,"  cracked  Ina — "Hollywood!" 

MAURICE  CHEVALIER,  fresh  from  a 
Ions  holiday  in  Paris  and  London,  has 
reported  for  work  at  Paramount'*  Xew  York 
studio. 

He  goes  to  work  at  once  on  "The  Smiling 
Lieutenant."  a  cay  comedy  with  some  s 
And  no  less  than  two  pretty  girls  get  a  break 
in  the  film — Claudette  Colbert,  whom  we  all 
know  and  admire,  and  Miriam  Hopkins,  the 
little  "Gawgia"  blonde  who  debuttcd  in  Para- 
mount's  "Fast  and  Loose."  Okay,  Maurice — 
do  zose  things!    The  screen  needs  you! 

AT  the  same  hour  the  same  studio  got 
another  recruit  —  Tallulah  Bankhead, 
daughter  of  Senator  Bankhead  of  Alabama, 
suh !   Tallulah  went  to  London  in  1923,  and  for 


49 


Tune    in,    folks,    on    Cal    York' 


Here's  a  new  gadget  for  you, 
girls!  Instead  of  using  the  old- 
style  monogrammed  seal,  Doro- 
thy Jordan  has  one  with  her  sil- 
houette on  it.  And  if  you  don't 
know  it's  her  profile—  it's  just 
too  bad,  so  it  is! 


seven  years  has  been  one  of  the  stage  pets  of 
the  British  capital.  Not  only  her  ability  as 
an  actress,  but  her  bizarre  personality  and 
quaint  carryings-on  have  made  her  the  most 
discussed  figure  on  the  English  stage. 

You'll  hear  a  lot  about  this  young  person. 

Her  first  American  talkie  is  to  be  "New 
York  Lady,"  and  Give  Brook  has  come  on 
from  the  Coast  to  play  opposite.  She  should 
be  sensational  on  the  screen,  this  Tallulah. 

OF  all  the  picture  people  who  pop  into  New 
York  on  business  or  pleasure  bent,  none 
kicks  up  more  dust  than  Joan  Crawford. 

Joan  fascinates  the  young  girls.  They  go 
mad  for  her.  She's  the  dashing,  vivid, 
American  type  the  little  ladies  would  like  to 
be.  Whenever  she  appears  the  riot  squad  is 
called. 

When  Joan  appeared  at  the  great  Capitol 
Theater,  where  her  'Paid"  was  showing,  the 
young  folks  practically  tore  the  house  apart. 
It  was  bedlam.  There's  something  about  this 
Crawford  lass  that  gets  'em. 

Grand  young  couple,  Doug  and  Joan.  'While 
they  were  in  Xew  York,  "Little  Caesar" 
opened  on  Broadway,  and  the  place  was 
mobbed.  Two  triumphs  for  the  kids,  and 
wli'le  they  were  in  town. 

Joan's  a  serious-minded  actress,  getting 
better  every  picture.  Doug's  work  improves 
and  matures  steadily.  He's  just  signed  with 
First  National  for  five  years — as  actor, 
writer,   director.      "I'm   going    to   learn    this 

50 


business  some  day,"  the  boy  says.  And  he 
will.  What  a  pair — young,  handsome,  pros- 
perous.    Long  may  they  wave! 

•""THOUSANDS  of  us  who  were  movie- 
*■  hungry  youngsters  ten  years  ago  have  had 
twinges  of  sad  memory  at  the  news  of  the  death 
of  Art  Acord. 

For,  a  decade  ago,  Art  was  one  of  the  noble 
film  cowboys  who  rode  the  Western  ranges, 
fighting  for  virtue.  A  hard-riding  picture  cow- 
puncher  of  the  type  that  grows  rare. 

He  served  through  the  war  as  a  private, 
first  in  the  Thirty-Ninth  Infantry  and  later 
with  the  144th  Field  Artillery.  Wounded  in 
action,  the  French  gave  him  the  Croix  de 
Guerre. 

T\  7HEN  cowboys  fell  upon  evil  times,  Art's 
**  money  departed.  A  few  months  ago  he 
went  to  Mexico,  hoping  to  recoup  his  fortunes 
— and  he  failed.  At  last,  in  a  cheap  hotel  room 
in  Chihuahua  City,  Art  Acord  took  poison. 
He  told  the  doctors  at  the  hospital  that  he 
wanted  to  die.  The  fight  had  gone  out  of  him, 
and  die  he  did.  Only  the  efforts  of  American 
Legionnaires  in  Southern  California  kept  his 
body  from  being  buried  in  the  potter's  field  of 
the  Mexican  town. 

Well,  perhaps  Art  Acord  is  riding  a  greener, 
happier  range  now.    Let's  hope  so. 

THE  New  York  World  reports 
that  newsreel  cameramen  are 
offering  heavy  odds  that  Junior  Lind- 
bergh will  talk  before  his  daddy  does. 

ONA  MUNSON  denied  right  along  that  she 
was  going  to  get  a  divorce  from  Eddie 
Buzzell,  comedian  and  director. 

Then  one  day  she  turned  up  in  Nogales, 
Ariz.,  and  filed  suit,  charging  extreme  cruelty. 
They  were  married  in  1926. 

While  Ona  was  in  New  York  she  was  seen 
a  lot  in  the  company  of  Ernst  Lubitsch,  re- 
cently divorced  from  his  wife,  Helen.  There 
is  a  report  that  Ona  and  Lubitsch  are  romanc- 
ing seriously. 


T  EAVE  it  to  Lupe  Velez  to  stand  up  for  her 
■*-'Ga-reeeee! 

Ever  since  there  has  been  a  feeling  that 
".Morocco"  was  handed  to  Marlene  Dietrich 
at  Gary  Cooper's  expense,  Loyal  Lupe  has 
added  another  impersonation  to  her  party 
repertory. 

She  is  now  said  to  go  heavily  for  an  im- 
pression of  the  German  leading  woman  who 
is  headed  full  tilt  for  stardom. 

And  I'll  bet  it  isn't  too  sweet,  either.  That 
Lupe  has  a  gift! 

GEORGE  ARLISS  had  a  black  eye 
when  he  returned  to  Hollywood 
to  make  another  story  for  Warner 
Bros. 

No,  no,  no,  no! — he  fell  out  of  a 
Pullman  berth. 

XyfARLENE  DIETRICH  had  a  grand  time 
1 ''•'•at  home  in  Germany. 

Her  reunion  with  her  husband  and  little 
daughter  was  wonderful,  and  her  American 
success  in  Paramount  talkies,  beginning  with 
"Morocco,"  sent  German  managers  scuttling 
after  her  with  offers  of  work. 

Many  famous  Berlin  impresarios  besieged 
Marlene  with  offers  for  stage  appearances.  As 
this  is  written,  she  has  smiled  them  all  off.  It's 
vacation  time  for  the  girl,  and  she  doesn't  pro- 
pose to  spoil  it  with  toil.  She'll  be  back  any 
day  now,  ready  to  make  some  more  pictuu-3 
in  Hollywood.  And  her  husband  and  child 
may  come  with  her,  this  time. 

THERE'S  a  story  going  the  rounds 
that  a  certain  new  star,  whose 
hair  is  the  color  of  platinum,  and  a 
certain  favorite,  who  has  been  called 
one  of  the  most  beautiful  girls  in 
pictures,  had  a  few  unpleasant  words 
over  the  affections  of  a  certain  mil- 
lionaire boy  producer.     Now  guess! 

XT  ENNETH  HARLAN  just  doesn't  seem  to 
■^-be  able  to  stay  married! 

First  it  was  Flo  Hart.    Then  it  was  Marie 


A  little  confab  on  the  set.  Louis  Wolheim  seems  to  be  telling  Director 
Mervyn  Le  Roy  how  to  film  a  scene  for  "Gentleman's  Fate,"  while  John 
Gilbert,  the  star,  just  laughs  it  off.  Anita  Page  appears  to  be  acting  as 
referee.  Le  Roy,  you  know,  is  the  lad  who  rang  the  bell  with  his  direc- 
tion of  "Little  Caesar" 


H  o  1  1  y  \v  o  o  d    S  t  a  t  i  o  n  —  N-E-W-S 


I'm  \  OSl       Mow  Kt  n  .m<l  No     >,  W  I" 

Hilda  Booth,  a  sodet)  girloi  Somen  illc,Ma 
.in  on  the  way  out 

"We  jual  couldn't  get  along,"  Harlan 
"We  separated  <>n  the  best  "f  terms,  and  I  wish 
ho  .ill  the  Imk  in  the  world     \\<  haven't  <li^ 
■  I  divon  e.    Time  will  de<  ide  " 

They  win-  married  in  May,  1930  There 
just  Minis  to  be  .i  jin\  mi  Harlan's  iiKirii.il 

HTIH    papers  are  full  of  the  annual  lists  of 
■*■  "ten  beat  pictures"  of  the  preceding  year 
in  this  case  the  late,  unlamented  1930. 

litre's  a  European  list,  just  to  creek  the 
monotony.  Der  Deutsche,  a  German  movie 
trade  paper,  took  a  vote  in  thirty  nine*  ountriea 
and  here's  its  list  of  "ten  best  pictures"  from 

all  over  the  world. 

"Under  the  Roofs  of  Paris"  [French  ;  "  Ml 

Quiet   on   the   Western    Front"    (American); 

"Blue    Angel"    (Made    in    Germany    by   an 

American  director);  "Anna  Christie"  |  Vmeri- 

\\ .  il  l  rent,  1918"  I  European);  "Two 

ts   in    Waltz   Time"    (German);   "With 

Byrd  at  the  South  Pi  rican     '  Fire  in 

Opera"   European  I;  "The  Big  House"    Vmeri- 

and  ".Mil  key  Mouse,"  our  own  American 

,u  i 

And  of  all  pictures,  "Mickey  Mouse"  is 
probably  the  most  truly  international.  lie's 
the   world's   pet  I 

HOW  they  love  that  Marie  Dress- 
ier!   She  is  the  pet  of  the  M-G- 
Mlot. 

Marion  Davies  saw  her  walking 
from  her  dressing  room  to  one  of  the 
far  stages  the  other  day  and  imme- 
diately gave  her  a  perfectly  appointed 
portable  dressing  room. 

IUI'1.1..  so  what  about  Virginia  Valli  and 
**  Charlie  I'arrell?  The  wedding  bells  have 
not  yet  jingled  and  plans  were  all  made  for 
the  nuptials  a  few  months  ago.  Virginia,  her- 
self, announced  the  plans  and  said  that  they'd 
be  married  as  soon  as  Charlie's  picture,  "The 


Man  Who  Came  Bai  ' 

can't  believe  the  prospective  bride,  who  are 
you  to  belli 

Hut  ••  l  he  M.m  \\  ho  Came  I  nn- 

i  hnl  and  Charlie  began  work  "in  "Body  and 
Soul "  with  the  fascinating  Eli       l 

leading  lady.     And  no  trips  to  the  altar 

made. 

(  oil  f  Stepped  into  Charlie's  life.    I  li-  mother, 

whom  be  adored,  died  the  day  before  Christ- 
mas. 

lit     was  also   worried    o\er   Jam  t    Oaynor'- 

IS  operation   when  she  was  in   Honolulu, 

for  Janet   i^  still  hi>  dearest  friend,  and  don't 

Kt  anybody  tell  you  anything  else. 

In    spite   of    all    this    he    i-.   doing    his    most 

enthusiastic  work  in  "Body  and  Soul"  and, 

after  the  manner  of  BCl  OS  very  mui  h  in- 

terested--on  the  set  at  least — in  Miss  l.andi. 

ONE  of  the  Hollywood  wits  says  he 
knows  a  bathing  gal  whose  con- 
tract was  "re-nude." 

A   B(  ITJ  I    Love  and    ftS  Aftermaths: 
■*  V  .  .  for  years,  Marceline  Day  and  Arthur 
J.    Klein,  a  furrier,  went   plans  together  but 

never  talked  of  matrimony  .  .  .  and  now 
Marceline  admits  she's  going  to  marry  him 
.  .  .  this  is  winter,  anyway,  and  times  art- 
hard,  and  furs  are  costly.   .   .   . 

.  .  .  l.eni  Stengel,  a  vampish  beauty  from 
Germany,  celebrated  Christmas  by  taking  a 
husband  .  .  .  he's  Boris  Engster,  a  Russian 
director   .   .   . 

.  .  .  everybody  wondered  when  Marjorie 
Crawford,  aviatrix,  refused  all  alimony  when 
she  divorced  a  hubby  early  in  December  .  .  . 
but  they  didn't  wonder  a  few  days  later  .  .  . 
she's  going  to  be  the  bride  of  William  Well- 
man,  director,  who  handled  the  megaphone  on 
"Wings"  .  .  .  he'll  have  good  technical  ad- 
vice right  at  home  for  his  next  flying  film.  .  .  . 

"JSJVTAI.I!':  MOORHEAD  and  Alan  I 
^^•land,  expecting  to  have  been  married 
back  last  October,  had  their  Christmas  i 
engraved  "Mr.  and  M  rs.  Alan  Croslajid"  .  .  . 


Two  girls  who  seem  to  have  found  legal  trouble  under  tropic  skies.  Ed- 
wina  Booth,  left,  was  sued  for  alienation  by  Mrs.  Duncan  Renaldo  alter 
the  "Trader  Horn"  trip  to  Africa,  and  Dorothy  Janis  and  Cameraman 
Sidney  Lund  are  said  to  have  become  involved  while  making  "The  Pagan" 
in  the  South  Seas 


Well,  here  it  is,  the  first  and  last 
picture  of  Charles  Ex-Buddy 
Rogers'  moustache.  He  grew  it  in 
the  hospital  where  he  was  recover- 
ing from  his  appendicitis  opera- 
tion, but  he  shaved  it  off  tor  his 
next  picture 


it  was  a  race'  .  .  .  they  didn't  get  married 
until  the  2Srd  of  December  .  .  . 

.   .   .  picture  and   sports  circlt  s  gi 
when  they  heard  that  Orv   Mohler,  I" 
football  star,  and  Rosita  Moreno,  black-haired 
beauty  at    Paramount,   were  betrothed  .  .  . 
but  it  turned  out  to  be  only  a  joke  on  Orv  on 
tin-  part  of  one  of  his  friends,  fur  he's  really 
engaged  to  a  non-professional  ...  it  v. 
so  funny  for  Rosita  .  .  . 

.  .  .  the  "Easiest   Way"  company  :;ocs  to 
lite  Valley  on  location  .  -  the 

Marquis  de   l.i    Falaise   i  i.   who  is 

not  working  for  that  studio  at  all  .  .  .  oh, 
yes,  Connie  Bennett's  in  the  cast  .  .  .  and 
at  the  same  time  comes  nov.  that  PhD  Plant, 
Constance's  ex-husband,  has  hatched  up  a  plot 
to  win  her  back  .  .  .  he's  having  a  radio  tenor 
sing  a  song  he's  written,  called  "My  Yester- 
day's wit  .  .  well,  radio  tenors  are 
radio  tenors  and  .  .  . 

.  .  .  ho.  ho.  hum  .  .  .  The  Lloyd  Hamikons 
have  settled  thur  alimonv  thine  at  last  .  .  . 
she  settled  for  $15,000  in  lieu  of  the  $27,000 
back  payments  she  claimed  .  .  . 

MAYBE  Ivan  Lobedeft.  the  Russian,  thinks 
he's  knocking  'em  cold  when  he  bows  and 
scrapes  and  kisses  ladies'  hands,  but  he  didn't, 
make  any  impression  at  all  on  a  Mid-Western 
visitor  to  the  studio  the  other  day. 

It  was  the  wife  of  Captain  Billy  Fawcett, 
the  publisher. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE  90  ] 


It  Ea$y  Money? 


For  every  Hollywood  star  who  pockets  her 
$2,500  a  week,  there  are  thousands  of  boys 
and  girls  who  struggle  for  $35  per  -  some  weeks! 


WILL   ROGERS   gets 
$3.5,000  a  week— when  he 
works — for  his  movies 
alone.    What  he  gets  for  writing  his  pieces  in  the 
papers,  chewing  his  gum,  brushing  his  teeth  and  rolling  his 
own,  only  himself  and  the  income-tax  man  know. 

John  McCormack  and  Al  Jolson  got  $500,000  apiece  for 
their  pictures.  Divide  that  by  an  average  of  ten  weeks,  and  it 
runs  to  S50.000  a  week. 

When  it  comes  to  Amos  V  Andy  with  their  SI, 000,000  con- 
tract— well,  it's  time  to  adjourn  to  the  adding  machines. 

Easy  money!    Or  is  it? 

Dozens  of  people  in  the  motion  picture  industry  make  umpty- 
umph  thousands  of  dollars  a  week.  At  least  three  directors  get 
SI 50.000  a  picture  each,  several  scenario  writers  are  paid 
S25.000  a  script,  even  when  they're  not  used,  stars  and  exec- 
utives draw  salaries  that  make  a  royal  potentate's  look  like  a 
telephone  girl's  after  the  wrong  numbers  have  been  deducted. 

Easy  money! 

In  the  magic  land  of  the  movies  money  grows  like  leaves  on 
the  trees — for  those  who  can  reach  that  high. 

For  the  rest,  it's  the  most  elusive  money  in  the  world,  the 
hardest  money  on  earth  to  get. 

The  pay  checks  of  the  fortunate  few  seem  enormous,  but 
what  about  the  others?  For  every  star  there  are  a  thousand 
stenographers,   for  every   director  a   thousand   drudges.      In 


By  Reginald  Taviner 


Hollywood,  as  elsewhere,  everybody 
is  reaching  for  the  moon,  but  the  ma- 
jority can't  seem  to  get  their  noses 
any  farther  than  the  grindstone. 

What  about  them?  While  Doug  Fairbanks  drew  his  S5.000 
a  day — his  salary  from  Joseph  Schenck — how  do  the  unknowns 
fare?    How  easy  is  their  money? 

Well,  as  a  star,  Alice  White  nicked  the  Warners'  treasury  for 
S2.000  a  week.  As  a  script  girl,  behind  the  camera  instead  of 
in  front  of  it,  she  got  $35.  That,  in  brief,  is  the  story;  and  even 
as  a  script  girl,  Alice  was  fortunate.  Lots  of  them  get  less  than 
she  did — and  they  don't  get  even  that  much  all  the  time.  Be- 
tween pictures  the  star  gets  paid,  but  most  often  the  script 
girl  doesn't. 

FIGURES — the  kind  that  go  on  paper  instead  of  into  step-ins 
— are  frequently  dull.  But  they  are  always  illuminating. 
Consider,  then,  the  fact  that  the  average  salary  of  everybody  in 
the  motion  picture  business  is  less  than  S55  a  week. 

These  are  official  figures,  from  the  California  State  Bureau 
of  Labor. 

Consider,  too,  that  it  takes  a  lot  of  small  salaries  to  bring 
one  big  one  down  to  such  an  average — that  there  must  be 
thousands  'way  below  that  figure  for  every  one  so  far  above  it. 

Yet,  all  over  the  world,  people  seem  to  think  that  getting 
into  the  movies  is  like  getting  into  the  mint. 


Doug  Fairbanks  wearied  of  producing  his  own 

pictures  and  made  "Reaching  for  the  Moon"  on 

Joseph  Schenck's  payroll.    He  got  $5,000  a  day. 

Some  salary !    But  for  how  many  days? 


When  Alice  White  hit  stardom  for  First  National 

she  had  battled  her  way  to  a  salary  of  $2,000  a 

week.  As  a  script  girl  she  had  collected  $35  per — 

and  many  of  them  get  less 


Here's    a    Hollywood    payroll-    from    star    to    prop-boy! 


It  is,  when  Paul  Whiteman,  or 
Rudy  Vallee,  or  Moran  and  Mack  do 
it  Making  pictures  as  Mary  I'ick- 
ford,  Harold  Lloyd,  or  Charlie  Chap- 
lin make  them  is  better  than  turning 
out  your  own  hundred-dollar  bills. 
But  there's  another  side  to  that,  too. 

Pickford,  Lloyd,  Chaplin  and  a  few  others  have  been  for 
years  the  recognized  top-notchers  in  the  movie  racket.  Vet 
they  have  made  incomparably  less  than  the  top-notchers  in 
almost  any  other  racket.  The  motion  picture  business  is  the 
fourth  largest  in  the  world,  yet  the  individual  earnings  of  its 
leading  figures  are  mere  chicken-feed  among  the  incomes  of 
other  industries. 

Charlie  Schwab's  "bonuses"  alone  would  make  any  movie 
idol's  salary  look  like  a  button  in  a  collection  plate. 

CONSIDERED  from  that  standpoint,  the  salaries  of  even  the 
biggest  names  on  the  billboards  aren't  so  princely  for  the 
pinnacle  they  have  reached.  Especially  is  this  true  when  it  is 
remembered  that  such  figures  as  Banker  Baker,  the  Fisher 
brothers,  and  other  leaders  in  the  business  world  are  mere  non- 
entities in  the  eyes  of  the  general  public  when  compared  with 
Ronald  Colman  or  Oreta  Garbo,  who  don't  for  instance,  make 
one-tenth  the  money  they  do. 

But  it  is  away  from  the  charmed  circle  of  the  big  shots  that 
the  real  figures  lie. 

For  every  Clara  Bow  at  S3, 500  a  week  on  the  altar  of  "It," 
there  are  hundreds  of  redheads,  natural  and  otherwise,  teasing 
typewriters  or  cranking  comptometers  at  from  S16  to  (27.50. 
For  every  Lubitsch  at  $15,000  there  are  dozens  of  dire, 
making  serials,  shorts  and  whatnots  for  $75.  Many,  many 
-tant  directors,  who  have  as  much  to  do  as  a  drummer  in  a 
jazz  band,  do  it  for  from  $35  to  S50.  and  by  the  picture,  at  that. 

Eliminating  altogether  the  pathetic  army  of  "extras"  as  not 
truly  representative  at  all.   there  are  plenty  of  others  in  the 


In  this  one  picture  is  the  story  of  Hollywood's 
"easy"  money.  Richard  Wallace,  Gary  Cooper 
and  Co.  are  shooting  "The  Man  from  Wyom- 
ing." Wallace  and  Cooper  get  the  big  money, 
rain  or  shine.  The  boss  cameraman  gets  a  nice 
wage.  The  grip,  left,  and  the  script  girl  get  plenty 
less— when  they  work! 


industry  who  find  that  the  only  thing 
well-greased  about  their  jobs  is  the 
skids. 

On  a  tour  of  any  studio  lot,  you 
will  first  approach  the  reception  clerk 
That  job  requires  a  lot  of  tact  and 
diplomacy — usually  conspicuou>  by 
its  absence — for  from  $20  to  $35  a  week,  and  any  downtown 
dentist  has  to  pay  that  much  for  a  girl  to  sit  in  his  office.  Then, 
the  policeman  who  passes  you  in  may  get  S30  a  week  or  he  may 
not,  but  he  usually  has  to  furnish  his  own  (admiral's'  uniform. 
However,  an  ordinary  "tlatfoot"  on  the  Hollywood  force — 
they  get  that  way  from  chasing  bandits  around  the  dance  halls 
— is  paid  $185  a  month  to  start,  so  the  studios  don't  seem  so 
'easy"  there. 

doing  through  the  Front  Office  towards  the  stages,  you  will 
probably  pass  the  mailing  room,  the  scenario  department,  and 
any  number  of  attractive  young  secretaries,  each  attached 
professionally,  of  course,  to  an  executive.  In  the  mailing  room, 
youths  predominate  at  around  $15  a  week,  while  the  secre- 
taries' checks  read  anywhere  from  $35  to 

The  personal  secretary  of  a  big  producer  frequently  is  paid 
as  much  as  $100  a  week,  but  the  same  ability  in  the  business 
world  would  make  her  a  vice-president  at  least  and  her  boss  a 
billionaire. 

Till",  scenario  department  of  every  studio  is  a  law  unto  itself, 
the  salaries  ranging  all  the  way  from  $25  to  S40  a  week  for  a 
reader  to  from  $75  to  any  amount  you  happen  to  think  of  for 
a  writer. 

Here,  though,  enters  the  "mortality"  phase  of  motion  pic- 
ture work.  Frequently,  executive  heads  fall  faster  than  did 
those  of  the  aristocrats  during  the  French  Revolution.  General 
managers,  at  $500  to  $1,500  a  week:  supervisors,  at  $250  to 
$750;  musical  directors,  at  S150  to  S500;  production  managers, 
at  $200  to  $550,  and  similar  [  please  turn  to  page   123  ] 


THE   NATIONAL   GUIDE   TO   MOTION    PICTURES 


%W3 


* 


RESURRECTION— Universal 


THIS  talkie  version  of  an  old  tale  shapes  up  into  a 
triumph  for  Lupe  Yelez.  How  that  girl  from  Mexico  can 
act!  Hers  is  one  of  the  best  performances  of  this  or  any 
other  month,  and  she's  all  fire,  beauty  and  sincerity,  first  as 
the  simple  country  girl  and  then  as  the  woman  of  the  streets. 
It's  what's  known  as  running  the  gamut  of  emotions. 

You  remember  the  silent  version.  You  remember  the 
story — Tolstoy's.  Perhaps  you're  tired  of  it,  for  the  prob- 
lem (it  concerns  a  man's  sin  and  a  woman's  payment)  is 
pretty  old-fashioned  and  even  a  little  ridiculous  now,  but 
this  film  is  so  well  directed  and  played  that  you'll  forgive  the 
hackneyed  plot. 

John  Boles  sings  so  nicely  you  want  more.  Snow  stuff  is 
magnificent. 


* 


GENTLEMAN'S  FA TE—M-G-M 


MY,  but  we  are  happy  again.    This  picture  proves,  to  the 
nth  degree,  that  Jack  Gilbert  needs  only  the  right  story 
and  direction  to  have  all  his  old  appeal. 

Honors  are  shared  with  Louis  Wolheim,  who  gives  a  flaw- 
less performance  as  the  tough  brother,  whose  naive  tender- 
ness cannot  be  hidden.  Jack  is  supported  by  two  beautiful 
blondes — Anita  Page  and  Leila  Hyams,  both  of  whom  do 
their  work  appealingly,  while  Marie  Prevost  and  George 
Cooper  do  well  with  the  comedy  roles. 

The  story  is  tense  drama,  dealing  with  the  fate  of  a 
wealthy  man  who  suddenly  discovers  he  is  the  son  of  a 
racketeer.  Mervvn  LeRoy  deserves  much  credit  for  the  sus- 
tained suspense  of  this  picture,  and  for  the  beautiful  manner 
in  which  he  gives  us  back  the  old  Jack  Gilbert. 

64 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

(iilg   c.s  j-at  oft.)      M 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


-k 


CITY  LIGHTS— Chaplin-United  Artists 


AT  last! — Chaplin's  long-awaited  silent  picture,  the  first 
big  silent  since  talkies.  It  proves  his  contention — 
should  he  utter  one  word,  the  inimitable  magic  of  this  arch- 
pantomimist  would  go  pft!  As  a  silent  epic  of  pantomime, 
"City  Lights"  is  a  ninety-minute  delight;  as  a  talkie,  it 
would  have  been  just  another  talkie. 

Like  his  every  other  film,  it  is  a  grand  compound  of  broad 
and  subtle  humor,  burlesque,  irony,  hilarious  vulgarity,  and 
the  master  touch  of  pathos  that  distinguishes  his  comedies. 

Its  story  is  sweet,  but  unimportant  beside  the  heights  of 
comedy  and  pathos  it  attains.  Not  in  years  has  there  been 
a  scene  as  funny  as  Charlie's  hiccoughs  with  a  penny  whistle 
stuck  in  his  windpipe,  or  as  pathetic  as  the  closing  shot. 

Of  sound,  there's  a  gorgeous  symphonic  accompaniment 
composed  by  Chaplin,  with  an  infrequent  dubbing-in  of  some 
essential  sounds — but  never  voice.  Yoice  is.  however,  crazily 
burlesqued  by  wind  instruments — and  if  Charlie  isn't 
kidding  talkies  there,  we're  crazy. 

Yirginia  Cherrill  makes  her  screen  debut,  as  Chaplin's  new 
leading  lady.  She  brings  a  fragile,  blonde  loveliness  and  a 
keen  understanding  of  the  requirements  of  voiceless  acting 

You  can't  get  away  from  the  fact  that  "City  Lights''  is 
another  Chaplin  masterpicture.     Sound. 


SAVES    YOUR    PICTURE    TIME    AND    MONEY 


The  Host  Pictures  of  the  Month 


(  n  v  ugh  rs 

Kl  SI  KKI  (  noN 
1111    SOI    IHERNER 


TRADER   HORN 
GENTLEMAN'S  EATE 
1111    GANG  BUSTER 


SEAS  BENEATH 
The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 

Charles  Chaplin  in  "City  Lights" 

Harry  Carey  in  "Trader  Horn" 

Edwina  Booth  in  "Trader  Horn" 

Lupe  Velcz  in  "Resurrection" 

John  Gilbert  in  "Gentleman's  Fate" 

Louis  Wolheim  in  "Gentleman's  Fate" 

George  O'Brien  in  "Seas  Bene.uh" 

Jack  Oakie  in  "The  Gang  Buster" 

Constance  Bennett  in  "The  Easiest  Way" 

Joan  Crawford  in  "Dance  Fools,  Dance" 

Helen  Twelvetrees  in  "Millie" 

Lawrence  Tibbett  in  "The  Southerner" 

Esther  Ralston  in  "The  Southerner" 

Richard  Dix  in  "Cimarron"  (omitted  from  last  month's  list) 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  reviewed  will  be  found  on  page  134 


* 


TRADER  HORX-M-G-M 


HERE  it  is — the  picture  that  was  more  than  two  years  in 
the  making,  which  demanded  that  an  entire  company 
butt  its  way  through  the  African  jungle  with  ineffectual 
recording  apparatus. 

Months  on  the  Black  Continent,  doing  the  visual  stuff — 
months  at  the  studio,  working  with  sound;  this  film  cost 
M-G-M  hundreds  of  thousands  of  dollars;  Edwina  Booth, 
her  health;  and  Mrs.  Duncan  Renaldo,  her  husband. 

But  it  was  worth  all  that  and  more,  for  it  is  one  of  the 
most  tremendous  pictures  ever  made.  Primarily,  this  excel- 
lence is  due  to  the  drama  of  the  story,  wrung  out  to  the  last 
drop  of  suspense  by  Director  Van  Dyke.  But  1  larry  Carey,  as 
Trader  Horn  (not  the  bearded  story-teller  but  the  active 
hero  of  his  own  yarns  places  himself  with  the  greatest  actors 
in  Hollywood.  Edwina  Booth  gives  as  strange  and  passion- 
ate a  performance  as  you'll  see  in  many  a  movie  moon. 
Mutia,  the  black  boy,  almost  steals  the  show.  Duncan 
Renaldo  could  have  been  better.  Besides  all  this,  there  are 
the  animals,  here  used  more  effectively  than  in  any  travel 
picture,  and  utter  photographic  perfection. 

"  Trader  Horn"  is  a  two-fold  achievement,  combining  as 
it  does  the  spectacle  and  epic  qualities  of  this  type  of 
picture  with  drama  and  breathless  personal  interest. 


* 


THE  SOUTHERXER     M-G-M 


THIS   gay    picture   has   charm,    excellent   comedy — and 
Lawrence  Tibbett.    It's  mighty  entertaining. 

"The  Southerner"  also  brings  back  Esther  Ralston  to  the 
screen,  and  she  proves  her  right  to  an  important  place  in 
talking  pictures  by  her  work  here.  And  she  strms  more 
beautiful  than  ever,  if  that's  possible. 

Tibbett    plays    the   singing    black    sheep   of   a    wealthy 
Southern  family,  who  tramps  for  five  yean  and  then  comes 
home  to  Esther.    And  the  picture  is  aided  tremendously  b 
the  sterling  comedy  of  Roland  Young,  Cliff  Edwards 
Stepin  Fetchit. 

You'll  see  Tibbett  out  of  uniform  for  the  first  time.  But, 
even  in  the  rags  of  a  tramp,  the  man  has  glamour.  And  how 
he  siiii,'-.! 


it 


THE  G.WG  BUSTER— Paramount 


WELL,  they  finally  dug  up  a  good,  funny  story  for  Jack 
Oakie,  and  in  it  he  does  his  best  work  in  a  lone,  long 
time.  "The  Gang  Buster"  is  elegant  comic  entertainment, 
with  Oakie  as  a  sap  insurance  salesman  from  Arkansas  who 
breezes  into  the  big  town  and  gets  involved,  head  over  spats, 
in  a  lot  of  gang  monkey-busini 

The  picture's  a  furiously  fast  mixture  of  comedy  and 
melodrama.  Oakie  is  menaced  by  William  (stage)  Boyd  as 
the  gang  leader.  The  girl  interest  is  furnished  very  prettily 
by  Jean  Arthur,  who  only  needs  a  few  real  parts  to  click  in 
a  big  way.  William  Morris,  Chester's  father,  plavs  Jean's 
dad. 

This  is  the  sort  of  thing  we  need  and  want  from  Oakie. 
Give  the  boy  and  the  picture  a  few  big  hands. 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List! 


* 


SEAS 

BENE  AT H- 
Fox 


THE  EASIEST 

WAY— 

M-G-M 


GEORGE  O'BRIEN  trades  his  cowboy  suit  for  a  navy  cap 
and  docs  a  grand  job  of  starring  in  this  dashing  adventure 
story  of  submarines  during  the  war.  One  of  America's  biggest 
subs  was  lent  by  the  government  for  this  film.  John  Loder 
and  Mona  Maris  give  fine  performances,  and  Marion  Lessing 
is  the  pretty  love  interest.  Good  fast  melodrama  that  everyone 
in  the  familv  will  like. 


THIS  one  is  modern,  sophisticated,  beautifully  directed, 
superbly  acted  by  Constance  Bennett,  Adolphe  Menjou, 
Bob  Montgomery,  Anita  Page  and  the  rest,  and  stunningly 
costumed.  It  isn't  important  enough  to  be  a  great  picture,  but 
it's  certainly  worth  its  celluloid  weight  in  entertainment.  In 
it,  Connie  Bennett  is  a  luxurious  lad}'  who  falls  in  love  with  a 
poor  man.    Menjou  is  the  wealthy  lover,  of  course. 


NO  LIMIT— 
Paramount 


THE  MAN 
WHO  CAME 
BACK— 
Fox 


THIS  picture  was  titled  ';No  Limit"  after  Clara  Bow's  little 
escapade  in  a  gambling  house  in  Nevada.  Clever — these 
picture  lads.  In  this  she's  a  flapper,  an  usherette  and  a 
gangster's  moll.  She  wears  some  amazing  clothes.  Her  hair 
is  light  and  she's  thinner  than  her  lingerie.  Stuart  Erwin  and 
Harry  Green  are  funny.  Norman  Foster  is  romantic.  It  may 
amuse  you  and  it  may  not. 


THE  first  picture  to  bring  Gaynor  and  Farrell  back  together, 
this  leads  them  through  much  sin  to  the  Shanghai  water- 
front. Here  love  reforms  them  and  they  climb  painfully  back 
to  New  York  and  Charlie's  billions.  Raoul  Walsh,  directing, 
tried  for  a  lyric  effect  and  missed.  Sophisticates  will  give  it 
one  big  horse  laugh.  At  moments  it  touches  "7th  Heavens'' 
romance,  but  only  at  moments. 


DANCE 
FOOLS, 
DANCE— 
M-G-M 


MILLIE— 
Radio  Pictures 


AGAIN  Joan  Crawford  proves  herself  a  great  dramatic 
actress.  Again  Billy  Bakewell  turns  in  a  fine  performance 
as  her  weak  younger  brother.  The  story,  which  concerns  a  one 
time  wealthy  girl,  who  must  work  for  her  living,  and  a  brother 
who  falls  in  with  gangsters,  is  hokum— but  it's  good  hokum 
and  Joan  breathes  life  into  her  characterization.  It's  fast  and 
thrilling  entertainment. 

56 


A  WASHED-UP  version  of  the  book  with  just  enough  of 
the  risque  retained  to  make  spice,  tense  drama  which 
brings  tears;  light  humor  which  brings  chuckles.  Helen 
Twelvetrees  proves  definitely  her  right  to  stardom,  while 
Eilyan  Tashman,  Joan  Blondell.  Anita  Louise  and  Robert 
Ames  give  her  just  the  correct  run  for  honors.  Worth  seeing. 
Only  careless  direction  keeps  it  from  the  top  of  our  list. 


The   First   and    Best   Talkie   Reviews! 


i  in 

/•  UNTl  i> 
n>  si  in 
Pat  he 


llll) 
Mil  I  l(J\ 
I  HI  \(  ll\ll  \ 
II  timers 


YOU'LL  like  this  Western,  which  makes  do  pretenses  other 
th.m  entertainment.    It's  far  above  the  average,  with  Hill 

Boyd  lull  huh.  the  movie  a<  tor),  BS  i 1 1 - 1  the  sort  of  virile  guy 

be  does  best,  and  J    Farrel]  MacDonald  and  William  Farnum, 

swell  as  the  two  old  Westerners  who  quarrel  hut  almosl  kiss 
and  certainly  make  up.    Helen  Twelvetrees  is  the  girl,    you'll 

find  it  a  nice  show. 


THIS  jj  a  comedy.    It  moves  bo  fast  you're  weak  when  you 
leave   the    theater.      No   songs,    no   dai  ■  gag 

right  after  the  oilier  and  good  gags,  too.     It's  all  in    I « «  hni- 
Color.     Olsen  and  Johnson   walk   away   with   honors.     'I  I  • 
everything  in   it   hut   the   kite  hen  sink   and  you   wouldn't   he 
surprised  to  see  that.    It  concerns  American  tourists  in  Paris. 
Be  sure  to  see  it. 


/)/v'  \CULA— 
I  'niversal 


I    >1.L— 
I  o* 


RECOMMENDED  for  the  mystery-minded.  It's  creepy 
and  thrilly  but  it  could  have  been  better,  and  before  it's 
over  you're  pretty  confused  about  this  vampire  (a  batdike 
demon,  not  a  lady  in  black  negligee)  business.     Bela  Lugosi 

fixes  his  victims  with  hypnotic  eyes  and  everybody  in  the 
audience  says.  "OUH."  Helen  Chandler  does  grand  work  as 
the  terrified  heroine  and  you'll  get  your  spinal  chill. 


THIS  one  is  as  trite  as  a  star's  ideas  on  life,  but  not  half  so 
amusing.  The  railroad  engineer  falls  in  love  with  a  show- 
girl and  then,  to  make  amends,  saves  her  from  drowning.  I-  - 
just  too  darn  bad  that  Edmund  Lowe,  fine  actor  that  hi 
should  be  called  upon  to  waste  his  talents  in  stuff  like  this,  and 
.Mae  Clarke  too,  is  obliterated  by  a  bad  Story.  Nothil  g 
regret  if  you  miss  it. 


MANY    \ 

SLIP— 

Universal 


J  \MS  OF 
HE1  1 
Sona  Art- 

iinrhi   II 


CASTING  Joan  Bennett  and  Lew  Ayres  as  the  leads  in 
this  was  not  the  brightest  piece  of  work  of  the  year!  It's 
a  wise-cracking  dialogue  comedy  with  its  lines' revolving 
entirely  about  the  humorous  (?)  question  of  whether  or  not 
the  heroine  is  to  become  a  mama.  Of  course,  some  audiences 
will  guffaw  at  this,  while  others  will  just  wonder  why  it  was 
ever  made. 


OUR  British  friends  go  spectacular,  with  this  talkie  v< 
of  "The  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade.''  that  poem  dear  to 
the  hearts  of  patriotic  Englishmen.  The  charge  itself  is 
thrilling  and  well  handled  in  this,  but  the  romantic  story  on 
w  hich  it  is  hung  is  weak.  Cyril  McLaglen,  one  of  Victor's  many 
brothers,  plays  the  lead. 

[  ADDITIONAL  REVIEWS  ON  PAGE   116  ] 


'IIT'IIHX  you  see  Olsen  and  Johnson,  the  nut 
*  »  comics,  sliding  through  the  streets  of 
Paris  in  "Fifty  Million  Frenchmen,"  you'll 
know  it  was  done  this  way.  All  these  con- 
traptions—  lights,  camera,  microphone — to- 
gether with  crew,  were  on  a  rolling  platform 


Sliding 

H 


ome : 


/ 


58 


A  Real  Sheik  Sees 


^ 


ASHEIK!    a  real 
sheik'     has  been  in 
Hollywood.    And 
oh! 
He  is  back  home  in  Tan- 
gier now,  is  Abdeslam   Ben 
Mohammed    Khoubarik. 
Back  home  in  Tangier  \\  ith 

his  five  wives,  and  a  sheil 
headful  Of  ideas  about  Holly- 
wood and  its  women  and  its 

habits. 

Abdeslam  admitted  he  was  tired, 

very  tired,  when  he  left  Hollywood 

to  go  ba<  k  i"  Africa.  Bui  in  Tan- 
gier, where  his  religion  requires  him 
to  be  faithful  to  his  five  wives  and 

to  drink  DO  spirituous  concoctions, 

Abdeslam  feels  that,  in  five  or  si\ 
months,  he  will  have  recovered  from 
Hollywood  and  be  himself  again. 

And  then,  lie  invited  the  hoys 
with  whom  he  worked  in  Holly- 
wood to  come  over  and  visit  him 
sometime. 

"I  wed  do  my  best,"  he  said  in 
his  perfect  but  accented  English, 
"  to  repay  your  hospeetalitee  as  you 
extended  it  to  me  in  HoLleewood. 
My  house,  my  all,  my  wives  weel 
be  at  your  deesposal!" 

Abdeslam — they  got  to  calling 
him  "Ab'sl'm"  for  short,  finally — 
was  brought  to  Hollywood  by 
Radio  Pictures,  to  act  as  technical 
adviser  during  the  African  se- 
quences of  "The  Devil's  Battal- 
ion," so  everything  would  be  true  to 
life.  Back  in  his  Tunis.  Ab'sl'm  is  a 
big  shot.  He  is  a  well  educated 
gentleman;  speaks  five  langu.'. 
and  has  traveled  much.  But  never 
before  to  Hollywood. 

AN  1>  so, when  hewasapproached 
by  French  authorities  in  Tan- 
gier, on  behalf  of  Radio  Pictures,  he 
considered    his    the    wives,    sighed 

itically  at  thoughts  of  visiting 
this  so-much-talked-about  Holly- 
wood, and  said  "Ouil" 

He  landed  in  New  York  with 
great  anticipations  and  a  complete 
wardrobe  of  sheik's  clothes,  and  no 
other  attire.  He  never  wore  Kuro- 
pean  clothes  once  in  Hollywood, 
and  it  wasn't  a  gag,  either.  He 
thinks  our  sort  of  attire  is  silly. 

Especially  women's. 

"Your  weem'n."  he  complained, 

wear   too  lcetle  clothes  for  one 

t'ing,  and  too  motch  for  anodder!"' 


OLLT/FOOD 


Abdeslam    of   Tunis   leaves 

his  five  wives  at  home  and  has 

a  look  at  our  movie  maids. 

Too  thin!"  says  Abdeslam 


By 


Ti 


Of}/ 


Ellis 


u'-r* 


Abdeslam,  the  genuine  article  in  sheiks, 
who  has  been  in  Hollywood  acting  as 
technical  adviser  on  "The  Devil's  Bat- 
talion." As  you  see,  Ab'sl'm  has  faith  in 
the  modern  wrist  watch 


Where  he  ( omes  from,  be 
explained,  women  wearplenty 

of  clothes  when  they  appear 

in  public  If  clothes  are  to 
cover  the  body,  then  why  doI 

cover  the  body?  But  in  their 
homes  ah,  there  is  where 
women  dress  for  well,  com- 
fort. 

"  Hot  in  Holleewood,  on  de street, 

dey  wear  loo  lcetle!     l£en  de  QOUM, 
dev  wear  too  motch,  too  motch'' 

But  what  of  it?  I  loll;, 
women  a  re  no  beau  tic. 
Ab'sl'm.      1  hey  are  "too  theen." 

AB'SL'M'S  own  five  wives,  he 
forth,  are  well  upholstered. 
It  took  him  a  long  while,  in  Holly- 
wood, to  get  used  to  the  thinness  of 
American  beauties. 

And  his  peak  moment  on  Ameri- 
can soil  was  on  location  near  the 
Mexican  border. 

A  bunch  of  the  boys  took  Ab'sl'm 
to  a  trans-border  ren>rt  for  a  little 
whoopee,  Hollywood  style.  And 
there,  Allah  be  praised!  Ab'sl'm 
found  a  lovely  Mexican  lady.  She- 
weighed  about  300.  He  said,  the 
next  day,  that  it  had  made  him 
homesick. 

"When  in  Hollywood,  do  as  the 
HoUywoodsmen  do."  was  Ab'sl'm's 
motto.  Through  the  inner  art  les 
of  filmland,  there  circulate  mar- 
velous one  thousand  and  one 
Arabian-nights  tales  of  Ab'sl'm's 
prowess  at  the  bowl  and  with  the 
damsels.  Ab'sl'm,  when  twitted 
thereabout,  merely  grinned  with 
those  perfect  dashing  teeth,  and 
said  that  sheiks  were  strong  men, 
after  all. 

"But  what  of  your  religion?'' 
they  asked  him.  "Is  it  not  said 
that  you  shall  abstain  from  liquors 
and  shall  be  true  to  your  wivi 

"Ah,  eet  ees  so,"'  replied  Ab'sl'm. 
"But  w'en  I  get  back  to  Tunis,  I 
shall  feci  it  op  weeth  Allah!" 

The  day  they  showed  Ab'sl'm  a 
Hollywood  "sheik"  was  awful. 
One  of  the  boys  from  the  studio  w  as 
driving  Ab'sl'm  to  his  hotel,  when 
they  passed  a  corner  drugstore. 
There  stood  a  youth  with  patent 
leather  hair  and  abortive  moustache 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  133  ] 

59 


Gloria's  Hank  Rebels/ 

No  longer  "married  to  a  business  man,"  the  Marquis 
trudges  off  to  work.    And  Connie  Bennett?    Ah! 


HENRI  de  BAILLY  de  la 
FALAISE,  Marquis  de  la 
Coudray,  known  to  his 
friends  as  "Hank"  and  to 
his  secretary  as  "  Mr.  Ealaise,"  has  gone  to  work  with  a  venge- 
ance. He  has  become  a  personality.  He  has  an  office  on  the 
Radio  Pictures  lot,  where  he  is  the  supervisor  of  French  versions 
of  that  studio's  product.  He  is  no  longer  "  Gloria  Swanson's 
husband."  The  prince  consort  of  one  of  the  queens  of  the 
Holly  woods  has  revolted. 

And  behind  this  simple  gesture  is  a  story  so  parallel  to 
Ernst  Lubitsch's  film,  "The  Love  Parade,"  that  as  the  real 
yarn  becomes  apparent  one  can  see  the  Marquis  and  Gloria 
acting  the  scenes  instead  of  Maurice  Chevalier,  another 
Frenchman,  and  Jeanette  MacDonald. 

Once  Hank  said,  laughingly,  and  without  the  slightest 
malice,  "I'm  not  married  to  a  woman,  but  a  business  man." 

And  the  idea  behind  that  gay  remark  is,  I  believe,  the  crux 
of  all  the  trouble  between  Gloria  Swanson  and  her  Marquis. 

Gloria  is  a  business  man,  with  that  strange  absorption  in 
her  work  all  big  business  men  know. 

They  were  married  January  28,  1925.     To  Henri,  his  wife 
was  simply   the  most  lovely  woman  he  had  ever  known. 
He  did  not  realize  until  he  came  with  her  to  Hollywood  and 
saw  banners  of  welcome  hung  skywards,  throngs  of  people 
to  pay  her  homage,-tired  eyes  looking  at  her  adoringly, 
that  she  was  at  that  time  the  most  important  star  of 
the  films.      And   he   discovered   himself   merely   an 
appendage.    He  was  simply  "that  count  or  marquis 
or  prince  or  something"  that  "our  Gloria"  had 
married. 

It  must  have  been  a  shock. 

At  the  time  of  their  marriage  a  friend  of 
Gloria's  said,  "Hank  is  the  perfect  mate  for 
Gloria.    He  is  amusing,  charming,  whimsi- 
cal, a  thoroughly  delightful  companion. 
And  that's  just  what  Gloria  needs." 

That's  what  Gloria  needs!     Gloria, 
coming  home  after  a  hard  day's  work. 
Gloria,  rilled  with  the  flame  of  a 
new  screen  characterization. 
Gloria,  weary  from  reading  new 
scripts,    trying   on   new   cos- 
tumes.     Gloria   needed   an 
amusing,  charming,  whim- 
sical, delightful  compan- 
ion. 

Do  you  remember 


By    Katherine   Albert 


those  almost  identical  scenes  from 
"The  Love  Parade"?  The  only 
difference  is  that  "The  Love 
Parade"  ended  happily.  Perhaps 
this  real  story  has  ended  happily,  too.  Once  Gloria  said, 
"  There  is  no  reason  why  I  should  feel  humble  at  having  married 
a  Marquis.  In  America  there  are  no  titles  except  those  of 
achievement.    I  think  I've  earned  such  a  title." 

IN  France,  where  they  were  married,  Hank  took  Gloria  to 
meet  his  friends.  But  West  of  the  Mississippi  is  Gloria's  yard. 
The  Marquis  was  presented  to  her  friends. 

Gloria  has  an  amazing  habit  of  doing  anything  that  comes 
her  way  skilfully  and  well.  Once  Hank  taught  her  a  game,  the 
name  of  which  escapes  me,  rather  like  chess,  but  more  difficult. 
It  is  the  sort  of  game  that  bearded  Frenchmen  ponder  over  for 
hours  at  a  time.  Hank  played  it  well,  had  done  so  for  years. 
He  showed  it  to  Gloria.  In  a  few  weeks  she  was  playing  it 
almost  as  expertly  as  he  and  delighting  in  her  achievement,  as 
she  always  does. 

In  their  home — her  home — Gloria's  wishes,  Gloria's  accom- 
plishments came  first.     She  was  surrounded  by  a  coterie  of 
adoring  satellites  who  worshipped  at  her  shrine.      Gloria's 
home.    Gloria's  success.    Gloria's  friends,  and  Hank  was  the 
amusing,  charming  person  whom  Gloria  had  married. 
No  wonder,  when  the  divorce  was  filed,  that  the  Marquis 
said,  "Hollywood  is  no  place  to  be  married.     Had  I 
kept  my  bride  in  France  the  present  situation  would 
never  have  arisen." 
And  here  are  some  of  the  statements  that  Gloria 
has  made  to  the  press.    "My  husband  occupies  a 
position  of  importance  in  his  own  country.     In 
France  I  am  his  wife.     In  America.  I  am  a 
motion  picture  star  with  business  and  artistic 
problems  to  work  on  each  day.    He  comes  to 
this  country.     He  has  very  little  to  do. 
I  am  at  the  studio  all  day,  engrossed  in 
my  business. 
J&  He  has  jet  to  find  w hat  he  wishes  to 

do  [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE   1 10  ] 


"Hank"— the    Marquis    de    la 
Falaise    to    you — as    a    hard- 
bitten business  man,  at  his 
desk  on  the  Radio  Pictures 
lot.     His  French  version 
ol  "The  Royal  Bed"  has 
proved  a  real  success 


60  2 


G 


OO 


j 


Girl, 
Anita! 


•  /#»k/     J  II  give  you    O/even    "  'Joints  on  your   TJutnmer  C  ^nlfil 


This  summer  outfit  of  Anita  Page's  has  these  seven 
features  everybody  will  be  wearing  by  summer,  just 
as  sure  as  sunshine: 

\%      Your  sports  dress   is    double-breasted — a   slick 
fashion. 

2.  Your  gay  and  pleasandy-peasant   knitted  jacket 
goes  fashion-fine  with  your  white  silk  dress. 

3.  Your  jacket's  sleeves  are  short.       That  makes 
them  new. 

^.      Your  gloves  are  longish  and  do  a  good  fashion 
wrinkling  job  around  your  pretty  wrists. 


5.  Your  hat's  as  thin  as  paper.  Its  brim  is  cut 
away  from  your  face.  It's  white — matching 
your  dress.  And  banded  in  a  color  to  match 
vour  jacket. 

ft.      Your   shoes — opera  pumps — right    in    fashion. 

7.  And  I  notice  with  this  highish  neckline  vou 
wear  no  necklace — another  fashion  point. 

And  this  fashion  outfit  isn't  just  for  Anita  alone. 
All  of  you,  who  know  your  fashions,  can  get  it — or 
will  be  able  to  get  it  or  its  sisters — any  place.  It's 
slick.  I  tell  you. 


T 


wo 


Fashi 


asmon 


Thrill 


ers 


IxJhich   CJ   gailv  <ZJ  iclc  jor  their  r  J  rivolous   C  J  rills 


I'll  give  Bebe  Daniels  three  fashion  counts  here 
in  her  glorified  negligee. 

Black  velvet — soft  and  boudoirish!     That's 
good! 

*J.  It's  made  like  an  evening  wrap,  going  clear 
around  to  the  side.  But  it's  draped  with  lace, 
which  makes  it  stay  indoors. 

Q  It's  called  an  intime.  Which  means  nothing 
at  all  to  me.  But  it's  one  of  those  things 
millions  would  like  to  wear.  Few  ever  get  a 
chance  to  wear  as  costly  a  version  as  this 
vision. 

But  cheer  up— many  can  afford  its  inexpensive 
cousins — that  can  be  just  as  glorious — if  not  quite 
as  grand. 

You  can't  expect  to  keep  up  with  the  amount 
these  Hollywood  girls  spend  on  their  clothes,  but 
once  you  get  an  idea  you  like  it  simplifies  your 
shopping. 


I  see  no  less  than  four  fashion  points  in  this 
gang  of  sparklers  worn  by  Myrna   (Vamp)  Loy. 

Not  one,  but  four  sapphire  bracelets.  That's 
the  way  fashion  likes  her  bracelets. 

<J#  Your  earrings  are  swellelegant.  A  big  clus- 
ter of  luscious  fashion  grapes — outburbank- 
ing  Burbank — turquoise  and  gold  leaves. 


3. 


4. 


Your     necklace — two     strands 
gether  with  sparkling  circles. 


-linked     to- 


And  I  don't  pass  up  your  hair.  You've 
pushed  it  back  to  show  your  ears.  It's  long 
enough  in  the  back  to  cover  the  nape  of 
your  pretty  neck — and  ringleted  so  it  can 
peak  out  from  under  any  hat  you  might  wear. 


¥& 

(taiEfc 

Ehp 

1 

m 

P 

1   Like    fashion    olars 

to  cJlluv  1 1,',,  Q0aS  at  lluj.t (Don 'l   Qjou  ? 


For  formal  times  I  like  this  gown 
of  Irene  Dunne's. 

Flowered  pussy-willow  satin  with 
a  good,  zippy  color  contrast  that 
you  find  in  many  new  dresses.  Brown 
and  tomato-juice  red.  Doesn't  sound 
so  good,  but  it  is. 

Notice  the  way  the  gipsy  sash  is 
twisted? 

Like  it?  Good!  You've  got  good 
fashion  judgment — We  will  call  that 
a  point  for  you,  too! 


Okay  for  Kay  Johnson  with  this 
"Sunday  night"  frock. 

Sunday?  Yes,  or  any  other  night 
when  the  party  is  informal  and  you 
want  your  dress  ankle  length. 

See  the  skirt — especially  the  full 
flounce  tucked  in  to  make  a  yoke. 
It's  a  dandy  modern  adaptation  of 
Empress  Eugenie's  dress  but  with- 
out Eugenie's  hoops. 

The  ruffle  around  the  shoulders  is 
another  fine  fashion  point. 


Do  you  like  the  Spanish  of  Mary 
Brian? 

Let's  give  her  one  point  for  black 
lace.  And  another  fashion  point  for 
the  peplum  on  her  skirt. 

And  a  third  for  the  bertha  that 
covers  her  shoulders.  And,  for  a 
fourth,  notice  that  her  dress  comes 
to  the  floor,  where  it  should  be.  A 
fifth — notice  her  pearls  belong  with 
this  black  gown. 

We  don't  give  the  fan  much. 


I  Ch 


eer 


Th 


toaster  •••  Like    L 


O     Hals 

9 


m   • 


To  Dorothy  Mackaill's  hat — she  wears  it  in 
"Their  Mad  Moment" — I'll  give  four  fashion 
checks: 

First,  it's  little. 

Second,  it's  a  wrapped  turban. 

Third,  it's  made  of  her  coat  material. 

Fourth,  it  has  a  good  feminine  twist  over  her 
ear. 

And  please  notice,  too,  the  fashion  points  of 
Warner  Baxter.     We  boys  have  our  fashions,  too. 

First,  his  hat's  a  beret — which  more  of  the  gay 
boys  are  wearing. 

Second,  his  double-breasted  suit  coat  is  good 
for  such  husky,  squeezing  shoulders. 

Third,  his  scarf,  however,  is  a  little  that  way. 
And  his  haircut!  Hot,  perhaps.  But  not  so  hot 
in  fashion. 


This  lovely  Greta  Garbo's 
skull  cap  covers  one  of  the 
loveliest  skulls  in  the  world. 


Not  so  new — but  good. 
And  certainly  good  for 
Garbo— and  for  thousands  of 
other    perfect   profiles. 

Hard  to  wear — but  if  you 
can  wear  it — fine.  Greta 
wears  it  in  "Inspiration." 


I'm  for  this  little  hat  of 
Virginia  Cherrill's.  First, 
because  it's  a  bicorne — mean- 
ing it  has  two  corners.  You'll 
see  thousands  of  these. 

Another  fashion  point — 
it's  a  twisted  turban  that  will 
be  good  all  Spring.  And 
you're  wearing  it  right,  Vir- 
ginia— way  back  on  your 
head — where  it  belongs. 


I'm  certainly  for  this  good 
straw  of  Ona  Munson's.  For 
no  less  than  five  fashion 
reasons: 

Its  shallow  crown  is  low 
and  flat — 

Its  brim  is  cut  off  in  the 
front  so  it  can  set  back  on  her 
head   away   from    her   face — 

Its  straw  and- wool  braid  is 
easy  on  her  head — and 

White — worn  with  a  dark- 
colored  dress. 


I  like  this  new  Chinese 
mandarin  hat  with  its  brim 
turned  up  like  a  cuff. 

Notice  how  high  up  it  sits 
on  Claudette  Colbert's  head. 

A  certain  someone  I  know 
— in  fact,  a  lot  of  someones 
who  are  sure  they're  Claud- 
ette 's  twins  —  would,  like 
Claudette,  look  fine  in  this 
hat. 


It  isn't  the  jolly 
"Fatty"  Arbuckle  of 
his  great  Paramount 
starring  days  of  a 
decade  ago.  There's 
somberness  in  that 
big  moon  face  that 
made  millions  laugh 
in  the  good  old  days 


list 


I 


Under  another  name, 
Roscoe  Arbuckb  'li- 
rects  short  comedies 
for  a  Holly  v.  oo«J  pro- 
ducer. And  still  h<- 
cherishesa  faint  hope 
that  some  day  he  can 
stageacome-back  be- 
fore his  own  camera 


Work" 


Illusions  lost  and  hope 
fading,  Roscoe  Arbuckle 
just  jogs  along  directing 
other  people's  comedies 


THIS     is     a     story     about 
;l;ittv"   Arbuckle.     And 
it's  not  a  "sob  story." 
It's  not  a  sob  story  for 

the  simple  reason  that  Arbuckle 
isn't  sobbing.  There's  nothing  to 
sob  about! 

But  neither  is  it  the  •■head-high- 
facing  life-courageously"  sort  of 
thins-  For  Roscoe  Arbuckle 
wouldn't  fit  into  that  classifica- 
tion any   more  than   the   whiner 

category.  "Fatty's"  not  righting  very  hard  any  more.  A 
decade  of  battle  has  knocked  most  of  the  fight  out  of  him. 
But  he  isn't  bawling,  either. 

This  story,  in  short,  is  merely  a  presentation  of  the  case  of 
'Tatty"  as  he  stands  today. 

It  was  nearly  ten  years  ago,  now,  that  headline  ink  was 
smeared  thick  and  ugly  across  the  gay-hued  Arbuckle  shield. 
The  jovial  clown  that  had  rolled  'em  in  the  aisles  with  his 
elephantine  antics  became  overnight  a  sinister  figure  whose 
name  might  not  even  be  mentioned  in  polite  company. 

Journalistic  sensationalism  had  its  customary  Roman 
holiday— and  the  fact  that  a  jury  acquitted  Roscoe  Arbuckle 
of  the  charges  against  him  made  no  difference  in  the  fact  that 
he  was  a  ruined  man. 

Well,  all  that's  an  old  story  by  this  time.  You've  read  it 
time  and  again,  and  you've  read  interminable  arguments  for 
and  against  Arbuckle.  You  know,  too,  that  with  his  friends  in 
movieland  solidly  behind  him,  "Tatty"  tried  to  fight  back  to 
the  place  he  had  lost. 

He  fought  strenuously.  He  made  speeches.  He  toured  the 
country,  in  personal  appearances  and  in  vaudeville.  He 
sought  backers  to  put  him  again  on  the  screen.  He  fought, 
courageously,  against  the  organized  campaign  to  keep  him 
off  the  screen— the  campaign  that  has  ever  been  waged  by  the 
extremists  to  prevent  him  from  coming  back. 

For  years,  his  name  and  the  news  of  his  fight  were  good  copy. 
But  trierv,  inevitably,  came  the  indiffer- 
ence   that    is    worse,   in    "Tatty's"  pro- 
fession, than  the  most  rabid  condemna-  r>  T  LP    /   /    ' 
tion.     "Fatty"  was  left  to  be  forgotten.          &  y       1    0   1)1       ML   I    I   I  S 


And  that  was  the  break  that 
did  for  him?  "Fatty"  stopped 
fighting,  then — and  whatever  he 
has  done  since,  to  tell  the  truth, 
has  been  half-hearted  at  i 

And  that  brings  us  to  today — 
when  "Fatty"  Arbuckle  isn't  even 
a  name  any  more!    Literally,  that 
is.    Because  Arbuckle,  smashed  at 
last  by  the  futility  of  ever  trying 
to  live  down  the  shadow  of  that 
name      in      headline      ink,      has 
changed  it.    Today  he  works  in  Hollywood,  but  not  under  t he- 
name   of    Roscoe   Arbuckle.      He   has   adopted   an   entirely 
different  name. 

That  new  name  has  been  printed,  here  and  there.  We  won't 
print  it,  because  to  do  so  would  mean  merely  another  hardship 
for  the  man.  Under  that  new  name,  he  has  achieved  a  certain 
measure  of  success — certainly  not  great,  but  enough  to  earn  a 
living— at  directing  talking  comedies.  To  divulge  the  name 
of  the  company  that  is  making  his  pictures  would  mean  only 
the  probability  of  unfair  prejudice  against  his  work.  And  that 
would  be  tragic — for  some  of  the  two-reelers  Arbuckle  is 
turning  out  are  superior  to  manv  feature  pictures!  He  knows 
his  stuff! 


TODAY  then,  ''Fatty"  Arbuckle.  the  hilarious  comedian,  is 
gone.  Instead,  there  is  a  big  fat  fellow  behind  a  director's 
desk  in  a  Hollywood  office,  the  door  of  which  bears  a  name 
that  doesn't  even  remotely  resemble  Roscoe  Arbuckle. 

There's  no  grin  on  his  face.  It's  almost  always  serious. 
There  are  lines  there  that  weren't  on  that  cherubically  asinine 
countenance  that  beamed  from  the  screen  in  the  old  "Fatty" 
comedies. 

He  works  hard.  When  he's  casting  his  comedies,  he  makes  a 
point  of  picking  the  names  of  old-timers  he  used  to  know .  He's 
particularly  happy  when  he  can  give  a  few  days'  work  to 
some  fellow  who's  had  the  breaks  against  him. 

He  doesn't  court  publicity.  Now  and 
then,  a  writer  or  an  editor  will  say: 
"What  can  we  do  for  you  to  help  you. 

Roscoe?"  [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  127  ] 


■Cs 


s 


ew  otares  at 


Not  content  with  the  rewards  of 
film  fame,  the  Ayres  boy  scans 
the  skies  and  seeks  the  lost 
chord   on   the  organ    key-board 


A  FEW  days  ago  Lew  (All  Quiet  on  the  Western 
Front)  Ayres  came  into  the  log-cabin  dining  room 
on  the  Universal  lot  carrying  a  mysterious  brass 
cylinder  under  his  arm.  If  the  strange  object  had 
been  a  crooning  baby,  he  couldn't  have  treated  it  with  more 
care.  He  placed  it  gently  on  the  table  during  the  meal,  but 
had  picked  it  up  and  placed  it  carefully  under  his  arm  before 
he  had  half  finished  with  his  dessert,  as  if  he  were  afraid  he 
might  walk  out  and  forget  it. 

As  he  was  leaving  the  dining  room,  a  friend  reached  out 
and  playfully  yanked  the  cylinder  from  under  Lew's  arm. 
A  condemned  man,  looking  for  the  first  time  upon  his  scaffold, 
couldn't  have  shown  more  anxiety  than  Lew  did  as  he  wheeled 
about  to  see  what  had  happened  to  his  precious  possession. 

But  the  friend  had  not  dropped  it,  so  Lew  said  a  cheer- 
less, "Oh,  hello  there,"  secured  the  brass  piece  under  his 
arm  again,  and  stalked  out  of  the  dining  room. 

Curiosity  got  the  better  of  me.     I  caught  up  with 
him  and  asked   what  in   the   world   he  was   toting 
about  with  so  much  ceremony. 

"Telescope,"  he  replied,  stretching  its  segments 
out  to  their  full  length.    "It's  a  70-power  one, 
like  they  use  on  board  ships!" 

No  further  questioning  necessary — I  had 
touched  upon  the  one  subject  which  has 
interested  him  ever  since  he  was  old 
enough  to  know  that  stars  are  more 
than  just  holes  in  a  big  blue  blanket. 


By  Potter  Bray  ton 


He  talked  to  me,  thrillingly,  for  a  half  hour,  about  strange 
and  wonderful  phenomena  of  which  he  had  read  or  had  seen 
with  his  own  eyes  in  the  firmament,  and  would  not  have 
stopped  then  if  he  hadn't  been  called  back  to  the  stage  to 
begin  his  afternoon's  work  before  the  cameras. 

Lew  could  match,  and  perhaps  put  to  shame,  the  most 
well-read  layman's  knowledge  of  astronomy.  Through  book 
and  lens  he  has  studied  every  heavenly  body  and  constellation 
until  they  have  become  his  personal  friends.  He  dreams  of 
some  day  perfecting  a  liquid  lens  powerful  enough  to  eliminate 
the  use  of  the  present  day  bulky  telescope.  "Just 
for  the  fun  of  it"  he  is  making  a  detailed  perspective 
map  of  the  moon. 

Subsequent   to   that   afternoon  on   the   Universal 
lot,   Captain  W.   M.   Blagden  of  the  British  Royal 
Engineers,  who  was  sent  to  Siam  by  the  British  govern- 
ment to  photograph  the  recent  eclipse  of  the  sun,  was  in- 
troduced to  Lew  Ayres  while  visiting  the  studios. 

Before  he  left  the  Universal  lot,  Captain  Blagden  remarked 
to  officials  that  he  couldn't  remember  having  ever  held  such 
a  learned  and  interesting  discussion  of  astronomy  with  a 
layman  as  he  had  enjoyed  that  day  with  Lew. 

EVERY  growing  boy  sets  his  heart  and  mind  on  one  day 
possessing  his  own  car,  or  gun,  or  movie  camera,  or  some  such 
costly  but  useful  "grown-up  toy."  Lew  has  always  wanted 
his  own  telescope.  He  found  this  one  in  a  junk  shop.  It 
afforded  him  so  much  pleasure  that  only  the  day  before  this 
was  written  he  invested  in  a  new  telescope — one  that  is  more 
powerful,  and  has  all  sorts  of  filters  and  fancy  doo-dads,  which 
Lew  says  facilitate  clear  vision  in  spite  of  haze,  water  glare, 
and  the  like. 

Director  Yin  Moore,  working  with  Lew  in  "Many  a  Slip," 
could  never  find  him  when  he  wished  to  film  a  sequence  at 
night.  Lew  had  a  date  with  the  moon,  and  Yin  knew  nothing 
short  of  dynamite  could  remove  the  young  astronomer  from 
his  post  at  the  telescope.  But  he  would  say  to  Ayres  the  next 
day: 

"That's  quite  a  racket  you  have,  Lew!  The  boys  tell  me 
they  saw  you  down  at  the  Plaza  again  last  night,  hauling 
in  the  dough  from  passersby  in  exchange  for  squints  at  the 
moon!" 

The  other  day,  at   Universal,  I   thought  I'd  drop  in  on 
Lew  and  see  what  new  aids  to  the  astronomer  he  had  pur- 
chased.    "He's  over  on  stage  ten,  playing  the  pipe  organ," 
they  told  me  in  the  office. 

Having  once,  myself,  been  a  movie 
organist,  here  was  my  meat!  If  I 
could  ever  get  silent  Lew  to  open  up. 
it  would  be  over  the  common  ground 
of  music!  I  tip-toed  onto  the  sound- 
proof stage. 

I  had  heard  that  Lew  could  play 
about  every  musical  instrument,  that 
he  used  to  play  guitar  and  banjo  in 
dance    [  please    turn  to  page  128  ] 


Lew  Ayres  and  his 
faithful  telescope 
study  the  Hollywood 
heavens.  Lew  says 
that,  contrary  to  cur- 
rent report,  the  con- 
stellations over  Film- 
town  do  not  actually 
spell  "Greta  Garbo." 
This  is  a   surprise 


66 


}  o  n  Know   Th  is  If  us  ba  n  (I, 
This   Wife,   the  Other  Man 


There  were  teas,  and  quiet 
dinners  for  two.  Then  the 
more  public  Cocoanut  Grove. 
And  all  Hollywood  whispered 
and  wondered 


ILENT 


D 


RAMA 


THE  powerful  gray  roadster  purred  through  the  velvety 
blackness  of  the  California  night. 
The  man  at  the  wheel  glanced  at  his  watch.     One 
o'clock.     His  eyes  Strayed  to  the  speedometer.     More 
speed,    if   he   hoped    to   reach  Hollywood   in    time.       He  had 
allowed   himself  two  hours  from   the    gun  club  to  his  home. 
The  big  car  gained  momentum. 

Carol  Thornley's  thoughts  kept  time  with  the  racing  motor. 
It  was  not  the  hrst  time  he  had  spent  silent,  ruminative  hours 
on  the  road.  But  tonight  was  the  night.  If  things  worked  out  — 
well,  there  would  be  no  more  lonely  rides  with  his  troubled 
thoughts  for  company. 

Was  he  still  in  love  with  Madge?  Was  it  just  habit?  Or  was 
it  the  knowledge  that  scandal  never  helped  the  salary  check  of  a 
motion  picture  director?  Perhaps  a  little  of  all  three.  And 
there  was  pride,  too,  the  pride  of  the  possessive  male. 

His  mind  wandered  back  over  the  years — back  to  the  long- 
ago  davs  when  he  had  gaily  thrown  down  the  gauntlet  to  the 
youthful  motion  picture  ogre.  The  thrill  of  directing  his  first 
two-reeler  .  .  . 

And  then  Madge  .  .  . 

How  he  had  loved  her!  Worshipped  her.  rather.  For  Madge 
I  pdyke  was  a  star  w  hen  Thornley.  a  young  nobody,  fell  under 
the  spell  of  her  loveliness.  And  one  bows  to  the  stars.  Mir- 
aculously, his  star  had  condescended  to  his  love.     Thev  had 


By 


Alfred    D .  \V  i  I  k  i  e 


been  happy  as  only  two  young  lovers  can  be  with  the  world  at 
their  feet. 

Success  had  come  to  him  —success  won  single-handed.  It  was 
not  as  Madge  Updyke's  husband  that  he  had  earned  his  place  in 
the  forefront  of  screen  directors;  it  was  as  Carol  Thornley, 
graduate  of  the  hard  school  of  experience  and  maker  of  suc- 
cessful celluloid  dramas. 

He  had  been  wi.-e  to  persuade  Madge  to  retire  from  the  screen 
at  the  height  of  her  glory.  Failing  stars  flicker  out  so  quickly. 
And  they  loved  the  non-professional  society  in  which  her 
charm  had  won  her  a  coveted  niche.  Pleasant  years  they  had 
been — until  Diego  Salerno  came  to  Hollywood  to  have  a  try  at 
the  throne  left  vacant  when  Death  summoned  Valentino. 

He  had  noticed  it  from  the  beginning,  Thornley  remembered 
although  he  had  given  no  sign.  Teas,  quiet  dinners  along  the 
California  Riviera  when  he  was  busy  at  the  studio.  Then  the 
more  public  Cocoanut  Grove  and  the  limelighted  first  nights 
that  Hollywood  loves.  Always  the  sleek  Salerno  hovering, 
smiling  and  debonair. 

67 


There  had  been  whispers — the  Gargantuan  undertones  that 
reverberate  with  the  force  of  muffled  cannon.  To  all  of  them 
'1  bornley  had  turned  a  deaf  ear  and  a  smiling  face.  Even  to 
his  intimates  who  had  dared  to  venture  a  word  of  warning  he 
bad  maintained  his  pose  of  bland  indifference. 

The  Boulevard,  Hollywood's  life  artery,  was  unanimous  in 
its  guess  that  Thornley  didn't  care — might  even  have  another 
interest  of  his  own! 

The  gray  roadster  swung  into  the  curving  avenues  of  film- 
dom's  smartest  residence  section.  A  block  from  his  home, 
Thornley  brought  the  car  to  a  halt  in  the  dense  shadow  of  an 
overhanging  palm. 

His  rubber-soled  golf  brogues  made  no  sound  as  he  turned 
into  his  own  drive  and  circled  the  house. 

There  it  was  —  Salerno's  many-hued  motor,  as  colorful 
as  its  owner,  parked  in  the  safe  obscurity  of  the  Thornley 
shrubbery. 

Involuntarily,  the  silent  man  glanced  at  the  shaded  light 
in  his  wife's  sitting  room. 

Within  him  something  ached  with  the  numb  pain  of  an  old 
wound.    He  shrugged  in  an  effort  to  silence  it. 

Drama  was  all  very  well  for  a  livelihood  but  it  should  have 
no  place  in  his  private  scheme  of  things. 

HIS  key  slipped  silently  into  the  lock  and  Thornley  stepped 
into  the  dimly  lighted  house.  No  sound  broke  the  early 
morning  stillness. 

As  though  he  had  rehearsed  it  many  times,  he  started  about 
his  work. 

From  the  dining  room  he  chose  the  sterling  plate  Madge 
prized  so  highly.  The  priceless,  tiny  French  clock  and  the 
Ming  vases  from  the  drawing  room  .  .  .  the  ivory  miniatures 
for  which  Del  Mora  had  offered  him  a  thousand  not  a  week 
ago  .  .  .  that  bit  of  cloisonne  .  .  .  the  Corot  in  its  chaste 
frame. 

Without  a  sound  he  carried  his  treasures  to  Salerno's  car. 


Careful  now  .  .  .  Noiselessly  he  deposited  them  in  the  rear 
compartment  and  covered  them  with  the  heavy  serape  Salerno 
affected  as  a  motor  robe.  The  door  of  the  car  closed  without 
a  click. 

At  the  wheel  of  his  own  car,  Thornley  relaxed.  His  cigar 
glowed  comfortingly  as  he  swung  the  wheel  toward  the 
shadowy  radiance  of  the  downtown  section.  The  most 
difficult  part  was  over. 

THE  desk  sergeant  at  the  Hollywood  police  station  greeted 
him  as  an  old  and  valued  acquaintance.  Even  the  sergeant 
was  not  above  adding  to  his  monthly  pay  envelope  by  doubling 
before  the  camera  in  off-duty  hours  or  aiding  in  the  handling 
of  studio  street  mobs. 

A  dozen  sentences  served  to  galvanize  the  officer  into  action: 
As  he  was  leaving  for  the  gun  club,  Thornley  had  discovered  a 
burglar  looting  his  home.  The  thief  was  still  there.  Mrs. 
Thornley  was  indisposed  and  he  preferred  to  have  the  man 
apprehended  quietly. 

Would  the  sergeant  detail  a  few  men  to  surround  the  place 
and  arrest  the  thief  as  he  emerged? 

It  might  be  necessary  to  disturb  Mrs.  Thornley?  If  it  was  un- 
avoidable .  .  .  He  had  seen  the  man  stowing  'he  loot  in  ? 
car  parked  at  the  rear  of  the  house.  The  sergeant  understood? 
Good! 

Oh  yes — one  thing  more:  Some  of  these  smart  burglars 
were  posing  as  friends  of  their  victims.  Of  course  the  sergeant 
wouldn't  be  fooled  by  that  old  one? 

Mrs.  Thornley  could  settle  all  doubt  .  .  .  By  the  way.  the 
police  might  as  well  take  the  credit  for  discovering  the  thief  at 
work  .  .  . 

The  crisp  new  bill  crackled  as  it  changed  hands. 

The  big  roadster  purred  away  into  the  night.  Thornley 
smiled  as  he  piloted  the  car  into  the  beach  road.  If  he  hurried 
he  might  be  in  the  blind  before  dawn  brought  the  first  flight  of 
ducks  overhead. 


■And  Who  Is  THIS  Girl? 


Surely  the  young  lady  on  the  left  is  Mrs.  John  Barrymore,  Dolores  Costello  that  was.  And  the  girl  on  the  right 
certainly  must  be  either  Constance  or  Joan  Bennett.  But  the  fact  is  that  both  girls  are  Marian  Marsh,  the  child 
still  in  her  'teens  who  has  been  chosen  to  play  Trilby  to  John  Barrymore's  Soengali  in  the  Warner  Brothers' 
talking  version  of  that  famous  Du  Maurier  story.  The  little  Marsh  miss  first  appeared  in  pictures  under  the 
name  of  "Marilyn  Morgan,"  and  was  seen  in  "Whoopee"  with  Eddie  Cantor.    Many  girls  were  tested  for  the 

coveted  Trilby  role,  but  little  Marian  won  out 


68 


Unbeatable  Betty 


By 

Michael 
1 1  roodward 


Here's  the  contagious 
Betty  Compson  smile 
that  has  lighted  up 
our  screens  for  years 
—  and  may  the  fuse 
never  blow  out! 


The  camera 
to  the   game 


a 


star 


M\Y  I  presenl  Miss 
Compson? — Betty 
Co  ni  pso  n  .  v  0  U 
know:  the  Radio 
Pictures'  star. 

Oh,  come  on  and  moot  her 
—  you'll  like  her  —  she's 
regular! 

She  kcepis  friends  as  well  as 
makes  'em.  And  it  doesn't 
matter  a  darned  bit  to  her 
either,  whether  they're  earn- 
ing fifteen  thousand  a  week, 
or  just  the  fifteen!     She's  like  that — used  t5  be  poor  herself. 

Why.  there  was  the  day,  back  when  she  was  banging  away 
at  the  gates  of  film  fame,  when  she  and  her  mother  hadn't  eaten 
for  three  days.  Hetty  was  Just  about  to  say  '"figs!"  at  the 
movie  racket,  when  a  vagrant  breeze  blew  a  bit  of  paper  against 
her  ankle.  She  kicked  it  away,  and  as  it  whirled  on,  recognized 
A  for  a  dollar  bill. 

Boy.  what  an  all-American  tackle  that  girl  made!  It  wasn't 
a  dollar  bill,  though.  It  was  a  ten.  Betty  and  mama  ate.  and 
that's  why  we've  got  a  blonde  film  star  instead  of  an  ex-extra. 

But.  I  was  telling  about  how  she  keeps  friends.  Why.  there's 
the  chap  who  comes  to  visit  her  every  now  and  then,  from  up 
north  in  California.  He's  the  son  of  the  people  for  whom 
Betty  used  to  work  as  nursemaid!  He  visits  her  quite  regu- 
larly. Oh,  no — nothing  like  that! — he  used  to  visit  her  even 
before  she  divorced  Jim  Cruze.  No,  no — this  chap's  not  a 
heavy  heart  interest  in  Betty's  life  now.  There's  young  Hugh 
Trevor,  you  know. 

Talking  about  Jim  Cruze — there  was  that  funny  thing  about 
their  divorce.  Oh.  the  divorce  itself  was  funny  enough.  They 
weren't  angry  with  each  other,  or  having  other  affairs.    Betty 


is  moved  close 

and   glittering 

Compson    girl — ten    years 

and    going    strong! 


simply  got  tire>l  of  tr\ 
get   her  sleep  while  Jin 
entertaining  l'riei 
Jim  was  alwa  ining 

friend!  got  a  di- 

vorce.     Betty   wanted  a  di- 
vorce, and  she  got  it. 

And  then  what-    \\h 
hubby  Jim  up  and  hired  her 
to  act  in  a  film  he  was  <: 
ing.    And  it  was  called 

t  What  She  Wanted." 
And  it  was  about  a  lady  who 
wanted  a  divorce,  and  got  it!    Tie  that! 

Anyway,  she's  got  her  own  place  now.  and  she  can  sleep  all 
she  wants  to.  She's  mighty  particular  about  that  — during 
production.  No  parties  while  she's  working.  When  she's  not 
— well,  she's  one  of  Hollywood's  best  hostesses. 

Lots  of  interesting  things  about  Betty.  Ik-re's  a  giggle. 
She  doesn't  play  the  piano  herself.  Vet  she  has  two  in  ht  r 
house!  One's  in  her  living  room.  And  the  other  is  in  her 
BEDroom  .  .  .  !  Maybe  it's  an  automatic:  I  never  found  out. 
Betty's  a  queer  contradiction  in  stubbornness.  It  seems  that 
her  mind  and  her  heart  get  all  tangled  up  sometir: 

HERE'S  an  instance.  Betty  will  not  pose  for  fashion  pictures 
in  any  but  her  own  clothes.  Virtually  every  star  in  filmdom 
will  occasionally  act  as  model  for  fashion  pictures,  wearing 
famous  designers'  models.  But  Betty  says  no— if  she  can't 
wear  the  things  she  owns,  she  won't  pose  in  anybody  t. 

But  one  day  a  young  fellow  asked  her  to  pose  in  a  fashion 
reel  he  was  working  for.     Betty  explained  she  didn't  do  it. 

"But  my  job  depends  on  it,"  the  fellow  explained.  Betty 
investigated,    found    he    was       [  please  turn  to  page  125  ] 

69 


Smarten  Up  Your  Gowns 


An  exquisite  jeweled  costume  set,  created  for  Claire 
Luce  and  worn  by  her  in  her  latest  picture,  "The 
Painted  Woman."  Diamonds  and  emeralds  are 
combined  in  the  earrings,  necklace  and  one  bracelet. 
The  upper  bracelet  is  entirely  of  diamonds,  and  the 
ring  is  a  square-cut  emerald 


The  slave  bracelet  becomes  a  stunning  affair 
when  its  width  is  increased  to  four  inches  and 
the  green-gold  links  are  bound  together  with 
squares  of  modern  design.  The  perfect  com- 
plement for  the  new  three-quarter  sleeves. 
Carole  Lombard  wears  it 


Just  a  cute  gadget  to  keep  girls 
spending  money,  but  so  useful  it's 
hard  to  resist.  Powder  and  rouge 
for  all  emergencies,  contained  in  a 
wrist  compact.  Dorothy  Jordan 
demonstrates  its  convenience 


Fay  Wray,  the  wife 
of  John  Monk  Saun- 
ders, the  writer,  says 
this  is  her  favorite 
jewelry  —  diamond 
engagement  ring 
and  chased  plati- 
num wedding  ring 


with    Smart    Jewelry 


These  are  the  gems 
a  ntl  novelty  piece  s 
that  the  girls  of 
Hollywood  iire  wearing 


A  la  Yankee  Doodle,  Carole  Lom- 
bard stuck  a  feather  in  her  dark 
felt  hat  and  then  called  it  chic. 
It's  a  jaunty  little  blue  feather, 
fastened  to  a  gold  pin 


Platinum,  diamond  and  topaz  set.  There's  a 
combination  that  makes  a  handsome  pair  of 
earrings  for  the  brunette  Estelle  Taylor.  Her 
hair  is  held  off  the  ears  in  the  newest  fashion 
with  small  diamond  and  topaz  pins 


When  Sue  Carol  became 
Mrs.  Nick  Stuart  he  placed 
a  plain,  narrow  band  of 
platinum  on  the  third  finger 
of  her  left  hand.  Inside  are 
the  names,  "Sue  and  Nick" 
and  these  words:  "I  prom- 
ise, sweetheart."  We  call 
that  a  fine  decoration 


No.  1 


No.  2 


No.  3 


They  Are  Hollywood's 


THEIR  names  are  never  featured  in  electrics  on  Broad- 
way— or  even  on  Main  Street. 
They  do  not  live  in  Beverly  Hills  mansions,  have 
their  own  private  swimming  pools  or  drive  Rolls- 
Royces.  Their  safe  deposit  boxes  hold  no  million-dollar  con- 
tracts, their  activities  rate  no  scareheads  in  newspaper  type. 
They  have  seen  a  hundred  stars  gleam  in  the  firmament  of 
filmdom,  dim  and  pass  into  oblivion. 

Troupers  all,  they  represent  a  total  of  nearly  three  hundred 
years  of  stage  and  screen  experience  and  have,  in  scores  of 
relatively  unimportant  parts,  impressed  themselves  indelibly 
upon  the  memory  of  two  generations  of  movie  fans.  For 
them,  the  hope  of  stardom  has  faded.  They  are  the  stars 
who  might  have  been,  Hollywood's  Best  Known  Unknowns! 

Try  again,  as  each  of  them  stands  up  to  take  a  bow,  and  recall 
to  you  some  of  the  roles  they  have  portrayed,  and  see  how 
many  of  them  you  can  identify  and  name. 

Number  One:  The  dean  of  Hollywood  character  actors. 
Thirty-two  years  on  Broadway  before  entering  pictures  in 
1907  as  an  actor  and  director!  You  will  remember  him  as 
valet  to  William  Powell  in  "Interference,"  as  the  bishop  in 
"The  Sacred  Flame,"  as  the  old  man  who  was  rejuvenated 
in  "Sweet  Kitty  Bellairs"  and  in  scores  of  other  pictures,  in- 
cluding "The  Magnificent  Flirt,"  "General  Crack,"  "Red  Hot 
Speed,"  "If  I  Were  King"  and  "Sea  Legs."  His  intimates 
call  him  "Daddy"  and  his  name  begins  with  an  "R." 


No.  7 


B 


J.  Eugene  Chrism  an 


Number  Two:  He  began  his  stage  career  as  a  carpenter. 
For  years  he  traveled  with  carnival  and  tent  shows  and  came 
to  Hollywood  in  1911  to  enter  pictures.  Do  you  recall  him  as 
Father  Joseph  in  "The  Three  Musketeers"  and  "The  Iron 
Mask"?  He  was  in  "The  Shepherd  of  the  Hills";  he  was  the 
cruel  and  cadaverous  executioner  of  "The  Bad  One."  More 
recently  you've  seen  him  with  Eddie  Cantor  in  "Whoopee." 
His  first  name,  just  to  give  you  a  hint,  is  "Lon"  and  his  last — 
just  ask  the  first  casting  director  you  meet. 

Number  Three:  The  head  of  the  class,  Oswald!  You're 
an  observing  little  chap  for  your  age.  for  it  is,  indeed,  the 
gin-guzzling  Mrs.  Micklcham  of  Gary  Cooper's  "Seven  Days' 
Leave"!  She  refuses  to  tell  how  many  years  she  played  be- 
hind the  footlights  before  going  in  pictures,  but  you  can't 
expect  a  girl  to  tell  everything. 

On  the  New  York  and  London  stage  she  was  famous  for  her 
portrayal  of  drunks  and  cooks  and  on  the  screen  she  has  been 
unable  to  escape  the  type  of  character  she  played  in  "Seven 
Days'  Leave"  and  "  Limehouse  Nights"  except  for  an  occasional 
assignment   to   play   a   lead,   as   in   "My 
Past."    You  saw  her  as  the  matron  of  the 
the   orphanage   in    "Scarlet    Pages,"    she 
helped  make  "Alias  French  Gertie,"  "His 
Bridal  Night,"  and  "Fifty  Million  French- 
men"  more  enjoyable  for  you,  and  you 
may  have  seen  her  in  John  Gilbert's  "Way 
for  a  Sailor." 

If  you  can't  think  of  the  name,  just 
remember  that  she  is  the  sister  of  a  well 
known  character  actor  whose  initials  are 
"L.  B." 

Number  Four:  Butlers  may  come  and 
butlers  go  (along  with  the  cook  and  second 
maid)  but  he  seemingly  goes  on  buttling 
forever.  When  m'  lord  or  m'  lady  reaches 
for  the  tassled  cord  by  the  portieres,  you 
can  bet  your  shirt  that  Number  Four  is 
about  to  make  an  entrance.  He  has 
buttled  his  way  through  several  dozen 
pictures,  including  "The  Boudoir  Dip- 
lomat," "A  Lady  Surrenders,"  and  "East 
Is  West."     Now  and  then  they  give  him 


: : 


No.  4 


No.  5 


No.  6 


Best  Known  Unknowns 


Their  faces  are  familiar 
to  millions.  You  have  seen 
and  applauded  their  work 
in  scores  of  pictures,  but  how 
many  of  them  can  you  name? 

The  answers  are  on  page  131 


a  chance  to  see  how  the  other  half  lives  by  casting  him  in 
such  parts  as  the  chancellor  in  "Du  Barry."  He  came  from 
the  English  stage  and  if  you  know  how  many  pictures  he  has 
buttled  in  since  reaching  Hollywood  in  1914,  you  know  more 
than  he  does. 

Number  Five:  For  the  simple  reason  that  no  other  player 
in  pictures  can  wear  a  badge  so  becomingly,  he  is  nearly 
■ways  seen  upholding  the  majesty  of  the 
law.  Who  will  ever  forget  Wallace,  the 
chief  guard  in  'The  Big  House,"  who 
doesn't  know  any  prayers  when  called 
forth  to  meet  the  hail  of  lead  from  the 
(•chine-gun  of  Butch,  the  killer!  Here 
again,  some  thirty -six  years  of  stage  and 
screen  experience  are  responsible  for  the 
always  splendid  performances  of  the  man 
whom  you  saw  as  the  Inspector  in  "The 
Hat  Whispers,"  as  the  Russian  Colonel  in 
"New  Moon,"  as  Major  Cargan  in  ''Seven 
Keys  to  Baldpate"  and  a  score  of  other 
pictures.  A  famous  manager  of  the  old 
Detroit  baseball  club  bore  the  same  last 
name. 


Number  Six:  May  I  present  Mrs.  T  - 
Broev,  hostess  of  the  big  garden  party  in 
'"Sally"?  When  the  cast  calls  for  a  grande 
dame,  no  casting  director  ever  hesitates. 
An  old  time  Broadway  favorite,  she  has 
been  peering  through  lorgnettes  at  picture 
audiences  since   1911.     Mrs.  Caraway  in 


"The  Cay  Nineties,"  M-  .  Davis  in  "Lawful  Larceny," 

>  v  in  "The  Last  of  Mrs.  Cheyney,"  she  has  moved  in 
Stately  majesty  through  dozens  of  similar  roles. 

Number  Seven:  It's  difficult  to  say  whether  you  will  best 
remember  him  as  Corporal  Sochi  in  "The  Case  of  Sergeant 
Grischa"  or  as  Noah  in  "Noah's  Ark"  or,  for  that  matter  in 
any  one  of  several  score  roles  which  have  distinguished  him 
since  he  first  became  a  player  for  the  old  Famous  Players  in 
1914.  If  you  saw  "Sorrel]  and  Son"  you'll  have  no  difficulty 
in  recognizing  him  as  Doctor  Orange  and  it  "Evangeline"  was 
on  your  list,  you  know  him  as  the  father  of  Miss  Del  Rio  in 
that  picture.  Soon  you'll  see  him  as  Adj.  Frederii  /  in  Brenon's 
''Beau  Ideal."  Back  in  '96  he  was  doing  Shakespearean 
repertoire. 

Number  Eight:  You  won't  recall  him  in  any  of  the  old 
silents,  for  at  that  time  he  was  in  vaudeville  but  you've  seen 
plenty  of  him  since  he  landed  in  Hollywood,  about  three 
years  ago.  As  Tony,  the  wop  gangster,  he  made  his  first 
screen  bow  in  "The  Carnation  Kid"  and  since  that  time  he's 
been  a  wop,  a  Greek,  a  gangster  or  a  night  club  owner  in  so 
many  pictures  that  we  only  have  room  for  a  few,  such  as 
Bing  in  "Framed."  Arnie  larch  in  "Little  Caesar."  Lorenzo  in 
"Brothers,"  the  wop  milkman  in  "Breakfast  in  Bed,"  Rinaldo 
in  "Numbered  Men"  and  Beefy,  the  gang  leader,  in  "Dark 
Streets.  '     Ho  can  menace  with  [  PLEASE  TOTLN  Tu  PAGE  102  J 


No.  9 


No.  10 


73 


arry  the  Kid 


A  clear  close-up  of 
Mr.  Tibbett,  who 
likes  unimportant 
people  and  sings 
because  it's  fun 


LARRY  TIBBETT  will  bellow 
into  song  at  the  slightest  prov- 
ocation— and  lots  of  times 
without  even  that! 

He  sings  in  the  barber  chair  or  bath, 
he  sings  while  bowling  along  at  seventy- 
three  miles  an  hour  in  his  automobile, 
he  sings  in  his  dressing  room  and  his 
swimming  pool,  he  sings  at  morning, 
noon  and  night. 

He  has  given  away  a  million  dollars 
worth  of  baritoning  for  every  thousand 
dollars'  worth  he's  sold.  But  he  doesn't 
give  a  toot  about  that.  You  see,  Tib 
sings  because  he  likes  it.  The  fact  that 
it's  making  him  rich  is  just  his  good 
luck.  He'd  sing  anyway,  and  it's  a 
swell  break  for  the  Tibbett  family  that 
papa  gets  paid  for  some  of  it. 

He's  not  the  usual  conception  of  an  opera  star.  There's 
nothing  uppish  or  over-dignified  about  him.  He's  as  human  as 
kids  shootin'  marbles,  and  he's  not  much  older.  He's  never 
grown  up,  thank  God. 

He  loves  to  lie  on  the  floor — at  home  or  in  his  dressing  room, 
or  in  a  friend's  house — and  cock  his  legs  up  on  a  chair  or  a 
table.  He'll  flop  that  mop  of  hair  loose,  and  then,  in  that 
comfortable  position,  let  loose  his  lungs  for  a  lusty  song  or  two. 

Divans  or  over-stuffed  chairs,  to  Tibbett,  aren't  things  to  sit 
on.  They're  things  to  lie  on  with  your  feet  hanging  over  the 
back,  like  a  gangling  thirteen-year-old  kid  likes  to  contort 
himself.    You  know. 

HE  likes  to  play  jokes  on  people,  too.  He  and  Cliff  Edwards 
and  Reg  Denny  and  Roland  Young  are  always  gagging  things 
on  each  other.  Cliff  has  a  dressing  room  one  side  of  Tibbett's; 
Denny  on  the  other.  When  Larry  starts  yodeling  in  his  room, 
Denny  and  Edwards  chorus  in  with  the  most  ungodly  series  of 
off-key  wails  that  were  ever  heard.  Sounds  like  a  Chinese 
anthem. 

Larry  loves  kids  and  will  walk  on  his  hands  on  the  set  to 
entertain  youngsters  when  they  are  around.  The  director 
sometimes  has  to  tell  him  to  stop  standing  on  his  head  and  do 
some  singing  for  the  picture.  Walking  on  his  hands  is  a  cinch 
for   Tibbett,  and  what  other  opera  star  could? 

Larry  keeps  himself  in  first-rate  condition.  You're  as  like  as 
not  to  sec  him  riding  around  the  M-G-M  lot  on  a  horse,  leaping 
fences,  and  yip-yip-yipping  like  a  cowboy.  He  was  a  cowboy 
once;  son  of  a  two-gun  sheriff  of  old  California,  you  know. 

He's  going  to  play  outfield  on  the  M-G-M  studio  baseball 
team  next  year,  too.  Imagine  that! — Larry  Tibbett — five- 
thousand-a-night  opera  singer  playing  outfield  on  a  ball  team 

74 


He's  as  little  like  a 
Metropolitan  Opera 
star  as  a  man  could 
be,  this  Tibbett  fel- 
low. He's  what  the 
studio  gang  calls 
"regular," and  that's 
the  highest  praise 
the  boys  can  give 


By  Howard  James 


with  a  lot  of  scene-shifters  and  mes- 
senger boysand  actorsand  unimportant 
things  like  that. 

He's  crazy  about  swimming,  and  does  it  like  a  porpoise.  He's 
as  liable  to  get  a  sudden  desire  to  swim  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  i 
and  if  he  does,  he  hops  out  to  the  swell  swimming  pool  back  of 
his  Beverly  Hills  house  and  plunges  in,  whether  it's  two  in  the 
morning  or  in  the  afternoon.  Swimming  is  the  first  thing  he 
does  after  getting  up  mornings.  Out  of  bed,  into  his  trunks  and  I 
into  the  pool,  shouting  songs  at  the  top  of  his  baritone  in  the 
meantime. 

Then  he  comes  out  dripping,  bats  the  medicine  ball  around  i 
for  a  while,  or  skips  rope  or  romps  in  some  other  undignified  and 
unopera-starrish  fashion  for  a  while.  Then  his  trainer  rubs  him 
down,  and  Larry  goes  about  the  serious  business  of  breakfast. 
He  loves  breakfast.  His  idea  of  a  perfect  breakfast  is  fruit  with 
cream,  bacon  and  eggs  and  lots  of  'em,  German  fried  potatoes 
in  quantity,  some  li'l  pig  sausages,  toast  and  milk.  He  doesn't 
go  much  for  coffee. 

Of  course,  that  menu  is  good  only  when  he's  not  singing. 
When  he's  due  to  sing  for  concert  or  screen,  he  eats  very  little — 
a  bit  of  fruit  for  breakfast,  and  that's  all.  He  makes  up  for  it 
after  he's  done  singing. 

AS  for  his  choice  foods,  he's  the  most  catholic  person  in  the 
world.  "He's  the  easiest  person  I've  ever  heard  of  to  cook 
for, "  says  his  wife,  Grace.    "  He  doesn't  dislike  anything.  " 

However,  there  are  a  few  things  he's  especially  fond  of — for 
one  thing,  tomato  juice.  He  loves  sweetbreads  sauted,  but 
likes  Irish  stew  just  as  well.     With  dumplings. 

Larry  loves  people.  He  gets  far  more  enjoyment  out  of  meet- 
ing plumbers  than  princes.  To  him,  "important "  people  aren't 
half  as  important  as  unimportant  ones.  When  his  friends  tell 
him  that  the  people  he  associates  with  are  a  detriment  to  his 
future,  he  tells  them  to  go  jump  [  please  turn  to  page  129]* 


.    Orleans,    a 
branch  •>/  ihtr  Uourbvn  htttut 


PHOTOPLAY    Mv.wim.   I'M-    Mak.ii,    I       I  J»C 


AMERICA'S     YOUNGEST      DUCHESS... 

HER     HIGHNESS     THE     DUCHESSE    DE    NEMOURS 


This  chic  young  Duchesse  terms  frocks  h\  Worth  and  diamonds 
by  Cartier.  Her  dachshund." Valdy,"  {left)  is  hrr  inseparable  p<-t. 
(Belou)    Pond's  four  preparations  keep  her  fair  skin    exquisite. 


oblesse  oblige!"  Bays  the  Duchesse  de  Nemours.  '"In  Europe,  women  of  title  must  fulfil 
their  duty  of  being  always  lovely  .  . .  They  guard  their  beauty  as  they  guard  their  ancestral  jewels  and  prize  a  flower-like 
complexion  as  an  essential  hallmark,  of  race  and  breeding  . .  .  So^no  wonder  I  am  grateful  for  my  faithful  use  of  Pond's!" 


Enchantingly  blonde  and  beautiful,  with  ex- 
qui-itf  fair  skin,  the  Duchesse  de  Nemours  is 
the  former  Miss  Marguerite  Watson,  of  an  aris- 
tocratic \  irginia  family.  She  warn  a  favorite  in 
Washington  and  Newport  society  before  the 
loyal  romance  of  her  marriage  to  a  scion  of 
the  house  of  Bourbon-Orleans. 

u Women  of  title  must  be  always  lovely." 
Wherever  this  young  Duchesse  goes,  Pond's 
tends  her  fragile  transparent  skin,  just  as  when 
she  was  a  girl  at  home. 

"The  Cold  Cream  is  wonderful."  she  says, 
""and  the  I  the  best  way  to  remove 

the  cream  1  ever  found  .  .  .  The  Skin  Freshener 
is  delightful  to  invigorate  and  the  Vanishing 
Cream  is  exquisi 

Think  how  significant  it  is  that  women  of 
wealth  and  title  choose  Pond's  in  preference 
to  all  other  beauty  preparations.  Cost  is  a  mat- 
ter of  complete  indifference  to  these  women. 
Quality  is  everything.  For  in  their  prominent 
social  position  a  beautifully-groomed  complex- 


ion is  the  first  requisite.  They  choose  Pond's 
because   these  four  famous   preparations  are 
the  purest  and  finest  obtainable  despite  their 
democratic  simplicity 
anil  modest  price. 

Follow  the  lour  steps 
of  Pond's  Method  to 
keep  your  own  >km 
radiantly  clear  and 
fresh  : 

FIRST— during  the 
day,  for  thorough 
cleansing,  apply 
Pond's  Cold  Cream 
over  face  and  neck 
several  times,  always 
after  exposure...  Pat  in 
with  upward,  outward 
strokes,  waiting  to  let 
the  fine  oils  sink  deep 
into  the  pores. and  float 
the  dirt  to  the  surface. 


SECOND  —  wipe  away  all  cream  and  dirt  with 
Pond's  Tissues,  soft,  ample,  super-ahsorbent. 
Peach  color  and  white. 

THIRD— pat  cleansed  skin 
with  Pond's  Skin  Fre>henerto 
banish  oiliness,  tone  and  firm. 

LAST — smooth  on  Pond's 
Vanishing  Cream  for  powder 
base,  protection,  exquisite  fin- 
ish. Use  it  not  only  on  tin  I 
but  wherever  you  powder... 
arm*,  shoulders,  neck.  Mar- 
\elou-ly  effective  to  keep  your 
hands  soft  and  white.  At  bed. 
time:  Cleanse  with  Cold 
Cream,  remove  with  Tisi 
• 
lunc  in  on  Pond's  After- 
noon Tea  every  Tuesday  at 
.)  P.  M.  E.  S.  T.  Leo  Reismnn's 
Orchestra.  Leading  Society 
JTomen.  .V.  B.  C  RedyetuorL 


Send  10c  for  Pond's  Four  Preparations 

POND'S  EXTRACT  COMPANY.  Dcpt.  r>                    .                  in  Hudson  St..  New  York 
, 5trwt . 


CitT- 




Coerricbt.  1931.  food 'a  Extract 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  rde»*e  mention  rilOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


76 


TL 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


...it  sh 


e  years  can  make 


e 


Learn  the 
Complexion  Secret 
<)  out  of  10  lovely 
screen  stars  know 


-L\|o  ONE  measures  Youth  by 
birthdays  any  more!"  says  William 
Powell,  Paramount  star  of  "For  the 
Defense." 

"Nowadays  a  man  doesn't  even 
try  to  guess  a  woman's  age.  Women 
know  so  marvelously  how  to  KEEP 
their  fresh,  young  charm  that  is  so 
irresistible. 

"Feminine  stars  of  the  screen  and 
stage,  especially,  seem  to  know  the 

secret!"  *     •      * 

Indeed  they  do,  for  they  seem  always 
young,  charming,  magnetic—  you 
can't  believe  they  ever  have  birth- 
days. What  is  their  secret? 

"We  guard  complexion  beauty 
above  all  else,"  the  lovely  actresses 
will  tell  you.  "A  skin  aglow  with  the 
fascinating  freshness  of  youth  is  al- 
ways alluring." 

Important  actresses  in  Hollywood 


— on  Broadway — in  Europe— use  Lux 
Toilet  Soap.  Regularly!  That  is  why 
it  is  found  in  theatre  dressing  rooms 
everywhere— is  the  official  soap  in 
all  the  great  film  studios. 

Actually  605  of  the  613  important 
Hollywood  actresses  are  devoted  to 
fragrant  Lux  Toilet  Soap, 


Of  the  countless  stars  who  use  this 
very  white  soap,  some  have  the  skin 
inclined  to  dryness;  some  the  skin 
that  tends  to  be  oily;  some  the  in- 
between  skin. 

Whatever  your  individual  type  may 
be,  you,  too,  will  find  in  Lux  Toilet 
Soap  the  perfect  complexion  care! 


The  caress  of  dollar- a-cake 

French  soap 


Lux 


Every  advertisement  In  TOOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE  is  euaranteed. 


PhOTOP]  «    M a..\/im     i  ..I     M  \k<  ii.l       I 


anyg 


irl 


more  alluring 


lluri 


77 


says  William  Powell 


ancy 


Paramount  star,  says  of  fragrant,  white 
Lux  Toilet  Soap:  "Talking  and  techni- 
color pictures  require  so  many  close-ups 
and  close-ups  demand  flawless  skin.  For 
the  very  smooth  skin  a  star  must  have,  I 
find  Lux  Toilet  Soap  is  wonderful." 


Paramount  star,  says:  "There's  one  thing 
I've  found  that  stands  out  above  all  others 
in  making  a  girl  really  alluring  .  .  .  it's 
lovely  skin.  Every  girl  can  keep  her  skin  as 
beautifully  smooth  as  we  screea  stars  do 
—  by  using  Lux  Toilet  Soap." 


Featured  player,  «•.!>  K  "To  keep  the  appeal 
of  Youth,  exquisite  skin  is  essential.  On 
the  screen  and  stage  we  must  always  give 
especial  attention  to  the  condition  of  our 
skin.  I  find  Lux  Toilet  Soap  an  invaluable 
help  in  keeping  mine  smooth." 


Toilet  Soap. .IO* 


WVkii  rou  write  to  tdTertisers  rle»5*  mention  mOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


Picture  Producer — "Report  at  my  office!     You're 
just  the  type  we're  looking  for!" 


The  Good  Old  Newsreel! 

We  just  cnn't  keep  abreast  of  things 
Unless  our  weekly  newsreel  brings 

Witless  farmers  pitching  hay, 
Herds  of  'itllc  lambs  at  play — 

Politicians  spouting  twaddle, 
Flocks  of  honking  geese  a'waddlc — 

Knock-kneed  beauties  on  the  beaches, 
Smirking  pippins  picking  peaches — 

Prohibition  squawks  and  jeers, 
Cubans  sampling  wines  and  beers — - 

Scandihoovians  on  skis, 

Skating  champs  with  knobby  knees — 

Nuts  who  dive  in  icy  pools. 
And  fifty  thousand  other  fools! 

Ah,  our  world's  a  wondrous  placet 
Croat  events  each  other  chaseJ 

Toast  the  gallant  news  reel  men 
Who  shoot  at  eagles,  bag  a  hen! 


A  Snicker  or  Nothing 

They  say  Greta  Garbo  is  fond  of  playing  Marlene  Dietrich's 
records  on  her  phonograph.  Well,  if  Marlene  has  a  phonograph, 
she  can  play  one  of  Greta's  records.  "Anna  Christie"  took  in 
$109,000  in  one  week  at  the  Capitol  Theater,  New  York.  Try 
that  on  your  old  orthophonic,  baby!  .  .  .  Local  gossip  note — 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  Vallee  of  Westbrook,  Me.,  have  closed 
up  the  old  home  and  are  spending  the  winter  in  New  York  with 
their  son,  Rudolph.  Mrs.  Vallee  is  putting  in  her  time  crochet- 
ing covers  for  the  boy's  famous  collection  of  megaphones.  .  .  . 


Aeeli 


ing 


Around 

with 

Leonard 

Hall 


Variety  spots  this  sign  on  the  cash  register  of  a  Hollywood 
haberdashery — "The  Man  Nobody  Owes."  .  .  .  Ziegfeld  claims 
he  has  signed  Will  Rogers  for  a  new  "  Follies,"  whereas  I  under- 
stood the  old  Wrigley-wrinkler  was  exclusively  a  Fox  folly.  Or 
is  Ziegfeld  an  old  fox?  I'm  all  confused.  .  .  .  Cynical  note, 
or  the  fiendish  price  we  movie  stars  pay  for  bad  publicity. 
Clara  Bow  has  just  dug  down  for  an  $18,000  Rolls,  and  is  buy- 
ing a  $300,000  home  in  the  hills  back  of  town.  For  an  equal 
amount  of  "good  publicity,"  she'd  be  trading  in  her  roller 
skates  for  a  bicycle,  and  be  demanding  a  new  hot-plate  from 
the  landlady.  ...  I  hear  Kay  Francis  is  crazy  for  a  new  power 
yacht.  And  now  Kenneth  MacKenna  is  to  be  the  skipper.  Ah 
there,  Kay!    And  ah  there,  Ken. 


Just  in  Passing 

What  picture  actresses  want,  insists  Mr.  Arthur  Paul  of 
New  York  in  Mr.  Sobol's  Broadway  column  in  the  New 
York  Graphic  (there's  credit  for  you!)  is  a  short  life  and  a 
marry  one. 


Getting  Personal 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  has  taken  up  its  options  on  Robert 
Montgomery  and  Dorothy  Jordan  (each  contract  is  for  a  year) 
but  has  dropped  Catherine  Moylan,  the  pretty  Ziegfeld  lass. 
.  .  .  Fox  has  bought  the  picture  rights  to  Vina  Delmar's  "Bad 
Girl,"  and  who  gets  the  lead?  .  .  .  Claire  Luce  and  Robert 
Ames  asked  and  got  their  release  as  Fox  contract  players. 
Ames  can  make  barrels  of  dough  as  a  free-lance,  and  Claire 
aims  to  go  around  the  world  with  her  millionaire  husband, 
Cliff  Smith.  .  .  .  Little  Betty  Bronson  has  been  around  New 
York  lately,  and  Betty  Blythe  has  turned  up  in  a  new  show. 
.  .  .  Maurice  Chevalier  got  $5,000  for  warbling  on  the  Camel 
hour  not  long  ago.  He'd  probably  walk  a  mile,  too  for  five 
grand.  .  .  .  Barbara  Bennett,  brunette  sister  of  the  blonde 
Joan  and  Connie,  has  been  dancing  at  her  husband's  swanky 
New  York  night  club.  He's  Morton  Downey,  tenor.  .  .  . 
Gilda  Gray,  ex-shaker,  says  she's  going  to  marry  a  Mr.  George 
Brent.  .  .  .  Among  those  mentioned  for  personal  appearances 
are  John  Gilbert,  Yivienne  Segal  and  Stuart  Erwin.  .  .  .  Ruth 
Chatterton  celebrated  a  birthday  the  day  before  Christmas. 
.  .  .  Phyllis  Haver  and  her  husband,  Billy  Seeman,  chartered 
a  special  car  and  took  a  big  party  to  Quebec  for  New  Year's 
Week.  .  .  .  Mary  Astor  has  lost  five  pounds  in  the  last  couple 
of  months.  Now,  not  too  [much,  Man-!  The  desert's  full  of 
people  who  lost  pounds!  .  .  .  Freddie  March  and  Florence 
Eldridge  have  a  beautiful  beach  house  at  Laguna  they've  never 
lived  in.  .  .  .  George  Bancroft  wants  SI 50,000  a  picture  under 
a  new  Paramount  contract.  Paramount  says  less  than 
S  100,000,  or  no  sale.  .  .  .  "Fires  of  Youth,"  picture  Monta 
Bell  is  making  at  Universal,  is  his  old  "  Man,  Woman  and  Sin," 
which  he  made  silent  for  Metro  with  Jack  Gilbert  and  the  late 
Jeanne  Eagels. 


Photoplay   m  igazini    i  os  M  \k«  h.  i     1 


Dr.  Hardee  Chambliss, 


79 


Ph.D. |    Johns    Hopkins    I    illtrfMl) 


finds  that  Colgate's 
cleans  teeth  best 


A  TOOTHPASTE,  Dr.  Chambliss 
knows,  should  clean  the  teeth  thor- 
ouijlily. 

Your  own  dentist  will  confirm  this— 
askhim.  He  will  tell  you  that  cleanliness 

is  the  best  possible  safeguard  against 
taJ  troubles. 

Therefore,  when  Dr.  Chambliss. 
world-renowned  scientist,  undertook  to 
find  out  which  toothpaste  is  best,  he 
naturally  compared  the  different 
brands  on  the  only  sensible  basis— 

cleansing  power. 

He  carefully  analyzed  the  leading 

brands   of   America  — and    he    found 
that  Colgate's  has  "greater  cleansing 

ability"  than  all  the  others. 

Why? 

Let  l>r.  Chambliss  answer:  "I  find 
Colgate's  not  only  cleans  the  surfaces 
safely,  but  because  of  its  penetrating 
foam  it  has  a  greater  ability  than  the 
others  to  pet  down  into  tiny  crevices 
and  fissures  of  the  teeth,  flooding  away 
decaying  food  particles. 

"Colgate's  fulfills  the  one  function 
of  a  toothpaste— to  cleanse  teeth  thor- 
oughly." 

Agreeing  with  Dr.  Chambliss  are  a 
group  of  eminent  scientists  who  have 
been  retained  to  make  analytical  tests 
of  toothpastes  and  render  their  expert 
opinions.  Among  these  are  such  men 
as  Jerome  Alexander,  B.S.,  M.Sc,  and 
Dr.  Allen  Kogers,  Ph.D.,  University  of 
Pennsylvania.  They  state  publicly  that 
Colgate's  is  a  superior  cleanser. 


The  price  is  important  —  but  the 
quality,  not  the  price,  has  held 
Collate  leadership  (or  thirty  year*. 


Dr.  Chambliss  says: 

"I  hn\e  tested  and  compared 
toothpaste!  with  reference  to 
their  cleansing  qualities.  1  find 
Colgate's  not  only  cleans  the 
surfaces  safely,  but  also  be- 
c;mse  of  iis  \  cry  penetrating 
foum  it  has  greater  ability  than 
other  dentilrices  to  get  down 
into  tiny  cre\  ices  and  fissures 
of  the  teeth,  Hooding  away  de- 
caying food  particles.  Other 
dentifrices,  because  they  are 
sluggish,  lack  this  power. 

"Colgate's  fulfills  the  one  func- 
tion of  ■  toothpaste — to  cleanse 
the  teeth  thoroughly." 


q|**> 


d^ 


DR.  HARDBBCHAMBL1SS, 

Dean  of  School  of  Sciences, 
Catholic  University  of  America, 
Washington,  D.  C;  noted 
internationally  as  a  scientist; 
member  of  the  American  Chem- 
ical Society;  American  Insti- 
tute of  Chemical  Engineers; 
Society  Chemical  Industry  of 
Kngland ;  Chemistry  Society 
of  London,  and  other  leading 
associations. 


PR  PPT  COLGATK.  Dept.M  10C9P.O.B 
J.    I\LL  Grand  Central   Post  Office.   N.  Y.  C,t*. 
Please  send  me  a  free  tube  of  Colgate's  Ribbon  Dental 
Cream,    with     booklet    "How    to     Keep     Teetb    and 
Mouth  Healths  ." 

Samt 

Addrnt 


WTien  you  write  to  adTerOsers  lUist  mention  rilOTOFLAT  .MAGAZINE. 


Tl  ST  a  bunch  of  kiddies  spending  a  tranquil  story 
hour  at  a  tin-can  tourist  camp.  Oh  yes?  Un- 
fortunately for  the  kiddies'  peace,  it's  all  on  the 
set  where  they  are  shooting  a  scene  for  "Children 
of  Dreams,"  a  new  Warner  musical.  The  place  is 
filled  with  a  huge  orchestra,  scads  of  bosses  and  a 
lot  of  interested  parents.  Just  a  quiet  studio  day! 
SO 


A  Quiet  Day 

in  the  Country/ 


THANKS  TO  .  ♦ ♦ 


These 
fastidious 

PEOPLE 


HOW  natural  tor  these 
charming  people. ..well-groomed  and 
fastidious  in  all  things... to  have  dis- 
covered Spud.  Because  in  Spud  they 
found  not  only  a  cigarette  of  full 
tobacco  fragrance . . .  hut  also  a  cigarette 
which  brings  with  it  the  delightful 
assurance  of  their  being  continually 
"mouth-happy."  Thus,  these  fastidi- 
ous people  discovered  the  great  new 
freedom  in  old-fashioned  tobacco 
enjoyment.  The  Axton-Fisher 
Tobacco  Co.,  Inc.,  Louisville,  Kv. 


SPUD 

MENTHOL-COOLED 

CIGARETTES 


20  FOR  20c(U.S.)...20  FOR  30e  (CANADA) 


THE    NEW    STYLES 
ARE  ALLURING— BUT 


Photographs  by  HI  t.rei.i. — K.  0.  M. 

The  new  styles  as  worn  by  Dorothy  Jordan-,  beautiful  Metro-Goldxyn-Mayer  player.  "To  be 
feminine  in  a  bathing  suit  wear  a  pastel  shaded  suit" — advises  Dorothy  Jordan.  For  an  in- 
formal "supper"-hour  engagement  Miss  Jordan  wears  a  modernized  pattern  in  chocolate- 
brown  chiffon  combined  with  a  silk  Chantilly  lace  yoke.  Miss  Jordan  wears  a  bouffant  type 
frock  for  evening  affairs,  combining  flesh-pink   satin   with  flounce  of  silk  Chantilly  lace. 


It's  no  secret  that  the  new  clothes  demand 
good  looks.  There's  no  secret  about  any- 
thing, in  fact!  We  stand  revealed  in  bathing 
suits;  in  trim  sports  togs  or  backless  gowns. 

Never  has  a  good  figure  meant  so  much. 
A  figure  slender — yet  softly  rounded. 

For  every  girl  who  possesses  such  a  figure, 
there  are  thousands  dieting  to  gain  the 
rounded  slimness  they'd  give  the  world  to 
have.  And  so  many  lose  the  very  beauty 
they  are  trying  to  achieve!  For  most  reduc- 
ing diets  lack  sufficient  roughage. 

The  result  is  improper  elimination. 
Poisons  clog  up  the  system  and  take  a 
terrible  toll  of  youth  and  beauty. 

This  Danger  can  be  avoided  by  includ- 
ing one  delightful  food  in  an  adequate 
reducing  diet:  Kellogg's  All-Bran,  a  non- 
fattening,  ready-to-eat  cereal.  All-Bran 
provides  the  roughage  necessary  to  keep 
the  system  regular. 

A  great  aid  to  beauty.  It  also  contains 
iron,  which  puts  color  in  cheeks  and  lips — 
and  helps  prevent  dietary  anemia. 

There  are  so  many  ways  to  enjoy  Kel- 
logg's All-Bran  that  you'll  welcome  the 
new  interest  it  brings  to  your  reducing 
menus.  Try  it  with  milk  as  a  ready-to-eat 
cereal.  Cook  it  into  omelets — or  bake  it 
in  bran  muffins  or  bran  bread. 

Be  sure  you  get  the  red-and-green  pack- 
age. Recommended  by  dietitians.  Made  by 
Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 


You  11  enjoy  Kellogg 's  Slumber  Music,  broadcast 
over  wjz  and  associated  stations  of  the  N.  B.  C. 
every  Sunday  evening  from  10.30  to  11.00  (East- 
ern standard  time). 


SEND    FOR     THE    BOOKLET 

"THE  MODERN  FIGURE" 

It  contains  helpful  and  sane  counsel  regarding 
the  modern  styles  and  how  to  achieve  the  figure 
best  suited  to  them.  You  will  find  the  suggested 
menus  and  table  of  foods  for  reducing  diets  in- 
valuable. It  is  free  upon  request. 

KELLOGG  COMPANY 

Dept.  A-j,  Battle  Creek,  Michigan 

Please  send  me  a  free  copy  of  your  booklet, 
"The  Modern  Figure." 


Name- 


Address. 


A  Luncheon  for  Eight 


If  you  want  two  tables  of 

amiable  bridge  players, 

here's  the  way  to  get  off 

to  a  flying  start 


A  PLEASANT  prologue  to  an  afternoon  of  bridge  is  an 
attractively  served  luncheon.  Let's  say  you  arc 
planning  to  have  two  tables  of  bridge,  and  you  want 
to  servo  something  a  little  different,  not  the  routine 

chicken  patty  or  crabmeat  salad  lunch. 

One  of  the  best  suggestions  I  can  make  is  a  recipe  that 
Claudia  Dell,  star  of  the  new  Warner  picture,  '"Fifty  Million 
Frenchmen,"  and  now  under  contract  to  Radio  Pictures, 
recently  gave  me. 

It's  one  of  her  favorites  and  she  has  planned  the  ingredients 
to  make  exactly  eight  helpings.  She  calls  it  her  "English 
Luncheon  Dish."  and  serves  it  piping  hot. 

These  are  the  ingredients: 

2  lbs.  fresh  tomatoes,  cubed  Melted  butter 

1  small  can  puree  of  tomatoes  Chili  powder 

2  small  green  peppers,  cut  fine  '  ■_>  lb.  American  cheese 
1  small  onion,  cut  tine  8  slices  white  bread 

8  slices  bacon 

To  make  a  sauce,  mix  the  cubed  tomatoes  and  the  puree 
with  the  peppers,  onion,  and  a  little  melted  butter,  adding 
just  a  dash  of  the  chili  powder.  Let  this  mixture  simmer  for 
ten  or  twelve  minutes. 

In  the  meantime,  put  cheese  in  thin  slices  or  small  pieces 
upon  the  bread,  and  toast  until  cheese  is  well  melted.  Place 
on  platter,  or  individual  plates,  pour  sauce  over  all,  and  lay 
a  crisp  slice  of  bacon  on  the  top  of  each  slice  of  toast.  Garnish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

LIGHT,  fluffy  muffins  can  be  served  with  this  dish.     Leila 
Hyams.   M-G-M  contract  player,  has  given  me  the  recipe 

for  the  delicious  ones  she  makes.     She  uses: 


1  cup  pastry  tlour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 


2  tablespoons  sugar 

'  _>  teaspoon  salt 


Mix  these  ingredients,  then  sift  thoroughly,  and  add  l't 
cups  graham  tlour,  and  '  ■_>  cup  dates,  cut  fine,  mixing  thoroughly 
with  dry  ingredients:   1  egg  and   1  cup  of  cream,  mixed   to- 


Photoplat  Magazine 

919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous  Cook 
Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the  stars. 
I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


Want  your  muffins  to  be  light  and  fluffy,  instead  of 
heavy  and  soggy?  Then,  Leila  Hyams  cautions  you 
to  handle  the  dough  gently  and  as  little  as  possible 


gether,  and  then  poured  into  dry  ingredients  and  immediately 
stirred.  Stir  very  lightly  and  only  long  enough  to  mix  wet 
and  dry  ingredients. 

Place  batter  in  the  pans,  handling  gently  to  avoid  toughening, 
and  bake  until  muffins  are  golden  brown — about  twenty 
minutes. 

You  can  serve  a  thin  soup  in  bouillon  cups  before  Miss 
Dell's  luncheon  dish  if  you  like,  but  it  isn't  necessary  to 
precede  such  a  hearts-  dish  with  either  appetizer  or  soup. 
If  you  want  a  dessert  that  is  more  tilling  than  the  customary 
ice  or  ice  cream,  here  is  the  recipe  that  Irene  Delroy,  Warner 
Pictures  plaver,  wrote  out  for  me.  It's  called  "Heavenl.- 
Hash!" 

Swell  1  cup  of  rice  in  1  pint  of  milk  from  which  the  cream, 
has  not  been  skimmed.  While  this  is  cooling,  make  a  custard 
of  1  quart  of  milk,  6  eggs,  ]  ■_>  cup  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Chop  1  cup  of  black  walnut  meats  coarsely.  Whip  rice, 
custard  and  walnut  meats  together  until  cool.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  and  top  with  a  cherry. 

IF  any  of  your  guests  are  dieting,  better  order  an  ice.  also, 
in  case  some  of  them  refuse  to  be  tempted  even  just  once 
by  such  a  pound-adding  dessert.  But  those  who  don't  have 
to  be  constantly  watchful  of  their  figures  will  tell  you  this 
dish  is  well  named. 

For  a  St.  Patrick's  Day  lunch  you  will  find  this  menu  can 
be  used  advantageously  by  planning  green  and  white  decora- 
tions and  substituting  a  pistachio  ice  cream,  which  is  green, 
and  small  green  and  white  iced  party  cakes  instead  of  the  rice 
custard. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 

S3 


A  bunch  of  the  boys  riding  down  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York,  on  a  bus.    Ah,  but  the  boys  and  bus  were  photo- 
graphed in  Hollywood  and  combined  with  the  Avenue  panorama  by  the  Dunning  Process! 


00/  It's  Only  Hollywood. 


/ 


How  the  famous 


Pro 


cess 


99 


we  re   in 
just  the 


THE  only  art  in  the  world 
that  is  almost  wholly 
dependent  on  invention 
has  just  received 
another  helping  hand  from  the 
morass  into  which  it  had 
stumbled,  this  time  from  a 
young  engineer. 

The  grave  problem  that 
movie  producers  have  been 
wrestling  with — almost  always 
unsuccessfully  —  from  the  ad- 
vent of  the  talking  picture  has  been  solved,  and  very  neatly,  too. 
It  is  an  open  secret  that  American-made,  foreign-language 
movies  have  been  nowhere  so  unsatisfactory  as  in  the  countries 
for  which  they  were  intended. 

As  an  example,  the  Hollywood  brand  of  Spanish  dialogue  ran 
full  tilt  into  the  unsuspected  fact  that  there  are  as  many  Spanish 
dialects  and  accents  as  there  are  whims  in  a  new  prima  donna's 
mentality.  Argentina  listened  to  conversation  that  the  movie- 
makers were  assured  was  pure  Castilian,  and  began  to  foam  at 
the  mouth. 

Chile,  Peru,  even  Spain  itself  found  objectionable  features  in 
the  West  Coast  replicas  of  their  language  and  customs,  while 
Mexico  simply  curled  up  and  howled.  Together,  the  com- 
plaints that  arose  from  all  nations  welded  into  an  anvil  chorus 
of  disapproval. 

And.  of  course,  the  local  brand  of  French,  German  and  Italian 
pictures  proved  almost  as  popular  as  the  Spanish.  Parisian 
French  is  one  thing,  and  provincial  French  is  quite  another — 
and  often  an  unintelligible  thing  to  the  boidevardier.  And  when 
it  came  to  the  different,  brands  of  German,  Italian  and  a  few 
other  assorted  tongues,  Hollywood  producers  began  to  discover 
that  their  foreign  talkie  business  appeared  on  the  ledgers  almost 
entirely  in  red  ink. 

It  was  a  beautiful  dream  in  the  beginning.  You  just  made 
your  ordinary  English  language  version;  then  moved  in  another 
set  of  actors  and  ran  through  the  thing  again.  Just  as  simple, 
and  almost  no  extra  cost  at  all!  And  then,  in  a  few  months,  the 
studio  comptrollers  and  auditors,  and  the  main  office  account- 
ants, began  to  point  out  the 


makes 
Borneo 
studio, 


'Dunning 
us  think 
when  it's 
after  all 


fog  of  disillusion  has  been 
hanging  over  the  industry. 
And  then  came  Carroll  and 
Dodge  Dunning  and  modestly 
offered  a  solution.  They  hap- 
pen to  be  father  and  son,  resi- 
dents of  Hollywood  and  the 
devisors  of  a  system  of  com- 
posite photography  that 
already  had  contributed  largely 
to  the  solution  of  production 
problems  in  the  big  studios. 
Briefly,  their  process  permils  a  motion  picture  taken  at  one 
place  and  time  to  be  combined  with  another  picture  taken  at 
an  entirely  different  place  and  time  so  perfectly  that  I've  yet  to 
find  a  photographic  expert  who  can  tell  it  from  one  in  which  all 
the  action  was  simultaneous. 

Without  going  too  deeply  into  the  technical  side  of  the  proc- 
ess, the  idea  is  based  on  color  photography. 

Most  of  us  have  heard  of  what  used  to  be  called  the  "double 
negative"  process  of  photography.  The  idea  was  merely  the 
use  of  masks  by  which  some  portion  of  the  plate  or  film  was 
covered  during  a  first  exposure,  the  covered  portion  to  be  later 
exposed  on  another  scene  or  figure. 

MOTION  pictures  have  used  the  idea  for  years,  and  seldom 
with  completely  satisfactory  results.  The  hero  of  the 
picture  playing  a  twin  role  and  shaking  hands  with  himself  was 
one  manifestation  that  seldom  fooled  anyone.  Generally  there 
were  lines,  white  edges,  halos  or  fringes  that  gave  the  trick 
away.  However,  it  was  the  best  that  could  be  done  until  the 
Dunnings  hove  in  sight. 

Now,  let  us  suppose  that  you're  a  producer  and  that  your 
story  requires  that  three  principal  characters  must  walk  up  the 
long  approach  between  the  water  pools  and  into  the  famous  Taj 
Mahal  in  India. 

Ordinarily,  if  that  were  a  necessity  in  the  story  you'd  send 
your  three  characters,  director  and  camera  crew  to  India, 
photograph  the  needed  action  and  bring  them  back  again  at  the 
expiration  of  some  weeks.    And,  not  improbably,  you'd  spend 

from  S25,000  upward  doing  it. 


By    Campbell    MacCulloch 


So,  for  quite  a  while,  a  dense 


[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE   122  ] 


ML 


PH0T0P1  w    M  tOAZINl     i  OB    M  UU  H,    1931 


65 


Leading  New  York  Beauty  Experts 

endorse  olive  and  palm  oU  method 

to  keep  that  schoolgirl  complexion 


Pierre,  I!"-.-  Laird,  Dumas,  Robert,  members  of 
world-group  of  more  than  20,000  beauty  experts 
who  declare  Palmolive  essentia]  to  complexion  care. 


"'Other  sixtps  may  irri- 
tate, "  says  Rose  Laird. 
"Palmolive  is  safe  and 
protective.  Its  vegetable 
oils  make  soap  and  water 
safe  for  all  skin,  Iww- 
ever  sensitive. " 


ROSE  LAIRD 

Whose  charming      __^ 

salon  looks  out  on  mr  ^^ 

the   spot    : 
Fifth.iven  ue  meets 
Centra!  Park. 


*k-i — --..c.. 


DUMAS 

Beauty  specialist 

of  thcSazoy-Pla~a, 

■ 

PatmoKv*  to 

kit  patrons. 


riF.RRE 
Of  the  fash: 
Plaza  district, says: 
"Don't  experiment 
zcith  beauty.     Cse 
Palmoli: 


ROBERT 

. 
nuc  salon  is  ex- 
tremely chic,  is 
another  A\  : 
beauty  specialist 
xiho  emphasizes  the 
value  of  Pai 


NEW  YORK,  our  most  sophisticated 
capital,  is  adopting  a  simple  rule  of 
complexion  care,  on  the  advice  of  its  well- 
known  specialists  in  beauty  culture. 

Pierre,  whose  57th  street  salon  invites 
only  the  elect.  Rose  Laird,  with  her  exclu- 
sive patronage  and  her  reputation  for  per- 
forming marvels.  It  is  such  specialists  who've 
taught  New  Yorkers  how  to  keep  that  school- 
girl complexion. 

Their  method  is  simple 

These  beauty  specialists — and  others  (in- 
deed, more  than  20,000,  when  one  includes 
the  thousands  all  over  Europe) — find  in 
Palmolive  Soap  a  skin  cleanser  and  beauty 
protection  that  just  can't  be  equaled. 

They  like,  first  of  all,  its  olive  oil  content. 
They  like  the  gentle  but  thorough  fashion 
in  which  it  cleanses — and  the  soft,  smooth, 
fresh  feeling  it  gives  the  skin.  "The  glam- 
ourous freshness  of  youth,"  they  call  this 
much-desired  texture. 


CjLgJd  ijnucJr  $civnd!xuA&   (5omJ^^xx?-rx/ 


Look  at  the  lovely  faces  one  sees  on  Fifth  Ave- 
nue, at  the  smartest  restaurants,  in  the  theatres 
of  New  York.    That  Schoolgirl  Complexion 
is,  indeed,  sweeping  New  York! 

Use  your  hands  to  make  a  fine  lather  of 
Palmolive  and  warm  water  (not  hot  water — 
that's  hard  on  the  skin).  Massage  this  in, 
then  rinse  it  off  and  you'll  find  you're  rinsing 
away  dirt  and  impurities  that  would  other- 
wise cause  serious  skin  blemishes.  Rinse 
first  with  warm  water,  then  with  cold.  Use 
this  treatment  as  a  base  for  make-up  .  .  .  and 
you'll  keep  that  schoolgirl  complexion. 

New  Yorkers  are  taking  this  advice  seri- 
ously. So  are  smart  Parisiennes.  So,  in  fact, 
are  millions  of  women  the  world  over. 
You'll  find  it  both  an  inexpensive  and  de- 
lightful treatment,  since  Palmolive,  as  you 
know,  costs  only  10  cents  the  bar. 


PALMOLIVE  RADIO  HOLR-Broadcast  every  Wedoes- 
day  night— from  9:30  to  10:30  p.  m..  Eastern  time;  8:30  to 
9:30  p.m..  Central  time;  7:30  to  8:30  p.m.. Mountain ume: 
6:30  to  7:30  p.  m..  Pa- 
cific Coast  time  — over 
WEAF  and  39  stations 
associated  with  The 
National  Broadcasting 
Company. 


1    \ 


to 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  mOTOPLAT  MAGAZIXE. 


Who    Has    The   Best   Figure   in    Hollywood?  —  And  Why 


CONTINUED  TROM  PACE  36 


Acce 

P 

ted 

Hos 

P 

ital    Chart   for  Women's 

Weight 

In  ord 

er  to  allow  for  the  different 

;  in  weight  in  different 

frames,  ten  per  cent  latitude  is  allowable  either  way. 

Height 

19 

20 

21-22               23-24 

25-29              30-34              35-39 

40-44             45-49 

yrs. 

yrs. 

yrs.                   yrs. 

yrs.                   yrs.                  yrs. 

yrs.                 yrs. 

4'  10" 

98 

102 

106             110 

113              116              119 

123              126 

4'  11" 

103 

107 

109              112 

115              118              121 

125              128 

5' 

109 

112 

113              115 

117              120              123 

127              130 

5'  1" 

113 

115 

116              118 

119              122              125 

129              132 

5' 2" 

116 

118 

119              120 

121             124             127 

132              135 

5' 3" 

120 

121 

122              123 

124             127             130 

135             138 

5' 4" 

123 

124 

125              126 

128              131              134 

138             141 

5' 5" 

126 

127 

128              129 

131              134              138 

142             145 

5' 6" 

129 

130 

131              133 

135              138              142 

146             149 

5' 7" 

131 

133 

135              137 

139              142              146 

150             153 

5' 8" 

135 

137 

139              141 

143             146             150 

154             157 

5' 9" 

138 

140 

142             145 

147             150             154 

158             161 

5'  10" 

141 

143 

145             148 

151             154             157 

161             164 

5'  11" 

145 

147 

149             151 

154             157             160 

164             168 

6' 

150 

152 

154             156 

158             161             163 

167             171 

Measure  and  weigh  yourself  in  your  shoes 

and  in  ordinary  out-door  clothing. 

Take  off  one 

inch  for  low  heeled  shoes 

and  two  inches  for  French  heels. 

Kay,  like  Constance  Bennett,  was  elimi- 
nated on  the  grounds  of  having  the  basis  of  a 
beautiful  figure  but  needing  more  weight. 
Ditto,  Joan  Crawford.  Alice  White  was  too 
short. 

Finally  the  honors  rested  between  Bebe  and 
Dolores. 

It  was  Bebe  to  whom  Mr.  Christy,  at  last, 
gave  first  place. 

"She  is  very  beautiful,"  he  said.  "There  is 
a  glowing  warmth  about  her.  And  besides  her 
lovely  symmetry,  she  carries  herself  well.  I 
must  mention  the  importance  of  a  woman's 
carriage,  for  this  will  overcome  a  bad  point  or, 
on  the  other  hand,  diminish  the  glories  of  per- 
fection." 

So  now  we  have  Marion  Davies,  Dolores  Del 
Rio  and  Bebe  Daniels  vying  for  the  honors. 
However,  only  two  of  the  four  judges  have 
spoken.    Wait  .  .  . 

A  FTF.R  talking  with  Karl  Christy  we  found 
**-Hattie  Carnegie,  dressmaker  to  the  flile  of 
society  and  the  theater,  in  her  fashionable  salon 
in  the  Fast  Forties. 

Miss  Carnegie  emphasized  what  Mr.  Christy 
had  said  about  poise  and  bearing. 

"The  girl  who  holds  her  head  well,  who 
stands  erect  and  moves  with  an  unaffected 
grace,  will  appear  to  have  a  better  figure  than 
the  more  perfectly  fashioned  girl  who  slouches," 
Miss  Carnegie  said. 

The  stars  who  most  interested  Miss  Carnegie 
in  no  instance  tallied  with  those  selected  by 
Earl  Carroll.  Joan  Crawford,  Kay  Francis 
and  Constance  Bennett  were  her  favorites. 

There  would  seem  to  be  something  in  what 
the  sculptor  said  about  the  slight  figure  being 
ideal  for  fashions. 

Kay  Francis  was  finally  eliminated  as  being 
a  little  too  tall  and  in  the  end,  Miss  Carnegie 
chose  Constance  Bennett. 

".Miss  Dennett  is  a  tritle  slim,  perhaps,"  she 

SG 


said,  "but,  to  my  mind,  she  more  than  atones 
for  this  by  her  carriage  and  by  the  way  her 
head  is  placed  on  her  gorgeous  shoulders. 

"When  Constance  Bennett  enters  a  room 
she  has  arrived." 

Miss  Carnegie  considers  a  fourteen-year-old 
size  with  a  sixteen-year-old  height  the  ideal 
figure. 

So  now  our  line-up  includes:  Marion  Davies, 
Dolores  Del  Rio,  Bebe  Daniels  and  Constance 
Bennett. 

It  looks  as  if  there  was  something  in  that  old 
rumor  about  men  preferring  a  more  curved 
figure  than  women  feel  ideal.  Doctor  A.  L. 
Goldwater,  one  of  Xew  York  City's  most  pro- 
fessionally respected  and  eminent  physicians, 
showed,  like  Farl  Carroll  and  Earl  Christy,  a 
marked  and  decided  preference  for  the  figure 
roundly  turned. 

"I  most  earnestly  hope,"  said  Doctor  Gold- 
water,  as  he  made  notes  on  the  measurements 
of  the  several  girls  to  whom  he  had  finally 
limited  his  choice,  "that  a  star  who  has  curves 
and  looks  as  a  woman  should  look  will  be 
granted  as  having  Hollywood's  best  figure.  I 
know  the  tremendous  influence  the  screen 
exerts  on  modern  life.  And  I  am  not  a  little 
dismayed  by  the  number  of  girls  and  young 
women  who  come  to  my  office  suffering  from 
anemia  and  low  blood  pressure.  Too  often 
their  ailments  can  be  traced  to  ill-advised  and 
strenuous  dieting,  engaged  in  without  a 
physician's  supervision  or  approval. 

"  There  are.  to  my  mind,"  Doctor  Goldwater 
continued,  "three  ideal  figures.  First,  there  is 
the  slim  and  somewhat  undeveloped  figure  of 
the  adolescent.  Then  there  is  the  young 
matron.  And  then  there  is  the  mother.  These 
figures  should  under  no  circumstances  be  the 
same.  The  mother  who  looks  like  her  adoles- 
cent daughter  is  not  beautiful.  On  the  con- 
trary. 

"Regardless  of  anything  else,  as  we  grow 


older  our  bones  contain  more  lime  salt  and  our 
skeleton  comes  to  weigh  more.  So  if  we  do  not 
show  an  increase  of  about  a  half  pound  a  year 
in  weight  it  means  we  actually  have  less  flesh 
on  our  frame. 

"  Naturally, "  explains  Doctor  Goldwater,  as 
he  eliminated  one  star  for  one  good  reason  and 
another  star  for  another  reason,  equally  good, 
"my  ideas  on  beauty  are  influenced  by  my  pro- 
fession. 

"T  HAVE  watched  women  playing  their  part 
■*■  in  the  life  drama  now  for  many  years.  I 
know  that  the  women  who  are  products  of  many 
generations  of  an  urban  population  are  slowly 
becoming  narrower  through  the  hips.  At  the 
same  time  babies  are  being  born  with  larger 
heads.  That  also  is  a  development  of  a  higher 
civilization.  Eventually  we  seem  to  face  an 
impasse.  And  right  now  many  women  are 
finding  it  increasingly  difficult  to  have  their 
babies. 

"Constantly  aware  of  this  state  of  affairs,  I 
have  come  to  appreciate  the  fundamental,  fit- 
ness of  the  sturdier,  more  squarely  built  women 
— Swedish,  Norwegian  and  Finnish  women  in 
particular.  These  women  come  from  countries 
largely  devoted  to  farming.  They  have  a 
breadth  of  frame. 

"  Evidently,  the  exercise  and  sports  in  which 
our  women  engage  do  not  produce  the  same 
results  as  farm  work,  even  in  a  lesser  degree. 

"No  wonder,  then,  all  these  things  con- 
sidered, I  find  a  very  definite  beauty  in  the 
fundamental  fitness  of  the  squarely  built 
Scandinavians." 

Doctor  Goldwater  was  not  attempting  to 
start  any  back-to-the-soil  movement.  He  was 
merely  trying  to  show  how  interrelated  he 
believes  a  woman's  beauty  to  be  with  her 
fundamental  destiny. 

It  would  seem,  however,  that  the  two  artists, 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  112  ] 


Pbotoplm  M\..\/im   roa  M\k<h.  1931 


87 


CjTargle  LISTERINE 

every  2  hours 

when  you  have  a 

COLD  or  SORE  THROAT 


In  your  mouth,  a  fierce  and  continuous  battle 
is  being  waged.  The  forces  of  Health  against 
those  of  Sickness.  Nature  against  Germs — 
dangerous  bacteria  that  lodge  and  multiply 
in  the  mouth  by  millions,  striving  to  cause 
illness. 

Surely  you  can  appreciate  the  necessity  of 
using,  every  day,  a  mouth  wash  fatal  to  germs, 
yet  harmless  to  tissue! 

Physicians  have  long  urged  a  night  and 
morning  gargle  with  full  strength  Listerine, 
the  safe  antiseptic  with  the  pleasant  taste. 
For  Listerine  kills  germs  of  all  types  in  15 
seconds.  No  faster  killing  time  has  ever  been 
accurately  recorded  by  science. 

Gargle  every  2  hours 

The  morning  and  night  gargle  is  deemed  suf- 
ficient, in  time  of  normal  health,  to  keep 
germs  under  control  and  maintain  a  cleanly 
condition  of  the  mouth. 

But  when  infection  is  actually  under  way, 


which  is  the  case  when  you  have  a  cold,  sore 
throat,  or  inflamed  condition  of  the  oral 
tract,  authorities  urge  that  the  gargle  be  re- 
peated every  two  hours. 

By  so  doing  you  give  the  body,  now  ac 
lower  resistance,  the  extra  attacking  force  it 
needs  to  combat  the  ever-multiplying  germs 
in  the  mouth. 

Month  germs  reduced  98% 

If  you  could  look  into  your  mouth  with  a 
microscope  before  and  after  gargling  with 
Listerine,  you  would  behold  a  remarkable 
transformation. 

Before  the  gargle  you  would  see  millions 
and  millions  of  germs,  alive,  wriggling,  dart- 
ing to  and  fro.  After,  you  would  see  the  same 
germs  dead  and  powerless  to  cause  harm. 

Repeated  tests,  following  the  technique 
employed  at  Great  Universities,  show  that 
full  strength  Listerine  actually  reduces  bacteria 
on  the  surfaces  of  the  mucous  membrane  98^. 


The   Truth   About 
Mouth  Washes 

203  mouth  washes,  eld  and  new,  ex- 
amined, analyzed,  and  tested  under 
standard  laboratory  methods. 

94  utterly  unable  to  kill  germs  in  five 
minutes,  and  hence  non-antiseptic.  107 
unable  to  kill  in  three  minutes.  143  un- 
able to  kill  in  one  minute.  Dozens  of 
them  without  the  slightest  deodorizing 
effect.  Others  poisonous,  or  harmful  to 
tissue. 

Contrast  their  sorry  performance  with 
that  of  Listerine,  the  safe,  non-poisonous, 
deodorizing  antiseptic,  which  kills  germs 
in  15  seconds  (fastest  killing  time  accu- 
rately recorded  by  science). 


Take  this  precaution 

At  the  first  symptom  of  trouble  in  the  oral 
cavity,  begin  gargling  with  Listerine  and  con- 
sult your  physician. 

Do  not  be  afraid  to  use  Listerine  undiluted. 
Only  in  this  way  can  you  get  the  full  benefit  of 
its  germicidal  action.  Remember  that  Listerine 
is  non-poisonous,  absolutely  safe  to  use,  and 
actually  healing  to  tissue.  Lambert  Pharmacal 
Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  L'   S.  A. 


SAFE 


NON-POISONOUS 


PLEASANT     TO     USE 


KILLS    GERMS     IN    15    SECONDS 
When  Ttm  write  to  advertisers  rl«s*  mention  PHOTOrLAT  MAGAZI>TE. 


Questions 
Answers 


The  masculine  half  of  "The 
Team  Who  Came  Back" 


WHAT  a  girl!  What  a  boy! 
What  a  team! 
Janet  Gaynor  and  Charles 
Farrell  top  the  questions  this  month. 
And  the  most  popular  question 
about  them  is:  "Are  these  two 
favorites  going  to  team  together  in 
pictures  forever  and  ever?"  At 
least,  that's  the  way  Muriel,  of 
Kansas  City,  Mo.,  puts  it. 

Well,  Muriel,  fomcr  is  a  long,  long 
time.  But  the  Answer  Man's  guess 
is  that  the  Fox  company  is  too  foxy 
to  separate  such  a  great  box-office 
combination.  Right  now  they  are 
planning  a  new  co-starring  film  for  Janet  and 
Charlie.  By  the  time  you  read  this,  produc- 
tion will  be  under  way. 

Audrey  J.,  Philadelphia:  Yes,  Janet 
Gaynor  is  a  Philadelphian  by  birth.  She  lived 
there  until  she  was  eight  years  old,  so  perhaps 
the  little  Gaynor  girl  with  whom  you  used  to 
play  tag  and  hopscotch  is  the  one  who  grew  up 
to  be  the  famous  Janet.  No,  she  didn't  grow 
up  far — just  an  even  5  feet.  She  weighs  the 
huge  sum  of  96  pounds,  has  curly  auburn  hair 
and  brown  eyes. 

Jim,  of  Janesville,  Wis.:  Charles  Farrell 
was  born  and  brought  up  on  old  Cape  Cod,  and 
got  his  higher  education  at  Boston  University. 
He  towers  fourteen  inches  over  Janet  Gaynor, 
weighs  170  pounds,  has  brown  hair  and  brown 
eyes.  Was  born  August  9,  1902,  and  is  four 
years  older  than  Janet.  Tf  you've  studied 
higher  mathematics  you  may  be  able  to  figure 
her  age. 

Frances  NT.,  St.  Lons,  Mo.:  Lew  Ayres 
says  he  never  played  a  banjo  in  Paul  White- 
man's  orchestra.  But  he  played  a  young 
German  soldier  with  such  genius  that  it  has 
brought  him  one  grand  part  after  another  ever 
since.  He  isn't  married  at  this  writing,  but 
they  do  say  he's  vurra.  vurra  fond  of  a  rising 
young  screen  actress  whose  first  name  is  Lola 
and  whose  last  name  also  has  four  letters  and 
also  begins  with  L.    Now,  guess. 

Miss  D.  B.,  Brooklyn".  X.  V.:  More 
questions  about  Lew!  He  began  his  acting 
career  on  December  28,  1909,  by  acting  per- 
fectly awful  as  soon  as  he  came  into  the  world. 
Why.  they  tell  me  he  cried  just  like  a  baby! 
Minneapolis  was  the  place.  He  is  5  feet.  11; 
weighs  155  pounds;  has  dark  brown  hair  and 
blue  eyes. 

Miss  B.  W..  Ceoarbxtsst,  L.  I.:  "Holiday" 
was  a  successful  Broadway  Stage  play  before 
Bathe  made  a  movie  of  it,  and  Monroe  Owsley 
played  the  role  of  understanding  big  brother 
in  both  versions.  He  was  bom  in  Atlanta, 
Ga  .  is  5  feet,  10;  weighs  156  pounds,  wears 
faultlessly  fitted  clothes,  tasty  ties  and  im- 
maculate hankies.  He  has  a  long-term  con- 
tract with  Baramount  and  will  be  seen  any 
day  now  in  the  latest  Fredric  March-Claud- 


Read  This  Before  Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call  for  unduly  long  answers,  such  as  synopses 
of  plays.  Do  not  inquire  concerning  religion,  scenario  writing,  or 
studio  employment.  Write  on  only  one  side  of  the  paper.  Sign  your 
full  name  and  address. 


Casts  and  Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much  space,  we  treat  such  subjects  in  a  different 
way  from  other  questions.  For  this  kind  of  information,  a  stamped, 
addressed  envelope  must  be  sent.  Address  all  inquiries  to  Questions 
and  Answers,  Photoplay  Magazine,  221  W.  57th  St..  New  York  City. 


The  girl  who  came  back  in 
"The  Man  Who  Came  Back" 


came  along  and  slapped  him  on  the 
back.  His  real  name  is  Duke  Mor- 
rison, he  was  bora  May  26,  1907  in 
Winterset,  Iowa,  is  6  feet,  2,  weighs 
200  pounds,  has  brown  hair  and  blue 
eyes,  and  is  still  single.  But — and 
how  I  hate  to  break  the  sad  news — 
he's  "keeping  company." 


ette   Colbert   picture 
important  part. 


in   which   he  plays   an 


Cosette,  Holyoke,  Mass.:  Go  to  the  head 
of  the  class!  Ramon  Xovarro  did  play  in 
"Scaramouche."  Alice  Terry  was  the  girl. 
Your  heart  throb,  John  Wayne,  was  a  property 
boy  at  the  Fox  Studio  when  his  big  chance 


Dear  Seymour: 

Does  anybody  besides  movie  stars 
ever  wear  such  clothes  as  this  negli- 
gee worn  by  Bebe  Daniels  in  "My 
Past"  ?  — L.  A.  F. 

No,  dear  L.  A.  F.,  they  don't.  Such 
things  as  this  are  just  fine  symbols  of 
\\  hat  not  to  do. 


^^c^rrtycrocyi^ 


Jane,  Buffalo,  X.  Y.:  Here  are 
some  of  the  tall  girls  of  pictures: 
Jeanette  MacDonald  is  5  feet,  5; 
Garbo  is  5  feet,  6;  Alice  Joyce,  Lib- 
yan Tashman,  Gwen  Lee  and  Hedda 
Hopper  are  5  feet,  7,  and  Gertrude 
Astor  is  5  feet,  7J-£. 

Mildred,  Lancaster,  Penna.:  "I'm  Only 
the  Words.  You  Are  the  Melody."  and  "Xever 
Swat  a  Fly"  are  two  of  the  popular  songs  from 
"Just  Imagine." 

Eleanor,  Philadelphia,  Pen~xa.:  We're 
so  smart  at  Photoplay  Magazine  that  we 
answer  questions  even  before  they're  asked. 
You'll  find  an  article  in  the  February  issue  that 
answers  all  your  questions  about  Marie  Doro. 
You  know,  she  hasn't  made  a  picture  for  many 
years.    Xeither  has  Elliott  Dexter. 

Jack  and  Jill,  Sacramento,  Calif.:  "The 
Sea  Wolf"  was  Milton  Sill's  last  picture.  I, 
too,  thought  he  gave  a  great  performance  in  it. 
Jane  Keith,  who  played  opposite  him,  was 
bora  22  years  ago  in  Kansas  City,  Mo.  She 
weighs  115  pounds,  is  5  feet,  J4  inch  tall,  is 
blonde  and  has  blue  eyes.  Photoplay  pub- 
lished a  little  story  about  her  in  the  September, 
1930  issue.  You  can  get  that  issue  by  sending 
a  letter  to  our  Circulation  Department, 
919  Xbrth  Michigan  Avenue,  Chicago,  111., 
and  enclosing  twenty-five  cents  with  your 
request. 

P.  L.  K.,  Clinton,  III.:  You  want  to  know 
about  Jane,  too?  Well,  read  the  preceding 
answer.  Nancy  Carroll's  latest  released 
picture  is  "Stolen  Heaven,"  in  which  Phillips 
Holmes  plays  opposite  her.  But  she's  hard 
at  work  on  another  picture  right  now.  "That 
crazy  Jack  Oakie"  comes  from  Sedalia,  Mo. 
Aren't  you  glad  he  didn't  stay  there?  Sure, 
I've  got  a  big  brain.  Some  of  my  best  enemies 
call  it  a  "big  head." 

Estelle,  Chicago,  III.:  So  you  like  he- 
men!  Buck  Jones  is  married,  Tom  Tyler  is 
27  and  unmarried,  and  Bob  Steele  is  num- 
bered among  the  single,  too.  It's  a  fact,  and 
a  sad  one,  that  Fred  Thomson  passed  on  in 
December,  1928.  Tom  Mix  has  been  recu- 
perating from  an  illness. 

Abe.  the  Buck  Jones  Fan:  Buck  is  41 
years  old,  5  feet,  UJ£  inches  tall,  and  weighs 
175  pounds.  He  has  a  daughter  of  13.  His 
real  name  is  not  Buck,  but  Charles.  But 
that's  a  deep,  dark  secret  and  don't  let  anyone 
know  I  told  vou. 


ropj  i\   M  \>.\/im    i  on  M  uu  h,  i     i 


our  yix  /Dcuy 

am  nrn  uicW  /buy 


99 


STUDY   MY   MANNEQUIN   ANB    DF.R    STARS   TO    KNOW    WBY 

CWy  <?  liea/lluj.  J  kin  can  Atau  iiouna 


the  forehead  —  To  guard  against  tines 
and  wrinkles  here,  apply  Milkweed  Cream, 
stroking  with  fingertips,  outward  from  the 
center  of  your  brow. 

THE  eyes — If  you  would  avoid  aging 
feet,  smooth  Ingram's  about  the  eyes,  stroke 
with  a  feather  touch  outward,  beneath  eyes 
and  over  eyelids. 


the  MOUTH  —  Drooping  lines  are  easily  de- 
feated by  filming  the  fingertips  with  m; 
and  sliding  them  upward  our  the  mouth  and 
then  outward  toward  the  earn,  starting  at 
the  middle  of  the  chin. 

the  throat  —  To  keep  your  throat  from 
flabbiness.  cover  with  a  film  of  Milkweed 
and  smooth  gently  downward,  ending  uith 
rotary  moiement  at  base  of  neck. 


* 


By  Francos  Ingram 

I  HAD  almost  forgotten  her  —  the 
amusing  and  quite  delightful  girl 
who  came  to  see  me  monthj  ago.  And 
then— this  letter  from  California. 

"Remember  when  I  came  to  consult 
with  you,  last  September?  I  told  you  I 
was  going  to  find  a  big  hat  with  a  wide 
floppy  brim — and  a  veil!  To  hide  what 
a  whole  summer  spent  principally  on 
the  Sound  had  done  to  my  poor  skin. 

"I'm  doing  the  Pacific  now,"  the  let- 
ter goes  on  to  say.  "But  every  night  I 
spread  your  Milkweed  Cream  lavishly 
over  my  face  and  neck,  and  leave  it  for 
several  minutes  so  that  the  delicate  oils 
can  penetrate  deeply  into  the  pores. 

"Then — I  put  on  a  fresh  film  of  Milk- 
weed Cream  and  pat  it  in,  stroking 
outward  and  upward  at  the  six  stars 
shown  on  your  mannequin. 

"You  have  no  idea  what  a  difference 
your  cream  and  your  method  have  made 
in  my  skin.  It's  soft  now — without  a 
single  blemish! 

"And  I  can  wear  an  off-the-forchcad 
hat  with  entire  nonchalance!" 

t  r  t 

Will  you  try  my  starred  way  to  a  soft, 
clear  skin?  You  have  only  to  follow  the 
instructions  given  below. 

In  my  radio  programs  "Through  the 
Looking  Glass  With  Frances  Ingram" 
(Tuesdays,  10:15  A.  M.,  E.  S.  T.,  WJZ 
and  associated  stations)  I  discuss  many 
skin  problems.  Mail  the  coupon  below 
for  my  free  booklet,  "Why  Only  a 
Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young". 


the  yr.CK—Tr  prevent  a  sagging  chin  and 
a  lined  neck,   stroke  uith  fingertips  coiered 
uith  Milk u  eed  from  middle  of  chin  / 
the  ears  and  patting  firmly  all  along  the 
jaw  contours. 

the  BHOl  i.ders — To  hate  shoulders  that 
are  blemish-free  and  firmly  smooth,  cleanse 
uith  Milkweed  Cream  and  massage  with 
palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion. 


INGRAM'S 


HTljIkioeecU  Cream 

THREE  SIZES..  50*.  .$1  .  .$1.7) 


Frances  Ingram.  Dept   A-31 

108  Washington  St.,  N.  Y.  C. 

Please  send  me  your  ftee  booklet,  "Why  Only  a  Healthy 

Skin  Can  Stay  Young."  which  tells  in  complete  detail  how 

to  caxe  tor  the  skin  and  to  guard  the  six  vital  spots  of  youth. 

Na  m 


.■!.:..'':_ 


When  you  write  to  adtertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZIXE. 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


Ten  years  ago  she  was  one  of  the 
best  known  leading  women  in 
pictures.  Recently  she  had  been 
out  of  the  limelight.  And  it  came 
as  a  great  shock  when  we  learned 
that  Ethel  Grey  Terry  had  died, 
after  a  long  illness 


She  observed  Lebedeff  doing  his  hand-kiss- 
ing act,  which  is  quite  famous  in  Hollywood 
by  now. 

Then  she  sniffed. 

"Hmph/'  she  said,  "he  can't  hold  a  candle 
to  a  waiter  we've  got  back  home  in  Minnesota !" 

PLENTY  of  cinemaland  pocketbooks  suffered 
when  the  Bank  of  Hollywood  closed  its 
doors.  But  somebody  at  the  United  Artists 
studio  got  square.  He  took  a  pail  of  paint  and 
a  brush  across  the  street  to  where  a  huge  24- 
sheet  billboard  proclaimed: 

BANK  of  HOLLYWOOD 
"GROWING  with  HOLLYWOOD" 

When  the  paint-wielder  was  done,  the  poster 
read: 

BANK  of  HOLLYWOOD 
"—OWING— HOLLYWOOD" 

CHARLES  (Ex-Buddy)  Rogers  has 
five  automobiles — a  16-cylinder 
roadster,  two  town  cars,  a  phaeton 
and  a  Ford. 

RING  the  bells  ami  lire  the  old  tin  cannon  in 
the  Public  Square!  Ernst  Lubitsch  and 
Emil  Jannings  are  to  be  reunited  again,  accord- 
ing to  report. 

Unset  I'.mil,  following  his  tremendous  Amer- 
ican reception  in  "The  Blue  Angel,"  is  to  make 
"The  Man  I  Killed"  under  the  direction  of 
Ernst  the  Great,  with  Phil  Holmes  in  the 
troupe. 

Thus  the  great  team  that  made  "Passion," 
years  ago,  in  which  we  discovered  both  Jan- 
nings and  Negri,  is  together  again!  So  let 
the  huzzas  ring  out! 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  51  ] 

WHENEVER  Joan  Crawford  has  to  go  to 
one  of  her  own  previews  she  always  dines 
at  six. 

The  preview  is  never  until  eight-thirty,  but 
the  reason  for  the  early  dinner  is  so  that  her 
food  will  digest  before  she  begins  to  get 
petrified  with  fear  and  panic  over  witnessing 
herself  act  on  the  screen. 

YOU  remember  all  the  publicity 
that  Ramon  Novarro  and  Elsie 
Janis  got  recently  when  they  had  a 
little  friendly  tussle  at  the  Lawrence 
Tibbetts'.  The  other  night,  Ramon 
took  Elsie  to  another  party.  One  of 
her  friends  came  up  and  patted  her  on 
the  shoulder. 

"Don't  touch  her,"  said  Ramon, 
"or  your  name  will  be  on  all  the  front 
pages  of  the  papers." 

NENA  QUARTARO  denies  that  she  ever 
said,  "I  consider  myself  engaged  to  Frank 
Carideo,  quarterback  for  Notre  Dame."  Denies 
it  with  tears  in  her  eyes. 

"I  never  told  that  to  the  reporter  who 
printed  it.    I  was  in  Bell,  Calif.,  and  my  sister 


talked  to  him.  She  denies  that  she  said  it. 
Frank  and  I  have  known  each  other  since  I 
was  twelve. 

"We  lived  just  a  half  mile  apart  in  ML 
Vernon,  N.  Y. 

"I  have  always  admired  him.  He  came  to  my 
house,  here.  A  newspaper  writer  was  presenL 
She  said  she  thought  we  were  engaged. 

"Frank  said,  T  wouldn't  call  it  engaged  but 
when  I  come  to  California  during  my  vacation, 
I  am  coming  to  see  Nena.' 

"I  warned  Frank  to  be  careful  or  they  would 
print  our  engagement.  He  said,  'Great.  I'll 
get  a  great  kick  out  of  that.  You  send  me  the 
papers.' 

"I  was  worried  for  fear  even  a  rumor  like 
that  might  hurt  him  at  college. 

"And  I  don't  believe  Frank  Carideo  said 
it  was  a  cheap  attempt  to  get  publicity  He 
wouldn't  do  it. 

"I  won't  believe  that,  any  more  than  I 
hope  he  won't  believe  I  said  we  were  en 
gaged.     I  swear  I  didn't." 

She  admits  to  a  close  friendship,  and  those 
who  were  at  the  station  when  she  saw  Frank 
off  tell  how  he  held  her  hand  and  ^id,  "It's 

[  PLEASE  TURN"  TO  PAGE  92  1 


International 


One  of  filmland's  newest  brides — in  her  hands  she  holds  the  fateful 
little  paper  that  legalized  her  marriage  to  Clyde  E.  Greathouse,  an  oil 
operator.  She's  Josephine  Dunn,  the  pretty  blonde  who  has  been  seen 
in  lots  ot  pictures  in  the  past  few  years.  She  was  divorced  from  William 
P.  Cameron  in  1928 


90 


PH0T0P1  w    M  \«.\/im     i  01    M  \u<  11.    1       I 


9' 


Do  these  three  things  ...  to  have  strong,  health)  teeth 


1.   Iih-IiuIc  dtoN  in 
>  our   Jul  \    dirt: 

'  til*  ret'.  '  I 
I  tgf    9T  ttfrrr.     li 

bmm  uHtb  trangt  juut, 
<W  iuart  tf  milk,  and 
ilA#r  r*.-J  n  mil  tb*  tatts. 


«%* 

3.  Bm     your  den- 
tist at  least  twice  ■ 
a  year. 

Teeth  neglected  today 
may  inflict  a  costly  penalty 

this  is  no  time  to  economize  with  health 


FOR  your  health's  sake,  don't  carry 
economy  too  far.  If  you  need  den- 
tal treatment,  don't  delay  because  of 
the  few  dollars  you  will  pay  in  dental 
fees.  Neglect  a  tiny  decay  cavity  in 
your  teeth,  and  you  may  pay  for  it 
with  heart  trouble  or  rheumatism. 
If  you  escape  that,  orsomething  worse, 
the  best  you  can  hope  for  is  some  ex- 
pensive bridgework  in  the  future. 

Take  care  of  teeth — remove  film 

Keep  teeth  in  repair.  Keep  Pepsodcnt 
tooth  paste  at  hand  and  see  that  the 
whole  family  uses  it-  Those  are  two 
important  ways  to  save  both  health 
and  money. 

Pepsodent  frees  teeth  of  the  stub- 
born, clinging  coating  known  as  film. 
Remove  film  and  you  remove  the  mil- 
lions of  acid-producing  bacteria  that 
destroy  the  tooth's  delicate  enamel  .  . . 
that    cause    manv    other    commonly 


Fil 


m 


is  found  by  dental 
research  to  play  an 
important  part  in  tooth  decay  ...  to  cause 
unsightly  discoloration-,  on  enamel.  It 
must  be  removed  twice  daily. 


Amos  'n'  Andy  brought  to  you  by  Pep- 
sodent every  night  except  Sundav  over 
N".  B.C.  network.  7:00  p.  ni.  on  stations 
operating  on  Eastern  time.  10:00  p.  m. 
on  stations  operating  on  Central  time. 
9:00  p.  in..  Mountain  time.  8:00  p.m., 
time. 


ftStS 


known  disorders. 
You  remove  the 
unsightly  stains 
that  film  absorbs 
from  different 
foods  and  smok- 
ing. These  are  mistaken  by  most 
people  as  the  natural  color  of  their 
teeth. 

To  remove  film  more  effectively 
than  by  any  other  method  except  your 
dentist's  cleaning,  Pepsodent  was  de- 
veloped. That's  why  it  is  called  the 
special  film-removing  tooth  paste. 

Pepsodent  contains  no  pumice,  no 
harmful  grit  or  crude  abrasives.  It  has 
a  gentle  action  that  protects  the  deli- 
cate enamel.  It  is  completely  SAFE 
.  .  .  yet  it  removes  dingy  film  where 
ordinary  methods  fail. 

Try  Pepsodent  today  —  it  is  an  im- 
portant adjunct  in  possessing  lovelier, 
healthier  teeth  through  life. 


l£  p  S  O  Q  C II  t— the  special  film-removing  tooth  paste 

H  mention  MIOTOPLAY  MAGAZIXE. 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


i  sued  from  page  90  ] 


just  like  cutting  my  arm  off  to  say  good-bye 
to  you." 

Sweethearts,  but  not  an  engaged  couple, 
we  take  it. 

ALL  kinds  of  new  careers  are 
opening  up  for  Esther  Ralston. 
She's  made  a  fine  comeback  in  the 
talkies  (see  "The  Southerner")  after 
a  long  and  profitable  vaudeville  tour. 
And  now  she  and  her  manager- 
husband,  George  Webb,  expect  an 
addition  to  the  family  some  time  in 
June. 

ANEW  hiding  place  of  Greta  Garbo's  has 
been  discovered.  It's  called  "Little  Bit  o' 
Sweden"  and  is  a  restaurant  which  serves  only 
food  from  Greta's  native  land.  It's  a  rough- 
looking  place  in  a  big  frame  house  just  off 
Wilshire  Boulevard.  Crude  benches  and 
chairs.  Luncheon  fifty  cents.  Dinner  eighty- 
live  to  a  dollar  and  a  quarter.  Greta  is  a  fre- 
quent visitor. 

"She  usually  comes  in  with  her  brother  and 
her  secretary,"  the  owner  told  the  lady  who 
discovered  Greta  among  those  present. 

"Does  her  brother  talk  French?''  The 
owner  nodded  eagerly. 

So  we  judge  that  Director  Feyder  was  the 
"brother"  in  question. 

One  day  an  eager  fan  discovered  Miss  Garbo. 
"Why  do  you  come  here?"  he  asked  her. 

"  Because  I  like  the  food,"  Greta  answered 
simply.    And  why  not? 

DANNY  CUPID'S  Operative  No. 
4-X-17  reports  things  about 
Dorothy  Mackaill  and  rugged  young 
Joel  McCrea. 

She's  got  a  pet  name  for  him. 
It's  "Softy." 

IN  "Unfaithful"  Ruth  Chatterton  is  supposed 
to  throw  a  pair  of  dice  and  lose.  Before  the 
scene  was  taken,  she  said,  "What  number 
shall  I  take?  Tell  me  a  point  that  is  hard 
to  make." 


High  above  the  stage,  from  the  runway  upon 
which  the  electricians  stand  to  manage  the 
spotlights  came  a  wan  voice,  "They're  all  hard, 
lady." 

CAYS  Li'l  Danny  Cupid: 
^  ...  William  Powell  and  Carole  Cdon't 
forget  the  final  "e")  Lombard  going  places  to- 
gether and  all  Hollywood  waiting.  .  .  .  Viola 
Dana's  stepmother  divorces  Viola's  father  be- 
cause, she  complained,  he  persisted  in  letting 
his  hair  grow  long.  .  .  .  Florence  Lake, 
Arthur's  sister,  wearing  a  great  diamond  ring 
and  admitting  it's  from  Jack  Goode,  stage 
actor,  whom  she's  going  to  marry.  .  .  . 

.  .  .  Florence  Lawrence — remember  her, 
'way  back  in  the  old  Biograph  days? — gets  the 
headlines  again,  but  this  time  because  she  sues 
for  divorce  from  Charles  Woodring,  cosmetics 
manufacturer  .  .  .  and  part  of  the  settlement 
between  them  is  that  she  gets  a  half-interest  in 
his  lipstick-and-rouge  factory.  .  .  . 

.  .  .  Josephine  Dunn  gets  out  license  to 
marry  a  young  oil  magnate  and  reveals  she  was 
divorced  not  so  long  ago  by  a  Boston  manufac- 
turer and  her  real  name  is  Mrs.  Mary  Josephine 
Cameron.  .  .  .  Murrel  Finley,  who  was  once 
selected  by  a  noted  artist  as  "the  golden  girl" 
of  California,  although  she  came  from  New 
York,  marries  Eddie  Cronjager,  famous  cine- 
matographer.  .  .  . 

A  NN  HARDING'S  father  is  dead. 
-**■    He  was  Colonel  George  C.  Gatley,  one  of 
the  old-line  army  veterans.    Early  in  January 
he  died  in  a  military  hospital  in  San  Francisco, 
after  a  long  illness. 

This  recalls  the  reconciliation  between  the 
old  army  colonel  and  his  picture-famous 
daughter. 

Years  ago,  they  quarreled  when  she,  against 
his  wishes,  took  the  stage  for  a  career.  Re- 
cently, while  he  lay  on  his  sick-bed  in  the  San 
Francisco  hospital,  Ann  visited  him  and  was 
forgiven. 

He  leaves  another  daughter  besides  Ann. 
The  other  daughter  is  the  wife  of  a  Hollywood 
business  man. 


Just  a  Dandy 

Bedroom  Outfit 


If  this  isn't  good  to  look  at,  I'm  fash- 
ion blind — which  I'm  not. 

This  bedroom  outfit  of  Anita  Page, 
my  dears,  is  called  "nyjamas" — pro- 
nounced nyjamas. 

It  has  trouser  legs  just  like  other  well 
behaved  pajamas — except  that  each 
leg  is  almost  two  yards  around. 

But  aren't  they  pajamas  good  to  look 
at? 


^-e^rriy<yvc/L, 


Yep,  it  does  happen  in  the  movies!  The  Barton  Twins,  Beatrice  and 
Bertha,  were  visiting  the  Paramount  studio,  and  Eddie  Sutherland  was 
directing  Jack  Oakie  in  "The  Gang  Buster."  Ed  saw  the  girls  and 
made  them  do  a  scene  with  Oakie  and  Jean  Arthur.  And  here's  the 
big  scene,  Barton  girls  and  all! 


FOR  the  first  time  in  his  life,  Charlie  Chaplin 
is  learning  a  foreign  tongue — Spanish. 

"So  I  can  understand  the  bullfight  when  I 
get  to  Spain,"  he  explains.  Seeing  a  bullfight 
is  the  high  spot  of  his  forthcoming  European 
tour,  he  insists. 

"A  bullfight  is  not  brutal,"  he  says.  "  If  you 
understand  it,  it  is  a  beautiful  display.  The 
toreador's  real  object  is  not  to  kill  the  bull — 
that's  merely  incidental.  The  real  purpose  of 
his  art  is  to  transform  the  bull's  fury  into  a 
beautiful  dance — a  beautiful  dance  of  death." 

Well,  anyway — Charlie's  trying  out  his 
Spanish  on  everybody  in  Hollywood.  Not  a 
Spaniard  or  a  Mexican  understands  it,  yet— \ 
until  Charlie  starts  acting  out  what  he's  saying. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  °-4.  1 


92 


I'lloion  \\    M  \CAZIN1     I  01    M  KSU  H.    1       1 


She  thought: 

\  on  ll  iks  <i  be  lack)  in  loi  • 

i n 1 1 1   \ -ml     B.  <  ). 

)<  f«  lit  In-  JK>Ht<\ 

She  said: 

■   ^  our  lie.u  i-Iiim-  -Inns  -  DUB] 

difficulties  ahead." 


rr 


Luck"  was  always  against  him 

.  .  .  until  he  ended  rB.OS 


SOMEONE  else  got  the  job  be  wanted. 
Someone  else  won  the  uirl  be  admired. 
"Bad  Luck",  he  called  it.  Hut  the  real  reason 
was — body  odor! 

People  hate  to  mention  this  distressing 
fault — even  under  the  polite  name,  "B.O." 
Hut  finally  a  close  friend  did  tell  him,  sug- 
gested a  simple  safeguard.  Today  he  is  forg- 
ing ahead  in  business — a  favorite  socially. 
"B.O."  is  no  longer  a  fatal  handicap. 
•         •         • 

Often  we  wonder  why  we  don't  succeed 
faster — make  friends  easier.  '"B.O."  may  be 
the  unsuspected  cause. 

For  everyone  perspires.  Science  declares 
that  even  on  cool  days  pores  give  off  a  quart 
of  odor-causing  waste.  Unnoticed  by  us.  be- 
cause we  soon  become  accustomed  to  it,  this 


(ft.v/;/  Odor) 

ever-present  odor  may  be  B  constant  annoy- 
ance to  others. 

Don't  take  chances.  Adopt  the  simple  pre- 
caution of  millions  of  particular  men  and 
women,  and  be  sure  of  not  offending.  Wash 
and  bathe  regularly  with  Lifebuoy.  Its 
gentle,  creamy,  antiseptic  lather  purifies 
pores  so  deeply  that  "13.0."  completely 
vanishes.  And  how  gloriously  fresh — how 
satisfyingly  clean  you  feel! 

Keeps  complexions  youthful 

Clogged  pores  stifle  complexion  beauty. 
Lifebuoy's  soothing,  penetrating  lather 
gently  frees  pores  of  impurities — makes  dull 
skins  bloom  with  healthy,  youthful  radiance. 
It-  pleasant  extra-clean  scent — that  vanishes 
as  you  rinse — tells  you  Lifebuoy  purifies. 
Adopt  Lifebuoy  today. 

LEVER  BROTHER-  CO..  CambrUge,  Hat*. 


It'slSeic! 
ifebuoy 
Shaving  Cream 


N'ew  doable-dense  lather 
«oothes,  lubricatp!i  and 
protects  .  .  .  end*  tender 
spots  that  hurl  when  you 
•have.  At  Your  druggist 'i 


Lifebuoy 

HEALTH      SOAP         * 

-stops  body  odor- 


When  you  write  10  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZIXC 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  92  ] 


Under  a  broiling  sun,  so  hot  that  parasols  are  in  order,  it's  snowing 
in  Hollywood !  The  property  boys  are  covering  this  cliff  with  studio 
snow  so  that  John  Boles  and  Lupe  Velez  can  make  a  scene  for 
"Resurrection,"  laid  in  coldest  Russia.  Yes,  sir,  they  make  snow, 
even  if  they  die  of  sunstroke  at  it! 


Then  his  pantomime  is  so  good  that  everybody 
understands  it. 

CHESTER  MORRIS'  dad,  William  Morris, 
well-known  stage  actor,  is  in  pictures  now. 
He  has  a  big  part  in  "The  Gang  Buster,"  Jack 
Oakie's  new  comedy. 

"It  took  more'n  a  half  year  of  high-powering 
on  my  part  to  get  dad  out  to  Hollywood  and 
into  pictures,"  Chester  Morris  explained. 

"You  see,  dad  has  been  on  the  stage  more 
than  forty  years — and  veterans  of  the  stage  get 
funny  that  way.  Think  it  cheapens  their  art  to 
do  their  stuff  before  the  camera. 

"Reminds  me  of  the  time  when  he  was  asked 
if  he'd  play  a  role  in  a  stage  play  wherein  I  was 
the  lead.  'Would  you  mind  supporting  your 
son?'  the  producer  wired  him.  'Why  not?'  he 
wired  back;  'I've  been  doing  it  all  his  life!'  " 

"  A  FTER  I  got  a  foothold  in  pictures,  I  got 
-*»-dad  out  for  a  visit.  He  sat  around  and 
sat  around  and  sat  around  and  said  the  climate 
was  fine  but  he  couldn't  stand  doing  nothing — 
he'd  go  crazy. 

"So — I  had  nothing  to  do  with  this;  oh,  no! 
— he  was  offered  a  job  in  the  Bert  Lytell 
picture  'Brothers.'  Because  he  was  bored 
doing  nothing,  he  took  it. 

"Well,  he  got  much  more  salary  for  that  than 
he  ever  got  on  the  stage.  And  now  he  loves 
pictures!  The  salary  check  convinced  him 
that  pictures  are  a  real  business  now,  and  he's 
here  to  stay!" 

V\7HEX  the  Filmarte  (a  little  Hollywood 
*V  movie  theater  devoted  to  the  higher 
things  of  the  cinema)  ran  the  silent  UFA  movie 
"  Manon  Lcscaut,"  it  advertised  on  its  marquee 
"Marlenc  Dietrich."  And,  of  course,  the  house 
was  filled  on  the  strength  of  it,  but  Lya  de 
I'utti  (remember  her  in  "Variety"  and  a 
couple  of  American  films?)  was  the  star  and 
Dietrich  had  only  a  bit. 

What's  more,  she  played  a  comedy  role  and 
she  was  so  plump  that  if  you  hadn't  been 

94 


watching  pretty  closely  you'd  never  have 
recognized  her. 

The  picture  was  made  by  UFA  a  good  many 
months  ago.    It  was  filmed  in  France. 

HTHE  entire  Los  Angeles  section  of  Southern 
■*•  California  has  been  suffering  from  a  wave  of 
petty  thievery.  Radio  broadcasts  have 
warned  citizens  to  leave  their  gems  at  home. 
There  were  close  to  three  hundred  robberies  in 
the  month  of  December.  But,  strange  to  say, 
the  stars  have  been  little  molested. 

Marie  Dressier  personally  received  a  C.  O.  D. 
package  from  the  delivery  man  for  a  depart- 
ment store.  She  paid  by  check.  Ten  minutes 
later  the  boy  pounded  at  the  door  and  asked  if 
he  could  come  in  for  a  moment.  He  was  white 
and  trembling.  A  thief  had  held  him  up  in 
Marie's  back-yard  and  taken  between  eighty 
and  ninety  dollars.  Since  Marie's  servants  were 
out,  she  trembled  a  bit  herself — and  admits  it. 

TDAUL  FEJOS,  directing  the  French  version  of 
*-  "The  Big  House,"  was  driving  to  Beverly 
Hills  from  the  M-G-M  studios.  He  stopped 
for  a  boulevard-stop.  "Where's  Robertson 
Boulevard?"  a  man  queried.  Fejos  turned  to 
point  and  felt  something  in  his  ribs.  "Hand 
out  your  wallet!"  Fejos  complied  and  the 
young  fellow  selected  twenty  dollars  from  the 
more-than-a-hundred.  "Give  me  your  keys — 
you'll  find  them  on  the  sidewalk  in  the  middle 
of  the  next  block."  Fejos  found  them  and 
drove  home  to  announce,  "The  gag  was  worth 
twenty  bucks.    We'll  use  it  in  a  picture." 

Mary  Bartol,  in  charge  of  magazine  pub- 
licity for  Universal,  was  robbed  of  the  few 
dollars  her  pocketbook  contained  on  the  way 
home  one  evening.  Her  diamond  ring  was  not 
touched. 

A  man  employed  in  the  Universal  Studio 
cafe  was  held  up  in  one  of  the  busiest  sections 
of  Hollywood  Boulevard  one  Saturday  and 
relieved  of  fifteen  dollars.  The  thief  made  a 
mistake.  He  thought  he  had  stopped  the  pay- 
roll boy. 


Russell  Hoover,  cameraman,  was  returning 
home  from  Radio  Pictures  at  midnight  when 
he  was  stopped  at  a  stoplight  intersection  by 
another  car.  He  thought  the  two  men  were 
police.  "  Get  out,"  they  ordered,  and  relieved 
him  of  his  watch,  seven  dollars  and  a  new- 
overcoat. 

TJTOWF.VER,  the  bigger  rackets  directed 
■*■  •'-against  the  stars  continue.  Reginald 
Denny  was  forced  recently  to  broadcast  a 
warning  against  a  fellow  posing  as  either  him- 
self or  his  brother.  A  bad  check  trail  in  the 
name  of  "Denny"  was  spreading  over  the 
entire  Pacific  Coast.  The  most  daring  pose 
was  the  acceptance  of  advance  money  for  per- 
sonal appearances  in  cities  of  Northern  Cali- 
fornia. 

D  UDY  YALLEE  has  left  the  Paramount 
-^Vrheater,  in  Brooklyn,  X.  Y.,  after  a  long 
engagement. 

He  took  a  two-weeks'  holiday  in  Miami 
and  then  was  due  to  start  on  a  tour  of  other 
Publix  Theaters. 

Rudy's  drawing  power  was  slipping  in 
Brooklyn.  His  Publix  contract  runs  until 
June,  1931.  He's  still  crooning  his  way  to 
much  money  per  week — even  though  he's 
never  made  good  that  threat  to  get  a  glass 
megaphone,  as  far  as  I  know. 

T_TOLLYWOOD  has  been  full  of  McLaglens. 
*■*•  Three  of  Big  Victor's  brothers  are,  or 
have  been,  out  in  the  film  colony. 

War  broke  out  between  Vic  and  his  brother 
Leopold.  The  latter  filed  suit  for  S90,000 
damages,  charging  slander  and  defamation  of 
character.  He  said  Vic  had  remarked  that 
"There's  room  for  only  one  McLaglen  in  Holly- 
wood— and  that's  I." 

We  await  the  next  moves.    What  a  war  it  i 
would  be  if  four  huge  McLaglens  started  brawl- 
ing!   Knock  over  a  few  haciendas,  that  would!  i 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  112  ] 


Hollywood's  newest  kid  find! 
Little  Jackie  Searle  scored  such  a 
sound  hit  as  sissie  Sid  Sawyer  in 
"Tom  Sawyer"  that  Paramount 
clapped  a  long  term  contract  on 
the  lad  and  cast  him  in  "Finn  and 
Hattie  Abroad" 


PbOIOPI  w    M  \«.\/im     i  i  nil 


,  ki/u^on/i/)^ 


CORRECT 

IN    EVERY 

STYLE    DETAIL 


Everything  possible  has  been 
done  to  make  Modess  correct 
from  the  standpoint  of  style — 
and  utility  as  well.  The  filler  is 
softly  fluffed,  gently  pliant.  The 
edges  are  skilfully  rounded — no 
sharp  revealing  lines.  Even  the 
gauze  has  been  specially  treated 
so  that  it  has  a  smooth,  easy  sur- 
face and  at  the  same  time  is  suffi- 
ciently firm.  And  Modess  is  the 
most  comfortable,  completely 
protective  sanitary  convenience 
ever  designed — reassuringly  de- 
odorant— easily  disposable. 


If  at  any  time  you  feel  that  less 
thickness  is  desirable,  try  Mode  s 
Compact.  Modess  Compact  has 
the  same  amount  of  soft,  com- 
fortable, protective  filler  as  Mo- 
dess Regular,  but  it  has  been 
gently  compressed  to  about  half 
the  thickness. 

Modess  Compact  is  superla- 
tively inconspicuous  and  is  ideal- 
ly suited  for  formal  wear  and 
travel.  Because  of  its  thinness, 
it  has  met  with  instant  approval 
by  girls  approaching  maturity 
and  normally  slender  women. 

Both  Modus  Compact  and  Modess  Regu- 
lar are  packed  in  boxes  of  twelve— and 
are  priced  the  same. 


H 


'c»4cmii 


i  -a#xm/  <*ak>j  v>a  htm/ 

NEW  BRUNSWICK     (J      N  J    U  S   A 

World's  largest  makers  of  surgical  dressings, 
bandages,  Red  Cress  alstrbent  tcr.cn,  tic 


\AjyQ 


When  you  «ri:e  to  advertisers  plcise  mention  THOTOrLiT  MAG.VZrXE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


Vogue  sAys- 

Paud  aeoieed 
7JIOTC  /tatti/icil 

77iaKC-U4J    <    < 

"All  Paris  is  creating  more  and  more  natu- 
ral appearing  make-up,"  says  this  famous 
fashion  magazine  of  NewY ork,  London,  Paris. 

"A  vivid  slash  of  red  lips  has  no  place  in 
today's  very  feminine  and  individual  mode. 
All  crudity  and  violent  contrasts  are  out. 
Whatever  colors  bring  out  your  own  best 
points  are  right.  Avoid,  therefore,  lipsticks 
that  do  not  match  your  natural  coloring."  © 
•  •  • 

Tangee,  the  world's  most  famous  Lipstick, 
leaves  no  greasy  smear  of  glaring,  flashy 
color.  Magically,  it  takes  on  color  after  you 
apply  it . . .  and  blends  perfectly  with  your 
own  natural,  individual  coloring.  TANGEE  is 
Don-drying,  non-greasy  and  permanent!   31. 

New!  Tangee  Theatrical,  a  special  dark 
shade  of  Tangee  Lipstick,  for  professional 
and  evening  use. 

Same  Tangee  Color  Principle 


7^S?JS^  Rouge  Compact  75' 


Ten  Years  Ago  in  Photoplay 


Creme  Rouge  sl 


SEND   20''  FOR  TANGEE    BEAUTY  SET 


CAL  YORK  dishes  up  the  following  para- 
graph of  tittle  tattle  in  the  issue  of 
Photoplay  for  March,  1921: 

"  It  is  said  in  studio  circles  that  Leatrice  Joy, 
who  played  in  '  Bunty  Pulls  the  Strings,'  is  to 
marry  Jack  Gilbert,  director.  At  any  rate, 
Miss  Joy  is  wearing  a  diamond  on  the  correct 
finger  and  neither  of  the  parties  has  denied 
the  engagement." 

Well,  Cal  was  right,  as  he  often  is  to  this 
day,  dear  old  soul.  But  let's  not  look  up  the 
matter  in  1931.  It's  not  too  pleasant  to  con- 
template the  awakening  from  love's  young 
dream. 

Too  often  it  resembles  a  hangover. 

nrilE  same  month  saw  the  magazine  give 
*■  space  to  two  more  romances  of  pictureland 
that  had  come  to  the  marriage  stage. 

And  it  was  a  double  wedding.  On  Dec.  26, 
1920,  in  Greenwich,  Conn.,  which  is  New 
York's  Gretna  Green,  Dorothy  Gish  and  James 
Rennie  were  married.  And  so  were  Constance 
Talmadge  and  John  Pialoglou. 

At  that  time  Connie  and  Dotty  were  Best 
Girl  Friends,  and  two  of  the  leading  comedi- 
ennes in  pictures,  and  they  took  the  big  leap 
together. 

The  Talmadge  marriage  was  brief,  but  the 
Gish  marriage  has  endured — through  storm 
and  sunshine — to  this  day. 


Containing    miniature 
Powder,  twoCreams  an 

Lipstick,   two 
d  "The  Art  of  M 

Rouges, 
ake-up." 

The  Georce  W. 

Lu 

FT  Co. 

,  Dept. 

P3 

417  Fifth  Avenue 

New  York 

\'.*m/ 

AdJrtit                                                                                                  ! 

Remember  this  beauty?  Jewel  Car- 
men, the  blonde  charmer  who  ten 
years  ago  was  bidding  for  stardom. 
She's  now  the  wife  of  Director  Roland 
West 


THERE  were  big  movie  "permeers"  a  decade 
ago,  just  as  there  are  in  Hollywood  and 
New  York  today — only  they  were  peopled  with 
the  idols  of  that  day. 

The  new  Mission  Theater,  in  Los  Angeles, 
has  just  opened,  with  Doug  Fairbanks'  dashing 
romance,  "The  Mark  of  Zorro,"  as  the  attrac- 
tion. 

Let's  look  at  the  glittering  guest  list. 

Doug  and  Mary,  of  course,  "held  hands  in  a 
box,"  according  to  the  watchful  Cal  York. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thomas  H.  Incc  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Jesse  Lasky  were  in  good  seats.  (Tom, 
alas,  is  dead,  but  Jesse  was  never  more  alive). 
Mr  and  Mrs.  H.  B.  Warner  had  as  their  guest 
Pauline  Frederick. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wallace  Reid  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  William  Desmond  were  box-holders. 
Others — Gloria   Swanson  and   Husband  Her- 


bert Somborn,  Bebe  Daniels  and  her  mother, 
Lew  Cody  and  Jack  Pickford,  beautiful  Kath- 
erine  MacDonald,  surrounded  by  admiring 
males. 

The  same  scene  that  Hollywoodians  see  in 
1931 — with  some  new  faces,  gowns  and  ermine. 
Remember  the  classic  line  of  Caesar's  about 
the  Appian  Way — it  applies  equally  to  chang- 
ing filmland. 

"You  and  I  grow  old,  Horatius,  but  the 
crowd  on  Hollywood  Boulevard  is  ever  the 
same  age." 

T\  7HO  are  our  roto  beauties  in  March,  1921  ? 
W  Jean  Paige,  for  one.  Mary  Hay,  and 
Phyllis  Haver;  Mary  MacLaren,  and  Virginia 
Valli  .  .  .  We  go  in  for  slightly  regal  writing 
ladies  this  month.  An  article  by  Elinor  Glyn 
on  "Filmdom's  Boudoirs,"  and  a  short  story 
by  the  then-reigning  Olga  Petrova  .  .  .  And 
a  loving  picture  of  Alice  Brady  and  her  hus- 
band, James  Crane.  Great  grief,  can  it  be  but 
ten  short  years  ago?  ...  An  article  by  Prof. 
Bernard  Sobel,  of  the  English  Department  at 
Purdue  University.  It's  called  "How  They 
Do  It,"  and  gives  the  stars'  recipes  for  screen 
success.  Hmrnm.  A  few  years  later  Bernard 
Sobel  became  one  of  the  best  press-agents 
Florenz  Ziegfeld  ever  had,  and  as  this  is  written, 
guides  the  publicity  department  of  the  great 
Columbia  Broadcasting  Company.  From  the 
classic  shades  of  Purdue  to  Broadway — just  a 
hop,  skip  and  jump,  after  all! 

rPWO  little  stories  about  two  people  promi- 
*■  nent  in  the  public  eye. 

Here's  Madge  Bellamy — eighteen,  with  enor- 
mous and  beautiful  eyes.  She's  new  to  pic- 
tures, and  coming  to  much  notice.  And  across 
the  way  is  Mahlon  Hamilton,  stage  leading 
man  who,  in  1921,  is  knocking  over  feminine 
film  fans  right  and  left  with  his  manly  charms 
on  the  screen. 

We  still  see  Hamilton,  an  excellent  actor, 
now  and  again.  But  where  is  Madge?  Let's 
set  up  a  hue,  and  even  a  cry,  for  that  pretty 
girl. 

PICTURES  of  the  month— George  B.  Seitz, 
Marguerite  Courtot,  and  June  Caprice  in 
"Rogues  and  Romance,"  which  Seitz  wrote, 
directed  and  starred  in  .  .  .  Alice  Joyce  in 
"Cousin  Kate,"-  directed  by  Mrs.  Sidney 
Drew  .  .  .  Constance  Talmadge  and  Ken- 
neth Harlan  in  "Dangerous  Business"  .  .  . 
Bill  Hart  in  "The  Testing  Block"  ...  In 
"  Polly  with  a  Past "  Ina  Claire  makes  her 
motion  picture  debut.  It  was  the  first  play — 
and  later,  film — which  ever  joshed  the  movies, 
even  good-naturedly.  Dorothy  Gish  and  James 
Rennie,  newlyweds,  in  "Flying  Pat,"  one  of 
the  very  earliest  aviation  comedies  .  .  .  Wally 
Reid  and  Lila  Lee  in  "The  Charm  School''  I 
Charlie  Ray  in  "Nineteen,  and_Phyllis."  .  .  .  E 

FROM  the  indefatigable  Cal  York's  gossip  I 
counter — 

Pauline  Frederick  is  reported  about  to  marry  I 
a  producer's  executive. 

Buster  Collier  looks  like  star  material. 

Alice  Joyce  stops  work  at  four  and  serves  I 
tea  on  the  set.  (That  story  seems  to  be  still  I 
good  in  1931.) 

Pola  Negri's  picture,  "Passion,"  broke  all  I 
records   for  a   weekly  gross   intake   at   New 
York's  Capitol  Theater.     It  took  in  S55,000.  I 
(The  record  is  now  held  by  the  first  week  of 
Garbo's  "Anna  Christie."     The  receipts  for   i 
that  week  were  S109.000— just  double  Pola's 
figures.) 

Hoot  Gibson,  driving  a  new  racing  model, 
smacks  into  a  garage  door  and  hurts  the  feel- 
ings of  the  garage  owner — also  his  own  car. 

Fatty  Arbuckle  is  a  great  hit  in  Paris,  being 
wined  and  dined  widely,  and  no  pun  intended,  I 
either. 


Every  advertisement  in  fHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  euaranteed. 


Photoplay   Magaztni    fob  March,  i     I 


97 


KJnly  with  this  brilliant  Nail  Make-up 
are  hands  truly  zyilluring . . . 


In  the  8  fashion  cities 

of  the  ^nrld 

smart  women  a<rree 

that  its  fascinating  lustre 

surpasses  all  others 


IN  New  York,  Paris  and  London  .  .  . 
gay  Madrid,  Rome  and  the  Argentine 
.  .  .  glamorous  Budapest  and  the  ro- 
mantic city  of  Vienna,  Cutea  Liquid  Pol- 
ish is  the  newest  aid  to  romance. 

I  Ik-  things  every  clever  woman  wants 
in  a  polish  arc  fust — high  lustre — then 
quick  drying  and  long  wear.  Cutea 
Liquid  Polish  dries  in  30  seconds,  lasts  a 
week,  never  discolors  or  peels  untidily. 

Perfume  m  nail  polish  can  add  nothing 
to  these  qualities,  and  often  conflicts  with 

a  woman's  own  favorite  scent.  Lor  this 
reason  Cutex  has  never  stressed  perfume 
in  polish,  and  its  quality  remains  unex- 
celled—the result  of  16  years  of  special- 
izing in  manicure  preparations! 

1  \  erywhere  beautiful  women  prefer  it. 

Madge  Garland,  London's  famous  wom- 
an editor  of  "Britannia  and  1  ve,"  says, 
I  lo  hunt,  to  shoot,  or  dig  in  the  garden 
and  still  have  hands  that  captivate  men 
across  the  tea  table  is  a  problem  English 
women  have  solved  perfectly  with  this 
glamorous,  durable  nail  make-up." 

Follow  this  easy  Cutex  method.  First 
scrub  the  nails.  Then  remove  the  old, 
lifeless  cuticle  and  cleanse  the  tips  with 
Cutex  Cuticle  Remover  &  Nail  Cleanser. 


Now  remove  the  old  polish  with 
Cutex  Polish  Remover  and  brush 
on  your  favorite  shade  of  gleaming 
Cutex  Liquid  Polish  .  .  .  Then  a 
touch  of  Cuticle  Cream  or  Oil,  and 
under  the  tips  a  little  Nail  White. 

After  this  simple  weekly  mani- 
cure, a  few  minutes  each  day  will 
keep  your  hands  always  romantic- 
ally lovely.  Cutex  has  always  been 
first  with  every  new  aid  for  beautify- 
ing the  nails. 


Put  your  Nail  Polish   to  this 
Test.  Does  it . 

1.  dry  in  30  seconds? 

2.  never  crack,  peel,  or  discolor? 

3.  last  a  whole  week? 

4.  sparkle  always  with  chic  lustre' 

5.  come  in  sturdy  bottles,  easy  to 
open  ? 

Cutex  Manicure  Preparations. 
Liquid  Polish  with  Remover,   :<<. 

Northam  Warren,  New  York,  London,  Paris 


\A/omen  everywhere  make  hearts 
beat  faster . . .  with  this  brilliant 
tie--  Cutex  Nail  Make-up 


Cutex  Liquid  Polish 


Tips     the     fingers 


wi 


th 


ONLY 

35' 


romance 


I  enclose  I2<  for  the  Cutex  Manicure  Set  containing 
sufficient  preparations  for  six  complete  manicures. 
(In  Canada,  address  Post  Office  Box    230,  Montreal.) 

N'ortham  Warren,  Dcpt.  I  Q-3 
191  Hudson  Street New  York,  N.  Y. 


When  j-pu  write  to  advertisers  rJetse  mention  rilOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


98 


J£ 


MAYBELLIJVfE* 
PREPARATIONS* 


Of 
ALLURING    EYES 


LfLS. 

If  you  would  have  alluring  eyes  ,K.  eyes 
that  plainly  speak  the  loveliness  of  your 
beauty,  but  that  do  not  even  whisper  the 
means  taken  to  accentuate  them — use  gen- 
uine Maybelline  preparations.  Only  they, 
can  transform  eyes  into  bewitching  pools 
— without  revealing  the  secret.  That's  why 
millions  of  women  have  insisted  upon  the 
genuine  for  more  than  fifteen  years. 
MaybellineEyelash  Darkener  will  make 
your  lashes  appear  naturally  dark,  long  and 
luxuriant — instantly.  May  be  had  in  solid 
and  waterproof  liquid  forms. 
Maybelline  Eye  Shadow  in  four  deli- 
cate, subtle  shades — Blue,  Brown,  Black, 
Green — will  greatly  enhance  the  beauty, 
brilliance  and  expression  of  your  eyes. 
Maybelline  Eyebrow  Pencil — aclean,  in- 
destructible pencil  that  doesn't  crumble, 
will  form  and  line  your  brows  for  the  fin- 
ishing touch.  Choose  Black  or  Brown. 
Insist  upon  genuine,  harmless  Maybelline 
preparations  —  at  Drug  and  Dept.  stores. 

MAYBELLINE   CO..   CHICAGO 


EYELASH   DARKENER 

EYE   SIIAItOW 

EYEltltOW  PENCIL 


Maybelline  prr- 
paratio}>*  may 
be  easihf  ufaltv* 
fied  6v  ti\,"  Ma >/- 

I  ffi  rl  Ofl 
the  package. 


!n  ^v n 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 

These  New  Faces 

Watch  for  This    Each  Month 

HOSE  HOBART  ("  A  Lady  Surrenders,"  Universal)  is  the  daughter  of  parents 
who  were  professional  musicians,  but  Rose  turned  to  the  theater 
soon  after  leaving  boarding  school.  While  playing  the  ingenue 
lead  in  "Death  Takes  a  Holiday,"  she  was  signed  for  pictures. 
She  appeared  in  "Liliom"  with  Charlie  Farrell,  and  is  now  at 
■L         ^    ff         Universal. 

SYLVIA  SIDNEY  ("City  Streets,"  Paramount)  is  looked  on  with  high  favor 
by  Paramount  to  whom  she  is  under  contract.  She  appeared  in 
the  Fox  talkie,  "Thru  Different  Eyes,"  two  years  ago.  Sylvia 
was  born  in  New  York,  in  1910,  and  went  into  the  theater  in  her 
mid-teens.  This  season  she  appeared  on  Broadway  in  the  play, 
"Bad  Girl." 

C.  AUBREY  SMITH  ("The  Bachelor  Father,"  M-G-M)  is  a  British  actor 
who  has  adorned  the  American  stage  for  many  years.  Born  in 
London  and  educated  at  Cambridge,  he  has  been  in  the  theater, 
both  here  and  abroad,  for  many  years.  He  played  the  same  role 
in  "The  Bachelor  Father"  on  Broadway  that  he  is  now  enacting 
in  the  Marion  Davies  talkie. 


HENRIETTA  CROSMAN  ("The  Royal  Family  of  Broadway,"  Para- 
mount) is  one  of  the  best-loved  veterans  of  the  American  stage. 
She  was,  for  many  years,  a  star.  Miss  Crosman,  now  sixty-five, 
made  her  stage  debut  in  1883.  A  few  years  ago  she  played  in 
"Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,"  with  Mrs.  Fiske,  most  successfully. 
This  is  her  first  talkie. 


RALF  HAROLDE  ("Hook,  Line  and  Sinker,"  Radio  Pictures)  has  been  doing 
the  heavy  villainy  for  Radio  since  his  talkie  debut  in  "Jazz 
Heaven"  a  year  and  a  half  ago.  Although  only  thirty-one,  he 
was  on  the  stage  for  twelve  years  before  going  into  pictures. 
Ralf  is  a  Pittsburgh  boy,  his  parents  being  Mr.  and  Mrs.  W.  C. 
Wigger  of  that  town. 

LLlooA  LANUl  ("Body  and  Soul,"  Fox)  is  this  company's  newest  candidate 
for  big  film  things.  Born  in  Venice  twenty-four  years  ago,  she 
appeared  on  the  London  stage  for  several  seasons,  and  has  had 
two  novels  published.  Fox  scouts  saw  her  in  "A  Farewell  to  Arms" 
at  a  Broadway  theater  and  said  "Here's  a  girl  for  talkies." 
Signed  she  was! 

JUNE   MacCLOY  ("Reaching    for    the    Moon,"   United    Artists)    came    to 
Hollywood  via  the  popular  musical  show  route — "Scandals,"  to 
m***^  %  be  exact.     June  was  born  in  Sturgis,  Mich.,  and  went  to  school 

Ik  at  Ursuline  Academy,  Toledo,  O.  Well  liked  in  the  Fairbanks 
film,  she's  now  under  contract  to  Paramount.  June  is  twenty- 
one,  blonde  and  blue-eyed. 

ROBERT  ALLEN  ("Night  Nurse,"  Warner  Bros.)  had  one  of  those  breaks— 
he  lived  next  door  to  someone  influential  in  pictures.  He's  a 
Dartmouth  boy,  now  twenty-four  years  old,  and  very  good 
looking  indeed.  He  went  West  to  join  the  Warner  army  with 
little  or  no  stage  experience,  but  the}-  expect  considerable  of  the 
young  man  from  Hanover. 


Every  advertisement  in  VIIOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


I      nop]  \v  Mac  i/im    i  b,  1931 


^9? 


99 


£W 


j, 


nventiovi 


hi 


1  hat  Banishes   dialing  and  Discomlort  Irom  Women's  Flygiem 


Tlic  Most  Talked  Anout 

I  Iy&ienic  Aid  for  Women 

of  the  Day  —  Brings  New 

Poise  and  Comfort 


^ 


lljOYl 

Cellulose    Filled 

Soft   and    Gentle   as    Fluffed 

Silk  .  .  .  ana   Effective 

3  Times  Longer 


THERE  is  now  an  utterly  new  and  totally 
different  hygiene  for  women. 

Not  merely  another  sanitary  pad,  but  an 
invention  of  world-wide  importance. 

An  entirely  new  kind  of  sanitary  napkin 
made  possible  by  a  new  mechanical  inven- 
tion. It  is  New  in  design.  New  in  material. 
New  and  remarkable  in  the  results  that  it 
gives. 

Women  by  the  thousands  are  discarding 
Other  type  sanitary  methods  and  adopting 
it.  For  it  has  two  distinct  advantages — ad- 
vantages that  have  never  before  been  offered 
to  women. 

Ends  All  Chafing  — All  Irritations! 

Patented  under  U.  S.  Patents  (U.  S.  Patent 
No.  1702530),  it  is  different  from  any  other 
pad.  It  is  so  unique  in  its  results  that  we 
want  you  to  see  for  yourself.  We  want  to 
send  you  a  sample  (in  plain  wrapping,  of 
course).  We  want  you  to  open  this  sample 
and  examine  it.  You  will  note  it  is  filled  with 
pure  Rayon  Cellulose.    Soft  as  fluffed  silk. 

You  will  sec  from  its  construction  why  it 
cannot  possibly  chafe  or  irritate.  Hence  no 
more  discomfort  from  wearing  a  sanitary 
pad!  Consider  what  this  means. 

Its  softness  is  the  gentle  softness  of  fluffed 
silk.  Its  "feel"  gives  you  a  contrast  that 
will  turn  you  forever  from  irritating  old 
ways. 

Remains  EJjfectiiv  Hours  Longer 

This  new  invention  also  makes  Yeldown  5  or 
more  times  more  absorbent  than  other  san- 
itary methods  now  known  or  ever  known  to 
women.  When  you  receive  this  sample  you 
will  see,  from  its  patented  construction,  just 
why  it  can  be  worn  in  complete  safety  and 
protection  hours  longer  than  other  sanitary 
methods. 


i  a  specially 
ed  with  a  de- 
odorant— and  1 1ms 
ends  any  danger  of 

embarrassment.  Discards,  of  course,  easily 
as  tissue. 

A  crept  Trial 

The  claims  made  here,  we  know,  are  un- 
usual. If  they  are  true,  we  know  you 
want  to  take  advantage  of  this  remark- 
aide  new  invention.  We  want  you  to  see 
the  difference  with  your  own  eyes.  So 
for  the  sake  of  your  own  comfort  and 
safety,  please  send  the  coupon,  and  ex- 
amine Yeldown  yourself.  Yeldown 
Comvany,  Inc.,  220  E.  42nd  Street,  New 
York  City.  One  of  the  Divisions  of  the 
International  Paper  A  Power  Company. 


MIS  Li  cy  T.  Costello.  R   N.  PH-3-31 

own  Company,  Inc  . 
220  E.  42nd  St..  New  York. 
Please  mail  me,  in  plain  wrapper,  free  of  charge,  a. 
sample  of  Veldown  for  my  inspection. 


Sanu- 


StTttt  Address.. 


City- 


Stale. 


FOR  EVERY  WOMAN 


When  you  write  '.o  idTertlsers  pletfe  mention  PHOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


IOO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


A  SMALL  AD 


...  BUT  OH  MY! 

We  might  take  full  pages  to  tell 
you  that  OLD  GOLD  is  the 
finest,  throat-easiest  cigarette. 

But  why  waste  space  when  all  we 
want  to  say  is:— "TRY  THEM!" 
One  pack  is  worth  a  thousand 
words ! 

O.  G.  has  defeated  every  other 
leading  cigarette  in  public  taste- 
tests.  Your  throat .  . .  your  taste 
will  tell  you  why.  And  no  double 
page  ad  could  tell  you  more. 

©  P.  Lorillard  Co..  Inc. 

Old 

C  IGA  RETTES 

NOT   A    COUGH    IN    A    CARLOAD 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Richard  Arlen 
Jean  Arthur 
George  Bancroft 
<  lira  Bow 
Mary  Brian 
Martin  Burton 
Ruth  Chatterton 
June  Collyer 
Juliette  Compton 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlene  Dietrich 
Leon  Errol 
Stuart  Erwin 
Stanley  Fields 
Kay  Francis 
Skeets  Gallagher 


Mitzi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Marcia  Manners 
Cyril  Maude 
Rosita  Moreno 
Barry  Norton 
Jack  Oakie 
Guy  Oliver 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
William  Powell 
Charles  Rogers 
Stanley  Smith 
Regis  Toomey 
Fay  VVray 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Luana  Alcaniz 
Robert  Ames 
Michael  Bartlett 
Warner  Baxter 
Humphrey  Bogart 
El  Brendel 
Lucile  Browne 
Robert  Burns 
Joan  Castle 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Joyce  Compton 
Roxanne  Curtis 
Fifi  Dorsay 
Charles  Farrell 
John  Garrick 
Janet  Gaynor 
C  Henry  Gordon 
Louise  Huntington 
Warren  Hymer 
Keating  Sisters 
Richard  Keene 
Jane  Keith 
Nancy  Kelly 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
Elissa  Landi 


Dixie  Lee 
Marion  Lessing 
George  Lewis 
Myrna  Loy 
Edmund  Lowe 
Claire  Luce 
Sharon  Lynn 
Leslie  May 
Jeanctte  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 
Frances  McCoy 
Victor  McLaglen 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Goodce  Montgomery 
Lois  Moran 
J.  Harold  Murray 
George  O'Brien 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Nat  Pendleton 
Will  Rogers 
David  Rollins 
Jillian  Sand 
John  Swor 
Lee  Tracy 
Spencer  Tracy 
Ruth  Warren 
John  Wayne 
Marjorie  White 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Amos  and  Andy 
Henry  Armetta 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Evelyn  Brent 
Sue  Carol 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Betty  Compson 
Ricardo  Cortez 
Bebe  Daniels 
John  Darrow 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Eddie  Foy,  Jr 
Noel  Francis 
Ralf  Harolde 


Hugh  Herbert 
Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Everett  Marshall 
Joel  McCrea 
Jack  Mulhall 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Roberta  Robinson 
Lowell  Sherman 
Katya  Sorina 
Ned  Sparks 
Leni  Stengel 
Bert  Wheeler 
Robert  Woolsey 


Warner  Bros.  Studios,  5842  Sunset  Blvd. 


George  Arliss 
John  Barry  more 
Noah  Beery 
Joan  Blondell 
Joe  E.  Brown 
James  Cagncy 
Donald  Cook 
Claudia  Dell 
Irene  Delroy 
Robert  Elliott 
Frank  Fay 


John  Halliday 
Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
Marian  Marsh 
Edward  Morgan 
Olsen  and  Johnson 
Barbara  Weeks 
Jack  Whiting 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Joan  Bennett 
Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ronald  Colman 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 
Al  Jolson 


Evelyn  Lave 
June  MacCloy 
I'na  Merkel 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St 


Richard  Cromwell 
Constance  Cummings 

Ralph  Graves 
Jack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Margaret  Livingston 


Bert  Lytell 
Dorothy  Revier 
Dorothy  Sebastian 
Miriam  Seegar 
Barbara  Stanwyck 


Culver  City,  Calif. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


William  Bakewell 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Edwina  Bootli 
John  Mack  Brown 
Lenore  Bushman 
Harry  Carey 
Joan  Crawford 

r'-spo 
Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Douglass 
Marie  Dressier 
Cliff  Edwards 
Julia  Faye 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
William  Haines 
Hedda  Hopper 
Lottice  Howell 
Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Arnold  Korff 
Andre  Luguet 


Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  and  Russell 
Gleason 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Ellen  McCarthy 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Robert  Montgomery 
Grace  Moore 
Polly  Moran 
Catherine  Moylan 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Edward  Nugent 
Anita  Page 
Lucille  Powers 
Marie  Prevost 
Marjorie  Ram  beau 
Duncan  Renaldo 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Raquel  Torres 
l  Vail 


Ann  Harding 
Eddie  Quillan 
Helen  Twelvetrees 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 


Universal  City,  Calif. 

Universal  Studios 


Margaret  Adams 
Lew  Ayres 
John  Boles 
Hoot  Gibson 
Bela  Lugosi 
Charles  Murray 


Mary  Nolan 
George  Sidney 
Slim  Summerville 
Genevieve  Tobin 
Lupe  Velez 
John  Wray 


Burbank,  Calif. 

First  National  Studios 


Richard  Barthelmess 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Glenda  Farrell 
Joe  Frisco 
Walter  Huston 
Fred  Kohler 
Dorothy  Mackaill 


David  Manners 
Marilyn  Millei 
Ona  Munson 
Dorothy  Peterson 
James  Rennie 
Otis  Skinner 
Loretta  Young 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Ina  Claire 
Claudette  Colbert 
Xorman  Foster 
Miriam  Hopkins 


Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Ginger  Rogers 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrctt 
Ed  Wvnn 


Hollywood,  CalifJ 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire.  1212  Gower  St.  • 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd.  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy.  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Jackie  Coogan,  673  S.  Oxford  Ave. 
Pat  OMalley.  1832  Tan  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St, 
Ruth  Roland.  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor.  5254  Los  Fcliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray,  22  E.  60th  St.,  New  York 

William  S.  Hart.  Horseshoe  Ranch.  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsv    Ruth    Miller,    808    Crescent    Drive,    Beverly 

Hills.  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and   Karl  Dane  request  that  their 

mail  be  sent  to  them  in  Beverly  Hills.  Calif.     No 

street  address  is  necessary". 


Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


rOPLAY    M  \i.V1m     i  11 


I'll 


// 


When  we  need  a  clock  on  the  RKO  lot,  we  call  for 
a  Warren  Telechron* — RKO  Studios" 


MOVIE-MAKING  is  an  exacting  business.  Effi- 
cient production  demands  that  scenes  be 
shot  strictly  on  schedule.  Naturally  the  big 
companies  depend  upon  Telechron  Electric 
Clocks  —  the  most  modern,  most  accurate 
time-tellers  ever  devised. 

Radio  Pictures  has  used  a  number  of 
Telechron  models  in  its  new  picture, 
'Behind  Office  Doors,"  featuring  Mary  Astor, 
Robert  Ames,  Catherine  Dale  Owen, 
Ricardo  Cortex  and  a  splendid  supporting 
cast.  Three  models  from  that  picture  are 
shown    below.      Watch    for    them    when 


"Behind  Office  Doors"  comes  to  your  theater. 

Telechron  Clocks  never  need  winding  or 
oiling  or  regulating.  Their  uncanny  preci- 
sion is  made  possible  by  Telechron  Master 
Clocks  in  America's  power  houses.  Only 
clocks  marked  "Telechron"  on  the  dial  can 
bring  you  true  Telechron  service. 

There  are  Telechron  motored  clocks  in 
rich  variety — tall  grandfather's  clocks  for 
hall  or  stairway  —  other  models  for  wall  or 
mantel,  desk  or  dressing-table.  Some  with 
chimes,  with  alarms,  with  illuminated  dials, 


and  other  novel  features.  You'll  find  them 
displayed  by  a  dealer  near  you,  listed  in 
the  classified  telephone  directory  under 
"Telechron." 

Telechron  Clocks  range  in  price  from 
$9.75  to  S55.  The  Revere  Clock  Company 
of  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  manufactures  chiming 
clocks  with  Telechron  motors,  priced  from 
$40  to  $1200. 

■*•  Telechron  is  the  trade-mark,  registered  in  the 
U.S. Patent  Office,  ol  the  Warren  Telechron  Company. 

WARREN  TELECHRON  COMPANY 

ASHLAND,     MASSACHUSETTS 


■i  write  to  c  :  .^<?  mention  rHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 


102 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


hULF-rACE  II 


EST 


wo 


OF  SKIN-LOVELINESS 
WITHIN  REACH  OF  EVERY  WOMAN 


Compare  the  P>c 
the  difference 


ure  at 


Here  is  striking  ?«»* 


th«  fauhful  use  o 


15  Eminent  Dermatologists  test  leading  beauty  aids  on  the  faces  of  612 
women.    Actual  case  records  prove  superiority  of  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap. 

form.    Soothing  to  the  most  sensitive  skin. 


Take  case  No.  49  from  the  Chicago 
Clinic.  Physicians  found  her  skin  un- 
commonly dry.  She  followed  the  standard 
daily  ritual.  On  the  left  side  of  her  face  .  .  . 
her  usual  cleansing  method.  On  the  right 
side  .  .  .  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap.  At  the 
end  of  the  test,  doctors  reported  the  right 
side  distinctly  less  dry.  Complexion  clear. 
Texture  smooth  and  lovely. 

Some  women  say,  "  But  I  can't  use  soap  on 
my  face!"  Many  of  the  women  who  made 
this  test  had  been  of  that  opinion.  But 
they  discovered,  in  less  than  a  week,  that 
Woodbury's  is  more  than  a  soap.  That  it 
is  a  complete  beauty  treatment  ...  in  cake 


And  beautifying  ...  to  any  skin. 

At  all  drug  and  toilet  goods  counters.    Or 
mail  coupon  for  generous  sample. 

•  •  • 
"/  have  examined  the  statements  viade  in  this 
advertisement.  They  are  correct  and  in  accord 
with  the  reports  of  15  dermatologists  who  con- 
ducted the  comparative  tests  . . .  These  derma- 
tologists are  known  to  me  as  skin  specialists 
of  the  highest  professional  standing" 

(Signed) 


Jo^aMzc %7tU^&~. 


MAY    WE    SEND    YOU    DAINTY    SAMPLES? 

JOHN  H.  WOODBURY,  INC. 

S03    Alfred  Street,  Cincinnati,  Ohio.      If  you   live   in 

Canada,  address  John  H.  Woodhury,  Ltd.,  Perth,  Ont. 

Enclosed  find   icxf  for  trial  cake  of  Woodbury's  Facial 

Soap  and  generous  samples  of  two  Woodbury's  Creams 

and  Facial  Powder.  I  would  like  counsel  on  conditions 

checked  below: 

Oily  skin  □  Flabhy.skin     □  Sallow  skin  □ 

Dry  vkin  O  Coarsepores  Q  Pimples         □ 

Wrinkles  □  Blackheads     D 

A'anu- _ 


1931,  John  H.  Woodbury,  lnc 


Address 


They  Are  Holly- 
wood's Best  Known 
Unknowns 

1  CONTINUED  FKOU  PAGE  73  ] 


the  worst  of  'em  and  his  parents  and  those  of 
a  famous  French  actor  were  of  the  same  mind 
when  they  named  the  baby. 

Number  Nine:  You  saw  her  'way  back 
in  the  days  when  Von  Stroheim's  "Greed"  was 
making  producers  pull  out  their  hair.  She 
had  a  fat  part  in  "The  Merry-Go-Round"  but 
it  didn't  bring  her  the  fame  that  came  to 
several  of  her  fellow  players  in  that  opus. 
You  should  remember  her  in  "The  Wedding 
March,"  "Foolish  Wives"  and  as  the  nurse  in 
"The  Sacred  Flame."  Not  long  ago  you  won- 
dered who  she  was  when  she  appeared  as  the 
secretary  in  "Office  Wife"  and  she  brought 
notice  in  "The  Man  From  Blankley's."  Still 
going  strong  she  is  a  wow  as  Sally  Scrubl  s 
in  "The  Great  Meadow."  We  could  give  you 
a  hint  but  surely  in  her  case  you  won't  have 
any  difficulty  in  filling  in  D F ! 

Number  Ten:  Last  but  not  least — well 
rather  not — is  this  tough  looking  hombre  in 
the  ten  gallon  kelly.  State  in  "The  Xoose," 
in  evidence  in  both  "The  Virginian"  and  "The 
Texan,"  he  did  noble  execution  as  McDougal, 
the  mate,  in  "The  Delightful  Rogue,"  as  a 
member  of  the  gang  in  "The  Border  Legion," 
the  constable  in  "The  Old  Homestead."  in 
"A  Devil  with  Women"  and  some  umpty  ump 
others  during  the  past  twenty  years.  If  you're 
a  graybeard,  you'll  remember  him  as  one 
of  the  perils  in  the  old  Universal  serials,  too. 
When  it  comes  to  dialect  for  the  talkies  he 
spik's  dem  all.  You  know  Ed,  so  put  his 
last  name  down  and  let's  count  your  score. 

AND  there,  folks,  you  have  them,  Holly- 
wood's Best  Known  Unknowns.  Without 
them  the  motion  picture  business  would  be 
up  Salt  Creek  and  no  paddle.  They  are  more 
important  to  you  and  me  than  any  star  for 
a  star — pouf — can  be  made  in  ten  days,  the 
time  it  takes  to  make  a  batch  of  home-brew, 
while  only  experience,  knowledge  and  the 
magic  of  time  can  perfect  rare  vintages. 

And  now,  after  we've  practically  done  it 
for  you,  take  your  pencil  and  see  how  many 
of  them  you  can  name  before  you  turn  to 
page  131  for  the  right  answers. 


March 
Birthdays 

March    1 — John  Loder 
March    3 — Jean  Harlow 
March    3 — Edmund  Lowe 
March    4 — Dorothy  Mackaill 
March  11 — Lois  Moran 
March  15 — George  Sidney 
March  16 — Marion  Byron 
March  16 — Conrad  Nagel 
March  18 — Betty  Compson 
March  18 — Edward  Everett  Horton 
March  22 — Bernice  Claire 
March  23 — Robert  Ames 
March  23 — Joan  Crawford 
March  24 — Jameson  Thomas 
March  25— El  Brendel 
March  27 — Gloria  Swanson 
March  29 — Warner  Baxter 
March  29 — Wheezer 
March  30 — Anna  Q.  Nilsson 
March  31 — Eddie  Quillan 
March  31 — Victor  Varconi 


Kverv  advertisement  In  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Maoazwi  iok  March,  1931 


IO' 


SKINNER'S 


CREPES 
CREPE   SATINS 
GEORGETTES 
SHANTUNGS 
CHIFFONS 


For  the  woman  who  seeks 
unusual  beauty  of  fabric  — and 
the  wearing  quality  which  has 
made  SKINNER  the  most  fa- 
mous name   in   Silks. 

Skinner's 

Silks 


Obtainable    by    the    yard    at    leading    silk 

departments.   Also  in  ready-to-wear  dresses 

and  ensembles  at  smart  shops. 


This  afternoon  frock  is  fashioned  of  Skinner's  Crepe  Romaine.  with  o  touch  of  lace. 

tl  features  a  peptum  cut  in  one  with  a  front  panel.  A  simulated  bolero  in  the  form  of 

on  applied  wide  band  adds  to  its  charm. 


'LOOK  FOR  THE 


NAME 


I     N 


THE 


SELVAGE 


S!2i3:*^B.i:<i?i2U:«.'*w:<i:i:i4:*«»i:4i:i:i4:^^ 

WILLIAM      SKINNER     I      SONS     .     NEW      YORK      .     CIICIOO     .     lOITOl      .     r  II  I  L   V  n  E  L  P  It  I  A  S   V  V     F  R  A  N  ' '  I  s  C  O     .     .     .     ESTABLISHED 


k>4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


ovely  hair 

is  the  key  to 


f 


h. 


eminine  charm 

...  and  HOLD-BOBS  are  the  secret  of  a 
beautiful  hairdress!  An  adorable  face, 
faultless  skin  .  . .  how  often  these  girlish 
charms  are  spoiled  by  hair  that  falls  short 
of  perfection!  And  how  often  the  plainest 
of  features  are  glorified. ..made  truly  beau- 
tiful by  lovely  hair! 

The  most  becoming  hairdress  is  not  suf- 
ficient...you  must  be  sure  that  it  will  stay 
that  way.  HOLD-BOBS  will  keep  the 
most  wayward  hair,  whether  it  is  bobbed, 
long  or  growing,  in  place  all  day  long  and 
all  evening.  HOLD-BOBS  are  invisible. 
The  smooth  round  points  cannot  scratch. 
The  flexible  crimped  sides  of  HOLD-BOBS 
hold  fast . . .  HOLD-BOBS  don't  fall  out 

You  can  tell  HOLD-BOBS  by  their 
shape  and  by  the  gold  and  silver  metal 
foil  cards.  Sold  everywhere  at  10  cents. 
Send  for  the  new  booklet  on  Modern  Hair 
Culture,  and  supply  of  HOLD-BOBS  free. 

THE  HUMP  HAIRPIN  MFG.COMPANY 

(  Division  of  Chain  Store  Products  Corporation) 

Sol.  H.  Goldberg,  President 
1918-3o  Prairie  Ave.,  Dept.  173, Chicago,  Illinois 


THE  HUMP  HAIRPIN 

MANUFACTURING  CO. 

1918-36  Prairie  Avenue 

Dept.  173,  Chicago,  Illinois 
Please  send  me  the  booklet  on  Modern  Hair  Culture 
and  latest  hairdress  styles  and  FREE  sample  card  of  pins. 

Name 

Address 

City 


Short  Subjects 

of  the  Month 

TTERE  are  some  of  the  things  that  are  happening  in  the 
*■  -*-short  subject  field  this  month: 

Johnny  Hines  has  made  a  reappearance,  after  a  long  ab- 
sence. 

Mack  Sennett's  talking  comedies,  and  the  antics  of  Lloyd 
Hamilton,  seem  to  be  getting  better  right  along. 

And  the  new  monkey  comedy,  reviewed  below,  is  a  howl! 


-State- 


□  Blonde 


□  Brunette 


DANCE  HALL  MARGE 

Sennett — Educational 

Way  above  average  as  a  laugh-maker.  That 
grand  little  trouper,  Marjorie  Beebe,  is  great 
as  a  taxi  dancer,  gone  society,  who  is  trying  to 
escape  the  clutches  of  a  dastardly  butler,  played 
for  all  there  is  in  it  by  the  funny  Harry  Grib- 
bon.    Some  swell  under-water  scenes. 

NINE  NIGHTS  IN  A  BARROOM 

Tiffany 

Tiffany's  now-famous  chimps  are  up  to  their 
monkey-shines  again  in  this  screaming  bur- 
lesque on  the  old  play.  You'll  die  to  hear 
"Father,  dear  father,  come  home  with  me  now" 
in  the  chimpanzee  version.  The  human  dia- 
logue, dubbed  on,  is  fine.    You'll  roar. 

WE,  WE,  MARIE 

Universal 
Universal  is  still  using  the  "All  Quiet"  sets 
for  this  funny  number  in  the  series  of  Slim 
Summerville-Eddie  Gribbon  comedies.  Laugh- 
ter here  comes  from  action  and  not  dialogue, 
and  there's  plenty  of  funny  action.  You'll 
enjoy  seeing  little  Pauline  Garon  as  Marie. 

DON'T  LEAVE  HOME 
Educational 
Well,  if  here  isn't  Johnny  Hines!  The  little 
comic  with  the  big  grin  is  using  the  gags  that 
made  him  popular  during  his  starring  days  in 
the  silent  era,  and  getting  plenty  of  laughs. 
Most  of  the  comedy  concerns  Johnny  and  a 
baby — sometimes  genuine,  often  dummy. 

THE  LOVE  BARGAIN 
Mermaid — Educational 
This  is  a  fast  moving  comedy  filled  with  do- 
mestic complications,  broken  dishes  and  all 
the  dear  old  hokum  that  still  dredges  laughter. 
Bobby  Agnew,  masquerading  as  a  chauffeur  to 
win  the  girl  he  loves,  is  hired  by  Alberta  Vaughn 
and  Tyler  Brooke.    More  fun.' 

MICKEY'S  BARGAIN 

Darmour — Radio  Pictures 
Another  of  the  hilarious  series  based  on  Fon- 
taine Fox's  cartoons.  This  time  there's  a  lot 
of  laughable  nonsense  at  the  expense  of  all 
"covered  wagon"  pictures.  Mickey  and  the 
other  kids,  notably  tiny  Billy  Barty,  are  very 
funny,  and  the  gags  get  plenty  laughter. 

GIOVANNI  MARTINELLI 

Warners — Vila  plume  Variety 

Martinelli  made  one  of  the  first  Yitaphone 
shorts,  and  is  still  a  prominent  figure  on  the 
Warner  list  of  short  subjects.  Here,  instead 
of  appearing  in  a  scene  from  an  opera,  the  tenor 
sings  two  semi-popular  numbers.  "Love's  Gar- 
den of  Roses"  and  "Because." 


THE  CHISELERS 
Hal  Roach— M-G-M 
Laurel  and  Hardy,  the  goldurned  fools,  are 
at  it  again.  This  time  they  manage  to  ship 
their  wives  out  of  the  picture  so  they  can  make 
a  little  of  what  is  hopefully  called  whoopee. 
But  the  wandering  wives  get  back  in  time  to 
catch  the  boys  on  the  loose. 

MARRIAGE  ROWS 
Educational 
Lloyd  Hamilton  is  hitting  his  stride  in  talk- 
ing comedies,  and  it's  a  fast  one.  This  is  a 
daisy,  with  Ham  screamingly  funny  as  a  sus- 
picious husband  given  to  hysteria.  Who  should 
be  "the  other  man"  but  our  old  pal  Al  St.  John. 
You  really  shouldn't  miss  this  one. 

UNDER  A  COCK  EYED  MOON 
Pathc 

This  take-off  on  romantic  Western  pictures 
features  Si  Wills  and  Bob  Carney.  The  boys 
play  a  couple  of  Eastern  sapperinos  who  wan- 
der into  a  tough  Arizona  town  and  then  get 
rewards  for  unwittingly  capturing  the  worst 
boys  in  town.    Not  rib-splitting. 

THE  ITCHING  HOUR 
Darmour — Radio  Pictures 
When  a  comedy  has  Louise  Fazenda,  just 
how  much  more  does  it  need?  Well,  just 
enough  comic  situations  to  give  Louise  a  chance 
to  strut  her  copious  stuff.  Here  she  and  her 
fellow  actors  spend  the  night  in  a  haunted 
hotel.  Shocks,  shivers  and  lots  of  laughs.  Rare 
nonsense. 

A  N  YTIIING  B  UT  HA  M 
Paramount 
Smith  and  Dale,  the  well-known  vaudeville 
comedians,  feature  this  short  comedy  as  a  trust- 
ing butcher  and  a  slick  banker  who  gets  the 
meat-cutter's  money.  Two  formerly  promi- 
nent girls  in  support — Betty  Blythe  and  Ger- 
trude Mudge.    It  gets  some  laughter. 

THREE  HOLLYWOOD  GIRLS 

Educational — Ideal 
A  two-reeler  with  pace  and  dialogue  that 
put  many  a  feature  in  the  shade.  Leota  Lane, 
Rita  Flynn  and  Phyllis  Crane  are  the  girls. 
Aided  by  Eddie  Xugent's  flip  antics,  it's  a 
travesty  of  girls  who  get  to  Hollywood  via 
beauty  contests. 

IN  OLD  MAZUMA 
Universal 
Another  burlesque  of  Western  romantic  mel- 
odrama, with  Charlie  Murray  and  George  Sid- 
ney in  the  leading  roles.  Murray  plays  the 
army  sergeant  hunting  for  "The  Cisco  Kid" — 
that's  Sidney,  playing  the  Mex  bad  man.  The 
boys  don't  do  any  too  well  in  this  one 


Eur-    r.iK«rt]?ement  i)i  rilOIOl'LAY  MAGAZINE  is  i.uaranfeed. 


PHOTO?!  l.    M  \c\/im     i  OH    M  Utl  n. 


10. 


Can 


oveuness  oe 


b 


tl 


us 


simp 


e 


? 


It  seems  so  easy  for  some  women  always  to  look  t h«-ir  very  best 
...  to  attract  admiring  attention  wherever  they  go.. .  to  know  jusl 
what  to  do  to  magnify  their  natural  charm. 

And  their  Becrel  really  is  quite  simple  Merely  careful  atten- 
tion, every  morning,  every  evening,  every  night  to  just  a  few 
all-important  (hut  easily-neglected)  details.  For  instance! 


—he'll 

water. 


Lot I'liness  of  face.  How  can  your  skin  he 
radiantly  clear  unless  it  is  really  clean? 
How  can  your  new  make-up  look  its  best 
unless  all  the  old  is  first  removed?  The 
simple  answer  is  frequent  washing  with 
soap  and  warm  water.  Ask  any  doctor 
tell  you  there  is  no  substitute  for  soap  and 
For  many  helpful  suggestions  use  coupon  below. 


Loveliness  of  hair.  Would  you  have  soft, 
smooth,  lustrous  hair?  Lovely  hair  that 
glints  and  glistens?  Then  don't  let  grime 
kill  its  beauty.  Shampoo  frequently.  It's 
the  most  important  single  thing  in  caring 
for  the  hair.  Check  up  on  this  matter  at 
regular  intervals!    Learn  the  fine  art  of  shampooing. 

Loveliness  of  clothes.    Uter  all,  the  best 

way  to  look  smart  and   neat   and   immac- 
ulate i-  actual!]   to  he  that  way.  Each 

time  \oii  dre--.  examine  e\erv  garment 

critically.   Collars,  cutis,  lingerie,  stock- 
ings, handkerchiefs,  gloves     watch  them 
all  very,  very  carefully.    Put  on  nothing  that  isn't  crispl) 

clean.    Read  our  free  booklet  for  further  BUggestions, 


CLEANLINESS     INSTITUTE 

Established  to  promote  public  uelfare 

by  teaching  the   value  of  cleanliness 


/  Loveliness  of  hantls.Yuu  admire  the  soft, 
smooth  whiteness  of  attractive  hands.  But 
remember  that  hands  don't  stay  beautiful 
without  attention.  Manicure  your  nails 
every  week.  Soap-scrub  them  every  day. 
\\  ash  your  hands  frequently  and  always 

do  it  carefully!  These,  and  a  few  other  simple  things,  will 

do  much  to  make  \our  hands  more  lovely. 

[ml  most  important.  Never  expect  to 
look  your  ven,  best  unless  you  have  just 
stepped  out  of  the  bath  tub!  In  addi- 
tion to  real  cleanliness  the  bath  brings 
new  poise  and  Belf-assu ranee  . .  .gives your 
personality  a  better  chance.  Beyond  doubt, 
the  hath  is  the  basis  of  all  good  grooming! 


This  free  booklet  tells  all.  Above  we  have 
suggested  several  of  the  "essential  little 
details."'  Would  you  like  to  know  the 
others?. .  .  And  more  about  those  touched 
upon?  Then  send  for  The  Thirty  Day 
[jneliness  Test ...  a  practical, helpful  book- 
let. Easy  instructions  ...  and  a  definite 
program  to  follow.  Free  for  the  asking. 


i'j-ji 


CLEANLINESS  INSTITUTE,  Dept.  N  \ 
*o  East  17th  Street.  New  York.  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  free  of  all  cost  "TheThirtr  DaT  I.oTeline.#  T*-«t." 


When  you  write  to  »dTertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  1IAGAZTXE. 


I  06 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


Still  Kicking  Around 


Beauty  tells 
Beaut  i).., 

a  ww  coMwtixMM.  that 

tuon'T 
mfiK6 

LASHES  BrslTTL€" 

Instinctively— women  know:  nothing 

flatters  as  much  as  the  fringe  of  dark  lashes 
around  sparkling  eyes . . .  And  yet — ordinary 
cosmetiques  —  though  they  darken  lashes — 
so  often  give  an  unnatural  and  "theatrical" 
effect.  So  often  lashes  become  coarse  and 
brittle. . .  Perhaps,  therefore,  you've  hesitated 
to  use  these  preparations  ...  If  so,  the  new 
Winx  with  its  Double  Treatment  Formula 
is  made  just  for  you...  First,  it  darkens  and 
beautifies  lashes.  It  makes  them  look  long 
and  soit.  The  effect  is  smart — yes — but 
always  discreet  and  natural.  Then — Winx 
actually  so/tens  lashes.  Brittle  or  coarse 
laslics  are  impossible. ..Try  the  new  Winx... 
now  lor  sale  at  department  and  drugstores. 


The  new  Winx  (with  Vie  Double 
Treatment)  comes  in  two  forms. 
Liquid  is  absolutely  waterproof. 
Cake  is  now  packed  in  a  smart, 
silscry  compact  which  fits  into  the 
flattest  bag.  Winx  is  easy  to  use. 


For 
\,ovely 
hashes 


!  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  39  ] 


some  of  the  others,  or  replace  them.  They 
even  wear  out,  but  as  we  tried  to  say,  while 
being  so  rudely  interrupted,  we  improve  with 

"Every  patch  adds  distinction  and  character. 
Every  new  sole  lends  poise  and  equilibrium 
that  we  assure  you  comes  in  quite  handy  when 
Charlie  makes  one  of  his  funny  skids  around 
a  corner." 

"You  must  have  had  quite  a  few  soles  dur- 
ing your  career,"  I  queried,  "for  if  my  memory 
serves  me  correctly,  every  picture  contains 
several  such  skids." 

"\\  7 ELL,  let's  see.     Not  as  many  as  one 

**  might  suppose. 

"We're  of  hardy  stock,  you  know,  only  the 
finest  materials  used — we  couldn't  have  had 
more  than  nine  soles. 

"But  perhaps  you  shouldn't  mention  that. 
It  would  sound  too  much  like  we  were  made 
of  catgut — er — we  mean  skin." 

"You  were  given  those  soles  and  the  other 
repairing  was  done  here  at  the  studio?"  I 
asked. 

"No,"  they  answered,  "there's  a  little  old- 
fashioned  cobbler  on  Highland  Avenue  who 
acts  as  our  family  doctor. 

"He's  a  real  artist,  too — delights  in  his  work 
and  craftsmanship  and  knows  all  our  idiosyn- 
crasies. 

"Every  patch  and  sole  we've  had  has  been 
designed  and  applied  by  him. 

"No  one  else  could  take  his  place  as  far  as 
w  ;'re  concerned. 

"It  might  seem  sentimental,  but  it's  worth  a 
great  deal  to  see  his  face  light  up  whenever 
the  boss  takes  us  to  him.  He  always  carries 
us  there,  himself." 

"That's  interesting,"  I  said,  "and,  now, 
won't  you  tell  me  something  about  your  work? 
You  must  have  had  some  very  entertaining 
experiences,  been  lots  of  places  and  seen  many 
things." 

They  leaned  towards  each  other,  loosened 
their  laces,  another  eye,  and  smiled  know- 
ingly as  if  to  say,  "And  how!" 

"Millions  have  laughed  at  us,  doing  our 
funny  little  walk,  or  comic  kicks  and  antics, 
but  it  is  impossible  they  could  have  gotten 
any  more  laughs  out  of  us  than  we've  had 
ourselves. 

"When  we  were  brand-new,  it  was  such 
fun  with  Charlie  practicing  his  funny  walk. 
We  would  get  tangled  quite  a  bit.  That  was 
because  we  were  so  loose  on  his  feet,  we 
suppose. 

"He  ordinarily  wears  a  number  6C  while 
we  are  number  12AA.    Quite  a  difference. 

"It  is  really  surprising  how  adept  he  has 
become  at  handling  such  a  discrepancy. 
But  we  had  hundreds  of  squeaky  chuckles 
tripping  him  and  getting  all  mixed  up  with 
each  other,  sometimes  intentionally,  before  he 
got  so  good. 

"/'-'HARLIE  must  have  been  quite  pleased 

^-'that  he  had  made  us  so  large  when  he  first 
began  throwing  things  over  his  shoulder  and 
kicking  them  with  that  little  back  flip,  for 
if  we  had  been  smaller  he  would  have  missed 
more  often. 

"Incidentally,  that  trick  and  the  skids 
around  corners  get  more  laughs  from  the  kids 
than  any  others.  The  grown-ups  laugh,  too, 
but  they  seem  to  enjoy  the  subduing  of  dignity 
more. 

"They  laugh  mostwhen  the  boss  plants  us  in 
the  seat  of  a  policeman's  pants  or  when  we 
trip  a  haughty  lady. 

"It's  not  so  much  fun,  though,  to  kick  a 
policeman.  In  the  pictures  they  always  seem 
to  be  unaware  that  they  are  going  to  be 
kicked. 


"But  just  between  us,  they're  always  pre- 
pared for  it  with  some  kind  of  hard  substance 
or  padding. 

"That's  one  of  the  reasons  why  our  toes  are 
so  scuffed  and  worn  looking. 

"We've  worked  in  nearly  forty  pictures. 
We  have  helped  form  plots  for  many  of  them, 
too,"  they  jubilantly  declared  as  they  gave 
the  others  a  withering  glance. 

"During  production  of  all  the  pictures  there 
are  many  story  conferences.  They're  really 
funnier  than  the  pictures  themselves.  Several 
executives  gather  in  a  room  with  the  boss. 
They  make  suggestions  for  'gags,'  each  one 
thinking  everybody  else's  suggestion  is  terrible 
and  sometimes  many  angry  words  are  ex- 
changed. 

"At  these  times,  when  they're  all  about 
ready  to  give  up  for  the  day,  Charlie  puts 
us  on,  gets  into  character  and  soon  there's  a 
brilliant  idea. 

"•"THERE  is  another  pair  of  shoes  just  like  us 

■*■  — that  is,  they  resemble  us.  They're  our 
doubles.  We're  probably  the  only  shoes  in 
history  who  have  understudies.  They  are 
used  when  Charlie  falls  into  water  or  takes 
some  hazardous  chance  which  might  mean 
destruction  for  us. 

"They  are  used,  too,  for  exhibition  purposes 
and  have  travelled,  as  our  proxies,  all  over  the 
world  for  show  purposes. 

"The  only  time  we  have  been  replaced  by 
shoes  other  than  our  doubles  was  in  'The 
Gold  Rush.'  The  boss  dressed  up  in  one 
sequence  of  that  picture  and  wore  patent 
leather  shoes. 

"He's  stuck  to  us  ever  since  so  they  evidently 
weren't  so  good. 

'"The  Gold  Rush'  was  the  hardest  picture 
we've  made.  Most  of  our  time  is  spent  bask- 
ing in  California  sunshine,  but  we  left  that 
behind  for  several  weeks  of  hardship  when  we 
went  on  location  in  the  High  Sierras  for  snow 
scenes. 

"We  never  did  get  acclimated,  and  aged 
more  in  the  snow  in  that  short  time  than  at 
any  other  period. 

"It  resulted  in  a  breakdown  and  we  spent 
several  weeks  afterward  in  our  Highland 
Avenue  hospital. 

"That  picture  was  a  nightmare,  but  the 
others  make  up  for  it.  In  them  we  have 
visited  almost  every  conceivable  type  of  place. 
We  have  walked  in  the  mud  and  slime  of 
war  trenches  and  have  trod  marble  floors  of 
palaces;  we  have  felt  plowed  ground  and  the 
cobblestones  of  city  alleys. 

"What  more  could  one  ask  in  the  way  of 
variety?  Yet  in  addition  to  all  this,  we 
accompanied  the  boss  on  a  European  tour. 
We  stayed  in  the  Kaiser's  suite  at  a  Berlin 
hotel,  in  the  royal  suite  aboard  the  S.  S. 
Berengaria,  and  lived  in  palatial  apartments  in 
Ritz-Carltons  and  Claridges  all  over  the  world. 

"We're  just  a  pair  of  old  shoes,  in  one  sense 
of  the  word,  but  we've  lived — and  suffered. 
Other  parts  of  Charlie's  wardrobe  may  go  to 
museums  or  collectors,  but  he'll  never  part 
with  us." 

A  WARDROBE  attendant  walked  in  about 
■**■  this  time  and  they  started  to  lace  them- 
selves preparatory  to  going  to  jail — for  a  scene 
in  "City  Lights,"  of  course — 

"Just  one  more  question,  please,"  I  pleaded 
as  thev  started  away  with  that  funny  little 
shuffle' 

"When  are  you  going  to  make  a  talking 
picture?" 

"That  will  never  be."  they  threw  back  over 
their  instep.  "We  might  be  old,  but  there  are 
too  many  squeaks  left  in  us  yet  to  record 
well." 


Ewry  advertisement  in  I'lIOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE  i<  guarantied. 


Photoplay  M\«.\/im   rot  Masch,  i     I 

$2050.00  IN  70  CASH  PRIZES 

AND  SOME  OtXi:    W  ILL    \\  I  \    si  ooo.oo 

Write  a  letter  to  enter  in  this  month's 
"Thank  Yon   Letter*   Contest 


i  - 


"Mannus,*1  once  laid  .1  »rise  man,  '  'are 
the  li:i |> [> %  ways,  of  doing  things.*1  The) 
are  the  cream  on  the  milk  of  lnmi.ni 
kindneaa  .  .  .  the  onlj  courtesy  thai  eren 
kings  ran  show. 

\nil  now  thai  fashion  brings  ■  statelier 
decorum,  ten  years  of  calls  thai  we 
should  hare  made,  ten  years  <>i  letters 
we  onghl  to  bare  written,  rise  up  to  re- 
proach us.  For  in  tlii-*  mode  BO  newly 
ours,  these  pleasanl  formalities  have  an 
established  and  historic  place. 

The  note  of  acknowledgment,  brief  but 
sincere,  is  one  of  our  most  gracious  mani- 
festations of  the  art  of  manners.  It  has  a 
cbarm  not  ine;i>ured  b>  il^  length,  not 
conditioned  bj  its  occasion.  It  may,  it 
Mm  please,  vividly  and  truly  reflect  a 
portrait  of  it-  writer.  \ml  whether  you 
nave  received  a  glass  of  home-made  jelly 
or  a  silver  coffee  service,  you  very  much 
want  the  giver  to  realize  the  warm  glow 
of  appreciation  that  was  yours  when  you 
opened  the  gift. 

For  the  best  letter  sent  in  to  the  "Thank 
\  ou  better"  Contest,  Eaton.  Crane  & 
Pike  Co.  offer  a  firs!  prize  of  $150,  and 
22  other  ea>b  prizes.  You  may  win  a 
total  of  $1000.  Read  the  rule-  below,  and 
watch  for  the  final  contesl  nexl  month 
sponsored  by  John  Held,  Jr. 


iou  icill  be  quite  particular  about  the  paper  on 
tchich  you  acknoirledge  a  gift.  It  must  not  be  f<>o 
casual  .  .  .  nor  yet  too  formal.  Eaton's  Highland 
fin  an  and  Eaton's  Highland  Vellum  are  suitable  in 
every  ir«iv.  Men  and  icomen.  alike,  prefer  them. 
50  ccnr.i  »<>  $.1.30.  tchercicr  social  If  lioiHwj  U  point. 

Eaton.   Crane  &  Pike  Co..  Pit  tafteltl.    V-;^. 


CLIFFTOP 

NVACK,    NEW    YORK 


y^-  ou»jt_  Ola>.  cx^^JLX^  cL»- 


\sl^jA  A>  Loir—  °^    "tLJ1    C^W^^cr^   ^  O^WjLaj-. 


.-ULjl. 


cKjtr^b 


A-*OT> — 


H\-cj^- M*  -XaTO-* — 


RULES  OF  THE  CONTEST 


Dirinc  February.  March  and  April. 
Eaton,  Crane  &  Pike  Co.  are  offering 
prises  for  a  particular  kind  of  letter. 
For  March  they  will  award  prizes  in  the 
"Thank  You  Letter"  Conte-t  as  fol- 
lows: fir~t  prize.  $150;  second  prize. 
$50;  third  prize.  $25;  five  fourth  prises, 
$15  each:  five  fifth  prizes.  $10  each: 
ten  sixth  prizes.  S5  each;  100  seventh 
prizes,  one  box  of  Eaton's  Highland 
Vellum  each. 

An  additional  grand  prize  of  $850 
will  be  offered  for  the  best  letter  writ- 
ten during  the  entire  series,  making  it 
possible  for  some  one  to  win  $1000! 

All  letters  in  the  "Thank  You  Letter*" 
Contest  must  be  in  the  mails  bv  mid- 
night of  March  31.  1931.  Each  letter 
■art  be  addressed  to  Contesl  Editor, 
Eaton,  Crane  &  Pike  Co..  Phtsfield, 
M.i--..  and  marked  plainly  "Thank  You 

EATON'S 


Letter"  Contest.  You  may  write  as 
many  letters  a*  yon  wi-h.  Thi-  i-  the 
second  of  three  consecutive  monthly 
contests. 

Your  full  name  and  addre--  tnu-t 
appeal  on  the  rererse  -ide  of  the  sheet 

or  at  the  bottom  of  the  last  page  of 
your  letter.  Letters  may  be  typed  or  in 
longhand,  There  is  no  limit  to  the 
length  of  the  letters. 

The  winners  will  be  announced  in 
the  October  issue  of  this  magazine.  In 
ease  of  a  tie  for  any  award,  the  full 
amount  of  the  award  will  be  given  to 
each  of  the  tying  contestants.  The  let- 
ters will  be  judged  solely  on  what  you 
say.    No  letters  will  be  returned. 

Final  judges:  Emily  Post.authoritv  on 
social  ■sage;  Mice  Duer  Miller,  author 
of  "Green  Isle"  and  other  novels  and 
stories:  and  John  Held.  Jr. 

HIGHLAND  VELLUM 
HIGHLAND     LINEN 


When  you  *Ti:e  to  ijrenisers  please  mention  rnOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


Ybry,  Inc.,  Dept.  P-3,  50  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City 
Pleose  send  trial  size  Ybry  Lipstick — 10c  enclosed 


My  hair  is My  eyes  ore.. 


Name. 


Girls'  Problems 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  18  ] 


of  the  koocI  preparations  for  that  purpose,  set 
your  wave  carefully  with  a  comb  and  your  fin- 
gers,orhave  the  hairdresser  do  it  for  you, if  you 
prefer.  But  the  regular  brushing  will  smooth 
your  hair  and,  if  you  brush  in  the  direction  of 
the  wave,  pushing  the  wave  up  with  your 
hands,  it  will  correct  that  "frizzed"  look. 

I  am  glad  that  the  colors  I  suggested  suit 
you  so  perfectly.  They  were  carefully  chosen 
for  your  type. 

Connie: 

Naturally,  the  young  man  who  is  your  tutor 
does  not  ask  if  he  can  call  in  the  evening  or 
take  you  out.  He  is  old  enough  and  wise 
enough  to  realize  that  you  are  still  a  child,  in 
the  first  place,  and  that  he  would  be  violating 
his  position  by  putting  your  relationship  on  a 
social  basis.  He  probably  thinks  of  you  as  an 
agreeable  and  interesting  student,  and  you  can 
please  him  most  by  being  an  apt  pupil.  Put 
away  these  thoughts  of  attracting  him  in  a 
romantic  way,  unless  you  want  him  to  classify 
you  as  a  silly  girl  whose  mind  is  not  on  her 
lessons. 

A  few  years  from  now  there  can  be  plenty 
of  romance  to  satisfy  your  heart,  but  don't 
try  to  grow  up  too  fast. 

Madeline  13.: 

Your  weight  is  correct,  Madeline,  and  your 
measurements  are  well  proportioned.  But,  if 
you  think  that  your  hips  could  be  slimmer,  why 
don't  you  practice  the  simple  hip-reducing  ex- 
ercises in  my  booklet?  If  you  haven't  already 
asked  for  it,  just  send  me  a  stamped,  self- 
addressed  envelope  with  your  request,  and  it 
will  be  forwarded  promptly.  Even  if  the  exer- 
cises do  not  reduce  your  weight,  which  isn't 
necessary  in  your  case,  they  will  improve  the 
line  of  your  hips,  and  that's  the  result  you 
want.  Don't  let  the  teasing  of  the  girl  you 
mention  annoy  you.  I'm  sure  it's  all  in  fun, 
and  if  you  don't  let  it  ruffle  your  temper  she 
will  soon  get  tired  of  it  and  stop. 


Your  skin  is  evidently  rather  oily.  Watch 
your  diet,  use  plenty  of  cold  water  on  your 
face,  and  a  mild  astringent  if  you  find  it  neces- 
sary, either  daily  or  several  times  a  week.  No, 
I  repeat  that  drinking  a  normal  amount  of 
water  is  not  a  flesh-builder  but  an  important 
factor  in  weight  reducing,  and  also  in  main- 
taining a  good  complexion. 

Just  Another  Girl: 

And  a  foolish  one!  You  are  really  having  a 
good  time  feeling  sorry  for  yourself,  sitting 
back  in  your  corner  and  thinking  how  "differ- 
ent" you  are  from  the  other  girls  who  are  hav- 
ing the  dates  and  the  fun  that  belong  to  girl- 
hood. 

If  you  wanted  to  have  friends  among  boys 
as  much  as  you  say  you  do,  there  would  be  no 
excuse  for  not  having  them,  with  your  oppor- 
tunities to  meet  boys  and  invite  them  to  your 
home.  Unconsciously,  perhaps,  you  are  culti- 
vating an  outward  reserve  and  indifference  that 
you  do  not  feel,  by  turning  all  your  thoughts 
upon  yourself. 

Make  up  your  mind  you  are  going  to  join  in 
all  the  fun,  just  as  the  others  do.  When  you 
meet  a  boy  who  attracts  you,  be  friendly  to 
him.  Let  him  know  that  he  is  welcome  at 
your  home,  and  he  will  probably  ask  for  a 
definite  date.  Then  make  him  feel  at  home 
when  he  comes,  by  not  straining  too  hard  to 
entertain  him. 

The  way  to  achieve  popularity  is  by  culti- 
vating every  bit  of  personal  charm  you  can, 
day  in  and  day  out,  year  in  and  year  out,  and 
then  by  being  your  own  charming,  natural  self 
when  you  are  with  anyone,  men  or  women, 
one  man  or  one  woman.  Charm  isn't  some- 
thing you  can  take  out  of  a  box  and  don  for  a 
date.  You  probably  have  a  lot  more  charm 
than  you  realize,  so  don't  stifle  it  by  artifi- 
ciality. 

I'm  answering  your  letter  at  such  length  be- 
cause it  is  typical  of  so  many  others  I  get,  and 
I  hope  this  bit  of  advice  will  help  you. 


Address. 


When  the  young  folks  really  fell  in  love.  Kenneth  MacKenna  and  Kay 
Francis  met  six  years  ago,  while  on  the  stage,  but  they  didn't  really  take 
it  seriously  until  they  played  together  in  "The  Virtuous  Sin,"  from  which 
this  is  a  scene.  And  they  were  married  in  mid-January.  Moral— if  you 
like  a  girl,  play  opposite  her  in  a  picture.  Evidently  it  won't  be  long ! 


Even'  advertisement  in  riIOTOri..\Y  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


PHOTOPLAY    M\'.\/im    km   Makch,   1931 


I  ()( 


A  GREAT  STORY  COMES  THROUGH! 


Earth-shaking  in  its 
Grandeur!  A  Titanic 
Canvas  Sprung  to  Life! 
When  it  sweeps  to  the 
screen  a  new  day  dawns 
in  motion  picture  history! 

AAA 

"THE  BIRTH  OF  A  NATION" 
"THE  FOUR  HORSEMEN" 

And  Now  Comes 


EDNA 

FERBER'S 

Epic   of   Empire 


Down  a  Hundred  Miles  of  Raw  Frontier 
Swept  a  Human  Avalanche! 


Fifty  thousand  land  hungry  souls  seeking  a 
handful  of  Earth  they  could  call  their  own! 
The  weak  faltered . . .  the  sick  died . . .  the  strong 
swept  on  to  transform  a  wilderness  into  an 
Empire  in  a  day!  History  has  never  written 
a  more  dramatic  chapter  than  the  Oklahoma 
land  rush  of  '89!  Glamour  and  splendor! 
Courage  and  valor!  Romance  and  tragedy 


crowded  into  blazing  days  of  battle  and  nights 
of  love  and  adventure!  A  panorama  of  days 
when  Yancey  Cravat,  two-gun  poet  in  buck- 
skins, roamed  the  West  ...  a  Titan  of  Empire 
while  around  him  whirled  the  giant  forces 
that  shook  the  Earth  as  Civilization  was  born 
from  a  Wanton  Frontier] 


RKO  RADIO  PICTURE  with  RICHARD  DIX,  IRENE  DUNNE,  ESTELLE  TAYLOR,  WM.  COLLIER,  Jr., 
▲     A     NANCE  O'NEILL  and  Thousands  of  Others.     A     A      Directed  by  WESLEY  RUGGLES     A     A 


When  you  write  to  tdTertisers  rlc»s*  menMnn  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZrXE. 


(Jiand±j 
to  m  bioua  of 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


Gleari 

quick-dryings 

[otion-j 

...1$  NOT  STICKY  OR  GREASY 

It  taiies  out  a  moment  a  day  to 
keep  your  bauds  ana  skin 
smooth,  white  ana  lovely  -with 
Cbamberlain  s  Hand  Lotion. 
Requiring  no  bothersome  mas- 
sage, the  modern  liquid  pene- 
trates quickly  and  dries  almost 
instantly,  guarding  the  pores  like 
an  "invisible  glove.  It  is  not  the 
least  bit  sticky,  greasy  or  gummy. 
You  11  like  the  orange  blossom 
fragrance.  Hands  are  never  rough 
Or  red  from  household  tasks  or 
■weather  when  you  use  a  lew 
drops  several  times  during  the 
day,  and  just  before  going  to  bed. 
And  it  s  an  ideal  powder  base. 
You  11  find  Chamberlain  s  at 
your  drug  or  department  store  in 
two  sizes,  50c  and  $1.00. 


Or,  send  four  cencs  in  stamps  to  cover 
mailing  costs  and  we  11  gladly  send  our 
purse  size  (a  week's  supply)  FREE. 
Address,  Department  22,  Chamberlain 
Laboratories,  Des  Moines,  Iowa. 


Chamberlains 

HAND  LOTION 


Gloria's  "Hank"  Rebels! 


[  CONTINUED  FKOM  PAGE  60  ] 


in  this  country  sufficiently  important  to 
occupy  his  attention." 

And  again,  "Oh,  Henri  likes  America,  but 
the  adulation  I  receive  is  all  bewildering  to 
him." 

And  again,  "I  like  Henri  and  appreciate  the 
difficulties  in  being  married  to  me.  I  am  so  de- 
voted to  my  career  that  my  first  interests  are 
naturally  in  my  screen  work." 

And  if  you  discover  in  these  remarks  a 
patronizing  attitude — make   the   most  of  it. 

For  the  trouble  had  undoubtedly  begun  long 
before  Constance  Bennett  came  into  the 
picture. 

Y\  7HEN  Gloria  made  arrangements  to  work 
*»  at  the  Pathe  Studios,  Henri  was  given,  in 
France,  a  job  with  Pathe.  Just  what  his 
position  was  nobody  was  ever  quite  sure. 
Hollywood  said  it  was  sort  of  a  pension  job  to 
keep  him  happy  because  he  was  Gloria  Swan- 
son's  husband.  The  Marquis,  himself,  knows 
that  he  got  no  credit  for  what  he  did  for 
Pathe,  yet  he  turned  several  neat  business 
deals,  including  the  signing  of  Franz  Lehar, 
composer  of  "The  Merry  Widow,"  at  a 
ridiculously  low  salary,  after  the  musician  had 
sworn  that  he  would  never  work  in  America. 

He  also  signed  Constance  Bennett,  and  the 
results  of  her  picture  work  have  filled  her 
studio's  coffers  with  pure  gold.  Oh,  Henri 
worked  in  France,  but  nobody  would  believe  it. 
Gloria,  it  was  thought,  had  engineered  the  job 
for  him,  merely  to  give  him  something  to  do. 

Upon  the  completion  of  "The  Trespasser," 
Gloria  went  to  Europe  in  order,  she  said,  to 
bring  Henri  back  to  Hollywood  with  her.  But 
she  returned  alone.  The  revolt,  you  see,  was 
beginning. 

Shortly  thereafter  Henri,  himself,  arrived  in 
Hollywood.  He  was  a  day  in  town  before 
Gloria  knew  where  he  was  stopping.  The 
situation  caused  her,  I'm  sure,  no  little  em- 
barrassment. Not  having  conferred  with  him 
she  had  nothing  to  tell  reporters.  When  they 
did,  at  last,  get  together  it  was  announced  that 
they  were  to  have  separate  establishments  and 
remain  the  best  of  friends. 

It  was  a  difficult  situation  all  'round  and 
took  the  most  Continental  of  manners  to  handle 
it  with  tact.  She  invited  the  Marquis,  who 
was  still,  you  remember,  her  husband,  to 
attend  a  small  dinner  party  at  her  home.  She 
invited  him  as  one  would  ask  a  friend.     He 


arrived  after  most  of  the  guests  were  assembled. 
He  kissed  her  hand  punctiliously  and  they  all 
went  in  to  dinner. 

During  the  meal,  friends  noticed  that  Gloria 
looked  at  him  with  wide,  tragic  eyes  which,  of 
course,  may  have  been  imagination.  Maybe 
not.  The  fact  remains  that  when  they  were 
married  they  loved  each  other.  Yet,  by  her 
own  admission,  no  man  can  ever  completely 
nil  Gloria's  life. 

When  the  dinner  was  over,  Henri  kissed 
Gloria's  hand,  thanked  her  for  a  nice  time  (or 
whatever  a  Marquis  would  say  upon  such  an 
occasion)  and  bade  each  guest  good  evening. 

A  few  weeks  later  the  divorce  was  filed.  It 
was  then  that  Gloria  said  perhaps  Hank  would 
return  to  France. 

But  he  didn't.  Instead,  he  remained  to  work 
and  he  got  the  position  on  his  own,  sold  him- 
self as  a  man  capable  of  handling  a  job  and 
not  as  the  husband  of  Gloria  Swanson. 

So  he  will  remain  in  Hollywood — a  town  he 
once  hated. 

"Of  course  I  hated  it,"  he  says,  "when  I 
didn't  have  any  place  in  it.  But  when  I'm 
working  I  love  it.  Everybody  has  been  so 
splendid  here  at  the  studio.  Naturally,  all 
this  publicity  has  been  embarrassing — but  one 
can't  help  that.  For  various  reasons  I  couldn't 
find  work  before,  but  now  I  have  this  and  I'm 
trying  to  do  my  best  and  to  make  myself  a 
workman.  In  Europe  I  got  no  credit  for 
anything  I  did.  But  I  know  that  now  it  is 
different." 

"L_riS  first  job  was  the  French  version  of  "The 
-tJ-Royal  Bed."  He  finished  it  two  days 
before  schedule,  and  under  cost.  He  realizes 
that  in  order  to  make  any  money  on  foreign 
versions  he  must  make  them  as  cheaply  as 
possible.  His  ideas  are  sound  and  concise. 
Working  hard  all  day,  every  day,  is  easier  than 
being  married  to  a  great  picture  star.  And 
his  first  French  version  was  roundly  applauded 
at  a  big  Hollywood  theater. 

As  for  Constance  Bennett,  with  whom  he  is 
always  seen  and  with  whom  he  appeared  at  a 
night  club  the  day  his  divorce  was  filed,  she  is 
triumphant  over  his  success.  She  advises 
him  and  helps  him  whenever  she  can.  She  is 
proud  that  he  is  making  his  own  film  record. 

As  for  Gloria,  she  refuses  to  talk.  She  feels, 
no  doubt,  that  everything  that  was  to  be  said 
has  been  said. 


vjhe  Invisible  Qloze" 


Barberton,  Ohio 

"Close  that  door  when  you  come 
in!  Goodnight — you  kids  act  like 
some  cows  in  a  barn!" 

I  looked  up  from  my  reading,  "My 
heavens,  what's  the  matter  with  the 
old  man?" 

"Aw,  he's  lost  his  sense  of  humor," 
growled  my  brother. 

I  glanced  at  Paw  and  mentally  con- 
cluded he  didn't  have  a  sense  of 
humor  to  begin  with.  Never  once 
had  I  heard  him  laugh.  Sullen  and 
gloomy,  a  smile  with  him  was  a  rare 


thing.  Well,  he  needed  a  tonic,  and 
he  wasn't  going  to  get  it  in  spoonfuls 
either! 

The  next  night,  much  against  his 
will,  I  hustled  him  down  to  see  a 
talkie  comedy.  To  tell  the  truth,  I 
don't  know  what  I  got  the  biggest 
kick  from,  the  play  or  Paw's  hilarious 
roars.  Even  a  couple  of  days  after 
the  play,  Paw  was  as  amiable  as  a 
lamb. 

Net  result:  It  might  have  been  his 
first  play,  but  it  is  not  going  to  be  his 
last!  May  Woods 


Every  advertisement  in  rilOTOI'LAY  MAGAZINE  is  puaranteed. 


Photoplai   Magazini  fob  March,  1931 


i  i  i 


ANNOUNCING  THE  NEW  1931  PROGRAM 
FOR  THE  CORD  FRONT  DRIVE 

In  keeping  with  our  long  standing  policy,  we  are  again  able  to 
make  the  public  the  beneficiary  of  tin-  savings  obtainable 
through  better  manufacturing  methods  and  greater  buying 
power.  I  or  the  first  time,  a  Cord  Front-Drive  car  i*  now 
offered  to  a  larger  market.  Owners  of  the  Cord  Front- 
Drive  will  tell  you  it  is  the  finest  automobile  in  the  world. 
Nothing  less  than  a  totally  new  kind  of  motoring  could 
make  possible  the  successful  in\asion  of  the  Cord  into  the 
fine  car  field.  Its  sales  in  its  first  \ear  represent  nearl\ 
twenty  per  cent  of  all  car>  Bold  above  $3000.  The  (lord 
became  the  model  for  the  entire  automobile  industry  to 
pattern  after.  It  is  this  ear.  which  i>  the  Standard  of 
fine  ear  \  allies,  with  it-  exclusive  front-drive  advantages, 
which  we  are  now  able  to  offer  for  the  $0  Q  f\  lT 
first    time    at    the    extremely    low     price    of      ^j  l)  y  «J 

BROUGHAM  S2395  -  SEDAN  $2395  -  CONVERTIBLE  CABRIOLET  WK 

CONVERTIBLE   PHAETON  SEDAN  U99S       -       rrimj.o.b.  fahn,  Indmna  rtiiiiwinl 

otlMr  ili.m  -i.in.(..r.l.  earn  -         AUBURN   AUTOMOBILE  COMPANY.  AUBUBN,  INDIANA 


;# 


CORD 

FRONT    DRIVE 


3£ 


When  jxrn  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PUOTOPLAT  HAGAZIXE. 


1  I  2 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


ARTKT*  EARN 

MORE*HHHM*HM 


A  A  THY  not  train  your  ability 
WW  along  art  lines  if  you  like  to 
▼_  draw?  Art  is  a  vital  part  of 
today's  business.  Advertisers 
and  publishers  are  paying 
large  sums  of  money  annu- 
ally to  those  who  are  trained 
in  Modern  Art.  Successful  magazine 
and  newspaper  artists  are  making 
fine  incomes  today.  A  great  many  suc- 
cessful students  of  the  Federal  School 
of  Illustrating  now  earn  from  $2500  to 
$6000  a  year — some  even  more. 

Drawing  is  a  fascinating  6tudy  as 
taught  through  the  Federal  Home 
Study  Course  in  Illustrating.  You  can 
learn  while  you  earn  if  you  wish. 
More  than  fifty  famous  artists  have 
contributed  exclusive  lessons  and 
drawings  to  the  Federal  Course. 

Their  experience  helps  you  to  be- 
come a  professional.  In  your  spare 
time  at  home  you  may  receive 
thorough  instruction  in  all  branches 
of  Illustrating,  Cartooning,  Lettering, 
Poster  Designing,  and  Window  Card 
Illustrating. 

Why  not  train  your  talent  for  draw- 
ing? If  you  like  to  draw,  it  may  be  your 
opportunity  for  success  in  life. 

TEST  YOUR  TALENT— FREE 
Clip  and  sign  the  coupon  below  and 
get  Free  Vocational  Art  Test  and  the 
book  "A  Road  to  Bigger  Things" 
without  charge.  Our  instructors  will 
go  over  this  art  test  and  give  you  their 
frank  opinions  as  to  your  ability. 
With  art  training  you  may  become  a 
nationally  known  artist  with  a  large 
income  later  on.  Make  your  start  to- 
day by  sending  the  coupon  at  once. 

FEDERAL    SCH€CL 
Of    ILLUSTRATING 

3101    Federal  Schools  Building 
Minneapolis,  Minnesota 


Federal  School  of  Sinatra  tln| 
3101  Federal  Schools  BMp., 
Mi  ii  lira  [Mil  in.  MiniK-Hotu. 

IMeaNC  nfml  mo  frrc  liook 
M  \  Road  To  Iticcer  Things' 
i.ml  Standard  Art  Test. 


Pnamc- 


Age Occu/»alton_ 

AUMnMM  


Who  Has  the  Best  Figure  in  Holly- 
wood? And  Why 


[  CONTINUED  FKOM  PAGE  86  ] 


Karl  Carroll  and  Earl  Christy,  were  influenced 
by  this  same  inter-relationship,  even  if  less  con- 
sciously. For  Doctor  Goldwater's  final  choice 
for  the  most  beautiful  figure  in  Hollywood  was 
Dolores  Del  Rio.  With  Bebe  Daniels  a  second 
choice. 

In  the  final  summation  we  will  give  a  credit 
of  five  points  to  a  star  every  time  she  was 
awarded  first  choice,  a  credit  of  three  points 
for  being  a  second  choice,  and  a  credit  of  one 
point  wherever  a  star  was  up  for  final  con- 
sideration by  any  of  the  judges. 


Earl 

Earl 

Star 

Carroll 

Christy 

Dolores  Del  Rio 

5 

3 

Bebe  Daniels 

3 

5 

Marion  Davies 

5 

- 

Constance  Bennett 

- 

- 

Clara  Bow 

3 

- 

Kay  Francis 

- 

1 

Joan  Crawford 

- 

1 

Alice  White 

- 

1 

superiority  of  the  roundly  turned,  warmly 
curved  figure. 

She  is  a  far  hail  from  the  straight  up  and 
down  type. 

All  of  which  is  likewise  true  of  Bebe  Daniels, 
who  wins  second  place. 

To  Marion  Davies,  Constance  Bennett, 
Clara  Bow,  Kay  Francis,  Joan  Crawford  and 
Alice  White  goes  honorable  mention. 

Beauty  is  what  it  always  has  been  and  al- 
ways will  be,  the  result  of  health  .  .  .  and  a 
beautiful  body  is  that  body  frankly  yet  sym- 


Hattie  Doctor  Total 

Carnegie      Goldwater       Credits 


13 

11 

5 

5 
3 
2 
2 

1 


Dolores  Del  Rio  achieves  the  honor  of  being 
judged  as  having  the  best  figure  in  Hollywood 
by  these  experts.  And,  as  I  said  in  the  begin- 
ning,  her  selection  definitely  establishes  the 


metrically  shaped  for  its  part  in  the  drama  of 
life.  For,  on  these  points,  we  find  doctor,  im- 
presario, and  artist  standing  firm  on  a  common 
ground. 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  94  ] 


NO  director  in  Hollywood  has  worked  harder 
or  to  better  effect,  recently,  than  John 
Cromwell. 

That  able  stage  actor  and  director  has 
filmed  a  mess  of  hits.  In  rapid  succession  he 
has  turned  out  "Street  of  Chance"  and  "For 
the  Defense"  and  "Tom  Sawyer"  and  "Scandal 
Sheet,"  and  has  just  finished  "Unfaithful," 
Ruth  Chatterton's  newest. 

I  believe  that's  a  record  for  successive  hits. 
What  a  man! 

Well,  he's  earned  his  holiday,  and  he  and 
his  lovely  wife,  Kay  Johnson,  have  been  play- 
ing and  resting  in  Havana  and  Xew  York. 
Kay,  you  remember,  stepped  out  of  a  Metro 
contract  because  she  felt  she'd  been  con- 
sistently miscast. 

Kay  should  worry  about  jobs,  with  her 
spouse  knocking  out  homer  after  homer  at 
Paramount! 

A  COUPLE  of  picture  actresses, 
neither  doing  any  too  well  at  the 
business,  were  having  a  fanning  bee 
over  the  tea-cups. 

One  of  the  ladies,  none  too  heavy- 
weight above  the  ears,  said,  "Do  you 
know  who  I'd  like  for  my  press  agent? 
The  same  man  who  does  publicity  for 
the  Prince  of  Wales!" 

CAN  you  bear  it.  girls?    Ronnie  Colman  is 
actually  going  to  play  an  American! 
At  least,  his  producers  say  he  is.    And  then 
we  hear  that   .Michael  Arlen — you  remember 
old  "Green  Hat"    Mike! — is  coming  over  to 
write  a  story  for  Ronald. 

Well — maybe  it's  to  be  a  British-Armenian- 
American  after  all. 

OLE    BEX    TURPIX,    the   boy   with    the 
rambling   eyes,   still  gets   in   a  good   lick 
now  and  then. 


His  great  Sennett  days  may  be  long  gone, 
but  he  can  still  cash  in  on  his  ambling  orbs. 
For  working  two  and  a  half  days  in  "Assorted 
Xuts."  the  Wheeler- Woolsey  comedy,  he  drew 
down  SI, 000. 

Ben  played  a  cross-eyed  aviator  who  dropped 
bombs  on  the  wrong  town.    A  natural  for  him! 

"K/fR.  OITXX  MARTTX,  for  some  years 
•*"-*-movie  reviewer  for  The  Xew  York  Morn- 
ing World,  has  been  signed  by  Fox  as  a  writer. 

Mr.  Martin  was  pleased  to  give  out  this 
statement  to  the  panting  press: 

"The  first  month  of  my  stay  in  Hollywood 
will  be  devoted  to  the  business  of  offering 
gentle  apologies  to  all  the  actors  who,  in  the 
years  of  my  critical  activity,  have  seemed  to 
m'e  to  be  ham.  This  may  require  even  two 
months." 

Or  more,  Mr.  Martin — if  you  live. 

WE  said  she  would  and  she  did! 
Clara  Kimball  Young  is  mak- 
ing a  comeback.  Her  first  is  "Kept 
Husbands."  And  Bryant  Washburn 
is  also  in  the  cast. 

RECENTLY  Joan  Crawford  and  Douglas 
Fairbanks,  Jr.,  hired  a  night  watchman  to 
guard  their  home  in  Brentwood.  The  first 
night  he  was  on  duty  Doug  went  out  and  began 
to  chat  with  him.  He  discovered  that  the 
watchman  played  chess,  so  now  Joan  is  a 
chess  widow. 

"I  go  upstairs  and  go  to  bed  in  the  house 
alone  while  Doug  and  the  watchman  sit  out 
in  the  garage  and  play  chess  half  the  night," 
she  said. 

""THERE'S  a  little  girl  on  the  Fox  payroll 
■*-  named  Frances  McCoy  who  won't  be  going 
to  any  more  big  premieres  with  jewelers. 
One  of  them  dated  her  and,  when  he  called 


E».  ry  advertisement  in  PTlOTOrEAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Maoazxni  ros  Makch,  i     1 


for  ber.  ibowed  hei  ■  beautiful  K1  "f  jewda 
and  asked  her  t>>  wear  them  Fiancee  did, 
only  t"  djacovei  thai  ihe  m  ■  human  ibow- 

During  intermiarion  the  ardent  merchant 
pointed  >>ut  the  jewelry  Frances  wore  to  the 
other  women  and  told  them  the  price  of  every 
piece. 

Hi  m.i.n  WOOD  Stenographer  Maki    I 
"\\  e've  got  i"  li.i\  ■   i  new  title  >>n  this," 
deckled  the  Great    Minds  at  Radio  Pictures, 
concerning   the    Betty   Compson    Ghn   called 
"Children  of  the  Streets," 

the  title  thinkers  thought  and  thought 

ittd  thought  and  couldn't  think  of  a  new  title. 
Hy  and  by,  some  executive's  clean  minded 
■tenographer  suggested  "Ladies  for  H 

I   the)    tOOl  it  and  paid  her  twenty  live 
dollars  for  it! 

GW1\  GORDON  has  the  answer  to  "Why 
do  picture  players  affect  such  bright  colors 

for  their  autosr"     It's  this: 

I  .•. ice    within    a    month,    in    Hollywood, 

m'S    car    was    Stolen.        \nd    each    time, 
the  colors  m»  hit   a  policeman'-,  eye  after  the 

description  had  been  broadcast  that  it  was 

recovered  before  the  thieves  i;«>t  it  out  of 
town. 

ONE  of  our  most  popular  leading  men  on 
the  Coast  was  for  years  a  violent  opponent 
of  prohibition,  and  practiced  what  he  preached. 
lie  has  just  gone  on  the  wagon.    Was  he 

put  there  by  the  exhortations  of  a  temperance 

lecturer  showing  Bnakes  in  bottles  of  alcohol 

and  horrible  example--  lie  was  not.  Did 
the  pleadings  of  his  dear  wife  finally  prevail? 
They  did  not. 

It  seems  that  he  had  a  dog,  to  whom  he 
•  cry  much  attached,  and  he  began  to 
notice  when  he  came  into  the  house  with 
a  bootleg  breath  that  the  dog  refused  to 
recognize  him.  He  wontlered  about  the  strange 
performance  until  he  realized  that  when  he 
came  home  liquored-up  he  was  not  a  pleasant 


Society's  latest  gift  to  the  talkies. 
Katharine  Leslie  is  one  of  New  York's 
prettiest  debutantes.  But  she's  al- 
ways had  her  eye  on  the  stage.  Last 
year  she  made  her  debut  as  a  society 
girl  in  the  play,  "Rebound,"  and  now 
she's  playing  the  same  sort  of  part  in 
"New  York  Lady,"  Paramount  talkie 
starring  Tallulah  Bankhead  and  Clive 
Brook.   It's  Katharine's  film  debut 


The  Security  of  Kotex 

is  what  you  value  most 


It  absorbs  correctly,  safely; 

it  is  shaped  to  fit;  it  is 

adjustable. 

WHAT  you  really  want  in  sanitary 
protection — more  than  any  other 
one  thing — is  a  feeling  of  perfect  safety 
and  security.  This  is  one  of  the  most 
important  assurances  Kotex  gives  you. 

Kotex,  in  the  first  place,  is  so  tremen- 
dously absorbent  ...  by  test,  five  times 
more  so  than  the  finest  of  surgical  cotton. 
And  the  way  it  absorbs  is  important — 
"lateral  absorption" — a  process  which 
makes  the  pad  effective  not  in  just  one 
area  but  over  the  entire  surface. 

The  delicate  fibers  of  which  Kotex  is 
made  carry  moisture  swiftly  away  from 
the  surface,  leaving  the  protective  area 
delicate  and  comfortable  for  hours.  This 
distinguishes  Kotex  from  the  ordinary 
pad.  Gives  it  far  greater  efficiency — and 
you  far  greater  comfort. 

Wear  it  on  either  side 
Kotex  may  be  worn  on  either  side  with 
equal  efficiency,  equal  comfort.   No  dan- 
ger of  embarrassment,  no  fear  of  inade- 
quate protection. 


Its  softness  lasts.  It  deodorizes  thor- 
oughly and  effectively.  Hospitals  use  it 
because  of  its  hygienic  safety,  its  amaz- 
ing absorbency.  You'll  find  it  wise  to 
specify  Kotex  next  time  you  buy  sanitary 
protection.    All  stores  have  it. 

Kotex  Company,  Chicago,  Illinois. 


IN  HOSPITALS  .  .  . 

The  Kotex  absorbent  is  the  identical   f 
material  used  by  surgeons   in  85*  of  the    = 
1  country's  leading  hospitals. 

|    2    Kotex  is  shaped  to  fit.   It  gives  incon-  § 
spicuous  protection. 

|    3     Disposable  .   .   .    instantly,  completely,    j 

|   4    Can  be  tfom  on  either  side  wuh  cquil   § 
efficiency,  equal  comfort. 

Regular  Kotex — 45c  for  12 
Kotex  Super-Size— 65c  for  12 


S€C  /nc   new  /xcfc  \   AV/7- 

Brings  net*-  ideals  of  sanitary  comfort!  Wo%en 

to  fit  by  an   entirely   new   patented    proceu. 

Firm   yet  light;  u-il     not  curl;  perfect-fitting. 

(l\  S.   Patent  No.  1,770,741) 

KOT6X 

The  New  Sanitary  Pad  which  deodorizes 

Tr.te  to  advertisers  please  mon'ion  rilOTOPI.AT  MAGAZINE. 


n4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 

person,  arid  that  a  family  row  generally  en- 
sued. That  made  him  think  and  made  him  quit. 


Grow 


Yes,  Grow  Eyelashes  and  Eye- 
brows like  this  in  30  Days 

Marvelous  new  discovery! — makes  eyelashes  and  eye- 
brows actually  grow!  Now  as  never  before  you  can 
positively  have  long,  curling,  silken  lashes  and  beauti- 
ful, wonderful  eyebrows. 

I  say  to  you  in  plain  English  that  no  matter  how  scant 
your  eyelashes  and  brows,  I  will  increase  their  length 
and  thickness  in  30  days — or  not  accept  one  penny. 
No  "ifs",  "ands"  or  "maybes" — you  actually  see 
Btartling  results — or  no  pay !  You  be  the  judge. 

Over  10,000  Women  Prove  It 
—prove  beyond  a  doubt  that  this  astounding  new 
discovery  fringes  the  eyes  with  long,  curling  natural 
lashes — makes  eyebrows  lovely,  silken  lines.  Read 
what  they  say — sworn  to  under  oath  before  a  notary 
public.  From  Mile.  HeffleUnger  240  W,  "B"  St., 
Carlisle,  Pa.;  "I  certainly  am  delighted...  people  now 
remark  how  long  and  silky  my  eyelashes  appear." 
From  Naomi  Otstot,  5437  Westminster  Ave.,  W. 
Philadelphia,  Pa.;  "I  am  greatly  pleased.  My  eye- 
brows and  lashes  are  beautiful  now."  Franees  Raviart 
of  Jeanctte,  Pa.  says:  "Your  Eyelash  and  Eyebrow 
Beautifier  is  simply  marvelous."  Flora  J.  Corriveau, 
Biddeford,  Me.,  says  "With  your  Method  my  eye- 
lashes are  growing  long  and  luxurious." 

Result*  Evident  In  One  Week 
In  one  week — often  in  a  day  or  so — you  see  the  lashes 
become  more  beautiful,  like  silken  fringe!  The  darling 
little  upward  curl  shows  itself  and  eyebrows  become 
sleek.  It's  the  thrill  of  a  lifetime — when  you  have 
lashes  and  brows  as  beautiful  as  any  ever  seen. 
Remember — I  guarantee  you  satisfactory  results  in 
30  days — or  your  money  refunded  in  full.  I  mean  just 
that — no  quibble,  no  strings. 
Send  today.  Special  Intro- 
ductory Price  only  $1.95 
NOW!  Later  $5.00.  Order 
NOW  at  low  price. 

Sent  C.  O.  D. Or  if  money  accom- 
panies order  postage  will  be  prepaid. 

jii »i ■ ■■■■ill  nil  ■II1U 

j Lucille  Young,  6563  Lucille  Young  Bldg.,  Chicago,  Z 
Z  Send  me  your  new  discovery  for  growing  eyelashes  Z 
land  eyebrows.  If  not  entirely  satisfied,  I'll  return  ; 
;ln  30  days  and  you  refund  my  money. 

Price  C.  O.  t>.  Is  S1.95  plus  few  cents  postage  Z 
Z  If  SI  95  sent  with  order  postage  will  be  paid.  ; 
Z        Check  If  money  enclosed  D  or  C.  O.  D.  Q 


£m.^~-} 


Z  Name , 

;  St.  Address 

J  City Ptafe. 


Stop 
r  Itching 

1  Ski* 


Don't  worry  longer  withltch 
ing  Skin,  Dandruff,  Rashes, 
Blemishes,  Pimples  and  other 
annoying  skin  irritations.  Get 

a  bottle  of  cooling,  healing, 

sntiscpticZemo — thesafe.dependablewaytqre- 
lieve  itching  torture.  Convenient  to  use  any  time 


Joes  not  show.  All  druggists,  35c,  60c,  $1.00. 


WILLIAM  POWELL  has  a  fine 
baritone  voice.  Each  morning 
when  working  in  a  picture,  he  sings 
a  song  or  two  to  loosen  up  his  talking 
voice.  But  he  has  NEVER  sung  in  a 
picture. 

Yet    Charles    (Ex-Buddy)   Rogers 
has.     Hollywood  is  like  that! 

BET  many  of  you  don't  know  that  make-up 
extends  even  to  changing  the  color  of  hair! 

Of  course,  there's  no  secret  about  touching 
up  hair  with  white  to  designate  age.  Or  about 
Charlie  Chaplin  blackening  his  graying  hair 
while  he  makes  a  picture. 

But  even  Norma  Shearer  and  Joan  Crawford 
have  to  make-up  their  tresses.  Each  of  them 
lightens  her  hair  during  the  shooting  of  a 
picture.     Better  photography. 

TOM  MOORE  and  Bob  Ellis,  after  years,  are 
together  again  in  the  same  picture.  Tom's 
a  hero  and  Bob's  a  heavy  in  "The  Last 
Parade." 

Long  ago  they  worked  together,  in  the 
Selznick  and  Kalem  days.  They  had  a  swell 
system.  Ellis  would  direct  Moore,  and  Moore 
would  direct  Ellis,  and  being  firm  friends, 
they'd  each  give  the  other  a  grand  break. 

JUST  to  show  what  habit  will  do — 
There  was  a  time  when  Ben  Turpin,  the 
obtuse-angle-eyed,  was  a  cop.    A  traffic  cop. 
In  Mack  Sennett  comedies. 


The  other  day,  there  was  a  traffic  jam  out- 
side a  Hollywood  church.  Ben  leaped  into 
the  breach  and  directed  traffic.  It's  funny, 
but  despite  the  fact  that  nobody  could  tell 
which  way  he  was  looking,  he  got  it  unsnarled. 

A  HOLLYWOOD  columnist  de- 
scribes Clara  Bow's  latest  sports 
costume — long  white  flannel  trousers, 
sharp-creased;  a  white  beret;  a  white 
sweater  with  zigzagging  red  lines; 
white  shoes  with  red  heels. 

"She's  been  mistaken,"  he  said, 
"for  a  young  barber  pole." 

RAYMOND  GRIFFITH'S  great  work  in 
■^Mhe  dying-soldier  bit  in  "All  Quiet  on  the 
Western  Front"  didn't  draw  him  a  heap  of 
work. 

Everyone  thought  it  would,  but  the  former 
star  comic  dropped  from  sight  again. 

Now  he's  been  placed  under  contract  by 
Warners  to  write  scripts — probably  comedies. 

Make  'em  funny,  kid!    We're  for  you. 

PRACTICALLY  all  the  kids  who  live  in  the 
*-  neighborhood  of  the  Paramount  Eastern 
Studio  at  Astoria,  Long  Island,  own  kodaks. 
The  reason?  Nancy  Carroll  has  been  making 
one  picture  after  another  out  there,  and  she 
patiently  stands  outside  the  door  and  poses  for 
youthful  admirers  who  prize  a  picture  they've 
snapped  themselves  more  than  the  finest 
photographic  product.  And  sometimes  Nancy 
poses  with  one  of  the  kids,  while  another 
records  the  great  event!  Happy  days  out  on 
Long  Island! 


Brickbats  and  Bouquets 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  6  ] 


Cheer  Up,  Greta 

Philadelphia,  Penna. 
With  all  due  respect  to  Frau  Dietrich  I  don't 
think  that  Greta  Garbo  need  worry  about  her 
throne. 

Wm.  C.  Resson 

Huzza  for  Marlene! 

Boulder,  Colo. 
Never  have  I  beheld  such  a  devastating 
personality  as   that  of   Marlene   Dietrich  in 
"Morocco." 

In  fact,  so  absorbed  was  I  by  her  witchery 
that  I  never  realized  until  the  picture  was  over 
that  a  seat  mate  was  rattling  a  paper  sack  and 
munching  lustily.    That  is  true  Art. 

Geraldixe  Wynne 

Come,  Be  Nonchalant ! 

Los  Angeles.  Calif. 
Charles  (Ex-Buddy)  Rogers  is  as  much  of  a 
man  as  any  actor  you  can  name,  and  I  have 
much  more  respect  for  him  because  he  does  not 
smoke  all  the  time  than  I  have  for  Chester 
Morris  who  always  has  a  cigarette  in  his  mouth. 
Miss  Dorothy  Gilmor 

Attention,  Jeanette! 

Malansr,  Malay 
My  favorite  wish  has  been  realized  at 
length.  I  have  seen  and  heard  Jeanette  Mac- 
Donald  and  that  in  "The  Love  Parade."  Do 
1  like  her  singing?  No  doubt  about  it.  It  was 
divinely  beautiful. 

All  the  time,  while  I  was  sitting  to  look  at  her 
amiable  face,  I  wondered  if  it  was  really  a 
human  being  who  sang.  And  what  a  sym- 
pathetic and  magnificent  figure  she  has. 

F.  L.  Amicurle 

A  Vote  for  Two  Boys 

Cleveland,  Ohio 
It  distresses  me  greatly  to  learn  that  Nils 
Asther  is  out  of  pictures.    Someone  is  making  a 
grave  error. 


Greta  Garbo  has  only  had  two  decent  leading 
men — Nils  Asther  and  John  Gilbert. 

Gail  Joxes 

Bight!  A  Treat! 

Charlotte,  N.  C. 

What  a  delicious  treat  to  see  a  picture  such 
as  "The  Right  to  Love"  when  you're  so  fed  up 
on  high-kicking,  wise-cracking  and  under- 
world pictures. 

I  am  still  walking  around  in  a  daze  under 
its  mystic  spell.  Ruth  Chatterton's  superb 
acting  brought  out  the  deepest  emotions  of 
the  human  heart. 

Mrs.  Joe  Miller 

Bruce  Grows  Ecstatic 

Yakima,  Wash. 
I  sometimes  doubt  that  a  woman  as  dev- 
astatingly  lovely  as  Greta  Garbo  lives  in  the 
same  world,  breathes  the  same  air  as  other 
human  beings. 

When  I  see  her  in  a  picture  it  is  like  catching 
a  glimpse  of  Heaven. 

Bruce  Hlatt 

Mary  Is  Upset 

Montgomery,  Ala. 

Lew  Ayres  is  just  another  good  kid  gone 
wrong  through  woeful  miscasting.  After  his 
fine,  sincere  performance  in  "All  Quiet"  they 
cast  him  opposite  the  blonde  and  bored 
Constance  Bennett  with  the  result  that  he 
looked  and  acted  like  a  green,  overgrown  school 
boy. 

And  not  satisfied  with  that,  they  take  the 
Adorable  Baby  Face  and  make  him  King  of 
the  Underworld.  I'm  looking  for  them  to  put 
Marie  Dressier  in  "Bab,  a  Sub-deb"  any 
minute. 

Mary  Jane  Fuller 

No  Bibs,  Please 

Saskatoon,  Sask.,  Canada 
I  was  very  disgusted  when  I  read  the  very 


Every  advertisement  in  THOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Magaztni  km  March,  1931 


1  15 


ipiti  lul  and   r i<  1  »*  uloui  lettei  ymu 

line  bj   M  i     Lillian  Bron  n  In  >•  fereni  e 
to  [oan  1  Iran ford'i  1 

I  think  [oan  hai  the  n  I  Bgora  In 

Hollywood. 

M  \i  ..  |  R8 

In  Re  John! 

N'.w  VoA  C '  i  t  >  ,  \     Y, 

\\  by  doesn'l  John  Barrymore  devote  hi 

tn  t  h.ir.u  U  r  p.ir!>  .mil  leave  the  rom.intu  |>.irN 
to   mii  h    n.itur.il    |il.i  :  onald    Colin. in, 

liuiiii  M.in  h  and  I  «r? 

Mkv  11  1.  Davis 


For  a  change,  we  have  a  heart 
throb  from  the  other  side  of  the 
proscenium  arch.  This  little  story 
is  taken  direct  from  Walter  Win- 
chell's  famous  column  in  the  New 
York  Mirror. 

"Poor  Lillian  Roth  .  .  .  The 
audience  never  suspected  that  those 
tears  she  flooded  all  over  the  stage 
were  genuine  .  .  .  Lilly  sings  that 
ballad  she  warbled  in  'The  Vaga- 
bond King'  flicker  in  which  she 
moans  about  her  lover — who  is 
sentenced  to  death  .  .  .  Two  mo- 
ments before  she  went  on  Sunday 
some  careless  lad  let  her  answer  the 
phone  .  .  .  Which  let  her  know 
that  her  real  sweetheart,  her  groom 
to  be,  had  died  while  under  the 
operating  blade  .  .  .  He  was  only 
23,  too  .  .  .  How  she  screamed  and 
shrieked  in  her  undressing  room 
.  .  .  Her  grief  was  terrific  .  .  .  She 
adored  him  so  .  .  .  Richman  wasted 
no  sympathy  on  her  .  .  .  The  rest 
of  us  moaned  with  her,  telling  her 
how  sorry  we  were,  which  was 
wrong,  for  it  only  made  her  cry  all 
the  harder  .  .  .  Harry  shook  her 
up  and  yelled:  'None  of  that  stuff, 
do  you  hear?  This  is  your  life — your 
job.  Audiences  never  understand 
.  .  .  They  aren't  interested  in  your 
grief!  .  .  .  They  came  to  be  amused, 
entertained  and  diverted  .  .  .  You've 
got  to  go  out  there  and  sing  your 
head  off!'  .  .  .  And  so  asserting 
himself  Harry  shoved  her  out  onto 
the  stage  ...  I  never  saw  such  a 
display  of  'heart'  in  my  career,  or 
as  we  vulgarians  prefer  calling  it — 
'guts!'  .  .  .  Her  sweetheart  was 
dead  up  there  at  the  hospital  and  she 
had  to  go  out  there  and  make  them 
laugh  .  .  .  And  applaud  .  .  .  And  how 
she  did  it!  .  .  .  Then  when  she 
came  to  that  sad  song  in  which  she 
yells:  'He  was  my  man!  He  made 
me  happy!  He  took  my  heart!  I 
love  him  so !' — the  tear  ducts  opened 
wide  and  how  she  wept  .  .  .  The 
spectators  of  course  must  have  said 
to  themselves:  'Gee,  what  an 
actress.  Look  at  those  real  tears!' 
.  .  .  I've  written  about  such  things 
from  hearsay  before — oh,  hundreds 
of  times — about  'The  show  must 
go  on!" — "The  curtain  must  go  up!' 
.  .  .  That  was  the  first  time  I  got  a 
close-up  of  it." 


« 


KJeenexr  ...  as  essential 
as  cold  cream  itself!' 


Use  Kleenex  to  remove 

cold  cream  ....  avoid 

germ -laden  towels  and 

"cold  cream  cloths." 

FOR  perfect  cleanliness,  Kleenex  is 
almost  an  essential.  Kleenex  enables 
you  to  give  up  those  germ-filled  "cold 
cream  cloths"  forever.  And  how  dan- 
gerous they  are — teeming  with  bacteria 
— actually  encouraging  blackheads  and 
even  more  repellent  blemishes. 

You  use  Kleenex  just  once,  you  see — 
then  throw  it  away.  No  tissue  need  ever 
touch  your  face  that  isn't  as  fresh  as  fresh 
can  be. 


Frequent  powdering,  exposure  to  dust 
and  soot,  fill  pores  with  dirt  that  is  often 
very  difficult  to  remove  completely.  This 
dirt  needs  the  superabsorbency  of 
Kleenex. 

The  delicate  tissues  attract  cleansing 
cream  like  a  magnet  .  .  .  absorbing  em- 
bedded particles  of  dirt  along  with  it. 
Kleenex,  too,  saves  towels  from  cosmetic 
stains  and  grease. 

Women  who  started  using  Kleenex 
for  removing  cold  cream  soon  discovered 
what  perfect  handkerchiefs  it  makes. 
Kleenex  prevents  re-infection  from  germ- 
filled  handkerchiefs.  You  use  each  tissue 
but  once,  then  discard.  Ir  helps  reduce 
the  spread  of  colds  in  families. 

•> 1  rv   JVleenex   X  ree <• 

KLEEXEX  COMPANY,  PH-J 

Lake  Michigan  Uuildincr,  Oiicapo,  111. 

(In  Canada:   330  Hav  St..  Toronto,  Ont.) 
Please  send  a  sample  o:  Kleenex  to: 

Xa  m  c 


Kleenex  ccmes  in  dainty  tints  and  in  white,  and 

in    large,    medium    and   small  packages.     At   all 

toilet  goods  counters.    Try  Kleenex  today. 


A  ddress- 


Citv. 


When  ron  write  to  idrertisers  please  mention  rilOTOTLAY  MAGAZINE. 


ii6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


Keeps  teeth  white 


THE  beginning  of  many  a 
friendship  may  be  traced 
to  a  charming  smile. 

And  the  thrilling  charm  of 
a  smile  may  be  traced  to 
teeth— WHITE  teeth. 

Every  day  chew  delicious 
Dentvne,  the  gum  especially 
made  to  keep  teeth  white. 

It  also  helps  to  keep  gums 
firm,  because  its  extra  chewv 
quality  gives  them  extra 
healthful  exercise.  Money 
can  buv  no  finer 
gum  than  Dentvne 


chewing 


cOTYENTYNE 

I    J .  .and  smile! 


HAIR  REMOVED 

instantly,  painlessly,  harmlessly,  in 
your  own  home,  with  Johnston's 
HAIR  REMOVER.  No  fuss,  no 
muss.  No  objectionable  odors.  Hair 
removed  with  Johnston's  tends 
to  have  its  giowth  retarded,  Send 
SI  for  2-oz.  Jar  prepaid  (instructions 
Included).  Write  Dept.  P.  M.  3. 
Queens  Pharmacal  Co.,  Elmhurst,  N.  Y. 


P 


NURSING 


LEARN 
PRACTICAL 

AT  HOME  IN  IS  WEEKS 

:  i.      Many    earn    S20    l«    S30   weekly 
'  inv.hds  in  Ineir  vicinity  WHILE   LEARNING. 
W*    h.lp    itcur*    position*.      Write 
MISS   C.    TULL.    6204    Winthrop.     Chicsio.     Illinois 


You  can  complete 

this   simplified   High 
School  Course  at  home 

iuirement«   for  entrance    to  eoll'-ie 

and    thirty-«ii    other    praeti<-t,I 

Bulletin.     Send    for   it    TODAY. 

AMERICAN    SCHOOL 

Dent.  H-343.  Drtnl  Ave..  tV  58th  St.         (PAS  1923  CHICAGO 


inside   of  two  y*ars. 
and    the    leadinc    prof 
courses  arc  described 


DENISON'S 

PLAYS 


yC^S.  Musical  Comedies,  Oper- 
,  5  J  /ettas.  Vaudeville  Acts* 
iYEARS/Mjn8treis>  Comedy 
\°F  Hl™/  Songs,  Make-op  Gooda 

"^  Catalog  Free 

T.  S.  Denis  on  &  Co.  623  S.Wabash,  Dept. 76 .  Chicago 


WANTED— Men  and  Women 

To  Represent  Large  Reputable  Firms  Who-Sell  Direct  to  Consumer 

LIBERAL  COMMISSIONS  OFFERED 


in  the 

Current 


Read  All  About  Tlieir  Unusual  Offers 

Opportunity  Magazine  n 


On  Sale  at  All 
ewsstands 


-Publishers' Address:  De(n.  PM3,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago- 


The  Shadow  Stage 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  57  | 


FIGHTING  THRU— Tiffany 
Productions 

•THIS  picture  will  delight  audiences  to  whom 
*■  it  will  be  shown.  It  is  not  made  for  the  big 
houses,  but  Ken  Maynard  and  his  horse  "Tar- 
zan ''  do  some  of  their  best  work  and  they  are 
surrounded  by  beautiful  Jeanette  Loff,  the 
heroine,  and  Wallace  MacDonald  and  \Y.  L. 
Thorne,  heavies.  MacDonald  does  a  fine 
drunk  scene.  You  will  get  your  money's 
worth. 

THE  LOVE  KISS— Celebrity 
Productions 

A  N  amiable  little  college  comedy  that  will 
■^^please  the  young  folks,  both  romantically 
and  laughically.  A  pretty  and  able  newcomer 
turns  up  in  the  person  of  Olive  Shea,  and  For- 
rest Stanley  plays  a  handsome  professor. 
Donald  Meek,  a  great  character  actor,  is  in  it 
and  so  is  Terry  Carroll,  Nancy's  sister. 

THE  SECOND  HONEYMOON— 
Continental 

A  FARCE  comedy  that  turns  out  to  be  en- 
-^Mertaining,  and  good  fare  for  the  family 
trade  as  well.  Blonde  Josephine  Dunn  and  our 
old  silent  friend.  Edward  Earle.  play  the  leads. 
Its  story  has  to  do  with  domestic  infelicity, 
but  it's  all  very  nice  and  clean. 

NIGHT  BIRDS— British  International 

rTTIE  hired  hands  across  the  sea  again  turn 
*-  to  mystery  melodrama.  Most  of  the  action 
here  is  in  a  London  night  club,  and  there  is 
considerable  to-do  over  a  killing.  The  excellent 
Jameson  Thomas  has  the  leading  role.  It's  an 
all-right  picture,  but  hardly  worth  the  time, 
effort  and  expense.  Oh  dear,  our  British  cousins 
must  do  better! 

ALOHA— Rogell-T  iff  any  Production 

•"THE  good  old  "Bird  of  Paradise"  plot,  vol- 
*-  cano  and  all,  and  dressed  up  in  swell  clothes 
for  the  talkies.  There's  a  lot  of  sure-fire  sob- 
stuff  about  a  little  tot  and  mama,  some  not-so- 
bad  comedy,  a  lot  of  South  Seas  atmosphere 
with  steel  guitars  and  everything,  and  a  quite 
hot  volcano.  Ben  Lyon  and  Raquel  Torres 
work  hard. 

CAUGHT  CHEATING— Tiffany- 
Productions 

GEORGE  SIDNEY  and  Charlie  Murray  get 
tangled  with  a  Chicago  gangster's  wife  and 
are  taken  for  a  ride.  The  gangsters  are  too  real 
for  comfort.  It  moves  fast  and  is  funny  most 
of  the  time.  A  cast  of  skilled  comedy  veterans. 
Pretty  girls,  and  pretty  good  fun. 

THE  SUNRISE  TRAIL— Tiffany 
Production 

THERE'S  so  much  talking  in  this  Western 
that  there's  hardly  a  chance  left  for  action 
— and  a  Western  without  action  is  like  pretzels 
without  beer.  Usual  stuff  about  the  cowboy 
hero  who  outwits  the  cattle  rustlers  and  wins 
the  girl.  If  they  talk  this  much  out  West,  then 
the  West  has  stopped  being  the  place  where 
men  are  men;  it's  where  men  are  dialogue 
writers,  thassall. 

WHITE  THUNDER 

HTHE  eternal  triangle,  transplanted  into  New- 
*■  foundland  this  time.  The  story  is  nothing 
to  get  terribly  excited  about,  but  the  scenery 
is  magnificent.  Photographed  and  recorded  in 
the  terrifying  vast  iciness  of  Newfoundland, 


Erery  advertisement  In  rilOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Magazini   roa  Masch,  r    I 


i  i 


•■  w  ini,    I  bond  legitimately  La- 

tins picture  "f  the  life  of  those  who  live 
there  Particularly  thrilling  is  that  i>.irt  "t  the 
pii  ture  whii  ii  deals  with  tl  i  ipedition 

and  its  melodramati)  •  Umax. 

ALMOST   \  HONE1  t#OOA 
British  International 

ALIGHT  bedroom  farce  of  the  era  thai  -till 
thought  the  man  hiding  under  the  bed,  or 
in  ■  dotha  hamper,  excruciatingly  funny. 
Clifford  Mollison  stands  out  aa  .1  promising 
light  comedian,  and  tin-  leading  woman  i>  a 
pretty  girl  named  Dorothy  Watts.  Our  old 
American  friend,  Monty  Banks,  directed  this 

job.     Yrry  inihl. 

THE  MAN  FROM  CHICAGO— 
Bistres  Produt  tions 

Till    British  idea  of  how  the  gang  gentlemen 
of  Chicago,  and  their  ladies,  carry  on    ft's 
simply  too  terrible  to  waste  words  on.     We 

won't'. 

ONCE  A  SINNER— Fox 

A  \  exceptionally  fine  cast  is  hurled  into  the 
«*oldesl  type  of  triangle  story  in  "Once  ■ 
Sinner,"  and  only  its  really  brilliant  acting 

pulls  the  picture  from  the  doldrums.  It's 
■  tin-  woman  with  ■  past  who  decides  on  a 
new  life  with  a  nice  country  hoy,  only  to  renew 
old  life  when  they  make  money  and  move 
to  the  city.  Dorothy  Mackaill,  Joel  McCrea, 
c   iiiurv  Gordon,  John  Halliday — all  dandy. 

HOW  HE  LIED  TO  HER  HUSBAND— 

British  International 

THIS  forms  the  surrender  of  George  Bernard 
Shaw,    most    distinguished    living    man   of 
letters,  to  the  talkies.     It's  a  little  comedy  that 

takes  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  unreel,  done 
in  one  setting,  and  depending  on  the  Shavian 
wit  for  all  its  entertainment.  And  it  is 
amusing,  if  you  like  Shaw's  smart  talk  batted 
about  A  cast  of  three — unknown  to  Ameri- 
cans— performs  it. 

/)  WAGED  LOVE—Sono  Art- 
World  Wide 

SORRY  to  say  this  has  the  earmarks  of  a 
quickie,  and  made  some  time  ago.  But  it 
has  the  services  of  pretty  June  Collyer  as  a 
home-wrecker,  and  pleasant  work  by  Charles 
Starrett  and  Eloise  Taylor  as  the  young 
married  couple  whose  domesticity  is  busted 
wide  open  by  June's  dimples — until  the  last 
reel.    Irvin  \Yillat  directed.    Very'  mild,  this. 


Poor  Li'l  Rango 


\  TINTED  FROM  PAGE  47  I 

playing  with  some  native  youngster  in  Sumatra 
today,  happier  probably  than  either  you  or  I." 

Then  a  terror  smites  Schocdsack. 

"But  don't  print  that,"  he  adds. 

"Why?" 

"It'd  spoil  the  illusion,"  he  echoes.  The 
phrase  that's  used  a  million  times  a  day  in 
Hollywood. 

" " Iiv.it  don't  you  know  that  every  Society  for 
the  Prevention  of  Cruelty  to  animals  will  be 
gunning  for  you?"'  you  ask  him.  "Don't  you 
realize  that  every  warm-hearted  movie-goer 
who  sees  Rango  slain  will  hate  you?  Don't 
you  realize  that  this  thing's  going  to  raise  a 
Storm  of  resentment  and  criticism?" 

"Aw."  he  drawls  at  that,  "I'll  take  the  fall, 
if  they  really  think  I  killed  him.  But  if  they 
knew,  before  seeing  the  picture,  that  Rango 
didn't  actually  die,  that  scene  would  lose  all 
its  punch." 

And  there  the  matter  stands. 


READ  THE 
WARNING  MESSAGE 

IN  THE  LITTLE 
LAUGHTER  USES 


R 


E  warned  of  tins  [act;  ths  smallest  tins 
i\  <i  potential  wrinkle.  L  nless  \.  ou  m  stt  Ii 

them,    tlu-    lines    tli.it    veie    OTICC    so     [etching 

around  your  e>  es  and  moutb  h  ill  gradually 
spread     and     deepen     until     they    arc*    ugly 
wrinkles,  disheartening  wrinkles  tliat  make  you  look  old. 

ton  need  not  Jet  tins  happen.  Dorothy  C»r.-iy  lias  evolved 
Dtilic  treatments  and  preparations  that  will  keep  your  ikia 
ootli  and  young.  It  is  an  easy  matter  to  give  yourself  these 
treatments  at  home,  for  the  same  preparations  vliuli  have  proved 
so  successful  in  the  Dorothv  (»i.iv  .salons  are  sold  at  leading 
.shops  everywhere.  Write  to  .Dorothy  C»ray,  or  ask.  at  your 
favorite  .shop  lor  a  copy  of  the  Dorothy  Lrray  hooklet  on 
correct  home  care  of  the  skin. 


S<  ii- 

.Mil 


Qu.G.iW 


Chi, 


ago 


DOROTHY  CRAY 

685  FIFTH  AVENUE,  NEW  YORK 

Telephone  "WIcker<nam  2-6109 
Los  Angeles      •       <San  Francisco      •      Washington      •       Atlantic  City 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  MAG.VZIXE. 


n8 


So  Easy  to  Keep 

Ties  Clean 

/'""MVE  the  soiled  tie  a  gentle  rub  or  two 
^J  with  a  clean,  Energine-moistened cloth. 
Spots  vanish  like  magic,  leaving  the  tie 
fresh  and  like  new.  And  it's  ready  to  wear 
immediately  because Energine  dries  instant- 
ly, leaves  no  odor  and  no  regrets. 

In  just  a  few  minutes  with  Energine  you 
can  clean  and  renew  his  whole  stock  of 
ties.  Removes  dirt  and  grease  spots  instantly 
without  wrinkling  or  taking  out  the  crease. 
Will  not  harm  the  finest  silks  or  other  fabrics. 

By  following  the  simple  directions  on  the 
label  you  can  easily  and  successfully  clean 
a  lot  of  things  with  Energine,  including 
suits,  dresses,  coats,  gloves,  hats,  shoes, 
etc  A  little  goes  a  long 
way.  Get  the  Energine 
habit.  It  saves  money 
and  self-respect.  Large 
can  35c  All  druggists. 

Millions  of  Cans 
Sold  Yearly 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  revealed,  the  scene 
wherein  the  tiger  apparently  kills  the  tiny  ape 
was  one  of  the  first  scenes  he  shot  in  this 
marvelous  jungle-story.  "And  one  of  the  most 
dangerous,    he  adds. 

That  prompts  questions  about  how  the  film 
was  ever  made — how  those  unbelievable  close- 
ups  of  fierce  jungle  beasts  were  secured — how 
the  final  death-battle  between  the  caribao 
and  the  tiger  was  shot — a  million  other 
questions. 

"I've  got  to  protect  myself,"  is  his  answer. 
"I  can't  tell  my  secrets."  He's  right.  He's 
the  man  who  made  "Chang"  a  few  years  ago; 
"Grass,"  that  tremendous  epic  of  man's 
struggle  against  nature's  hardest  obstacles. 
He  won't  work  in  studios;  hates  them.  He  goes 
to  the  far  places  and  brings  back  masterpieces. 
And  "Rango"  is  his  finest. 


LEAVES    NO  ODOR 

ENERGINE 

THE  PERFECT  CLEANING  FLUID 


uslrous 


l^solor  for 


HAIR 

[Test  Bottle  "1 
free] 


Have  ever-youthful  hair  this  SAFE 
way.  Make  test  yourself.  No  risk. 
No  expense.  We  send  complete  Test 
Package  FREE. 

This  way  you  simply  comb  clear  liquid 
through  hair.  Gray  goes.  Any  shade  wanted 
comes  —  black,  brown,  auburn,  blonde.  Won't 
rubofforstain.  We  do  not  ask  you  to  buy — Just 
try  it  at  our  expense. 

FIIEE  3,000.000  women  have  received  this  test. 
_,  „  ^_,  Snip  oft*  a  lock  of  hair.  Test  it  first  this  safe 
^»3|     way.    Mail  coupon  for  Test  Package. 


I. 

2422  Goldman  Bldg. 

Name 

Street 


St.  Paul,  Minn. 


City 

Color  of  your  hair?. 


Stat.- 


T_TE  does  admit  that  immeasurable  patience 
*■  -Ms  one  first  requirement.  For  days,  he  and 
his  other  cameraman,  Buddy  Williams,  waited 
behind  jungle-grass  screens  beside  tiger-trails 
for  a  few  seconds'  shot  of  a  tiger.  For  days  on 
days,  they  waited  through  jungle  rains  for  a 
moment  of  sunlight  to  shoot  a  scene  or  two. 

No  trained  animals  are  used  in  the  film,  so 
he  had  to  trust  to  the  animals  themselves  to 
give  him  his  stuff.  He  couldn't  direct  them, 
like  circus  tigers  or  Tiffany  chimpanzees.  He 
had  to  turn  his  cameras  on  them  and  let  them 
do  their  stuff  as  nature  directed,  not  man. 
And  that's  exactly  the  reason,  after  all,  why 
his  film  is  so  great.    It's  real,  not  artificial. 

Unbelievable  difficulties  attend  his  work, 
aside  from  the  need  for  patience,  and  living 
under  jungle  conditions,  and  all  that  sort  of 
usual  thing.  For  one  thing,  he  never  knew  until 
he  got  back  to  civilization  just  what  his 
cameras  had  recorded.  He  could  not  develop 
his  stuff  in  the  wilds. 

And  technical  difficulties  were  legion — but 
you're  not  interested  in  that.  You're  interested 
only  in  two  things — -that  "Rango"  is  a  great 
film,  and  that  Rango  wasn't  killed  after  all. 

Rango  is  going  to  take  rank  as  one  of  the 
year's  favorite  stars.  And  Schoedsack  as  one 
of  the  year's  best  movie-makers! 


The  Star's  Secret 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  46  ] 

moonlight,  and  Stella  Solvig!  Oh,  the  armies 
of  men  who  would  have  given  years  of  their 
lives  to  change  places  with  me!  I  thought  of 
them,  and  I  decided  I  would  ask  her  my 
question  this  night,  before  I  lost  the  chance 
forever. 

"V\  THEN  we  reached  her  cottage,  she 
W  stopped,  of  her  own  accord,  and  sat 
down  on  the  sand.  'I  want  to  look  at  it 
awhile,'  she  said,  and  putting  her  elbows  on 
her  knees,  took  her  face  in  her  hands.  I  sat 
down  beside  her,  and  we  watched  the  tide 
coming  up  on  the  beach. 

"I  was  afraid  I  hadn't  the  courage  to  speak 
to  her.  But,  finally,  without  courage,  without 
planning  what  I  was  going  to  say,  I  blurted 
out:  'You  must  know!  You  must  have  come 
to  some  conclusion  about  it!  Your  power  is 
so  universal,  so  tremendous.  And  it's  real. 
The  fact  that  it  expresses  itself  through 
illusions  doesn't  make  it  any  less  real.  All 
over  the  world,  at  this  moment,  the  faithful 
are  watching  you,  worshipping  you,  listening 
to  your  voice  and  dreaming  over  your  beauty.' 
"  'Don't!'  she  said  quietly.  But  I  went  on 
because  I  couldn't  help  myself:  'Tell  me,'  I 
said.  'Be  kind  and  tell  me  your  secret!  It 
isn't  possible  that  you're  a  stranger  to  your- 
self. Everyone  else  on  earth,  perhaps,  but  not 
you.  You've  had  too  many  proofs  of  your 
power.  You,  the  modern  goddess,  must  know 
why  the  world  adores  you.' 

Everj  adTcrtUemcnt  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  la  guaranteed. 


^C-V 


EACH  night,  just  before  going  to  bed,  take 
Dr.  Edwards  Olive  Tablets  and  if  you're 
like  thousands  of  others,  you'll  be  delighted 
■with  the  way  headaches  vanish,  as  good  and 
glorious  health  returns.  For  more  than  twenty 
years,  Dr.  Edwards  prescribed  this  formula  for 
patients  who  found  grateful  relief.  It  is  a  com- 
pound of  rare  vegetable  ingredients.  Now  he 
brings  this  formula  to  you.  Dr.  Edwards  Olive 
Tablets.  Know  them  by  their  olive  color. 

Relief  is  Quick  and  Gentle 

An  efficient  substitute  for  calomel  and  far  more 
pleasant  to  take,  Dr.  Edwards  Olive  Tablets 
merely  assist  nature  in  restoring  the  bowels 
and  liver  (trouble  starts  here)  to  normal  action, 
thus  relieving  danger  and  protecting  good 
health.  They  are  safe,  harmless,  and  mild  in 
action.  No  griping.  Non-habit-forming. 

If  your  skin  is  sallow;  if  you  are  tired  and 
listless;  if  headaches  bother  you,  try  Dr. 
Edwards  Olive  Tablets.  Quickly  you  should 
look  and  feel  so  much  better.  Sold  by  all 
druggists,  15d,  30ji,  and  60j{. 


SHAPE** 
,-NOSE 


30  DAYS 

HOME   TRIAL 


87,000  men   and 
women    have    used 
the    ANITA    Nose 
Adjuster  to  improve 
their   appear- 
ance.   Shapes 
flesh  and  car- 
tilage  of    the 
nose — quickly,  safely  and  painlessly,  while 
you  sleep  or  work.     Your  age  doesn't  mat- 
ter.    Results  are  lasting.  Doctors  praise  it. 
Small  cost.    Money-back  guarantee. 

Send  for  FREE  BOOKLET 
"The  Nose  and  Its  Shape" 

ANITA  INSTITUTE,  C28  Anita  Bldg,  Newark,  N.  J. 


MONOGRAM  COMPACT5 


For  a  limited  time  1  have  persuaded  our  company ' 
to  give  you  for  $1  a  genuine  leather,  double  compact 
with  your  own  monogram  in  leaf-gold  initials.  Green, 
blue,  red  or  black  leather.  Exquisite  Vashe'  powder. 
White,  Flesh,  Naturelle  or  Rachel,  and  Light,  Medium, 
Dark,  Orange  or  Brilliant  rouge.  All  in  lovely  gift  box, 
with  extra  re/ill,  postpaid  in  U.  S.  for  only  $1.  Order 
yours  today — you'll  be  delighted  with  it.  And,  you'll 
surely  want  additional  ones  for  friends — for  gifts  or 
bridge  prizes.  Money-back  guarantee.  Give  initials; 
shade  of  leather,  powder,  rouge;  square  or  oblong 
compact.  FREE— Write  for  "Modern  Compacts"  book- 
let i  includes  Club  Offer)  and  specimen  of  new  , 

"Vashe'  Gift  Certificaf" 

J    ^  Mary  Jane  Lee,  Dept.  H  ^T%/* 

Nu-Way  Mfg.  Co.  (Est.  1925) 

Louisville,  Ky. 


Photoplay  M\..\/im   raa  Mam  h.  1931 


"  "I  know    1  .iin  .1 

Stella  Soli 

.« h  mora  than 
this  powi r  in  move  p> ople,  t"  nuke  them 
m  them  emotioni  they  them- 

mIms   i.in't    .m.ilv.v    .mil    baldly    know    tiny 

possess.    To  be  aok  to  do  ili.it,  yon  must  have 

nt.il    emotion,    some    bidden 

e  of  feeling,  with  which  to  move  them. 

You  must  I     Ami  IM  give  the  moon  and  that 

large  rcil  star  over  there  to  know  what  it  is.' 

"CHE  turned  and  looked  at  me.  Her  face 
'-'was  like  sculptured  marble.  Her  hair  was 
pale  cold  in  the  light  from  the  sky. 

"'Very  well,'  she  said.  'I'll  tell  you  my 
secret.  It's  so  simple,  really.'  She  paused  for 
a  moment.  Then  she  said  in  a  voice  I  could 
just  hear  above  the  pounding  of  the  surf:  T 
have  an  excellent  director.  He  tells  me  to  do 
this  and  to  do  that.  He  tells  me  to  make  love, 
to  laugh,  to  cry,  to  be  angry,  to  suffer,  to  tlirt, 
to  be  unhappy,  to  fall  down  and  die.  I  do  all 
these  things,  just  as  he  tells  me.  But  as  for 
myself,  I  feel  nothing.  I  feel  absolutely 
nothing.' 

"  She  got  up,  then,  and  without  another  word 
walked  into  her  house. 

■  I  sat,"  said  John,  "for  a  long  time  listening 
to  the  sound  of  the  waves  on  the  beach  and 
looking  at  that  other  unfathomable  mystery, 
the  Bt 


This  Odd  Chap 
Barrymore 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  32  ] 


corridors  to  his  room,  leering  and  grimacing 
horribly  at  nurses  he  encountered  on  the  way. 

Be  has  a  left  eyebrow  that's  remarkable.  It 
can  express  the  most  malevolent  thoughts. 
Barrymore  does  much  of  his  gesturing  with  it. 
And  with  this  eyebrow,  he  absolutely  terrified 
the  hospital  nurses.  And  so,  when  the  baby- 
arrived  the  middle  of  one  night,  it  was  with 
trepidation  and  fear  that  a  nurse  awakened 
Barrymore. 

He  sat  bolt  upright  and  waggled  the  eyebrow 
at  her. 

"What?"  he  roared. 

"Sir,"  she  quavered,  "you  have  a  baby 
daughter." 

Furiously  the  eyebrow  waggled. 

"SpicHdtif  he  bellowed  BO  that  the  hospital 
shook. 

And  then,  while  the  nurse  almost  fainted,  he 
turned  over  and  went  back  to  sleep! 

f*}NE  priceless  line  about  Barrymore  was 
^-'uttered  by  B  prop  boy  during  the  filming  of 
"Moby  Dick"  while  tons  of  water,  from  slosh 
boxes,  were  emptied  on  Barrymore  during  a 
storm  sequence.  Naturally,  be  swallowed  some 
of  the  water;  he  couldn't  help  it.  The  prop  boy 
remarked: 

"That's  more  water  than  Barrymore  has 
drunk  all  the  years  of  his  life!" 

Vet  the  truth  is  that  he  doesn't  drink  nearly 
as  much  as  he's  supposed  to.     Sometim. 
months  at  a  time  he  goes  on  the  wagon,  bone 
dry. 

IK  often  acts  drunk  to  get  rid  of  undesirable 
company! 

He  calls  prohibition  "the  blight."  He  con- 
tracted jungle  fever  on  a  recent  trip  on  his 
yacht  to  South  America.  The  jungle  fever 
assumes  such  a  form  that  Barrymore  cannot 
drink  while  suffering  from  it. 

Ami  it's  recurrent.  He's  trying  franticallv 
to  find  a  cure. 

\  achting,  profanity,  tabulation  and  acting 
aren't  his  only  accomplishments.  He's  also  an 
artist — in  colors  and  in  sketch — of  no  mean 
ability. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  descended  though  he 
was  from  the  famous  stage  family  of  Barry- 


KEEP 

A 

PACKAGE 

OF 

DOUBLE      MINT 

ON 
YOUR 

DRIVING 

TABLE 

Facial  Muscles,  same  as 
body  muscles,  need  exercise. 
Especially  is  this  true  of  the 
much  neglected  area  about 
the  mouth  where  the  first 
wrinkles  come.  The  gentle, 
natural  exercise  of  chewing 
DOUBLE  MINT  guides  the 
lips  in  a  graceful  curve.  It 
encourages  supple  yet  firm 
muscles  which  help  ward  off 
those  ugly  nose-to-mouth 
lines.  Chew  DOUBLE  MINT 
twice  daily.  It's  the  most 
perfect  Facial  in  the  world. 


^.WRICLEVS^ 


When  you  write  to  a.:.  ,-e  mention  PHOTOPLAY  II 


I  20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


BASE 


^svr^ 


*«  r,  BO«3»s 


Mothers— ^ 

don't  neglect 

your  child's  COUGH  or  COLD 

Try  this  milder  "counter-irritant" 


GOOD  old  Musterole  now  made 
milder  for  babies  and  small  chil- 
dren. So  pleasant  to  use  and  so  reliable — 
apply  Children's  Musterole  freely  to  the 
affected  area  once  every 
hour  for  five  hours. 

That's  the  safe,  sure 
treatment  that  millions 
of  mothers  and  leading 
doctors  and  nurses  recog- 
nize and  endorse. 

Musterole  gets  action 
because  it  is  a  "counter- 


CHILDREN'S 


MILD 


irritant"— not  just  a  salve — it  pene- 
trates and  stimulates  blood  circulation, 
helps  to  draw  out  infection  and  pain. 
That's  why  this  famous  blend  of  oil 
of  mustard,  camphor, 
menthol  and  other  help- 
ful ingredients  brings 
relief  naturally. 

Keep  full  strength 
Musterole  on  hand  for 
adults  and  Children's 
Musterole  for  the  little 
tots. 


Name. 


Address . 


PIN  MONEY 
FOR  OUR  READERS 


PHOTOPLAY  now  offers  its  readers  the  opportu- 
nity to  convert  their  spare  time  into  real  money  by 
becoming  its  subscription  representatives  in  the  town 
or  community  in  which  they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of  Photoplay,  will  be  quick  to 
realize  the  money-making  possibilities  this  offer  affords 
you.  Your  friends — your  neighbors — in  fact,  all  the 
homes  in  your  community — are  prospective  subscribers 
for  Photoplay.     Who,   today,  is  not  interested  in 

moving  pictures — the 
chief  recreation  of  the 
American  public? 

Be  the  first  in  your  com- 
munity to  take  advantage  of 
this  offer,  and  get  started  at 
once.  The  coupon  or  a  post 
card  will  bring  further  details. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 

Dept.  RE-3.  919  No.  Michigan  Ave., 

Chicago.  Ul. 

I  am  interested  in  your  money-making  offer 
to  your  reader?.    Send  me  the  details  at  once. 


City. 


.State. 


mores,  his  first  leaning  was  not  to  the  stage. 
He  started  as  a  newspaper  artist. 

His  father,  Maurice,  paid  for  his  tuition  in 
art  school  when  the  boy  said  he  wanted  to  be 
an  artist,  not  an  actor. 

He  went  only  once. 

His  father,  knowing  him,  commented  only: 
"  I  don't  understand  how  you  came  to  go  even 
once!" 

C^N'E  of  his  first  jobs  was  as  cartoonist  on  a 
^-'Xew  York  paper.  It  lasted  six  minutes. 

He  was  fired  when  he  submitted  his  first 
sketch. 

He  never  could  draw  feet,  so  he  always  stood 
his  characters  in  tall  grass.    He  does,  even  yet. 

He  sketches,  for  the  studio  make-up  and 
wardrobe  departments,  his  conception  of  how 
he  wants  to  look  in  the  characters  he  is  to  act — 
also  how  the  other  actors  should  look.  The 
make-up  and  clothing  departments  follow  these 
sketches. 

His  home  is  adorned  with  many  framed 
specimens  of  his  own  artistic  ability. 

He  tried  newspaper  reporting,  too,  before  he 
finally  took  to  the  stage.  Arthur  Brisbane  once 
fired  him  from  the  Ne»  York  Journal.  He  had 
a  friend,  another  improvident  reporter. 

When  both  were  broke,  which  was  often, 
the  friend  used  to  pawn  his  gold  tooth  for 
seventy  cents. 

Then  he  and  Barrymore  drank  up  the 
seventy  cents. 

Finally,  he  went  to  acting  and  following  the 
traditional  success  of  the  Barrymores.  He  has 
deserted  the  footlights  for  the  screen  for  the 
obvious  reasons — it  pays  more,  and  one  can 
stay  in  one  place  and  enjoy  life.  Bariymore 
enjoys  life.  But  he  professes  a  whole-hearted 
contempt  for  pictures  and  movie  methods.  Of 
the  filming  of  "  Moby  Dick,"  which  has  no  love 
story  in  the  book,  he  snorted:  "What!  No  love 
interest? — I  suppose  they'll  have  me  fall  in  love 
with  the  whale!" 

One  of  the  stage's  better  known  exponents  of 
Shakespeare,  he's  tired  of  being  asked  if  he'd 
ever  play  Hamlet  in  modern  clothes.  His  stock 
reply  is:  "No,  but  I'd  plav  King  Lear  in  the 
nude." 

He's  a  first-class  swordsman.  He  likes,  when 
shopping,  to  get  behind  store  counters  himself 
and  dispense  with  the  clerk's  services.  He  has 
a  violent  temper,  and  now  and  then  has  had  a 
fist  fight. 

T_TE'S  been  married  three  times.  When  he 
•^^■got  his  last  marriage  license,  to  wed  Dolores 
Costello.  he  set  his  age  down  at  forty-three. 
According  to  "Who's  Who,"  he  was  born 
February  15,  1882.  He  has  all  his  clothes  made 
in  London,  and  wears  them  sloppily.  He  has  a 
hat  which  he  has  owned  for  years.  It's  dirty, 
disreputable,  battered,  and  he  wears  it  in 
preference  to  all  others.  He  can  look  more  un- 
kempt than  anybody  else;  and  when  he's 
dressed  up,  he  can't  be  beaten  for  sartorial 
elegance. 

He  doesn't  like  to  buy  new  automobiles  and 
his  two  cars  are  several  years  old. 

He's  the  originator  of  the  "  Barrymore  col- 
lar" for  men — the  soft  one  with  the  ultra-long 
points. 

He  and  Dolores  do  no  entertaining  on  a  big 
scale,  although  he  often  has  friends  in  to  meals. 
His  friends  may  be  anj-body,  depending  not  on 
who  they  are,  but  whether  they  interest  him  or 
not. 

Once,  Winston  Churchill  whom  he'd  met 
in  England  visited  him  at  the  Warner  studios. 

Bariymore  welcomed  him,  had  him  taken  on 
the  set.  When  the  scene  was  done,  Barrymore 
escorted  Winston  Churchill  across  the  set, 
before  director,  assistant,  featured  players  and 
all.  and  presented  him  to  "Tiny  Jones,"  a  little 
unimportant  Welsh  character  actress  for  whom 
John  had  conceived  a  fondness.  She  was 
flustered  to  death,  of  course.  And  then  Barn- 
more  led  Winston  Churchill  right  back  again  to 
the  studio  gates,  ignoring  everybody  else — 
executives  to  camera  boys — and  bade  him 
good-bye. 

Barn-more    and     Tiny    Jones     were     the 


Every  advertisement  in  TIIOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Magazini   rot  March,  1931 


I  2  l 


on|y  two  people  <>ii  tin-  whole  lot  who  mel  the 

in! 

Bi  [di    \.u  liinu'.  Banymore'i  I  >• 

eon  shooting.  \\  hen  he'i  thinking 
deeply,  be  plays  with  his  nose  n  favorite 
music  m  -i  piece  called  "Canadian  Caper*. "  He 
heard  it  y<  i  a  phonograph  record,  and 

since  then  has  bought  many  records  of  the 
same  piece.  He  plays  it  out  on  the  ■ 
alone,  taking  .1  portable  phonograph  and  re<  ord 
out  iii  .i  dory  with  him,  oS  his  y.u  tit  He  baa 
tried,  thus  far  in  vain,  to  have  "Canadian 
Capers"  played  in  the  background  ol  every 
sound  pfe  ture  he's  worked  in.  It  approai  bea  a 
superstition. 

HE  thinks  his  sister  Ethel  and  bis  wife 
Dolores  are  the  grandest  women  on  earth. 
il,    h \ ts.  outdoors  a  great  deal  but  is  not 

robust  in  health      He  Catches  COW  very  easily. 

lie    doesn't    eare    much    about    what    bl 

unless  he's  put  on  a  diet  by  his  physician.   I  hen 

lie  hales  the  diet  lie  likes  to  he  photographed 
with  a  pipe,  hut  smokes  only  cigarettes  tor 
enjoyment 

lie  will  not  have  a  photograph  taken  show- 
ing only  the  right  side  of  his  face  because  he 

thinks  his  left  is  the  "good"  side. 

Sometimes  he  has  a  moustache,  sometimes 

not,  and  it  varies  in  si/.e  and  shape  with  his 
mood. 

He  has  worn  a  heard  not  infrequently, 
slightly  gray. 

His  hands  are  unusually  huge  and  rough, 
and  his  fingernails  almost  always  need  mani- 
curing but  don't  get  it. 

His  real  name  is  not  John  Harryniore.  It  is 
John  Blythe. 

Hut  his  wife  calls  him  "Winkie." 

And  he  calls  her  "Shrimp." 


A  human  dynamo  and  he  looks  it.  Energy,  plus.  Well 
groomed  —  meaning  not  only  smartly  dressed,  but  also 
a  well-kept  body  under  his  clothes.  The  very  type  of 
man  who  after  his  morning  or  evening  shower  sprinkles 
himself  freely  with  that  soothing,  pleasant  powder: 
VI VAUDOU... MAVIS. ..TALCUM. 
Mavis  Talcum  is  rather  a  blessing  to  vigorous,  active 
men  because  it  holds  them  altogether  free  from  unpleas- 
ant body  irritation  and  the  annoying  effects  of  chafing. 

,A#/fYr  inv  mom  ana  .s/km.-<>»-    Ulan.*    L^ocestm  cJwcaer 


Los  Angeles 


V.    VIVAUDOU,     Inc. 
Pari*     .  New  York         .    .     Chicago 


.    Toronto 


What  a  gown,  and  what  a  girl! 
Little  Joan  Marsh  wears  this 
creation  of  apricot  satin  in  the 
new  Joan  Crawford  picture, 
"Dance  Fools,  Dance."  Who 
wouldn't  dance  for  Miss  Joan? 


When  you  KTile  to  advertisers  please  mention  I'lIOTOl'LAY  MAGAZINE. 


I  22 


Photoplay  Magazine  kok  March,  1931 


RECOGNIZE 
THESE  EYES? 

Hi 


Tln-ir  owner  18  a  First  National  Pictures  star 
irhow  futlirr  and  wife  are  both  film  favorites. 
Ilorn  in  1907,  he's  6  feet  tall,  weighs  150  pounds, 
and  has  blue  eyes  and  light  hair.  Name  below*. 

clear  eyes  are 
a  social  asset! 

Yes,  and  a  business  one,  too! 
There's  no  denying  the  fact  that 
clear,  bright  eyes  make  a  far 
better  impression  than  do  those 
which  are  dull  and  bloodshot. 
Start  now  to  have  more  attrac- 
tive eyes  by  using  Murine  each 
night  and  morning.  It  harm- 
lessly clears  up  any  bloodshot 
condition  and  imparts  new 
lustre  to  the  dullest  eyes. 
60c  at  drug  and  department 
stores  everywhere.  Try  it! 

*Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr. 


•m 


f-oR  Your 


THESE  BOATS  KNOW 
HOW   TO    BEHAVE/ 


This  Old  Town  won't  cut  capers 
when  she's  loaded  with  a  bunch  of 
fidgety  kids!  She's  steady  as  an  ox 
—  but  swift  as  a  swallow!  Safety, 
speed,  economy,  and  durability  are 
yours  in  an  Old  Town.  Extra-rigid 
ribs  and  keel.  Strongly  braced  stern 
to  hold  the  weight  of  a  motor.  No 
vibration  or  shaking.  No  caulking, 
either.  The  non-leak,  seamless  can- 
vas-covering can't  open  up! 

Free  catalog  shows  all  models 
and  prices.  Also  rowboats;  canoes; 
dinghies;  big,  fast,  all- wood,  out- 
board family-boats,  and  speedy  step- 
planes.  Write  today.  Old  Town  Canoe 
Co.,  223  Main  St.,  Old  Town,  Maine. 

'Old  Town  Boats" 


Boo!  It's  Only 
Hollywood! 


[CONTINUED  PROM  pace  84  ] 

you'd  be  simply  out  of  luck.  Of  course,  there 
are  so-called  "glass  shots,"  "Williams  shots" 
and  the  like,  but  even  these  necessitated  con- 
struction and  much  juggling  about,  and  were 
limited  in  their  application. 

npIIK  Dunnings  do  the  thing  more  simply. 
*  You  dig  up  for  them  a  stock  shot  of  the  Taj 
Mahal  from  a  film  library  or  from  a  news  reel 
and  turn  it  over  to  these  new  magicians.  They 
make  what  they  call  a  transparent  "plate" 
from  it,  which  plate  contains  a  positive  image 
of  red  tint  and  a  negative  image  of  neutral 
gray.  An  ordinary  motion  picture  camera 
with  double  magazines  is  brought  into  play, 
and  into  this  go  unexposed  film  in  actual  con- 
tact and  behind  the  transparent  plate. 

Xow  a  foreground  is  built  in  the  studio — 
merely  a  length  of  pavement  of  the  proper 
design  in  this  case — and  your  three  characters 
go  through  the  necessary  action  to  take  them 
through  the  entrance  into  the  building.  The 
result  is  achieved  by  supplying  a  blue  back- 
ground for  this  part  of  the  picture.  The  figures 
and  their  foreground  are  illuminated  by  strong 
white  light,  and  the  blue  backing  by  powerful 
flood  lights. 

The  result  is  that  the  transparent  plate  be- 
comes a  filter  which  passes  the  white  light 
reflected  from  the  figures  through  to  the  un- 
exposed film,  and  by  means  of  the  reflected  blue 
light  prints  the  image  of  the  Taj  Mahal  on  it  at 
the  same  time.  Both  images  print  together 
and  of  equal  intensity,  so  that  the  result  is  a 
new  negative  on  which  both  images — perhaps 
taken  months  or  even  years  apart — are  re- 
printed simultaneously'  and  in  perfect  composi- 
tion. The  cost  is  less  than  a  tenth  of  the 
expense  of  sending  your  players  off  to  India. 

Bearing  this  in  mind,  here's  how  the  foreign- 
language  film  business  of  Hollywood  is  being 
rescued  from  the  deluge  of  red  ink  that 
splotches  its  accounts: 

An  English  language  talkie — "Beau  Ideal," 
for  example — is  made  in  Hollywood  and 
Arizona  at  a  cost  of  half  a  million  or  more.  It 
is  desired  to  have  a  German,  French  and 
Italian  version  of  it.  Ordinarily  the  whole  of 
the  dialogue  portion  would  be  remade  with 
casts  appropriate  to  each  language,  and  eventu- 
ally large  concourses  of  people  in  all  three 
countries  would  sneer  snootily.  But  along 
come  the  Dunning  cohorts,  and  wherever  there 
is  specific  close-up  action  in  which  the  new  char- 
acters speaking  the  foreign  language  appear, 
the  camera  records  the  background  or  distant 
action  without  the  principals.  This  is  merely  an 
extra  negative  without  the  principal  characters, 
and  from  this  the  Dunnings  make  their  trans- 
parent plate. 

r\JO\Y,  you  have  on  this  transparency  all  the 
■L^  scenic  and  production  effects.  This  is  sent 
off  to  Berlin,  Paris  or  Rome  with  one  of  the 
Dunning  crew,  together  with  a  print  of  the 
original  picture  for  reference.  New  German 
characters  are  engaged  and  the  director  merely 
repeats  his  original  important  scenes  with  them 
using  German  language,  of  course,  against  the 
blue  background. 

Later  the  new  composite  negative  is  incor- 
porated or  "cut  in"  to  the  original  foreign 
negative  where  necessary,  and  if  the  Germans 
don't  like  the  result  they  will  have  to  put  the 
responsibility  on  their  own  players,  for  these 
are  doing  their  own  talking.  Just  duplicate  all 
this  with  the  French,  Spanish  and  Italian 
versions.  If  the  Argentinians  are  very'  par- 
ticular they  can  do  their  own  talking  in  Buenos 
Aires — if  they're  willing  to  provide  the  simple 
facilities. 

You  see  that  the  foreign  language  problem 
disappears  at  once;  the  Hollywood  producers 


CORNS 


Pain  Stops  at  Once 

You  will  be  amazed  how  quick  is 
your  relief  when  you  apply  Dr. 
Scholl's  Zino-pads  to 
corns  or  sore  toes.  In 
one  minute  pain  is 
gone  —  forgotten  ! 

This  instant  action  is  pro- 
duced  by  the  soothing, 
healing  medication  in 
Zino-pads.  Theycushion 
and  protect  thesorespot, 
completely  removing  the 
cause  —  shoe    pressure. 

100%   SAFE 

Zino-pads  are  safe,  sure. 
Using  harsh   liquids   or 

Elastersoften  causes  acid 
urn.  Cutti  ng  your  corns 
or  callouses!  nvites  blood  • 
poisoning.  Zino-pads  are 
small, thin,dainty.  Made 
in  special  sizes  for  Corns, 
Corns  between  toes,  Cal- 
louses and  Bunions.  Sold 
everywhere — 35c  box. 

DrScholFT 
Zino-pads 

Put  one  on— the  'pain  is  gone! 

HAVE  SHAPELY  LIMBS  .  .  pair  $6.75 
OR    SLENDER    ANKLES  .  .  pair  $5.00 

Relieve  swelling  or  varicose  veins  and  re- 
duce your  limbs  with  DR.  WALTER'S 
famous  medicated  (flesh  colored)  gum  rub- 
ber hose. 

Worn  next  to  the  skin  they  fit  like  a  glove 
and  you  can  see  the  Improvement  at  once. 
For  over  25  years  they  have  helped  thou 
sands  of  people,  and  are  worn  all  over 
the  world.  Send  ankle  and  calf  meas- 
ure. Pay  by  check  or  money  order  (no 
cash)  or  pay  postman.  Write  for  booklet. 
Dr.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER 
389  Fifth  Ave..  New  York 

IjjckyTicer 

WUR  UNO  SCALP  — ■ 

single  bottle  corrects  scalp  irrita- 
tions; a  Proven  Germicide,  deli- 
cately perfumed;  safe  foradults 
and  children.  World's  largest  seller  at 
Druggists,  Barbers  Beauty  Parlors. 


EBH333H3 


MB*  'S  Drama-Dance 

J    »■»  *  Musical  Comedy,  Stare  and  Concert  Dancmc.  Talkinr 

Pictures.  Elocution.  Personal  Development.  Stock 
Theatre  Traininc  appearances  while  learnin*.  Pupils,  Mary  Pickford, 
Lee  Tracy.   Fred  and  Adele  Astaire.  etc.     Catalog   16. 

Irwin.  AlTlene  University,  66  W.  85th  St..  New  York 


ijtiff 

W^W'    HOME 


Lincoln  did  it!  Also  thousands  of  other 
great  lawyers,  politicals  and  business 
men.  YOU.  too,  can  become  a  lawyer  or 
law  trained  business  man  throturh  borne 
study  (raided  by  the  successful  practicing 
lawyers  of  our  faculty.  Write  today  for 
free  book. 

American  Cory.  School  ol  Law.  3601 
Michigan  Ave.,  Dept.   1253.  Chicago 


Eren  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  \b  guaranteed. 


PH0T0P1  w     M  tGAZINl     1  OS    M  Utl  n,    1       1 


I  2  J 


rule  em  e  more;  tin-  -.t n. li.>s  get  rid  of 
tin  ii  Incubus;  the  foreign  picture  patron 

more   or   lr^   -..iti.tied      or,   .it    le.i^t,   ,uo   in   .i 

situation  when  they  cnn'l  complain  too  hard; 
money  i->  ia\  ed  in  lane  amounts,  and  the  only 
people  who  remain  dissatisfied  are  the  fo 
language  players,  fot  whom  .i  prospect  of  even 
leaner  days  looms  up 
Km  neone,  can't  you  till  the  differ- 

between  t hi ^  Dunning  business  and  an 
original  picture?    Well,  suppose  you  be  the 
You  may  recall  "Anna  Christie"  and 
those  marvelous  harbor  scenes  on  the  i 

and  on  the  barge.     The  water  back- 
grounds and  shipping  were  made  by  a  camera- 
who  cruised  up  and  down  the  East  River 
i  k  on  a  tugboat    His  ne  :.iti\  e  came 
on  to  Hollywood  and  .i  transparent  plate  of  it 
w.i>  made.    Then  Greta  Garbo,  Marie  Dn 

■  Marion  and  Charles  Bickford  went 
through  the  action  on  a  nice  dry  sound  stage  in 
Culver  City  a  month  or  so  utter,  which  co- 
incidental!)  ■■  i  Dunninged"  into  the  original 
background. 

A\  I  >  v  on  n  5uch  Men  Are  Danger- 

ous "  Do  you  remember  that  thrillingscene 
when-  Warner  Baxter  opens  the  door  of  his 
cabin  monoplane  and  looks  down  on  London 
with  the  Tower  Bridge,  Westminster,  and  the 
Thames     Embankment     swirling     beneath? 
Didn't  notice  anything  "fakey"  about  that,  of 
ie,  l>ut  it  was  handled  by  the  Dunninsson 
a  Fox  sound  stage  at  Fox  Hills,  usins»  an  air- 
plane >tiH'k  shot  from  a  London  film  library. 
If  you  saw  "Just  Imagine"  you  will  recall 
irre  shots  on  the  planet   Mars. 
The  airship  or  rocket  ship  scenes  were  Dunning 

Again,  in  "The  Last  of  the  Dunnes, 
the  thrilling  log  jam  sequence  was  a  Dunning 
shot  in  its  entirety.  The  jam  itself  v 
miniature  shot  made  at  Fox  Hills,  and  the 
foreground  scenes  made  on  what  the  I  '^ 
people  call  their  '"trick  >tai;e."  And  there  was 
the  realistic  dirigible  smash-up  on  the  ice  in 
''The  Lottery  Bride,"  in  which  the  ice  scenes 
were  made  at  one  period,  outdoors,  and  the 
dirigible  model  on  an  ordinary  sound  Stage,  the 
posed"  together  in  the  process 
laboratory.  Summed  up,  the  famed  ''art"  of 
the  movies  without  the  engineer  and  the  labora- 
tory would  be  as  effective  as  a  portrait  painter 
without  brush  or  canvas. 

It  requires  I'.disons.  Eastmans  and  Dunnings 
to  bring  the  cinema  art  into  existence! 


positions  are  the  targets  of  Holly-wood's  sharp- 
sharpshooters. 

It  has  come  to  be  a  truism  in  motion  picture 
circles  that  uneasy  lies  the  head  that  earns 
$100  and  up  a  week.  It's  always  open  season 
on  the  other  fellow's  job,  and  often  a  few 
months'  salary  is  a  few  years'  salary,  too.  The 
most  omnipresent  joker  in  film  work  is  not  the 
weeks  when  there  arc  pay  checks,  but  the 
months  when  there  aren't. 

Progressing  to  the  inside  of  the  studio,  you 
perhaps  will  pass  the  wardrobe  and  the  tech- 
nical departments.  In  the  former,  the  head 
costume  designer  receives  from  $150  to  S.i50  a 
week,  though  it  takes  a  liberal  education  in 
both  Xew  York  and  London  even  to  approach 
the  latter  figure.  The  assistant  designers  are 
paid  from  $60  to  $125.  and  the  other  wardrobe 
girls  get  about  the  same  as  seamstresses  else- 
where, from  $18  to  S22.50.  But — there  are 
fifty  seamstresses  to  every  designer,  of  course. 

In  the  technical  department  are  the  set  de- 
signers, engineers,  and  draughtsmen.  Here, 
again,  the  same  condition  prevails,  with  the 
head  of  the  department  drawing  an  actor's 
salary  and  his  assistants  nominal  sums,  but 
any  of  them  could  do  at  least  as  well  financially 
in  any  similar  position.  A  famous  Beverly- 
Hills  architect  designs  ten  per  cent  of  homes 


HER   TRAINING    TABLE    IS   AT 
THE   "RITZ"  ...  YET  SHE   HAS 

?ATIILETF/S  FOOT' 


SHE  ili m-s  a  il.iilv  mara- 
thon of  calls  and  social 
duties  in  a  motor  car.  Sin"-. 
.!■  1 1  v  e  in  charities  and  tin- 
plans  of  tin-  Vaungec  S«  t. 
Vituralk ,  this  takes  a  good 

■  I'll  .if  running  around  —  but 
Seldom  with  lier  feet. 

i"  et  this  charming  mem- 
ber of  the  lumt-tnnrulc  has  an 
unmistakable  r.i-e  of  "  \tb- 
I. rte's  Foot."  Not  that  she 
knows  what  it  i>.  She  only 
realizes  that  lier  nicety  is 
offended  by  a  strange,  moist 

whiteness  between  her  little 

toes.  And,  like  a  breath  of 
scandal  on  the  dainty   feet, 

there  is  even  itching.  If  she 

only  knew  it,  millions  of 
other  immaculate  people 
have  been  afflicted  with  this 
same  infection. 

Are  YOU  guarding  against  this  stealthy 
infection,  so  easily  tracked  into  homes? 

"Athlete's  Foot"  may  attack  any  of  us 
because,  unlike  most  diseases,  it  persists  in 
the  cleanest  places.  A  tiny  vegetable  para- 
site, tinea  trichophyton,  generally  causes 
this  ringworm  infection  and  it  thrives  on 
the  edges  of  showers  and  swimming  pools; 
on  locker-  and  dressing-room  floors;  in 
gymnasiums.  And  from  all  these  places 
it  is  continually  tracked  into  countless 
homes.  It  may  live  and  thrive  for  months 
in  your  own  spick-and-span  bathroom;  and 
it  causes  infection  and  re-infection  with 
great  persistence.  In  fact  the  U.  S.  Public 
Health  Service  has  reported  that  ''probably 
half  of  all  adults  suffer  from  ringworm  at 
some  time.'''' 

It  has  been  found  that  Ahsorbine  Jr. 
KILLS  this  ringworm  germ 

"  Vthlete's  Foot"  may  start  in  a  number  of 
different  ways.  Sometimes  by  redness 
between  the  toes;  sometimes  tiny,  itching 

blisters.  Again,  the  skin  may  turn  while. 


Absorbine  m  Jf 

FOR  YEARS  HAS  RELIEVED 
SO«C  MUSCIES,  MUSCULAR 
ACHES.  tlUISES.  IURNS. 
CUTS.     SPRAINS       AIRASIONS 


thick  and  moir-t;  or  it  may  develop  dryness, 
with  little  scales  or  skin-cracks.  All  of 
these  conditions,  it  is  agreed,  are  generally 
caused  by  the  ringworm  germ.  And  ex- 
haustive laboratory  tests  have  show  n  that 
Absorbine  Jr.  penetrates  fleshlike  rissnes 
deeply,  and  wherever  it  penetrates  it  kills 
the  ringworm  germ.  Results  in  actual 
cases  confirm  these  laboratory  tests. 

Examine  your  feet  tonight  far  symptoms 
of  "Athlete's  loot.""  At  the  first  sL-n  of 
any  one  symptom,  begin  the  tree  use  of 
Absorbine  Jr. — douse  it  on  morning  and 
night  and  after  ncrv  exposure  of  your  ban 
fret  on  damp  floors.  If  tin-  infection  does 
not  yield  quickh  .  Bee  yotn  doctor. 

SPECIAL    WINTER    TREATMENT 

"\lhlrtr**  Fool"  «h>r<»n*t  oprrarl  no  easily  in 
trttttar.    Hul    llir   crrm    can    hihernate  i  n    >our 

home*   \«>\»  "•*  ;i  good   t  i  mr   to  ri«l   \  aanal  f  of 

•ourrc«*  of  rr-infrct  ion.    Do  tlirsr  thine*  now: 
(1)    Sprinklr     \lf...rl>inc    Jr.    on    your    toe* 

rvrry    iiiiirniii^'    ;in«l    rwnio;;. 
(-)    If  y  nu  v>p.ir  «im  L  «  or  «t  orkiniz*  (hat  rati 

he  boBot&i   boil  them   15  minulM  to  kill 

thi*  har<l>  crrm. 
(3)    Sprinklr    \h-»orhinc  Jr.  Ecncron  «*It 

fatolmW  >our  oIMrM  at  nir:ht. 

\l>-<>rbine  Jr.  has  hern  BO  effective  that 
wilmliliilni  arr  gome  times  offered.  Don't 
expect  relief  from  ft  "joet  as  good."  There 
U  nothing  dec  Eke  Absorbine  Jr.  ^  oa  can 
pet  it  at  all  drag  stores— $1.25  a  bottle. 
For  a  free  niMiplf.  write  W.  F.  ^  oangf  Inc., 
17')  Ljnian  Street,  Springfield,  Mass. 


Wben  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PIIOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


I24 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


TO  IVOMES 


this 

little 
secret! 


Not    a    soul 
v/ill   know    just 
'    what  you  have  done 
'•   f  to  make  your  hair 
so  lovely!    Certainly 
nobody  would  dream 
that  a  single  shampoo- 
ing could  add  such  beau- 
ty—such delightful  lustre 
—such  exquisite  soft  tones! 
A  secret  indeed. —  a  beauty 
specialist's   secret!     But  you 
may  share  it!     Just  one  Golden 
Glint  Shampoo*  will   show  you 
'/,  /  the  way!     25c,  at  your  dealers',  or 
-f  •  send  for  free  sample. 
/      (*Note:   Do  not  confuse  this  -with  other  sham- 
*  poos  that  merely  cleanse.      Golden  Glint  Shampoo 
/  in  addition  to  cleansing,  gives  your  hair  a  "tiny- 
g  tint"— a  wee  little bit—  not much— hardly  perceptible. 
/.*   But  how  it  does  bring  out  the  true  beauty  of  your  own 
•  individual  shade  of  hair!) 

MAIL   COUPON   NOW    

J.    W.  KOBI  CO.   630  Rainier  Ave..  Dept.  C 
Seattle,  Wash.    •  •  •  *  *  Please  send  a  free  sample. 

Name ■ — 

Address 

City State 


Color  of  my  hair. 


She  hated  to 
embarrass  him,  but  — 

— sKe  jujt  couldn't  dance  another  step.  Of  course, 
it  wit  «n  accident,  but  that  one  slight  touch  had 
jtven  her  umpeakable  pain. 

Don't  let  a  corn  rob  you  of  your  good  timet. 

Relief  is  so  quick — so  easy.  All  druggists  have  this 

famous   old   remedy   in    convenient,    35<    packages. 

M.d.  hy  lh«  -iVunu'll-l  of  Koklcr  Afli.doK 

KOHLER  MANUFACTURING  COMPANY 

BALTIMORE,   MARYLAND 


!/2e/noves-/tot  o/i/y  relieves  pain' 

Mercolized  Wax 
Keeps  Skin  Young 

Absorb  all  blemishes  and  discoloration*  by  regularly  using 
Dure  Mercolized  Wax.  Get  an  ounce,  and  use  as  directed. 
rine,  almost  invisible  particlesoi  aged  skin  fleck  off,  until  all 
defects,  such  as  pimples,  liver  spots,  tan.  freckles  and  large 
pores  ha  ye  disappeared.  Skin  is  beautifully  clear,  soft  and 
velvety,  and  face  looks  years  younger.  Mercolizcl  Wax 
brings  out  the  hidden  beauty.  To  quickly  reduce  wrink- 
les  and  other  age  lines,  use  this  face  lotion:  1  ounce  Pow- 
dered Saxolitc  and  1  half  niul  witch  hazel.  At  drug  stores. 


that  cost  sometimes  as  high  as  $500,000,  and 
although  be  isn't  half  as  celebrated  as  several 
of  Hollywood's  best  studio  architects,  he  makes 
many  times  as  much  money  as  any  of  them. 

The  laboring  man,  at  a  studio,  suffers  all  the 
uncertainty  of  the  theatrical  profession  with- 
out enjoying  any  of  its  benefits.  Actors  and 
actresses  may  work  only  part  of  the  time,  but 
they  draw  large  salaries  when  they  do  work; 
the  carpenter,  the  plasterer,  the  electrician  and 
the  other  trades  have  no  such  consolation. 
They  get  the  local  scale,  in  cents  per  hour,  just 
the  same  as  those  on  the  outside  steadily  em- 
ployed building  houses  or  chicken-coops. 

A  WORKMAN  who  averages  eight  months 
•*»-steady  work  at  a  studio  out  of  a  year  has 
cause  to  congratulate  himself.  Shut-downs, 
lay-offs,  and  lost  time  apply  to  the  rank  and  file 
in  all  departments  even  more  than  to  the  ex- 
ecutives, stars,  and  directors,  most  of  whom 
work  under  contracts  specifying  the  minimum 
number  of  weeks  per  year  for  which  they  shall 
receive  salary,  whether  they  work  or  not. 

But  again,  for  every  such  contract  worker 
there  are  at  least  one  hundred  laborers. 

On  the  set  itself  there  are,  of  course,  the  cast 
and  the  director,  surrounded  by  a  host  of 
technicians.  The  head  cameraman  is  paid  any- 
where from  $175  to  $750  a  week,  but  he,  too, 
is  often  weeks  "between"  pictures,  without 
pay.  So  are  his  second  cameramen,  who  make 
from  $75  to  around  $150.  And  so  are  the  slate- 
boys,  at  $25  to  $35,  and  the  "grips,"  who,  like 
the  other  carpenters,  make  around  sixty  cents 
an  hour. 

When  sound  first  came  into  vogue  the 
"mixer"  and  his  crew  were  magicians  and  paid 
as  such.  Now  he  averages  about  $75  to  $100 
a  week — when  he  works.  His  assistants  earn 
from  $50  to  $60  a  week,  all  figured  by  the  hour. 
The  sound  supervisor  is  the  only  man  in  that 
department  who  makes  any  money  now,  vary- 
ing from  $150  to  $500  a  week. 

The  prop  man  is  a  tragedy  unto  himself. 
After  a  lifetime  usually  spent  as  a  theatrical 
trouper,  he  makes  less  money  than  the  average 
baggage  smasher — and  works  harder  than  any- 
body in  the  studio.  He  gets  from  as  little  as 
$17.50  to  as  much  as  $35  a  week,  possibly  six 
weeks  out  of  ten. 

When  a  picture  is  in  production,  there  is  no 
such  thing  as  an  eight-  ten-  or  twelve-hour  day. 
The  trades  are  paid  overtime,  of  course,  or 
another  shift  used;  but  everybody  else  seems 
to  work  the  harder  knowing  that  they  must 
inevitably  be  "through"  or  laid  off  the  sooner. 

During  the  filming  of  "The  King  of  Jazz," 
for  instance,  everybody  in  the  troupe  averaged 
eighteen  hours  a  day,  seven  days  a  week,  for 
three  months.  They  worked  like  beavers, 
everybody  driving  everybody  else.  As  soon  as 
the  last  scene  was  shot,  every  salary  ceased, 
and  some  of  them  haven't  begun  again. 

Easy  money? 

HOLLYWOOD  is  a  magical  city,  the  birth- 
place of  many  magical  things.  But  it 
isn't  the  end  of  the  rainbow,  save  for  the 
fortunate  few.  Even  for  them,  the  period  dur- 
ing which  the  goose  lays  the  golden  eggs  is 
usually  short.  There  are  in  Hollywood  but 
forty-two  full-fledged  stars,  anyhow,  and  how- 
many  of  them  who  were  stars  yesterday  will 
be  stars  tomorrow? 

Most  of  them  were  years  reaching  stardom, 
and  even  the  salaries  they  receive  now  don't 
average  so  much  over  that  period  of  years. 
Then,  when  they  no  longer  get  such  sums,  how 
many  of  them  will  be  content  with  moderate 
salaries  after  having  accustomed  themselves  to 
living  as  stars  seem  to  think  they  must? 

Those  years  to  come,  those  years  after  they 
arc  through,  must  be  averaged  in,  too.  And 
even  during  the  height  of  their  fame  and  earn- 
ing power,  many  a  poor  starlet  wonders  from 
month  to  month  where  the  next  payment  on 
her  income  tax  is  coming  from,  not  to  mention 
the  robin's-egg  blue  Rolls-Royce!  Those  who 
save  and  invest  are  sensible — but  what  they 
earn  from  that  isn't  movie  money. 


COLDS 

FIGHT  THEM  OFF  WITH 
THIS  LAXATIVE  QUININE 


These  tablets  have  been  the 

world's  most  popular  remedy 

ior  41  years!  At  all  drug  stores. 

Go  out  in  bad  weather  if  you  must,  but  go  in- 
to the  drug  store  on  your  way  back  for  this 
safe,  dependable  cold  remedy.  It  takes  both 
a  body  tonic  and  a  laxative  to  check  colds 
and  headaches  quickly  and  comfortably.  You 
get  both  in  Grove's  Laxative  BROMO 
QUININE  Tablets.    Use  them.   Keep  welL 

GrOVe'S   Laxative 

'BROMO* 
QUININE 

Table  ts 


Hotel 
mbassador 

The  Ambassador 
Hotel  is  represent- 
ative of  everything 
that  the  finest 
hostelry  can  be  in 
location,  charm,  ex- 
cellence of  menus 
and  service. 

There  are  always 
celebrities  of  the 
screen  world  at 
The  Ambassador. 
It  is  in  the  social 
center  on  one  of 
the  world's  most 
famous  thorough- 
fares. 

NEW     YOUK 

■    PARK   AVE  NUE 
AT  51st  STREET 

ATLANTIC  CITY-  PALM  BEACH  ■  LOS  ANGELES 


Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


PH0T0FLA1    MaCAXINI    mi;    M  \Ki  ii,    1931 


i  m  ,  ours*,  tii.  v  cbOdreo  'it  fortune 

irho  have  been  trailed  to  tfioeact  upon  tin- 
breese.    Uut  for  every  one  "t  than  tha 
tea  thousand  wlio  nuke  application  .it  the 
stenographic  department,  at  the  wardrobe  dc 
paxtment,  at  th  ffice  and  switchboard 

tor  any  kind  "t  job     lli.it'-.  why  tin-  «.utre*ets 
in  the  cafes  and  the  i  U-rk^  in  tin-  drugstores  are 

!tv. 

Hu>  thought  that  it  wae< 
until  they  found  out  bow  ban  it 
even  .1  little  ol  it! 


short    roiili* 


Unbeatable  Betty 


125 

to 


w 

>lv  ill.  had  .1  famQy  to  1  .ir<-  ior.  and  1 
illy  I'w  his  job    So  Betty  forthwith  upeel 
all  rules  atul  precedent,  and  worked  under  hoi 
li^ht*  ior  six  hours  in  clothes  slu-  didn't  own 

Then  she  reverted  to  her  rule  and  hasn't 
broken  it  since.    She  helps  orphans,  too, 

ON'  her  living  room  table  is  a  handsome  Iwx 
it.  and  you'll  find  the  frowsiest  codec 

tion  of  tinfoil  that  you've  ever  seen.  She  col- 
lects it  and  expects  her  friends  to  give  her  all 
they  can  save  When  she  gets  a  heavy  ball  of 
it.  she  sends  it  to  a  Denver  orphanage,  of 
which  a  relative  is  an  official    They  sell  it 

She's  always  pestering  people  at  the  studio. 

1  save  tinfoil  for  her  orphans! — prop  men. 

grips,  still  men.  stars,  directors,  all  get  asked 

.  e  the  foil  from  their  cigarettes  and  cigars 

for  Betty. 

Every  once  in  a  while,  when  there  was  a 
party  at  the  Compson  place,  Betty  would  say: 

"Well,  whaddayou  say  we  help  the  orphans?" 

Everybody  agreed.  So  Betty  sends  the 
butler  for  a  bottle  or  two  of  something,  ami 
the  tinfoil  goes  into  the  orphans'  box.  Talking 
about  butlers.  Betty  had  to  fire  one  once  be- 
cause he  helped  the  orphans  too  much  himself 

This  all  sounds  as  though  Betty's  a  rather 
wild  person,  doesn't  it?  Well,  don't  get  her 
wrong.     She's  regular — but  she's  real,  too. 

Thirty-three  years  old,  Betty  is,  and  in  those 
thirty-three  years  she's  known  poverty  and 
want.  She  achieved  what  she  has  by  her  own 
efforts.  And  in  that  t'mht.  she's  learned  that 
life  isn't  all  good  or  all  bad;  and  that  people 
are  like  that.  too.  There's  nothing  brilliant  or 
novel  about  that  philosophy,  of  course — but  so 
many  people  never  do  seem  to  learn  it. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  Betty  actually  loves  her 
work  and  her  home.  Work  is  paramount  to  her. 
She  loves  making  pictures,  and  she's  willing  to 
make  any  sacrifice  to  maintain  her  stardom. 
You  know,  when  she  married  Jim  Cruze  and 
went  domestic,  her  weight  rose  to  135.  Well. 
135  for  Hetty's  height  is  too  much.  When  she 
went  back  to  pictures,  she  had  to  reduce. 

PI'i  MM. I",  around  the  Compson  place  began  to 
be  startled,  mornings,  by  seeing  a  female 
dashing  about  in  bathing  suit  or  running 

They'd  look  out  and  mutter: 

•  rhere  a  -  that  crazy  woman  again,  run- 
nin'  around  half  naked!'' 

It  was  Betty,  of  course,  reducing.  She 
brought  her  weight  down  to  108,  and  is  keeping 
it  there  because  she  has  a  horror  of  ever  having 
to  do  it  all  over  again.  She  hates  exercise,  any- 
way. Swimming  is  about  the  only  form  of 
athletic  diversion  she  goes  in  for,  and  not  too 
much  of  that,  either.  For  pastime,  she'd  rather 
read.  She  reads  a  lot,  and  her  tastes  are  diver- 
sified— classics  or  popular  stuff. 

Superstitious?  Yes — about  as  much  as  any- 
ordinary  person.  Knocks  wood  for  luck  and 
things  like  that.    Just  like  you  or  me. 

Success  hasn't  gone  to  her  head,  either.  I've 
told  you  how  she  likes  people  because  she  likes 
them — and  not  because  they  may  be  famous  or 
rich.  She  keeps  appointments,  too — and  that's 
SOMEthing  in  movieland.  The  biggest  role  of 
her  career  came  because  she  kept  instead  of 
breaking  a  date. 


and  a  sure 
one 


ilailv  use  of  this 


vJ&cwajtceti   ^/Lazfrc 


AS  YOU  have  probably  discovered,  a 
■**■  face  that  isn't  cared  for  regularly 
soon  advertises  its  neglect.  Skin  — 
to  stay  beautiful — needs  a  deep,  thor- 
ough cleansing  every  day.  It  needs  to 
be  protected  against  roughness,  the 
texture  kept  smooth  and  fresh.  Rather 
an  arduous  program  for  the  busy 
woman,  isn't  it?  I  ulr— -lueombinesall 
rites  in  one  by  using  a  balanced  cream. 

I"  iggett  &  Ramsdell's  Perfect  Cold 

( '1  ram  lias  en  joyed  forty  \  ears  of  fem- 
inine demand  because  it  accomplishes 
a  m  hole  facial  without  accessory  creams 
or  lotions.  So  expertly  is  this  all-pur- 


pose cream  compounded  that  it  softens 
the  skin  immediately  on  application, 
sinks  deep  into  the  pores,  relieves  the 
skin  of  make-up,  impurities,  excess  oil. 

You  don't  need  an  elaborate  shelf  ol 
cosmetics  when  you  have  Dagg<  ' 
Ramsdell's  Perfect  Cold  Cream  in  j 
boudoir.  You  don't  require  a  skin-food, 
for  this  balanced  cream  nourishes.  It 
smooths  away  wrinkles,  refines  I 
pores,  saves  all  the  fuss  and  bother 
of  lengthy  beauty  devotionals.   A    i 
achieves  the  same  miraculous  results! 
The  Enest  and  best  ingredients  to  be 

bad   make  up  the  formula  ol    Da 

\  Ramsdell's  Perfect  Cold  Cream.  It  is 
scientifically  blended  t'l  agree  with  the 
greatest  Dumber  of  -kin-.  You  cannot 
buy  a  better  product  at  any  prii 
coupon  below  for  a  genero  tube. 

/       /       1 
These  windy  March  days  you'll  find 
your  make-up  adheres  better  if  put  on 
over  a  light  powder  base  of  Daggett  & 
Ramsdell's  Perfect  Vanishing  Cream. 


regular  10  cent  size  tube  free 

DAGGETT  &  RAMSDELL,  2   PARK  AYEME.  NBW  YORK  CITY 

Please  send  me  FREE  one  of  your  regular  size  tubes  cf  Daggett  &  Ramsdell's  Perfect  Cold  Cream. 

Name p-3 


Street . 
City... 


>tat< 


Erery  idTcrtlMment  in  rilOTOFLAY  MAGAZINE  1=  fTiarmte«i. 


1  26 


% 


Goodbye  Dandruff! 

There's  nothing  mysterious  about  dandruff.  It's 
an  actual  substance,  just  as  natural  as  perspiration. 
If  you  don't  believe  you  have  it,  try  the  finger-tip 
test:  gently  scratch  your  scalp  and  look  at  your 
finger-nails. 

You  must  wash  your  hair  regularly  anyway — 
why  not  use  a  shampoo  that  removes  dandruff  at 
the  same  time?  Fitch's  Dandruff  Remover  Sham- 
poo dissolves  and  removes  every  speck  of  dandruff 
instantly  under  a  money-back  guarantee.  It 
lathers  freely  and  rinses  easily,  no  acid  rinse  needed. 
And  it's  just  as  good  for  blondes  as  it  is  for  brunettes. 

Fitch's  has  never  failed  in  37  years  of  increasing 
salts.  Try  it  today.  Applications  at  barber  shops 
and  beauty  parlors.  Retail  sizes  at  drug  and  de- 
partment stores. 

Send  10c  for  trial  size  and  booklet. 

F.  W.  FITCH  CO.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa.  PH3 

For  10c  enclosed  send  generous  trial  package  and 

32  page  educational  booklet  "Your  Hair  and  Scalp." 


Name. 


Men 

dislike  Women 

is 

Michael  Arlen's 

theme  in  his  new  COSMOPOLITAN 
serial  of  a  modern  girl  who  loses  her 
heart  but  keeps  her  head  in  America's 
dizziest,  maddest  social  set.  What 
Arlen  did  in  depicting  London's 
May  fair  in"TheGreenHat"he  does 
now  for  our  Park  Avenue  Mayfair 
in  "Men  Dislike  Women."  Begin 
this  sparkling  new  serial  in  March 

Hemts  International 

^^^^        ^^^  combined  -with  W   #    « 

fosmopolit 


Now  on  Sale 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 

She  had  an  interview  with  George  Loane 
Tucker.  She  had  worked  hard,  and  was  dead 
tired.  Nine  persons  out  of  ten  would  have 
broken  the  date.  Betty  kept  it.  It  resulted  in 
her  being  cast  in  "The  .Miracle  Man'' — and 
that  was  the  picture  that  really  "made''  her. 

And,  rich  or  not,  she's  still  a  shrewd  bar- 
gainer. She's  never  forgotten  what  she  learned 
in  days  of  privation,  and  if  you  don't  believe 
it,  just  try  to  put  something  over  on  her. 

She  just  loves  children — she's  happy  when 
she's  with  them.  Hut  other  people's — she 
never  wants  any  of  her  own,  she  says.  What 
she  wants  to  do  when  she  retires — and  IF  she 
retires — is  to  go  to  England  and  make  her 
home  there  in  a  cottage.  She  worked  in  pic- 
tures in  England,  and  loves  the  country. 

SHE'S  so  jealous  of  her  plans  that  some  time 
ago,  rather  then  forfeit  the  privilege  of  going 
back  to  England  some  day,  she  paid  a  S15,000 
tax  on  her  earnings  in  England,  when  she  might 
have  gotten  out  of  it  by  fighting  it  and  staying 
here.  Her  own  ancestry,  by  the  way,  is  Nor- 
wegian— that's  where  she  inherited  that  bril- 
liant hair  and  those  blue  eyes. 

She  likes  period  furniture,  and  believes  in 
changing  her  houseful  of  it  every  six  or  seven 
years.  Sends  out  all  the  old  stuff  to  the  auc- 
tion room,  and  refurnishes  completely.  Says 
it's  as  necessary  for  the  house  as  airing  out  the 
bedding!  She  collects  antiques — has  Queen 
Victoria's  egg  cup  and  a  pair  of  Dresden  China 
candlesticks  that  the  King  of  Serbia  once 
owned.  She  has  more  than  a  thousand  ele- 
phants of  all  kinds,  sizes  and  materials. 

She  never  keeps  letters,  but  saves  contracts. 
She  thinks  she'd  like  to  direct  pictures,  and 
would  also  like  to  design  advertising  layouts. 
She  plans  to  build  a  S5,000,000  hotel  in  Holly- 
wood. In  fact,  she  thinks  she  can  do  any  num- 
ber of  things  as  well  as  make  pictures. 

And  if  anybody  makes  the  obvious  wisecrack, 
the  answer  is  that  to  date,  she  has  made  nearly 
300  moving  pictures,  and  is  still  making  'em. 

And  that's  some  kind  of  a  record ' 


Charlotte,  N.  C. 

I  never  had  any  childhood;  I  was  a 
woman  at  twelve,  with  tragedy  for  a 
playmate.  Youth  is  not  even  a  pleas- 
ant memory;  merely  the  grinding  of 
wheels  in  a  dingy,  dusty  mill  and 
dragging  an  aching  body  home  to 
rest.  Now  with  life's  doors  of  happi- 
ness locked  and  barred,  I  find  myself 
shivering  and  alone,  forced  to  warm 
my  numbed  fingers  at  the  phantom 
firesides  of  make-believe  —  the 
movies,  the  one  bright  spot  in  my 
bleak  life,  the  one  place  where  I  may 
dream,  and  forget,  and  play. 

The  charming  love  stories  bring 
me  the  fragrance  of  many  forgotten 
springtimes  and  the  fullness  of  pas- 
sion that  was  never  mine.  The  varied 
locations  of  the  pictures  carry  me 
into  far  places,  giving  me  an  idea  of 
the  great  world  in  which  we  live, 
which  I  could  never  see  but  for  the 
movies.  My  blood  tingles  with  ex- 
citement when  I  tread  dangerous 
paths  in  underworld  pictures,  so  in 
contrast  to  the  safe  monotony  of  my 
present  existence. 

The  movies  have  stretched  out  a 
hand  to  me  in  the  dark.  I  have  taken 
it  and  found  its  firm  clasp  warm  and 
sincere;  a  friendly  substitution  for 
what  I  may  never  hope  to  attain. 
Mrs.  J.  M. 

Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  la  guaranteed. 


MY  DEAR,  can 
those  be  freckles 


we  seel 


THIS  will  never  do.  Lovely  ladies  mustn't 
look  like  young  imps  these  days.  Rush 
out  and  get  a  jar  of  the  new  Golden  Peacock 
Bleach  Creme  this  minute! 

You'll  love  it.  So  safe — so  gentle — so  utterly 
ruthless  in  its  business-like  banishment  of 
freckles  and  blotches,  winter-weathering. 
You'll  find  your  skin  shades  and  shades 
lighter  in  just  a  few  days,  softer,  smoother — 
and  quite  blemish-free. 

Golden  Peacock  Bleach  Creme  is  soothing, 
healing  and  completely  harmless — its  base  a 
mild  baby-skin  cream.  You'll  find  it  at  all 
toiletry  counters — SI  the  jar. 

THE  NEW  ^-^ 

QokLen  (J jeacocR, 

V         BLEACH    CREME 


Hair 


OFF 


Face 
Lips 
Chin 

I  once  looked  like  this.     Ugly  hair 

on  face unloved  ...  discouraged. 

Tried  depilatories,  waxes,  pastes, 
;ven  a  razor.  Then  1  discovered 
simple,  painless,  inexpensive  method.  It  worked! 
Thousands  have  won  beauty  and  love  with  the  secret. 
My  Free  Book,  "Getting  Rid  of  All  Ugly,  Superfluous 
Hair,"  explains  the  method  and  proves  actual  success. 
Mailed  in  plainenvelope.  Also  trial  offer.  Noobligation. 
Money  back  if  not  satisfied.  Write  Mile.  Annette 
Lanzette,   109  W.  Austin  Ave.,  Dept.  659,  Chicago. 


Unloved 

liquids,  electricity- 


Complete  Your  Toilet 

with 

diticura  Talcum 

Fragrant  and  Refreshing 

Price  25c.    Sample  free. 
Address :  "Cutlcur*,"  Dtpt  4B,  MsJdrn.  M&si. 


"males 


tik. 

■B  ^W  W^     41  How  to  banish   them 

^^^^^P    |VwL,y         A   simple,    safe    home   treat- 

I         ^7^C~-^Vff  nient — 16  years' success  in  my 

/        f-J    i£~~    j  practice.      Moles    (also    Big 

Growths)   dry   up  and   drop 

off.    Write  for  free  Booklet. 

VVM.  DAVIS,  M.  D,  124-D  Grove  Ave,  Woodbridge,  N.  J. 


Will  pay 
SI 00.00  for 
1S94  Dime. 


Old  Money  Wanted 

B.  Mint..  $50.00  for  1913  Liberty  Head  Nickel  (Not  Buf- 
falo).   Hie  premiums  paid  for  all  rare  coins.    Send  4c  for 

in  Folder.    May  mean  much  profit  to  you. 
NUMISMATIC  CO.,  Dept.  75        Ft.  Worth,  Tex. 


Photoplay  Maoahni    roa  Maki  h,  l     l 


"Just  Let  Me  Work" 


.  iisu  i>  ntOM  PAOI 

Arbuckle  will  half  smile  and  Bay,  nsualh 
•  v i\ ,  nevei  mind  me;  I'm  doing  all  right.  Hut 
you  might  give  a  story  to  So  and  So"-  naming 
either  an  old  timer  who's   beading   tor  the 
rocks,  or  a  newcomer  who  needs  .1  boost. 

IK-  has  learned  that  his  field  h  motion 
pictures,  and  it  is  in  that  field  alone  that  he 
must  seek  whatever  the  future  holds  for  him. 
He  tried,  disastrously,  restauranting.  lli> 
friends  backed  him— -first  with  the  Plantation 
Club,  a  night  resort  near  Hollywood.  It  went 
well  enough,  in  a  way,  bul  "Fatty"  got  nothing 

out  of  it  to  speak  of.     Ili^  name  was  blazoned 

there  in  electric  lights,  and  it  was  called  "his" 
place. 

But  all  he  really  was  was  entertainer  there. 
Ami  it  didn't  last. 

THEN  some  friends  promoted  another  place 
for  him,  in  Hollywood       lint  it  was  off  the 

beaten  track. 

Friends  are  few — real  friends,  that  13,     Not 
many  people  came  to  Arbuckle's  cafe.     And 
Sopped,  too. 

"It's  pictures  for  me."  he  reali/.ed.  He  had 
been  brought  up  in  pictures,  and  pictures  was 
all  he  knew. 

He  hasn't  many  resources.  So  he  turned 
hack  to  pictures. 

Producers  were  afraid  of  his  name.  They 
knew  that  to  mark  their  product  with  the  name 
of  Arbuckle  was  to  invite  disaster. 

It    was    Mack    Sennett    who   took    the    first 

chance.    He  gave  Tatty"  a  job  directing  and 

ng.  But  even  Sennett  had  Arbuckle  use 
another  name.  Four  months,  "Fatty"  stayed 
there. 

Then  he  went  to  Radio  Pictures.  Radio 
kept  it  very,  very  dark.     If  "Tatty"  happened 

•  into  a  photograph  taken  on  the  set  he 
was  working  on,  while  acting  as  gag-man,  the 

negative  was  destroyed.  The  studio  adopted 
a  rigid  hush-hush  policy  on  Arlmckle's  presence 
while  he  worked  there  as  comedy  adviser  on 
two  pictur 

From  there,  "Fatty"  went  to  another  pro- 
ducing organization  that  specializes  in  two- 
reel  comedies. 

the  past  several  months,  he  has  been 
-sfully    directing    there    under    his    new 
name.     He  is  reasonably  happy 

When  we  say  that,  we  mean  that  'Tan 
resigned.     He  has  lost  his  fight;  he  has  lo>t 
his  illusions.     And  of  hope,  he  retains  only  a 
vestige. 

That  hope  is  the  one  thing  he  has  never 
given  up.  It  is  the  hope  that  some  day,  some- 
how, he  may  once  again  return  to  the  screen — 
M  the  screen!  And  it's  not  because  he  thinks 
he  can  make  more  money — because  he's  mak- 
ing a  good  living  now.  It's  because  lie  can 
never  forget  the  place  he  once  held  in  tin- 
hearts  anil  affections  of  movie-goers.  He 
wants  that  place  back. 

'•  A  I.I.  I  want  to  do  is  to  he  allowed  to  work  in 
**my  field,"  is  the  way  he  puts  it.  There's  no 
longer  any  enthusiasm  behind  his  saying  it, 
though. 

"It  isn't  for  money.  I'm  not  broke.  I 
never  have  been  broke.  I  don't  want  anybody 
sobbing  or  whining  over  me. 

"I've  no  resentment  against  anybody  for 
what  has  happened.  My  conscience  is  clear, 
my  heart  is  clean.  I  refuse  to  worry.  I  feel 
that  I  have  atoned  for  everything. 

"You  know,  people  can  be  wrong.  I  don't 
say  I'm  all  right.  I  don't  believe  the  other 
side  is  ,il!  right.  And  anyway,  so  much 
worse  has  happened  in  history  to  people  vastly 
more  important  that  I  am  that  my  little 
worries  don't  matter,  in  comparison.  So  why- 
should  I  kick5 

"People  have  the  right  to  their  opinions. 
The  people  who  oppose  me  have  the  right  to 


_ID^crX«_l}_Lc_      tJ>oG__ 


e_rv.i   cj-v 


l^l 


err    -t_K-e_    e_^/-e_rv_JL 


JVJtl 


±rni   llvi*   irv a,TAreJ_crvc* 


J /"you're  compelled  to  come  dAshing 
home  from  die  office  or  a  shopping 
tour,  And  the  event  of  the  evening  re- 
quires a  quick  tub'  —  swish  hjxlf  a 
package  or  more  of  Linit  in  your  bAth, 
DAtlic  as  usuaI,  using  your  fAVoritc 
soap,  And  yvhen  dry,  feel  the  exquisite 
smoothness  of  your  skin. 

One  outstanding  feature  of  the  Linit 
BcAuty  BaiIi  is  tliAt  the  results  Are  im- 
mediate—no  w  Airing. 

Nor  will  you  wAstc  precious  minutes 
dusting  with  powder,  becAiisc  After 
the  Linit  BcAuty  BAth  there  i<  a  tight/ 
exceedingly  fine  coAting'  of  Linit  left 
on  the  skin  which  chminAtes  shine 
from  Arms  And  neck  And  which  harm- 
lessly Absorbs  perspiration. 

Ture  starch  from  corn  is  the  bA-ie 
ingredient  of  Linit  And  being  a  vcsc  = 
tAbte  product,  it  contAins  no  mincrAl 
properties  to  irritAte  the  skin.  In  fact/ 
doctors  who  spcciAlirc  in  the  treatment 
ot  the  skin,  rcgArd  the  purity  of  starch 
from  corn  so  highly  tliAt  thcygener 
recommend  it  for  die  tender  skin  ci 
young  babies. 


yomr  Lftrocee 


iil/iii'ui/   tn  a 

•.nft  .     wtioot/t     »lcii 


Tvlirn  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  rTTOTOri.AY  MAGAZINE. 


128 


College  Inn  Tomato  Juice 
Cocktails  are  popular 
with  my  quests.  I  serve 
them  frequently.  " 

ONA   MUNSON 

FIRST  NATIONAL  PLAYER 

Hlllllilllllll.llll.ll.llllllllll 


The  renowned 
Brdcer  and 
Appetizer 


ON  SALE  AT 

DPUG     STORES 

FOUNTAIN    GRILLS 

AND  ALL 

FOOD    SHOPS 

COLLEGE  INN 
FOOD  PRODUCTS  Co. 

(Division  of 

Hotel  Sherman  Co.) 

CHICAGO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 

.  1 1 "  i  !| 

H  X 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Dept.  3-P,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  S2.50  [Canada  S3.00. 
Foreign  S3. 50]  lor  which  kindly  enter  my  sub- 
scription for  Photoplat  Magazine,  for  one  year, 
effective  with  next  Issue. 


Send  to 

Street  A ddreaa 

City State 


Subscribe  for 

PHOTOPLAY 


RATES 

Yearly  Subscription:  S2.50  in  the 
United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico 
and  Cuba;  S3.00  Canada;  S3. 50  to  for- 
eign countries.  Remittances  should  be 
made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express 
money  order. 

USE  THIS  COUPON 

CAUTION:    Do  not  subscribe  through 
persons  unknown  to  you. 


'ettu 

Powder   Puffs 

STERILIZED  for  a  HEALTHY  SKIN 

os   fine   a    puff  as   you   can   buy     T  f\ 

Sold  Exclusively  at 


F.W.  W00LW0RTH  CO  s-k*  stores 


theirs.  I  have  the  right  to  mine — which  is. 
that  I've  suffered  enough,  and  been  humiliated 
enough. 

"I  want  to  go  back  to  the  screen.  I  think 
I  can  entertain  and  gladden  the  people  that 
see  me.  All  I  want  is  that.  If  I  do  get  back, 
it  will  be  grand. 

"If  I  don't— well,  okay." 


Lew  Stares  at  Stars 


[  CONTI.WED  PROM  PAGE  66  ] 

orchestras,  that  he  even  had  a  little  reed 
organ  in  his  home.  But  I  never  dreamed  of 
hearing  the  beautiful  harmony,  the  difficult 
compositions,  the  unique  improvisations  which 
issued  from  that  organ  with  Lew  sitting,  en- 
grossed in  his  playing,  at  the  console. 

T_JOLLY\YOOD  has  a  way  of  winding  itself 
-1-  Aabout  people  so  that  they  all,  sooner  or 
later,  drop  their  individuality  and  assume  a 
common  mold.  Tricked  by  Hollywood  into 
adopting  a  stereotyped  pose  which  they  mis- 
take for  unique  and  individual  temperament. 
There  is  a  race  to  see  who  can  display  the  most 
motor  cars,  the  most  pretentious  homes,  who 
throws  the  biggest  parties,  who  can  give  Holly- 
wood the  biggest  thrill  of  the  moment. 

Few  stars  have  escaped  Hollywood's  treach- 
erous yoke.  Greta  Garbo  is  one.  Lew  Ayres 
is  another. 

As  Lew  sat  there  at  the  organ,  I  couldn't 
help  mentally  cataloging  him  as  a  sort  of 
male  Garbo. 

Indian  moccasins  on  his  feet,  tie  loosened, 
shirt  unbuttoned  at  the  throat,  trousers  out  of 
press,  really  sloppy  looking! 

I  asked  if  he  wore  the  moccasins  to  better 
manipulate  the  organ  pedals. 

"Hadn't  thought  of  that,"  he  answered, 
without  interrupting  the  improvisation  upon 
which  he  was  working.  "Guess  I  do  look  kind 
of  messy  for  one  of  these  movie  actors!  So 
people  are  always  telling  me,  anyway.  But 
I'd  rather  be  comfortable  than  eat! 

"I  had  to  spend  most  of  my  time  around 
cafes  and  ballrooms  for  three  years  before  I 
went  into  the  movies,  and  I  got  fed  up  on 
party  atmosphere,  dolled  up  from  morning 
till  night,  every  word  and  gesture  studied  for 
the  effect  it  would  have  on  the  observer. 

"At  last  I  can  live  as  I  want  to.  I  can  put 
on  comfortable  clothes,  and  rummage  around 
the  junk  shops  down  on  Main  Street,  attend 
auctions  (I  always  get  stung,  but  I  do  like 
auctions!),  examine  the  ten-cent  stores,  fool 
around  with  this  pipe  organ,  read  books, 
drive  down  to  Agua  Caliente  for  mucins 
cervezas  (several  beers,  that  means),  sit  in  my 
window  nights  and  stare  at  the  moon  and 
stars  through  my  telescope." 

PUBLICITY  regarding  Lew  Ayres  has  center- 
ed largely  about  two  explicit  characteristics 
— he  is  "baby-faced,"  and  he  is  silent.  Don't 
let  either  of  these  facts  fool  you  about  the  boy 
they  only  vaguely  describe.  Lew  has  a  sense 
of  values — a  philosophy  far  in  advance  of  his 
years.  Few  other  young  chaps  could  have 
been  showered  with  his  sudden  success,  and 
been  able  to  resist  the  temptations  Hollywood 
offers  youth. 

Lew  has  an  enviable  bank  account,  takes 
pleasure-filled  week-end  trips  to  all  of  Southern 
California's  points  of  interest,  reads  good 
books,  studies  astronomy  and  music  every 
spare  minute,  chooses  a  few  reliable  and  in- 
teresting friends  .  .  .  the  rest  can  go  to  the 
devil! 

Lew  knows  his  Hollywood,  and  has  beaten 
it  before  it  even  so  much  as  induced  him  to 
try  on  a  beret. 

Lew's  own  words  are:  "Life  is  a  lot  of  fun 
if  you  make  it  so!  I  figure  that  it  is  my  job 
to  do  my  best  at  the  studio;  then  I  can  go 
home  and  forget  work — make  the  spare  hours 


When  you  write  to  advertiser?;  please  mention  TIIOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE. 


, omit     I'. mi.  i  i lothea  in  en 

they're  .ill   right,   I   MppOW,  lull  nothing  upon 

which   ti>  build   memories  for   future 

N.Hi  may  think  me  OV«  CautlOQS,  but  it   isn't 

tint     tvi  ju -t  my  idea  th.it  ynu  i. m  In-  happy 

all  your  lid-,  if  you  pave  tin-  way  (or  it  from 

the  ^t.irt 
Maybe  tin-  younger  generation  isn't  headed 
Irectry  for  destruction— as  voices  from  the 
bench  and  pulpit  would  have  as  think,  when 
mgstei  can  salvage  from  tin-  soph. 

tion,  cynicism,   and   futility  of   life   in   Holly 

(  a  philosophy  like  that  of  Lew  Ayresl 


Photoplay  Maoaxini   ton  Makch,  r    1  120 

as  told  to  PRINCESS  PAT  by  1 0,000  Men 

■HbWbVHHbI 


Larry  the  Kid 


:\(  I  l>  FROM  PAG]     7  I 


lie 


in  a  lake,  that  he  can't  see  it  thai  ■■ 
thoroughly  resents  being  told  what  to  do. 
He  once  said:    "If  I  tried  to  live  the  waj 

people  say  I  should  live,  I'd  lie  dead!'' 
He  lives  for  the  sheer  joy  of  living. 

Temperament  is  just  a  foolish  word  in  his 

lexicon. 

GKW'D  vocalist  that  he  is,  Tibbett  can't 
play  a  single  musical  instrument'  He  can't 
even  play  the  piano  well  enough  to  accompany 
himself.  The  only  thing  he  can  play  is  a  phono- 
•  :.   and   he   has   a    wonderful   collection   of 
records    everything  from  Red-Seal  stuff  to  the 
-t  syncopation. 
He  loves  ja//.  and  loves  to  dance  to  it.  and 
thinks  that  most  people  who  go  for  only  "high 
musk  are  putting  it  on. 
Tor  his  own  delectation,  his  favorite  musical 
pieces  are  the   Evening  Star  aria  from  Tann- 
h.uiser.  and   "A    Kingdom  in  the  Sea."  a  miii; 
by  Edgar  Allan  Poe,  to  music  by  Arthur  Somer- 
vi'.le.    He  sings  these  two  for  himself .    He  also 

-  German  lieder  and  popular  ballads  and  is 
constantly  using  more  and  more  of  them  in 
his  recitals. 

"Some  day  when  I  get  nerve  enough,"  lie 
>  i\  s,  ■•  I'm  going  to  confine  all  my  concerts  to 
English  songs  and  ballads."  He  contends  that 
as  long  as  he's  singing  in  an  Knglish-speaking 
country,  why  not  sing  in  English?  He  has 
little  patience  with  ultra  highbrow  critics. 

Mrs.  Tibbett  has  to  keep  a  sharp  eye  cocked 
on  him.  He'd  buy  colored  shirts  if  she'd  let 
him  but  she  makes  him  buy  white  ones.  When 
he  does  buy  clothes,  he  buys  in  huge  quantities 
at  a  time — when  be  has  one  suit  made,  he 
orders  three  or  four  more  like  it.  Shirts,  pa- 
jamas by  the  dozens. 

He  hates  to  buy  hats  and  shoes,  and  would 
rather  wear   old  ones. 

He's  a  that  his  wife  can't 

part  him  from  unless  siie  burns  it.  and  he's  got 
a  pet  sweater  that's  the  same  way. 

He  lets  his  valet  choose  his  clothes  for  him 
when  he  dresses,  and  when  he  undresses,  it's 
liable  to  be  anywhere  around  the  house.  Mrs. 
Tibbett  never  knows  where  she  will  rind  his 
collar  and  tie  next. 

T_TK  doesn't  play  bridge  at  all    Xohody 
•*■  -^-because  he's  more  fun  at  a  gathering 
playing  bridge 

Sometimes  he  gets  up  when  some  music  is 
being  played  and  does  an  impromptu  "aesthet- 
ic'' or  "interpretive"  dance.  It's  as  good  as 
Chaplin. 

He  has  no  hobby,  unless  it's  collecting  suit- 
cases and  leather  goods.  It  is  all  one  can  do  to 
get  him  by  a  leather  goods  shop  without  his 
going  in  and  buying  things. 

He  has  more  suitcases  than  stuff  to  pack 
in  them. 

He  clings  to  an  old  razor  he's  owned  for  fif- 
teen years. 

His  secret  ambition  is  to  be  a  Shakespearean 
actor. 

And  that's  a  close-up  of  Larry  Tibbett,  who's 
never  grown  up!    Thank  God! 


/  / 


WOMEN 
USE  TOO  MUCH  ROUGE" 


THE  MEN,  |*>'>r  dean  are  not  quite  correct.  They 
judge  by  appearances  solely.  What  they  really  pro- 
i  he  "painted  look" — and  "too  much  rouge"  i-; 
not  really  a  question  of  quantity.  It  is  a  matter  of 
kind;  for  even  the  tiniest  bit  of  usual  rouge  docs 
look  unreal. 

Women  have  startling  proof  of  difference  in  rouges 
once  they  try  Princess  Pat.    Have  you  sometimes 
watched  fleecy  clouds  at  sunset  shade  from  di 
rose  to  faintest  pink,  every  tone  pure  and  luminous? 
So  it  is  with  Princess  Pit  rouge.    Every  tone  is  pure 
and  luminous,  seeming  to  lie  beneath  the  skin  and 
not  upon  it.    You  obtain  more,  or  less,  color  by 
using  freely  or  sparingly.    There  is  never  the  un- 
lovely "painted  look"  to  which  men  object. 
Purity,  delicacy,  the  most  costly  color  tints,  and  a 
secret  formula  combine  to  make  Princess  I'll  the 
most  natural  rouge  in  Pie  world.   Blonde  and  br 
use  any  and  all  of  the  seven  Princess  Pat  shades 
with  perfect  effect. 

Vtlvtt  Your  Skin  with  Princess  Pat  Almond  Base  Powder 

Velvet  is  just  the  word;  for  the  thing 

almond  base  imparts  to  Princess  Pit   an  entirely 

new  "feel,"  makes  its  application  a  veritable  caress. 

Most  powders  contain  starch  as 

a   base  —  hence   their   drying 

effect.    The  almond  in  Princess 

Pat   definitely   helps   the   skin, 

assists  it  to  remain  pliant  and 

fine  of  texture.    And  there  has 

never  been  a  powder  to  go  on 


Princess  Pat  Ice  Astringent 
is  the  one  vanishing  cream  that 
acts  like  ice  to  close  an  i  ■ 
the  pores.  Ideal  as  the  p 
base  —  effective  longer  —  coot, 
pleasant,  refreshing  as  ire.  Pre- 
vents and  corrects  coarse  pores. 
Always  use  be/ore  pcrjider. 


so  smoothly,  or  cling  so  Ions  —  nevi-r,  be*  iu^e  only 
in  Princess  Pat  do  yon  End  the  soft,  naturally  ad- 
herent almond  base  —  instead  of  starch. 

Princess  Pat  face  powder  now  comes  in  two  weight  -. 
Medium  weight  in  the  familiar  oblong  box  — lighter 
weight  in  the  new  round  box.   It  has  been  p. 
because  of  the  almond   base  to  make   the  light 
powder  just  as  clinging  as  the  medium. 

Wonderful  New  Color  for  Lips 

Just  what  you've  wanted  —  lip  rouge  that  colors 
the  visible  part  of  the  lips  and  that  also  adh' 
and  colors  the  inside,  moist  surface.   Thus,  parted 
lips  show  beautiful  color  all  the  way  back  —  no 
unlovely  "rim"  of  colors  as  with  usual  lipsticks. 

Try  the  Seven  Famous  Aids-to-Beauty 
in  Princess  Pat  Week-End  Set 

This  is  really  an  "acquaintance"  set — enough  of 
preparation  for  a   thorough  trial  —  enough 

for  two  weeks.   And  the  beauty  book  sent  wil 

contains  information  on  skin  care  of  real  value  — 
!   artful   secrets   of   make-up   w 

enhance  results  from  rouge,  powder  and  lip  rouge. 


get  this  Week  End 

Set-SPECIAL 


The  very  popular  Princess  Pat  Wrrk 
End  Set  for  this  COUPON  c- 

Easily  a  month's  supply  of 
almond  base  posrder  and  FIVE  other 
delithtful  Princess  Pat  preparations. 
Beautifully  decorated  boudoir  box. 


rmcess 


Pat 


CHICAGO,    U.S.A.    (IN  CANADA.  9.1  CIIVRCH    ST..    TOK 


PRINCESS  PAT.  Dept.  A-1S6J 
2709  S.  Wells  St..  Chicago 
Enclosed  find  25c  for  which  send  me  the 
Princess  Pat  Week-End  Set. 

Name  (print) 

Street 

City  and  State 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAY  IIAGASTNE. 


3° 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


DANCING /ADIES 
4-     0 


now 
may  have  cool 
alluring  complexions 
that  men  admire 

IT  is  now  amazingly  easy  to  transform  one's  complexion 
to  a  charming,  youthful  softness  .  .  .  simply  use 
Boyer's  Flowers  of  Beauty  Face  Powder. 
It  stays  on  surprisingly  long  and  stands  the  test  of  fox 
trot  time  or  out-of-door  sport9.  Unaffected 
by  bodyheat.it  forms  an  invisible  veil  which 
protects  your  skin  from  sun.  cold.  wind. 
Boyer's  Face  Powder  instantly  removes 
shine,  stays  on  longer,  and  imparts  a  youth- 
ful, satiny  texture  so  admired  and  envied. 
This  powder  does  not  cake  or  chalk.  It  is 
pure  and  cannot  harm  the  most  delicate 
complexion. 

Six  fascinating  shades  to  improve  any  com- 
plexion. .  .and  you  will  love 
the  odor.  The  handy  glass 
tube  for  your   purse 
is  only  25c    and 
the   large    box 
with    puff. 
$1.00.    If  your 
druggist  can- 
not supply  you. 
order  from  2700 
S.Wabash  Ave.. 
Chicago.  Guaran- 
teed to  please  you. 


OYEK 


Clean 
BREATH? 

Now  there  is  a  sure  way  to  have  it  instantly 

TVTAY-BREATII  is  an  effective  mouth  wash 
•LVJ-  in  tablet  form  .  . .  dainty  little  tablets  that 
you  carry  with  you  always. ' 

Not  a  candy  —  that  won't  do.  Not  merely  a 
perfume.  A  Single  tablet  checks  bad  breath  in- 
stantly, whether  from  mouth,  stomach,  food 
or  smoking.  Now  you  can  enjoy  peace  of  mind 
throughout  the  entire  evening. 

May-Breath 


Did  Brown  and 
Garbo  Fight? 

[  CONTINUED  FB011  PAGE  33  ] 


enough.  She  refused  to  say  many  of  the  lines 
and  instead  of  arguing  about  it  she'd  only 
sulk  and  murmur,  "When  does  the  next  boat 
leave  for  Sweden?"  a  variation  of  the  old 
"I  tank  I  go  home." 

When  asked  why  a  line  did  not  please  her 
she  would  only  say,  "Oh,  dot's  silly.  I  never 
heard  people  talk  like  dot."  "Inspiration,"  a 
sophisticated  story  has  smart,  Continental 
atmosphere. 

The  lines  are  those  that  might  be  used  by 
smart  people. 

GETTIXG  the  most  from  a  line  is  something 
that  Garbo  does  not  yet  know  how  to  do. 
She  has  mastered  every  trick  of  the  silent 
screen,  but  the  technique  of  the  theater,  which 
has  now  become  the  technique  of  the  screen, 
is  foreign  to  her. 

Once  she  said  to  a  member  of  the  cast, 
"I  should  like  to  go  on  the  stage." 

"But  what  would  you  do  about  rehearsals? 
You  don't  like  them." 

"I  wouldn't  do  them,"  she  said.  "You  see, 
I'd  have  the  whole  cast  rehearse  and  have 
another  woman  do  my  part.  Then,  when  it 
was  ready  I'd  come  in  and  play  the  role." 

And  that! — a  Scandinavian  snap  of  the 
finger — for  the  traditions  of  the  theater! 

You  see,  Garbo  believed  that  she  knew  more 
about  dialogue  and  the  reading  of  lines  than 
the  producers.  At  least,  her  actions  betrayed 
this  and  because  she  would  not  learn  at  home 
the  lines  she  did  not  like,  the  set  was  turned 
into  a  school  room.  While  the  other  members 
of  the  cast — pretty  good  actors,  too,  Marjorie 
Rambeau,  Lewis  Stone,  Beryl  Mercer,  Robert 
Montgomery — waited,  Garbo  was  taught  her 
speeches. 

It  is  reported  that  Clarence  Brown  used  to 
go  behind  a  flat  alone.  Perhaps  he  was 
counting  from  one  to  ten! 

The  strange  part  is  that  this  is  all  very 
different  from  the  way  things  were  six  years 
ago,  when  Garbo  first  came  over.  The  late 
Mauritz  Stiller  directed  the  first  part  of  her 
second  picture. 

Stiller  was  the  final  word,  Garbo  not  even 
the   introductory    sentence. 

She  moved  before  the  camera  at  his  com- 
mand. And  it  was  only  when  Stiller  left  the 
M-G-M  lot  that  Garbo  showed  her  first  signs  of 
temperament.  But  she  showed  her  stubborn- 
ness so  persistently  that  other  directors  wished 
Clarence  Brown  sardonic  congratulations  when 
he  was  assigned  to  guide  her  and  Jack  Gilbert 
through  the  amorous  paths  of  "Flesh  and  the 
Devil." 

That,  as  it  later  turned  out,  was  the  film 
that  made  of  her  the  first  siren  of  the  cinema. 
And  it  also  showed  that  something  in  Garbo's 
temperament  acted  as  a  complement  to  some- 
thing in  Brown's. 

You  realized  that  these  two  were  the  perfect 
star-director  team. 

Garbo  was  completely  happy  doing  that  part. 
Brown  made  her  work  as  she  had  never  done 
before. 

He  also  introduced  her  to  Jack  Gilbert  and 
never  before  was  there  such  an  idyllic  glow 
of  happiness  upon  any  set. 

Eis  true,  of  course,  that  Brown  directed 
..er  more  in  that  first  film  than  he  has  since. 
The  years,  of  course,  have  taught  her  much. 
Brown  knows  her  to  be  the  outstanding  woman 
personality  of  the  screen,  and  he  now  lets  her 
play  her  scenes  about  as  she  wants  to  do  them. 
She  has  confidence  in  Brown.  She  knows  his 
worth  as  a  director. 

Out  of  that  confidence,  and  their  long  associa- 
tion, Garbo  and  Brown  have  developed  friend- 
ship. 

Every  advertisement  in  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  Is  guaranteed. 


At  Last  /CO  LOR 

can  be  imparted  to- 


G^BIB 


GRAY  haired  people  need  no  longer 
worry  about  the  embarrassment  and 
handicaps  gray  hair  causes.  Now  a 
liquid  has  been  discovered — a  liquid  as  col- 
orless as  water  itself — that  actually  imparts 
color  to  Gray  Hair  whether  it  is  snow 
white  or  merely  streaked.  It  is  called 
Kolor-Bak  and  you  simply  comb  it  into  the 
hair  and  watch  the  gray  disappear,  never 
changing  the  beautiful  sheen.  Another  thing 
about  Kolor-Bak  that  is  almost  as  amazing 
as  its  wonderful  results,  is  the  peculiar  fact 
that  the  very  same  bottle  of  this  clean,  col- 
orless liquid  does  for  either  Blonde,  Black, 
Brown  or  Auburn.  It  must  be  unusual,  for 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  have  al- 
ready used  it.  Don't  let  Gray  Hair  handi- 
cap you  any  longer!  Get  a  bottle  from  any 
druggist  or  department  store  today — and  if 
Kolor-Bak  doesn't  make  you  look  10  years 
younger,  your  money  will  be  refunded  at 
any  time. 
KOLOR-BAK— Imparts  Color  to  Gray  Hair 


Any  PHOTO 

MARGED 

lehes 

98 


Sire  16x20  Inches 
Same  price  for  foil  , 
lenpthor  bast  form. 
gToups.   landscapes, 
pet  animals,  etc.. or 
enlargements  of  spy  \ 
part  of    gronp  pic- 
ture. Safe  return  of  your  own 
original    photo     guaranteed. 

SEND  NO   MONEY 

Justmail  pbotoorenappbotfany' 
eize  land  within  aweekyoawill 
teceiveyonr  beautiful  life-like 
cnlarfrementsizeir.x20in.RTjar- 
an  teed  fadeless.  Pay  postman 
j  98c  plus  postage  or  eend  f  1.00 
with  order  and  we  pay  postage* 

SpecialFreeOfferSS 

enlargement  we  will  send  Free 
a  hand-tinted  miniature  repro- 
ductionof  photo  cent.  Take  ad- 
vantage now  of  this  amaxinff 
Offcr--«cnd  your  photo   today. 

UNITED  PORTRAIT  COMPANY 

900  West  Lake  Street,  Dept.  C-131.  Chicago,  III. 


HOTEL 

LILIDT 

South  Carolina  Are. 

at  the  Boardwalk 
Atlantic  City,  N.  J. 


ATLANTIC  CITY'S  NEWEST 

Centrally  Located  Fireproof  Hotel 
Qtf")^A    European  American    §  ** 

^^  R.  B.LUDY,  M.D.  £> 


SEEiEEIgaL3ilIlEHI 

Particulars  of  Dr.  Esenwein's  famous  forty- 
lesson  course  in  writing  and  marketing  of  the 
Short-Story  and  sample  copy  of  The  Writer's 
Monthly  free.    Write  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL 
Dept    95.  Springfield,  Mass. 


Photoplav  Maoazini  P09B  March,  1931 


ii,!.'    i  BtU   yarn  r ii.it  will  Dlu  itratc  it 
During  t  ti <-  last  football  leaaan  Brown 
told,  on  a   inn-  Saturday  morning,   thai    he 
would  have  t"  work  with  Garbo  and  bi  ■ 
panj   .ill  day.    Greta  mw  thai  her  (Hi 

"What  is  the  matter,  Clarence?"  she  a 
i  want  ■  the  game,"  tin-  dii 

•aid 

"\  mi  have  de  ticket 

"\  es,"  answered  Brovi a. 

"OK.  S  on  i:o.  Now  Garbo  siik!  She 
cannot  work  any  more  todaj  " 

So  the  star  put  her  hand  to  her  head,  and 
staggered  aero  saying  "Garbo 

L '    No  more  work  I" 
And  Brown  saw  the  football  game. 

Brown  knows  ln-r  worth  as  an  actiesf  and 

he  has  made  part  of  his  success  with  her  by 
sitting  by,  calmly,  and  allowing  the  flame  of 
her  talent  to  burn  itself  before  tin-  camera. 
Whenever  any  difficulty  arises  Brown  says, 
"Well,  we'll  shoot  the  scene  two  ways,  your 

way    and    mine,    and    we'll    sec    which    is    the 
better  ?' 
It  is  the  way  to  handle  Garbo.    Arguments 

won't  do.  She  has  fared  opinions,  but  she 
does  not  hack  these  up  with  reasons.  Just 
as  in  the  old  days  she  sent  hairdressers  away 
talking  to  themselves  with  her  "Garbo  does 
not  like,"  so  now  she  watches  the  action  of  B 
bit  of  the  scene  and  says      in  effect  —  "Garbo 

does  not  like."    Therefore,  Garbo  must  have 

her  own  way.     She  may  be  persuaded  to  do 

it  another  way  as  well.  Hut  she'll  do  it  her 
way  at  least  once. 

So  much  for  the  trouble  on  "Inspiration 
So     much    for    the     rumors    of    star-director 
battles. 

There  were  none  of  the  latter — only  sulky 
moments  that  made  everybody  concerned  un- 
happy. 

Garbo  can  be  most  unpleasant. 

Hut  the  only  thing  of  Importance  to  you 

and  to  me  is  that  one  rumor  that  Brown 
will  not  direct  Garbo  again      That  would  be 

tragic. 

AND,  here  is  what  Hrown.  himself,  says 
about  that.  "1  would  not  direct  Miss  Garbo 
■gain  under  the  Same  conditions  that  pre- 
sided during  the  last  picture.  We  would 
begin  by  having  a  completed  script  before  we 
started.  Hut  tor  Miss  Garbo,  personally  and 
as  an  artist  1  have  the  greatest  respect  and 
admiration." 

And,  now,  for  you  Garbo  fans,  here's  the 
final  tag  to  the  story.  Garbo  did  not  like 
her  role  in  "Inspiration."  She  did  not  like 
her  lines. 

She  did  not  like  the  conception  of  the  woman 
she  played.  She  did  not  like  working  in  the 
picture. 

And.  yet,  as  the  modernized  "Sappho,"  she 
gives  one  of  the  most  beautiful  characteriza- 
tions of  her  exciting  career. 

And  if  you  can  beat  that  one  you'll  win  the 
diamond-studded  megaphone. 


Here  Are  the  Names  of  the 
"Best  Known  Unknowns' ' 

These  are  the  names  of  the  best-known 
Hollywood  unknowns  described  in  Mr.  Chris- 
man's  story  on  pages  72-7.v 

How  many  did  you  know? 

1.  Tom  Ricketts 

2.  Lon  Pofi 

3.  Daisy  Bel  more 

4.  Edgar  Norton 

5.  De\Yitt  Jennings 

6.  Maude  Turner  Gordon 

7.  Paul  McAllister 

8.  Maurice  Black 

9.  Dale  Fuller 
10.  Ed  Brady 


on  MUM 


SLIP    INTO   YOUR   DRESS 


AND 


GO  ! 


"WHY  MAKE  a  problem  of  perspiration  odor?"  ask 
a  million  Mum  users.  "Take  care  of  it  the  modern  way  .. 
not  a  minute  wasted,  not  a  bit  of  effort  .  .  yet  complete 
protection." 

Protection  is  so  easy  these  days — with  Mum!  Xo 
elaborate  directions  to  follow.   No  time  out,  waiting. 

Any  time,  during  the  day  or  evening,  a  fingertipful 
of  this  magic  snowy  cream  to  each  underarm — and 
you're  safe! 

Safe  from  that  odor  of  perspiration  which  brands  a 
woman — or  a  man,  for  all  that — as  quite  a  little  lacking 
in  the  niceties  of  life. 

In  these  modern  days  women  know  that  they  can- 
not rely  on  soap  and  water  and  a  dash  of  perfume  to 
keep  themselves  free  from  unpleasant  underarm  odor. 

A  quick  application  of  Mum  —  that's  the  modern 
way.  It  protects  you,  it  protects  your  clothing  from  that 
taint  which  fabrics  so  quickly  absorb.  And  without 
harming  the  fabric! 

There's  nothing  irritating  to  the  skin  in  Mum.  It  has 
such  a  cool,  soothing,  refreshing  feel.  In  fact,  you  can 
use  Mum  right  after  shaving! 

And  think  of  this — Mum  rubbed  on  the  hands  after 
you  have  had  to  prepare  onions  or  fish,  or  use  gasoline 
or  dry  cleaner,  will  absolutely  kill  every  lingering  odor! 
It  soothes  and  softens  the  hands,  too. 

Use  Mum  any  time  of  day — before  dressing  or  after! 
At  toilet  goods  counters  everywhere,  35c  and  60c.  Mum 
Mfg.  Co.,  Inc..  80  Varick  St.,  New  York,  N.  Y.  Cana- 
dian Address:  Windsor,  Ontario. 


ON  SANITARY  NAPKINS 
You  will  also  be  grateful 
to  know  that  Mum  on  san- 
itary napkins  is  complete 
assurance    of     safetv! 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE. 


I32 


C 


MARVELOUS 


NEW 


HAIRBRUSH 


GIVESGLOWINGii  a  in 

e  a  l  t  h  yrl/MK 


H 


only  $2.00 


Think  of  it — the  luxurious,  soft,  lovely, 
natural  hair — glowing  with  health — 
for  which  society  women  and  movie 
stars  pay  dearly  is  now  available  to 
you  simply  and  reasonably. 
The  secret — an  unique  hair  brush  that 
massages  while  it  brushes — keeps  hair 
soft  and  fluffy— cleanses  the  scalp — 
prevents  da.nJru'F — stimulates  circula- 
tion. Graduated  bristles  make  brush 
actually  fit  your  head — more  surface 
of  hair  and  scalp  reached  with  each 
brush  stroke. 

Send  us  your  dealer's  name.  Specify 
color — genuine  Pyroloid — nile  green — 
beige — coral. 


THE 


WILCOX 

HAIR  BRUSH 


CROSS  SECTION 
EW  SHOWS  HOW 
CONCAVED  BRISTLES 
FIT  THE  HEAD 


ATHOL, 
MASS. 


J 


m 


NEW  KIND   OF 
SOFT  BEAUTY 

Scientists  say  that  the  skin  contains  about  28 
miles  of  pores  and  ducts.  That  explains  how 
Dr.  Charles  Flesh  Food  is  bringing  a  new 
kind  of  soft-skin  beauty  to  so  many  women. 
Almost  as  soon  as  applied,  this  remarkable 
cream  is  absorbed  by  the  pores;  thus  it  gets  at 
the  entire  skin— the  lower  tissues  as  well  as 
the  upper— lubricating  them  and  giving  them 
a  pliant  softness  which  is  different  from  any- 
thing else.  As  a  night  cream  it  imparts  a 
translucent  beauty  and  tones  down  wrinkles. 
On  chapped  hands  or  other  rough  surfaces 
it  works  seeming  miracles.  Every  woman 
6hould  take  advantage  of  it.  50c  and  $1  the  jar. 


Dr  Charles 
flesh  roop 

Li1  LJ  L1  Li1  For  free  sample  jar  send  this  coupon  to 

E  JAIZj-LJ  Dr.  Charles  Flesl  Food  Co.,  Dept  P.C. 
220-S6th Street,   Brooklyn,  N.   V. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 

Ina  Claire  Laughs 
Last — and  Loudest! 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  43  ] 


that  was  Ina  Claire's  artistic  kingdom? 
Alas,  and  I  may  say,  alack,  no.  It  popped 
faintly,  for  its  first  showing,  at  an  out  of  the 
way  neighborhood  theater — for  three  days! 
This,  for  the  first  talking  picture  of  a  potent 
star! 

And  then  it  dropped  from  sight  entirely. 

To  this  day  there  is  some  doubt,  probably. 
in  the  minds  of  thousands,  as  to  whether  there 
really  WAS  such  a  picture  as  "The  Awful 
Truth."  And  as  one  of  the  few  who  saw  it, 
I  may  say  it  was  a  pretty  good  picture,  too! 

but  that  didn't  help  Ina,  her  pride,  or  Pathe 
very  much. 

AND  so  Queen  Ina  Claire  entered  upon  her 
Black  Days.  As  far  as  Hollywood  was  con- 
cerned, she  was  already  in  the  scullery,  polish- 
ing pans  from  which  her  betters  might  feed. 

But  Hollywood  didn't  know  the  Claire  girl. 
When  Pathe  bought  off  the  rest  of  her  con- 
tract for  S75,000 — when  she  squabbled  with 
Gilbert  and  moved  out  of  the  hilltop  castle 
into  a  house  in  the  lowlands,  still  Hollywood 
didn't  know  her. 

The  picture  public  never  had — save  as  "that 
blonde  dame,  you  know,  the  one  who  married 
Jack  Gilbert." 

So  here  was  Ina,  palpably  a  slightly  spotted 
deuce  at  the  bottom  of  the  deck.  A  lesser 
woman  might  have  taken  her  licking  and  re- 
tired to  a  cave  to  moan  and  blubber.  But 
not  Ina.  That  wasn't  the  way  she  got  to  be  a 
queen.  Just  when  her  bruises  were  biggest 
and  sorest,  she  really  began  to  fight. 

And  for  magnificent  ironic  comedy — with  a 
dash  of  white-hot  drama — I  offer  you  Ina 
Claire's  irresistible,  indomitable  comeback! 

Suddenly  Hollywood,  dreaming  in  its  card- 
board castles,  learned  that  Miss  Ina  Claire 
was  to  star  on  the  Los  Angeles  stage  in  "Re- 
bound," a  play  by  Mr.  Donald  Ogden  Stewart. 
It  lifted  one  eyebrow,  and  went  back  to  its 
movie  mumbling.  Oh  yes,  that  stage  actress 
who  married  Gilbert.  And  what  a  first-rate 
flopperino  SHE  was! 

But  they  still  didn't  know  Ina  Claire.  She 
and  Gilbert  called  out  the  troops.  Jack  com- 
mandeered a  flock  of  seats  and  marched  in 
the  movie  monarchs,  all  ermine  and  diamonds 
— all  from  Missouri,  waiting  sniffily  to  be 
shown. 

Ina  Claire,  indeed!  It  was,  by  all  accounts, 
the  most  brilliant  opening  in  the  history  of  the 
Los  Angeles  stage. 


AND  they  were  shown !  In  the  leading  role 
of  "Rebound"  one  Ina  Claire  gave  a  per- 
formance that  left  the  mummers  gasping  like 
so  many  moribund  tadpoles.  She  let  them 
have  both  barrels  of  her  colossal  glamour — she 
teased  them,  cajoled  them,  smote  them,  in- 
flamed them,  stirred  them  and  left  them 
goggling  in  their  seats!  Producers  rushed  into 
the  lobby,  talking  to  themselves  and  adding 
sums  on  their  fingers. 

Well,  it  was  really  too  funny.  Ina's  triumph 
was  complete.  If  there  was  any  enemy  yet 
alive,  it  was  flying  over  the  High  Sierras,  its 
coat  tails  lying  flat  on  the  breeze. 

Before  you  could  mutter  "Gustav  Von 
Seyffertitz,"  Ina  Claire  had  been  signed  on 
the  dotted  line  by  Paramount,  and  Pathe  had 
snapped  up  "Rebound"  for  Ann  Harding. 
From  that  droll  result,  you  can  see  that  it  was 
a  scramble,  and  too  bad  for  the  hindmost! 

Ina  Claire?  Oh,  she  just  smiled  a  slow,  cool 
smile  and  went  into  strict  training.  Ina,  you 
see,  was  a  queen  again. 

Gilbert  had  married  a  blonde  actress,  and 
caught  a  monarch! 

Every  advertisement   In  rriOTOrLAY  MAGA'/.INK  Is  guaranteed. 


"Bring  back  my 

BLONDE  HAIR 

. ...  to  me!" 

DRY  your  eyes,  little  used-to-be  blonde.  You'll 
be  singing  another  song — when  you've  had  a 
Blondex  shampoo!  For  Blondex  will  gently  coax 
back  all  your  natural  golden  beauty — give  your 
hair  new  sparkle,  new  bewitching  lights.  Pre- 
vents darkening,  too.  Contains  no  harsh  dyes- 
no  harmful  chemicals.  Stimulates  scalp.  It's  safe. 
At  all  reliable  drug  and  department  stores. 


FORM  |  65c  | 
DEVELOPED 

T?LAT  chested'*  Fashion  demands  the 
*  full,  rounded  shapeliness  of  the  wom- 
anly form.  The  stars  of  Hollywood  are 
developing  their  feminine  charm.  You, 
too.  can  quickly  add  extra  fullness  where 
needed.      Mv   new  method   plumps  out 

the  hollows  and  builds  Bra.  vouthful  tissue.  Just 
TRY  my  wonderful  NANCY  LEE  MIRACLE 
CRE AM'and  special  developing  instructions! 

GIVEN  Write  Today 

Send  nnlv  6Se  fop  larce  jar 
of  NANCY  LEE  MIRACLE  CREAM  (in  plain 
,n|i|>:  :,nd  I  will  include  mv  ..pedal  Ficure- 
Moulding  Coursa  ;.nd  complete  taVtoc  Take. 
■dnoteaa  of  this  bii  offer— write  AT  ONCE! 

NANCY  LEE  Dept.  X-3 

816  Broadway,         New  York,  N.  Y. 


Accept 
Liberal 
Offer 


BUNIONS 

Now  Dissolved 

P:iin  stops  almost  Instantly!  Then  lasting 

'    relief.   Falryfoot  gradually  dissolves  pain- 

'    fill,  ugly  bunions.  Enables  you  to  wear 

\  smaller  shoes.   Xo  cumbersome  appli- 

A  anops.  Nomessv  salves.  1'sed  snecess- 

OC*  fullv  on   500.(1(10   feet.    Write  for 

1  treatment  absolutely  FREE! 

yfoot  Products  Co..  Chicago,  I II. 

1223  S.  Wabash  Ave..  Dept.  21 


-*<V l  fully 

&V  Fairy 


Photoplay  m.m.a/im.  roa  March,  i     I 


in. i  CUlrc  toned  of!  a  few  pounds,  hen 
and  there. 

sin-  no  bnga  had  bu<  k  fevei  when  ■  mk  ro 
phone  mapped  .it  her.  She  looked  more  raviab- 

inn  than  the  had  in  j 

Like  the  great  troupa   I  irent  int>> 

the  tren<  hei  al  Paramount'  i  I  '*  ft  rn  studio — 

and  t;  flew. 

She  in. is  be  imperious,  sin-  may  !>«•  ■  little 
hard  t>>  handle,  l>nt  Claire  is  one  oi  the  I 
troupers  in  Imerii  a. 

The  tri<  ks  ol  In.  r  trade  that  *ln-  doesn't  know 
have  nol  yet  been  >l< 

And    she    turni'd    them    all    loOSt    <>n 

Royal  I  .mills   ol   Broadwaj 
Paramount  did  its  part.    It  told  ofi  Fp 

March    and     Henrietta    tro-man    and     Mary 

Brian  for  the  company. 

It  allowed  George  Cukor  and  Cyril  Gardner 
to  try  their  directorial  metal  on  the  excellent 

-1  I  ipt. 

AND  ssh.it  a  picture  they  made    with  Claire 
and  March  glittering  in  the  vanl 

It  had  a  Mlk  hat  Opening  at  the  proud 

Rivali  Theater,  right  where  Broadway's  heart 

,  loudest. 

The  critics  danced  in  the  aisles  when  the 

premiere  was  oser.  I 'or  days  on  end  the 
public  jammed,  packed  and  i  rammed  the  play- 
house- to-eessii.it  is  certainly  one  of  the  best 
talking  pictures  yet  manufactured  by  the  arts 
and  sciences  iii  crafty  hands. 

And  there  sou  have  it — and  there  you  have 
lna  Claire,  a  queenlier  queen  than  ever,  and 
rightly  so,  by  talent,  training  and  beauty.  I 
sometimes  ssonder  what  Hollywood  makes  of 
it,  when  it  contemplates  "that  SDOOty  blonde 
Stage  actress  svho  came  out  here  and  married 
Jack  Gilbert  and  then  flopped  oser  at    I'athe." 

Can  you  beat  it  for  Horatio  Alger  drama — 
and  for  sardonic  comedy? 

Have  your  laugh,  lna — and  make  it  loud, 
long  and  as  triumphant  as  you  please. 

And  wait — as  one  svho  has  adored  you 
(from  theater  balconies i  for  years,  let  me  join 
in! 

liar!  Har!  Harl  and  a  Tiger! 


A  Real  Sheik 
Sees  Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  59  ] 


and  all  the  other  make-up  of  the  so-called 
"sheik." 

"There's  one  of  our  sheiks,"  said  the  studio 
man. 

"That?"  screamed  Ab'sl'm.  Then  be  spat 
violently  and  in  five  languages,  called  upon 
Allah  to  witness  that  he  had  been  grossly  in- 
sulted. 

It  was  many  minutes  before  the  studio  man 
could  explain  that  the  term  sheik  originated 
here  with  the  Valentino  rage. 

"Hah!''  lamented  Ab'sl'm  at  length.  Then: 
"  Now  you  know  Meester  Wolheim?  Well,  he 
would  be  a  sheik  in  my  countree," 


that    they 
Ab'sl'm  finally  shut 


IT    was    about    his    five    wives 
kidded  Ab'sl'm  most, 
them  up. 

"Wat  ees  de  deePrence?"  he  asked.  "Een 
my  countree,  I  haf  five  wives.  Eel  seems  from 
sv'at  I  see  and  hear  dat  een  Holleewood  eet  ees 
not  onusual  for  one  beeutiful  woman  to  haf 
five  'osbands — som'time  not  all  at  once, 
maybe." 

And  American  men — oh,  they're  all  right  as 
friends,  but  as  lovemakers  .  .  .   ! 

"I  theenk."  said  Ab'sl'm  to  a  close  friend  on 
the  day  he  left  Hollywood,  "dat  sometime  soon 
1  shall  come  back. 

"1  shall  estableesh  a  school  for  love-making. 
Eet  ees  badly  needed  here." 

But  then,  this  is  a  family  magazine,  after  all. 


he  worst  day 
'n  the  month 


WORK    PILED     UK. II.    BIT     SHE     MIST     GO     IIOME. 
A  MONTHLY  OCCURRENCE!    HER  EMPLOYER  SAYS 


\<>  I  lll\«.   and  yvt 


v-APABLE — she  understands  her 
work  and  does  it  well.  Efficient — to 
the  very  tips  of  her  speeding  fingers. 
Fully  dependable — until  a  certain 
period  every  month. 

Then — good  only  to  make  excuses! 
But  the  best  excuses  do  not  halt 
the  pains.  Midol  does. 

Women  Mill  submitting  meekly 
to  dreaded  monthly  martyrdom 
should  investigate  the  merciful 
merits  of  these  tiny  tablets  at  once. 

They  are  as  harmless  as  they  look. 
Take  them  when  the  time  comes — 
and  you  don't  suffer.  Or  if  pains 
have  started,  they  will  subside  in 
from  five  to  seven  minutes.  No 
matter  how  much  pain  you  have 
endured  even.'  month.  Whether  you 
are  fourteen  or  forty.  Midol  never 
fails  to  bring  the  relief. 

Specialists  produced  these  tablets 
to  perform  one  specific  service — 
to  end  periodic  suffering  without 
harm.     They  bring  prompt  relief. 


without  penalties  of  any  kind. 
Midol  isn't  a  narcotic;  you  may 
take  it  as  often  as  there  is  need. 
Modern  women  —  more  than  a 
million  —  depend  on  this  comfort 
to  spare  them  even  a  single  moment 
of  unnecessary'  pain. 

Wherever  you  go,  take  with  you  the 
confidence  that  Midol  affords.  For 
the  tiny  trim  case,  in  which  these 
assuring  little  tablets  come,  will 
tuck  away  in  any  purse  or  pocket. 
Just  say  "Midol"  to  your  druggisl ; 
we  guarantee  your  satisfaction.  Or 
try  it  free,  see  offer  below — our 
proof  that  Midol  will  help  you: 


PERSONAL    ' 

The  makers  of  Midol  <  ■■  :i  care  (in  a  plain 

wrapper)  to  prove  that  all  such  pain  is   needless. 

this  coupon  to  MIDOL.  170Varick  St.N.V. 


St. 


P.O. 


When  jrou  write  to  a!  ;«e  mention  rHOTOrLAT  MAGAZINE. 


»34 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


Surely 


your  clothes  are 
worth  more  than 
a  dime  .  .  . 

Their  daintiness  deserves  to  be  pro- 
tected from  perspiration.  DEW,  which 
will  keep  them  free  from  moisture  and 
stains,  may  be  used 
at  any  time  —  even 
while  dressing. 
Will  not  irritate 
skin  or  injure 
dress  fabrics 
when  simple  di' 
rections  are  fol- 
lowed. It  will 
cost  you  only  a 
dime  to  try  it. 


DEW 

CRYSTAL- PI' RE     DEODORANT 
INSTANT      NON-PERSPIRANT 


Lambert-Fesler,  Inc. 

Dcpt.Jl7.Del  Monte  Way,  St.  Louis 

Enclosed  is  ioc.   Please  send  DEW  simple  to: 

-\am« 


Address. 
City 


-State. 


The  Alluring,  Irresistible 
Charm  of 
Woman 


A  SATINY,  clear,  beautiful  skin  depends 
largely  upon  the  blood  and  the  circulation 
as  do  pink  cheeks  and  bright  eyes  ....  En- 
rich the  blood  and  the  skin  will  take  care  of 
itself.  Rich,  red,  healthy  blood  nourishes  the 
body  and  aidsin  protecting  it  against  pimples 
and  blemishes.  Dr.  Pierce's  Golden  Medical 
Discovery  will  help  nature.  Internal  health- 
fulness  will  then  reflect  in  your  skin  a  natural 
loveliness.  Send  10c  to  Dr.  Pierce's  Clinic, 
Buffalo,  N.  Y.,  for  an  acquaintance  package; 
or  ask  your  druggist  for 

Dr.  Pierce's 
Golden  Medical  Discovery 


Ar.  Vow  Always  Eacitod  ?  F*t>Ku«d  ?  Worrl«d  ? 
ny?  P*»»lml»tlcT  Constipation,  indication.  roM 
ID  ipella  And  bul.fulnrM  arc  eauird  L>v  NERVE 
EXHAUSTION.  />-wi.  (*-»»<■•  and  mrrfirtnr*  connof  k*tp  ir*ak.  nek 
rurt**.'     Learo     how     to     ffOln     Vicor.     Calmnra*    and     bdf     Confidence. 

S«od    25c   tor  this    iniimi   book. 
RICHARD    BLACKSTONE,  N  223   Flatlroi*  Bide.  NEW   YORK 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


ALMOST  A  HONEYMOON"—  British  Inter- 
na i  ional. — From  the  play  by  Walter  Ellis.  Adapted 
ntv  Banks  and  waller  Mvcroft.  Directed  by 
Monty  Banks.  The  cast:  Basil  Dibley,  Clifford 
Mollison;  The  Butler.  Donald  Calthrop;  Rosalie 
Outlier,  Dorothy  (Dodo)  Walts;  Culhberl  de  Grey. 
Lamon.  Dickson;  Sir  James  Jephson,  C.  M.  Hallard. 

"ALOl.  \"     —     RoGELL-TlFFANY     PRODUCTION. — 

From  the  Btsry  by  Thomas  II.  Ince  and  J.  G.  Hawks. 
Adapted  by  Adele  Buffington.  Directed  by  Albert 
RogelL  The  cast:  Jimmy  Bradford.  Ben  Lyon; 
Ilanu,  Raquel  Torres;  James  Bradford,  Sr.,  Robert 
in;  Stevens,  Alan  Hale;  Winifred  Marvin.  Thelma 
Todd;  Elaine  Marvin,  Marion  Douglas;  Old  Ben, 
Otis  Harlan;  Johnny  Marvin,  T.'Roy  Barm-;  F.urry 
Leavitl,  Robert  Ellis;  Kahea,  Donald  Reed;  A  Sailor, 
Al  St.  John;  Junior  Bradford,  Dickie  Moore;  Govern- 
.  .  Mania  Harris;  Rosalie,  Addie  McPhail;  Dixie, 
Phyllis  Crane;  Native  Girl,  Rita  Rey. 

"CAUGHT  CHEATING"  —  Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Krom  the  story  by  W.  Scott  Darling. 
Directed  by  Frank  Straycr.  The  cast:  T.  McGill- 
icuddy  JIungerford,  Charlie  Murray;  .Sam  Harris, 
George  Sidney;  Madelynne  Cabrone.  Nita  Martan; 
Joe  Cabrone.  Robert  Ellis;  Tessie,  Dorothy  Christy; 
Lena  Harris,  Bertha  Mann;  Tobey  Moran,  Fred 
Malatesta;  Guise ppe,  George  Regas. 

"CITY  LIGHTS"— Chaplin-United  Artists. 
From  the  story  by  Charles  Chaplin.  Directed  by 
Charles  Chaplin.  The  cast:  A  Blind  Girl.  Virginia 
Cherrill;  Her  Grandmother,  Florence  Lee;  An  Eccen- 
tric Millionaire,  Harry  Myers;  His  Butler,  Allan 
Garcia;  A  Prizefighter,  Hank  Mann;  A  Tramp, 
Charles  Chaplin. 

"DAMAGED  LOVE"— Sono  Art-World  Wide. 
—From  the  play  by  Thomas  W .  Broad  hurst.  Adapted 
by  Frederic  and  Fanny  Hatton.  Directed  by  Irvin 
Willat.  The  cast:  Nita  Meredith.  June  Collycr; 
Jim  Powell.  Charles  Starrett;  Rose  Powell,  Eloise 
Taylor;  Madge  Sloan,  Betty  Garde;  Ned  Endicott, 
Charles  Trowbridge. 

"DANCE  FOOLS.  DANCE"— M-G-M.— From 
the  story  by  Aurania  Rouverol.  Continuity  by 
Richard  Schayer.  Directed  by  Harry  Beaumont. 
The  cast:  Bonnie,  Joan  Crawford;  Bob.  Lester  Vail; 
Bert  Scranton,  Cliff  Edwards;  Rodney,  William  Bake- 
well;  Stanley  Jordan,  William  Holden;  Jake  Luva, 
Clark  Gable;  Wally,  Earle  Foxe;  Parker.  Purnell  B. 
Pratt;  Selby,  Hale  Hamilton;  Delia.  Natalie  Moor- 
head;  Sylvia,  Joan  Marsh;  Whitey,  Russell  Hopton. 

"DRACUUA" — Untversal. — From  the  novel  by 
Bram  Stoker  and  the  play  by  Hamilton  Deane  and 
John  Balderston.  Directed  by  Tod  Browning.  The 
cast:  Count  Dracula,  Bela  Lugosi;  Mina  Se-.i'ard, 
Helen  Chandler;  John  Harker,  David  Manners;  Dr. 
Seward.  Herbert  Bunston;  Dr.  \'an  Helsing,  Edward 
Van  Sloan,  Renfield,  Dwight  Frye;  Lucy,  Frances 
Dade;  Martin,  Charles  Gcrrard;  Maid,  Joan  Standing. 

"EASIEST  WAV.  THE"— M-G-M.— From  the 
play  by  Eugene  Walter.     Adapted  by  Edith  Ellis. 


Directed  by  Jack  Conway.  The  cast:  Laura  Mur- 
doch. Constance  Bennett;  H'illard  Brockton,  Adolphe 
i;  Jack  Madison.  Robert  Montgomery;  Peg, 
Anita  Page;  ijfie.  Marjorie  Rambeau;  Ben,  J.  Farrell 
>  maid;  Agnes,  Clara  Blandick;  Nick,  Clark 
Gable. 

"F IFTV  MILLION  FRENCHMEN"— Warners. 
— From  the  play  by  Herbert  Fields.  Adapted  by 
Joseph  Jackson,  Al  Boasberg  and  Eddie  Welch. 
Directed  by  Lloyd  Bacon.  The  cast:  Jack,  William 
Gaxton;  Simon  and  Peter,  Olsen  and  Johnson;  Violet, 
Helen  Broderick;  Baxter,  Lester  Crawford;  Michael, 
John  Halliday;  Pernasse.  Charles  Judels;  Looloo. 
Claudia  Dell;  Joyce,  Evalyn  Knapp;  Marcelle. 
Carmelita  Geraghty;  Mrs.  Carroll,  Daisy  Belmore; 
Mrs.  Rosen,  V<ra  Gordon;  Mr.  Rosen,  Nat  Carr; 
Fakir,  Bela  Lugosi. 

"FIGHTING  THRU"— Tiffany  Productions.— 
From  the  story  by  John  Francis  Natteford.  Dil 
by  William  Nigh.  The  cast:  Dan  Barton,  Ken 
Maynard;  Alice  Maiden.  Jeanette  Loff;  Tennessee 
Maiden,  Wallace  MacDonald;  Queenie,  Carmelita 
Geraghty;  Ace,  William  L.  Thorne;  Fox  Tyson, 
Charles  L.  King;  Sheriff,  Fred  Burns. 

"GANG  BCSTER.  THE"— Paramount.— From 
the  story  by  Percy  Heath.  Screen  play  by  Joseph 
L.  Mankiewicz.  Directed  by  Edward  Sutherland. 
The  cast:  Cyclone  Charlie  Case.  Jack  Oakie; 
Marline.  Jean  Arthur;  Sudden  Slade.  William  Boyd; 
Andrew  Marline,  \\  illiam  Morris;  Gopher  Brant.  Tom 
Kennedy;  Zella,  Wynne  Gibson;  Pete  Caltek,  Francis 
MacDonald;  Carlo.  Albert  Conti;  Falkner,  Harry 
Stubbs;  Sammy,  Ernie  Adams. 

"GENTLEMAN'S  FATE"— M-G-M.— From  the 
story'  by  Ursula  Parrott.  Continuity  by  Leonard 
Praskins.  Directed  by  Mervyn  LeRoy.  The  cast: 
Giacomo,  John  Gilbert;  Frank,  Louis  Wolheim; 
Marjorie,  Leila  Hyams;  Ruth,  Anita  Page;  Mabel, 
Marie  Prevost;  Florio.  John  Milian;  Mike,  George 
Cooper;  Angela,  Ferike  Beros;  Dante,  Ralph  Ince; 
Francesco,  Frank  Reicher;  Mario,  Paul  Porcasi; 
Tony,  Tenen  Holtz. 

"HOW  HE  LIED  TO  HER  HUSBAND"— 
British  International. — From  the  playlet  by 
George  Bernard  Shaw.  Directed  by  Cecil  Lewi-. 
The  cast:  He,  Robert  Harris;  She,  Vera  Lennox; 
Husband,  Edmund  Gwenn. 

"JAWS  OF  HELL"— Sono  Art-World  Wide.— 
From  the  story  by  Boyd  Cable.  Scenario  by  Robert 
Stevenson.  Directed  by  Maurice  Elvey  and  Milton 
Rosmer.  The  cast:  John  Kennedy,  Cyril  McLaglen; 
Jean  MacDonald,  Benita  Hume;  Nobby.  Alf  Goddard; 
Capl.  Gardner.  Miles  Mander;  Father  Nikolai.  Rob  rt 
Hclmes;  Natasha.  Bettv  Bolton;  Trooper  Strang.  \\  al 
Patch;  Capl.  Nolan.  Harold  Huth;  Lord  Raglan. 
J.  Fisher  White;  Prisoner's  Friend,  Clifford  Mollison; 
Prosecutor,  H.  St.  Barbe  West. 

"LOVE  KISS,  THE" — CELEBPrrY  Productions. 
— From  the  story  by  Rcbert  R.  Snody.  Directed  by 
Robert  R.  Snody.     The  cast:  Annabelle  Lee,  Olive 


JIIHI  ■«£ 


Ever  know  what  happens  to  a  miniature  golf  course  when  it  dies?  Some- 
times it  turns  into  a  trout  pool!  When  Ruth  Roland's  pee-wee  course 
went  bad,  she  flooded  part  of  it,  stocked  it  with  trout,  and  here  you  see 
the  young  folks  casting  for  speckled  beauties  in  the  heart  of  Hollywood! 


Every  advertisement  in  rilOTOrLAY  MAGAZINE  is  guaranteed. 


Photopi  ak  M  \t.\/iM   roa  Mascb,  r    i 


i  : 


■ 

u  a- 

hum.  Donald  Mrck;  K  »  ».   Kiij 

in;  .W/.y.  Smlb    M 

M  \\  PROM  CHIC  VGO.TH1       I 

mi  i  ins.      •  From    the    pi  i . 
Adapted   by  Waller  Summers  and  W'ultn   M 
Hit. .  ted  bs  W  .ilt.  r  Stimuli  i      I       ■ 
Bernard  Nedellj  hma  / 

Billy  Milton; 
I  (odo   Wall ..    fJ 

\  1 1  >.  rt    W  In  I. in;   .' 

ird   Do  •   .  Matthew 

Boulton;   Rossi.   Morris   Harvey;    Ted,   Ben  Wrlden; 
Chart  ,  P.  C,  Hon 

•M  \\'u  hoc  wir  B  \ck.thk      i 
tin-  pi  •  ■■    h\    Jules  I-,  kert  < ioodmi 

John    Fleming    Wilson.      Screen    pla>    b)     Edwin   J. 
Burke.       Directed     b;      Raoul    Walsh.       Tin 

i-«    Randolph,    Charles 
k.  nn<  th    MacKenna; 
Randolph, 
W  illi.ini     II  I   llri.  h     H 

William    J.    Worthington;    c 
I  ..iuliii.cn.  ;    /:  n-ie-D:.  ilon. 

"M  W'Y    \  SI  IP"      I'mm  IBAI        i  roi     11 

Id.    Screen  pla>  b>  Gladys  I.,  hman. 
Dim  ted  bj  \  In  Moon       ["hi 

Bennett;  Hopkins,  Slim  Suramer- 
Irginla 
Karns;  Mrs.  Cosier,  Vivian 
Oakland;  Mr.  c  tutor,  J.  C  Nugent. 

■Ml  \  ON  CALL" — Fax.— From  the  story  by 
Directed  by  John  Blystone. 

m-;  Helen  Gordon, 
:r,l  (  apiain,   W  ilh.nn    Hant- 
aan; Jo*  Burhe,  Warren  Hytni  r;  Perkins,  Joe  Brown; 
'  ■<■  Burke.  Ruth  Warren;  Mary  Burton,  Sharon 
Lynn;  Sttrfmuin,  George  Corcoran. 

"Mil. LIE" — Radio  PlCTVBBS. — Prom  the  novel 
by  Donald  Henderson  Clarke.  Screen  play  by 
Charles  Kenyon.  Directed  by  John  Francis  Dillon. 
Tbe  cast:  Millie,  Helen  Twelvetreea;  Helen.  Lilyan 
Tashman;  Tommy,  Robert  Ames:  Autit,  Joan 
Blondrll;  Jimmy  Damier,  John  ll.illnl.iv;  Jack  Mali- 
land,  James  Hall;  Connie,  Anita  Louise;  Attorney, 
Edmund  Breeae;  Holmes,  Frank  McHugn;  Sprint, 
lin  Parker;  Mrs.  Mailland,  Charlotte  Walker; 
Mark,  Harry  Stubbs;    I  Harvey    Clark; 

Mike.  Charles  Delaneyj  Miss  Vail:  Cannelita 
Gerainty,  Clara  ■'•  i        va  Mitchell;  Lstkt 

Harlan;    Bobby,    Mario     Astaire;     Landlady, 
Herring. 

"NIGHT  BIRDS"— British  International. — 
rio  by  Victor  Kendall.  Directed  by  Richard 
Eichberg.  The  cast:  Detective,  Jack  Rainc;  Deacon, 
Vakm\  Jameson  Tin. mas;  Doily,  Muriel  Angeltls;  Mary, 
Eve  Cray;  Chief  Inspector.  Frank  Perfitt;  Archibald 
Bunny,  Garry  Marsh;  "Scollie,"  D.  Hay  Petrie; 
"Toothpick"  Jeff,  Harry  Terry;  "Dancer"  Johnny, 
Cyril  Butcher. 

"NO  LIMIT" — PAS-AMOUNT. — From  the  story  by 
Marion.  Jr.      Screen  j'lay  by  Viola  Brothers 

Shore   and    Salisbury    Field.      Directed    by    Frank 

Tattle.  The  cast:  Barns?  O'Day,  Clara  Bow; 
Douglas  Thayer,  Norman  Foster;  Max  Mindil,  Harry 

Green;  Ole  I'hon,  Stuart  Frwin;  Dodo  Poller.  Dixie 
lee;  Joyce,  Thelma  Todd;  Curly.  Kenneth  Duncan; 
Happy,  Mischa  Alter ;  Romeo,  Maurice  Black; 
Wilkie,  William  Davidson;  Charlie,  G.  Pat  Collins; 
Armstrong,  Paul  Nicholson;  llannon.  Frank  HagDey. 

"ONCE  A  SINNER"— Fox.— From  the  story  by 
George  Middleton.     Directed  by  Guthrie  McClintic. 

The  cast:  Diana  Barry,  Dorothy   Mackaill;   Tommy 


'     ■ 

Hampton;  Janu 

Blane;  Marie,  Ninette  Faro;  Pierre, 

i 

"PAINTED    in  SE  R  r.    TH1        Pa 

I  hoi. iid   Hoi  hi  and    I  ..in   Bin  kin 

II  Hoi- 

Will  Walllri 

Brad)    Kill 

■   i  ;li  All.n  A. 

"RBSURRBCTION"     -  U  ran  the 

- 
Dmitri  Nekhludof,  John    H 

,i-     Vi  lei . 

mon  Kartinkin,  Inn-Kei  ' 
Mark;  Sj  l\  a   N'ailii 

Mmrehant),  Edward  Cecil 

^S   BENE  \riC    -Fax.— From  t; 
Parker,  Jr.    Screen  play  by  Dudley  N 
••  d  b>  J. dm  Ford.    Tin 

t-Maria  I  on 

tn,   Marion   Leasing;  "Lug"  Kan/man,  Warrei 

Hymcr;    "M  Oierty,    William    Collier,    St.; 

Walter  Met. rail;  Lieutenant  McCr, 

■:  Dick  ( 'abot,  <  ..n  brd  Pendti  ton;  '  I 

N  it  Pendleton;  art 
V-11Z,    Henry    Victor;    Praia    Schiller. 
1-17.'.  John  Coder;  Adalfh  Brueker,  Engineer  I 
Ferdinand     Schumann-Heinkj     Frut     Kampf,    2nd 

■  U-172,  Hans  Furberg;  Hoffman,  Kurt  Furbrrg; 
Winkler,    Harry    Tenbrook;    Loliia,    Mora    Man-; 

Terry    Ray:   Harrigan,    Ben   Hall; 
Harry    Weil;    Mernd,    Maurice    Murphy;    ii 
Captain,  Francis   I 

"SECOND    HONEYMOON.    THE"    —   Covu- 
NKNTAL.  —  From     the     novel     by     Rtihv     M. 

Adapted  by  Harry  o.  lloyt.  Directed  by  Phil 
Rosen.  Tlie  cast:  Mary  Huntley,  Josephine  Dunn; 
Jim     Huntley,      Edward      Earle;  rook. 

Ernest  HiUiard;  Edith,  Bendce  Elliott;  Maul.  Pern 
Emmett;  Sherff,  Harry  Allen;  Deputy,  Henry 
Roquemore. 

"SOUTHERNER.  THE"— M-C-M.— From  the 
v  Hess  Meredyth  and  Wells  Root.  Directed 
by  Harry  Pollard.  The  cast:  Jeffry,  Lawrence 
Tibbett;  Anionic.  Esther  Ralston;  Doc.  Roland 
Young;  Snipe,  Cliff  Edwards;  Rodman.  Purnell  B. 
Pratt;  Christine.  Hedda  Hopper:  Mrs.  Farraday, 
Emma  Dunn;  Hokcy,  Stein n  Fetchit;  George.  Louis 
Jchn  Bartels;  Carter  Jerome,  Theodore  Von  Kltz: 
Peter.  Wally  Albright,  Jr.;  Elsbeih,  Suzanne  Ran- 
somo;  Saomi,  Gertrude  Howard;  Jackson,  John 
Larkin. 

"SUNRISE    TRAIL.    THE"— Tiffany  Proimc- 
TIONS. — From  the  story  bv  Wellvn  Totman.    Directed 

by  J.  P.  McCarthy.     The  cast:  Texas,  Boh  St 

Coldie.  Blanche  Mchaffey;  Kansas.  Jack  Clifford; 
French  Sadie.  Gormainc  De  Neel;  Rand,  Eddie  Dunn; 
Sheriff,  Fred  Burns. 

"TRADER  HORN"— M-G-M.—  From  the  novel 
by  Efhelreda  Lewis.  Adapted  by  Dale  \'an  Every 
and  John  Thomas  Neville.  Screen  play  by  Richard 
■I  l>v  W.  S.  Van  Dyke.  The  cast: 
Harry  Carey;  Edwins  Booth;  Duncan  Renaldo; 
Mutia  Oinoolu;  and  Olive  Golden. 


Westerville,  Ohio 
I  want  to  tell  you  how  the  movies 
helped  me  to  put  one  over  on  my 
children. 

They  are  all  prosperous  city  folks. 
I  was  to  make  a  visit  to  see  them. 
I  knew  I  was  terribly  passe  in  clothes 
and  manners  and  diction.  I  had 
neglected  myself  terribly  on  the 
farm  making  money  to  help  the 
children  to  be  "higher  up."  I  went 
to  the  movies.  I  studied  the  stars 
and  everyone  else  in  the  play.  I 
studied    the    audience.      I    learned 


much  about  deportment,  dress  and 
manners  in  general.  I  studied 
diction.  That  is  where  I  adore  the 
talkies.  Their  pronunciation  is  al- 
ways correct,  their  English  faultless. 

I  spent  long  hours  in  practising 
their  talk.  I  learned  new  words,  and 
how  and  when  to  use  them.  Then 
after  weeks  of  finishing  I  shopped. 

When  country  Mother  appeared, 
they  were  astonished.  I  kept  my 
preparation  a  secret  and  just  let 
them    keep    wondering. 

Mrs.  Win.  Frazier 


v 

•  •    I  A  l  |-    I  "     .. 

"Ghic  <§ale— The 

Specialist 

tells 

about  the 
Rl.l  <  >K\I  of 
"OldtMan 

Wm-lcr'^k 


r 


NEVER  was  a  meaner  feller  than 
old  man  Wheeler.  Sharpened  the 
stumps  so  his  hired  hands  couldn't  sit 
down.  Worked  one  wife  to  death  an' 
married  another.  Allthewimmin  folks 
Sez  it  wouldn't  be  two  weeks  till  she 
dropped  a  powder  in  his  coffee  or  torch 
murdered  him.  Sez  if  she  did  you 
couldn't  git  a  jury  in  the  count}-  to 
convict  her. 

Well  sir,  two  weeks  went  by  an'  he 
not  only  was  alive  but  was  seen  to  pin 
now  an'  then.  Another  week  an  he 
was  whistlin'  at  dogs  an'  smilin'  at 
little  children.  Dug  up  the  poison  ivy 
he'd  planted  on  his  west  forty  acres  an' 
constructed  a  free  picnic  grounds. 

History  sez  every  great  feller  was 
inspired  by  some  woman,  an    I  figger 
it's  true  in  old  man  \\  heeler's  < . 
Instead  of  poisonin'  him  his  new  wife 
gave  him  some  little  chocolate  tablets. 


THOSE  "little  chocolate  tablets"  have  he- 
roine famous  under  the  name  of  Ex-Lax. 
The  Ex-Lax  formula  combines  delicious  choc- 
olate with  the  well  known  scientific  laxative 
ingredient,  phenolphthalein— of  the  rir;ht 
quality,  in  the  ripht  proportion,  in  the 
richt  dose.  It  provides  this  favorite  remedy 
of  the  medical  profession  in  its  most  pleasant 
and  effective  form. 

Ex-Lax  is  safe  and  effective  for  all  apes  — 
non-habit  forminp  —  convenient  —  delicious  ' 
1  \-Ijx  is  sold  by  your  druggist  in  handy 
tin  boxes  at  10c,  25c,  and  50c. 

Write  for  Free  Sample — 

ToTheF.x-LaxCompany,Dept.PH-51,P.O. 
i    Boxl7(.i,TimesPlazaStation, Brooklyn,  N.V. 

Keep  ''regular"  with 

EX- LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


When  you  write  to  advertisers  rlease  mention  PIIOTOrLAT  MAOAZIXTC. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  March,  1931 


New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  the 

Stars  tic  Photoplay 

"Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  represents  the  very  fin- 
est collection  of  beautiful  art  portraits  of  screen 
celebrities   ever   assembled    under   one    cover. 

250  Reproductions  in  Rotogravure  of  the  Stars,  and  the 
facts  you  want  to  know  about  them 

DO  YOU  MOW? 


• 


Which  feminine  stars  have  married  millionaires — 
»  hich  ones  foreign  titles? 

The  color  of  Claudette  Colbert's  hair? 

The  name  of  the  picture  that  made  Clara  Bow? 

How  much  Loretta  Young  weighs? 

Where  Chevalier  was  during  the  World  War? 

That  Raquel  Torres'  type  is  unique  on  the  screen? 

What  occupation  engages  Robert  Montgomery's 

leisure  hours? 
That  Stan  Laurel  came  to  America  as  understudy 

to  Charlie  Chaplin  in  a  stage  skit? 
Who  was  once  engaged  to  the  grandson'  of  the 

Kaiser? 
The  name  of  Irene  Rich's  husband? 


Why  Will  Rogers  became  a  screen  actor1 

Which  dramatic  school  Buddy  Rogers  attended? 

The  real  name  of  Lew  Cody? 

What  star  weighs  exactly  one  hundred  pounds? 

How  many  times  Alma  Rubens  has  been  married? 

How  the  talkies  gave  John  Boles  his  big  chance? 

Where  Bebe  Daniels  was  bom? 

How  old  is  Marie  Dressier? 

Whether  Jeanette  MacDonald  has  ever  married? 

How  Jack  Oakie  got  his  start? 

Gilbert  Roland's  nationality? 

Which  fair-haired  star  was  disowned  by  ber  father? 

That  Buster  Keaton  was  born  in  a  tent? 


The  answers  to  these — and  hundreds  of  other  questions — just 
the  information  that  you  and  your  friends  want  can  be  found  in 
"Stars  of  the  Photoplay." 

Size  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay,"  *]M  x  10H  inches;  individual 
portraits,  5H  x  lYi  inches.  A  biographical  sketch  accompanies 
each  portrait. 

You  can  obtain  this  remarkable  book  with  an  18  months  subscrip' 
tion  to  Photoplay  Magazine  for  only  $4.00.  "Stars  of  the  Photo' 
play"  sells  regularly  for  $1.25;  an  18  months  subscription  to  Photo- 
play $3.75.  The  regular  price  of  the  two  combined  is  $5.00.  You 
will,  therefore,  save  $1  00  by  taking  advantage  of  this  unusual  offer. 
We  recommend  the  combination  offer,  but  if  you  want  only  "Stars 
of  the  Photoplay,"  just  send  $1.25. 

This  combination  offer  is  an  ideal  Birthday  gift.  If  it  is  to  be 
sent  as  a  gift,  insert  the  name  of  the  person  to  whom  you  wish  it 
to  go,  on  the  coupon,  and  your  own  name  on  the  extra  line  at  the 
bottom  provided  for  this  purpose,  also  state  date  of  birthday,  and  a 
proper  notification  will  be  sent  to  the  recipient. 


Photoplay  Magazine  {Stars  of  the  Photoplay) 

919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


PH.  3-31 


Enclosed  please  find  S '. D  check    □  money  order     □  cash,  for  which  send  me 

t      New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  and  enter  my  subscription  to  Photoplat  Maga- 
zine lor  IS  months  ctfcctivc  with  the  next  issue. 

(Special  Rate:  $4.00  U.  S.  and  possessions;  $4.50  Canada;  $5.00  Foreign.) 

C  Th_-  New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay" — now  only  $1.25. 


\jme. 
Street  .  . 


Cit>. 


.State. 


C5- 


Gi/:/rom  [name] Birthday 

Brery  advertisement  In  PITOTOPLAT  MAGAZINE  1»  guaranteed. 


Photoplay  Macazini   fob  Match,  i     i 


37 


Brief  Reviews  ol 

Current  Pictures 

MINI   I  n  KKn\I    PAG]     16  I 
\\  \K    M    KM        M    (.    \l         \    i 

gone   wrong.     Grueaorne  and   ailly,   by   turn 
plctui  ■  i >i >•  -i  hi  in. nt       June    Wallcrc, 

Robert    Montgomery   and   Robert    Vm<  • 
t  .ill  doublj 
(Jan.) 

•     WAY  FOR  A  BAILOR  *   -John  G0- 

brrt  u  .1  h.  -mi.,    dlor,  witti  t..n.i\  humor  and 
row  dialogue.    Never  a  dull  moment.      •' 

\\  \\     1)1      \l  I      Ml  \.      I  III 
Tim    just    ml MCl    bring    good.      N 
Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr.  -  In  it.     |  $4pt.) 

WS8  i  \s  m<  i)  BOl  N  i>  illalo 

Hill.  Jr..  with  lu<  gum  and  horar  in  another  \\ 

• 

■THAT  A  WIDOW! 

but  in. in. i:      '  ■  rtain- 

Ing  in  light  farce.    Anyhow,  the  clol  II,  and 

deaervi  •  thn 

w  1 1  \  i    mi  N  W  INT    Universal.     Thh 
provi  anything,  but  Robert  Ellit  is  good  In  it.  (..Vf.) 

•     WROOPEB     United  \rtlsta.— Dot 
you're  t'M  ui>  on  musical  comedii 
"Whoopee"  Instead.    Eddie (  antoi  pulla  .i  k-ii:  a  min- 
im-.   Lavish,  all-  ret  anlcolot  production.    (Oct.) 

WIDOW  FROM  CHICAGO,  THE  First  Na- 
tional. VUce  White  ii  rtarred  In  this  conventional 
gangata  picture,     {Jan.) 

WILD   min    OF   IALIHARI— Travel    PUm. 

MihlK  Inten   ting  Vlrican  adventure— without  much 
raking.    (jr7*.) 

WINGS Ol    MtVENTURE— Tiffanv  Prodi: 

— Armula  Mtvea  I  .-(l  adventure  story  of 

movie  rx-rils  along  the  Mexican  border.    (Oct.) 

TANKKJ  DON,  THK— Richard  Tabnadge  Pro- 
dnctions.  —  Kit -hard  Talmadge  made  it  nimaeli  ami  it 
stars  his  muscles.  Western,  very,  very  meDo-drama. 
(Dar,) 

YELLOW  M  \SK.  THE— British  International.— 
An  attempt  to  mix  music,  comedy  and  melodrama. 
But  they  don't  mix.     (f«6.) 

rOUNG  WOODLEY—  British  International.— 
A  weO-made  transcription  of  the  stage  play  about 
adolescent  love.     English  east.     (Pre.) 

2WE]  HBRZBN  IM   3,  TAKT    Two  Hearts  in 

Walt/      1  imt  dated     Cinemas.   -The     most 

charming    sound    picture    yet    sent    from    Germany. 

nd  tuneful  operetta  in  the  Viennese  manner. 

(Jan.) 


Here's  Ernest  Schoedsack,  the  pa- 
tient genius  who  spent  nearly  a  year 
in  the  jungles  of  Sumatra  and  came 
out  with  the  great  film  called  "Rango," 
in  which  orang-outangs  are  the  stars. 
Schoedsack  also  made  "Grass"  and 
"Chang" 


How  to  .Have  JLovely  Lit 


ave  juoveiy 
lor  8  Hours 


3S 


10     1       I 
9        i-»    | 

You  apply  uliin  you  goo  it 

New  8-hour  lip  coloring  formulate  J  on  entirely 
new  color  principle.  Just  discovered  in  Paris 
by  Edna  Wallace  Hopper.  Waterproof.  Wear' 
proof.  Indelible.  Ends  constant"  making-up." 

Edna  Wallace  Hopper,  famous  stage 
beaatT,  discovered  it  in  Paris.  A  lip  color 
that  banishes  all  the  smearing  and  fleeting  life 
of  present  ways  in  make-up.  An  utterly  new 
kind  of  lipstick. 

She  sent  it  to  Hollywood,  and  it  swept 
through  the  studios  like  a  storm.  Old-time 
lipsticks  were  discarded  overnight. 

Now  —  Kissproof.  the  world's  largest  makers 
of  lipsticks,  has  obtained  the  formula  from 
Miss  Hopper,  and  offers  its  amazing  results  to 
you.  A  totallv  New  type  of  lipstick,  different 
from  any  other  you  have  ever  tried  .  .  . 
Kissproof  or  any  other  kind. 

You  put  it  on  before  you  go  out.  Then  for- 
get about  it.  Six  hours,  eight  hours  later  your 
lips  are  still  naturally  lovely! 

No  more  constant  making-up.  No  more 
fuss  and  bother.  Do  you  wonder  that  women 
are  flocking  to  its  use? 

Utterly  NEW  Principle 

It  is  different  in  formula  and  result  from  any 
previously  known  lipstick.  It  docs  what  no 
other  lipstick  does  or  has  ever  done  .  .  . 
actually  seems  to  last  indefinitely. 

That's  because  the  color  pigment  it  em- 
bodies has  never  before  been  used  in  a  lipstick. 


Eight  hours  later — lottly  lips  I 

It  holds  where  others  smear  and  wear — yet  it 
leaves  no  trace  Of  gKggy  residue. 

Then,  tOO,  it  is  g  true,  Na  i  i  RAi.  color.  Thus 
it  ends  that  artificial  smirk  women  have  tried 
for  years  to  overcome.  A  color  that  glorifies 
the  lips  to  pulse-ijuickening  loveliness — trust 
the  French  for  that! 

II  hot  Ti>   Is/.-  For 

To  obtain,  simply  ask  for  the  New  Kissproof 
Indelible  Lipstick  (or  Lip  and  Cheek  Rouge). 
And  — remember  it  is  Nor  the  "same"  as  any 
other  lipstick  known.  Don't  believe  that  just 
because  you  have  tried  Kissproof  before  — 
that  you  have  tried  this  one.  You  haven't; 
this  is  I'.NTl  RE  I.  v  N  i  w. 

Owing  to  tremendous  demand,  the  price  is 
as  little  as  50c  — Edna  Wallace  Hopper  paid 
$2.50  for  the  original  in  Paris.  Two  forms  at 
all  toilet  counters— lipstick  and  lip  and  check 
rouge. 

9/ie  NEW 

Jvissprooj 

Sjide/wle  lipstick 

Lipsticks  —  Black  and  red  enamel  strive/  case, 
75c.  Black  and  gold  case,  50c.  Lip  and  Check 
Rouge — purse  size,  red  and  black  enamel  vanity 
with  mirror,  50c.  Newest  Parisian  Shades: 
Theatrical,  Natural,  Raspberry,  Orange. 


BE  MODERN 
NO  GRAY 
HAIR 

The  modern  woman  doesn't 

permit    unsictuU  . 

natonc 

imparts  youthful  tuilli.incr. 

did  for  tonins  down  unnat- 
ural  bleached  or  henna  ilu 

u*k.  sure,  safe,  hari 
Approved  by  milli 

from  blnndr  to  black.   All  dealers;  50C. 
Or  send  10c  for  a  test  bottle. 

The  Kenton   Pharmacol  Co.,  Dept.    F-ll 
Brown  a  tone    Bldg.,  Coving  tor 

Canadian  Address,  Windsor,  Ont. 


WOW* 


B 


ROWNATONE 

GUARANTEED     HARMLES 


All  Standard  Makes 

Loarcat  Pn-ca  .it  uttwl  I- 
co  Wor  i  •  heat  nwlaa-Uo; 
wood,  Rfmircto-i.  K  ral.  , 
$«*•    Dv»l     '  j     Mff't.    original' 

frico.   Y-ureh    l-a>.-> 
r..l         EASIEST     TERMS     EVER 
OFFERED- PAT  ONLY    12C   A  DAY.     An 
ataodaxd  aiia—  hataj  n>od«la.  Fu'.r  Ctjarmotaed. 

Alto  Portable*  at  roducod  prices. 

Send  No  Monev—  *  '«  '"' 

seno  no  money   .  ■  ,  .       .   .  ■  „ 

•  C  .    of   car   rattofaabinc    aaltV 

DMakiBaT     a***   BVbeMM    like    p-w       A   .-      (•    •    of  «a    drraat  to-r 
aanng-a  and  ca..r-t»arn»er.t  paaa.     Ip.mI  l'r>cao  Dow  ocTaraw. 
far  Free  rataJoa:  at   lata,  aJao  10   d.p   Iral  offar.      No    nlilajoll— 

S  INTERNATIONAL  TYPEWRITER  EXCHANGE 

^___      231  affi  Monro*  St.  DoPArlrretnt  J:>2  Chicago 


■wa 


ocChCSteb 


Subscribe  for  PHOTOPLAY. 
Use  Coupon  on  Opposite  cP.i£,c. 


When  vou  write  to  advertisers  please  mention  PHOTOrLAY  MAG 


The  Million  Dollar  Baby 


All  sparkle,  dimples  and  bright-eyed  smile — that's 

Dorothy  Lee,  who  at  nineteen  has  a  talkie  contract 

that  will  collect  her  three-quarters   of   a  million 

before  it  wears  out 


HERE'S  one  to  try  over  on  your  Cinderella  complex! 
A  little  girl,  who  had  always  wanted  to  get  in 
pictures,  had  tried  to  crash  every  studio  gate  in  Holly- 
wood, gave  it  up  as  a  bad  job,  joined  the  Fanchon  and 
Marco  dancers,  went  to  Xew  York  to  do  musical  comedy  and 
signed  by  Radio  Pictures,  is  now — just  a  little  more  than  a 
year  afterwards — possessor  of  a  contract  which  states  that  she 
will  be  paid  three-quarters  of  a  million  dollars  by  the  time  it 
expires. 

Things  happen  pretty  quick  in  Hollywood.  One  of  the 
prettiest  and  the  quickest  is  Dorothy  Lee. 

I  torothy — otherwise  known  as  Midge — is  nineteen  years  old. 
She  is  four  feet,  eleven  and  a  half  inches  tall  and  weighs  ninety- 
five  pounds.  (I  guess  that's  what  you'd  call  being  worth  her 
weight  in  gold.) 

On  the  screen  she's  always  laughing.   Away  from  the  camera 

138 


One  of  the  prettiest, 
brightest  things  that  ever 
happened  in  Hollywood — 
little  Dynamite  Dorothy  Lee! 

By   Katherine    Albert 


her  little  face  is  as  serious  as  that  of  an  executive  about  to 
merge  a  couple  of  studios. 

She  hates  stockings  and  never  wears  'em.  She  hates  shoes, 
too. 

She  didn't  wear  stockings  at  her  own  wedding  and  imme- 
diately after  the  ceremony  was  over  (the  guests  were  still 
assembled)  she  took  off  her  shoes. 

You  could  put  her  in  your  hip  pocket  and  still  have  room  for 
a  good-sized  flask,  but  I  defy  you  to  keep  up  with  her,  athleti- 
cally, for  one  whole  day. 

She's  not  the  kind  of  actress  who  poses  for  publicity  pictures 
- — tennis  racket  in  hand,  golf  club  thrown  over  left  shoulder, 
and  that's  all. 

She  actually  does  things — tennis,  golf,  riding,  swimming. 
Well,  wasn't  she  the  star  player  on  her  lacrosse  and  hockey 
teams  in  high  school?  Couldn't  she  skin  the  cat  better  than 
any  kid  in  the  neighborhood?  Your  grandmother  would  have 
called  her  a  tomboy. 

WITH  "sitting  down"  games  she  has  no  patience.  Bridge 
makes  her  think — and  she  doesn't  like  that.  For  she's  all 
energy,  actual  physical  energy,  and  can  honestly  give  any  man 
a  pretty  good  game  of  whatever  she  attempts. 

Which  is  one  of  the  things  that  makes  her  husband  adore  her. 
The  husband  is  Jimmie  Fidler,  one  of  the  best  press  agents  in 
the  business. 

They  live  in  a  swell  house  at  Toluca  Lake — neighbors  of 
Jobyna  and  Dick  Arlen  and  Charlie  Farrell. 

There  is,  of  course,  a  swimming  pool  and  a  tennis  court  at 
the  side  of  the  house  and  at  the  back  is  a  big  room  devoted  to 
nothing  but  games. 

On  the  screen  Midge  is  the  baby-faced,  blank-eyed  cutie  with 
whom  Wheeler  and  Woolsey  do  a  succession  of  gags.  Wheeler 
and  Woolsey  started  out  as  a  comedy  team  but  Dorothy  makes 
it  a  trio.  You  remember  "Half  Shot  at  Sunrise,"  •Hook,  Line 
and  Sinker"  and  others. 

Xow  she's  to  be  a  star  in  her  own  right.  She  will  do  a  college 
story  and  that  remains  to  be  seen. 

With  Wheeler  and  Woolsey  she  is  perfect.  She  gives  an  elfin, 
sprite-like  quality  to  the  screen.  She  is  the  exact  foil  for  the 
funny  men. 

Xow  she  has  to  stand  on  her  own  two  tiny  feet.  (And  she 
doesn't  like  to  wear  shoes.) 

She  does  not  like  the  average  formal  party.  Too  energetic, 
too  strenuous  to  chat  discreetly  with  the  people  you  meet  at 
parties,  she  prefers  the  lustier  type  of  gathering  in  her  own  play 
room  where  nobody  dresses  up.  There  she  will  wear  you  out  at 
ping  pong. 

She  takes  her  success  quite  calmly.  She  thinks  it  strange 
that,  a  Los  Angeles  girl  herself,  she  had  to  go  to  Xew  York 
before  any  studio  would  consider  her.  Outside  of  this  it's  all 
perfectly  natural. 

And,  what's  more,  a  big  hunk  of  that  three-quarters  of  a 
million  will  be  put  away  in  a  sturdy  sock.  She  may  be  just 
nineteen.  She  may  be  the  smallest  thing  in  Radio  Pictures. 
She  still  knows  what  to  do  with  her  money. 


o/how  me  the  hi  is  bond 


IVORY     SNOW/ 

It  looks  like  snow.  It  molts  like  snow  instantly  in  lukewarm  water  —  into 
snowbanks  of  99  44,100%  Pure  Ivory  suds!  Try  Ivory  Snow.  See  how 
kind  it  is  to  delicate  silks  and  woolens  —  and  your  beauty-wishing  hands. 


who  hasn't  a  weakness 

for  smooth,  pretty  hands! 


Husbands  are  funny.  You  knew.  I  really  think  that 
they  an-  inure  sentimental  than  ire  are.  Deep  down 
in  their  hearts,  they  wish  thai  they  could  keep  us  ai 
fresh  and  lovely  aa  we  were  on  our  wedding  day  right 
to  our  very  finger-tips.  I  suppose  many  a  fond  bus- 
band  blames  himself.  He  "II  I  were  making 
more  money,  we  could  afford  a  maid.  'Jinn  she 
wouldn't  have  such  hard-worlring  hand 
He  is  likely  to  think  that  work  is  to  blame.  Perhaps 

you    do,    too.      I     know 
I     did     once    -  when     I 

thought  that  washing 
and   cleaning  was  such 

hard  work  that  I  needed 
the   help  of  strmiij  BOap. 

strong  "kitchen" 
so  ip  is  what  maki 
hands  get  red  and  puffy 

and    dry.     It    splits    the 
cuticle    and    makes    the 

nails  brittle.  And  in  cold 
weather,  our  hands  get  chap]  •  d  and  sore  bo  easfl]  ! 

Now  if  you  don't  feel  happy  about  your  hands,  I'd 
like  to  ask  a  favor  of  you.  Test  out  my  plan  do  your 
Usual  hard  work  with  a  mild,  jmrr  soap.  I  hope  that 
means  that  you'll  do  your  washing  and  cleaning  and 
dishwashing  with  gentle  Ivory  Buds! 

For  Ivory  w  ill  prove  to  you  that  a  mild  soap  can  do 
really  hard  work.  And  it  will  help  you  to  be  truly  eco- 
nomical. It  will  keep  your  colored  clothes  Fresh-tinted 
—  it  won't  fade  and  age  them,  as  strong  soap-  do.  Ivory 
will  preserve  the  gloss  on  your  painted  woodwork  and 
the  newness  of  your  linoleum  .  .  .  for  Ivory  has  none  of 
the  "eating"  action  of  harsh  "kitchen"  soap-. 

By  the  way,  have  you  tried  out  the  new  Ivory  Snow? 
You'll  find  it  wonderful  for  baby  woolens  and  nice  silks; 
its  fine  little  snowdrops  dissolve  instantly  and  com- 
pletely in  lukewarm  water! 

And  during  this  trying 
weather,  I  always  take 
rare  to  make  every  Ivory  ^^" 

task  a  beauty  treatment 
for  my  hands.  I  always 
dry  my  hands  carefully 
and  gently  push  the  cu- 
ticle down  with  my  towel 
to  keep  it  free.  Then,  even 
if  I  have  to  go  outd. 
right  away,  my  hands  keep 
soft  and  smooth. 

Do  try  this  plan,  won't  you ?  Then  your  husband  will 
be  prouder  of  you — and  you'll  be  happier!  Husbands 
like  to  be  twisted  around  smooth,  soft  fingers — and  it's 
part  of  our  business  to  keep  them  satisfied! 

CATHERINE    CARR     LEWIS 


Clean  teeth  -  firm  gums  - 
and  no  more  "Pink  tooth  brush!" 


TODAY  there  is  no  such   thing  as  tooth  paste.  It  keeps  the  teeth  clean,  and 

taking  care  of  your  teeth  if  you  neg-  sparkling    white.    Moreover,    if   you    will 

lect  your  gums  —  if  you  fail  to  keep  them  rub    Ipana    lightly    into    your    gums    each 

firm,  hard  and  healthy.  Otherwise  you  run  time  you  clean  your  teeth,  it  will  bring  a 

the  risk  of  gingivitis,  trench  mouth  or  even  healthy  glow  to  the  gums,  and  keep  them 

pyorrhea.  You  risk  the  possible  loss  of  firm  and  hard.  Ipana  and  massage  —  that's 

even  the  soundest,  whitest  teeth  through  today's  answer  to  today's  most  common 

infection  at  the  roots!  oral  health  trouble:      pink  tooth  brush". 

In  these  modern  days  we  eat  almost  no      — 

coarse  foods,  and  lacking  natural  stimula-  bristol-myers  co.,  DePt.  1.31 

75  West  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

tion,  our  gums  grow  lazy,  flabby,  and  ten-  Kindly  serid  me  a  triai  tube  of  ipana  tooth  paste. 

d_    o »u         1                      Li        J                1            1  Enclosed  is  a  two-cent  stamp  to  cover  partly  the  cost  of  pack- 
er, boon  they  begin  to  bleed— and  we  have  ingand  mailing. 

"pink  tooth  brush"  ! 

_  j {      ,  Kami 

To  prevent     pink  tooth  brush",  the 

gums  must  be  cared  for.  s,r'" 

Ipana  Tooth  Paste  is  a  scientific  modern      ciy siau 

CB.-M.  Co.,  1931 


\ 


What 

Hollywood 
Did  To 

Cinitpjn 


$2000.00  For 

Yo  u  r 

Picture     idea 


The    Inside 
Story    of 

Gaynor  and 

Fnrrpl 


BECAUSE 
THEY  ARE 

Well-groomed 

IN 

ALL  THINGS 


JDecause  they  are  fastid- 
ious in  all  phases  of  enjoyment  .  .  . 
it  is  only  natural  that  these  charming 
people  were  the  first  to  take  up  Spud. 
In  Spud,  they  found  not  only  the  sud- 
den new  freedom  in  old-fashioned 
tobacco  enjoyment  .  .  .  but  also  that 
well-groomed,  welcome  sensation  of 
being  continually  "mouth -happy." 
The  Axton-Fisher  Tobacco  Com- 
pany, Inc.,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 


SPUD 

MENTHOL-COOLED 

CIGARETTES 


i 


20  FOR   20c  (U.  S.)   .  .   .   20   FOR   30c   (CAN.) 


Photofi  \\   Mac  mini    i  or  Apbii 


J«#  ivatch  me,  Mother, 

111  never  get 
pink  tootk  brush"! 


CHECK  "PINK  TOOTH   BRUS 

WITH 


„  I PANA 

TOOTH   PASTE 


i     i 

JON:  Now  !..;•■  b,  mocherl  Wauh  • 

Mot  111  ii  :  II  '/.it  arc  you  up  to. 

ion:  I'm  fickle  how  to  in. 

gums     v>  lie  won't  ever  gc;  ocb 

brush"! 

moihik:  Who  on  ur:h  %  ut  " ptnl: 

bruih  " J 

son:  Why,  the  teacher'  She  told  us  all  about  it. 
The  way  our  gums  get  lazy,  because  we 
won't  cat  food  unless  it  just  melts  in  our 
mouths.    And  so  you  got  to  i:  mr 

gums,  to  keep  'cm  hard  and  health 
you  don't,  they  begin  to  bleed.    And  that's 
just  too  darn  bad. 

mother:  Serious,  you  mean1. 

son:  Sure  it's  serious!  Why,  mother,  you  ought 
to  know  that,  as  old  as  you  arc.  Why,  if 
\ou  have  "pink  tooth  brush"  you're  liable 
to  get  something — a  disease  that's  spelled 
g-i-n-g-i-v-i-t-i-s.  Or  you  might  get  Vin- 
cent's Disease.  Or  you  might  even  get  p> — 
/^-something. 

mother:  Pyorrhea? 

son:  That's  it.  And  that's  not  all.  If  Jackie 
doesn't  massage  his  gums,  he'll  probably 
have  false  teeth  when  he  gets  about  20  or 
30.  Because  if  the  roots  of  your  teeth  ever 
get  'fected — 

mother:  In-fected. 

son:  Well,  anyway,  if  they  do,  off  to  the  dentist 
you  go.  And  have  a  heck  of  a  time  getting 
■  lot  of  teeth  pulled.  I  wouldn't  be  a  bit 
surprised  if  you  have  "pink  tooth  brush" 
yourself,  mother. 

mother:  No,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  I  haven't.  Be- 
cause I  use  Ipana  Tooth  Paste  just  as  you  do. 
And  it  has  ^iratol  in  it — which  is  uhat  the 
dentist  uses  to  stimulate  the  gums  and  keep 
them  firm  and  healthy. 

son:  Yeah.  I  know  all  about  ziratol.  But  the 
best  way  to  really  keep  your  gums  in  great 
shape  is  to  put  some  more  Ipana  on  your 
brush  after  you've  cleaned  your  teeth.  And 
rub  it  in  your  gums.  Like  this.  Sec?  Look, 
mother,  don't  my  gums  look  hard — and 
healthy?  So  will  Jackie's — if  he'll  massage 
his  gums  with  Ipana  every  single  day  — 
twice  a  day.  Just  the  way  my  teacher  said. 


■  "    ~=m 

BRISTOL-MYERS  CO  .  Dept.  Ml 
73  West  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Kindly  send  me  a  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH  PASTE. 
Enclosed  is  a  two-cent  stamp  to  cover  partly  the  cost  of 
packing  and  marling. 

Samt 

Strut 

Gtj Su>a 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


cTUR6    S6NS0TION   OF    ^ 


JESSE  L.  I.ASKY 


LN  the  twenty  years  of  my 
experience  as  a  producer  of 
motion  pictures  I  have  never  been  prouder 
of  any  production  than  I  am  of  "Rango." 
W  i th  a  definite  idea  and  storv  in  mind,  we 
sent  Mr.  Ernest  Schoedsack,  co-producer  of 
"("hang,"  "Grass"  and  "The  Four  Feathers." 
into  the  densest  jungles  of  Sumatra,  to  film 
this  story  in  sound.  There  Mr.  Schoedsack 
spent  a  vear,  grimlv  enduring  great  priva- 
tions and  danger.  The  picture  he  brought 
hack  gave  me  one  of  the  most  amazing 
experiences  I  have  ever  had  in  the  theatre, 
and  it  is  with  the  greatest  personal  pride 
that  I,  with  my  associates,  offer  it  to  the 
American  public. 


r- 


First  Vicc-Pre*. 
Paramount  PublixCorp 


(^paramount  (J)idum- 


PARAMOUNT  PI  BLIX  CORP.,  ADOLPH  ZIKOR,  PRES. 
PARAMOUNT  BLDC.  NEW  YORK  CITY 


PHOTOPLAY 


The  World'i  Lead  i 


loll      I     I 


t  u  i  i-    I'  ii  I)  I  i  c  a  t ion 


V..I.  XXXIX  Xo.  5 


J  \Mi:s   K.Ollkk.  Editor  and  Publish* 


April,  1931 


Leonard  Hall,  Managing  Editor 


■ 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  tor 
the    hest    picture    of   the    year 


1920  i":* 

"HUMOR-         "The 
ESQUE"    COVERED 

WAGON" 


1926 

"BEAU 
GESTE" 

1927 


ItZl  e>24 

TOL'ABLE  '  \hk  \H\M     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN' 


!"■  • 

102S 

1^2S 

"ROBIN 

"THE  BIG 

"POUR 

HOOD" 

PARADE" 

U)2>) 

'  DISRAELI" 

SON^ 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets         ...  6 

Friendly  Advice  on  (J  iris' 

Problems 10 

Hollywood  Menus BS 

Questions  and  Vnswers      ...  94 

These  New  Faces        8(5 

Addresses  of  the  Stars            .     .  10-i 

-  of  Current  Photoplays            .  141 


High-Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots James  R.  Quras 

Dietrich     Bow  She  Happened OttoToukhi 

How  "Trader  Horn"  Waa  Made 

Binatein  in  Hollywood EIabbyLam 

The  Mo-t  Romantic  Love  Story  in  Film  History  ...     38 

Love,  Marriage  and  Divorce  in  Hollywood    -This  Month.       .       .         10 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood \i 

"Hello  Mary" Edwin  Monro*     .'>■'> 

Seymour     Photoplay's  Style  Authority. 59 

12,000  for  Your  Picture  [dea 66 

\  Pictorial  Visit  to  Ramon  Nbvarro's  Sel  During  the  Making  of 

"Daybreak" (is 

Exploding  the  Garbo  Myth Kathbbine  Albert     70 

Reeling  Around Leonard  Hall 

A  Twelve- Year  Miracle  in  Hollywood! 7(> 

Cover  Design  Charles  Farrell  and  Janet  Gaynor     .       Bt  Earl  Chbdjti 

Photoplays  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 8 

The  Shadow  Stage 18 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month or. 

Personalities 

'Heady  on  the  Set  !" H 

"  You  Should  See  My  Kid  Sister'*, :$1 

Irene's  Secret    Marn .. Ron  Burt  35 

Bebe  and   Hen  and  Their  Little  25-Room  Hovel  at  Santa   Monica    . 

Money  I>  XD.Ioke BabbtLanci  .">  I 

What?    No  Guns?. Leonard  Hall  56 

"I  Want  to  Live  Happily  Ever  After"      ....        Ruth  Biebt  65 

Now  It's  Bobby  Coogan 71 

The  Greatest  Actress 146 

Sbort  Stories 

Love  Is  Expensive Dixif.  Willsom     32 

Swindle,  Swindle  Little  Star Cbabueb  Fbabcb  Cob     46 


Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 
Editorial  Offices.  221  W.  57th  St..  New  York  City  Publishing  Office.  919  X.  Michigan  Ave..  Chicago.  111. 

The  International  News  Company.  Ltd..  DistributingAgents,  5  Bream's  Building.  London.  England 

James  R.  Quirk.  President  Robert  M.  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathryn  DOUQBBRTT,  Secretary  and    Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  S2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba:  S3. 00  Canada;  S3.50  for  foreign  countries.     Remittances 

should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    CAUTION — Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24.  1912.  at  the  Postoffice  at  Chicago.  Ill  ,  under  the  Act  of  March  3.  1879. 

Copyright.  1931,  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company-.  Chicago 


Brickbats  &  Bouquets 


The  S25  Letter 

T_TLRE  is  my  prescription  for  the  perfect 


movie  actress: 


Jeanette  MacDonald's  voice. 
Clara  Bow's  S.  A. 

Constance  Bennett's  languorous  charm. 
Joan  Crawford's  figure. 
Greta  Garbo's  poise. 
Jean  Harlow's  golden  hair. 
Loretta  Young's  smile. 
Lillian  Roth's  dimples. 
Lupe  Velez'  vivaciousness. 
Gloria  Swanson's  ability  to  wear  clothes. 
Marlene  Dietrich's  legs. 
Kay  Johnson's  naturalness. 
Norma  Talmadge's  eyes. 
Ruth  Chatterton's  dramatic  ability. 
Louise  Smith. 
New   York  City 

The  810  Letter 

THE  talkies  are  a  School  for  Chum  and  I. 
for  one,  am  an  eager  pupil.  I  get  ideas 
on  every  feminine  subject.  Ideas  on  dress- 
ing chicly ;  on  a  thousand  and  one  ways  to 
wear  a  bob;  on  the  use  and  abuse  of  make- 
up; on  matters  of  etiquette;  on  how  to  say 
inane  things  interestingly;  on  the  sort  of 
note  to  leave  your  husband  when  you  run 
away  with  his  best  friend;  on  how  to  com- 
mit murder  gracefully;  on  the  gentle  art  of 
sipping  tea;  how  to  walk,  sit,  stand;  how  to 
cry  effectively;  how  to  radiate  'It."  And, 
as  a  finishing  touch,  the  talkies  are  making 
me  voice-conscious. 

Could  I  .uk  for  anything  more? 

Gladys  Charnas, 
Miami   Beach.   Fl.i. 

Tin-  s._,  Letter 

T\  THEN  the  people  who  write  the  movie 
**   ads  describe  a  zero  show  as  being  'mag- 
nificent,   marvelous,    thrilling,    outstanding, 
tremendous,    never-to-be-forgotten,    spectac- 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Critics 

PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten   and   Five   Dollar   Prizes   for  the 

Best    Letters 


Just  plain  spiteful  letters  won't  be  printed,  for  we  want 
to  be  helpful  when  we  can.  Don't  write  more  than  200 
words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your  name 
and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't  write. 
Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  Photoplay,  221  West 
57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the  right 
to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations.  Come  on  in 
and  speak  your  mind! 


ular"  how  can  they  do  justice  to  a  100  per 
cent  show?  They're  already  run  out  of  ad- 
jectives on  the  punks. 

Charlie  J.  Webb, 
Greenville,  Texas 


CLARA  BOW— the  name  has  fairlv 
shrieked  through  the  mails  since  the 
mess  started.  And  the  fans  are  for 
Clara,  body  and  even  soul.  Eight  hun- 
dred  and  fifty-two  letters  about  her  were 
written  to  PHOTOPLAY  and  not  one 
letter  that  is  not  sympathetic.  Abuse  is 
heaped  on  the  unfortunate  Miss  DeVoe's 
head  by  loyal  sympathirers  who  feel  that 
the  little  Brooklyn  girl's  private  life  is 
her  own  and  they  want  to  see  her  in 
bigger  and  better  stories.  Give  her  a 
break! — say  the  fans. 

The  Garbo  versus  Dietrich  contro- 
versy still  continues  to  be  a  headliner. 
The  Dietrich  followers  are  growing,  but 
many  of  those  who  have  seen  Garbo  in 
"Inspiration"  say  she  is  just  too  breath- 
taking. "The  Blue  Angel"  comes  in  for 
heavy  criticism. 

Janet  Gaynor  and  Charlie  Farrell  get 
an  enthusiastic  welcome  on  their  return 
together  in  "The  Man  Who  Came 
Back,"  but  opinions  on  the  picture 
differ.  The  fans  agree,  however,  that 
thev  should  never  be  parted  again. 

"Reducing"  brings  out  the  fact  that 
Marie  Dressier  is  the  "screen"  favorite. 
How  the  fans  love  her!  Complaints 
galore,  however,  that  the  crash  of 
laughter  following  a  gag  drowns  out  the 
ensuing  dialogue.  The  producers  will 
have  to  figure  out  something  to  remedy 
this. 

Everybody  went  strong  for  "Cimar- 
ron," and  bouquets  are  heaped  on 
Richard  Dix  and  Irene  Dunne  for  their 
fine  performances.  All  the  Will  Rogers 
fans  sav  he  is  great  in  "Lightnin',"  and 
Barbara  Stanwyck  won  a  lot  of  friends 
for  her  work  in  "Illicit." 

"Give  us  better  picture  titles!"  wail  the 
fans,  who  resent  misleading  catch  words 
and  phrases,  which  producers  use  to 
lure  them  into  the  theater.  "The  Call 
of  the  Flesh"  and  "A  Lady's  Morals"  are 
two  examples.  Whv,  thev  ask,  all  the 
titles  about  SIN,  HELL  and  DEVIL? 


Clara  Bow 

Why  should  pathetic,  misguided  little 
Clara  Bow  be  made  the  recipient  of  all  this 
petty  publicity  because  of  Miss  DeVoe's 
dishonesty? 

To  be  frank,  I  have  never  admired  Miss 
Bow's  type,  but  my  sense  of  fair  play  forces 
me  to  protest  the  injustice  done  her  and  I 
most  sincerely  hope  that  her  public  will  not 
be  affected  by  the  small,  mean  statements 
of  an  ungrateful  parasite. 

Mrs.  C  A.  Templeton, 

Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Clara  Bow  had  a  chance  to  live  down 
this  murky  newspaper  publicity  in  her  next 
picture,  "City  Streets,"  and  now,  through 
the  unfortunate  lawsuit  with  her  double- 
crossing  secretary,  the  picture  is  to  be  made 
with  a  Broadway  star. 

The  public  wants  their  own  movie  stars 
in  the  talkies,  so  long  as  their  voices  meas- 
ure up  to  their  acting  ability. 

Alice  Sieber, 
Tulsa,  Okla. 

Come  on!  Give  Clara  Bow  a  break! 
She's  a  wonderful  kid,  and  what  a  person- 
ality ! 

Give  her  a  real  story,  instead  of  the  wild, 
cheap  pictures  she's  been  playing  in,  and 
see  what  happens ! 

Betty  Lfwis. 
Atlanta,  Ga. 

Garbo  vs.  Dietrich 

WE  must  admit  that  Dietrich  is  a  great 
actress. 
Certainly    everyone    who    has    seen    both 
Romance"  and  "Morocco"  will  agree  that 
Dietrich    surpasses    Garbo    in    beaury    and 
personality. 

And  those  eyes! 

Margueritte  Amos, 

Kingston,  N.  C. 

Why  bring  in  a  terrible  foreign  produc- 
tion like  Blue  Angel"  with  Marlene 
Dietrich?  We  shout  loud  and  fierce,  "Send 
her  back!" 

Harold  Murray, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

[please   turn  to   page    10] 


Photoplay  Magazine  fob  Aran.,  I     1 


The$7.70  Show  that  Thrilled  Broadway  for  Two  Seasons 
Now  Bigger,  Grander,  Funnier  on  the  Vitaphone  Sereeu 

—  hikI  most  of  the  original  Broadway  Stars  are  in  it! 

Why  do  Americans  go  to  Paris?  To  taste  the  wine? 

To  meet  the  girls?  To  see  the  shows?  Perhaps  — 

hut  especially  to  find  out  just  what  it  is  that  fifty 

million  Frenchmen  can't   be   wrong   about! 

Here's  your  chance   to   learn   the   secrets  of 

la  vie  Parisien  without  crossing  the  ocean 

and  getting  your  feet  wet.       » 

FIFTY    MILLION    FRENCHMEN 

M  &OMd  an  thr  pltiv  hv  llrrbrrl  /•  tWr/i 
Thf  *<  rt-rn  aJaptaSUM  WOM  mini''  l>v 
Ja%rj>h    Jark*nn,    At    IltHubfrg  anrl 

I.l.lir    It, 1,1, 
Photnernfth,  ,1   h\-    Trrhnir,tl->r 

Dirwetmd     -    I  I  <>VI)  BACON 

WILLIAM  GAXTOH 


JOHN      ^ 
II  U  I  II)  v\     | 


OLSEN   VM) 
JOB 


Vitaphone"  is  the  re fitter eri  trademark 
of  The  Vitaphone  Corporation 


A  WARNER  BROS.  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


•  ABRAHAM  LINCOLN— United  Artists.— D. 
W.  Griffith  has  painted  the  great  humanity  of  a 
great  man  with  a  master  touch.  Walter  Huston  is 
a  majestic  Lincoln.     (Oct.) 

AFRICA  SPEAKS— Columbia.— Interesting  trav- 
elogue  with  animal  thrills,  considerably  dramatized. 
Hut  it  lias  a  kick.     (Dec.) 

ALMOST  A  HONEYMOON  —  Hritish  Inter- 
national.— A  light  bedroom  farce.  The  gags  would 
have  been  funny  ton  years  ago.   Wry  mild.    (March.) 

ALOHA— Rogell  Tiffany  Production.— The  old 
"Bird  of  Paradise"  plot  made  over  for  the  talkies. 
Some  quite-good  comedy  and  a  lot  of  surefire  sob 
stuff.  Ben  Lyon  and  Raquel  Torres  work  hard. 
(March.) 

ALONG  CAME  YOUTH— Paramount.— Just  a 
light  Charles  f Ex-Buddy)  Rogers  picture,  with  laughs 
from  Stuart  Erwin.  Nobody  sings,  anyway.  And 
that's  something.     (Dec.) 

ANIMAL  CRACKERS— Paramount.— The  Four 
Marx  Brothers,  who  scored  in  "The  Cocoanuts,"  turn 
another  of  their  musical  shows  into  a  talkie  comedy, 
and  click  again.     (Oct.) 

ANYBODY'S  GI  RL— Columbia.— A  realistic 
story  of  a  taxi-dancer's  disillusionment.  Barbara 
Stanwyck  ana  Ricardo  Cortez  are  great.    (Feb.) 

ANYBODY'S  WOMAN— Paramount.— Ruth 
Chatterton  as  a  hard-boiled  burlesque  queen.  The 
story  misses  greatness,  but  the  Chatterton-Brook  team 
is  well  worth  your  money.    (Oct.) 

ARE  YOU  THERE?  —  Fox.  —  Beatrice  Lillie, 
comedy  queen  of  London,  tries  hard  to  be  funny  as 
a  lady  detective,  but  she  never  quite  clicks.  Bee 
isn't  there,  nor  is  her  picture.     (Nov.) 

ATLANTIC— British  International.— English  dia- 
logue may  bore  you.  but  the  melodrama  must  have 
been  based  on  the  Titanic  catastrophe  and  it  affords 
some  creditable  sea  thrills.     (Dec.) 

BACHELOR  FATHER,  THE— M-G-M.— Marion 
Davies  at  her  best  in  a  sprightly,  sophisticated  com- 
edy.   Good  for  one  million  laughs.    (Feb.) 

•  BAT  WHISPERS,  THE— United  Artists.— 
Daddy  of  all  scare  movies,  and  it's  a  lulu. 
The  cameramen  and  Chester  Morris  share  first 
honors.      (Jan.) 

•  BEAU  IDEAL— Radio  Pictures.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Devil's  Battalion") — A 
spectacular  sequel  to  "  Beau  Geste."  made  with  many 
of  the  same  actors.  A  great  picture  in  which  Ralph 
Forbes,  Lorctta  Young  and  Don  Alvarado  do  great 
work.     (Feb.) 

BIG  MONEY— Pathe.— Eddie  Quillan's  luck  at 
cards  drags  him  among  the  big-time  gamblers.  But 
it's  all  a  lot  of  fun  and  Eddie's  fresh  wisecracks  will 
convulse  you.      (Jan.) 

•  BIG  TRAIL,  THE— Fox.— Now.  here's  an 
epicl  Buffalo  hunt.  Indians,  thrills,  pictorial 
beauty.  Raoul  Walsh's  supreme  directorial  achieve- 
ment. Greater  than  "The  Covered  Wagon."  John 
Wayne,  newcomer,  moves  right  into  the  star  class. 
(Nov.) 

•  BILLY  THE  KID— M-G-M— Johnny  Mack 
Brown  gives  the  show  of  his  life  as  the  boy  out- 
law. Not  history.  But  who  wants  history/  The 
movie's  a  pip.     (Dec.) 

•  BLUE  ANGEL,  THE— UFA-Paramount.— 
Emil  Jannings'  first  talkie  in  English.  And  it's 
a  knockout.  So  is  Marlene  Dietrich  as  the  woman 
who  drives  a  man  mad.    (Feb.) 

BOUDOIR  DIPLOMAT.  THE— Universal.— 
Sophisticated  comedy,  cleverly  acted  by  Betty  Comp- 

Bon  and  Ian  Keith.   A  few  dull  moments  but  many  de- 
lightful ones,  subtly  naughty.     (Dec.) 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 

■^ Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


BROTHERS— Columbia.— Bert  Lytell  acts  a 
dual  rfile  in  a  mildly  effective  melodramatic  thriller. 
(Jan.) 

CAPTAIN  APPLEJACK— Warners— All  in  fun 
— and  what  fun!  A  blase  young  man  finds  adventure 
among  the  pirates.  Heavy  loving  between  John 
Halliday  and  Kay  Strozzi,  with  Mary  Brian  as  the 
nice  girl.     (Nov.) 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  romantic 
bandit  rights  some  wrongs.  You  know  the  plot, 
but  it's  still  a  lot  of  fun.  Victor  Varconi  is  the  dash- 
ing Captain  and  Fay  Wray  airs  her  cute  Spanish 
accent.     ( Nov.) 

CAT  CREEPS,  THE  — Universal.— Your  old 
friend,  "The  Cat  and  the  Canary,"  now  a  talkie. 
Shivers  and  thrills!  A  wow  scare-movie.  Neil  Hamil- 
ton leads  a  great  cast.     (Dec.) 

CAUGHT  CHEATING— Tiffany  Productions- 
George  Sidney  and  Charlie  Murray  get  tangled  with 
a  Chicago  gangster's  wife  and  are  taken  for  a  ride. 
Fast-moving  and  pretty  good  fun.      (March.) 


If  You  Want 

a  Job  in 
Hollywood — 

It  would  be  well  to  read 
the  article  in  next  month's 
Photoplay  which  tells  the 
amazing  variety  of  posi' 
tions  in  motion  picture 
studios,  and  what  these 
positions  pay. 


CHARLEY'S  AUNT— Columbia.— The  old  farce 
is  still  funny.  Charles  Ruggles  makes  it  worth  seeing 
again.      (Jan.) 

•  CHECK  AND  DOUBLE  CHECK— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Amos  'n'  Andy  materialize  on  the 
screen,  with  Kingfish  and  the  Fresh  Air  Taxi!  Dis 
am  entertainment!     (Dec.) 

CHISELERS  OF  HOLLYWOOD— Willis  Kent 
Productions. — First-rate  entertainment.  Hokum, 
humor  and  heart.  Phyllis  Barrington,  a  newcomer, 
does  great  work.    (Feb.) 

•  CIMARRON— Radio  Pictures.— The  thrilling 
story  of  the  pioneer  West,  superbly  transferred 
to  the  screen.  Richard  Dix  re-establishes  himself  as 
a  star,  and  heads  a  remarkable  cast.    (Feb.) 

•  CITY  LIGHTS— Chaplin-United  Artists.— 
The  one  and  only  Chaplin  makes  another 
masterpiece.  Magnificent  comedy  and  heartbreak- 
ing pathos  intermingled.  You  can  see  it  again  and 
again.      (March.) 

COHENS  AND  KELLYS  IN  AFRICA,  THE— 
Universal. — Charlie  Murray  and  George  Sidney.  A 
scream  from  start  to  finish.      (Jan.) 


COLLEGE  LOVERS— First  National.— The  old 
football  stuff,  even  if  the  hero  doesn't  make  a  last 
minute  touchdown.  Jack  Whiting  and  Marian  Nixon 
are  the  lovers.     (Nov.) 

COMMAND  PERFORMANCE,  THE— Cnize- 
Tiffany  Productions. — A  bright  and  spicy  comedy 
about  one  of  those  engaging  mythical  kingdoms. 
Neil  Hamilton  is  simply  grand.    (Feb.) 

CONCENTRATIN'  KID,  THE -Universal.— 
Hoot  Gibson  falls  in  love  with  a  radio  voice.  A 
weak-sister  for  Hoot.     (J a  n.) 

COSTELLO  CASE,— Sono  Art— James  Cruze.— 
The  sweethearts  are  suspected  of  murder  again. 
Tom  Moore  is  the  wise  copper.  Pretty  obvious 
melodrama.     (Jan.) 

•  CRIMINAL  CODE,  THE— Columbia.— Don't 
miss  this  powerful  prison  drama.  You'll  never 
forget  it.  Walter  Huston  and  Phillips  Holmes  head  a 
brilliant  cast.     (Feb.) 

DAMAGED  LOVE— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— 
Pretty  mild.  June  Collyer's  charm  and  dimples 
save  it  from  being  an  entire  waste  of  time.    (March.) 

DANCE  FOOLS,   DANCE— M-G-M.— Fast  and 

thrilling  entertainment.  Joan  Crawford  again  proves 
herself  a  great  dramatic  actress.  Billy  Bakewell  fine 
as  the  weak  young  brother  who  falls  in  with  gang- 
sters.     (March.) 

DANCERS,  THE— Fox.— A  rambling,  younger 
generation  drama  which  isn't  at  its  best  on  the  screen. 
The  players,  including  Lois  Moran  and  Phillips 
Holmes,  do  their  best.    (Vcb.) 

DANGER  LIGHTS— Radio  Pictures.— You'll  be 
all  over  the  seat  during  the  wild  ride  into  Chicago, 
with  Robert  Armstrong  at  the  throttle  and  Louis  Wol- 
heim  dying  in  a  coach  behind.    (Oct.) 

DAWN  TRAIL,  THE— Columbia.— A  good  Buck 
Jones  Western  with  a  rip-roarin'  fight  between  the 
sheep  and  cattle  men.    (Feb.) 

DERELICT— Paramount.— Big  Boy  Bancroft  and 
William  (stage)  Boyd  fight  a  grand  fight.  And  there 
are  lots  of  storms  at  sea.  Why  sorry  about  the  story? 
(Dec.) 

•  DEVIL  TO  PAY,  THE— United  Artists-Sam- 
uel Goldwyn. — Ronnie  Colman  breezes  through 
a  tasty,  spicy  little  comedy.  Great  cast,  sparkling 
dialogue  and  finished  production.     (Feb.) 

DICH  IIAB  ICH  GELIEBT  (Because  I  Loved 
You) — AAFA-Tobis. — Though  it's  in  German,  you 
needn't  understand  the  language  to  enjoy  this  sweet 
love  story.     (Jan.) 

DIVORCE    AMONG    FRIENDS.— Warners. 

— Heigh  ho,  the  husband  and  wife  quarrel  and  make 
up!    Lew  Cody  is  the  only  bright  spot.    (Dec.)  . 

DOORWAY  TO  HELL,  THE— Warners.— Lew 
Avns  as  a  gangster  with  a  Napoleonic  complex- 
Lew  is  great.     The  picture's  pretty  good.     (Nov.) 

DOUGHBOYS— M-G-M.— An  evening  of  laughs. 
Sad-faced  Buster  Keaton  wanders  through  some  of 
the  funniest  gags  ever.     (Oct.) 

DRACULA — Universal. — A  mystery'  story  full  of 
creeps  and  thrills.  Helen  Chandler  grand  as  the 
terrified  heroine,      (\tarch.) 

DU  BARRY— WOMAN  OF  PASSION— United 
Artists.— Passion?  Well,  hardly.  Norma  Talmadge 
gives  a  hint  of  her  old  fire,  but  loses  in  the  fight 
against  long,  artificial  speeches.  Conrad  Nagel  and 
William  Farnum  are  excellent.     (Nov.) 

EASIEST  WAY,  THE— M-G-M.— A  modern 
sophisticated  story,  beautifully  directed.  Constance 
Bennett.  Adolphe  Menjou.  Anita  Page  and  Bob 
Montgomery  do  some  grand  acting — and  what 
costumes!      (March.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  12  ] 


8 


PhOTOPI  \v    M  \i.\/im     i  OB    Ai'Kii 


PASSIONATELY  YEARNING  FOR  LOVE 


She  flee/  from  marriage 
to  the  softer  shoulder  of 
romance . . . 

Here  are  the  heart  throbs  of  a  hundred 
pictures,  fused  into  one  superb  emotional 
triumph  ...  a  woman's  love-life  laid  bare, 
from  ecstatic  happiness  to  reckless  aban- 
don; from  joys  of  wifehood,  motherhood, 
to  depths  of  man-made  despair;  poignant 
with  passion;  powerful  with  an  appeal  that 
has  moved  millions  to  tears;  Ann  Harding, 
living  the  essence  of  every  woman's  life,  in 
magnificent  performance  of  a  marvel- 
ous role. . .  An  unforgettable  picture! 


Tears,  Thrills  and  Heart  Throbs  woven  into  one 
of  the  most  glorious  screen  romances  of  all  time 


F0X 


ASK  YOUR  FAVORITE  THEATRE  WHEN    IT  WILL   BE  SHOWN 


FRANK      LLOYD 
PRODUCTION 

ANN  HARDING 

in  the  NEW 

EAST 
LYNNE 

with 

CLIVE     BROOK 
CONRAD    NAGEL 

CECILIA     LOFTUS 
BERYL     MERCER 


The  Audience   Speaks   Its   Mind 

[  CONTINUED  I'ROM  PAGE  6  | 


Greta  Garho  comes  through  with  a  superb 
performance  in  "Inspiration.  '  It  is  a  rendi- 
tion which  lacks  the  dramatic  power  of  Anna 
Christie  and  has  not  the  poignant  beauty  of 
Rita  CavaUini,  but  withal,  Greta  was  never 
more  perfect,  never  conceived  her  part  so  hu- 
manly and  tenderly,  and  never  carried  her  work. 
to  such  a  high  point  of  histrionic  perfection. 
Richard  E.  Passmore, 

Media,  Penna. 

I  was  disappointed  after  seeing  Miss  Garbo 
in  "  Inspiration.  "  She  seems  somehow  to  have 
lost  her  old  enthusiasm  and  does  her  part  me- 
chanically without  much  real  emotion. 

M.  L.  Gimuch, 
Pittsfield,  Mass. 

Garbo  reminds  me  of  dawn — cold  and  aloof. 
Dietrich  is  a  flaming  sunset. 

Mark  Lou  Brown-, 
Allentown,  Penna. 

Gaynor  and  Farrell 

In  "The  Man  Who  Came  Back"  Janet  had 
the  greatest  role  since  "7th  Heaven,''  and  she 
played  it  right  up  to  the  hilt. 

Incidentally,  Charles  Farrell  acted  better 
than  he  has  in  any  recent  picture.  The  whole 
picture  was  beautiful,  tender,  great! 

F.  Merrick, 
Denver,  Colo. 

There  is  a  general  feeling  that  Janet  Gaynor 
and  Charlie  Farrell  couldn't  handle  their  parts 
in  "The  Man  Who  Came  Back.  "  Lighter  type 
of  entertainment  is  their  meat. 

Ruby  E.  Lorentzen, 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Random  Opinions 

Now  that  we  have  an  honest-to-goodness 
vocal  artist  like  Tibbett,  we  need  not  fear  for 
the  future  of  singing  pictures. 

Fred  Stephens, 
Quapaw,  Okla. 

Joan  Crawford  should  remember  that  lifting 
her  brows  won't  make  hd  a  dramatic  actress. 
Mar. via  La  Verxe, 
Oakland,  Calif. 

The  silver-throated   Grace   Moore  is   truly 
lovely.    Her  voice  by  far  surpasses  every  other 
singing  voice  we  have  heard  via  the  talkies. 
Mrs.  Ray  M.  Armstrong, 
Berkeley,  Calif. 

Why  place  an  actor  like  Conrad  Xagel  in  a 
picture  like  "Free  Love"? 

Oi.lie  M  \r.  Birch, 

Dallas,  Texas 

Evelyn  Laye  is  lovely — but  for  goodness 
sake,  give  her  a  decent  picture.  "One  Heaven- 
ly Night"  was  terrible. 

Marion  Foster, 
Portsmouth,  Va. 

Buddy  Rogers  as  a  man — as  a  lover!  Don't 
make  me  laugh.  He  is  a  wonderful  tailor's 
dummy. 

Mrs.  L.  C.  Hall, 
Maiden,  Mass. 

Mary  Pickford  should  stop  being  "synthetic" 
and  give  us  the  "  real  "  Mary  again. 

M  \i;y  Gh  v<  i:  Street, 
Oakland,  Calif. 

Paramount  should  let  the  Chatterton-Brook 
team  continue.  These  two  stars  were  at  their 
best  when  playing  together. 

Bitty  Down, 
Springfield,  Mass. 

10 


W^ant  to 
JLook  i_w 


>velvi 


T 


oLearn  jrom   oLoretia 


Whenever  we  see  a  picture  of  Mrs. 
Young's  daughter,  Loretta,  even  we 
find  it  hard  to  think  about  clothes. 
She's  a  good-looking  gal — no  foolin'. 
Now  that  the  heartbeat  is  down  to  nor- 
mal, let's  look  at  the  dress. 

First,  it's  white  satin — or  rather  egg- 
shell— an  off  shade  of  white.  Good. 
Second,  its  fur  is  fox.     Also  good. 

It's  simple.  Like  an  old  Greek  cos- 
tume, it's  long  and  flowy.  The  flowers 
are  a  feminine  touch. 

The  dress  is  low  in  the  back.  That's 
whv  the  little  jacket  is  worn — to  cover 
her  lovely  back. 

A  wonderful  girl.  A  slick  dress.  Too 
bad  it  (the  dress)  is  spoiled  by  being  too 
long.  It  should  miss  the  floor.  Leave 
the  floor  sweeping  to  those  who  get 
paid  for  it,  Loretta! 


Chatterton's  only  rival  on  the  silver  sheet  is 
La  Swanson,  and  I  consider  them  the  only  two 
magnificent  stars  of  today. 

C. Jack  Thornton, 
Queensland,  Australia 

Here's  hoping  there  will  be  fewer  Lessons  in 
Crime  and  many  more  pictures  like  "Just 
Imagine." 

Jam;  A.  Wooden, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

Mickey  Mouse  Cartoons  are  different  and 
silly  enough  to  provoke  laughter,  but  I  wish 
they  knew  where  comedy  left  off  and  vulgarity 
began. 

:  "  Fan," 
Wichita,  Kans. 

Richard  Dix  in  "Cimarron"  made   Yancey 
Cravat  come  to  life.     Bushels  of  bouquets  to 
Richard,  and  what  a  picture!    I  saw  it  twice. 
Anna  Miller, 
Xew  York  City,  X.  Y. 

My  highest  praise  goes  to  Charles  Bickford 
when  he  plays  a  miner  or  a  sailor,  but  as  a  lover 
he's  impossible.  He  spoiled  "The  Passion 
Flower. " 

Mrs.  Annie  Erdman, 
San  Luis  Obispo,  Calif. 

Give  us  a  thrill  by  casting  Gary  Cooper  in  a 
"white  collar"  part  for  a  change.  As  a  rich 
man-about-town  with  lots  of  love-making  he 
would  be  a  knockout. 

Doris  H.  Cozzens, 
Scarsdale,  X.  Y. 

Why  feed  the  American  Public  such  tripe  as 
Clara  Bow  in  "  Xo  Limit "?    I'm  not  the  snob- 
bish intelligentsia,  but  these  sort  of  pictures 
will  never  draw  us  away  from  our  bridge  tables. 
Ann  Bishop  Roberts, 
Stamford,  Conn. 

I  don't  think  Marlene  needs  Greta,  or  any- 
one else,  as  a  model.  She  has  qualities  that 
Garbo  never  knew  existed. 

H.  A., 
Ogden,  Utah 

Why  cast  the  immature  Bob  Montgomery 
opposite  Garbo  in  "Inspiration"?  He  lacked 
charm  and  took  himself  far  too  seriously,  which 
made  Garbo's  great  love  for  him  a  little  ridicu- 
lous and  the  whole  story  unconvincing. 

Bernice  Andre, 
Louisville,  Ky. 

Heaven  deliver  us  from  the  sound  of  weeping 
in  the  talkies. 

John  Lehto, 
San  Pedro.  Calif. 

Chevalier 

I  always  feel  I've  been  somewhere  and  had  a 
grand  good  time  whenever  I  see  and  hear 
Maurice  Chevalier  on  the  screen — whether  I 
like  the  story  or  not.  He  is  bubbling  over 
with  life,  and  the  love  of  life. 

Ethel  E.  Smalley, 

Oak  Park,  111. 

Chevalier?  I'm  tired  of  that  same  old  song, 
sung  in  that  same  old  way. 

Can't  he  do  anything  about  that  overhang- 
ing under  lip? 

D.  Parks, 
Pasadena,  Calif. 
[  please  turn  to  page  1 14  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  roa  Aran..  I!    1 


1  i 


LEWIS    STONE 

IRENE  RICH 
LEON  JANNEY 
JOHN    HALLIDAY 

MICKEY  BENNETT 

And  a  lot  of  great  kiddies 

• 

From  the  story  "Old  Fathers  and 
Young  Sons",  by  Booth  Tarkington. 
BbaMad  by  WILLIAM  BEAl  DINE 

~Viltiphnne"  is  the  registered  trademark 
of  The  t'ilafihune  Corporation. 


'I  et*8  all  go  to 

the  movies." 


-;  -     H 


1     Itimlli     I  Hi  l.imfHin    iimniii, 

ill  urn  a  for  Ihv  ulinli'  family 

from  sonny  to  urantlpa. 


i  athi 


sosn 


I 


LLWls   S   1  O.N£ 


F  vou're  the  kind  of  father  who  ««it  more  fun  than  the  kids  did 
out  of  the  electric  train  you  bought  them  for  Christmas     .     .     . 

If  you're  the  kind  of  mother  who  believes  that  boys  will  be  1m>vs  .  .  . 

irene  rich  If   vou're    the    kind    of  sister   who   ha9   a    demon 

kid  brother  .  .  . 

If  you're   the    kind    of  brother   who   still    remem- 
bers when  you  were  a  kid  .  .  . 

Beg,  borraic.  or  steal  all  tin'  kills  yon  can  get  holil 
of  and  take  them  to  t€€  this  picture.  You'll  have  the 
time  of  your  life! 


'I  know  what  I      "Hey. get  a  move       "When   you  all 
wanna  see."  on,  Fatty!"  a-goin'  so  fast?"' 


Te're  all  gonna  see 
Father's  Son!" 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  ScVITAPHONE  PICTURE 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


EAST  IS  WEST— Universal. — Lupe  Vele*  ptaya 
.l/i»<  Toy.    Edward  c;.  Robinson  xsChtnalammCharlie. 
Th<-\  should  have  made  the  old  play  convincing,  but 
thing  went  wrong.      (Dec.) 

ESCAPE— Associated  Radio  Pictures.— An  Eng- 
lish talkie  about  an  escaped  prisoner.  Far  too 
talkie.     {Jan.) 

EX-FLAME— Liberty  Productions. — Your  old 
friend  "E;i>t  Lynne"  dressed  up  in  modern  clothes 
and  played  by  Norman  Kerry  and  Marian  Nixon. 
Old-fashioned  and  unconvincing.     (Jan.) 

EXTRAVAGANCE— Tiffany  Productions.— Fash- 
ions and  passions  blended  in  a  display  that  will  make 
the  audience  gasp.     Don't  take  Junior.     (Dec.) 

EYES  OF  THE  WORLD— United  Artists—  This 
Harold  Bell  Wright  standby,  in  its  talkie  dress,  is 
cumbersome  movie  stuff.     (Oct.) 

FAIR  WARNING— Fox.— George  O'Brien  as  the 
honest  Western  lad  who  slays  the  wicked  villain  and 
wins  the  girl.      (Jan.) 

FAST  AND  LOOSE— Paramount.— A  pleasant 
little  comedy  about  the  rich  girl  who  falls  in  love  with 
the  working  man.  Miriam  Hopkins  debuts  success- 
fully as  the  girl.    (Feb.) 

•  FATHER'S  SON— First  National.— A  simple 
story,  fine  and  human.  Lewis  Stone,  Irene 
Rich,  Leon  Jannev.  Here  are  actors — and  a  notable 
film.     (Dec.) 


•     FEET    FIRST— Paramount.— Harold 
rings  the  bell  again — with  both  feet. 
shriek  and  squeal.     (Dec.) 


Llovd 
You'll 


FIFTY  MILLION   FRENCHMEN— Warners.— 

American  tourists  in  Paris.  Moves  so  fast  it  leaves 
you  weak.  One  good  gag  after  another.  Don't 
miss  it.      (March.) 

FIGHTING  CARAVANS— Paramount.— Your 
old  friend,  "The  Covered  Wagon,"  gone  talkie  just  a 
bit  late.  The  scenes  are  beautiful  and  Ernest  Tor- 
rence  and  Tully  Marshall  are  on  hand  in  their  original 
r61es.    (Feb.) 

FIGHTING  THRU  —  Tiffany  Productions.  — 
Worth  the  price  of  admission.  Ken  Maynard  and 
his  horse  "Tarzan"  do  some  fine  work  and  the 
beautiful  Jeanctte  Loff  helps  considerably.    (March.) 

FLAME  OF  LOVE,  THE— British  International. 
— Anna  May  Wong  as  a  Chinese  vamp  in  Russia. 
But  it  really  matters  very  little.      (Jau.) 

FLIRTING  WIDOW,  THE— First  National.— 
Dorothy  Mackaill  scores  a  bulls-eye  in  this  clever 
comedy,  in  a  part  that  suits  her  to  a  couple  of  T's. 
(Oct.) 

FOLLOW  THE  LEADER— Paramount.— Ed 
Wynn's  a  howl  in  this  dandy  transcription  of  his  stage 
hit,  "Manhattan  Mary."  A  musical  comedy,  but 
it's  a  honey.     (Dec.) 

FOR  THE  LOVE  O'  LIL— Columbia— Naughty 
in  a  very  nice  way,  this  story  of  married  life  manages 
to  be  reasonably  entertaining.  Jack  Mulhall,  Sally 
Starr,  Elliott  Nugent  and  Margaret  Livingston  plav 
it.     (Feb.) 

FOUND — Ralph  P.  King  Productions. — Australia 
sponsored  this  travel  film.  It's  excellent,  except  for  a 
goofy  ending.     (Dec.) 


FREE  LOVE— Universal.— Conrad  Nagel  and 
Genevieve  Tobin  demonstrate  what  to  do  when  a 
woman  takes  up  psycho-analysis.  An  amusing  com- 
edy.    (Feb.) 

•  GANG  BUSTER,  THE  —  Paramount.  — 
Comedy-melodrama  with  Jack  Oakie  at  his 
best.  William  (stage)  Boyd  menaces  as  the  gan? 
leader  and  Jean  Arthur  is  the  pretty  heroine.   (March.) 

•  GENTLEMAN'S  FATE  —  M-G-M.  —  This 
tense  drama  brings  us  Jack  Gilbert  with  all 
his  old  appeal.  The  beautiful  Leila  Hyams  and  Anita 
Page  support  him  and  Louis  Wolheim  gives  a 
flawless   performance.     (March.) 

GOING  WILD  —  First  National.  —  Remember 
Doug  MacLean  in  "Going  Up"?  This  is  a  revival, 
with  Joe  E.  Brown  as  the  funny  fellow  who  is  mis- 
taken for  an  aviator.  Some  laughs  and  some  dull 
spots.     ( Nov.) 

GOLDEN  DAWN— Warners.— Vivienne  Segal  in 
all-Technicolor  operetta.     Dull.     (Oct.) 

GORILLA,  THE— First  National.— A  goodish 
enough  thriller — but  it's  been  dolefully  slowed  down 
for  the  screen.  Frisco,  Broadway  funnyman,  is  less 
funny  than  usual.     (Nov.) 

•  GREAT  MEADOW,  THE— M-G-M— A  stir- 
ring and  exciting  yarn  of  pioneering,  with 
Eleanor  Boardman  a  brilliant  member  of  the  distin- 
guished cast.    (Feb.) 

•  HALF  SHOT  AT  SUNRISE— Radio  Pictures. 
—Who  said  "depression"?  Go  A  W  O  L  with 
Wheeler  and  Woolsey  in  Paris.  The  most  rollicking 
nonsense  ever  devised.     (Nov.) 

HATE  SHIP,  THE— British  International.— A 
fairly  gripping  old-school  melodrama — thrills  and 
mystery  on  board  a  yacht.    (Feb.) 

HEADIN'  NORTH— Tiffany  Productions.— Bob 
Steele  with  his  horse,  cowboy  suit  and  a  coupla  guns. 
A  sizzling  hot  Western.      (Jan.) 

HEADS  UP— Paramount.— Charles  (Ex-Buddy) 
Rogers  in  a  pleasant  little  musical  comedy  about  a 
dashing  coast  guardsman.  Not  historic— except  that 
Buddy  smokes  his  first  cigarette!     (Dec.) 

HELL'S  ISLAND— Columbia.— The  Jack  Holt- 
Ralph  Graves  team  turns  out  a  slam-bang  picture  of 
love,  hate  and  friendship  in  the  Foreign  Legion. 
(Oct.) 

•  HER  MAN— Pathe.— "He  was  her  man.  but 
he  done  her  wrong" — Frankie  and  her  erring 
Johnnie  further  immortalized  on  celluloid  in  the  in- 
teresting persons  of  Helen  Twelvetrees  and  Phillips 
Holmes.     (Nov.) 


HER  WEDDING   NIGHT- 

the   Bow,  en  negligie  in  Paris, 
friends.     Light,  but  quite  cute. 


•Paramou  nt. — Clara, 
Bedrooms  and  boy 
(Dec.) 


HOOK,  LINE  AND  SINKER— Radio  Pictures  — 
That's  how  you'll  go  for  this  latest  gem  of  Wheeler- 
Woolsey  nonsense.  The  monkey  business  is  perpe- 
trated in  gangland.    (Feb.) 

HOT  HEIRESS,  THE— First  National.— A  mil- 
lionaire's daughter  on  the  make  for  a  steel  riveter, 
poor  but  virile.  Loads  of  fun.  Ben  Lyon's  the  gent. 
and  what  a  cutie  is  Ona  Munson!    (Dec.) 


HOW  HE  LIED  TO  HER  HUSBAND—  British 
International. — George  Bernard  Shaw  surrenders  to 
the  talkies.  Amusing,  if  you  like  the  Sliaw  wit. 
(March.) 

•  ILLICIT — Warners. — Another  triumph  for 
Barbara  Stanwyck,  who  plays  a  modern 
maiden  who  wants  love  without  marriage.  A  dar- 
ing film,  strong  and  moving.      (Jan.) 

INSPIRATION— M-G-M.— Garbo  was  never 
lovelier  than  in  this  very  modern  story  of  the  indiscreet 
woman  and  the  price  she  pays.  Lewis  Stone,  Robert 
Montgomery  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  lend  Greta 
strong  support.     (Ftb.) 

JAZZ  CINDERELLA,  THE— Chesterfield—  Poor 
girl  captures  rich  boy.  Myma  Loy  and  Jason  Ro- 
bards  do  as  well  as  they  can,  which  isn't  much.   (Dec.) 

JAWS  OF  HELL— Sono  Art-World  Wide.— De- 
picts the  old  poem  "The  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade" 
and  makes  the  charge  a  pretty  thrilling  business.  The 
romantic  story's  a  bit  weak.     (March.) 

•  JUST  IMAGINE— Fox.— Life  in  1980!  Mad 
buffoonery,  funny,  ironic  and  different.  El 
Brendel  heads  the  dandv  cast.  Top  entertainment. 
(Dec.) 

JUST  LIKE  HEAVEN— Tiffany  Productions.— A 
simple  little  romance  between  a  toe  dancer  and  a 
balloon  peddler.  Fifteen-year-old  Anita  Louise  is  the 
heroine.    (Feb.) 

KATHLEEN  MAVOURNEEN— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Sally  O'Neil  is  the  colleen.  Save  your  money. 
(Oct.) 

•     KISMET — First    National. — Distinguished 
Otis  Skinner  makes  his  talkie  bow.    Beautiful 
fantasy,  but  fantasy.     (Dec.) 

•  LADY'S  MORALS,  A— M-G-M.— Introduc- 
ing Grace  Moore,  young  ana  beautiful  Metro- 
politan Opera  prima  donna.  A  lovely  voice  and  a 
charming  story,  based  on  the  life  of  Jenny  Lind. 
Reginald  Denny  is  fine  opposite  the  star.     (Dec.) 

LADY  SURRENDERS,  A— Universal.— Marital 
woes,  subtly  and  delightfully  described  by  Conrad 
Nagel,  Genevieve  Tobin,  Rose  Hobart  and  Basil 
Rathbone.    A  charming  picture.     (Dec.) 

LADY  WHO  DARED,  THE— First  National  — 
Billie  Dove  in  an  aged  and  faltering  story  about  a  dip- 
lomat's wife  who  gets  in  a  mess  with  blackmailers. 
(Oct.) 

LAND  OF  MISSING  MEN,  THE— Tiffany 
Productions. — A  Bob  Steele  Western.  Hard  ridin', 
and  that's  all  there  is  to  it.     (Jan.) 

LASH.  THE — First  National. — (Reviewed  under 
the  title  "Adios").  Richard  Barthelmess  as  an  early 
California  Robin  Hood.  Colorful  and  charming. 
You'll  like  it.     (Dec.) 

LAST  OF  THE  LONE  WOLF— Columbia.— The 
perennial  Lone  Wolf  in  the  person  of  ageless  Bert 
Lytell.  After  much  rushing  about,  Bert  preserves  the 
(Itieen's  fair  name!  It  all  happens  in  mythical 
Saxonia.     (Jan.) 

[  PLEASE  TCRX  TO  PACE  14  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list. 

Page 

Among  the  Married — M-G-M 51 

Behind  Office  Doors — Radio  Pictures. .   50 

Body  and  Soul — Fox 51 

By  Rocket  to  the  Moon— UFA 134 

Charlie  Chan  Carries  On — Fox 134 

Children  of  Dreams — Warners 51 

Connecticut  Yankee,  A — Fox 48 

Conquering  Horde,  The — Paramount.  .  133 

Cracked  Nuts — Radio  Pictures 133 

Doctors'  Wives — Fox  133 

Don't  Bet  on  Women — Fox 50 

Drums  of  Jeopardy,  The — Tiffany  Pro- 
ductions   135 


Page 

East  Lynne — Fox 49 

Finn  and  Hattie — Paramount 51 

Fires  of  Youth — Universal 50 

Girl  from  the  Reeperbahn,  The — Sonor 

Prod 133 

Girls  Demand  Excitement — Fox 133 

Hell    Bound  —  Cruze-Tiffany    Produc- 
tions   133 

Hole  in  the  Wall,  The— Paramount.  .  .  .134 

It  Pays  to  Advertise — Paramount 51 

June  Moon — Paramount 50 

Kept  Husbands — Radio  Pictures 50 

Kiki— United  Artists 48 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 96 


Page 
Lady  Refuses,  The — Radio  Pictures.  .    134 

Little  Cafe,  The — Paramount 134 

Lonely  Wives — Pathe 49 

LoveHabit.The — Britishlnternational  134 
Midnight    Special,    The  —  Chesterfield 

Production 135 

Mother's  Millions — Liberty  Productions  49 

Not  Exactly  Gentlemen — Fox 134 

Parlor,  Bedroom  and  Bath— M-G-M  .  .  48 
Ridin'  Fool,  The — Tiffany  Productionsl34 
Single  Sin,  The — Tiffany  Productions.  .  133 

Stolen  Heaven — Paramount 51 

3  Girls  Lost— Fox 50 


/  > 


PHOTOP]    W     M  U.\/IM      I  UK    Al'KIl  ,     1         1 


New  discovery!    Pepsodent   Mouth  Wash 

3  to  1 1   times  more  powerful  than  other  leading 

antiseptics!!  Checks  bad  breath  far  longer!!! 


THIS  phenomenal  discovery  opens 
a  new  era  in  the  fight  against 
germs  —  also  the  social  evil  of  bad 
breath." 

That  is  the  emphatic  statement  of  the 
eminent  university  professor  whose  dis- 
covery led  to  Pepsodent  Antiseptic 
Mouth  Wash.  His  opinion  is  confirmed 
by  two  of  America's  leading  bacterio- 
logical laboratories,  who  have  made  ex- 
tensive tests.  Likewise,  by  independent 
scientists  who  have  examined  critically 
science's  latest  contribution. 

From  Pepsodent  laboratories 

This  remarkable  discovery  is  a  new  and 
powerful  weapon  in  fighting  germs.  It 
combats,  immediately,  the  social  evil  of 
bad  breath. 

The  formula  comes  from  the  Pepsodent 
tooth  paste  laboratories,  whose  contribu- 
tion to  dental  hygiene  has  won  high 
recognition.  Under  the  label  of  Pepso- 
dent Antiseptic  Mouth  Wash  it  is  being 
widely  distributed  in  the  public  interest. 

Cleanses— purifies  the  mouth 

The  active  agent  used  in  Pepsodent 
Mouth  Wash,  as  determined  by  standard 
tests,  is  many  times  more  potent  than 


pure  carbolic  acid,  for  all  time  the  standard 
germicide.  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  is  non- 
poisonous,  safe  and  soothing. 

Immediately  after  you  use  it,  95%  of  the 
germs  in  the  mouth  are  destroyed.  Their  num- 
ber ir  still  reduced  70%  at  the  end  of  two  hours' 
time — that  is  far  longer  acting  than  many  other 
leading  mouth  washes. 

"We  find,"  states  one  laboratory,  "Pepsodent 
Mouth  Wash  kills  the  stubborn  pus-producing 
germs  (M.  Aureus)  in  10  seconds — faster  than 
is  even  claimed  for  other  leading  mouth  washes." 
Tests  prove  that  it  kills  in  10  seconds  germs 
associated  with  pneumonia,  dipththeria,  typhoid 
fever,  and  many  others. 

Checks  bad  breath 

With  this  revolutionary  discovery  comes 
a  social  safeguard:  remarkable  protection 
against  offensive  breath.  A  laboratory 
director  states:  "Tests  prove  conclusively 
that  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  overcomes 
bad  breath  1  to  2  hours  longer  than  many 
other  leading  antiseptic  mouth  washes." 

At  your  druggist's— today 

Your  druggist  has  just  received  this  new 
discovery.  Go  today  and  get  a  bottle. 
Secure  this  added  protection  plus  the 
greater  assurance  of  a  pure,  sweet  breath. 


Consult  your 
Dentist,  Physician 

In  the  opinion  of  some  au- 
thorities, most  breath  odors 
come  from  such  minor  causes 
£S  neglected,  unclean  mouth, 
tooth  decay,  slight  infections 
of  nose  and  throat,  excessive 
smoking.  If,  after  using 
Tcpsodent  Mouth  Wash,  bad 
breath  persists  in  returning, 
seek  medical  and  dental  advice 
to  remove  the  cause. 


•Most  people  add  water  before 
using  a  mouth  wash.  Hrncc, 
dilutions  of  Pepsodent  Mouth 
Wash  8re  compared  with  other 
ant-septics  tested  either  at  full 
strength  or  in  the  dilution 
recommended  by  the  manu- 
facturer. It  goes  many  times 
as  for  as  mouth  washes  which 
must  be  used  FULL 
STRENGTH   to  be  effective. 

COSTS  MUCH  LESS 


Pepsodent   Antiseptic   Mouth  Wash 


A  revo 


o  u  u  c  ii  i     niuidcpiit     inuuLii      tt  ad 

lutionary  mouth  wash  just  discovered  by  the  Pepsodent  tooth  paste  laboratories 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 


•    LAUGHTER— Paramount.— Nancy  Carroll 
and  Fredric  March  in  love — with  a  millionaire 

id  in  the  background.  A  bewitching  picture-. 
See  it.    (.Dec.) 

LEATHER  NECKING— Radio  Pictures.— An- 
Other  musical  romance,  but  you'll  roll  with  laughter 
while  a  rare  cast  of  funsters  do  their  stuff.    (Oct.) 

L'ENIGMATIQUE  MONSIEUR  PARKES  — 
Paramount.  —  The  French  version  of  "Slightly 
Scarlet,"  with  M.  Adolphc  Menjou  and  Mile.  Claud- 
etto  Colbert  in  the  leads.  Made  for  the  French,  but 
interesting  to  Americans,  too.     (Nov.) 

LIFE  OF  THE  PARTY.  THE— Warners  — 
Winnie  Ljghtner  roughhouses  in  high  class  Techni- 
color and  Havana's  fast  set.    What  laughs  I    (Jan.) 

•     LIGHTNIN'— Fox.— Don't  miss  this,  for  it's 
Will  Rogers  at  his  best.     A  real  story  about 
the    Nevada   divorce    mill,   a   fine   cast,   brilliant   di- 
m.       And    the    choicest     Rogers    observations. 
What  more  could  you  ask?     (Jan.) 

•  LILIOM — Fox. — A  fine  picture  marks  the 
n  debut  of  a  striking  young  emotional 
actress,  Rose  Hobart.  Charles  Farrell  is  an  engaging 
Liliom,  but  he  never  seems  quite  at  home  without 
his  Janet.     (Nov.) 

LION  AND  THE  LAMB,  THE— Columbia.— A 
ter  story  supposed  to  be  good  clean  fun.     It's 
clean,  anyway.     Miriam  Seegar.  Carmel  Myers  and 
Walter  Byron  are  the  principals.      (Jan.) 

LITTLE  CAESAR— First  National.— Don't  decide 
you're  fed  up  on  underworld  movies  before  you've 
Been  this  one.  It's  worth  it.  thanks  to  brilliant  work 
by  Edward  G.  Robinson  and  Doug,  Jr.     (Dec.) 

LONESOME  TRAIL,  THE— Syndicate  Pictures. 
— Plenty  of  action  in  this  Western.  Charles  Delaney 
i-  tin-  hero  and  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  the  rancher's 
daughter.    Kids  will  love  it.    (Nov.) 

LOOSE  ENDS— British  International.  —  The 
British  have  a  go  at  a  problem  drama.  Weak  and 
wordy.     (Jan.) 

LOTTERY  BRIDE,  THE— United  Artists.— The 
thrill  of  this  one  is  Jeanette  MacDonald,  who  goes  in 
for  histrionics  in  a  big  way.  And  the  music  is  grand. 
(Oct.) 

LOVE  IN  THE  RING— Terra  Productions— Max 
Schmeling'a  made-in-Germany  movie,  before  he  won 
the  title.    As  an  actor,  he's  a  good  fighter.     (Oct.) 

LOVE  IN  THE  ROUGH— M-G-M.—  Golf,  ro- 
mance, slap-stick  and  music.  You'll  like  it  if  you 
don't  take  it  too  seriously.    (Oct.) 

LOVE  KISS,  THE— Celebrity  Productions.— A 
nice  little  college  comedy  with  plenty  of  romance 
and  laughter.      (March.) 

LOVE  RACKET,  THE— First  National.— The  de- 
ng  spectacle  of  pretty  Dorothy  Mackaill  buried 
alive  under  a  heavy  dramatic  role.     (Oct.) 

LOVE  TRADER,  THE— Tiffany  Productions.— 
I.eatrice  Joy,  blonde  and  beautiful,  in  a  seductive 
Hawaiian  locale.     See  it  for  Lcatrice.     (Dec.) 

•  MADAM  SATAN— M-G-M— Another  lavish 
DeMille  spectacle.  A  dull  wife  acquires  a  French 
accent  and  risaui  clothes  to  win  back  her  husband. 
You'll  enjoy  Kay  Johnson  and  Reginald  Denny.  (Oct.) 

\I  \  DONNA  OF  THE  STREETS— Columbia- 
Evelyn  Brent  triumphs  over  the  old  yarn  about  the 
regeneration  of  a  lady  crook.    (Feb.) 

MAN  FROM  CHICAGO.  THE— Elstree  Pro- 
ductions.— The  British  go  hay-wire  on  this  story  of 
Chicago  gangsters  and  their  ladies.  Skip  this  one. 
(March.) 

MAN  TO  MAN — Warners. — (Reviewed  under  the 
title  "Barber  John's  Boy.")    A  father  returns  t 

after  eighteen  years  in  prison.  Gram  Mitchell 
and  Phillips  Holmes  are  good,  but  the  picture  isn't 
always  convincing.     (Dec.) 

M  \\  WHO  CAME  BACK,  THE— Fox— Farrell 
and  Gaynor  sink  to  the  depths,  but  love  reforms 
them.  Not  a  "7th  Heaven"  but  worth  seeing. 
(March.) 

MANY  A  SLIP — Universal. — Joan  Bennett  and 
lew  Ayres  in  a  wise-cracking  dialogue  comedy.  You 
may,  but  you  probably  won't,  like  it.     (March.) 

MAYBE  IT'S  LOVE— Warners.— Maybe  it's  love, 
but  it  isn't  college.  Gridiron  scenes  are  good.  Joan 
Bennett  and  James  Hall  provide  the  love.     (Oct.) 


|  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  12  ] 


MEN  OF  THE  NORTH— M-G-M.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Monsieur  Le  Fox.")  Just  another 
story  of  the  Northwest.     (Oct.) 

MEN  ON  CALL— Fox.— Edmund  Lowe  wastes 
his  time  and  talents  in  a  bad  story.     (March.) 

MEN  WITHOUT  LAW— Columbia.— Buck  Jones 
performs  his  Western  heroics  in  an  interesting  Span- 
ish locale  and  wins  the  beautiful  Carmelita  Geraghty. 
(Feb.) 

MILLIE  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Helen  Twelvetrees 
splendid  in  this  tense  drama.  Enough  tears  and 
chuckles  to  make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March.) 

MIN  AND  BILL — M-G-M.— A  tragic  story  stu- 
pidly gagged  up  with  slapstick.  However.  Marie 
Dressier  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  are  grand  actresses. 
(Dec.) 

MISBEHAVING  LADIES— First  National.— The 
gags  have  whiskers,  but  you'll  laugh  at  them,  and 
Louise  Fazenda  is  the  reason.     (Nov.) 


<<~^sCfs?71sO-USL^ 


He  represents  the  very 
acme  of  knowledge  and 
authority  on  style  and 
fashion. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  praise 
him.  Meet  him  on  pages 
59  to  62  of  this  issue.  He 
writes  only  for 

Photoplay 


•  MOBY  DICK  —  Warners.  —Captain  Ahab's 
vengeful  search  for  the  white  whale.  Moby  Dick, 
is  full  of  thrills.  John  Barrymore  plays  the  same  rdle 
as  in  the  silent  "Sea  Beast."    Don't  miss  this.    (Oct.) 

•     MONTE  CARLO  —  Paramount.  —  Witty,  pi- 
quant operetta  in  the  best  Lubitsch  manner. 
Jeanette  MacDonald  sings  gloriously.    (Oct.) 

•  MOROCCO — Paramount. — The  new  German 
enchantress.  Marlene  Dietrich,  will  stir  up  a 
storm.  And  Gary  Cooper  is  a  gorgeous  Foreign  Le- 
gionnaire.    Hot  stuff,  this.     (Dec.) 

MOTHERS  CRY— First  National. — A  best  seller 
turned  into  a  good  picture,  chiefly  by  the  superb  act- 
ing of  Dorothy  Peterson  as  the  mother.    (Dec.) 

MURDER — British  International. — Smart  and 
entertaining  mystery  drama  with  a  travelling  stock 
company  as  the  background  and  a  first-rate  amateur 
detective.      (Jan.) 

MY  PAST — Warners. — (Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Ex-Mistress.")  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bebe  Daniels — par- 
don! The  Ben  Lyonses  in  an  ultra-modern  love 
story  which  is  highly  entertaining.     (Feb.) 

NAUGHTY  FLIRT.  THE— First  National.— Alice 
White  as  an  heiress  pursued  by  fortune-hunters. 
Speedy  action,  peppy  dialogue,  gorgeous  clothes.  First- 
rate  entertainment.     (Oct.) 

•  NEW  MOON— M-G-M— Music  of  the  drama 
first  rate,  with  the  greatest  singing  combina- 
tion on  the  screen.  Metropolitan  Operas  Lawrence 
Tibbett  and  Grace  Moore.  Color,  drama,  beauty, 
melody  combine  in  a  real  musical  smash.     (Jan.) 

NIGHT  BIRDS  —  British  International.  — 
Mystery  melodrama,  with  much  a-do  over  a  killing. 
Not  so  bad.      (March.) 

NO  LIMIT — Paramount. — Clara  Bow  as  a  flapper, 
an  usherette  and  a  gangster's  moll,  and  wearing 
some  amazing  clothes.  You  mav  be  amused. 
(March.) 


•  OFFICE  WIFE,  THE  —  Warners.  —  Dorothy 
Mackaill  is  the  girl  who  starts  out  to  vamp  her 
employer,  played  by  Lewis  Stone,  and  ends  by  falling 
in  love  with  him.  A  sophisticated,  but  human  and 
convincing  story.     (Oct.) 

OH,  FOR  A  MAN!— Fox.— A  bright  and  merry 
ibout  a  grand  opera  star  who  loves  a  burglar. 
Reginald   Denny's  the  burglar,  and  Jeanette  Mac- 
Donald is  the  song-bird  who  falls  for  him.     (Jan.) 

ONCE  A  SINNER— Fox.— The  oldest  type  of 
triangle  story-  The  really  fine  performances  of 
Dorothy  Mackaill.  Joel  McCrea  and  John  Halliday 
make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March.) 

•  ONE  HEAVENLY  NIGHT— United  Artists.— 
(Reviewed  under  the  title  "The  Queen  of  Scan- 
dal.") A  musical,  but  a  hit.  England's  Evelyn  Laye 
is  charming  and  Texas'  John  Boles  in  grand  voice. 
(Dec.) 

ONE  MAD  KISS — Fox.— Don  Jose  Mojica.  young 
operatic  tenor,  and  Mona  Maris  afford  entertainment 
for  a  satisfactory  evening.     (Oct.) 

ONLY  SAPS  WORK— Paramount.— Mr.  Leon 
Errol  and  his  trick  legs  stagger  away  with  this  comedy 
about  lovers  and  thieves.    (Feb.) 

OTHER  MEN'S  WOMEN— Warners— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Steel  Highway ". )  Grant  Withers 
and  Mary  Astor  against  a  railroad  background. 
Fairly  entertaining.     (Dec.) 

OUTSIDE  THE  LAW— Universal— Too  much  di- 
alogue and  too  little  action.    (Oct.) 

•  OUTWARD  BOUND— Warners— A  ship  sets 
sail.  Eight  characters  are  on  board.  All  are 
dead — bound  for  the  Hereafter.  A  daring  picture, 
finely  produced  and  acted  by  Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr., 
Helen  Chandler,  Leslie  Howard.    For  adults.    (Not.) 

•  PAID— M-G-M. — (Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Within  the  Law.") — Just  wait  until  you  see 
Joan  Crawford  in  this  powerful  dramatic  role  1  The 
story  is  absorbing  and  Joan  is  simply  grand.    (Jan.) 

PAINTED  DESERT,  THE— Pathe.— A  Western 
which  you'll  like.  Bill  Boyd  is  the  virile  hero  and 
Helen  Twelvetrees  the  girl.      (March.) 

PART  TIME  WIFE— Fox— Hokum,  but  enter- 
taining. Eddie  Lowe  makes  grand  work  of  a  funny 
r61e  and  little  Tommy  "Song  o'  My  Heart"  Clifford 
is  a  natural.      (Jan.) 

PASSION  FLOWER— M-G-M.— Charles  Bick- 
ford,  Kay  Johnson  and  Kay  Francis  form  the  good 
old  eternal  triangle.  Interesting  people  in  a  good 
film.      (Jan.) 

PAY  OFF,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  a  dress-suit  crook  in  a  smart,  sophisticated 
crook  drama.     It's  a  pip.     (Nov.) 

PHANTOM  OF  THE  DESERT,  THE— Syndi- 
cate.— Jack  Perrin  in  a  true-to-type  Western.  Pienty 
of  hard  ridin'  and  fast  shootin'.    (Feb.) 

PINCHOT'S  SOUTH  SEA  CRUISE— Travel- 
Epics. — The  ex-governor  of  Pennsylvania  took  some 
interesting  pictures  of  a  South  Seas  cruise.  No  studio 
faking  in  this  one.      (Jan.) 

PLAYBOY  OF  PARIS— Paramount.— Chevalier 
deserves  better  than  this  light  farce,  which  is  amus- 
ing onlv  in  spots.  And  only  two  songs  from  Maurice! 
(Nov.) 

PRINCESS  AND  THE  PLUMBER,  THE— Fox. 

— A  young  American  millionaire  (Charles  Farrell) 
and  a  beautiful  princess  (Maureen  O'Sullivan).  You 
know  what  happens — a  harmless  little  light  comedv. 
(Feb.) 

RAIN  OR  SHINE— Columbia.— Joe  Cook's  talkie 
debut.     A  circus  story  with  a  punch  finish.     (Oct.) 

RANGO — Paramount. — A  stirring  jungle  picture 
with  a  real  story.  Magnificent.  Different.  Don't 
mistake  it  for  "just  another  wild  animal  picture." 
(Feb.) 

REACHING  FOR  THE  MOON— United  Art- 
ists.— Doug  Fairbanks  bounds  through  a  dizzy  com- 
edy as  a  go-getting  stock  broker.  Different  for  Doug 
and  very  merry.  Bebe  Daniels  is  the  big  romance. 
(Feb.) 

REDUCING— M-G-M.— Marie  Dressier  and  Polly 
Moran  cut  up  in  a  beauty  parlor.  Need  we  add  you'll 
die  laughing?     (Feb.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE    139  ] 


Photon  \\  Magaztni   i  cm  Aran.,  1     1 


■5 


■ 


Vjg 


A 

She  thought: 

"We'd  squeeze  ><>n  in  somehow — 
if  it  weren't  for  15.  o. 

Yet ,  to  be  polite, 

•  J 

She  said: 

uW* 

aktjj 

"We'd  give  you  a  lift  if  we  weren't 
so  crowded." 

Another  invitation  lost 

. . .  all  because  of  'B.  O. ' 

«/  (Body  Odor) 


PEOPLE  all  agreed  he  was  a  nice  chap. 
But  somehow  they  never  had  room  for 
him.  The  car  \v;is  already  filled.  The  bridge 
table  already  arranged.  A  dance  already 
promised. 

Then  one  day  he  discovered  his  trouble. 
"B.O." — body  odor. . . .  At  once  he  adopted  a 
simple  precaution.  Now  he's  welcome  every- 
where. He  knows  the  easy  way  to  keep  per- 
spiration odorless. 

A  risk  we  all  run 

People  won't  tell  us  when  we're  guilty.  They 
merely  avoid  us.  The  "B.O."  offender  is  the 
last  to  realize  his  fault  because  we  so  quickly 
become  used  to  an  ever-present  odor.  But 
remember,  pores  give  off  a  quart  of  odor- 
causing  waste  daily — even  in  cool  weather. 

Why  risk  offending?  Adopt  this  easy 


(Body  Odor) 

pleasant  way  to  be  safe.  Wash  and  bathe 
with  Lifebuoy.  Its  creamy,  abundant,  anti- 
septic lather  cleanses  and  purifies  pores — 
ends  every  trace  of  "B.O." 

Radiantly  fresh  complexions 

"A  wonderful  complexion  soap!"  say  thou- 
sands of  delighted  women.  Lifebuoy's  deep- 
cleansing  lather  gently  Frees  clogged  pores 
of  impurities — makes  dull  skins  bloom  with 
healthy,  radiant  beauty.  Its  pleasant,  , ■  stra- 
clean  scent — that  vanishes  as  you  rinse — 
tells  you  Lifebuoy  purifies. 

Try  Lifebuoy  Free 

If  you  don't  use  Lifebuoy  and  want  to  try  this  de- 
lightful toilet  soap,  just  send  us  your  name  and  aildress. 
By  return  mail  you  will  receive  one  full-sized  cake  of 
Lifebuoy  free.  Write  today  to  Lever  Brothers  Co., 
Dept.  174,  Cambridge,  Mass. 


It's  Neic! 


Lifebuoy 
Shaving  Cream 

New  ((oublr-<lrri"'  lather 
soothes,  lubricate*)  and 
protects  .  .  .  .ii.l-  tender 
-p<it-  th.ii  hart  when  von 
shave.  At  your  druggist's 


Lifebuoy 

HEALTH       SOAP  %/ 

stops  body  odor- 


Anita  Page  believes  in 
two  types  of  beauti- 
fiers  — dining-tableand 
dressing-table.  If  you 
want  a  clear  skin, 
sparkling  eyes,  healthy 
hair,  and  the  poise  that 
conies  only  from  a 
general  feeling  of  well- 
being,  watch  your  diet ! 


^The  Beginning  of  Beauty 


YES 
m 
11 


"ES,  she's  pretty,  but  it's  only  skin  deep,"  said  the  girl 
the  green  sports  suit  to  the  girl  in  the  leopard  jacket, 
sounded  like  an  interesting  conversation.  And, 
crowded  as  we  all  were  in  a  New  York  subway  train, 
I  was  forced  to  listen,  even  had  I  been  unwilling. 

But  I  wasn't  unwilling.  I  was  eager  to  hear  the  other  girl's 
answer.  I  could  see  her  face.  The  sort  that's  usually  described 
as  "intellectual."  Good  features — clear  eyes,  a  straight  but 
rather  long  nose,  a  large  but  well-shaped  mouth,  nice  skin.  Not 
beautiful,  not  what  we  call  pretty,  but  "interesting  looking," 
and — that's  it — "intellectual  looking."     And  very  attractive. 

So  I  wasn't  surprised  at  the  answer  she  gave.  Of  course,  I 
can't  repeat  the  conversation  exactly.  I  couldn't  very  well  take 
out  paper  and  pencil  and  make  stenographic  notes.  But  it  went 
pretty  much  like  this. 

She  said:  "Oh,  well.  Marge,  it's  all  right  to  say  Polly's  beauty 
is  only  skin  deep  and  try  to  let  it  go  at  that,  but  if  you  stop  to 
analyze  it  you'll  find  that  most  of  it  comes  from  the  inside  out." 

"What  do  you  mean?"  came  the  indignant  retort  from  the 
green-suited  girl,  whose  face  was  turned  away  from  me.  "Isn't 
Polly  pretty  because  she  has  natural  blonde  hair,  big  blue  eyes, 
good  features,  a  grand  complexion  and  a  nice,  slim  figure? 
What's  that  got  to  do  with  the  'inside'?  And,  anyhow,  where 
did  you  get  this  'inside'  information?" 

"You  forget  that  I  went  all  through  high  school  and  college 


with  Polly,"  answered  Miss  Intellectual.  "No,  we  weren't 
really  chums,"  she  hastened  to  add  as  the  other  girl  started  to 
break  in.  "  But  I  saw  her  practically  every  day  for  eight  years, 
except  during  vacations,  and  I  feel  I  know  her  fairly  well. 

"And  I'm  going  to  tell  you  something  that  will  surprise  you. 
When  Polly  was  seventeen,  during  her  third  year  in  high  school 
she  was  the  fattest,  most  unstylish,  most  unattractive  girl  in  the 
class!  You  know  how  the  other  girls  envy  her  now  that  'clean, 
blonde  look,'  as  they  call  it.  How  she  always  looks  as  though 
she  had  come  straight  from  a  bathtub  and  a  beauty  salon. 
Well,  her  hair  was  even  blonder  in  those  days,  her  skin  just  as 
fair,  and  yet  she  was  so  untidy  that  she  never  looked  as  though 
she  had  had  a  good  soap  and  water  scrubbing. 

"  A  ND  then,  suddenly,  she  began  to  be  troubled  by  a  bother- 
iisome  skin  eruption.  Not  bad  enough  to  be  disfiguring, 
but  noticeable  enough  so  that  during  vacation  her  mother  sent 
her  to  a  famous  skin  specialist.  And  when  Polly  came  back  to 
school  as  a  senior,  not  only  had  her  face  cleared  up  almost 
entirely,  but  she  was  a  different  girl. 

"She  had  lost  some  of  that  excess  weight,  and  she  kept  right 
on  'slimming  out'  gradually.  No  more  ice  cream  sodas  after 
last  class.  Mighty  few  fudge  parties.  But  she  ate  her  vege- 
tables, which  she  had  always  side-tracked,  like  a  well-trained 
infant.  '  [  please  turn  to  page  104  j 


Friendly  Advice  on  Girls'  Problems 

WANT  to  be  slim?  Or,  at  least,  slimmer?  Want  to  stop  worrying  about  blackheads?  Want 
to  improve  your  complexion  generally? 
A  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope  will  bring  you  my  booklet  of  normalizing  exercises  and 
reducing  menus.  Or  my  complexion  leaflet,  giving  general  advice  on  the  care  of  the  skin  and 
specific  treatment  for  blackheads  and  acne.  Or  you  can  have  both,  simply  by  asking  for  them. 
But  don't  forget  to  enclose  the  envelope  and  be  sure  to  ddress  me  at  PHOTOPLAY,  221 
West  57th  Street,  New  York  City.  If  you  want  other  personal  advice — about  your  hair,  the 
correct  colors  for  your  type,  the  right  shades  in  cosmetics — I'll  be  glad  to  mail  back  a  personal 
letter  of  advice  in  the  envelope  you  send  me. 

CAROLYN    VAN    WYCK 


16 


Photoplay  Maoazxni  ten  April,  i     1 


l7 


\       ■     ■     I      ■      ■   M  \KI  -II' 
(  .olor    II.m  mon  v 

/'/!)(,/■  OX,  in  ,i  :  ■ 
'•hnuoUr   ; 

Pktltfrtf  kt :  ;i  prtjti  :■■.*  rum 
vttd. 

1 

the  fa. 

cmiihi  vnh  make 

u|>  in  lilcnj 

with  her  own  individua 

oringi.  The  effect  is  like  an  .. 

•  other  make-up  in  the 
is  created  in  thi*  ama/ing  way. 
you  may  have  the  secret. 


T 


Make-up  / 

Color  Harmon) 

THE   MAGIC  BEAUTIFIER  ...  Created  to  Living  Screen  Star  Types  by 

Max  Factor,  Hollywood's  Make-up  Genius  .  .  .  NOW   RELEASED  TO  YOU 

No  other  cosmetics  in  the  world  created  in  this  amazing  way  .  .  .  and  no  other  make-up 

will  bringyou  such  amazing  beauty.  Mail  coupon  for  priceless  beauty  gift. 


I.I  L.I  LEE,  Fir  it  Xatitnal  star,  and 
M.ix  Ftflir,  Hollywood's  Make-Up 
Genius,  using  eseshado-ji  to  emphasize  the 
depth  and  lustre  of  her  e\es. 


WHAT  color  face  powder5  What  color  rouge?  What  color  lip- 
stick1 And  what  color  eye-shadow.  .  .  and  how  will  they  look 
together  in  the  make-up  ensemble?  Will  they  clash  in  color  or  will 
they  harmonize5  Will  they  blend  with  my  complexion  colorings  or 
w  ill  they  not?  \\  ill  they  be  ol  such  evquisite  fineness  and  softness  as 
to  become  a  very  part  of  skin  tone  and  texture?  Will  they  detract 
Irom  my  natural  beauty  or  will  they  add  the  glamour  and  allure  of 
a  new  charm5  Why  trust  such  questions  so  important  to  bcautv  to 
chance  or  guess5  .  .  .  when  make-up  can  really 
be  a  magic  bcautitier. 

Within  your  reach  .  .  .  just  for  the  asking 
.  .  .  you  may  have  the  personal  advice  of  Max 
Factor,  Hollywood's  Genius  ot  Make-Up,  creator 
ol  cosmetics  for  the  screen  stars  and  studios. 

Just  as  though  you  were  a  screen  star  .  .  . 
Max  Factor  will  chart  your  color  harmonv  in 
make-up  .  .  .  create  for  you  an  ensemble  in  pow- 
der, rouge,  lipstick,  eyeshadow  and  the  dailv  re- 
quisites of  Society  Make-l'p  which  will  bring 
out  the  hidden  tascination  of  your  natural  beauty 


LI  L.I  LI 

tcrttn  or  strttt  Ut\ir,  I 

greater  satisfaction  in  Max  > 

Make-Up. 

BERNICE  CL.IIRE, 

-if  t'jJ.iy  is   an   art,  and 
Itr 
harmony  proves  that  you  arc  a 
'  the  art. 


.  .  .  and  emphasize  the  alluring  magnetism  of  your  personality. 
Each  cosmetic  produced  by  Max  Factor  .  .  each  glorious  color 
tone  ...  is  like  the  masterpiece  of  an  artist.  Created  to  some  living 
screen  star  tvpc  ol  unrivaled  beautv,  you  can  well  imagine  the  magic 
power  it  holds.  And  the  complete  maKC-up  ensemble  is  perfect  in 
color  harmony  balance  .  .  for  Max  Factor's  discovery  of  cosmetic 
color  harmony  revolutionized  make-up  in  Hollywood. 

So  whatever  your  complexion  colorings,  whatever  your  variation 
ot  tvpc  in  blonde,  brunette,  redhead  or  brownctte 
.  .  .  discover  the  one  way  to  double  your  bcautv, 
discover  Hollywood's  make-up  secret. 

And  remember  that  no  other  make-up  will 
bring  vou  such  amazing  bcautv  ...  for  only  Max- 
Factor's  is  used  exclusively  in  all  the  big  motion 
picture  studios,  by  Technicolor,  and  by  Holly- 
wood's stars.  Mail  the  coupon  immediately. 


MAX  FACTOR'S  Society  MAKE-UP 

"Cosmetics  of  the  Stars" .  .  .  HOLLYWOOD 

96Ci  of  ill  iti..  H      .  .\ood  Screen  s  ■  Mai  Tic-  W 

(Lit  Amgi..  C  SfJ.  I 


I  Mr  M 
I  Dear  S 
1  cfSocitr* 


MAIL  FOR   YOUR  COMPLEXION  ANALYSIS 


Factor — Mai  Factor  Studios.  Hollywood.  Calif.   1-4-32 

ir:   Send  mc  a  complimentary  copy  of  >our  48-page  book.     I  V  .Vrs  Art. 

■  ■■■Vf".  personal  complexion  analysis  and  make-up  color  harmony! 

|  chart.   I  enclose  ioc  (coin  or  sump) 


I  to  cover  cost  of  postage  and  handling. 


GOWUBOON 


COIOH  LVtS 


[     .--    HAM 


AGE    j 


i8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


Scalp  troubles? 
Loose  Dandruff? 


Read  letters  below— 

they  tell  much  better  than  we  could 
the  amazing  results  accomplished  by 
Listerine  in  treating  scalp  disorders. 

MEN  and  women  are  constantly  writing  us  of  the  beneficial 
effects  of  using  full  strength  Listerine  on  the  scalp  and  hair, 
either  as  a  part  of  the  usual  shampoo  or  independent  of  it.  In 
many  cases  they  report  that  Listerine  brought  relief  from  scalp 
troubles  after  other  methods  of  treatment  had  failed. 

The  letters  below,  selected  from  many  hundreds,  show  a  number 
of  uses  to  which  Listerine  has  successfully  been  put.  The  value  of 
this  safe  antiseptic  lies  primarily  in  its  ability  to  destroy  germs  almost 
instantly,  and  therefore  combat  infection.  At  the  same  time  it  is 
soothingand  healing  to  tissue.  Lambert  PharmacalCo.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


Relieved  Itching  Scalp 

My  husband  and  I  can't  find  praise 
enough  for  Listerine.  It  sure  is  wonder- 
ful. For  months  he  was  troubled  with 
dandruff"  and  his  scalp  itched  him  ter- 
ribly. He'd  come  home  from  work  so 
grouchy,  that  you  could  hardly  speak  to 
him  and  he'd  always  say  "  How  can  I 
help  it?  My  scalp  itches  so  badly,  that 
it  nearly  drives  me  crazy,  and  I  have  so 
much  dandruff  that  I'm  ashamed  to  be 
seen  anywhere." 

One  of  our  friends  advised  him  to  try 
Listerine.  At  first  he  laughed,  but  I 
finally  persuaded  him  to  try  it.  He  did 
and  with  such  wonderful  results  the  first 
time  that  he  went  right  to  the  druggist's 
and  purchased  a  large  bottle.  He  has 
been  using  it  regularly  once  a  week  and 
I  can  truthfully  say  that  he  hasn't  a  bit 
of  dandruff,  or  noticed  any  itching  of 
the  scalp  since  he's  been  using  it. 
Yours  truly, 

Mrs.  Virgil  Helbig 

Newport,  Kentucky 

Ended  Baby's  "Milk  Crust" 

\\  hen  my  infant  daughter  reached  the 
age  of  four  months,  a  fine  film  of  "  milk 
crust"  commonly  known  as  "cradle 
cap"  formed  on  her  scalp.  I  attempted 
to  soften  this  film  with  olive  oil,  hoping 
thereby,  to  release  it  from  the  scalp  but 
soon  discovered  that  this  treatment  was 
ineffective  as  the  "cap"  had  thoroughly 
imbedded  itself  in  the  scalp.  Combing 
With  a  fine  tooth  comb  helped  somewhat 
but  was  not  recommended  as  it  tended 
to  irritate  the  sensitive  scalp  and  one 
had  to  be  extremely  careful  of  the  soft 
opening  at  the  top  of  the  head.  The 
scalp  not  only  was  unsightly  but  refused 
to  respond  to  treatment. 

Finally  my  husband  suggested  Lis- 
terine, two  parts  of  Listerine  to  one  part 
of  warm  water,  and  rinsing  the  baby's 
head  with  this  solution. 

Skeptical,  I  gave  it  a  trial  for  a  week, 
soaking  baby's  head  thoroughly  once 
daily  with  the  diluted  Listerine.  At  the 
end  of  the  week  I  noticed  that  the 
"crust"  had  almost  disappeared  and 
that  the  remaining  flakes  were  quite 
loose  and  could   be  combed  out  with 


gentle  movements.    I  continued  using 
the  diluted  Listerine  for  the  two  suc- 
cessive weeks  and  at  the  end  of  that 
time  baby's  scalp  was  clean.    I  noticed 
no  irritation  or  discomfiture  on  her  part, 
therefore  was  certain  that  Listerine  was 
as  harmless  to  infants'  sensitive  scalps 
as  to  adults'  more  hardened  ones. 
Sincerely  yours, 
Mrs.  Mildred  S.  MacLeod 
Jamaica,  L,  I.,  N.  Y. 

Relieves  Itching  of  Diabetic 
Patient 

Early  in  our  education  as  student  nurses 
we  are  taught,  among  other  important 
duties,  the  Nurse  should  not  prescribe, 
and  also,  she  should  be  seen  and  not 
heard. 

But,  as  regards  Listerine  and  its  valu- 
able properties,  I  feel  it  is  necessary  that 
I  be  heard.  If  I  may  so  express  myself, 
I  find  Listerine  to  be  the  last  word  in 
securing  a  cooling,  refreshing,  and  per- 
manent relief  or  cure  from  the  annoy- 
ance of  not  alone  dandruff,  but  skin 
conditions  especially  those  of  the  scalp 
so  often  prevalent  in  diabetes. 

A  small  piece  of  cotton  dipped  in 
Listerine  and  applied  to  the  scalp,  after 
parting  the  hair,  not  only  relieves  the 
itching,  but  refreshes  the  patient  con- 
fined to  bed  (which  automatically  reacts 
on  the  general  physical  health  and 
soothes  them  to  sleep  many  times)  and 
it  entirely  removes  the  large  itching 
spots  that  occur  on  the  scalp  in  the  dia- 
betic patient. 

These  spots  often  appear  on  the  fore- 
head, on  the  sides  of  the  face  and  around 
back  of  the  neck,  bordering  the  hair  and 
are  visible,  about  the  size  of  a  quarter. 
They  not  only  itch  but  are  embarrass- 
ing; as  skin  desquamates  and  falls  on 
the  eyebrows  finally  rests  on  the  chest 
and  shoulders.  These  irritated  spots, 
thanks  to  Listerine  which  I  always  apply 
to  the  infected  area,  are  controlled,  at 
the  same  time  soothed,  and  ultimately 
obliterated. 

Cordially  yours, 
Mary  Wilson  Patton,  R.  N. 
San  Antonio,  Texas 


Don't  miss  BOBBY  JONES,  King  of  Golf 

Listerine  Hour 

Every  Wednesday  Night 

WEAF  and  a  coast  to  coast  ISBC  network 

See  your  local  paper  for  time 


' 


THE  youngest  princess  of  the  Royal  House  of  Bennett, 
Joan  by  name  and  star  by  destiny.  Always  busy  in  the 
studios,  she  is  the  least  tempestuous  of  the  three  Bennett  girls,  the 
other  two  being  Constance  and  Barbara.  You'll  be  seeing  her 
with  Lew  Ayres  in  "Many  a  Slip"  any  moment  now 


Clarence  Sinclair  Bull 


THIS  beautiful,  inscrutable  face  is  discussed  at  every  party 
where  true  film  devotees  get  together  and  talk  things  over. 
We  have  all  thought  of  her  as  a  mystery  woman,  but  read  what 
Katherine  Albert  has  to  say  about  her  in  this  issue.  All  agree, 
however,  on  one  point — she's  a  fascinating  actress 


Otto  Dyar 


CAN  this  be  the  little  Texas  girl  we've  called  pretty  anJ 
let  it  go  at  that?  Yes  sir,  it'-  M.irv  Brian,  her-elf,  but  a 
new,  more  mature  Mary  than  we've  known  up  to  now.  Or  may- 
be she  and  the  Paramount  photographer  got  together  and  decided 
to  submit  to  the  Garbo  influence 


Ernest  A.  Rachrach 


YANCEY  CRAVAT,  himself— where  a  fine  actor  and  a  fas- 
cinating fiction  character  met  and  came  vividly  to  life  in  the 
person  of  Richard  Dix.  His  work  in  "Cimarron"  has  made  Dix, 
after  all  these  years,  one  of  the  most  talked-of  figures  in  pictures. 
And  what  a  fine  show  the  boy  does  give ! 


/ 


V 


m 


I 


i 


Candy 
Mint 

Me 
HOL 


Overflowing 
with  delicious  flavor! 

Fresh,  crisp,  rhina-hard  rings  of 
pure  enjoy  mint . . ,.  the  Taste  Sen- 
sation of  a  Nation... throat  sooth- 
ing... mouth  refreshing. 

Millions  like  them  after  eating... 
after  smoking...  they  aid  digestion 
. . .  sweeten  breath. 

There's  a  flavor  for  every  taste... 
in  the  convenient  roll  form... 
handy  for  pocket  or  purse. 

And  also,  try  the  famous  fruit 
flavored  LIFE  SAVERS. ..Orange, 
Lemon,  Lime,  and  Crape  ...  as 
delightful  as  the  fruit  itself! 


^y    "i 


:/j 


All  condy  products  having  »he   distinctive  shape  of  life   Savers   ore  manufactured  by   lite   Savers.  Inc 


The  story  of  a  wife  who 
recaptured  the  romance 
in  her  marriage  .  .  . 


ii< 


«r  ^SECOND 


Jioneymoon 


i 


BEATRICE 
FAIRFAX 

who  has  helped  many  wives  by  her 
discussions  of  marriage   problems 


JIM  and  Ada  had  been  married  ten  years. 
They  felt  romance  and  glamour  fading. 
" '  And  then,  Miss  Fairfax,'  writes  Ada,  '/ 
set  my  wits  to  work.  I  wanted  Jim  to  think  of 
me  as  his  sweetheart,  not  just  as  busy  housewife 
and  mother. 

"'What  I  did  was  to  buy  myself  a  second 
trousseau!    Not  expensive  things,  but  lovely 
colorful   frocks   and   lingerie  that  gave  me  a 
feeling    of    being   charming 
and  so  feminine.  ^■^■^■^■■M 

"'Jim  almost  at  once  sensed 
the  change  in  me.  He  once 
more  seemed  to  find  me  the 
girl  he  had  adored.  And  now 
we're  having  a  second  honey- 
moon that's  going  to  last  all 
our  married  days!' 

"WlSE  wife!  How 
easy  to  keep  honeymoon  hap- 
piness all  through  marriage, 
if  every  wife  would  do  two 
simple  things: 

1.  Buy  colorful,  dainty  frocks 
and  lingerie. 

2.  Keep  them  color-fresh  and 
charming  always. 

"  Y rocks  in  becoming  colors  can  make 
you  look  so  pretty  and  young!  And  the 
deliciously  soft,  lacy  lingerie  one  can  buy 
so  reasonably  nowadays  makes  you  feel 
utterly  feminine!  A  shining  feeling  .  .  . 
that  calls  forth  adoration  and  holds  it. 

"  Don't  believe  you  can't  afford  such 
frivolous  clothes.  For  with  Lux,  that 
wonderful  product  you  all  know,  they 
can  be  kept  charming  and  new  so  long 
every   woman    can    afford    them.     Many, 


Jfoneymoon  Jfappiness  need  never  jade 


Peach  satin  lingerie  washed 
12  times  in  ordinary  "good" 
soap — lace  and  satin  worn, 
color  faded,  lustre  lost. 


Duplicate  lingerie  Luxed  12 
times— silk  and  lace  fibres 
intact,  the  color  charming  as 
new.    Utterly  exquisite! 


many  Lux  washings  won't  disturb  their 
shimmering  beauty. 

"Lux  is  especially  made  to  preserve 
colors  and  the  life  of  delicate  fabrics. 
Their  charm,  too.  So  that  as  long  as  you 
wear  them,  they  lend  their  charm  to  you! 

"And  in  your  home:  Keep  your  home 
fresh  and  pretty,  too,  for  this  adds  to 
your  charm.  Linens,  colorful  curtains, 
sofa  cushions — always  look  lovely  if  you 
use  Lux."  Hfvtrice  Fairfax 


No  matter  how  delicate  a  color . .  If  it's  safe  in  water  alone,  it's  just  as  safe  in  LUX 


April,  ipjl 


The    National     Guide 
to     Motion      Pictures 


I  IkAlifc    UAHK   | 


F 


AIRMAN  US  go1  8800,- 

000    for     lii-     work    in 

'  *  R eac  hing  for  t  li e 
Moon."  Irving  Berlin  go! 
(50,000  and  fifty  per  cenl  of 
tlic  profits  for  writing  the 
story.  Edmund  Goulding 
got  882,000  for  directing  it, 
and  Elsie  Janis  received  a 
mere  pittance  of  825,000  for 
tinkering  the  dialogue.  After 
these  incidentals  there  was 
the  actual  cost  of  the  picture. 

"kiki"  cost  ;i  million  dollars,  Mary  work- 
ing for  wages  for  the  first  time  in  many  years. 
And  they  do  say  that  De  Sylva,  Brown  and 
Henderson,  the  song  writers,  got  8300,000 
for  writing  Gloria  Swanson's  new  picture. 
Set  'em  up  again,  George,  and  see  what 
the  boys  in  the  back  room  are  going  to  have. 


WILL  these  hokus-pokus  spiritualist-,  psychic 
investigators,  and  mediums  ever  let  poor 
Valentino  rest  in  peace?  First  Natacha  Rambova 
gave  out  spirit  messages.  Then  a  thousand  mediums 
got  busy  on  the  radio  to  astral  planes.  They  didn't 
bother  to  get  together,  and  they  reported  him  as 
putting  over  all  sorts  of  goofy  and  contradictory 
messages.  Recently  they  got  busy  again,  and  this 
time  report  him  as  saying  he  did  net  die  a  natural 
death. 

I  remember,  a  few  months  before  be  died,  asking 
^  alentino  if  he  believed  in  this  stuff.  lie  had  become 
interested  in  the  subject  through  June  Mathis,  who 
wrote  the  script  of  "The  Four  Horsemen,"  which 
brought  him  fame.  His  reply  was  one  word:  "Apple- 
sauce." 

FOR  several  years  the  intelligentsia— that's  what 
they  call  critics  who  have  a  thesaurus  and  know 
where  to  find  big  words — have  been  raving  about 
Chaplin,   "the  supreme  artist." 

And  it  seems  only  a  few  years  ago,  when  they 
showed    his    pictures    in    second-rate   theaters,    that 


Close- UpS  and 

Long-Shots 


respectable  folks  visited  the 

little  movie  shops  stealthily, 
darting  furtively  in.  looking 
o\ er  their  shoulder  lesl  some 

one    with    a    clean    collar 
them  enter. 


By 

James  R.   Quirk 


IRFA 
fortl 


MEMBER  seeing  him 

he  first  time  in  Levy's 
Restaurant,  in  Los  Angeles, 
fifteen  years  ago.  Mary 
Pickford  and  Owen  Moore 
dined    then-    inexpensively. 

At    other    tallies    sat    Mabel    Xormand    ami 

Mack  Sennett,  Charlie  Murray,  Ford  Ster- 
ling. I).  \Y.  Griffith,  Bessie  Barriscale,  Henry 
Walthall,  Ruth  Roland,  .1.  Warren  Kerrigan, 
Jackie  Saunders,  Dustin  Farnum,  Tom 
[nee,  and  Charlie  Ray.  It  was  the  evening 
rendezvous  of  Sennett's  troupe. 

Charlie  Murray  pointed  Chaplin  out  to 
me.  "See  that  little  fellow  there?"  be  said.  "He's  just 
Started,  and  Sennett   thinks  he's  goinu'  to  lie  good." 

CHAPLIN'S    picture    will    not    change    picture. 
technique,  nor  cause  any  retardation  of  dialogue. 

But  it  has  shown  the  industry  how  to  make  pictures 
that  will  sell  abroad.  It  succeeds  in  spitr  of  its  lack 
of  dialogue.  No  one  but  Chaplin  could  have  sur- 
vived the  handicap.  Poxy  Charlie  -looking  at  the 
world  market   and  making  the  highbrows  call  it   art. 


H, 


AVE  you  seen  "Cimarron"  yet?  I've  seen  it 
.three  times  and  got  the  same  thrill  every  time. 
What  a  directorial  job  Wesley  Rugglcs  has  done! 
It  brings  Richard  Dix  back  to  the  forefront,  and 
starts  Irene  Dunne  off  as  one  of  our  greatest  srreen 
artists.  Go  see  it,  and  tell  the  little  woman  to  take 
an  extra  hankv  to  drv  her  tears. 


A  VETERAN  pictm 
in   a   Lifetime,"   tl 


hire  director  went  to  see  '"Once 
the  stage  play  that  shows  up 
some  of  the  absurd  business  methods  and  social 
antics  of  Hollywood.    He  sat  through  it  straight-faced. 


"Why  don't  you  laugh?"  asked  a  friend. 
"How    can    I    laugh    about    something    I've    cried 
about  for  ten  years?"  was  the  rejoinder. 

FORCED,  by  economic  pressure,  to  work  as  an 
actor  under  a  director  whom  he  realized  knew  not 
half  as  much  as  he  did,  made  to  suffer  every  humilia- 
tion at  his  hands,  broke  between  pictures,  out  at 
the  elbows,  his  wife  with  but  one  dress  time  and  time 
again,  cursing  producers,  fighting  alwrays  for  his 
artistic  ideals,  no  figure  in  Hollywood  is  more  color- 
ful and  brilliant  than  Eric  Von  Stroheim.  He  is  now 
to  make  "Blind  Husbands,"  one  of  his  first  great 
successes,  as  a  talkie  for  Universal,  the  company 
which  gave  him  his  first  opportunity. 

Von  Stroheim,  alone  in  his  opinions,  alone  in  his 
artistic  ambitions,  a  novelist  where  other  directors 
are  short  story  writers,  must  continue  to  pound  his 
head  against  the  impenetrable  wall  of  commercialism. 

The  producers  are  afraid  of  the  costs  of  his  pictures 
and  therefore  he  must  conform — as  much  as  Von 
can  ever  be  made  to  conform — but  he  still  has  the 
fun  of  cursing  them. 

FOR  two  months  a  writer  and  a  cutter,  with  a  corps 
of  sound  technicians,  have  been  working  over  the 
emaciated  form  of  a  picture  that  had  been  "shelved" 
as  unfit  to  release.  They  tried  to  make  it  a  burlesque. 
They  tried  dialogue.  They  tried  music  and  sound. 
The  studio  nickname  for  the  picture  is  "Lazarus," 
and  they  call  the  workers  "The  Miracle  Men." 

LISTEN  to  Ernst  Lubitsch: 
"For  eight  years  I  have  been  coming  to  New 
York.  Each  time  I  see  a  musical  show  on  Broadway. 
In  it  there  is  always  a  song,  the  same  song,  sung  by  a 
girl  who  tells  how  her  man  is  unfaithful  to  her,  how 
he  hits  her  over  the  head  with  a  bottle,  yet  she  loves 
him.    Always  that  song  is  popular. 

"Now,  when  New  York  gets  a  new  song,  then  it 
can  begin  to  talk  about  being  ahead  of  Hollywood." 

THEY'VE  wired  D.  W.  Griffith's  grand  old  epic, 
"The  Birth  of  a  Nation,"  for  sound.  If  you  plug 
up  your  ears  with  sound-proof  material,  you'll  enjoy 
it  as  much  as  you  ever  did.  But,  why  in  the  name  of 
common  sense,  just  because  somebody  invented 
talkies,  should  they  take  this  masterpiece  and  stick 
in  a  lot  of  canned  music,  mob  shouts  and  a  so-called 
rebel  yell? 

MUSIC  and  singing  are  dead,  say  the  producers. 
No,  no,  music  and  singing  are  not  dead.     It's 
the  music  and  the  singers. 

DURING  the  panic  of  1907  a  young  fellow  came 
into  a  bank  near  Fourteenth  Street  every  day 
with  a  cloth  sack  bulging  with  nickels,  dimes,  and 
quarters.  The  lone  depositor  aroused  the  curiosity 
of  the  president  of  the  bank.  "Who  is  that  chap 
who  is  bringing  in  cash?"  he  asked  the  teller. 

26 


He  was  told  the  man  was  William  Fox,  who  owned 
a  motion  picture  house  nearby. 

FIVE  years  ago  Slim  Summerville  was  getting  $3.j0 
a  week  at  Universal.  Although  recommended  at 
that  time  for  a  fifty  dollar  raise,  the  studio  manager 
refused  to  give  it  to  him.  Recently  he  signed  a 
new  contract  at  $2,000  and  when  that  same  manager 
wants  to  see  Slim  now  he  has  to  go  to  the  actor's  bun- 
galow on  the  other  side  of  the  lot.  Slim  won't  go  into 
his  office.    That's  r-r-revenge. 

AN  interesting  piece  of  "Americana"  has  been 
discovered — a  poem,  "To  Mary  Pickford," 
w  ritten  by  Vachel  Lindsay,  the  now  eminent  American 
poet.    The  first  stanza  reads: 

Mary  Pickford,  doll  divine 
Year  by  year,  and  every  day, 
At  the  Moving  Picture  Play, 
You  have  been  my  Valentine. 

That  was  written  in  1914,  when  the  movies,  and, 
one  assumes,  Mr.  Lindsay,  were  still  in  their  infancy. 

GEORGE  BERNARD  SHAW,  after  all  his  talk 
about  pictures,  turns  out  the  worst  British  film 
of  the  year,  thereby  establishing  a  new  low  in  art  .  .  . 
The  blind  flower  girl  in  "City  Lights"  was  a  true  echo 
of  an  old  romance  in  Chaplin's  life  .  .  .  The  prize 
title  change  of  the  month.  Radio  Pictures  changed 
"Room  and  Board"  to  "Board  and  Room"  .  .  .  The 
Providence,  Rhode  Island,  film  censor  did  not  make 
a  single  cut  during  the  year  1930  .  .  .  Mary  Pickford 
says  if  she  could  live  her  life  over  again  she  would  not 
wrant  a  career  .  .  .  Picture  stock  value  jumps 
$80,000,000  in  one  month  .  .  .  "Trader  Horn,"  on 
the  shelf  for  a  year,  turns  out  to  be  a  wow  .  .  .  No 
more  big  Westerns,  or  gangster  pictures  said  the 
producers,  and  "Cimarron"  and  "Little  Caesar"  go 
out  and  knock  'em  dead  .  .  .  The  company  that  let 
Ina  Claire  out  a  year  ago  wants  her  back  at  five  times 
the  salary  .  .  .  Bill  Powell  jumps  from  Mr.  Lasky's 
to  a  competitor  and  now  Lasky  is  going  to  make  a  big 
star  out  of  Carole  Lombard,  Bill's  best  girl. 

IN  Lille,  France,  school  children  in  a  recent  ques- 
tionnaire, could  name  ten  or  twelve  American 
movie  stars  but  couldn't  name  more  than  two  or 
three  French  statesmen  .  .  .  Professor  Mark  A. 
May,  of  Yale,  leans  over  his  classroom  desk  and  tells 
the  lads  that  "It"  means  your  stimulation  value  .  .  . 
The  Presbyterian  Board  of  Christian  Education  is 
distributing  talkie  sermons  to  enlist  youth  in  church 
activities  .  .  .  The  greatest  part  that  Seena  Owen 
ever  played,  a  piece  of  work  that  would  have  revived 
her  old  popularity  with  public  and  producers,  will 
never  see  the  screen.  It  was  in  the  Swanson  million 
dollar  fiasco,  "Queen  Kelly"  .  .  .  We  told  you  so 
item  of  the  month:  (February  issue)  that  Farrell  and 
Valli  would  be  married. 


Bert  Lorgworth 


'Ready  on 

the  Set!" 


"  T_TFY.  Miss  Mackaill,  ready  on  the  set," 
-*■-*■  the  assistant  director  is  yelling,  and 
the  First  National  star  takes  a  final  look  at 
her  make-up  by  the  light  of  a  sun-arc  lamp. 
Dorothy  is  doing  "Party  Husbands"  to 
the  tune  of  Clarence  Badger's  megaphone 


87 


yJietrich 


BY  the  time  this  article  appears 
Marlene  Dietrich  will  have 
started  back  to  Hollywood  to 
resume  her  picture  making, 
but  she  has  left  behind  considerable 
amusement  here  over  the  frantic 
efforts  of  the  sages  of  Hollywood  to 
peg  the  exquisite,  exotic  and  elusive 
star,  its  latest  sensation,  to  one  of 
the  few  standardized  types  to  which 
every  respectable  American  movie 
beauty  is  supposed  to  belong. 

But  apparently  Marlene  won't 
stay  pegged,  for  she  is  not  an 
American  girl,  but  a  European 
woman. 

The  closest  these  sages  have  got 
to  a  classification  has  been  to  say 
that  she  is  another  Greta  Garbo, 
which  is  true  as  far  as  it  goes.  It 
goes  no  farther,  however,  than  to 
say  that  one  Chinaman  is  like 
another. 

True,  both  are  European.  True 
also  that  both  are  blonde  and 
Nordic.  That  increases  the  resem- 
blance, but  there  it  ends,  too. 

America  still  produces  the  most 
beautiful  girls  in  creation.  They 
are  not  only  beautiful,  but  upstand- 
ing, self-reliant,  free,  fearless,  and 
superior  to  mere  man.  They  glitter 
and  sparkle,  with  the  beauty  of  rare 
gems.  And  that  goes  for  all  of  them 
— from  sixteen  to  sixty. 

EUROPE,  on  the  other  hand,  is 
still  a  man's  country.  The 
female  of  the  species  is  still  the  Sub- 
merged Sex.  "Americanized"  girls 
arc  few — and  frowned  upon.  The 
European  woman  is,  outwardly,  at 
least,  not  upstanding,  nor  self-reli- 
ant, free  or  independent.  She  does 
not  flaunt  her  superiority  to  man. 

Girls  in  particular  are  nothing 
much  in  Europe.  They  are  merely 
incomplete  women  —  chicks  who 
stray  at  times,  but  who  really  be- 
long under  the  wings  of  some 
mother  hen.  The  European  man 
dominates  the  woman,  and  the 
European  woman  dominates  the 
girl. 

Hut  a  subtle  training  has  helped 
to  equalize  things  for  the  European 
woman.  Unable  openly  to  chal- 
lenge man's  dominance,  she  is 
brought  up  from  childhood  to  gain 
her  ends  through  man  by  methods 
which  would  be  known  in  America 


Marlene  Dietrich  and  her  discoverer- 
director,  Josef  Von   Sternberg.     She 
spoke   one   line    in    English — and   he 
signed  her  for  "The  Blue  Angel" 


u  i    in  ——a 

&         *  3B  "" 

IVft :  gi 

Lim  1   f 

ti;J  ji  1  [ 

lL  3 

% 

1.   ■    .  1  H 

| 

Sh 


e 


Happened 


AS  alluring  as  is  the  exotic  Mar- 
lene Dietrich,  and  as  sensa- 
tional as  has  been  her  sudden  rise 
to  prominence  on  the  American 
screen,  it  is  generally  agreed  by 
friends  of  both  that  the  German 
actress'  introduction  to  American 
talkies  would  have  been  less  bril- 
liant if  it  hadn't  been  for  the  guiding 
genius  of  Josef  Von  Sternberg,  her 
discoverer  and  director. 


Plucking  her  from  a  German  musi- 
cal comedy  in  Berlin  for  the  lead- 
ing feminine  r6le  opposite  Emil 
Jannings  in  "The  Blue  Angel,"  Von 
Sternberg  has  guided  her  movie 
career  from  that  moment  with  an 
unswerving  devotion  and  intense 
zeal. 


hike  an  artist  working  in  clay,  Von 
Sternberg  has  molded  and  modeled 
her  to  his  own  design,  and  Marlene, 
plastic  and  willing  to  be  the  ma- 
terial in  the  director's  hands,  has 
responded  to  his  creative  moods. 


From  the  time  she  stepped  into  her 
first  part  under  his  direction  he  has 
guided  her,  giving  her  all  of  his  ex- 
pert help  in  "The  Blue  Angel." 
He  saw  to  it  that  she  got  a  good 
story  for  her  next  picture,  rigidly 
passed  on  all  of  her  portraits  and 
the  "stills"  that  were  sent  out  on 
her.  He  supervised  her  publicity, 
and  teas  her  escort  at  the  glittering 
Hollywood  openings  that  were  so 
new  to  her. 


On  and  off  the  screen  he  has  guided 
and  directed  her  to  her  best  ad- 
vantage, and  though  Marlene  was 
born  in  Germany,  and  received  all 
of  her  stage  training  and  experience 
there,  it  can  truly  be  said  that  she 
was  "Made  in  America" — and  by 
Von  Sternberg. 


The    greatest    thing   in   Marlene 

Dietrich's  life  is  not  her  newly  won 

film  fame,  the  applause  of  millions,  but 

her  five-year  old  daughter,  Maria 


By 
Otto    Toll  sch  its 


Read  tli is  fascinat- 
ing and  intimate  ac- 
count of  Marlene's 
background  and 
beginnings  by  an 
American  journal- 
ist in  Germany 


as  tlu-  "dinging  vine"  system.    It  means 
making    man    her    prime    concern.      lier 
•reapon  is  her  femininity;  her  weak 
her  strength. 

Ami  so,  the  difference  between  Marlcnc 
Dietrich  and  American  movie  stars  is  the 
difference  between  two  continents.  Not 
all  European  women  are  Marlene  Diet- 
richs.  but  Marlene  Dietrich  could  only  be 
a  European  woman. 

For  Marlene  Dietrich  is,  in  a  sense,  the 
sublimation  of  European  Femininity,  the 
wish-fulfilment  of  European  girls, 
appeal"  is  the  American  word  for  it,  but 
that  is  only  one  side  of  it.  Marlene  is 
reputed  to  have  the  most  beautiful  legs  in 
filmdom,  but  somehow  one  docs  not  think 
of  Marlene  Dietrich  as  merely  a  pair  of 

She  is  primarily  a  woman  in  the  com- 
prehensive, all-inclusive  sense. 

SHE  is  all  women  in  one,"  an  American 
writer  said. 

A  European  would  have  said  that  she 
is  wife,  mother  and  sweetheart,  all  in  on,-. 
and  would  have  paid  her  therewith  his 
highest  compliment. 

Patrician,  continental  upbringing  and  a 
continental  background  made  Marlene 
Dietrich  what  she  is.  Only  through  them 
can  she  be  explained. 

That  soft,  seductive  beauty  which  is 
not  'wimpish"  at  all.  and  is  independent 
of  the  beauty  parlor;  the  supple  figure 
which,  for  American  standards,  is  rcallv 
somewhat  overw  eight ;  the  soft,  cultivated 
voice,  her  unassertiveness,  patience  and 
eagerness  to  please,  so  favorably  noticed 
in  Hollywood;  above  all.  those  eyes  that 
can  light  up  in  a  saucy  smile  and  then  hide 
behind  shimmering  veils  that  seem  to  hold 
all  the  mysteries  of  womanhood— all  that 
is  continental,  European,  and  yet  unique. 

Have  you  noticed  the  resemblance  be- 
tween the  look  in  the  eyes  of  Marlene 

[  PLEASE  TURX  TO  PAGE  129  ] 


The  Marlene  Dietrich  who  flamed 
across  our  screens  like  a  flash  of 
lightning — the  glamorous  girl  of 
"The  Blue  Angel."  Unique  and  ex- 
traordinary in  personality,  no  copy 
of  anyone,  she  is  "all  women  in 
one  —  wife,    mother   and   sweetheart" 


?.o 


How 

Trader  Horn 

Was  Made 


One  scene  of  the  hair-raising  episode 

in  which  the  starved  band  of  fugitives 

takes  a  meal  away  from  a  lion.    This 

was  made  in  Mexico 


An  answer  to  the 
questions  millions  are 
asking  about  this 
splendid    pictu  re 


WHILE  it  sometimes  seems  like  painting  the  lily,  it 
is,  nevertheless,  oftentimes  necessary  for  the 
movies  to  "improve  upon  nature"  in  order  to  make 
a  picture  more  dramatic  and  more  entertaining  to 
the  spectator. 

"Trader  Horn,"  the  thrilling  adventures  of  a  group  of  white 
people  on  the  Dark  Continent,  is  a  case  in  point.  If  you 
haven't  seen  it  already,  by  all  means  do  so,  and  take  the  whole 
family. 

There  has  been  criticism  in  some  quarters  that  the  jungle 
scenes,  natives,  animal  shots  and  growls  in  the  pictures  are 
not  always  genuine,  but  in  many  instances  were  doctored. 
This  is  true  enough,  but  the  producers  explain  that  "Trader 
Horn"  is  neither  an  animal  picture  nor  a  travelogue,  but  a 
dramatization  of  a  human  interest  story  with  a  jungle  back- 
ground. They  had  the  good  taste  not  to  misrepresent  it  to 
the  public  like  so  many  others  have  done. 

Most  of  the  background  scenes  were  taken  in  Africa.  The 
acting  company  spent  nearly  a  year  on  location  there,  and  some 
of  the  natives,  war  dances,  animal  shots,  and  other  wild  and 
woolly  embellishments  are  one  hundred  per  cent  genuine  and 
true.  Edwina  Booth  and  the  entire  company  suffered  many 
hardships  to  make  a  great  picture  for  you. 

But  to  turn  out  a  finished  picture  and  follow  the  dramatic 
story  they  wished  to  film,  it   was  necessary  to  supplement 

30 


this  with  a  lot  of  African  atmosphfere  created  by  the  movie 
makers  themselves. 

Originally,  the  whole  company  went  over  to  make  the 
picture.  At  the  time  sound  was  still  new  and  no  sound  apparatus 
went  along. 

When  sound  "took,"  however,  M-G-M  sent  over  some  of  the 
early  sound  recording  equipment  and  with  this  they  recorded 
sound  in  Africa.  Some  of  it  was  good,  but  some  of  it  was  found 
to  be  particularly  poor  when  the  company  returned  and  dis- 
covered what  could  be  done  with  the  improved  sound  mechan- 
isms  then   available. 

ACCORDINGLY,  they  did  most  of  the  sound  over.  Most  of 
it  was  made  in  the  studio,  though  some  is  the  original  Afri- 
can stuff  amplified  and  clarified.  The  tribal  chanting  and  native 
talking  is  among  the  real  African-made  sound,  and  much  of  the 
Carey-Renaldo-Booth  dialogue.  All  of  it.  though,  is  cleverly 
done  and  so  well  pieced  together  that  it's  impossible  to  tell 
where  the  genuine  and  the  false  begin  and  leave  off.  One  of 
the  finest  jobs  of  the  kind  ever  done. 

Practically  all  of  the  animal  sound  is  synthetic.  Lions  were 
made  to  roar  in  the  studio. 

One  of  the  most  exciting  scenes  is  a  raging  lion  charging 
Edwina  Booth.  This  was  made  with  the  use  of  a  double.  The 
long  shot  shows  Edwina  fainting   [  please  turn  to  pace  129  ] 


Little  Marian  Marsh  in  her   Trilby 

make-up,  and  her  beautiful  sister 

who,  failing  herself,  trained  Marian 

for  a  screen  career 


One  of  the  strangest 
Cinderella  stories 
that  ever  happened 
in  Cinderella  Citv 


"You  Should 

See  My  Kid 


Si 


55 


ister 


HERE'S  a  true  Cinderella  story  from  Hollywood — only 
in  this  case,  Cinderella's  own  sister  was  the  fairy  god- 
mother who  made  her  dreams  come  true. 

Little,  blonde,  seventeen-year-old  Marian  Marsh — 
yesterday,  just  another  one  of  Hollywood's  innumerable  movie 
nobodys:  today,  John  Barry more's  new  leading  lady!  She  plays 
Trilby  to  Barrymore's  Svaigali.  It's  the  story  of  Marian  and 
of  her  older  sister  Jeanne — Jeanne  Morgan,  she  calls  herself, 
who  too  sought  fame  in  movies. 

But  Jeanne's  too  tall.  Overheight  is  one  of  the  handicaps 
that  keep  a  girl  from  stardom.  And  so  Jeanne,  realizing  the 
hopelessness  of  her  own  quest  for  film  fame,  transferred  her 
ambitions  to  her  kid  sister. 

And  it  was  the  magic  of  Jeanne's  everlasting  boosting  of 
that  kid  sister  that  finally  put  little  Marian  in  the  place  where, 
like  Cinderella  in  the  fairy  tale,  she  met  Prince  Charming. 
Only  in  this  story,  Prince  Charming  is  John  Barrymore — but 
nothing  could  have  been  more  princely  or  more  charming  to 
Marian  than  Barrymore's  acceptance  of  her  for  the  role  of 
Trilby. 

The  story  begins — back  in  the  island  of  Trinidad.  British 
W  est  Indies,  where  Marian  and  Jeanne  were  born.  And  their 
family  name,  if  you  must  know,  isn't  either  Marsh  or  Morgan 
— it's  Krauth.  But  how  would  Krauth  look  in  neon  lights 
on  a  theater  marquee?     Don't  be  silly. 


When  Marian  was  ten,  the  family  moved  to  New  England; 
Daddy  had  inherited  a  manufacturing  business  there,  and  gave 
up  his  job  as  chocolate-buyer. 

Naturally,  like  any  girls  in  their  teens,  Marian  and  Jeanne 
used  to  go  to  movies  and  envy  the  glamorous  heroines  of  the 
screen,  and  dream  of  being  like  them.  Or  better  yet,  being 
them. 

"Wouldn't  it  be  swell  .  .  .?"  Oh,  you  know  how  kids  dream. 
And  then,  as  luck  would  have  it,  the  family  came  to  California. 
It  was  a  matter  of  somebody's  health — but  the  important 
thing  was,  they  came  to  Hollywood.  Marian  went  to  school; 
Jeanne,  older  and  done  with  school,  set  out  to  make  her  own 
dreams  come  true.    She  got  work  in  pictures  as  extra  girl. 

ATTRACTIVE,  she  did  fairly  well.  But  once  on  the  inside, 
she  saw  that  her  aims  could  never  be  fulfilled.  She  had  to 
realize  that,  for  one  reason  or  another,  stardom  was  not  for  her. 
Disillusionment  is  not  a  sweet  experience:  it  very  often  sours 
people  against  the  things  that  disillusioned  them.  But  Jeanne 
was  different. 

"If  it  can't  be  I,"  she  reasoned,  "why  not  the  kid  sister?" 
And  then  the  afterthought:  "  .  .  .but  she's  got  to  have  more 
than    I    had:" 

So  the  intensive  preparation  of  Marian  began.  She  was  sent 
to  school — not  alone  Hollywood    [  pi  EASE  tirx  to  page  128  ] 

SI 


Illustrated  by 

H.  R.  Ballinger 


Everything  in  this 
story  of  Hollywood  is 
true  except  the  names 


ANOTHER  of  the  famous  dinners  of 
Madame  de  Longpre! 
Among  those  present: 
Mary   Leeds,   the  latest  little  furor  in  film  stars, 
tangle  of  pale  gold  curls.     Wistful,  beautiful  lips. 

Prince  Saranoff,  a  prince  and  a  poet,  dangerously  handsome. 

Zara,  a  gypsy,  looking  for  the  past,  present  and  future. 

Johnny   Haversmith    (inconspicuously   behind   the   palms), 

lean,  lank,  tailer  than  it  is  thought  necessary  for  a  gentleman  to 

be.    Thatch  of  dun-colored  hair;  long  ears  bending  away  from 

his  head,  and  mismatched  eyes,  a  gray  one  and  a  blue. 

Great  financiers,   spectacular  figures  of  stage  and  screen, 
villagers,  musicians,  etc. 


HOLLYWl  >OD!  That  incomprehensible  Mecca  where  Main 
Street  is  the  Vanity  Fair  of  the  world;  where  fashion  and 
faces  are  the  alphabet  of  all  romance;  where  liveried  chauffeurs 
convey  human  jewels  in  glass  cases  and  youth  and  beauty  and 
fame  are  spent  like  a  drunken  man's  money! 

Of  course,  there  are  simple  things,  too.  Little  houses  where 
life  is  cut  by  sweet  old  patterns;  little  kitchens  in  the  morning — 
"I'm  late  again!    That  damned  alarm  doesn't  work!    Have  you 

32 


got  the  coffee  ready,  dear?  I  have  to  be  on  the  set  at  eight. 
The  baby  cried  a  lot  in  the  night,  didn't  he?  It  must  be  teeth. 
You  must  have  a  nurse  for  him!  When  we  get  the  house  paid 
for  and  get  your  new  Steinway,  the  very  next  thing  we  afford 
will  be  a  nurse,  sweetheart!  If  the  good  old  public  keeps  on 
thinking  I'm  a  hero,  I'll  get  a  raise  pretty  soon  and  the  first 
thing  we're  going  to  buy  is  a  nurse,  sweetheart!  Did  your  plum 
jell  set?  It  looks  great!-'  .  .  .  Red  glasses  in  a  row  on  the 
window  glowing  with  sunlight!  Warm,  tantalizing  smell  of 
coffee,  and  crisp  toast  and  hot  butter!  .  .  .  Flutter  of  pink 
gingham.  "The  paper  this  morning  says  you  were  'uw/derful  in 
'Blue  Jacket,' darling!  .  .  .  Let's  open  a  glass  of  the  new  jelly 
for  your  breakfast.  I  put  a  geranium  leaf  in  it  because  your 
mother  always  used  to.  .  .  .  Don't  crawl  under  daddy's  feet, 
Snookums!  Don't  untie  daddy's  shoe!  He's  in  a  hurry!  He 
has  to  go  to  work!"' 

But  the  cosy  little  houses,  the  cosy  little  kitchens,  the  cosy 
little  hurry  in  the  morning  to  be  at  work  by  eight,  damp 
gurgling  baby,  red  jelly  on  the  window  ledge;  these  are  not 
what  we  want  of  Hollywood!     London  means  fog,  the  Sahara 


From  behind  the 
palms  Johnny  Hav- 
ersmith,   just  a   cam- 
era   man,    watched 
Mary  Leeds  come  down- 
stairs to  meet  the  gentlemen 
celebrities  in  love  with  her 


By 

Dixie  Willson 


xpensive 


means  a  caravan.  Heaven  means  golden  slippers,  and  Holly- 
wood, by  popular  demand,  means  a  bazaar  of  lost  and  found 
Sensation;  pretense;  illusion;  fantasy;  intoxication;  love,  that 
must  be  no  more  than  thin  ice  on  the  brink  of  Hell  I 


IX  the  drawing  room  of  Madame  de  Longpre,  cigarette  smoke 
floated  on  a  rose  and  amber  mist.  With  wavering  bow-knots 
of  light,  the  candles  seemed  trying  to  tie  their  brackets  to  the 
walls.  Chiffon,  and  sequin,  and  velvet  ladies,  trailed  up  and 
down  the  stairs,  while  gentlemen  in  tuxedos  waited;  white 
boutonniires,  smart  little  waxed  moustaches. 

But  it  seemed  to  be  Mary  Leeds  for  whom  most  of  the  gentle- 
men waited!  Her  name  seemed  the  pin  upon  which  revolved 
all  their  conversation!  This  thing  and  that  thing  about  Mary 
Leeds  seemed  the  entire  tenor  of  their  interest!  An  obvious 
majority  of  the  gentlemen  present  appeared  to  be  bordering  on 
that  state  of  idiocy  called  'love."  and  the  extremely  beautiful 
person  who  came,  at  last,  hesitantly  downstairs,  smiling  with 
pretty  unsophisticated  consciousness  at  the  attention  trained 


upon  her,  seemed  immediately  the  answer 
to  the  impulse  and  desire  in  the  eyes  of 
fairly  all  that  little  sea  of  cavaliers! 
She  wore  while  lace  with  pastel  flo 
ivory  slippers,  no  jewels,  but  a  pair  of 
jade  bracelets,  above  her  elbows. 

In   the  shadows  of   the  conservatory, 
Johnny    Haversmith,    merely   a   camera- 
man,   waited    orders    from    Madame    de 
Longpre.    He  had  been  hired  for  the  pur- 
pose of  making  a  photograph  of  the  event. 
The  conservatory  adjoined  the  drawing 
room,   two  steps  down,   and   through   a 
wrought-iron  gate.     Its  tiled  floors  were  set  with  odd,  bright 
patterns.    Its  tub-trees  and  trellises  were  heavy  with  green  and 
sweet  with  tropical  moss  and  budding  flowers.     A  fountain 
played  silver  staccato  into  a  pool  where  lilies  floated  and  tad- 
poles hid  around  sprawling  roots.    A  flood  of  purple  shone  under 
the  water.    Candle-light  filtered  through  the  open  gate. 

And  from  behind  the  palms,  Johnny  Haversmith,  just  a 
cameraman,  watched  Mary  Leeds  come  downstairs  to  the 
gentlemen  celebrities  who  were  in  love  with  her.  The  mere 
cameraman  ran  his  hand  back  over  his  dun-colored  hair,  and 
poked  the  end  of  a  somewhat  shabby  necktie  inside  his  vest 

He  had  long  since  become  calloused  to  beauty.  Beauties  in 
the  picture  business  are  like  fish  in  the  sea! 

In  all  Hollywood,  there  was  only  one  beautiful  woman  coming 
down  a  stairway  into  the  arms  of  two  score  lovers,  who  could 
have  stirred  a  ripple  in  the  breast  of  Johnny  Haversmith.  But 
that  one  woman  was  little  Mary  Leeds!  The  only  woman  in 
the  world,  in  fact,  who  had  ever  stirred  a  ripple  in  his  heart  of 
any  kind  under  any  circumstani 

Too  often  Fate  seems  to  portion  her  heartaches  promiscu- 


ously  with  cruel  and  deliber- 
ate disregard  for  balance. 
Johnny  Haversmith's  heart- 
ache, since  the  first  day  he 
had  seen  that  little  girl  in  the 
rags  of  Limehouse,  had  been 
his  love  for  her!    A  hopeless, 
despairing  love,  since  he  had 
no   illusions!     He  knew  she 
counted  hundred  dollar  bills 
with  less  concentration  than 
he  counted  dimes!    He  knew 
she  could  have  her 
choice  of  almost  any 
love  and  name  and  for- 
tune  upon   which   she 
chose  to  smile  !    He 
knew  the  chances  were 
slim  and  feeble  that  she 
even  remembered  he 
was  alive! 

But  it  is  not  by  judg- 
ment or  reason  a  man's 
heart  beats  for  one 
woman!  Love  is  the 
most  mysterious  mag- 
net of  all!  The  steel 
pins  dangle,  knowing 
how  futile  it  is;  yet  they 
cannot  get  away! 

Johnny  Haversmith, 
behind  the  palms,  saw 
the  gentlemen  celebri- 
ties gobble  up  the  little 
girl  he  loved  —  their 
eyes  looking  into  hers 
as  his  longed  to  look — 
their  lips  saying  what 
his  longed  to  say! 

A  parrot  stepped  sagely  from  an  iron  ring  into  a  bamboo  tree, 
and  recommended  in  a  raucous  voice  that  God  should  save  the 
King! 

"And  some  of  the  rest  of  us!"  said  Johnny  Haversmith. 

He  lighted  a  cigarette — walked  to  the  tree,  and  blew  smoke 
up  the  vein  of  a  bamboo  leaf.  The  parrot,  with  solemn 
awkwardness,  came  down  and  hooked  himself  to  the  back  of 
Johnny's  neck,  cleverly,  so  no  possible  contortion  could  admit 
of  blowing  smoke! 

"  What  a  life, "  rasped  the  bird.  "Hell's  bells!  E  pluribus 
unuml " 

With  a  rustle  of  spangles,  a  little  noise  like  falling  rain, 
Madame  de  Longpre  came  around  the  wrought-iron  gate. 

"We're  almost  ready  now,"  she  said.    "We're  only  waiting 


for  Dorothy  Denver  and  Mr.  Dupont.  Don't 
let  Columbus  bother  you.  He  takes  such  violent 
fancies!  Now,  I'd  like  to  have  the  picture  with 
everybody  on  the  stairs  so  it  will  show  the 
beautiful  stairs  and  the  ivory  Buddha!  .  .  . 
Oh,  come  in,  Mary  my  love!  We're  just  talking 
about  taking  a  picture.  You're  simply  ravish- 
ing tonight!  Every  woman  here  will  despise 
you!    This  gentleman  is  going  to  take  a  picture. 

Miss  Leeds,  Mr. ,  I  really  don't  know  jour 

name." 

I  do,"  Mary  said,  laughing  up  at  tall  Johnny 
Haversmith.  "He's 
made  ten  million  feet 
of  me!"  She  picked  a 
fuchsia  from  a  trellis 
and  tucked  it  into  his 
buttonhole.  "I 
haven't  seen  you  for 
I 


ages 


Joh 


n  n  y 


"He  loves  you,"  the  gyp- 
sy said.  "He  is  not  hand- 
some. He  has  no  money." 


Where've  you  been? 
Somebody  told  me  you 
asked  to  go  on  another 
picture  when  I  started 
'Saints  and  Sinners.' 
Didvoureallv?" 

"Yes,"  he  said,  his 
eyes  devouring  her, 
starving  for  the  sight  of 
her.  "I  couldn't  stick 
to  my  job,  any  more, 
on  a  set  with  you!" 

"  Mercy!"  rippled 
Madame  de  Longpre, 
"what  a  temperamental 
camera  person!" 

"Quite!"  said  little 

Mary  Leeds.    "I'm 

surprised!" 

"I  hope  your  presence  tonight,  Mary,"  Madame  de  Longpre 

remarked,  "won't  make  it  impossible  for  him  to  remember  that 

the  point  of  the  picture  is  to  include  the  stairs  and  the  ivory 

Buddha!     Interviews  all  mention  the  stairs  and  the  ivory 

Buddha!" 

With  a  gesture  of  her  diamond-studded  lorgnette,  she  dis- 
missed any  necessity  for  further  recognition  of  Johnny  Haver- 
smith's presence. 

"And  Mary  I  promised  the  Prince  I'd  present  him  the  instant 
you  arrived!  He's  put  all  he's  going  to  say  to  you  into  an  epic 
or  canto  or  something  that  will  take  weeks  to  speak,  so  you'd 
better  let  him  get  started!  And  he's  so  rich,  my  love!  And  so 
determined  to  marry  you!  He's  even  sent  a  description  of  you 
in  bridal  pearls  and  ermine,  to    [  please  turn  to  pace  136  ] 


The  first  all-woman  cast  in  the  history  of  pictures!    This  is  the  galaxy  of  girls  Director  William  Beaudine 

has  been  directing  in  "The  Mad  Parade,"  a  story  of  women  in  the  World  War.    Reading  from  right  to  left — 

Evelyn  Brent,  Lilyan  Tashman,  Irene  Rich,  Louise  Fazenda,  Fritzi  Ridgeway,  Marcehne  Day,  June  Clyde 

and  Helen  and  Elizabeth  Keating.    A  fine  looking  company,  too ! 


Irene  Dunne  is 
glad  Photoplay 
found  out  she  had 
been  secretly 
married.  Here 
she  is  as  Sabra, 
her  glorious  role 
in  "Cimarron" 


rene  s 


Secret  Marriage 


IREXE  DUNNE,  Sabra  of  "Cimar- 
ron,'' is  the  wife  of  Dr.  F.  D.  Griffin, 
a  physician  of  New  York  City. 

To  tell  or  not  to  tell?  That  was  the  question  which 
worried  Irene  Dunne  when  Radio  Pictures  signed  her  on  a  long- 
term  contract,  following  her  forty  weeks  in  "Show  Boat,"  and 
brought  her  to  the  Coast  to  star  in  musical  pictures.  Somehow, 
no  one  had  ever  inquired  whether  she  was  married  or  single. 
When  she  was  on  Broadway,  it  hadn't  seemed  to  matter,  but 
when  she  came  into  pictures — 

There  was  a  long  family  discussion;  there  was  a  longer  pro- 
fessional argument  with  the  officials  of  Radio  Pictures.  The 
old  picture  idea,  you  know,  is:  "Marriage  hurts.  If  you  must 
marry  don't  tell  the  world  about  it."  Irene  had  been  told 
it  was  one  of  the  movie  commandments  and  decided  to  keep 
silent. 

It  really  didn't  matter  much  to  picture  fans,  either,  until  the 
present.  For  Irene  Dunne  was  just  a  name  until  "Cimarron" 
was  released  and  she  gave  the  picture  world  one  of  its  finest 
performances!  Musicals  died  on  the  screen  just  as  Irene  was 
born  to  them.  For  months  she  drew  salary  and  spent  her  time 
long-distancing  her  handsome,  famous,  far-away  husband. 

Then:  "Leathernecking."  We  won't  go  into  that.  It  was  a 
bad  picture— a  very  bad  picture  .  .  .  and  Irene  Dunne  had 
better  remained  unborn  to  the  screen,  perhaps,  than  to  make 
her  initial  appearance  in  it. 

Then — "Cimarron"!  And,  suddenly,  she  became  copy. 
Every  newspaper  in  Los  Angeles  rushed  to  interview  her.    But 


By  Ruth  Biery 


they  took  it  for  granted,  since  she  said 
nothing  whatever  about  it,  that  she  was 
single — so  didn't  even  ask  her  about  iL 
"And  the  funny  part  of  it  is — we've  been  married  for  nearly 
three  years.  And  the  best  part  of  it  all  is — we  are  happy.  Why, 
he's  been  out  here  three  times.  Came  by  aeroplane;  watched 
every  test  made  for  'Cimarron' — has  advised  me  on  every 
movement.  I  wouldn't  turn  a  hand  without  him.  Oh,  I'm 
glad,  glad  Photoplay  found  out  and  I  can  reallv  talk  about 
him!" 

They  were  married  in  New  York  City,  July  16,  1928,  and 
sailed  immediately  for  a  six  months'  honeymoon  in  Europe. 
She  had  just  finished  "The  City  Chap,"  a  stage  play,  with 
Dillingham. 

'T  EXPECTEDtogiveupmycareerentirely.  Myhusbandwas 
-L  then  opposed  to  the  stage.  He  felt  it  would  take  theonly  thing 
he  really  wanted  away  from  him  if  I  went  on  after  we  were 
married.  It's  strange  to  think  of  tlun  and  now.  Today,  he  is 
my  inspiration.  His  friends  in  New  York  can't  understand  it. 
He  talks  and  boosts  and  encourages  and  wants  his  wife's  career, 
just  as  he  used  to  fight  it." 

There  was  not  the  least  reason  for  Mrs.  Dr.  F.  D.  Griffin  to 
continue  working.  Her  husband  was  born  almost  next  door  to 
Calvin  Coolidge.  An  old,  ancestored  New  England  family. 
When  she  met  him,  he  was  a  bachelor  with  an  apartment  on 
Park  Avenue,  a  name  and  plenty  of  money.  They  met  before 
she  went  on  the  stage.    She  bad  [  please  tcrn  to  page  135  ] 

35 


Prof.  Albert  Einstein  and  his  host,  Charlie 
Chaplin,  at  the  Los  Angeles  opening  of  Charlie's 
"City  Lights."  Chaplin  was  the  one  man  in 
Hollywood  Einstein  wanted  to  meet.  Well,  he 
met  him — and  about  50,000  others,  too 


THEY  say  Professor  Einstein  was  trying  to  explain  his 
theory  to  a  big  studio  executive. 
".  .  .  for   instance,   consider   Betelgeuse,"   Einstein 
was  explaining.    "Betelgeuse,  one  of  the  greatest  stars 
in  the  whole  system,  can  be  photographed  merely  by  means  of 
one  ray  of  light  .  .  ." 

"Uh-huh,"  uh-huhed  the  executive.  Later  Einstein  went 
home. 

At  once,  the  executive  grabbed  a  telephone  and  called 
his  casting  director. 

"Say,  you,"  he  shouted,  "I  want  you  should  go  out  and  sign 
up  this  feller  Betelgeuse.  And  I  want  you  should  sign  him 
up  quick.  Einstein,  who  knows  everything,  says  he's  one  of 
the  greatest  stars  in  the  business. 

"And  economy! — hah,  lissen — we  can  shoot  him  with  only 
one  light,  Einstein  says!  !" 

30 


S'm 


stein 


/ 


11 


Hollywood 


At  the  Warner  Studio  the 
Einsteins  were  coaxed  into 
this  bouncing  car.  Cameras 
cranked,  tricksters  worked. 
Two  hours  later  the  guests 
received  a  film  of  themselves 
flivving  'round  the  world! 


He  can  comprehend 

the  Universe,  but  the 

picture  business  left 

him  dazed 


That  is  just  one  of  the  dozens  that  are  being  told — true  and 
otherwise  —  about  Einstein's  visit  to  the  moving  picture 
capital.  Queen  Victoria  in  a  tap-dancing  school  wouldn't  have 
been  half  as  out  of  place  as  Einstein  was  in  Hollywood. 

Now.  of  course.  Einstein  has  about  as  much  in  common  with 
Hollywood  as  maple  sugar  has  with  canned  salmon.  But 
Einstein,  being  human,  naturally  wanted  to  get  a  look  at  Holly- 
wood while  in  California.  And  Hollywood,  being  Hollywood, 
naturally  wanted  to  grab  off  the  lion's  share  of  the  unprec- 
edented publicity  Einstein  was  getting. 

AND  so  it  all  began — this  amazing  business  of  Einstein-in- 
Holly  wood,  as  soon  as  he  arrived  in  Pasadena.  The  purpose  of 
his  trip  of  course,  was  to  visit  the  famous  scientific  laboratories 
at  the  California  Institute  of  Technology  in  Pasadena,  twenty 
miles  from  Hollywood.  He  was  provided  with  a  bungalow, 
where,  it  was  assumed,  he  would  go  into  retirement  to  ponder 
on  the  vastnesses  of  the  universe. 

But  Hollywood  wouldn't  go  for  things  like  that!  To  let 
Kinstein  hide  away,  and  thereby  overlook  a  headline  like 
"EINSTEIN  VISITS  COLOSSUS  STUDIOS'-  was  not  in  any 
Hollywood  press-agent's  book  of  rules.    And  so  the  race  began. 

Universal  won. 

It  seems  that  "Uncle  Carl''  Laemmle,  bland  potentate  of 
Universal  City,  was  having  a  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of 
making  movies.  It  would  be  nice  to  have  a  lot  of  big  people 
there.  So  huddles  were  huddled  and  plans  were  planned,  and 
what  eventuated? — 

An  invitation   was  sent   to   Professor 
Einstein  in  Pasadena.    Would  he  care  to  r\  T  J 

see  the  famous  film  "All  Quiet  on  the  -D  y    ±1  il  /' 


The  celebration  of  Carl  Laemmle's  twenty-fifth  anni- 
versary in  pictures  was  on,  and  Einstein  unwittingly 
helped  the  party.  "You  tell  mc  about  relativity?"  is 
what  Hollywood  thinks  Mr.  Laemmle  is  saying,  refer- 
ring to  his  relatives  on  the  Universal  lot 


Western  Front"?  Einstein's  a  famous  pacifist,  by  the  way. 
And  having  heard  much  about  "All  Quiet"  and  its  force  for 
peace,  Kinstein  innocently  said  yes. 

Fine,  said  Universal  right  back  at  him,  we'll  have  a  showing 
for  you  on  such-and-such  a  day.  Well,  such-and-such  a  day 
was  the  day  of  the  anniversary  celebration.  And  then,  invita- 
tions were  sent  broadcast  through  filmland  to  come  on  over  to 
Universal  on  such-and-such  a  day — Laemmle's  twenty-fifth 
Anniversary  and  Einstein  as  attractions. 

Did  it  work5 

Well,  even  Queen  Mary  was  there — Mary  Pickford.  So  was 
Gary  Cooper,  in  his  eye-paining  yellow-and-green  open  car. 
even  though  it  rained  that  day.  Will  Ropers  came.  Executives 
from  all  the  other  studios  were  there.  Filmland  turned  out  en 
masse  to  see  Einstein.  And  the  most  surprised  person  of  all  was 
Einstein!  He  expected  to  see  a  moving  picture.  Instead,  he 
saw  countless  scores  of  movie  celebrities  he  didn't  know,  plus 
countless  Laemmle  relatives.  "  There  were  so  many  rclati . 
said  one  person  there,  "that  you  couldn't  get  to  the  buffet 
luncheon  table!  "  And  that's  the  beginning  of  the  famous  crack 
about  what  Laemmle  might  have  said  to  Einstein: 

"'What!     You're  telling  me  about  relativity?" 

It  was  at  the  Einstein  visit  to  Universal  that  the  famous 
Mary  Pickford  episode  happened.    Celeb- 
rity   after    celebrity    was   introduced    to 
-  i'      T      i  l)  rr         Einstein. 

J        1— i  d  fl  g  Among        [  PLEASE  TURN"  TO  PAGE   142  ] 


The  Most  Romantic  Love 


IThey  met  on  the  set  where  they  were  making  "7th 
Heaven."  that  tender  love  story  that  was  to  touch  the 
hearts  of  millions — and  make  the  boy  and  girl  great  stars.  He 
was  tall,  handsome,  and  twenty-two — she  was  little,  winsome, 
and  twenty.  Making  one  of  the  loveliest  of  love  stories,  Janet 
Gaynor  and  Charles  Farrell  fell  in  love.  They  became  Diane 
and  Chico  to  the  world,  and  to  each  other.  Janet  broke  her 
engagement  to  Herbert  Moulton,  the  Los  Angeles  newspaper 
man  who  had  helped  her  on  the  hard  road  upward. 


2  Rumors  of  the  engagement  of  Janet  and  Charlie  flew  faster 
when  they  played  opposite  each  other  in  "Street  Angel." 
How  happy  they  were!  Their  boy-and-girl  romance  was  in  full 
flower — this  picture  shows  them  in  their  happiest  sweetheart 
days.  But  no  announcement  was  forthcoming.  Why,  asked 
the  world?  For  here  was  a  romance  the  fans  actually  wanted  to 
see  consummated.  Thousands  of  letters  poured  in  approving 
the  romance  the  picture  world  had  seen  begin  in  "  7th  Heaven" 
and  flower  in  "Street  Angel."  But  the  youngsters  were  just 
happy  in  their  work  and  affection  for  each  other. 


3  The  answer  to  the  question  of  "Why  don't  Janet  and 
Charlie  get  married?  "  was  undoubtedly  Virginia  Valli.  She 
and  Farrell  had  been  pals  since  his  earliest  days  in  pictures. 
She  always  loved  him  in  a  thoroughly  unselfish  way  and  was 
friend,  advisor  and  critic.  Charlie's  nature  is  something  like 
Virginia's.  She  had  devoted  weeks  to  helping  him  plan  his 
home  at  Toluca  Lake.  During  this  period  of  home-making, 
Charlie  saw  more  of  Virginia  than  of  Janet.  Two  girls  in  love 
with  the  same  boy — that  was  Hollywood's  verdict. 


38 


Story  in  Film  History 


4  "Lucky  Star"  gave  Chico  back  to  Diane  in  pictures.  Word 
circulated  that  Janet  and  Charlie  were  to  be  married  any 
day.  Charlie  was  to  tell  Virginia.  Hollywood  prepared  con- 
gratulations. Then,  without  warning,  Janet  rushed  to  Oakland 
and  married  Lydell  Peck,  rich  young  San  Francisco  society 
man.  What  had  happened?  The  story  was  that  Charlie  had 
gone  to  call  on  Virginia,  that  Janet,  piqued,  had  wired  Peck  her 
acceptance  of  his  proposal.  They  were  married  September  1 1, 
1929.    Hollywood  was  amazed. 


5  "Sunny  Side  Up"  brought  them  together  again  in  pictures 
— but  Janet  was  Mrs.  Lydell  Peck  now.  Then  came 
"High  Society  Blues."  and  Janet's  flight  from  the  Fox  lot. 
There  was  the  episode  of  her  trip  to  Honolulu,  with  Charlie 
accidentally  boarding  the  same  boat,  and  beating  a  hasty 
retreat.  Janet  cried!  Ten  heart-breaking  months  away  from 
the  studio.  And  then  a  glamorous  return  in  "The  Man  Who 
Came  Back."  Who,  seeing  Charlie  and  Janet  together  in  that 
picture,  could  doubt  that  the  youngsters  were  still  the  best  of 
friends?    Again  the  world  wondered  about  Janet  and  Charlie! 


z:  Then  came  the  sudden  death  of  Charlie's  mother.  It  hit 
"  him  pretty  hard.  Photoplay  announced  that  Virginia  and 
he  were  to  be  married,  and  sure  enough,  when  Charlie  got  a 
vacation  and  time  for  a  honeymoon  they  sailed  for  the  Mediter- 
ranean, man  and  wife.  They  were  married  in  New  Vork  a  few 
days  before  sailing.  And  a  happier  pair  of  kids  never  leaned 
over  a  ship's  rail  and  waved  farewell.  If  you  believe  in  as- 
trology, ask  the  stars.  Janet  was  born  October  6,  under  the 
sign  of  Libra.     The  romance  of  Janet  and  Charlie — not  to  be! 


30 


Love,  Marriage  and  Divorce 


True  love  in  Hollywood. 

Totty  and  Teddy  are 

tiffing  over  a  little  matter 

of  close-up  stealing 


JUST  as  Charlie  Farrell  and  Virginia  Yalli,  as  happy  a 
pair  of  newly  weds  as  the  ship  news  reporters  ever  saw, 
sailed  for  Europe,  Charlie  said  to  a  Photoplay  writer: 
"Well,  we  made  good  for  your  old  book,  didn't  we?" 
He  was  referring  to  Photoplay's  announcement  of  their 
intention  to  wed,  published  several  months  ago. 

It  will  do  the  old  Mediterranean  good  to  see  such  genuine 
happiness,  and  the  good  wishes  of  millions  are  with  them. 


Irene  Dunne,  the  superb  Sabra  of  "Cimarron,"  is  married  to 
Dr.  F.  D.  Griffin,  a  New  York  physician — and  very  happily, 
too!  Photoplay  discovered  this  true  love  story  when  all  Holly- 
wood's other  smart  reporters  had  gone  along  assuming  she  was 
single  and  in  circulation.  The  whole  story  of  Irene's  adven- 
turous stage  career,  her  romance  and  her  marriage  will  be  found 
on  another  page  of  this  issue. 


WELL,  as  far  as  little  Loretta  Young  is  concerned,  it  looks 
like  another  clear-cut  case  of  "Mother  Knew  Best." 

Married  at  seventeen,  will  she  be  separated  permanently  at 
eighteen,  and  divorced  before  she's  twenty?  Her  marriage  to 
big,  good-looking  Grant  Withers  has  gone  to  pot — at  least 
Hollywood  thinks  so.  He's  eight  years  older  than  Loretta. 
He'd  been  married  before,  and  had  been  a  romantic  figure  in 
the  lives  of  others.     And  there  are  other  factors,  too. 

When  Loretta  didn't  rush  to  his  side  when  Grant  was  re- 
ported operated  on  for  appendicitis  in  Chicago,  people  won- 
dered. When  he  was  back  on  the  stage  ten  days  after  the 
operation,  they  wondered  still  more.  It's  food  for  thought. 

Well,  when  you  read  this  Loretta  may  be  home  with  her 
mother  and  sisters — Sally  Blane  and  Polly  Ann  Young. 

Though  she  tried  her  darndest  to  prevent  the  marriage, 
mother  hasn't  yet  said,  "Well,  Loretta,  I  told  you  so!  Re- 
member, mother  knows — " 


The  great  question,  asked  ten  million  times,  "Can  the  Jack 
Gilbert-Ina  Claire  marriage  last?"  has  been  answered. 
It  couldn't   last — and   hasn't. 


Happy  days  are  here  again!     The  nice  old  judgie 
tells  them  they're  free  once  more 


When  Ina  arrived  in  Hollywood  not  long  ago,  Gilbert  had 
taken  to  the  High  Sierras.  His  wife  waited  hours  for  some 
message  from  him.  None  came.  Then  she  gave  this  state- 
ment to  the  press — 

"Mr.  Gilbert  and  I  have  agreed  to  separate.  Any  difficulties 
or  misunderstandings  we  may  have  had  are  probably  as  much 
my  fault  as  his.  I  did  not  want  to  discuss  my  personal  life  at 
this  time,  but  owing  to  the  fact  that  I  have  recently  been  mis- 
quoted, I  feel  it  only  fair  and  more  comfortable  for  Mr.  Gilbert, 
myself  and  our  friends  to  stop  all  further  evasions." 

Jack  and  Ina  were  married  in  Las  Vegas,  Nevada,  in  Mav, 
1929.  Not  long  after  their  marriage  they  set  up  separate 
establishments. 

In  1929  Jack  was  at  the  height  of  his  fame,  and  Ina  just 
trying  to  break  into  the  Hollywood  hit  class.  Now  his  glory 
is  in  eclipse  and  Ina,  on  the  strength  of  her  hit  in  "The  Royal 
Family,"  has  a  five-year  contract  with  Samuel  Goldwyn. 

And  that,  children,  is  Life,  with  a  capital  L! 


HERE'S  the  most  involved  and  hectic  "love  story"  of  the 
Hollywood  month — 

That  of  Edwina  Booth,  Duncan  Renaldo  and  Mrs.  Renaldo! 

Not  long  after  Renaldo  and  Edwina  came  back  from  the 
long  "Trader  Horn"  location  trip  to  Africa,  Mrs.  Renaldo 
slapped  a  S50.000  alienation  suit  on  Miss  Booth. 

Edwina  denied  everything  under  oath,  and  asked  the  courts 
to  annul  her  marriage  to  Director  Arthur  Schuck. 

Renaldo  was  clapped  into  jail  on  charges  of  illegal  entry 
into  this  country,  obtaining  his  release  on  S2,000  bail  just  in 
time  to  attend  the  "Trader  Horn"  opening  in  Hollywood. 
He  and  Edwina  went  to  the  theater  widely  separated,  and 
each  was  escorted  by  police  in  plain-clothes. 


in  Hollywood- /A /j  Month 


Hurray!    "The  law  says  we're  single  again, 
we  can  be  good  Hollywood  pals!" 


Now 


What  a  maze  of  lawsuits,  bitter  charges  and  stout  denials! 
Where  does  love-  even  under  an  African  moon — come  in? 


EVERYONE  in  town  is  taking  a  look  at  the  ring  Clara  Bow 
her  current  boy  friend.  Rex  Bell!     My  dear! 
platinum,  with  five  diamonds  that  grade  up  to  one  of 
two  and  a  half  carats.     In  the  band  is  engraved  a  heart,  and 
in  the  center  of  the  heart,  the  word  "it."     Also,  "To  darling 

Rex  from  Clara." 

*     *     * 

William  Powell  opines  he  is  going  on  a  long  cruise  in  Mexican 
waters  between  his  last  picture  for  Paramount  and  his  first 
for  Warners — if  he  can  get  "the  right  girl"  to  cruise  along  with 
him! 

That  means  Carole  Lombard,  the  Paramount  leading  woman. 
And  Hill's  very  frank  about  saying  he  wants  her  to  marry 
him.  No  statement  from  the  lady  yet,  but  it  looks  like  the 
real  thing.     She  calls  him  "Junior"— he  calls  her  "Baby." 

And  the  love-birds  of  Hollywood  go  "tweet-tweet!" 


Marriage  a  la  film  colony.     "I 

saw  you  wink  at  that  extra,  you 

brute,  you!" 


Junior  Laemmle  of  Universal  and  Sidney  Fox,  the 
girl  his  company  just  brought  from  Broadway.  She's 
just  four  feet,  ten— vivacious,  brunette  ami  very  young. 


Oh  yes,  and  Jean  Harlow  of  the  platinum  locks  is  being 

squired  about  by  Paul  Bern,  supervisor  and  director. 

Jean*s  just  got  her  divorce  from  Charles  F.    McGrew,   II. 

Chicago   broker.     She  married  him  in    1927,    when  she    was 

sixteen.    She  rates  a  house  in  Beverly,  a  car  and  the  income 

from  a  $200,000  trust  fund. 

*     *     * 

Here's  true  love! 

Norman  Foster  has  been  toiling  at  Taramount's  Hollywood 
studio  while  his  pretty  wife,  Claudette  Colberi.  has  labored  at 
the  Long  Island  plant.  Not  long  ago  both  the  young  folks 
had  a  little  time  off.  So  the.*  boarded  trains  and  spent  a  few- 
happy  days  together — in  Chicago. 


SPEAKING  of  love  and  its  consequences — 
Kathlyn  Williams,  once  the  greatest  of  serial  film  stars, 
has  divorced  her  long-time  husband,  Charles  l'.yton,  in  Reno. 

Still  friends,   both  say Mice  Day,   who  is   Mrs    Jack 

Cohn,  expects  in  April.  .  .  .  Lew  Ayres  and  Lola  Lane  still 
going  together,  though  Joan  Bennett  has  been  noted  with 
Lew  now  and  again.  Incidentally,  Joan  and  John  Considine, 
executive,  aren't  the  Pot  Pals  any  more.  Considine  and  his 
former  fiancee.  Carmen  Pantages,  are  reported  Best  Pals  again. 
Lackaday!  .  .  .  Hollywood  is  shocked  at  the  separation  of 
Director  Cieorge  Hill  and  his  scenario-writing  wife,  Frances 
Marion — the  team  that  wrote  and  directed  "The  Big  House." 


CONST  WTI.Y  seen  together— 
Cdoria   Swanson — dividing   her   time   between   scenarist 
Gene  Markey  and  composer  Oeorge  Gershwin. 

The  Marquis  de  la  (Hank  |  Falaise  and  Connie  Bennett.  This 
seems  to  be  a  very  genuine  article. 

Marguerite  Churchill  and  Eddie  Grainger,  son  of  Vice  Presi- 
dent James  R.  Grainger  of  Fox  and  himself  a  supervisor  on  that 
lot.  Eddie  was  attracted  by  pictures  of  her  he  saw  in  the  pub- 
licity department.     He  met  the  lady. 

P.  S.    He's  building  a  new  home  in  Beverly  FIUIs. 


When  Doug  left  Mary  to  go  on  his  trip  to  the  Orient,  the 
usual  divorce  denials  came  from  both  parties.  One  thing  is 
sure,  they  are  not  playing  the  ideal  married  couple  gag  any 
longer.    It  must  have  been  quite  tiresome  to  both. 


John   Wayne,  engaged   to  a   dark-haired   South   American 
beauty,  seems  to  like  blonde  Virginia  Cherrill,  too. 


And  Garbo  still  hasn't  a  steady 


41 


Girl  novelist  turns  actress  ! 
Carman  Barnes,  who  wrote  a 
novel  called  "Schoolgirl"  when 
she  was  fifteen,  is  now  playing  in 
one  of  her  own  stories  at  the 
Paramount  Studios 

WELL,  did  Edna  know  Best? 
Something  new  in  the  history  of 
Hollywood  has  happened.  A  leading 
lady  walked  off  the  set  of  a  big  picture — be- 
cause she  was  homesick  and  afraid  she  wouldn't 
make  good ! 

They  were  ready  to  shoot  the  first  scenes  of 
"Cheri-Bibi,"  Jack  Gilbert's  new  picture,  at 
Metro.  But  no  leading  lady!  Edna  Best, 
one  of  the  most  famous  young  leading  women 
of  the  English  stage,  and  ready  for  the  role, 
had  departed — leaving  no  message. 

The  troupe  was  flabbergasted. 

Suddenly  a  wire,  dated  Needles,  Ariz.,  was 
handed  to  director  John  Robertson. 

It  read — 

"I  am  on  my  way  back  to  London.  I  am 
awfully  homesick,  and  besides,  I  am  just 
afraid  I  wouldn't  be  good  in  the  picture." 

An  inferiority  complex,  said  officials.  Edna 
sped  Eastward.  And  Leila  Hyams  stepped 
into  the  role. 

•L_T<>LL\  WOOD'S  happy  to  see  Tommy 
-*-  -*-Meighan  again,  after  a  couple  of  years  in 
retirement. 

For  Thomas  has  come  back  to  pictures. 
He'll  make  his  reappearance  in  "Young  Sin- 
ners," in  which  Dorothy  Jordan  will  play  the 
leading  role. 

Meighan  has  been  living  happily  on  his 
Florida  estate,  but  the  camera  called  too 
loudly. 

"After  all.  a  fellow  can  play  just  so  much 
golf  and  tennis  and  spend  so  much  time 
managing  his  belongings,"   Tommy  told   me 


Have  you  met  Butch' s  Missus?  Ladies  and  gentlemen,  this  is  Mrs. 
Wallace  Beery,  accompanied  by  her  large  and  talented  husband,  as 
they  looked  at  the  Hollywood  opening  of  "Trader  Horn."  Wally 
acted  as  master  of  ceremonies  to  thunderous  applause.  Beery's 
first  wife,  you  recall,  was  Gloria  Swanson 


York 


The    Monthly 


Hollywood 


on  his  way  to  Hollywood.  "Then  a  man's 
got  to  do  something,  or  simply  blow  up." 

So  Thomas  Meighan,  a  favorite  of  ours  for 
many  years,  is  coming  back  to  us!  He 
was  like  the  old  fire  horse — he  heard  the  bell 
again,  and  off  to  Hollywood  he  rushed.  Another 
case  of   once   a    trouper,   always  a   trouper. 

"HNORIS  KENYON  agreed  to  make  one  pic- 
-*— 'ture  for  First  National  but  before  it  was 
completed  they  had  signed  her  for  the  lead  in 
the  next  Arliss  picture  in  the  part  of  Lady 
Hamilton,  and  following  that  she  will  have  the 
lead  with  Walter  Huston.  This  will  take  her 
right  up  to  the  time  of  her  departure  for 
Europe  in  May.  She  was  offered  a  long  term 
contract  but  insisted  on  the  European  trip  for 
study. 

JUST  as  we  go  to  press  we  learn  that,  on  the 
advice  of  a  Hollywood  soothsayer,  Marian 
Marsh's  older  sister,  Jeanne  Morgan, has 


changed  her  name  to  Gene  Fenwick.  Within 
three  days  she  landed  a  good  job  with  First 
National. 

HOLLYWOOD'S  newest  Cinderella  is 
■*■  -*-Carman  Dee  Barnes,  eighteen-year  old 
writer  who  ground  out  a  story  called  "School- 
girl" when  she  was  fifteen. 

Last  fall  she  went  west  for  Paramount  to 
write.  Now  she's  to  play  the  leading  role  in  a 
story  written  by  herself. 

She's  reported  to  have  said  that  she  is  a 
little  shy  of  pictures  because  she  has  to  write 
down  to  her  audiences! 

This,  from  a  kid  writer  of  frenzied  flapper 
fiction. 

Are  we  allowed  a  small  chuckle,  or  a  modest 
guffaw?     Sure! 

HTALLULAH    BANKHEAD,    Paramount's 

*■  latest  stage  recruit,  now  playing  opposite 

Clive  Brook  in  "New  York  Lady"  at  the  Long 


The  makers  of  four  winners  of  the  PHOTOPLAY  Gold  Medal  have 
lunch  on  the  Fox  lot  with  Director  Frank  Lloyd.  They've  all  been 
working  at  Fox.  Left  to  right— Lloyd;  Henry  King,  director  of  the 
silent  "Tol'able  David,"  John  Ford,  of  "Four  Sons,"  and  Frank 
Boncage,  who  made  "Humoresque"  and  "7th  Heaven" 


A 


nnouncing 


Broadcast    of 


G 


oings 


-On/ 


Island  Studio,  had  been  pretty  much  wrought 
up  over  her  first  talking  picture. 

The  executives  had  an  attack  of  nerves  also. 
They'd  been  watching  Tallulah  pretty  closely 
to  see  how  she  was  making  out. 

In  the  midst  of  a  particularly  trying  morn- 
ing  Mr.  Zukor  himself  walked  on  the  set  and 
proceeded  to  watch.  This  was  too  much  for 
Tallulah.  She  screamed  at  Mr.  Zukor  to 
leave  and  with  a  thousand  apologies  the 
president  of  the  company  walked  meekly  out. 

T-TAROLD  LLOYD  had  his  first  look  at 
-*•  •*•  Harold  Lloyd  Junior  through  Junior's  glass 
incubator  wall. 

"He's  got  a  turned-up  nose,"  was  Lloyd's 
first  comment. 

Gone  Hollywood  early! 

At  this  writing,  Harold,  Jr.,  seems  to  be 
doing  right  well. 

The  youngster  gains  a  few  ounces  right 
along.     He  weighed  less  than   three  pounds 


when  he  was  bom,  having  made  his  bow  to 
the  world  about  two  months  before  he  was 
expected. 

A  LOS  ANGELES  newspaper 
printed  the  following  advertise- 
ment recently: 

"Young  lady,  30,  thoroughly  ex- 
perienced, offers  $100  bonus  to  any- 
one securing  her  position  as  secretary 
to  movie  star." 

Evidently  a  lot  of  them  think  Daisy 
De  Voe  had  a  great  time! 


N 

Jr- 


ORMA  SHEARER,  actress,  doesn't  talk 
about    her    new    son,    Irving    Thalberg, 


That's  not  her  idea  of  publicity. 

But  Norma  Shearer,  mother,  can't  help  it. 
She's  that  fond  and  proud  of  the  baby. 

"He  weighs  sixteen  pounds  now,"  says 
Xorma.    "Yes — his  nose  is  exactly  like  mine, 


Well,  here's  Tallulah  Bankhead 
telling  the  movie  world  she  hopes 
we  like  her  first  talkie,  "New 
York  Lady."  She's  home  again 
after  eight  big  years  on  the  stage 
in  London 

turned  up  at  the  end.  And  it  seems  to  me 
he's  a  born  comedian!" 

And  when  you  see  Norma,  you'll  realize 
what  motherhood's  done  for  her.  In  "Strangers 
May  Kiss"  you'll  find  her  more  beautiful  than 
ever — if  that's  possible! 

"CI!  I  DORSAY  has  been  spanked  and  sent 
*-  to  bed  without  her  caviar  and  truffles. 

Fox  was  plenty  sore  about  the  stunt  Fifi's 
personal  press  agent  put  over.  You  remember 
she  was  reported  involuntarily  shanghaied  on 
a  liner  bound  for  the  Canal  Zone. 

This  cunning  little  thought  caused  Fox,  put 
in  bad  with  the  press,  to  take  Fiti's  name  off 
all  advertising  copy  for  "Mr.  Lemon  of 
Orange,"  and  to  keep  her  idle  for  a  while  as 
punishment.  And  the  Associated  Press  de- 
clared it  micht  never,  NEVER  carry  her 
name  on  its  wires  again! 

TTRAGEDY  follows  Man-  Nolan.  It  scenv. 
*•  as  if  that  girl  just  can't  cct  a  break  or 
won't  take  'em  when  they  come.  A  little 
over  a  year  ago  she  was  considered  one  of  the 
St  embryonic  stars  on  the  film  horizon. 
She  had  all  the  stuff  of  which  stars  are  made — 
beauty,  emotion,  glamour,  acting  ability  and 
a  certain  basic  mystery.  But  what  has  hap- 
pened to  her  now? 

After  five  months  of  illness  she  was  slated 
to  begin  "The  Up  and  L'p"  for  Universal. 
The  picture  has  been  postponed  for  a  few 
more  weeks.  And.  although  she's  drawn  a 
good  salary  the  girl  is  pretty  near  broke — 
financially.      Her    illnesses    have,    of   course, 


Tune    in,    folks,    on    Cal    York's 


taken  much  of  her  money  but  besides  this  she 
lives  extravagantly. 

She  ha>  not  learned  to  deny  herself  any- 
thing that  she  really  wants. 

Unable  to  manage  herself,  she  is  invari- 
ably the  victim  of  bad  management  from 
others. 

THEN  there's  the  Hollywood  man- 
about-town  who  remarked  after 
seeing  Edwina  Booth  in  her  native 
costume  in  "Trader  Horn":  "I  can't 
blame  the  tsetse  fly  for  wanting  to 
bite  her." 

GAR  BO  is  still  Hollywood's  champeen 
walker. 

Xot  long  ago  she  hiked,  alone,  around  the 
edge  of  Arrowhead  Lake — some  forty  miles. 

Then  Gene  Markey.  scenarist  and  Ina 
Claire's  ex-beau,  accepted  a  lunch-hour  bid 
to  walk  with  the  Swedish  star.  She  took  him 
250  times  around  a  big  sound  stage  at  a  fast 
clip. 

Gene  broke  down  and  had  to  go  home.  But 
Greta  just  took  a  drink  of  water  and  went 
back  to  work  on  the  set! 

HOLLYWOOD: 
The  other  day,  a  cinema  trade  paper 
reporter    was    shooed    off    the    Universal    set 
whereon  Jean  Harlow,  the  super-heated  "hell's 
angel"  was  working. 

He  wanted  to  know  why. 

".Miss  Harlow  is  insufficiently  clad,"  he  was 
told,  "to  permit  visitors  on  the  set." 

Bui: 

The    "insufficiently  clad"    outfit    was    the 


Look!  It's  Skippy!  Needing  a 
youngster  to  play  the  great  little 
hero  of  Percy  Crosby's  comic 
strip,  Paramount  raided  "Our 
Gang"  and  came  away  with 
Jackie  Cooper 


u 


very  dress  in  which  she  was  being  shot  for  the 
picture! 

I'.  S. — Production  was  held  up  two  days 
during  the  shooting.  Miss  Harlow  had  a  cold 
in  her  cht 

OCR  Dietrich-Garbo  story  intimating  that 
Marlene  should  not  be  called  a  Garbo 
copy-cat  and  should  be  given  a  grtat  big 
hand  on  her  own  beauty  and  personality, 
stirred  up  a  storm  of  mail. 

The  writers,  almost  to  a  man  and  maid, 
agreed — even  though  they  were  avowed  Garbo 
partisans. 

"  Live  and  let  live, "  was  the  motto.  Holly- 
wood's big  enough  to  hold  two  glamorous 
gals  from  overseas. 

Incidentally,  when  Dietrich  gets  settled  in 
America  again  after  her  Kuropean  vacation, 
she  may  ask  to  work  at  the  Long  Island  Para- 
mount Studio.  Marlene's  no  lover  of  Holly- 
wood. She  once  told  reporters  in  Chicago  that 
the  sunshine  of  Hollywood  is  too  powerful  and 
consistent — in  her  own  words,  "It  burns  your 
brains  out!'' 

This  would  probably  mean  that  Joe  Von 
Sternberg,  her  director,  would  go  East  to 
work  with  her.  And  Greta  3,000  miles  away. 
That's  2,980  miles  farther  than  Sheridan  was 
from  the  Battle  of  Winchester! 

HpHE  whole  film  world  was  saddened  by  the 
*■  death  of  Louis  Wolheim. 

The  brilliant  character  leading  man  passed 
away  as  the  result  of  his  efforts  to  fit  himself 
for  the  role  of  the  managing  editor  in  the  fa- 
mous newspaper  comedy,  "The  Front  Page," 
now  being  made  by  Howard  Hughes.  The  part 
had  always  been  played  by  a  slender  man,  and 
Wolheim  reduced  from  190  to  160  pounds  in 
three  weeks.  Weakened  by  self-denial,  he 
became  ill  and  died  after  an  operation.  We 
shall  miss  Wolheim — one  of  the  finest  actors 
of  the  American  stage  and  screen. 


JOHN"  GILBERT,  John  Loder  and  Johnny 
J  Farrow,  scenario  writer,  were  lying  on  the 
sands  at  Malibu  Beach.  A  girl  whom  har- 
row knew  came  along,    farrow  introduced  her. 

"I  know  this  is  John  Loder,  all  right,  but 
this  other  man  is  not  John  Gilbert. " 

•Why?"  asked  .Mr.  Gilbert. 

"  I  just  know  it." 

"Is  it  because  I  shaved  my  moustache?  I 
had  to  do  that  for  a  picture. " 

"No."    The  young  lady  hesitated. 

John  persisted. 

"Well — I  know  because  even  your  voice 
doesn't  sound  like  John  Gilbert. " 

John  turned  toward  his  companions  with  a 
wry  grin.  "That's  the  way  M-G-M  seems  to 
feel  about  it. " 

A  HOLLYWOOD  extra  girl,  says 
Variety,  was  suing  a  director  for 
a  Rolls-Royce  he  promised  her. 

But  the  director  filed  a  counter- 
suit. 

So  she  settled  for  an  Austin. 

IS  the  "star  system,"  with  its  big  money  and 
its  race  for  names,  going  to  flourish  in  Holly- 
wood as  never  before? 

Xow  that  the  Warner  raid  on  the  Paramount 
star  stockade  is  history,  news  of  the  salaries 
the  boys  and  girls  are  said  to  be  slated  for  is 
startling. 

Ruth  Chatterton's  Warner  contract,  which 
goes  into  effect  next  October,  is  said  to  call  for 
something  like  $20,000  a  week,  though  written 
on  a  so-much-per-picture  basis.  Bill  Powell's 
gilt-edged  document  is  said  to  be  for  $175,000 
a  picture. 

But  Kay  Francis  really  got  the  most 
astonishing  raise. 

From  the  $750  a  week  she  was  reported  get- 
ting at  Paramount,  she  is  said  to  be  promised 
S2.750  a  week  on  the  Warner  lot,  with  star- 
dom specified  the  second  year. 


Well,  does  the  gentleman  at  the  right  look  like  the  gentleman  in 
the  frame?  Universal  spent  weeks  finding  the  man  to  double  for 
President  Hoover  in  a  sequence  of  "Fires  of  Youth."  They  picked 
Tom  Jensen,  a  Los  Angeles  cop.  And  after  all  that,  we  hear,  Tom's 
now  just  a  face  on  the  cutting  room  floor 


Holly  w  o  o  d     Statin  n —  N-K-W-S 


In  addition,  Rowland  V.  Lee,  formerly  Pan 
mount,  has  been  signed  to  direct  foi  Warners 
ISO  a  week,    And  Edward  G.  Robinson. 
after  his  n*nMti"n«l  hit  in  "Little  Caesar, 

>.ti.!,  w ill  bring  bin 
$lix),(xx)  by  next  O  tober. 

All  of   which   is  what   is  now   known  as  im- 

portant  money,  and  certainly  a  hard  nud 
the  merry  old  overhead. 

E\  ER  since  Warner  Pros  signed  up  a  dock 
of  Paramount  stars,  Hollywood  has  been 

all  a  l,'.il;  about  it. 

N  •  1 — Visitor  to  Warner  lot  sees  new 
building  being  erected.  Asks  •What's  that?" 
"<)h,"  replies  guide,  "that's  the  Paramount 
dressing  rooms. " 

No    -'      Paramount  called  off  the 

tion  Ruth  Chatterton  was  to  have  had  and  an- 
nounced it  will  make  three  Chatterton  pic- 
tures before  her  contract  is  up  in  (  )ctobcr  when 
she  goes  to  Warners.  "  Nothing  like  a  Warner 
.it  to  speed  up  Paramount  production,'' 
j;rins  a  gagster. 

> — Tiny  say  Warners  are  trying  to 
tigD  up  Leo,  the  M  ( .  \|  lion. 

AT  a  recent  tea  party  Yvonne  Yallec.  Wife 

"*of  Chevalier,  and  Hetty  Bronson,  of  "  Peter 

Pan  "  fame,  got  into  a  friendly  argument.   Both 

being  tiny  K'r's.  they  disputed  over  who  was 
the  taller. 

At  last  they  stood  back  to  back  and  Maurice 
did  the  measuring. 

■  1  nctly  the  same  height,"  said  Chevalier, 
"but  I  think  I'll  keep  the  one  I  have!" 

W7'    Ultv  ''"  ^■1''l'rnr''  "hen  we  heard  that 
*»    Mary  Curr-  -"  Mother "  Mary— had  been 
forced  to  go  into  bankruptcy. 

Things  have  broken  badly  with  her  for  a 
long  time.  Her  husband,  W.  C.  Carr,  is  a  scmi- 
invalid,  and  most  of  her  six  children  are  de- 
pendent on  her  for  support. 


And  there  hasn't  been  much  work 
for  the  Kr'"'d  old  lady  of  pictures,  who 
been  in   the  studios  since    1909.     Creditor, 
ed  tor  paymenl 

So   Mary   l.ur   took   the  only   possible   way 

out 

She  filed  a  petition  in  bankruptcy,  listing 
her  liabilities  at  over  $12,000-  and  her  I 
.it  $165. 

Remember  "Over  the  Hill"? 

"p\  \l    ',     DeVOI       its    in   a    cell    in    the    Los 
■*— •'Angeles  County  jail,  no  doubt  meditating 

on  the  perils  of  being  set  retary  to  s  mo\  ie  >tar. 

Clara  Bow's  ex  helper,  companion  and  play- 
mate must  report  to  a  probation  officer  for 

three  years  and  a  half  after  her  eighteen-month 

jail  sentence  runs  out. 

So  the  famous  case  of  Bow-De  VOO-doUgh  is 

closed, 

(Lira  making  ".Kick  In,"  the  W'illard  M.uk 
play,  into  a  talkie.  Daisy  in  the  jauhouse, 
and  the  public  fed  rij,dit  up  to  the  chin  with 

the  whole  busini 

DID  you  know  that  Director  W.  S. 
Van  Dyke,  who  just  gave  us 
"Trader  Horn,"  was  once  a  messen- 
ger boy  for  D.  W.  Griffith? 

Wl  1. 1.,  nothing  like  it  had  ever  been  seen 
by  the  citizens  of  Los  Angeles  before.  I 
mean  the  first  showing  of  Chaplin's  "City 
Lights  " 

Women's  evening  gowns  were  torn.  For 
hours  the  mob  surged  back  and  forth,  appar- 
ently unafraid  of  policemen's  clubs,  which  were 
freely  used. 

At  last  the  comedian  arrived.  He  was  ac- 
companied by  Professor  and  Mrs  Einstein  and 
Professor  and  Mrs.  Millikan  and  Georgia  Hale. 
What  Einstein  thought  about  it  could  only  be 
told  by  use  of  the  fourth  dimension. 

Chaplin,  who  was  literally  mobbed,  was  ever 


smflii 

been  torn  to  bits  if  tin-  p 

pletely  surrounded  him. 
■p<  »\    iir 

.re. 

Guy  Bolton,  veteran  libretti 

the  -tory 

«i  ixxi  for 
tin-  ten  week  job. 

When  the  term  was  up 
one   tune.      Ira   had   written   forty-two   Wl 

by  his  own  count 
And  the  picture?    Well,  nothing 

heard  of  it  lately. 

CONSTANCE    BENNETJ  I    for 

two  pictures  with   Warner   Pro-     Itipu 
a  six-hour  working  day  for  -ix  d.i 
I.a  Bennett  does  not  re|>ort  for  work  until  ten 
a.  It.,  takes  one  hour  for  lunch  and  lea 
five.    '  ltUss  is  the  only  other  star  with 

such  a  "  Unionized  "  arrangi  n 

They  gave  it  to  him  because  of  l.i 
age. 

We  SUSp  1 1  temperament  might  be  the- 1 
of  Mi--  Bennett's,  judging  from  theezperii 

M  (i-M    had   with   her   while   she  was   n. 

"The  Easiest  Way."    She  refused  to  tal 

time  for  publicity  pictures.  She  lift  the  pub- 
licity department  without  enough  stills  to  prop- 
erly advertise  the  production. 

There  was  to  be  a  half-day  of  retakes.    The 
publicity  men  asked  her  to  report  at  die  studio 
[  PLEASE  Tl  KN  10  PAG] 


Rin-Tin-Tin  receives  a  charming  caller  as  he  gets  his  daily  workout. 
Evalyn  Knapp,  of  First  National,  visits  the  famous  dog  star  at  his 
home.  Rinty  is  put  into  this  huge  squirrel  cage  every  day,  and  he 
runs  about  fifty  miles  in  it  before  he  gets  his  supper.  Rinty  is  not 
worried  about  his  hips 


Is  this  Mr.  George  Arliss  with  a 
Dutch  bob?  Or  is  it  just  little 
Mitzi  Green,  one  of  the  cleverest 
of  child  mimics,  giving  us  her 
impression  of  the  famous  char- 
acter star? 


v> 


\  wind  I e 


Swindle 


Littl 


St 


ar 


One  of  America's  most  popular 
authors  takes  us  behind  the 
scenes  of  movie  love  and  finance 


By    Charles   Francis    Coe 


BECAUSE  he  could  sell  the  services  of  other  actors  better 
than  he  could  his  own,  Danny  Grindle  forsook  the  high 
iron  gates  of  the  studios  and  became  an  agent.  To  his 
dearest  friend,  Tommy  Raridan,  he  confided  his  purposes. 
"A  fellow  could  spend  his  life  standing  outside  these  gates, 
Tommy,"  he  explained  despondently,  "and  never  know  where 
his  nex'  meal  would  come  from.  When  I  do  manage  to  get  into 
a  casting  director's  office,  I  can  tell  him  more  about  the  other 
fellow's  acting  that  I  can  my  own.  I  think  I  am  a  better  sales- 
man than  actor.    I'm  going  to  be  an  agent." 

Tommy,  from  the  depths  of  his  own  discouragement, 
answered,  "I  guess  that's  true  enough,  Danny.  In  my  case  it's 
different.  I  couldn't  sell  the  Presidency  to  a  Democrat.  Maybe 
I'm  a  rotten  actor,  too,  but  I've  got  to  depend  on  that  for  my 
living.  However,"  he  shrugged  with  the  optimism  character- 
istic of  his  kind,  "maybe  I'll  get  a  break." 

"That's  what  I  was  thinking."  Danny  said.  "There's  at 
least  a  dozen  fellows  and  girls  around  this  extra  gate  who  would 
make  good  if  they  got  a  chance.  I'm  going  out  and  sign  each 
one  of  them  up.  Then  I'll  make  it  my  business  to  sell  them  to 
the  studios.  I  thought  maybe  you'd  sign  up  with  me  first, 
Tommy." 

"Sure,  I  will,"  Tommy  agreed  instantly.    "If  you  get  to  be 

46 


Illustrated  by   Frank   Godwin 


an  agent,  I'll  be  your  first  actor.  I  don't  guarantee  you'll  make 
much  of  a  living  out  of  me,  though,"  he  smiled. 

"You  can't  tell  about  that.  Stars  are  made  overnight," 
Danny  pointed  out.    "I  thought  I'd  ask  Jean  to  sign  up  too." 

"I  guess  she  would  all  right,"  Tommy  returned. 

"It'd  be  pretty  swell,"  Danny  pondered  hopefully,  "if  I  could 
sell  you  both,  wouldn't  it?  You're  the  nicest  kids  I've  ever  met 
in  Hollywood.  It'd  be  grand  to  have  you  both  stars  .  .  .  and 
married." 

"It's  pretty  swell  of  Jean  to  wait  while  I  hang  around  extra 
gates,"  Tommy  returned.  "Stardom  don't  mean  anything  to 
her  where  love  is  concerned,  Danny." 

Three  days  later  in  the  mystic  machinations  of  Hollywood's 
commerce,  Danny  Grindle  was  an  agent  and  as  such  repre- 
sented five  virtually  unknown  motion  picture  performers. 

Anything  can  happen  in  Hollywood.  In  this  particular  case 
something  did.    On  the  second  day  of  his  efforts,  Danny  man- 


Tommy  couldn't  understand  why  the  director  gave 
him  all  the  breaks,  photographing  him  full  face  while 
only  the  star's  back     showed  in   scene  after  scene 


aged  to  display  Tommy  Randan's  screen  test  to  a  producer. 
The  lad's  work,  seemed  to  fit  into  the  requirements  of  a  part 
then  open,  and  Danny  signed  the  boy  at  the  tlat  price  of  one 
hundred  dollars  weekly  for  the  course  of  the  picture. 

"You  can't  tell  what  will  come  of  this."  Danny  pointed  out 
repeatedly.  "You're  sure  to  click  in  that  bit,  Tommy,  and  it 
may  lead  to  a  long  term  contract.'' 

The  three  devoutly  hoped  so,  and  Tommy  worked  with  that 
thought  in  mind.  The  inevitable  resulted.  He  was  submitted 
a  contract  for  five  years,  starting  at  seventy-five  dollars  per 
week  and  increasing  every  six  months  at  the  rate  of  fifty  dollars 
per  week,  provided,  of  course,  that  his  work  warranted  the 
studio  in  exercising  these  semi-annual  options.     In  high  glee 


Danny,  as  Tommy's  agent,  signed  this  contract  and  the  lad 
went  to  work. 

"Only  six  months,  sweetheart."  Tommy  told  Jean  when  the 
contracts  had  been  executed.  '*  We  can  live  pretty  comfortably 
on  one  hundred  twenty-five  a  week." 

Danny's  success  with  Tommy  got  him  contracts  for  many 
others,  though  he  did  not  place  Jean. 

"You  don't  need  to  worry  about  that,  honey,"  Tommy  told 
her  repeatedly.  "Just  as  soon  as  I  get  up  there  in  the  big  money 
you  can  give  up  this  acting." 

Midway  through  the  second  option  period  of  the  contract,  a 
well-known  Broadway  star  was  imported  at  terrific  cost  to  the 
studio.  Shortly  after  the  arrival  of  this  renowned  actor.  Tommy 
was  called  into  the  producer's  office.  It  was  made  clear  to  him 
that  he  was  to  play  a  substantial  part  in  the  picture  the  Broad- 
way star  was  to  make. 

"It's  a  great  chance  for  you."  the  producer  pointed  out. 
"  Watch  this  star  closely,  Tommy.  [  please  turn  to  page  119] 


THE   NATIONAL   GUIDE 


TO   MOTION    PICTURES 


ft 


A  CONNECTICUT  YA.\KEE—Fox 


MIX  Will  Rogers  and  Mark  Twain  and  you've  got  laugh- 
medicine  that'll  cure  anything  from  the  megrims  to 
depression-woe.  This  1931  talkie  of  Twain's  grand  old 
story  is  better  and  funnier  than  was  that  fine  silent  "Yankee" 
that  Harry  Myers  starred  in  some  years  ago.  Liberties  have 
been  taken  with  the  book,  but  even  Twain  wouldn't  kick. 
For  instance,  when  King  Arthur's  mail-clad  knights  come 
charging  to  frays  in  bantam  autos.  Armed  with  machine 
guns  instead  of  lances,  it's  a  swell  gag.  And  there  are  plenty 
others.  As  the  Yankee,  Will  Rogers — Indian-blooded  Okla- 
homan  though  he  be — is  a  natural.  His  tongue  fits  Twain's 
words  perfectly.  William  Farnum  and  sinuous  Mvrna  Loy 
are  excellent.  Frank  Albertson  and  Maureen  O'Sullivan 
supply  the  love  interest. 


ft 


PARLOR,  BEDROOM  AND  BATH—M-G-M 


ONE  of  the  stage's  good  old  dependable  farces  breaks  out 
on  the  screen,  and  is  it  a  howl! 

The  dolorous-visaged  Mister  Keaton,  and  the  ultra-leggy 
Charlotte  Greenwood,  racing  for  comedy  honors,  cross  the 
finish  line,  neck  and  neck.  And  neck  and  neck  and  neck  and 
neck  .  .  .  !  And  until  you've  seen  giraffy  Charlotte  and 
half-pint  Buster  neck,  you  haven't  seen  necking. 

Of  course,  you  all  know  the  story — about  the  goofy  sign- 
tacker  who,  for  adequate  house-party  reasons,  is  converted 
into  a  synthetic  Lothario,  and  takes  it  so  seriously  that  no 
woman  is  safe.    As  a  heavy  lover,  Buster  is  amazing. 

They've  handed  him  a  fine  supporting  cast,  with  Reginald 
Denny,  Dorothy  Christy,  Sally  Eilers,  Natalie  Moorhead 
and  Cliff  Edwards  all  going  big. 

48 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

(Ko.r.».»*i  OFT.       M  J 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


ft 


KIKI— United  Artists 


OUR  MARY"  riCKFORD'S  back  at  the  top  o'  the 
heap!  After  "Kiki,"  she  can  sit  back  and  politely 
make  faces  at  the  wise  ones  who  bawled:  "She's  through!" 
"  Kiki"  knocks  all  her  critics  for  a  row  of  rimless  zeroes  and 
reestablishes  Alary  as  the  peer  of  any  screen  actress. 

You'll  thrill  tremendously  at  the  metamorphosis  of  "Amer- 
ica's Sweetheart."  Here's  no  sugary,  sick-sweet  Pickford; 
here's  a  little  rascal  as  much  like  the  Mary  of  old  as  tabasco's 
like  syrup.  Mary's  gone  hot! — and  saucily  sophisticated. 
She  prances  in  underthings,  somersaults  furiously  in  pa- 
jamas, gets  bounced  from  a  doorway.  She  lets  herself  be 
utterly  ludicrous.  You'll  laugh  at  the  queen — but  how  you'll 
love  her!    Why  has  Mary  been  hiding  all  this  fire? 

The  picture  itself?  Marvellously  cast,  splendidly  pro- 
duced, directed  with  a  keen  sense  of  values,  as  fast-funny  a 
farce  as  has  been  filmed.  Reginald  Denny  has  never  done 
a  finer  piece  of  comedy  work;  it's  his  tough  luck  that,  in 
your  excitement  over  Mary's  revivification,  you  lose  some 
perspective  on  the  brilliance  of  his  work. 

"  Kiki"  is  a  warmly  seasoned  dish.  Situations  and  lines 
are  often  a  bit  naughty.  But  such  is  the  artistry  of  this  pro- 
duction that  you  can  safely  take  the  kids.  And  you'll 
have  a  few  private  laughs  of  your  own. 


SAVKS    YOUR    PICTURK    TIME    AND    MOXF.Y 


The  Best  Pictures  of  the  Month 

K1KI  I  AM    1  v>  NN1 

A  (  ONN1  CTICin   v.Wki  1 
PARLOR,  Hi  DROOM  AND  BA1  n 
LONELY  WIVES  MOTHER'S  MILLIONS 

The  Best  Performances  of  tin-  Month 

M.iry  Pickford  in  " Kiki" 

Reginakl  Denny  in  *' K iki" 

Ann  Harding  in  "Easi  Lynne" 

(  live  Hrui)k  in  "l  .ist  Lynne" 

Will  Rogers  iii  "A  Connecticui  Yankee" 

Buster  Keaton  in  "Parlor,  Bedroom  and  Bath" 

Charlotte  Greenwood  in  "Parlor,  Bedroom  ami  Hath" 

Edward  Everett  Horton  in  ''Lonely  Wives" 

May  Robson  in  "Mother's  Millions" 

Skeea  Gallagher  in  "It  Pays  to  Advertise" 

Jeanene  MacDonald  in  "Don't  Bet  on  Women" 

Nancy  Carroll  in  "Stolen  Heaven" 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  n  i  it  u  c  J  u  ill  be  found  on  page  144 


& 


EAST  LYSSE— Fox 


A  RARELY  beautiful  and  artistic  production.  Even 
though  this  melodrama  antedates  grandmother's  thea- 
ter days,  it  now  comes  to  us  in  its  very  finest  form.  Our 
ideas  of  tragedy  have  changed,  and  the  same  situations 
must  he  handled  with  finer  discrimination  to  move  us  now. 

The  picture  retains  all  of  the  heart-breaking  details  of 
the  original  tragedy — the  wife  cast  out  by  her  stern  hus- 
band, wandering  over  the  world,  denied  the  sight  of  her  own 
child,  finally  coming  home  to  die,  but  it  is  unbelievably 
touching,  with  a  war  sequence  for  a  modern  background. 

Gorgeous  sets,  exquisite  photography,  almost  flawless  di- 
rection by  Erank  Lloyd,  make  this  an  outstanding  picture. 

Ann  Harding,  the  star,  runs  the  entire  gamut  of  emotions, 
with  as  fine  shading  and  restraint  as  has  ever  been  seen  on 
the  screen,  and  (curls  and  all)  she  is  captivatingly  beautiful. 

Conrad  Xagel  and  Clive  Brook,  the  men,  are  continuously 
interesting  in  unsympathetic  roles.  Brook's  pantomime  is 
marvelous.  Beryl  Mercer  brings  a  tightening  of  the  throat 
in  a  small  bit.  "Cissy"  Loftus  and  others  do  excellent  work. 

It  took  some  courage  to  make  a  talking  version  of  this 
old  drammer.  Fox  has  succeeded  nobly.  Plus  the  beauty 
of  Ann  Elarding.  the  whole  thing  is  a  beautiful  job. 

No  true  devotee  of  pictures  can  afford  to  pass  this  by. 


* 


LONEU  WIVES    Pathe 


F<  IR  sheer,  side-splitting  fane,  this  is  the  best  thing  we 
have  seen  in  a  blue  moon.  Edward  Everett  Morton  |i 
a  dual  role  and  does  it  BO  well  v.  e  are  wondering  how  he  has 
kept  his  light  under  a  bushel.  The  three  girls  involved  are 
Esther  Ralston,  Laura  La  I'lante  and  Patsy  Ruth  Miller, 
the  last  named  being  the  dangerously  attractive  secretary, 
while  the  other  two  are  wives  .  .  .  but  not  entirely 
lonely. 

The  story  revolves  around   a   Mr.  Smith,   who  att< 
strictly  to  business  during  the  day  and  becomes  absolutely 
irresponsible  when  work  is  over.     Even  his  shrewd  mother- 
in-law  cannot  keep  him  out  of  mischief. 

You  must  see  it  to  have  any  idea  of  how  many  laughs  you 
can  crowd  into  fifty  minutes. 


* 


MOTHER'S  MILLIOSS—  Liberty  Productions 


HARRIET  BREEX.  the  wealthiest  woman  in  the  world, 
saved  not  only  her  pennies  for  old  age  but  a  fine  sense 
of  humor  and  heart  full  of  compassion,  according  to  this 
delightfully  entertaining  story.  This  reviewer  formerly 
lived  in  the  same  block  as  Hcttie  Green,  on  whose  life  the 
talkie  is  founded,  and  can  truthfully  report  that  May  Robson 
at  least  looks  exactly  like  her  until  the  final  dress-up  sequence. 
Humor,  pathos,  bright  dialogue  and  splendid  acting  are  in- 
gredients which  make  this  a  fine  family  picture 

Although  presented  like  a  stage  play,  the  movie  does  not 
lose  in  this  instance.  James  Hall.  Lawrence  Gray,  Frances 
Dade  and  Edmund  Breese  give  excellent  performances,  but 
Leah  Winslow  as  the  maid  is  the  runner-up  for  honors  with 
the  veteran  stage  actress  May  Robson  in  her  first  big  talkie. 

45 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List!     , 


JUNE  MOON 
— Paramount 


DON'T  BET 

on  women- 
Fox 


AS  the  dumb  oaf  from  the  electric  works,  who  thinks  he's 
a  song  writer,  Jackie  Oakie  is  a  swell  excuse  for  a  lot  of 
laughs.  Most  of  the  wisecracking  lines  in  this  are  by  Ring 
Lardner,  excellently  sustaining  the  current  allegation  that  he's 
an  ace  humorist.  A  fine  supporting  cast  helps  Oakie  put  this 
over,  with  Harry  Akst  almost  stealing  the  show.  You're  going 
to  like  this  one. 


KEPT 

HUSBANDS— 
Radio  Pictures 


HERE'S  another  of  the  modern  crop  of  spicy,  naughty 
affairs  wherein  husbands,  wives  and  lovers  are  first  scram- 
bled, then  unscrambled  for  the  nice  ending.  It's  good  adult 
pastime,  but  unless  the  children  are  precocious,  they  won't  be 
highly  entertained.  Roland  Young's  comedy  is  nice,  and  Ed- 
mund Lowe,  Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Una  Merkel  play  their 
roles  effectively  and  make  the  most  of  the  smart  dialogue. 


3  GIRLS 
LOST— 
Fox 


THE  title  gives  the  story  away  but  it  is  fun  watching  Doro- 
thy Mackaill  trying  to  make  a  tea  hound  out  of  Joel  M cCrea. 
They  make  an  attractive  pair.  Clara  Kimball  Young's  return 
is  not  as  auspicious  as  it  might  be,  as  the  part  is  disagreeable, 
but  she's  still  beautiful.  Mary  Carr,  Bryant  Washburn, 
Robert  McWade  and  others  complete  a  capable  cast.  Lively 
entertainment. 


BEHIND 
OFFICE 
DOORS— 
Radio  Pictures 


THREE  little  girls  come  to  the  city  as  little  girls  so  often  do. 
One  is  a  good  girl,  one  is  a  bad  girl  and  you're  not  quite 
sure  about  the  other — maybe  she's  Goldilocks.  Loretta 
Young,  Joan  Marsh  and  Joyce  Compton  aren't  given  much 
of  a  story  break  in  this  one.  Lew  Cody  does  a  swell  job  as  a 
racketeer  but  John  Wayne  isn't  so  hot.  Maybe  it's  not  his 
kind  of  role. 


FIRES  OF 
YOUTH— 
Universal 


THE  story  of  a  carefree  youth  who  rises  to  industrial  im- 
portance through  the  help  of  an  efficient  secretary  and  al- 
most loses  his  romance.  Robert  Ames  is  the  irresistible  young 
man  and  Mary  Astor  the  ever-helpful  secretary.  He's  also 
interested  in  Catherine  Dale  Owen  and  Edna  Murphy— in  the 
story.  The  picture  tells  an  interesting  tale — and  Mary  Astor 
does   fine    work. 

50 


REMEMBER  Jack  Gilbert  and  Jeanne  Eagels  in  the  silent 
version  of  this,  called  "  Man,  Woman  and  Sin  "?  Now  Lew 
Ayres  and  Genevieve  Tobin  struggle  through  the  well-worn 
plot  and  the  going  isn't  so  good.  Ayres  must  have  better 
parts.  Certainly  Lew  isn't  the  sad  cub  reporter  of  this,  but 
Genevieve  Tobin  makes  up  for  everything.  She's  grand.  The 
dialogue  is  poor. 


The    First    and    Best    Talkie    Reviews! 


IT  PAYS  TO 

ADVERTISl 

I'tii  iiniiimit 


\MONG  I  III 
M  IRRIl  I) 
M-G-M 


" '"plIIK  ll.l'.N'  Soap,  Unlucky  tW  Dirt,''  is  the  advertising 
JL  slogan  motivating  this  hilarious  comedy.  "Unlucky  for 
gloom"  should  be  the  slogan  for  tin-  picture.  It's  the  old  stage 
play  in  new,  movie-designed  clothes.  Skeets  Gallagher,  Nor- 
man Poater  (husband  of  Oaudette  Colbert)  and  Carole  Lom- 
bard head  a  perfect  cast.    The  keynote  of  tin-  picture  is  speed — 

and  then  more  speed! 


ANOTHER  of  those  things  called  "sophisticated"  about 
how  husbands  and  wives  carry  on  in  country  (  tub  seta.  All 
ends  happily  and  reasonably  honorably  after  various  liaisons 
are  effected  or  attempted.  Adolphe  Menjou  plays  himself  ex- 
cellently as  usual.  Norman  Foster  and  Leila  llyams  are — this 
is  high  praise  a  young  couple  very  much  like  any  young 
couple.     Not  for  the  kiddies. 


BODY AND 
SOUL— 

Fox 


STOLE* 

HEAVE \ 
Paramount 


LOOKEE,  there  are  airplanes,  spies,  mistaken  identity  and 
all  the  things  that  make  movie  plots  what  they  are!  Abo 
there's  Charlie  Farrell  doing  very  nicely,  thanks,  in  a  uniform 
and  a  good  part.  Elissa  Landi,  from  the  stage,  takes  her  first 
movie  bow.  She  can  take  a  lot  more,  too.  She  has  the  beauty 
and  talent  that  should  spell  success.  And  is  that  Myrna  Loy 
a  mean  one?     You'll  sav  so.     See  this. 


NANCY  CARROLL  and  Phillips  Holmes  do  some  very 
touching  romantic  acting — but  something  went  wrong  with 
the  story  of  two  young  folks  who  try  to  steal  a  little  paradise 
on  twenty  thousand  stolen  dollars.  It's  slow,  unreal  and  even 
a  little  silly  in  spots.  They  have  their  brief  fling  in  Florida,  but 
Phil  is  finally  marched  off  to  the  jail-house — with  a  hint  that 
he'll  get  mercy  because  he  and  Nancy  love  each  other. 


FINN  AND 
HATTIE— 
Paramount 


CHILDREN 
OF 

DREAMS— 
Warners 


MITZI  GREEN  and  Jackie  Searl  just  about  have  their  own 
way  in  this,  though  ZaSu  Pitts  and  Leon  Errol,  Libyan 
Tashman  and  Regis  Toomey  are  present  and  accounted  for. 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Haddock  have  little  fun  out  of  their  trip  abroad, 
how  can  they,  with  a  fiendish  nephew  and  little  daughter  along. 
The  picture  is  one  long  howl,  and  can  safely  be  put  on  your 
must  list. 


ANOTHER  reason  why  the  box-office  turned  thumbs  down 
on  musicals.  Sigmund  Romberg  and  Oscar  Hammerstein, 
II,  are  responsible  for  the  tale,  which  has  fruit-pickers  (ac- 
companied by  an  orchestra)  singing  through  orchards,  and  a 
hero  tenor  warbling  to  the  girl  friend  "And  Even.-  Morning  at 
Seven  A.  M.  We'll  Climb  a  Tree."'  The  cast  works  hard. 
[additional  reviews  on  page  133] 


Beb 


6     an 


d   Ben    and  Their    Little 


62 


IT'S  a  tough  life — living  at  the  beach  ten  miles  out  of 
Hollywood.  Bebe  and  Ben,  getting  their  day's  supply  of 
actinic  rays  before  starting  the  day's  work.  Then,  "The  car, 
James,"  and  off  to  the  jute  mill  to  earn  their]  daily  cake 


25- Room    Hovel    at    Santa    Monica 


Bebe's  own  boudoir. 
Wh.it'-.  th.it  ni. in  doing 
there?  Mete  is  one 
couple  that  Hollywood 
n't  gossip  about. 
One  reason  is  that 
they're  never  seen  out  in 
public  except  in  each 
other's  company 


I   I  I  nn i |H 


Two  hops  and  a  jump  and  the 
Lyon  family  are  in  the  Pacific 
surf.  Note  the  high,  palm- 
crested  cliffs  behind  the 
louse,  and  observe  the  man- 
ner in  which  the  servants' 
quarters  are  separated  from 
the  main  house 


The  rooms  most  lived  in 
at  the  Daniels-Lyon 
house  face  right  on  the 
beach.  Last  night  they 
probably  were  battling  at 
contract  bridge  on  the 
table  that  now  serves  to 
hold  the  friendly  grape- 
fruit and  coffee 


SH'Ml 


11111*1 


63 


]V[oney  Js  N°  joke 


Hi 


'A,  ha,  ha,  ha,  hah  .  .  .  ! — 
funny,  isn't  he,  this  Will 
Rogers    fellow? 

(lets  up  and  wisecracks 
about  any  thingatall,hedoes.  Congress, 
international  affairs,  football,  national 
crises,  aviation,  Hoover,  religion — 
they're  all  screamingly  funny  when 
Will  says  willrogersy  things  about 
I  hem  on  the  screen,  or  the  stage,  or  in 
lis  newspaper  articles. 

Yeah,  he's  funny  there.  But  say, 
have  you  ever  seen  him  in  a  business 
office?  Have  you  ever  heard  him 
driving  a  business  bargain?  No? — 
well,  quite  a  few  people  have.  They're 
the  people  who  did  business  with  him. 
And  to  them,  Will  Rogers  is  just  about 
as  funny  as  a  steam  roller — and  quite 
a  bit  more  effective. 

To  them,  the  funniest  thing  about 
Will  Rogers  is  how  unfunny  he  is  when 
it  comes  to  dollars. 

And  just  because  it's  tremendously 
interesting  to  see  the  other  side  of  Ha- 
11a  Rogers,  the  Oklahoma  cowboy 
who's  made  himself  a  millionaire  sev- 
eral times  over  by  kidding  everything, 
this  will  be  the  story  of  Mr.  William 
P.  Rogers,  wholesale  and  retail  dealer 
in  new  and  shopworn  jokes,  with  an 
annual  business  turnover  of  better 
than  a  million  dollars  .  .  .   ! 


But  not  in  tens.    In 


JUST  for  contrast,  let's  go  back  to 
1 905.  There  was  a  young  fellow  with 
a  partner  and  a  trick  horse  in  a  vaude- 
ville act  at  Hammerstein's  Roof  in 
New  York,  then.  He  was  getting  S150 
a  week  for  the  whole  act.  One  day  he 
asked   Hammerstein  for  a  $10  raise 

"Ten  a  week  more  or  we  quit,"  was 
the  general  idea. 

He  got  the  dollars. 

Well,    that    was    Will    Rogers,  and 
he's  been  getting  the  dollars  ever  since, 
tens  of  thousands,  instead. 

Look,  for  contrast,  at  what  happened  last  year.  Rogers, 
you  know,  chews  gum  all  the  time.  Certain  chewing-gum 
makers  thought  that  an  endorsement  of  their  brand  by  Rogers 
would  boost  sales.    So  they  asked  Rogers  to  endorse. 

"What  do  I  get  f'r  it?"  Rogers  wanted  to  know,  not  very 
much  interested  in  the  general  idea. 

"What  do  you  want?"  thev  asked  him. 

"Aw— about  thirty  thousand,"  he  said!— S30.000  he  de- 
manded just  for  saying  that  yes,  he  liked  their  chewing-gum. 

And  they  paid  it! 

And  that's  just  the  beginning — just  a  drop  in  the  bucket  of 
the  enormous  income  that  Rogers  has  amassed.     Let's  go: 

Chief  source  of  his  river  of  gold,  of  course,  is  his  movie  work. 
Just  a  couple  of  months  ago.  Will  Rogers  signed  his  new  con- 
tract with  Fox — one  of  the  fattest,  juiciest  contracts  any 
picture  star  has  ever  held. 

It  pays  him,  the  Fox  people  report,  $900,000  a  year  for  a 
two-year  minimum,  with  options  up  to  five  years  hung  on! 

Now,  no  movie  outfit  is  going  to  pay 
any  one  person  SI 8,000  a  week  unless 
they've  got  to.     And  it  was  Will  Rogers,  r>  T  J  -. 

the  funny,  bashful  feller,  who  made  them         H  y     ■*■*  '* 

u 


do  it.  The  new  salary  is  a  huge  in- 
crease over  the  old  contract,  but  when 
Rogers  signed  the  old  one,  he  hadn't 
been  a  success  in  pictures.  In  the 
silents,  the  few  pictures  he  made  were 
flops.  His  sort  of  comedy  is  the  audible 
kind;  not  pantomime.  So  when  Fox 
signed  him  originally,  they  were  taking 
a  chance. 

IT  so  happened,  then,  that  Rogers 
made  good  with  the  mike.  He  became 
bi^  box-office,  and  knew  it.  And  so, 
when  new-contract  time  came  around, 
they  discovered  that  they'd  been  d  al- 
ing  not  with  Will  Rogers,  comedian, 
but  with  Wm.  P.  Rogers,  business  man. 
They  began  to  understand  why 
Rogers  had  declined,  at  the  outset 
of  his  talkie  career,  to  sign  a  long-term 
contract.  At  that  time,  he  said: 
"Well,  let's  not  make  it  a  long  con- 
tract; let's  wait  an'  see  how  I  get 
across."  Maybe  the  executives  thought 
he  was  being  kind  to  them — leaving 
them  a  way  out  in  case  he  flopped. 
But  on  the  other  hand,  it  now  became 
more  evident  that  he  was  leaving 
things  open  for  himself  to  a  spot  where 
he  could  demand  plenty  and  get  it,  in 
the  event  of  success. 

And  so  it  turned  out.  For  his  new 
contract,  Rogers  asked  plenty.  The 
Fox  people  wept  and  wailed  and 
gnashed  their  teeth.  "Take  it  or  leave 
it,"  was  Rogers'  general  attitude,  al- 
though he  was  willing  to  dicker.  They 
dickered.  And  when  it  was  all  over, 
Rogers  came  out  grinning,  and  the  Fox 
people,  asked  what  the  new  figures 
were,  grumped: 

"Oh,  just  a  slight  increase.  You 
know  Rogers  .  .  .!" 

Well,  the  "slight  increase"  now  is 
revealed  as  giving  the  comedian  the 
nearly-a-million-a-year  salary— one  of  the  biggest  starring  con- 
tracts on  record. 

And  not   the  least  interesting  part  of  the  contract  is  one 
significant  clause.      That  clause  specifies,  in  black  and  white, 
that  Will  shall  not  be  required  to  submit  to  publicity  interviews. 
Why? 

Because  he  might  inadvertently,  during  an  interview,  give 
away  one  of  his  jokes.  And,  it  is  specified,  he  is  not  to  be  asked 
to  give  away  that  which  he  sells — jokes! 

THIS  leads  up  to  the  entertaining  revelation  that  Rogers  uses 
each  of  his  jokes  a  half  dozen  times.  He  guards  each  new- 
wisecrack  that  he  originates — or  finds — like  the  City  National 
Bank  guards  its  vaults.  He  takes  it  and  mulls  it  over  and 
coddles  it  and  twists  it  about.  And  before  he's  done,  each 
joke  has  become  sextuplets.  And  he  uses  it  six  different  ways — 
a  couple  of  times  in  his  writings,  a  couple  of  times  in  his  talks, 
and  a  couple  of  times  wherever  else  he  can  get  paid  for  it. 
You're  never  sure,  when  you're  paying  to  read  or  hear  Will 
Rogers,  that  you're  not  getting  a  second-hand  gag — or  a  third 
or  fourth  or  fifth  or  sixth-hand,  maybe. 
His  writings  are  the  second  main  source 

«-*•/!>       T    /j  ri  rr        °^  ms  mcome-    ^l  s  nard  to  set  any  exact 
7"  r  y      J— i  U  //  g         figure  on  what  [  please  turn  to  page  84  ] 


Will  Rogers 
makes  a  million 
a  year  but  he 
won't  joke  about 
five  cents 


"Hello 

M 


*  y.  r 


55 


Opekatob  Miss  Pickhorn?  Mr.  Fair- 
shanks  calling. 

M\ry  Oh  »!<ar,  I  thought  he  was  on 
a  ship  somewhere! 

Operator — He   is,    Modom.     1!> 
your  part] ,    Hold  the  line,  pulleez! 

TeLEPHONI       drk!      ()rk! 

Doug    Hello,  Hipper! 
Mary— Hello,  Tiller! 

Don; — How  are  you? 

M  \ry — Oh,  I'm  just    fine.     How  are 

you? 

Dove. — I'm  fine. 

Mary — Well,  what's  new  with  you? 

Doug — Not  a  thing.  Just  sailing  along. 

M ary — Fass  any  boats  lately? 

Doug — Well,  not  very  lately.  Vic, 
when  did  we  pass  that  boat?  Victor 
Fleming  says  we  passed  it  yesterday 
morning,  but  I  thought  it  was  Tuesday. 

Mary — Was  it  a  big  boat? 

Doug — Well,  not  very  big.  I  think 
it  was  a  sampan.  Was  it  a  sampan  we 
passed,  Vic?  Vic  says  it  was  a  catamaran. 
I  thought  it  was  a  sampan.  Anyhow,  I 
jumped  over  it  a  couple  of  times. 

Mary  —  Are  you  jumping  all  right  now, 
dear? 

Doug — I'm  jumping  simply  bully. 
Haven't  jumped  so  well  in  years.  You 
should  have  seen  me  go  over  the  captain's 
table  at  lunch  today.  Never  touched  a 
dish. 

M  \ry — I  suppose  you'll  do  a  lot  of 
jumping  in  the  Orient. 

Doug — I  should  say  so.  I  plan  to 
jump  from  Korea  to  Manchuria.  01 
course,  poor  old  Vic  will  take  a  train. 
Well,  a  train  or  a  junk.  What  are  you 
up  to,  dear? 

Mary — Oh,  I'm  just  nipping  around. 
You  know,  gadding  here  and  there.  I've 
seen  a  few  nice  shows.  Have  vou  heard 
"I  Got  Rhythm?" 


ary    s 


Doug  phones  the 

Missus   from   a 

Pacific  liner  7,000 

miles  away 

By  Edwin  Morton 


would    I    hear   it?      Sing 
it.  baby. 

Mary  sings  two  verses  and  a  chorus 
of  "I  Got  Rhythm"  into  the  phone.) 

Doug — Ha-cha-cha!    That's  gnat! 

Operator — Ten  minits.  please. 

Doug— Get  off  the  wire,  Tet!  Or  line, 
rather.  There  isn't  any  wire,  eh  Mary? 
Ha.  ha!  I  guess  there  isn't  any  line, 
either.  Well,  get  off  the  air.  Ha,  ha! 
How's  my  picture  going? 

Mary — Oh,  fine. 

Doug— That's  fine. 

M  \ry — This  line  is  certainly  clear, 
isn't  it? 

Doug — I'll  say  it's  clear.  Why,  you 
might  be  right  in  the  next  room. 


$2,000.00  For 

a  Few  Days' 

Thought! 

See  pages  66  and  67  and 
read  about  the  grand 
opportunity  to  turn  your 
enjoyment  and  observa- 
tions of  motion  pictures 
into  Cash.    Then  get  busy. 


Mary     Oh  this  science,  eh  Doug? 

Doug — You  said  it.  Why,  I'll  bet  this 
is  probably  the  longest  ship  to  shore 
telephone  <all  ever  made!  Why,  it  might 
get  into  the  newspapers! 

y\\u\      Oh,  I'd  hate  that!     After  all, 
our  private   lives   are   our   private   1 
it  seems  to  me. 

Doug  —  You're  absolutely  dead  right, 
Mary.    How's  the  weather  in  N< 

Mary  —  Oh,  coldish  and  a  lilt'.- 
snowish.  It  was  a  bit  foggish  last  night, 
but  then  it  turned  chillish.  How's  the 
weather  out  thi 

Doug — Well,  warmish.  Not  a  sign  of 
a  monsoon.  I'd  give  my  eye  for  a  good 
monsoon  right  now.  Like  to  see  if  1 
could  jump  over  it.     Oh  well,  hcigh-ht  ! 

Mary — Did  you  take  plenty  of  white 
socks,  dear? 

Doug — Yes,  dear. 

Mary — Underwear  holding  out? 

Doug — Yes,  darling. 

Mary — Buttons  on  all  your  shirts? 

Doug — Yes,  sweit. 

Mary— Everything  all  right!" 

Doug — Quite,  sugar. 

Mary — Well,  Doug  (yawning)  glad 
you  called. 

Doug — So  am  I.     Well,  take  can 
yourself,  Mary. 

Mary — Be  a  good  boy,  Doug. 

Doug — Don't  do  anything  I  wouldn't 
do. 

Mary — Don't  take  any   wooden  yen. 

DOUG— Well,  nighty,  night,  Mary. 

Mary — Tootle-oo,  Doug. 

Doug— Well— bye! 

Mary— Well— 'bye! 

Operator — The  charge,  Modom,  is 
S4. 219.40. 

Mary— Reverse  it,  and  try  and  catch 
the  boat  with  the  bill! 


Does  this  look  like  the 
most  vicious  killer  in  the 
talkies?  Little  Caesar — 
pardon  us,  Edward  G. 
Robinson  and  his  pretty 
wife,  Hollywood-bound. 
Contrast  this  with  the 
Robinson  below.  Caesar, 
loot-laden  and  gun  in 
hand,  awaits  the  coming 
of  his  enemies,  the  cops 


? 


We  come  to  praise, 
not  bury  Little 
Caesar— or  Edward 
G.  Robinson,  now 
the  First  Gangster 
of  Filmland 


LITTLE  CAESAR  walked  along  Delancey 
Street,  the  Broadway  of  New  York's  teem- 
ing East  Side,  in  the  cool  of  the  evening. 
About  him  was  a  mob  of  his  friends. 

He  was  on  no  gang  raid — merely  in  search  of 
the  Roumanian  vittles  that  charm  and  excite  his 
Roumanian  palate. 

And  at  his  heels  followed,  at  a  respectful  distance,  a  growing 
crowd  of  East  Side  gamins.  You  could  have  hung  hoops  on 
their  eyeballs.  The  picture  "Little  Caesar"  was  in  its  third 
week  on  Broadway.  All  these  kids  had  seen  it.  And  now  had 
not  Rico,  their  idol,  taken  flesh  to  walk  among  them? 

At  last  one  of  the  kids  rallied  all  his  unstrung  nerves.  He 
glided  up  beside  the  fast-striding  Rico. 

"You're  Little  Caesar,  ain't  you,  mister?"  he  asked.  "Chee 
— leave  me  see  your  rod,  will  yuh?" 

And  that's  what  happened  to  Eddie  Robinson — Edward  G. 
Robinson,  if  you  please— since  the  colossal  success  of  "Little 
Caesar,"  the  splendid  gang  picture  made  by  First  National 
from  the  novel  of  \V.  C.  Burnett. 

56 


ims: 


By 

Leonard  Hall 


In  the  eyes  of  New  York's 
thousands,  Eddie  was  Rico — not 
Robinson.  The  actor  squirmed 
under  the  barrage  of  stares. 
Much  as  he  loves  New  York,  he 
was  more  than  a  little  relieved 
when  he  mounted  the  steps  of 
the  fast  rattler  that  was  to  carry 
him  to  Hollywood  and  a  fat  new 
contract  at  the  Warner-First 
National  foundries  that  will 
bring  him  $100,000  by 
October. 

For  three  years  and  a 
now,  Eddie  Robinson — as 


next 

half, 
mild 
a  little  man  as  ever  said  "please"  to  a  waiter — has  been  First 
Gangster  of  stage  and  screen. 

His  career  with  leer  and  gun  began  when  "The  Racket"  was 
produced  in  the  theater.  (It  later  became  a  picture  with  Louie 
Wolheim  in  the  Robinson  role.) 

Theatergoers  who  saw  Robinson  in  the  part  of  Nick  Scar  si  in 
"The  Racket"  still  shiver  when  they  think  of  it— of  his  first 
entrance,  one  of  the  most  appalling  that  ever  covered  a  play- 
goer with  gooseflesh. 

A  silence  had  fallen  on  the  main  room  of  a  Chicago  police 
station.  Suddenly  the  door  opened  quietly  and  Scarsi  ap- 
peared. The  wide  Robinson  mouth  was  a  scarlet  slit  of 
implacable  hate — his  little  eyes    [  please  turn  to  page  128  ] 


Qarencr  Sinclair  Bull 


COME  on,  everybody — return  this  Girl  Scout  salute  you're  getting  from  a  couple 
of  good  scouts.  It's  International  Day  on  the  Santa  Monica  sands.  Conehita  Mont- 
enegro, lett,  is  wearing  a  gay  Algerian  beach  suit,  and  at  the  right  Lillian  Bond  displays  a 
new  American  gob  outfit  done  patriotically  in  red,  white  and  blue 


Bert  Longworlh 


THEY'RE  going  to  buy  this  pretty  blonde  child  a  pair  of  roller  skates  so  she  can 
make  better  time  from  studio  to  studio— she's  that  much  in  demand!  But  Warners 
have  a  contract!  Joan  Blondell,  twenty-one  and  a  trouper  since  childhood,  scored  sen- 
rationally  in  Etorothy  Mackaill's  "The  Office  Wife."     Now  she  works  all  the  time! 


cJJ    3/eytnour  QJays      H  b      yood  <  fashion —   Jl  s      Jowl 

1    Approve    7    Fashions 
in    tiiis    Une    Uutrit 


You  know  Carole  Lombard.     But  do  you  know  these  7  fashion  points  of 
these  clothes  of  hers?  —  if  you  don't  you  will  before  the  spring  is  over 


I  A  two-piece  jacket  dress  that  looks  for  all 
the  world  like  a  suit.  But  take  my  word 
for  it,  it's  a  dress — 


2  Not  only  a  short  jacket  but  short  sleeves. 
Getting  technical — they're  three-quarter 
sleeves. 


jj^       They  show  the  frilly  sleeves  of  the  blouse 
underneath. 


^  Only  it  isn't  a  blouse.  It's  a  guimpe. 
Know  what  that  is?  It's  a  false  blouse — 
with  only  a  neck  and  arms. 


g#  The  dress  is  wool — a  light  tweed — a  man- 
nish material — but  femininely  trimmed  in 
sheer  ladylike  organdie. 


g^       Shorter     sleeves     mean     longer     gloves. 
Good. 


•J ^       Her    handbag — thin — flat — like    a    little 
envelope — has  green  trimmings.    Fine. 


But  her  hat — not  so  good,  my  dear.     Its  brim 
is  all  right — but  its  crown — too  high  for  now. 


And  she  leans  well  in  fashions,  too — against 
a  good  looking  Sheraton-type  table.  There's 
fashion  in  tables,  too. 


G 


e  t    out 


Yo 


ur 


Fashion   J\A  j  e  c  t  i  ve  s 


Get  out  your  adjectives  and  let  'em  start  cheering  Joan 
Blondell  in  this  roarin'  beach  hat. 


It  sets  off  her  beauty  like  a  great  shell  found  by  a  mer- 
maid down  among  the  ocean  plants. 

You'll  see  lots  of  these  big  hats  this  summer — and 
probably  be  wearing  one. 

Notice  her  pajamas — (I  saw  many  of  these  spotted 
ones  at  Miami  and  Palm  Beach — and  liked  'em.) 

They  give  just  the  right  snap  to  curves — mighty  cute 
to  the  eye. 


Notice  no  sleeves — all  right  with  big  hats  to  keep  the 
naughty  sun  off  pretty  shoulders. 

That's   another  tip,   particularly   if  your  complexion 
can't  get  along  with  actinic  rays. 

Her  shining  pearls  are  in  fashion,  too.   So  are  her  well 
outlined  lips  and  her  lovely  eyes — 

Swell  gal!     Swell  hat! 


Girl 


s    w 


ill    1*  e    Cjr  ■  r  I 


^tlol    onlv    will   he — ~ J.^itl    (i 


re 


It  lakes  a  cute  thing  like  you,  Sid,  to  get  away  with 
boyish  clothes  this  Spring.    The  big  gals  just  can't  do  it. 

Sidney  Fox — you  look  girlish  in  this  boyish  suit. 

Your  collar-attached  shirt  is  THE  thing  to  wear  with 
that  jersey  suit.     And  the  candy-stick  tie  is  a  wow. 

You're  all  right,  Sidney.  From  the  little-boy  way  of  wear- 
ing your  beret  to  the  tips  of  your  good  looking  pumps. 


Take  a  tip  from  Sidney  Fox,  girls.  Dress  to  your  type  as 
she  does — then  everything  will  be  lovely. 

Another  kind  of  girlish  fashion  is  shown  by  June  Mac- 
Cloy  in  "Night  Life." 

A  good  looking  evening  dress  that  has  that  "mustn't- 
touch-'cause-I'm-dreadfully- innocent"    look. 

It's  the  ruffled,  primmish  type  of  dress  the  girl  of  the 
1880's  wore  to  get  her  man.  White.  Blue  velvet  sash  and 
bow.     It   couldn't   look    more   girli^i. 

And — if  you  like  fashion  repetition — we'll  tell  you  again 
that  looking  girlish  is  a  big  fashion  trick  this  Spring. 


He  del 


as    in 


jT  a  s  li  i  o 


n 


in  her  hat 
also  her  lips 


I  give  Hedda  a  hand  for  her  topper — fine  straw — a 
bicorne — with  its  two  points.  White-feather  trimmed — 
you'll  see  more  of  such  frills.  And  I'll  fashion  check  with 
Miss  Hopper  on  her  make-up,  too. 

Make-up  is  more  important  in  fashion  right  now  than 
ever  before.  Why?  Because  hats  such  as  these  show 
not  only  her  face — but  all  her  forehead  as  well. 


Hedda's  lovely — also  luscious,  if  you  please — lips  are 
rouged  to  a  queen's — or  rather  king's  taste.  That's  a 
point  worth  noticing. 

Her  eyes  are  made  up  swell,  too.  Notice  she  puts  on 
her  make-up  in  the  right  way — exactly  as  you  put  on  a 
necklace — to  fit  the  color  effect  she  wants.  Taste  and 
care — that's  the  secret  of  her  charm. 


Pr<-«ton  Duncan 


MITZI  GREEN  has  her  lessons  to  study,  like  any  ten-year-old,  but  they're  not 
long  division  and  highly  improper  fractions.  You  can  often  find  Paramounts 
wonder-child  tucked  away  in  a  corner  of  a  sound  stage,  conning  her  lines  for  the  day. 
"You  beast!"  studies  Mitzi  out  loud,  "What — has  this  woman — been — to  you?" 


Bredell 


IF  she  isn't  First  Lady  of  the  Screen,  just  who  is?  Ruth  Chatterton,  poised  and  lovely 
as  always,  as  she  looks  in  her  latest  Paramount  picture,  "Unfaithful."  Ruth  has 
signed  a  sensational  contract  with  Warners,  to  take  effect  when  her  present  agreement 
expires  next  fall.    Read  the  why  and  wherefore  across  the  way 


"I  Want  To  Live  Happily 


Says  Ruth  Chatterton, 

when  asked  questions 
about  her  new  contract 


E 


ver 


Af 


ter 


•>  5 


By    Ruth     Biery 


IF  you  were  offered  three-quarters  of  a  million  dollars  for 
two  years'  work  with  the  possibility  of  a  million  an<l  three- 
quarters  tor  four  years,  what  would  you  do? 
Oddly  enough,  Ruth  Chatterton  took  it.     And  by  taking 

it  from  one  company  while  she  yet  had  three  pictures  to  make 
for  another,  she  exploded  one  of  the  biggest  bombs  ever  dropped 
into  Hollywood  not  excluding  those  used  in  "All  Quiet  on  the 
Western  Front"  and  '"Hell's  Angels." 

Ruth  Chatterton's  signing  with  Warner  Bros,  in  January, 

when  she  is  under  contract  to  Paramount  until 0<  tober,  has  been 

iidered  unethical   by   many.      I    have  personally   heard  at 

least  a  dozen  people  criticize  it  in  language  which  left  nothing 

to  the  imagination. 

Why  all  the  excitement? 

ise  there  is  supposed  to  be  an  agreement  among  motion 
picture  producers  that  the  company  employing  a  star  should 
have  first  option  on  her  services  when  present  contract  arrange- 
ments have  expired.  That  is,  according  to  this  mythical 
arrangement,  Warner  Bros,  had  no  right  to  negotiate  with  Ruth 
Chatterton  until  Paramount  had  finished  negotiations  with  her. 

Any  such  agreement  must  do  away  with  competitive  bidding 
among  producers  for  contract  players!  It  must  definitely  keep 
the  salary  s>  ale  for  stars  down  rather  than  letting  the  bo.x-ofhce 
determine  the  figure.  We  remember  the  day  when  Gloria 
ison  was  offered  twenty  thousand  a  week  for  her  services. 
That  was  because  her  box-office  value  at  that  time  was  so  great 
that  the  company  could  afford  to  pay  it.  Whether  the  agree- 
ment has  existed  or  not,  it  is  true  that  salaries  have  gone  down 
since  the  days  of  the  Swanson  offer. 

RUTH  CHATTERTON'S  box-office  receipts?  Among  the 
greatest  of  any  cinema  star.  In  three  years  her  pictures 
have  grown  in  popularity  until  Warner  Hros.  signed  her  for 
three-quarters  of  a  million  dollars,  flat,  for  two  years'  work  and 
took  an  option  on  her  for  the  next  two  years  at  a  million. 

"  I've  had  no  battle  with  Paramount,"  she  told  me.  "  I  have 
none  now.  They  have  been  marvelous  to  me.  They  have  given 
me  by  courtesy  what  Warner  Bros,  give  me  by  contract.  All 
except  money.  I  mean,  I  have  sat  in  on  every  story  conference 
— helped  produce  my  own  pictures. 

"  1  i  annot  understand  all  the  excitement  of  this  move!  They 
made  me  an  offer.  I  turned  it  down.  I  took  an  offer  of  twice 
as  much.    Is  there  anything  wrong  in  that? 

"As  for  the  gamble  Paramount  took  on  me? — Of  course  they 
took  a  gamble.    A  tremendous  gamble.     And  I  appreciate  it, 


but  appreciation  does  not  make  me  independent.     Money  does. 
At  the  cud  of  two  years  more  I  (an  really  live  without  working. 

'  It  is  true  that  Paramount  signed  me  when  they  didn't  k; 
whether  I  would  be  a  loss  or  an  a.-^set  to  them.  I  had  been  out 
here  for  months  hunting  work.  I  was  so  broke  that  I  had  to 
borrow  money  from  my  manager  to  live.  In  fact,  I  would  have 
returned  to  Broadway  and  given  up  the  thought  of  pictures  for- 
ever if  it  had  not  been  for  his  faith  in  me. 

*'  I  told  him  I  must  get  work  soon.  My  funds  were  getting 
lower  and  lower.  Months  passed.  'I  will  have  to  go  back  to 
Broadway  while  I  have  enough  to  get  there,'  I  told  my  manager. 
Several  plays  were  offered  me  in  New  York. 

"  Wait!'  he  urged.  'It  is  only  a  matter  of  a  few  months. 
How  much  do  you  need?' 

"  His  belief  was  encouraging — especially  since  it  was  a  belief 
which  went  so  far  as  to  offer  me  money.  I  told  him  I  needed 
SI, 500  a  month  to  live  as  an  actress  should  live  in  Hollywood. 
I  signed  my  contract  in  June,  1°28.  He  had  loaned  me  ST. 5(H). 
It  was  his  belief  which  made  Paramount  gamble.  I  cannot  help 
but  feel  that  my  pictures  have  repaid  Paramount.  It  has  hurt 
more  than  I  like  to  say  that  people  have  said  I  am  ungrateful  to 
those  who  believed  in  me." 

WHAT  is  Ruth  going  to  do  when  her  contract  is  finished? 
"  I  am  going  to  retire.  I  may  produce  a  play  <>ra  picture: 
direct  one,  perhaps.  But  no  more  acting.  Whether  my  con- 
tract lasts  the  four  years  or  ends  with  the  second,  I  will  have 
enough  to  live  in  comfort  the  rest  of  my  life.  The  only  luxury 
I  want  is  complete  comfort. 

"  I' ranee.  A  villa  a  few  miles  from  Paris.  I  have  a  friend 
who  has  one.  Thirty  acres  with  hunting  preserves.  A  house 
which  he  has  made  modern  with  bathrooms  and  furnishings  but 
which  still  has  the  old  medieval  appearance  and  feeling.  And 
what  do  you  suppose  this  place  cost? — "  she  laughed.  "  Includ- 
ing original  purchase  price,  improvements,  furnishings — 
S20.000.  That  is  my  idea  of  luxury.  Servants  at  S25  a  month. 
Time  to  read  and  relax  and  enjoy  while  you  are  still  young 
enough  to  enjoy.  Six  months  in  a  chateau  like  this;  six  months 
in  this  country — California.     Xo  worries — no  responsibilities. 

"  Four  more  years  of  real  work.  Good  pictures.  I  want  to 
make  my  last  three  for  Paramount  my  best  to  date.  I  want 
them  to  make  all  the  money  they  can  from  me.  But  I  am  not 
sorry  about  any  of  the  other — I  appreciate  what  they  did  for 
me.  They  gave  me  the  opportunity  to  retire  in  four  years  and 
live  happily  ever  after.    Which  is  the  dream  of  us  all!" 


Clothes  Habits 
of  Hollywood 


THERK  are  more  freak  ideas  about  off- 
screen clothes  in  Hollywood  than  any 
place  in  the  world.  Read  Ruth  Biery's  amus- 
ing- story  on  the  subject  in  next  month's 
Photoplay. 


^2,000.22 

For  Your 


Picture  Idea 


On  another  page  of  this  magazine  there  is  an  interesting 
story  of  Marian  Marsh  who  is  to  be  cast  as  the  heroine 
of  "Beauty  and  the  Boss."  Keep  her  type  in  mind 
when  thinking  out  your  story.  She  is  a  blonde,  five 
feet,  two,  and  weighs  106  pounds.  She  has  been  a  pro- 
fessional dancer.  Warner  Bros,  are  sure  she  is  going 
to  be  one  of  the  greatest  of  the  dramatic  stars.  John 
Barrymore  himself  chose  her  to  play  Trilby  to  his 
Svengali.  By  the  time  she  starts  making  the  prize  win- 
ning version  of  "Beauty  and  the  Boss"  she'll  be  famous 


ATTENTION,  Photoplay  readers!  Everybody  has  a  story 
in  him.  Yes,  everybody,  and  that  means  you,  and  you,  and 
you,  and  you! 

Warner  Bros,  want  that  story  and  will  pay  $2,000  for  it. 
Preferably,  they  want  a  story  which  will  fit  the  title,  "Beauty  and  the 
Boss,"  but  in  addition  they  may  take  such  additional  stories  up  to  ten 
as  they  deem  suitable,  even  though  they  don't  fit  this  title,  just  so 
long  as  they  are  appealing,  human  and  interesting  stories — and  will 
pay  that  same  $2,000  for  each  one  of  them  accepted. 

Photoplay  is  cooperating  with  Warner  Bros,  to  get  that  story 
through  this  new  and  exciting  contest.  The  rules  of  the  contest  are 
printed  on  another  page.  They  are  simple  and  easy  to  follow.  Read 
them!  And  then,  put  on  your  thinking  caps,  motion  picture  devotees, 
make  this  easy  money. 

Remember,  you  don't  have  to  be  a  literary  genius.  You  don't  have 
to  be  a  great  writer.  But  you  do  have  to  be  original  and  interesting. 
Your  story  needn't  be  profound.  It  needn't  be  built  around  a  serious 
theme.  But  it  must  be  a  good  story,  human,  convincing,  real,  that  will 
make  the  kind  of  a  moving  picture  that  you,  yourself,  would  want  to 
see. 

That  very  story  might  be  written  around  something  in  your  own  life, 
or  something  that  you  yourself  have  observed.  It  might  be  your 
brother's  story,  or  your  mother's,  or  father's,  or  sister's. 

If  it  is,  urge  him,  or  her,  to  write  it;  or,  better  still,  get  together  and 
write  it.  After  all,  this  PnoTOPLAY-Warner  Bros,  contest  is  a  contest 
for  the  whole  family.  It  can  be  made  into  a  fascinating — and  exceed- 
ingly profitable — game. 

In  the  evening,  after  a  good  dinner,  what  could  be  more  fun  than  to 
sit  down  with  the  family  and  write  this  story.  It  might  mean  that  new- 
car,  or  the  payment  on  that  house  in  the  country,  or  even  the  start  of 
your  own  business — the  opening  up  of  an  entirely  new  world. 

'"THINK!  You've  got  that  story  in  you.  Maybe  you've  known  it 
■*-  right  along  and  always  wanted  to  write  it.  Well,  here's  your  big 
chance.    It  may    be  worth  S2.000. 

The  big  cry  in  the  moving  picture  business  today  is  the  cry  for  good, 
interesting  and  original  stories.  There  is  always  a  place  in  the  movies 
for  them.  And  where  could  be  found  a  better  place  to  look  for  them 
than  among  the  readers  of  Photoplay? 

Now,  just  before  >ou  rush  to  your  typewriter,  a  few  hints  and  helps. 
Ik-fore  you  write  your  story  be  sure  that  it  has  never  been  presented  on 
the  screen.  Your  story  must  be  original.  That  will  be  the  biggest 
thing  in  its  favor. 

Be  careful  of  religious  stories,  for  they  might  easily  offend  some  one. 

r.r, 


uee  i  aee  106  r 


or 


$2,000. 00  in  cash  for 
best  story  idea  for 
title  "Beauty  and  the 
Boss."  Equal  amount 
for  other  short  pic- 
ture stories  accepted 


Hold  a  story  conference  with  your  family  or  friends. 
You  may  organize  a  group  and  have  a  regular  once  or 
twice-a-week  talk  on  a  story  to  fit  the  title  "Beauty  and 
the  Boss."  It  suggests  any  number  of  stories  from  life 


* 


lYules   of    v>< 


ontest 


Here's  the  lad  who  is  going  to  play  opposite  Marian 
Marsh  in  the  winning  story.  Is  he  an  actor?  We'll  say 
he  is.  Have  you  seen  him  as  the  Second  Lieutenant  in 
"Journey's  End";  with  Alice  White  in  "Sweet  Mama"; 
or  "The  Right  to  Love"  with  Ruth  Chatterton?  He  is 
29  years  old,  is  six  feet  tall,  weighs  169  pounds,  has 
brown  hair  and  grey-green  eyes 


The  same  thing  applies  to  racial  problems.  Unless  you  can  look  upon 
these  subjects  with  a  broad,  tolerant  and  sympathetic  mind,  steer  clear 
of  them. 

Stories  dealing  with  historic  events  and  characters  arc  always  accept- 
able, but  they  are  so  familiar  and  have  been  done  so  many  times  in  the 
pictures,  that  they  are  apt  to  be  obvious. 

Modern-day  life,  with  all  of  its  variety  of  problems,  problems  which 
confront  every  one  of  us,  offers  unlimited  opportunities  for  dramatic 
and  human  stories. 

Some  problem  of  everyday  life  which  is  of  vital  importance  to  you  at 
this  moment  might  be  the  very  theme  around  which  a  fine  moving 
picture  story  could  be  based. 

CO  think !  Get  that  vital,  moving  story  that  is  in  you  outlined  in  your 
^mind  and  then  go  to  it. 

"  Beauty  and  the  Ross"  suggests  a  theme  (hat  Warner  Bros,  are 
sieking  through  PHOTOPLAY'S  readers.  But  they'll  take  nine  more  if 
they  can  get  satisfactory  ones — ten  stories  altogether!  And  $2,000 
for  each  one! 

To  help  the  contestants  further,  Jacob  Wilk,  manager  of  the  story- 
department  for  Warner  Bros.,  will  write  an  article  for  next  month's 
issue  of  Photoplay,  which  will  contain  suggestions  on  how  to  get 
ideas  for  stories  and  what  types  of  stories  make  the  best  moving  pictures. 

Mr.  Wilk's  expert  suggestions  will  contain  many  hints  and  helps  to 
the  comparatively  inexperienced  writer. 

Past  contests  conducted  by  Photoplay  have  vividly  demonstrated 
the  keen  picture  sense  of  this  magazine's  readers.  Their  letters  to  the 
editor  have  shown  they  know  how  to  criticize  and  that  they  know  the 
difference  between  a  good  picture  and  a  bad  picture. 

Consequently,  this  contest  also  offers  a  further  opportunity  to  show 
that  constructive  spirit  by  writing  the  type  of  screen  story  enjoyed  by 
the  vast  numbers  of  clca..  minded,  human  movie-goers.  Many  times 
you  have  come  home  from  the  theater  and  discussed  the  picture  with 
members  of  your  family.  You  have  told  each  other  how.  in 
opinion,  the  picture  just  seen  could  have  been  made  better. 

X  TOW  you  have  your  opportunity  of  writing  a  better  picture  your- 
self! Not  merely  criticizing  and  rearranging  some  of  the  plot,  but 
writing  an  entirely  new  and  original  story  of  your  own. 

Remember  that  you  don't  have  to  be  a  polished  writer.  You  don't 
have  to  have  a  reputation.  You  just  have  to  be  yourself  and  write  that 
story  you've  got  tucked  away  inside  of  you — straight-forwardly  and 
neatly. 

Read  the  rules  carefully.  They'll  tell  you  everything  and  answer  all 
your  questions.  And  now  go  to  it!  You've  got  plenty  of  time.  Get  to 
work  on  it.    Get  the  whole  family  working  on  it.    And  win  that  $2,000! 


xV   lictorial   V isit  to   Kamon   1\ o 


varro  s 


LIGHTS!  Action!  Camera!— 
The  whole  story  of  the  making  of 
talking   films   is   told   by  this  vivid 
picture  by  Stagg,  Photoplay's  staff  pho- 
tographer in  Hollywood. 

Never  before  has  the  camera  caught  the 
tenseness  of  the  moments  while  the 
cameras  grind  and  the  microphone's 
sensitive  ear  is  alert  as  it  has  in  this  com- 
prehensive view  of  the  making  of  a 
scene  for  "Daybreak,"  Ramon  Xovarro's 
new  picture. 

The  whole  drama  has  been  captured 

6S 


by  our  lens  artist.  The  entire  world  of 
motion  pictures  has  been  enclosed  in  one 
set  that  is  silent  save  for  the  voices  of  the 
actors  and  the  rolling  of  a  drum. 

Let's  examine  the  vibrant  scene  in 
detail:  The  star,  seated  at  the  right,  is 
getting  a  breathing  spell  while  this  scene 
is  being  made  by  his  supporting  troupers. 
Ramon's  playing  an  Austrian  officer  in 
this  romantic  story. 

At  the  left  is  the  director  (seated),  his 
assistants,  and  one  camera  crew,  with  the 
camera     mounted     on     a     rubber-tired 


"dolly"  for  the  making  of  traveling  shots. 

Jacques  Feyder,  director  of  Garbo's 
"The  Kiss,"  is  the  boss.  He's  at  the 
extreme  left,  second  from  the  bottom. 
Crouching  at  his  side  is  his  first  lieuten- 
ant. Just  above  Feyder  stands  the  script 
girl,  watching  the  details  of  the  scene. 

Behind  the  camera  stand  the  other 
members  of  the  staff — technicians,  elec- 
tricians, cameramen  and  assistants. 

Xo  tenser  faces  ever  were  seen  behind 
a  machine  gun  waiting  for  an  enemy 
counter-attack! 


Oct  Du 


M, 


ring  the  IVlaking  of     U  ay  break 


■D 


9  9 


Photo 

by 

Stagg 


There's  one  exception — the  young  gent 
sitting  in  the  easy  chair  in  the  center  of 
the  picture.  He's  either  taking  time  out 
for  injuries  or  waiting  to  rush  into  the  line 
to  replace  a  casualty! 

In  the  center,  with  his  back  to  us, 
stands  another  cameraman.  He's  catch- 
ing the  scene  from  another  angle. 

And,  at  the  right,  the  scene  itself.  The 
young  actor  on  the  table  is  making  an 
impassioned  address  to  the  other  officers, 
evidently  suggesting  that  it  is  sweet  and 
proper    to    die    for    the    Emperor    and 


Country.  The  young  gentleman  with  the 
drum  is  evidently  about  to  let  off  a 
sardonic  thumping  as  soon  as  the  orator 
sits  down  or  is  pushed  off  the  table.  Only 
the  speechmaker  seems  to  be  enjoying 
himself.    The  others  look  plenty  bored. 

Behind  the  camera,  silent  tenseness. 
On  the  set,  life  being  counterfeited  for 
the  amusement  of  millions! 

The  lights  are  blazing.  Across  the 
scene  stretches  one  long  microphone 
boom.  Two  mikes  are  visible— the  ears 
of    the    motion    picture.     And    in    the 


lower  right  hand  corner  young  Mr. 
Xovarro,  taking  his  ease,  has  a  little  smile 
for  himself. 

The  whole  business  of  making  talking 
motion  pictures,  caught  on  one  photo- 
graphic plate. 

And  from  the  wall  at  the  rear  the  late 
Francis  Joseph,  Emperor  of  Austria  and 
King  of  I  lungary.  second  last  of  the  House 
of  Hapsburg  to  reign,  looks  down  upon 
the  scene. 

Probably  wondering  what  in  thunder 
it's  all  about! 

69 


Exploding  the  Garbo  Myth 


By  Katherine  Albert 


jj 


ET'S  get  down  to  brass 
tacks  about  this  mys- 
Itery  woman  of  the 
screen." 

In  the  files  in  our  office  there 
is  one  folder  marked,  "Garbo, 
Greta."  It  lies,  not  at  all  mys- 
teriously, between  "  Gallagher, 
Skeets,"  and  "  Garon,  Pauline" 
and  it  is  full  to  running  over 
with  reams  and  reams  of  printed 
copy  ranging  from  a  magnifi- 
cently beautiful  piece  of  lyrical 
writing  in  a  national  magazine 

(not  usually  concerned  with  picture  people)  to  some  pretty 
cheap  twaddle  in  lesser  publications.  I've  just  re-read  it  all  and 
(although  I  find  much  of  my  own  stuff  there)  I'm  pretty  dog- 
gone bored. 

Do  hear  me  out — then  dust  off  the  old  family  shotgun,  pre- 
pare the  burning  oil,  excavate  the  Spanish  torture  chambers  and 
do  with  me  as  you  will.    I've  simply  got  to  say  it. 

I'm  bored  with  Garbo!  And  I  believe  that  because  I'm  a 
fairly  average  person  with  fairly  average  tastes  there  must  be 
others  like  me.  I'm  not  alone  in  my  heresies.  At  least  I  find 
company  in  Hollywood. 

Here  are  the  facts:  Great  directors  and  executives  of  the 
cinema  who  once  hailed  Garbo  as  the  Bernhardt,  the  Duse,  the 
Mrs.  Siddons  of  the  screen  have  confided  (behind  locked  doors 
and  in  whispers)  that  Garbo  is  no  great  shakes  as  an  actress. 

Co-workers  of  the  famous  star  who  once  alluded  to  her  deep 
silences  and  aloofness  as  the  epitome  of  mental  brilliance  now 
admit  (also  behind  locked  doors 
and  also  in  whispers)   that,  in 
reality,  Garbo  is  phlegmatic. 

And  others  say  (but  very  dis- 
creetly, mind  you)  that  what  has 
been  called  her  great  artistry  is 
no  more  or  less  than  a  facial  trick 
which  in  some  way  piques  the 
imagination. 

Well,  let's  analyze  the  thing 
and  sec  where  we  get  and  what  I 
get  (besides  a  hand  grenade 
hurled  through  my  bedroom 
window). 


HER  artistry?  Listen!  This 
occurred  on  the  set  while 
Garbo  was  making  "Romance." 
Do  you  remember  the  scene 
where  Garbo,  as  the  great  singer, 
interrupts  an  amorous  moment 
to  listen  to  an  organ  grinder  on 
the  street  below?  She  throws 
him  some  money  from  her  bag. 

Gavin  Gordon,  as  her  lover, 
objects  and  asks  her  why  she 
made  such  a  gesture.  And  the 
Diva  shrugs  her  shoulders  and 
says,  in  effect,  "Why  not?  We 
are  one — he  and  I.  Do  we  not 
both  make  music?"  It  was,  of 
course,  one  of  the  most  charming 
lines  in  "Romance"  and  the 
complete  tip-off  on  the  singer's 
character,  one  of  those  beautiful 
bits  that  make  a  character  live. 

But  Garbo,  herself,  objected 
to  that  line.  "It  is  silly,"  she 
said.  "It  means  nothing.  I 
would   never  say   a   thing  like 


A  veteran  picture 
writer  and  critic 
expresses  her 
opinion.  And  now 
for  the  fireworks 


Is  she  a  mystery  woman  or  like  your  next- 
door  neighbor?    The  writer,  who  knows  her, 
says  there  is  no  mystery  about  her 


that."  And  only  by  their  cod- 
dling her  petulance  and  doing 
the  scene  once  her  way  and 
once  the  right  way  was  she 
persuaded  to  go  on.  She  still 
thought  it  a  stupid,  ridiculous 
line. 

Does  such  an  attitude  give 
you  an  impression  of  a  finely 
attuned,  sensitive  woman,  a 
great  artist  with  a  great  love  of 
life,  a  perceptive,  rich  char- 
acter?   I  think  not. 

Her  brilliance?  With  the 
exception  of  her  bald  statements,  "Garbo  likes"  or  "Garbo 
does  not  like,"  I  believe  I'm  safe  in  saying  that  Garbo  has  never 
expressed  an  opinion.  I  remember  in  the  early  days  when  she 
was  first  beginning  her  amazing  career  and  I  was  in  the  pub- 
licity department  I  used  to  go  out  on  the  set  with  what  is  called 
a  symposium  idea.  This  means  that  a  writer  for  a  magazine  or 
newspaper  had  requested  that  I  ask  the  stars  for  certain  of  their 
opinions  on  various  subjects.  I  grant  you  that  some  of  these 
"ideas"  were  pretty  terrible,  but  others  there  were  that  might 
have  promoted  a  little  interesting  discussion. 

INVARIABLY  Garbo  said,  "  Oh,  dot's  silly.  I  do  not  want  to 
be  quoted."  That  was  all  right  and  she  was,  in  those  days,  just 
beginning  to  build  up  that  tremendous  reputation  of  mystery. 
We  weren't  anxious  to  have  Garbo  quoted,  either,  but  I  used  to 
say,  "Very  well,  you  won't  be  quoted,  but  just  between  our- 
selves what  do  you  really  think  about  the  question?"     And 

Garbo  always  answered,  "Dot's 
silly." 

Her  intellectual,  lonely  life?  A 
very  excellent  reporter  trailed 
Garbo  for  one  day  and  recounted 
her  activities.  The  story  was 
good  because  it  was  about  Garbo, 
but  stripped  to  the  bare  facts,  it 
was  the  most  average  twenty- 
four  hours  you  can  imagine.  She 
dined  at  a  little  Mexican  restaur- 
ant (where  many  stars  go  and 
continue  to  go)  with  a  friend, 
attended  a  puppet  show  with 
him  and  the  next  day  went  to  a 
party  which  was  also  attended 
by  a  large  portion  of  Hollywood's 
foreign  colony.  But  you  thought 
Garbo  didn't  go  out?  You 
thought  she  didn't  like  people 
and  parties?  Uh-huh.  The 
twenty-four  hours  with  Garbo 
was  as  dull  and  ordinary  as 
twenty-four  hours  with  your 
next-door  neighbor. 

NOBODY  has  ever  had  such  a 
place  in  the  film  firmament. 
Nobody  has  ever  had  such  a  hold 
on  theimaginationsof  thepeople. 
Garbo  has  been  publicized  as 
not  liking  people,  not  liking 
parties,  not  liking  to  go  out,  not 
liking  Hollywood.  I  saw  her  one 
evening  at  one  of  the  most  select 
and  brilliant  of  gatherings.  The 
few  people  there  were  the  real 
intellectuals  of  the  colony  and 
not  a  word  of  the  banal  chatter 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  98  ] 


70 


N*a 


w  it  s 


B 


obby  Googan 


NO  sir — you  can't  keep  the  junior 
Coogans  off  the  screen! 

So  we  might  as  well  introduce 
Jackie's  little  brother  Robert,  half-past 
rive,  now  under  contract  to  Paramount 
and  playing  Sooky  in  the  production  of 
"Skippy." 

There  they  are.  up  above,  very  brother- 
ly and  nice.  Once  a  Coogan.  always  an 
actor,  the  copy  book  now  says. 

Pa  Coogan  didn't  want  it  so.  Neither 
did  Mother  Coogan.  They  figured  that 
Jackie  was  enough  kid  actor  for  one  tidy 
little  family — millionaires  after  his  long 
and  successful  career  as  a  youthful  star. 

But  the  trouper  blood  will  out. 


Dad  Coogan  took  young  Bobby  by  the 
hand  one  day  last  summer  and  led  him 
to  the  Paramount  Studio  to  see  Jack 
make  a  scene  for  "Tom  Sawyer." 

"I  want  to  play  in  pictures!''  remarked 
Robert,  apropos  of  nothing  much. 

"Son."  said  his  father,  "you  can  be  a 
fireman,  or  a  policeman,  or  President  of 
the  United  States.     But  actor — a 

Paramount  needed  a  tot  to  play 
Sooky. 

The  part  was  difficult  to  cast.  Skippy 
himself  was  to  be  played  by  Jackie 
Cooper,  an  "Our  Gang"  alumnus. 

v  >(-v  presented  difficulties.  He's  a 
sad-eyed,    bedraggled   little   mite.      One 


day  Jack  brought  Robert  to  the  studio, 
and  Director  Norman  Taurog  asked  him 
if  he  wanted  to  play  in  '"Skippy."  Bob, 
thinking  it  was  a  new  game,  said 
And  before  he  knew  it,  he  was  tested  and 
accepted  for  the  part,  and  signed  at  a 
fat  salary.    For  isn't  he  a  royal  Coogan? 

Bobby  is  now  exactly  as  old  as  Jackie 
was  when  the  latter  became  famous  in 
"The  Kid."  He  has  the  same  enormous 
and  wistful  eyes — the  same  childish 
helplessness  that  made  twenty  million 
women  want  to  take  the  five-year-old 
Jackie  to  their  hearts. 

Will  history  repeat  itself  once  more? 
Keep  your  eye  on  Bobby! 


The  Absent  Minded  Movie  Usher  Getting  Married — 
"Seats  without  waiting  in  the  balcony,  sir!" 

Our  Garbo* 

Twinkle,  twinkle,  little  Garbo 
How  we  wonder  who  you  arc! 

Up  above  us  all  so  high, 

Like  a  moonbeam  there  you  lie. 

That  mysterious  way  of  yours 
And  eyes  that  many  adore. 

Please  show  us  "Inspiration," 
We  all  support  your  station. 

And  you  who  like  the  rain  so  well, 
Come  to  Portland,  it  is  swell! 

(*Ed.  Note.  This  poem  by  Miss  H.  B.  of  Portland,  Ore.,  is 
selected  as  the  outstanding  Garbo  tribute  of  the  month.  But 
what  looks  like  a  gratuitous  sock  at  Portland's  climate  is 
respectfully  referred  to  the  Chamber  of  Commerce  of  that  up 
and  coming  city.) 

Anything  for  a  Snicker 

Soon  after  the  Buster  Kcaton-Kathleen  Key  Scratch-and- 
Screech  thing,  Sidney  Skolskv,  of  the  New  York  Dailv  News, 
addressed  this  wire  to  the  comic— "HEAR  YOU  ARE  OFF 
KEY."  .  .  .  Hollywood  reports  that  a  pall  of  smoke  has  been 
hanging  over  the  district  recently,  hampering  the  making  of 
outdoor  shots.  Undoubtedly  the  smoke  of  burning  options. 
.  .  .  Connie  Bennett  is  said  to  rate  S800  every  working  hour 
under  an  agreement  with  Warner  Bros.,  establishing  a  new- 
union  scale  for  high-powered  blondes.  What  I'm  sore  about  is 
that  she  doesn't  get  a  cent  for  dull  Sunday  afternoons.  .  .  . 
Fountain  pen  pistols  are  reported  being  sold  in  Hollywood,  but 
that's  nothing  new.  Why,  the  old-fashioned  fountain  pen  has 
shot  many  a  star  dead  out  there!  .  .  .  The  first  all-Greek  talk- 
ing picture  has  been  made  in  New  York.  This  is  not  to  be 
confused  with  some  of  the  mouth-full-of-oatmeal  talkies  made 
in  English  studios.  .  .  .  Mitzi  Green,  the  kid  phenom,  has  been 
insured  for  SI. 000,000.  O  Death,  where  is  thy  sting?  .  .  .  The 
talkie  sensation  of  Yienna  just  now  is  "Drei  von  der  Tank- 

72 


%eli 

Around 


ng 


with 

Leonard 
Hall 


steller,"  which  seems  to  mean  "Three  from  the  Filling- 
Station."  Now  for  a  sequel  entitled  "And  Just  Look  at  the 
Tires,  Too,  Ed."  .  .  .  Gary  Cooper  has  just  burst  out  with  a 
canary  colored  car  with  pale — ah,  so  pale! — green  trimmings. 
Add  Lupe  and  a  dash  of  bitters,  shake  well,  and  get  a  Beverly 
Hills  cocktail.    Heigho!    Great  place,  Hollywood! 


The  Gag  of  the  Month  Club 

This  month's  prize  goes,  without  a  tussle,  to  Oscar  Levant, 
composer  who  has  written  the  scores  for  many  Radio 
Pictures. 

Oscar  is  sitting  in  a  Hollywood  beanery,  assaulting  a 
poached  egg  when  a  flip  extra  girl  from  the  home  lot  swishes 
by. 

"Hello,  baby!"  she  says. 

Oscar  fixes  her  with  a  song-writer's  eye  and  says:  "Mr. 
Baby  to  you!" 

Getting  Personal 

Serge  Eisenstein,  noted  Russian  director  now  south  of  the 
Rio  Grande  shooting  pictures,  had  a  terrible  time  persuading 
Mexicans  and  the  Mexican  government  that  he  wasn't  Dr. 
Albert  Einstein,  the  big  relativity  man.  .  .  .  Two  months  ago 
Senor  Torres  Arias  was  in  New  York  looking  over  pictures  to 
buy  for  his  Teatro  Yariedades,  Panama.  Today  he  is  President 
of  the  Republic  of  Panama.  Boy,  a  couple  of  the  same!  .  .  . 
Evelyn  Laye,  co-star  of  "One  Heavenly  Night,"  gets  a  divorce 
from  Sonny  Hale,  London  song  and  dance  man,  who  the  next 
day  marries  the  corespondent,  Miss  Jessie  Mathews,  of  the 
stage.  .  .  .  Pearl  White,  who  has  been  in  Paris  trying  to  crash 
French  talkies,  has  returned  to  Egypt  defeated,  accompanied 
by  her  rubies.  .  .  .  Oh,  these  Cubans!  One  Havana  paper 
expressed  sadness  about  the  visiting  Nancy  Carroll,  calling  her 
"a  disappointment  for  the  fans  because  she  even  got  freckles." 
Our  adorable  Nancy!  And  those  are  the  people  we  freed!  .  .  . 
A  book  on  philosophy  by  the  late  Milton  Sills  is  awaiting  pub- 
lication. .  .  .  Georovesti,  a  Roumanian  hamlet,  recently  saw 
its  first  movie.  Twelve  peasants  were  hurt  in  a  mad  rush  for 
the  exits  when  a  locomotive  seemed  to  be  rushing  right  upon 
them  from  the  screen.  The  only  wreck  was  the  interior  of  the 
theater.  ...  A  big  winter  for  Carl  Laemmle — "Uncle  Carl" 
of  Universal  these  many  years.  He  has  just  celebrated  his 
sixty-third  birthday,  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  his  entry 
into  the  picture  business,  and  the  fifteenth  anniversary  of  the 
founding  of  Universal  City.  .  .  .  George  O'Brien  and  John 
Ford,  Fox  director,  have  left  Hollywood  for  a  two-months'  tour 
of  the  Orient.  .  .  .  Mary  Nolan,  high-powered  blonde,  now 
has  a  body-guard  in  Hollywood.  He's  Ray  Robertson,  her 
brother,  formerly  a  motorcycle  cop.  .  .  .  Mary  Pickford  is 
mentioned  again  as  a  Broadway  starring  possibility,  this  time 
in  a  show  for  William  A.  Brady.  They'll  hoist  her  behind  the 
footlights  yet.  .  .  .  Gloria  Swanson  has  added  a  fully  equipped 
private  theater  to  her  Beverly  Hills  home.  Iv  is  wired  for 
sound.  .  .  .  Anita  Page  still  set  at  Metro.  Contract  renewed 
for  another  year.  .  .  .  Sylvia  Sidney,  who's  getting  a  big 
Paramount  play,  appeared  in  Fox's  "Thru  Different  Eyes," 
and  caused  no  stir. 


Photopi  \\  Ma(.\/im   i 01  April,  V    I 


73 


Wil  11  «i  «'  ■•  !►  i     I  •  • 


5 


Itlol*  ••• 


I  oil  iiioii  I  •  • 


D 


I»4»^<»|  ## 


I 


Ju  iont« 


J/Fl/si u> cslaJuc    ivcmvctv   c-tvc    7/ic    beauty 
aiu/fc    catc_^y 


Mi  •   li. Id  \  anderti 

'  rloria  Morgan    »  if  l»  i  ■ 

•  ran  tbt 
■ 
thing  I pan  a  "ii  Pond'af" 


Mi      \ Morgan   dan 

..i  ii,.   Uu  J    P    Morgan    it 
known  for  I"  •  ■  U 
eomplt  lion    Bha  -.■>        I 
hai  •   ox  -i  Pond      fot  *rori." 


I*jul\  \  ioli  i  \-i'n   daughu  f  "I 
an  I  . •  r I    li.i-  \  iolel'bltU    I 

ami  a  roee-leal  ikin,  Bhe  •  alia 

I'iiihI  -  four  pn  par.. I Ii- 

lij'lii  lul     |tr.i<  in  .il     i  lli-iln.il." 


Mr-.  Morgan  Belroool  haa 
'1  iti. in  hair  and  hror)  -Lm. 
Mm  nyi:    Pond't  Method  »ill 
keep  roar  akin  elear  and  iresh 
in  leai  '  Boat " 


Mr-    Anthonj  J    Dresel,  Jr.  it 
the  daughter  ol  the  late  Mr. 

anil  Mr-.  George  J.  (.mild. 
She  follow!  Pond't  Method  and 
■avai    Pond  -  i-  wonderful  I M 


Mn.  Alfred  Victor  ilu  Pom  i» 
a  blondr   with  i\i| li-  -km. 

She  ii-ii  Pond't  becauae  ihey 

ari-  '  pun  and  good  and  keep 

kin  ulw.i\  -  al   it-  l.»  -I 


THINK  how  significant  it  i-  that  these 
m\  aristocratic  women,  t"  whom  no 
lu\ur\  i-  ever  denied,  agree  in  choosing 
for  the  care  of  their  Bkin  tin-  simplest  and 
best  of  all   beauty   preparations  —  Pond's. 

Cost  is  a  matter  of  complete  indifference 
to  these  women.  Qualm  is  everything.  For 
in  their  prominent  position  a  perfectly- 
groomed  complexion  i.-  essential — it  is  the 
lirst  social  requisite. 

They  choose  Pond's  because  these  four 
famous  preparations  an-  the  purest  ami  finest 
to  In-  hail  despite  their  democratic  simplicity 
and  modest  price.  The]  are  man  elous  to  give 
tli  -km  tin'  perfect  cleansing  ami  protection 
it  must  have  to  keep  it  always  exquisite. 

Pond's  Method — Four  swift,  simple 
steps,  followed  faithfully  even  day,  assure 
the  radiant  charm  of  your  complexion: 

1 — Dunn;:   the   dav.   for  thorough   cleans- 


PON  D 


ing,    apply    Pond's 

(  old  <  n  Mm  -•  \  era! 

times,  always  after 

exposure. Pal  in  u  ith 

up*  ard,   out  ward 

strokes,   waiting   t" 

ht  tin-  line  oil-  -ink 

nun  tin-   pores,  and  float  all  the   Hogged 

dust,  dirt  and  griinr  up  to  tin-  -urface. 

2  —  W  ipe  away  with  Pond's  Tissues,  softer, 
more  absorbent.  Peach  color  ami  white. 

3  —  I'ai  briskly  with  Pond's  Skm  Freshener 
to  banish  oiliness,  close  ami  reduce  pores, 

tone.  linn,  promote  lovel]  natural  color. 

4 — Smooth  on  Pond's  N  Brushing  Cream 
for  powder  base,  protection,  exquisite  finish. 
I  •  it  not  only  on  the  face,  hut  wherever 
you  powder  .  .  .  arm*,  shoulders,  neck. 
Marvelous  to  keep  your  hand-  soft,  white. 
unchapped.   Use  always  after  washing. 


FOUR       DELIGHTFUL       PREPARATIn.    - 

\t  bedtime:  Never  fail  to  cleanse  your  face 
and  neck  with  <  old  <  ream  ami  Tissui 

•       •       • 

Tuns   in  on   Pond't   Afternoon    I 
Tuesday  afternoon  at  .>  /'.    U — /.    S.  7". 
/       Reisman's  Orchestra,   Leading  Society 
Women  Speakers.    A.  />'.  C  ffeoi  Network. 

Se>d  lf»r  for  Pond's   I  Preparation 

Pond-.  F-.ir.ci  Co..  DrPt.  R     114    Hatbea  St.. H.  T.  C 


Na 


CoGTTwbt.  1«31.  Poid'p  E«tr»i-"  ■ 


74 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


RICHARD  DK 

R.  K.  O. 

Radio  Pictures'  Star 

Learn  the  Complexion  Secret 
9  out  of  io  lovely  Screen  Stars  know 

''  I  ^HE  woman  who  wants  to  keep  her  charm 
JL  must  keep  her  youth!"  says  Richard  Dix  .  .  . 
star  of  the  R.  K.  O.  production,  "Cimarron." 

"And  certainly  there  seems  to  be  no  reason 
these  days  to  lose  this  endearing  charm!  Every 
day  here  in  Hollywood  I  meet  actresses  no 
longer  young  as  birthdays  go,  but  still  radiantly 
attractive— still  with  that  compelling  something 
that  causes  all  the  damage  to  men's  hearts. 

"Every  woman  should  learn  the  complexion 
secret  these  screen  stars  know!" 

The  stars  do  know  the  secret  of  growing  lovelier 
each  year — birthdays  hold  no  terrors  for  them. 

"Regular  care  with  Lux  Toilet  Soap  is  the 
secret,"  famous  screen  beauties  will  tell  you. 
"This  lovely  soap  keeps  skin  youthfully  aglow." 
605  of  the  613  important  Hollywood  actresses 
have  used  it,  regularly,  for  years ! 

Hollywood,  Broadway,  European  stars  find 
Lux  Toilet  Soap  perfect  for  every  type  of  skin! 

Because  they  are  so  dependent  on  it,  this  fra- 
grant white  soap  is  found  in  theaters  every- 
where—is official  in  all  film  studios. 

Your  skin  will  love  it,  too! 


The  caress  of  dollar-a-cake 

French  soap 


Lux 


Pbotoot  n   M  \i.\/im   i  os  Aran.,  1     I 


W 


(below) 
ESTELLE   TAYLOR, 
beautiful  star,  another 
of  the  605  important 
Hollywood  actresses 
who  use  this  soap.  She 
says:  "A  star  must  have 
beautiful  skin.  Lux 
Toilet  Soap  is  a  boon 
to   me   in   keeping    my 
skin  heavenly  smooth." 


(above) 

IRENE  DUNNE, 
delightful  Radio 
Pictures'  star 
who  came  to  the 
screen  from  the 
stage,  says  enthu- 
siastically: "Lux 
Toilet  Soap  is 
marvelous  for 
the  flawless  skin 
the  close-ups 
require!" 


Toilet  Soap. .10*? 


A  Twelve-Year   Miracle   in   Hollywood! 


MB     ' .  "■  *  IS 


At  the  left  is  the  only  real 
snow  storm  ever  photo- 
graphed in  a  little  California 
town  called  Hollywood.  The 
gentleman  is  Director  Wil- 
liam Beaudine.  The  lady, 
then  an  actress  in  Christie 
Comedies,  is  now  Mrs.  M. 
C.  Levee,  wife  of  a  Para- 
mount executive.  And  the 
scene  —  Hollywood  Boule- 
vard and  Vine  Street,  hub 
of  the  film  colony,  as  it 
appeared  twelve  years  ago, 
with  the  famous  pepper 
trees.  Look  above!  The 
same  corner  today,  busy 
and  metropolitan.  At  left 
center,  the  Taft  Building. 
The  white  line  marks 
PHOTOPLAY'S  Offices 


P 


*r 


PH0T0P1  av    M  \c.\/im     l  OB    . \  1  ■  k 1 1  ,    1       1 


77 


Bright  April  D 

need never*  - 

never  facte 


For  the  Saline  Method  brings  new 
youth  and  beauty 

MAKERS  of  lotions  and  creams- 
how  essential  you  are!  Your  deli- 
cate blends,  your  pure  and  lovely  prod- 
ucts are  vital  to  the  loveliness  of  women. 

But  in  spite  of  all  the  good  your 
products  do,  there  is  a  radiance— a  clar- 
ity of  complexion,  that  can  only  come 
from  within.  For  all  the  good  of  creams 
is  undone  unless  the  woman  who  uses 
them  keeps  herself  internally  clean. 

She  who  would  guard  her  complex- 
ion, who  would  retain  her  youth,  her 
sparkle  and  her  charm,  should  turn  to 
salines  to  assist  her  creams  and  lotions. 
She  should  know  Sal  Hepatica.  For  Sal 
Hepatica  insures  that  internal  cleanli- 
ness which  is  the  source  of  health  and 
line  complexions. 

How  well  the  women  of  Europe  know 


the  virtues  of  the  saline  method!  Each 
season's  end  sees  the  beauties  of  Paris, 
of  Vienna,  of  England  turning  to  the 
famous  spas — there  to  drink  in  new 
youth,  new  loveliness  from  the  health- 
springs  of  Vichy,  Wiesbaden,  Aix. 


Sal  HcPatica 


For  saline  waters  sweep  away  impuri- 
ties from  the  blood.  Headaches, 
rheumatism,  colds  — acidity,  digestive 
troubles — yield  to  this  new  cleanliness 
within.  Youthful  sparkle  and  loveliness 
come  back  again. 

Physicians,  here  and  abroad,  have 
long  prescribed  the  saline  way  of  cleans- 
ing the  system.  And  Sal  Hepatica  is  the 
American  version  of  the  saline  method. 

Today— get  a  bortle  of  Sal  Hepatica. 
For  one  whole  week,  keep  perfectly  clean 
inn  rnally.  Feel  youth  come  singing  into 
your  veins — watch  radiance  reappear  in 
your  face.  See  how  your  skin  clears. 

Send  for  our  free  booklet,  "To  Clarice 
in  quest  of  her  youth,"  which  explains 
the  saline  path  to  beauty  and  health. 

•  *  • 

Brjstol-Myers  Co ..  Dept.  G-41.  71  West  St..  N  Y 
Kindly  send  me  the  free  booklet,  "To  Clarice  in  quest 
of  her  youth."  which  explains  the  many  benefits  of 

Sal  Hepatica. 


Same- 


Strata 


StMU. 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


|  CONTINUED  FROU  PACE  45 


International 


Guess!  The  Russian  boots,  the 
mass  of  orchids,  the  face — 
you're  right!  It's  Pola  Negri,  in 
London  to  open  a  vaudeville  en- 
gagement. Doesn't  our  girl 
friend  look — er — plump? 


at  nine-thirty  for  photographs  that  morning. 
She  refused  point  blank.  The  hour  was  "un- 
godly." They  changed  it  to  ten-thirty.  She 
agreed  but  failed  to  appear.  She  promised  to 
come  an  extra  day  when  the  picture  was  fin- 
ished. They  called  for  four  w-eeks,  then  gave 
up  the  ghost  and  did  without  the  pictures. 

Furthermore,  she  was  aloof  on  the  set,  ritzed 
the  other  players  and  made  herself  so  generally 
disliked  that  to  mention  the  name  Bennett  on 
that  lot  is  to  bring  forth  a  good  old-fashioned 
razzberry! 

Perhaps  the  wisecracker  who  remarked  that 
a  new  haberdashery  was  needed  in  Hollywood 
to  provide  hats  big  enough  for  Miss  Bennett 
wasn't  such  a  wisecracker  after  all! 

T  UPE  VELEZ,  the  Riot  of  the  Rio  Grande, 
■^is  a  free-lance  actress  now. 

Universal  didn't  take  up  its  option  on  Lupe, 
and  when  she  finishes  work  in  "The  Squaw 
Man''  for  Metro,  she'll  be  on  the  loose  among 
the  studios. 

And  there'll  be  probably  plenty  of  takers  for 
her  stormy  services  on  the  lots. 

'"-THE  ROYAL  BED,"  the  Lowell  Sherman- 
*■  Mary    Astor   mythical    kingdom   picture 
which  has  been  shown  here  and  there,  hasn't 
a  sign  of  a  bed  in  it — royal  or  otherwise. 

78 


There's  a  royal  desk,  in  the  film — but  no 
one  curls  up  on  a  desk  but  a  newspaper  man 
after  a  rough  night. 

There  have  been  so  many  squawks  that  Radio 
Pictures,  the  producers,  are  going  to  release 
it  under  another  name  from  now  on.  How 
about  "No  Royal  Beds"? 

piFI  DORSAY  admits  that  she  packed  the 
■*-  theaters  during  her  recent  appearance  tour. 
"They  shouldn't  haf  sent  me.  I  make  so 
good,  I  come  home  and  demand  that  they 
pay  me  much  more  money." 

She  played  her  home  town  of  Montreal.  At 
first,  the  city  of  her  birth  made  fun  of  her  and 
refused  to  acclaim  her  because  she  had  said 
she  came  from  Paris.  "Was  she  ashamed  of 
us?"  the  papers  questioned.  But  Fifi  made  a 
public  apology,  explaining  that  she  only  did  as 
her  managers  ordered,  and  Montreal  forgave. 

"They  forgave  so  much  that  I  never  knew 
a  person  could  have  so  many  relatives.  We 
did  not  have  half  so  much  at  the  funeral  when 
my  mother  and  father  died.  I  had  eight  grand- 
mothers! So  I  took  my  one  own  grandmother 
to  the  show  and  introduced  her." 


The  vivacious  Fifi  also  kissed  the  boys  in 
the  audience  until  the  censors  came  in  and 
stopped  her. 

Then  she  kissed  the  old  men. 

Incidentally,  she  met  Fred  Berrens,  her 
fiance.  "I  meet  him  only  to  find  I  don't 
love  him.     I  am  now  free  lancing  in  love!" 

A  successful  trip,  all  around,  we  take  it! 

pEVERELL  MARLEY  admits  that  he  still 
■L  loves  his  former  wife,  Lina  Basquette,  and 
that  there  may  be  a  reconciliation  in  the 
immediate  future. 

"She  is  the  most  wonderful  girl  on  earth. 
Yes,  I  still  care  for  her.  I  wouldn't  be  sur- 
prised if  we  went  back  together  again." 

He  was  behind  the  cameras,  where  Lina 
found  him.  He  is  photographing  the  German 
version  of  "The  Big  House."  He  admitted 
that  he  could  never  be  a  hoofer,  a  dancing 
partner  for  Lina  as  she  had  desired. 

A  LICE  WHITE'S  situation  is  one  of  the 
•**-main  topics  of  Hollywood  inner  politics. 
Her  name  was  billed  down  in  "The  Widow  from 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  80  ] 


Preston  Duncan 


Did  you  ever  see  a  cuter  picture  of  a  fuzzy-headed  youngster  than 
this?  We  presume  to  doubt  it,  though  we  won't  start  an  argument. 
This  sparkling-eyed  tike  is  Master  Richard  Blue,  son  of  our  old 
friend  Monte,  who  was  a  star  for  years.  Dick  is  happy,  because 
Dad's  acting  in  talkies  now 


PhOTOPI  W    M  \i.  \.mm     i  OR    Ai'Kii 


DR.     MI  IN     ROGERS,     Ph.D. 

University  of  Pennsylvania;  Member  American 
Chemical  Engineers;  awarded  Grazclli  Medal, 
Author  Manual  of  Indusrrial  Chemistry; 
Director  Department  of  Industrial  Chemistry, 
Pratt  Institute,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


JEROMBALBX  \M)I  R,  R.S.,M.Sc; 

Fellow  American  Association  for  Advancement 
ofScience;  McmberAmerican  Institute 
Chemical  Engineers;  Author  "Colloid  Chem- 
istry;'" Pioneer  worker  with  the  Uluamicroscopc; 
Specialist  in  Colloid  Chemistry. 


DR.  HARDEE  CHAMBLISS,  F'h.D. 

Dean  of  School  of  Sciences.  Catholic  University 
of  America,  Washingron,  D.  C;  Member  Amer- 
ican Chemical  Society;  American  Institute  of 
Chemical  Engineers;  Society  Chemical  Industry 
ot  England. 


Why  these  three  great  scientists 
publicly  approve  Colgate's 


A  group  of  highly  distinguished 
American  scientists  explain  why 
Colgate's  penetrating  foam 
cleans  teeth  better. 


Three  great  scientists  take  the  stand  to 
t.ilk  about  toothpastes!  And  all  three 
publicly  approve  Colgate's! 

Dr.  Hardee  Chambliss,  world- 
famous  scientist;  Dr.  Allen  Rogers, 
research  scientist  of  renown;  Jerome 


Alexander,  consultant.  These  and  other 
outstanding  American  scientists  have 
recently  performed  an  unique  experi- 
ment. 

They  have  examined,  tested,  analyzed 
a  series  of  modern  toothpastes.  And 
they  have  come  to  the  unanimous  con- 
clusion that  Colgate's  is  superior. 

Let  them  say  why.  "Colgate's,"  says 
Dr.  Hardee  Chambliss,  "has  greater 
cleansing  ability." 

"It  has  no  equal  as  a  cleansing  denti- 
frice," Dr.  Rogers  announces  after  tests, 
"because  it  has  the  ability  to  get  into 


crevices  between  the  teeth  and  remove 
decaying  food." 

And  Jerome  Alexander  speaks  for 
his  colleagues  when  he  lauds  Colgate's 
special  ability  to  flood  away  the  im- 
purities  which   cause   tooth    troubles. 

During  its  30  years,  Colgate's  has 
been  more  universally  recommended 
than  any  other  dentifrice.  More  people 
use  it  than  any  other. 

Scientific  approval  is  reason  enough 
for  you  to  use  Colgate's.  The  price  is 
another  reason  —  since  this  superior 
toothpaste  sells  for  only  25c  the  tube. 


FREE^ 


COLGATE.  Dtp-  M  1030.  P.  O. 
ox  375.  Grand  Central  Post 
Office.  New  York  City.  Please  send  me  a  free  rube 
of  Colgate's  Ribbon  Dental  Cream,  with  booklet, 
"How  to  Keep  Teeth  and  Mouth  Healthy." 


Addreii . 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast   from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  78 


International 

Something  new  in  the  goggle 
line.  Estelle  Taylor  demon- 
strates the  new  race-track  or 
opera  glasses,  which  are  worn 
like  spectacles.  The  near- 
sighted can  use  them  for  any 
purpose 


Chicago"  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  she  gave 
one  of  her  best  performances.  A  fan  wrote 
her  from  Washington,  D.  C,  that  he  went  in  to 
see  "Naughty  Flirt"  on  the  opening  night 
without  knowing  that  any  other  woman  but 
Myrna  Loy  was  in  it  but  that  the  reviews  in 
the  papers  gave  Alice  White  the  credit. 

This  matter  of  blacklisting  has  always  been 
a  mythical  proposition. 

Alice  was  called  to  one  studio  for  a  test 
after  she  left  Warners. 

When  she  returned  to  ask  about  it,  she  was 
told  it  was  satisfactory  but  they  could  not 
use  her  until  she  had  made  a  picture  elsewhere. 

She  made  no  more  tests  for  large  companies 
until  after  Ruth  Chatterton  signed  with 
Warners.  Then  she  made  a  test  for  Para- 
mount and  has  since  made  three  for  M-G-M 
where  she  is  being  seriously  considered  for 
the  lead  in  "Cheri-Bibi."  The  other  com- 
panies are  said  to  have  considered  it  a  breach 
of  etiquette  for  Warners  to  sign  Ruth  Chat- 
terton. 

Evidently  the  other  companies  have  decided 
that  this  means  a  lifting  of  any  ban  against 
Alice! 

ANN  HARDING'S  troubles  with  Pathe 
are  on  the  way  to  complete  patching,  if 
they  aren't  quite  smoothed  out  already. 

Some  Hollywoodians  remember  that  Ann 
also  kicked  up  a  fuss  about  making  "Holiday" 
— her  greatest  hit  to  date — and  that  she  in- 
sisted on  helping  with  the  direction. 

They  hope  she  will  not  make  the  mistake 
others  have  made,  in  trying  to  direct  as  well 
as  act. 

Miss  Harding  is  under  contract  to  Pathe 
until  early  in  1932. 

While  she  is  now  getting  SI, 300  a  week — not 
big  star  money — it  is  recalled  that  her  hus- 

80 


band,  Harry  Bannister,  is  also  being  carried 
by  Pathe  at  SI, 000  a  week,  and  he  doesn't 
work  for  weeks  at  a   time. 

Moreover,  Pathe  says  they  gave  Ann  a 
bonus  of  about  S20,000  when  she  was  out  on 
loan  to  Fox  to  make  "East  Lynne." 

Hope  Ann  isn't  losing  her  head.  She  has  a 
chance  to  be  one  of  our  very  greatest  stars — 
if  she  just  doesn't  get  too  ambitious. 

CHARLES  (EX-BUDDY)  ROGERS  stands 
at  the  crisis  of  his  screen  career. 

From  now  on  he'll  have  to  act.  He  knows  it, 
and  is  working  harder  than  ever  before. 

A  year  ago  he  was  the  flappers'  idol.  They 
flocked  to  see  his  pictures,  they  mobbed 
theaters  where  he  was  appearing  in  person. 
A  few  months  ago,  and  very  suddenly,  Buddy 
found  himself  on  the  chutes. 

Paramount  gave  him  a  new  contract  be- 
fore the  old  one  expired — S3, 000  a  week,  and 
more  for  his  personal  appearances.  Now  he's 
got  to  fight  for  his  place  in  the  screen  world. 

He's  to  be  featured  in  a  picture  with  Dick 
Arlen. 

Here's  what  Rogers  says  about  it. 

"A  year  ago  it  would  have  broken  my 
heart  to  see  my  name  sharing  the  lights  with 
another.  Now  I'm  glad.  I  couldn't  carry 
it  alone,  and  I  know  it.  Besides,  I  play  a 
gangster.  Maybe  as  a  gangster  I  can  show 
them.     I'm  going  to  make  good." 

Well,  everybody  just  got  tired  of  the  too- 
good-to-be-true   boy   in   pretty   sappy   parts. 


Time  for  a  new  deal, 
and  put  it  over! 


Okay,  kid.     Go  on 


A  LL  of  Hollywood  grieved  with  Lawrence 
•*»-Tibbett  in  the  recent  loss  of  his  mother. 
Again  it  was  an  illustration  of  the  trite  but 
true  saying  that  "The  show  must  go  on." 
Larry  was  just  getting  ready  to  open  a  new 
opera  at  the  Metropolitan,  so  that  he  could 
not  even  attend  his  mother's  funeral,  and  his 
sister  returning  from  the  funeral  was  stricken 
with  pneumonia  and  one  of  his  boys  with 
'flu. 

We  should  have  explained  that  Mrs. 
Tibbett  died  in  New  York,  while  visiting 
Lawrence,  but  was  brought  to  California  for 
burial. 

The  funeral  was  from  the  "Wee  Kirk 
O'Heather,"  the  same  church  from  which 
Milton  Sills  was  buried. 

Lawrence  sang  the  only  solo  at  Milton's 
funeral. 

V\  THEN  nine  women  work  an  average  of 
*»  eighteen  hours  a  day  on  a  picture  without 
men,  displays  of  temperament  and  indications 
of  jealousy  are  expected. 

Director  William  Beaudine  admits  he  was 
afraid  of  the  consequences  when  he  began  "The 
Mad  Parade, "  the  all-woman  war  picture  star- 
ring Evelyn  Brent,  and  featuring  Libyan  Tash- 
man,  Louise  Fazenda,  Marceline  Day,  Fritzi 
Ridgeway,  June  Clyde  and  Irene  Rich.     He 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  83  ] 


Half- 

and- 

Half- 

But  all  Cream 


All  the  girls  in  the  audience 
who  don't  own  pajamas  will 
now  be  excused  while  they  go 
out  and  get  some. 

June  MacCloy's  a  sailor  gull 
in  these  pajamas.  But  gull  or 
boy — as  Fred  Allen  says — she's 
all  right,  eh? 

White  jersey  makes  it — col- 
ored flannel  trims  it.  Half-and- 
half  they  call  it. 

Meant  for  the  beach.  But 
von  can  wear  it  around  the 
house,  if  you  insist. 


/^Stanley  Korshak  Blackstone  Shop 

Onqmals  Take  Their  Smart  Lines 

fibm  CQ//ARD  Moulded  Fiqures 


"The  lines  of  to- 
day's clothes  re- 
veal  the  idealned, 
rather  than  the 
natural  feminine 
figure.  Conord 
foundation  styles, 
monthi  in  advance, 
accurately  guide 
the  designer  to  a 
correct  interpreta- 
tion of  the  silhou- 
ette. Smart  women 
find    that    modern 

clothes  show  their  lines  to  best  advan- 
tage when  worn  over  o  Gossard  founda- 
tion/' says  Stanley  Korshak,  head  of  the 
Blackstone  Shop  of  Chicago.  The  Block- 
stone  Shop  has  gowned  Chicago's  social 
leaders  and  debutantes  for  many  years. 
Chicago's  fashionables  have  faith  in 
Blackstone  originals  —  because  they 
so   delightfully  wearable. 


THE  Blackstone  gown,  pictured,  heralds  a  new  note  for 
Spring — fabrics  cut  on  the  diagonal,  and  dependent 
entirely  upon  the  foundation  garment  for  its  lines!  Shapeless 
on  the  hanger — it  takes  on  charm  and  line  when  worn  over  a 
Gossard  foundation,  and  clings  to  the  figure  with  a  smooth- 
ness hitherto  unknown.  The  lovely  Gossard  combination  is  of 
dainty  peach  lacewith  narrowsectionsof  hand-loomed  elas- 
tic at  side  back.  It  is  finished  with  an  eight-inch  lace  flounce 
...Designed  to  mould  the  figure  to  slim  curves.   Model  1630 


Th 


e  H.  W.  Gossard  Co.,  Dioiuon  of AtioaaitJ  Apparel  Industrie*.  Inc.,  Chicago,  New  York,  San  Francisco,  Dallas,  Atlanta,  London,  Toronto,  Sydney,  Buenos  Air«s 


<^4fid  he  staid 

L  NEVEk 

would  marry! 


Kenneth  was  known  as  a  man's  man. 
(harming  and  gracious  as  he  was  to 
all  women,  none  had  ever  swept  him 
from  his  cool  detachment.  Hut  now 
he  found  himself  standing  breathless, 
almost  awkward,  before  the  bronze- 
and-ivory  radiance  which  was  Helen. 

Hair  a  warm  brown  upon  which 
an  autumn  sun  might  have  cast  a 
ruddy  glow  .  .  .  eyes  of  the  same 
coppery- brown  faintly  flecked  with 
jets  of  flame  .  .  .  the  creamy  skin  of 
a  gardenia  misted  in  rose  .  . .  mock- 
ing lips  of  pomegranate  red.  Under 
his  enraptured  stare,  a  slow  flush 
mounted  her  throat,  the  gay  mischief 
in  her  eyes  departed. 


Pompeion  Toiletries  include: 

Beaut)  Powder        Powder  Compact  Dusting  Powder 

Bloom  (Rouge)       Night  Cream  Massage  Cream 

Indelible  lipstick  Day  Cream  laic 

/  aih  t%  priced  at  6tn  I  I  ale,  2<,i 


A  As  ardent  now  as  he  had  been  alool  before, 
Kenneth  soon  separated  her  from   the 

friendly  gathering — and  guided  her  to  (he  still 
seclusion  of  the  library.  There,  the  man 
who  vowed  he  never  would  marry,  eagerl) 
renounced  his  cherished  freedom  for  the 
glamor  ot  the  bronze  and-ivory  lad>  ' 


•  Behind  the  looking  glass 

Helen's  beauty  had  been  no  gilt  of  the 
kindly  disposed  fates.  Her  complexion 
had  once  been  sallow  and  uneven  of 
texture,  her  lips  without  color,  her  brown 
eyes  lustreless. 

It  was  the  satin  mask  of  Pompeian 
Powder  in  Rachel  tone  .  .  it  was  the 
glowing  touch  of  Pompeian  Bloom  a 
creamy  rougei  in  Oriental  tint  .  .  .  and 
the  deep  vividness  of  the  new  Pompeian 
lipstick  .  .  .  that  had  transformed  her  to 
a  thing  of  living  beauts. 


A  book  to  assist  you 

Mme.  Cordet.  famous  beauts  specialise, 
has  studied  all  types  ol  feminine  beauis. 
For  each  of  them,  she  has  designated  the 
Pompeian  cosmetics  required  to  make 
the  most  of  the  individual  s  charm.  This 
booklet   is   included   in   our  coupon   offer. 


•  There  is  one  such  on  ensemble 
for  you 

No  matter  what  your  skin  coloring  or 
texture,  there  is  a  Pompeian  tone  in  each 
cosmetic  to  give  your  complexion  a  ra- 
diant glow,  to  bring  out  a  beaut)  which 
may  not  be  suspected  now 

.So  fine  and  so  skillfully  blended  are  the 
ingredients,  that  Pompeian  powder  and 
rouge  cling  lastingly  to  the  skin  and 
avoid  frequent  re-touching.  And,  because 
of  the  millions  of  women  who  choose 
Pompeian  toiletries  above  all  others, 
they  are  the  most  economical  you  can  use. 

Pompeian  Powder  and  Pompeian 
Rouge  are  beautifully  encased  in  gener- 
ous packages  and  cost  but  60c  each,  the 
lipstick  likewise  is  onl)  60c. 

Order  sour  own  particular  beauts  ensemble 
lodas  -  all  dtug  and  department  stores  carry 
Pompeian     Also   I  tu  sizes  available  at  10c  stores 

Loveliest  Art  Panel  of  All 

The  new'  Pompeian  Art  Panel  is  the 
most  beautiful  vse  hasc  eser  offered 
You  will  wish  one  for  the  colorful 
charm  ir  will  lend  to  your  ssalls 

•  He  sure  to  PRINT  name  and  address 


P0MP6IAN 

POWDER,      ROUGE      and      LIPSTICK 

Ilit   Pompeian  Co.   Inc..    New  York,  N    V ..  Elnura.    NY.   and    Toronto.    Can  {Sain      (Mm 

Harold  F.  Ritchie  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Madison  Ave.  at  34th  St..  N.  V  .  and  10  McCaul  St  .  Toronto.    Can., 


I  Mme.  Jeannette  de  (  ordct. 

I  Dept.  16-4.  Pompeian  Laboratories. 

|  Flmira.  N    V 

I   enclose    10c    (coin)   for  the    Art 

'  Panel  and  a  cops  of  booklet  "  Your 

I  Type     of    Beauty.'      Include     the 

I  samples  of  Pompeian  Day  Cream 


and    Night    (ream 


|  Name 

|  Street   Address 

I  City  State 

I  (In  Canada  — 10  MiLaal  $:.,   Toronto) 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from     Hollywood 


IM  PAG]    BO  , 


i^su 

1  9 

r 

t  ^  H 

Mary  Carr,  the  well-remembered 
mother  of  "Over  the  Hill"  and 
many  other  pictures,  is  bank- 
rupt. Our  sorrow  is  tempered  by 
the  thought  that  maybe  her 
family  of  big  children  will  help 


nlmits  that  Louise  Fazenda's  sense  of 
humor  was  the  only  thing  which  saved  the 
situation. 

Whenever  one  of  the  others  tried  to  steal 
a  scene  or  thought  someone  else  was  trying 
to  steal  it.  Louise  wisecracked  them  into 
forgetting  about  it. 

One  scene  was  completed  in  which  Lilyan 
called  I'ritzi  a  rat.  Hut  Lilyan  repeated  her 
line.  "You  rai — "  Fritzi  made  ready  to  an- 
swer. 

"Who  says  I'm  a  rat?"  Louise  got  to  her 
knees.    "Who  says  Fm  a  rat?"    She  crawled. 
The  girls  laughed.     The  unpleasantness  was 
■  ten. 

And  just  to  make  doubly  certain,  Louise 
managed  to  cook  a  cake  or  fry  chicken  or  make 
cookies  almost  every  day  of  the  shooting,  brim; 
them  to  the  set  and  keep  the  other  gii 
interested  in  their  tummies  that  they  forgot 
their  war-frayed  dispositions. 

CHEVALIER  played  his  five  shows 
a  day  at  the  Paramount  Theater 
in  New  York  with  a  temperature  of 
one  hundred  and  two  and  a  bad  case 
of  the  'flu. 

A  nurse  accompanied  him  to  all 
performances  and  he  rushed  home  to 
bed  between  shows. 

PSTHER  RALSTOX'S  talkie  comeback  was 
■'—'suspended  almost  as  soon  as  it  had  begun. 

She's  gone  into  retirement  to  await  the  ar- 
rival of  a  little  stranger  some  time  in  June. 
She  and  her  husband.  George  Webb,  are  tre- 
mendously happy  about  it.    They  want  a  son. 

She  made  a  big  hit  in  "The  Southerner.'' 
with  Lawrence  Tibbett.  and  other  producers 
began  demanding  her  beauty  and  services  tor 


their  |ii>  lures      Hut  it  wai  not  to  be-    at  least, 
not    tor   a   u<«xl   long   time       lor    Esther 
mother  hood  joyfully.    And  the  nursery's  read] 

THE  extras  have  their  troubles 
just  like  the  stars. 
In  a  certain  picture  an  old  bit- 
player  was  told  to  put  on  disreputable 
clothes  and  emit  loud  screams  every 
time  the  camera  turned.  "No,  sir," 
he  said.  "Not  for  that  $7.50  check  I 
don't  holler  all  day." 

T  l  'S  in  Will  Rogers'  oontracl  that  he'-  not  to 
*be  required  to  submit  to  fan-magazine  inter- 
views- because    he    might    inadvertently   give 

away  a  joke  he  could  sell. 

Hut   Dorothy  Mackaill  went  him  one  belter 

the  other  day.     A  magazine  writer  wanted  to 

do  a  story  about  her  love  life      She  turned  it 

down.     "  I  should  give  away  my  love  life.  "  she 

.  "when  it  might  be  a  best  seller!" 

ULTRA-IMPORTANT  Clarabow 
Note: 
For  the  first  time,  the  Bow's  eye- 
brows  are    the    same    color   as   her 
flaming  hair.    They  used  to  be  black. 

I"  V.W  AYRLS  has  again  settled  his  difficulties 
■*-''.'.  it  h  Universal  and  will  remain  on  their  pay- 
roll for  another  six  weeks,  at  least. 

During  "All  Quiet  <>n  the  Western  Front," 
is  receiving  $250  a  week.  When  we  recall 
he  was  at  I'athe  for  $50  and  had  only  "The 
with  Greta  Garbo,  to  his  credit  in  the 
big  picture  class,  that  was  not  bad.  After 
that,  he  received  $500.  A  few  months  ago, 
following  a  misunderstanding  with  the  studio, 
he  was  raised  to  $1,000. 

Xow.  after  "The  Doorway  to  Hell,"  comes 
another  misunderstanding  and  a  raise  which 
we  understand  brings  him  SI  ,250  weekly.  Rows 
pay,  we  take  it. 

BUSTER  KEATON  has  a  little 
white  frame  dressing  bungalow 
next  to  Jack  Gilbert's  pretentious 
stucco  near-mansion. 

The  other  day  Mr.  Keaton  strung 
a  clothes-line  from  his  frame-corner 
to  Jack's  stucco  one  and  hung  a  string 
of  red  flannel  underwear  on  it. 

A  (COM  I' AMID  by  Gene  Markey,  screen 
■•"writer,  novelist  of  note,  and  Ina  Claire's 
ex-beau,  Gloria  Swanson  can  be  seen  any  morn- 
ing  following  the  little  white  ball  around  the 
Rancho  golf  course. 

Very  good  for  the  G 

This  Markey  lad,  by  the  way.  is  quite  the 
gallant  of  Hollywood.  He  can  say  just  the 
nicest   thin_;-. 

All  the  girls  like  to  meet  him.  He  has  the 
finest  line  of  compliments  and  is  not  stingy 
with  them. 

BEBE  DANIELS  passed  her  solo 
flying  tests  a  few  weeks  ago,  and 
now  holds  a  pilot's  license. 

^-*  January  4.  1930:  Doug  Fairbanks  re- 
turns to  America  from  Europe. 

January  4.   1931:     Doug  Fairbanks  '.. 
America  on  trip  to  the  Orient. 

Anil,  of  course,  divorce-denials  are  iss 
from  Fickfair  as  quantitudinously  as  pickles 
from  a  Heinz  plant. 

Mary  gave  Doug  a  going-away  present.  It 
was  a  sleeping  bag,  90  Doug  can  stay  warm 
nights  even  though  not  between  the  Fickfair 
blankets. 


Well,  if  it  isn't  Enid !  Welcome 
back  to  the  camera.  Enid  Ben- 
nett, who  has  been  busy  raising 
three  youngsters  of  her  own,  has 
come  back  to  play  5^/ppy'j 
mother  in  that  film 


OOLLF.F.XMOORF.lostaseveral-thousand- 
^-^clollar  diamond  bracelet  at  the  Hollywood 
premiere  of  "Trader  Horn.'' 

She  advertised  in  all  the  papers. 

A  colored  woman  returned  it  to  the  theater. 
Said  she  had  picked  it  up  outside  the  lobby 
the  night  of  the  opening  of  the  African  picture. 
She  got  two  hundred  dollars  reward. 

rT"'IIL  working  title  of  the  newest  Chevalier 
*■  picture  was  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant."  It's 
all  about  the  difficulties  a  handsome  young 
lieutenant  gets  into. 

Faramount  asked  its  writers  for  new  title 

•  ions. 
(  me  piped  up  with: 
•The  Officer's  Mess." 
Oh.  well  .  .  . 

VfTELCOME  home.  Enid  Rcnnett! 
W       The   beautiful  blonde  leading  woman 
retired  from  the  screen  several  years  ago  I 
vote   herself   to   taking  care  of  husband    Fred 
XiMo  and  their  three  children. 

Hut  a  call  came  from  Faramount  that  just 

couldn't  be  denied,  and  now  Enid  is  playing 

>y*s   mother  in   the  picture  being   made 

about  the  adventures  of  that  child  in  Fercy 

Crosby's  famous  cartoons. 

Well,  Enid  should  know  all  about  mothering 
■  ith  three  youngsters  of  her  own  at 
home. 

XJI.VF.R  mind  what  anyone  may  tell  you — 
■*-^Rudy  Vallee  has  a  sense  of  humor  in 
operation. 

\<  you  probably  remember,  three  gay  college 
boys  tossed  him  a  few  elderly  eggs  and  senile 
grapefruit  while  Rudy  was  sinking  on  the  stage 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE  108  ] 


S3 


Money  Is  No  Joke 


he  gets,  annually,  from  his  typewriter.  A 
quarter  of  a  million  is  a  safe  guess. 

Through  the  McNaught  Newspaper  Syndi- 
cate, he  ^ells  two  newspaper  features — a  daily 
short  article  which  you'll  find  on  the  front  page 
of  many  newspapers;  and  a  weekly  Sunday 
article,  which  you've  undoubtedly  seen  in 
your  favorite  Sunday  papers. 

\>ide  from  that,  he  writes  an  occasional 
hook,  which  brings  him  in  steady  royalties. 

Well,  then,  there's  two  sources — films  at 
S(XK).(XX)  a  year,  and  writings  at  $250,000. 
Total,  already,  SI,  150,000  a  year. 

"K.  TOW  comes  radio.  Last  year,  certain  tooth- 
■*-^  paste  makers,  apprehensive  that  they  were 
being  outradioed  by  the  Amos  V  Andy  tooth- 
paste broadcast,  looked  about  to  see  what 
other  opposition  they  could  scare  up. 

"How  about  Will  Rogers?"  someone  sug- 
i       So  they  went  to  Will. 

"Please  broadcast  for  us,"  they  begged. 

"Sure,"  grinned  Rogers,  "If  you'll  pay  me." 

"How  much?" 

"Oh,  about  ten  thousand  a  night,"  sug- 
gested Will,  not  thinking  they'd  pay  it. 

"Okay!"  they  said. 

And  for  thirteen  successive  Sunday  nights, 
Will  Rogers  talked  for  about  seven  or  eight 
minutes  into  a  microphone— and  socked 
another  S130.000  into  the  bank. 

Well,  the  total's  going  up:  S30,000  for  saying 
yes  to  chewing-gum  people;  SWO.OOOayearfor 
making  movies;  S250.000  a  year  for  typewriting 
new  and  used  wisecracks  for  newspapers; 
S  130.000  for  talking  into  a  radio  microphone 
for  less  than  two  hours  altogether  .... 

Add  to  that  his  real  estate  income.  He  has 
invested  his  moneys  wisely.  He  is  one  of  Los 
Angeles'    foremost    property    holders.      And 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  54  ) 

Los  Angeles  real  estating  can  be  very  profit- 
able. There's  no  guessing  how  much,  or  how 
little,  he's  made  in  his  real  estate  venturings. 
He'll  never  tell  himself,  because  he's  as  close- 
lipped  about  his  business  affairs  as  he  is  loose- 
lipped  about  other  people's  affairs.  But  total 
it  all  up,  and  it's  a  safe  bet  that  his  income  is 
I"  tii  r  than  a  million  and  a  quarter  a  year. 

His  present  wealth  has  been  estimated  at 
anywhere  from  S2,000,000  to  S10,000,000  with 
Rogers  himself  saying  nothing  except  that 
he's  kind  of  shy  on  cash,  whenever  people 
want  him  to  buy  anything. 

But  in  contrast  to  all  this  acquisitiveness  on 
the  man's  part,  and  in  utter  fairness  to  him, 
it  must  be  told  that  he's  generous,  charitable 
and  unstingy.  He  likes  to  get  money,  but  he 
doesn't  squeeze  it  till  the  eagle  squawks. 
Authentic  tales  are  told  of  his  generosity. 

For  instance,  there  was  the  time  he  cashed 
a  fellow-actor's  check  for  $300.  He  folded  the 
check  and  put  it  in  his  pocket.  Next  day,  the 
other  actor  summarily  lost  his  job,  and  was 
decidedly  up  against  it. 

Rogers  heard  of  it.  He  called  a  mutual 
friend,  tore  the  jobless  actor's  S300  check  in 
half,  and  sent  it  back  by  the  friend.  "He 
needs  it  more'n  I  do,"  he  grunted.  That  was 
all.  And  last  year,  when  Los  Angeles'  Com- 
munity Chest  was  hard  put  to  it  to  raise  its 
quota,  Rogers  stepped  into  the  breach. 

Not  with  any  huge  cash  contribution  from 
his  own  coffers.  He  guarded  those  well.  In- 
stead, however,  he  agreed  to  make  personal 
appearances  at  a  downtown  Los  Angeles 
theater — a  thing  he  rarely  does.  He  drove  a 
hard  bargain  for  his  salary  for  a  week  of 
stage  appearances.  He  made  them  pay  him 
S12.500.  And  he  turned  every  cent  of  it  over 
to  the  Community  Chest. 


And  then  they  still  talk  of  the  time  his 
closest  friend,  Fred  Stone,  was  hurt  in  an 
airplane  crash  on  the  eve  of  the  opening  of  the 
new  Stone  play  on  Broadway.  They  made 
much  of  how  Rogers  flew  east  and  at  the 
eleventh  hour,  took  his  friend's  place  in  the 
show,  out  of  pal-ship. 

But  they  neglected  to  state  that  Rogers 
collected  $4,000  a  week  salary  for  the  stunt. 

OF  course,  with  all  these  millions,  Rogers 
can  afford  things  nowadays.  He  owns,  as 
has  been  mentioned,  all  sorts  of  property  in 
Los  Angeles.  For  a  while,  he  was  owner  of  one 
of  Beverly  Hills'  finest  homes — "the  house  that 
jokes  built,"  is  what  sightseeing  bus  mega- 
phoners  used  to  call  it.  But  he's  sold  that 
and  lives,  with  his  family,  on  a  great  250-acre 
ranch  in  the  hills  between  Los  Angeles  and  the 
sea.  He  has  a  great  stable  of  polo  ponies,  and 
plays  polo  virtually  every  Sunday  before  a 
crowd  that  pays  from  $1  to  S5  admission. 
He's  not  even  playing  polo  for  nothing! 

He  owns  about  a  half  dozen  automobiles. 

But  with  all  this  millionairing,  he  still 
affects  Hollywood's  extreme  sloppiness.  He's 
almost  always  to  be  seen  in  dirty,  bedraggled 
clothes,  his  hair  all  askew.  He  doesn't  own 
a  dress  suit,  and  his  dressiest  outfit  is  a  double- 
breasted  blue  serge.  He  won't  have  a  tele- 
phone in  his  house.  He  maintains,  in  short, 
the  make-up  of  the  ignorant  cowhand. 

But  the  funniest  joke  he  ever  used  is  the  one 
he  always  uses — the  line  he  starts  so  many  of 
his  talks  and  writings  with:  "Well,"  it  goes, 
"all  I  know  is  what  I  read  in  the  papers  ..." 

Now,  Mister  Rogers,  you  know  there  are  a 
lot  of  people  who  read  the  papers,  too.  But 
they  don't  know  how  to  make  a  million  or 
more  a  year! 


HOLLYWOOD'S  latest  craze  in  card 
games  is  no)  "according  to  Hoyle"  but, 
nevertheless,  has  taken  a  huge  toll  of 
victims.  Introduced  by  John  Cromwell,  Para- 
mount director,  it  has  been  named  "Cromwell" 
by  members  of  Ruth  Chattcrton's  "Unfaithful" 
company,  where  it  was  first  played. 

Between-scene  waits  find  Miss  Chatterton, 
Paul  Lukas,  Juliette  Compton,  Paul  Cavanagh, 
Donald  Cook  and  others  pursuing  their  luck 
with  the  game.  A  combination  of  several  card 
pastimes,  it  resembles  "Rummy"  more  than  any 
other  game. 

It  may  he  played  by  two  or  more  players 
Lach    player    is  dealt   seven   cards   and    the 


Star  and  director  play  a  round  of 
"Cromwell"  between  scenes  of  "Un- 
faithful." Ruth  Chatterton  and  John 
Cromwell  mix  coffee  and  a  hand  of 
the  game  he  invented.  From  her  wary 
expression  looks  as  though  Ruth  ex- 
pected some  skull-duggery ! 


dealer  places  the  pack  face  down  on  the  table 
and  turns  up  one  card. 

Players  then  begin  play  on  this  card,  given 
the  preference  of  either  following  suit  or  pair- 
ing a  card  from  their  hands  with  the  turned- 
up  card.  The  card  played  by  each  person 
determines  the  play  for  the  one  at  his  left. 
If   suit   cannot   be   followed   or   card   played. 


Here's  A 

Ne  w   & 

Simple 

Card  Game 


players  must  draw  from  the  deck  until  they 
can  play.  All  eights  are  wild  and  may  be  played 
at  any  time  and  called  any  suit  preferred  by  the 
player.  If  an  eight  is  the  first  card  turned  up, 
it  must  be  buried  in  the  deck. 

The  first  player  playing  out  all  cards  wins 
and  points  count  against  those  held  by  re- 
maining players,  with  aces  scoring  eleven,  face 
cards  ten  and  all  others  at  face  value. 

When  draw  has  exhausted  the  deck,  play 
•  continues  as  long  as  any  players  can  meet 
the  "suit  or  pair"  requirements. 

If  none  can  play  and  all  hold  cards,  the 
person  with  the  lowest  number  of  points  left  in 
hand  wins. 


PHOTO?!  w    M  \r.\/i.M     i  01    Ai'i'ii  ,    1931 


«S 


in  Hollywood 

they  advise  this  way 
to  keep  that  schoolgirl  complexion 


Palmolive  is  recommended 
by  76  of  the  80  beauty  ex- 
perts in  Screenland's  capital 


Here*!  th<-  popular  "Jim." 
beauty  speciali>t  to  num- 
bers  of  stars.  "It  gives  us 
great  pleasure  and  satisfac- 
tion that  76 of 'the 80  Holly- 
wood  salons  recom mend 
Pabnolive  Soap,  and  ue 
specially  use  and  recom- 
mend it  in  our  complexion 
advice  to  stars." 


s* 


1608  No.  Highland  Avi  m  i 

HOLLYWOOD  knows.  Hollywood  can't  afford  to 
guess.  Beauty  is  too  important,  movie  cameras  i.ir 
too  faithful  to  permit  haphazard  facial  care.  So  76  of 
the  SO  Hollywood  beauty  experts  insist  upon  one  thing, 
to  begin  with.   "Use  Palmolive  Soap,"  they  say. 

When  the  close-up  flashes,  you  look  for  YOUTH! 
And  youth  means,  first  of  all,  a  schoolgirl  complexion. 
Here's  the  way  advised  by  76  experts  in  the  center  of 
Screenland:  first,  a  lather  of  Palmolive  Soap  and  warm 
water  applied  gently  to  i.KC  and  throat.  Then,  a  thorough, 
refreshing  rinse  with  warm  water,  and  an  icy-cold  after 
rinse.  Ice  (wrapped  in  a  towel  or  piece  of  linen)  is  advised 
by  many  beauty  specialists.  And,  after  that,  make-up. 

Oyer  20,000  experts  say  so! 

You  can't  imagine  a  more  worldwide  beauty  rite  than 
this  twice-daily  treatment.  For  there  are  more  than  20,000 
experts  (licensed,  operating  specialists  .  .  .  every  one) 
who  recommend  regular  use  of  Palmolive. 

This  pure  soap  has  attained  its  worldwide  popularity 
because  it  is  made  of  those  priceless  beauty  ingredients — 
olive  and  palm  oils  .  .  .  which  harmonize  so  well  with 
the  favorite  face  creams. 

You  can  begin  this  popular  facial  this  very  day.  And 
the  price  of  Palmolive — just  10  cents,  you  know — makes 
it  the  least  expensive  beauty  treatment  in  the  world. 


PALMOLIVE  RADIO  HOUR— Broadcast  everv  Wednesday  night 
— from  '5:30  to  10:30  |>.  m..  Eastern  time;  8:30  to  9:30  p.  m..  Central 
time  ;  7:30  to  S  :30  p.  m ..  Mountain  tune  ;  6  :30  to  7  :30  p.  m..  Pacific 
Coast  time  —  over  WEAJF  and  39  stations  associated  with  The 
National   Broadcasting  Company. 


1  Olith !      Freshness  '      Natural 
That's  the  trend  in  beauty  today.     A\ 
loveliness  defends  ••*    ketpina    "tk  i.' 
girl  complexion." 


"I  advise  the  use  of 
Palmolive  twic*  daily 
to  provide  really 
thorough  cleans 
toys  Mrs.  Evelyn 
Cassidy,  Amu  Mere- 
dith Shop.  6~Sj  Sun- 
set Boulevard. 


"Vain 

com- 
plexions."—  Ruby  /.' 
Roosevelt  Beauty  Salon. 


\\JUlh  JuruuJr  cD oJi^JOxyZxiJJifb  Qmr^Jlsiy/j^ 


86 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

These  New  Faces 

Watch  for  This  Each  Month 

MARION   LESSING   ("Seas  Beneath,"  Fox)  is  a  beautiful  blonde  youngster 

■Pr        "^B  on  whom  Fox  is  counting  heavily.    The  daughter  of  Professor 

WT  ■  Otto  Lessing  of  the  University  of  Illinois,  she  went  to  Vienna  in 

1925  and  entered  on  a  stage  career  there.     Coming  back  to 

America,   she  made  several  appearances  on  Broadway.     Her 

>-s+tX  work  in  shorts  led  to  a  Fox  contract. 


WILLIAM  GAXTON  ("Fifty  Million  Frenchmen,"  Warners)  has  long 
been  prominent  in  musical  comedy  and  vaudeville  on  Broad- 
way. A  San  Francisco  boy,  he  came  East  and  appeared  with 
great  success  in  "The  Music  Box  Revue,"  "Connecticut  Yankee" 
and  "Fifty  Million  Frenchmen."  He  is  married  to  Madeline 
Cameron,  musical  comedy  actress. 

CONSTANCE  CUMMINGS  ("The  Criminal  Code,"  Columbia)  is  a 
twenty-year-old-girl  from  Seattle,  Washington,  who  appeared 
on  Broadway  in  choruses  and  almost  overnight  jumped  to 
leading  roles  in  pictures.  She  was  a  chorus  girl  in  the  first 
"Little  Show."  She  is  now  under  contract  to  Columbia.  Her 
real  name  is  Halverstadt. 


cUlpA  rruul 
look  natural 

SAY  AMERICAS    GREAT 

FASHION    AUTHORITIES 

VOGUE  says:  "All  Paris  is  creating  more 
natural  appearing  make-up.  A  vivid  slash, 
of  red  lips  has  no  place  in  today's  very  femi- 
nine, individual  mode.  Avoid  lipsticks 
that  do  not  match  your  natural  coloring." 

HARPER'S  BAZAAR  says:  "The  rouge  and 
lipstick  which  blend  into  the  natural  flesh 
tones,  fit  most  perfectly  into  the  fashion 
picture  of  1931.  This  is  precisely  what  the 
Tangee  preparations  do.  They  accentuate 
the  actual  skin  tones,  and  are  becoming  alike 
to  the  blonde,  brunette  or  Titian." 

Tangee,  the  world's  most  famous  Lipstick, 
SI.  Non-Greasy!  Natural!  Permanent! 
New!  Tangee  Theatrical,  a  special  dark 
shade  of  Tangee  Lipstick  for  professional 
and  evening  use. 

Same  Tangee  Color  Principle 


DONALD  DILLAWAY  ("Body  and  Soul,"  Fox)  is  another  stage 
juvenile  to  click  in  Hollywood  talkies.  Don  was  born  in  New 
York  twenty-three  years  ago.  On  the  stage  he  appeared  in 
"Fast  Life"  and  "Courage."  Coming  to  Hollywood,  he  played 
in  "Min  and  Bill"  and  "Mr.  Lemon  of  Orange."  Then  Fox 
placed  him  under  a  nice  contract. 

HELEN.  BRODERICK  ("Fifty  Million  Frenchmen,"  Warners)  was  long 
one  of  vaudeville's  favorite  comediennes,  with  her  husband  and 
partner,  Lester  Crawford.  In  addition,  she  appeared  in  many 
musical  comedies,  among  them  "Fifty  Million  Frenchmen." 
She  plays  the  same  role  in  the  film.  She  was  one  of  the  late 
Jeanne   Eagels'   best   friends. 

WILLIAM  MORRIS  ("The  Gang  Buster,"  Paramount)  has  been  on  the 
stage  for  many  years.  His  wife  and  their  four  children  are  also 
of  the  theater.  The  most  famous  is  Chester,  now  a  United 
Artists  star.  Father  William,  many  years  ago,  was  Modjeska's 
leading  man.  For  a  long  time  opposed  to  picture  work,  he  was 
at  last  led  before  the  camera  on  the  Coast. 


FLORENCE  BRITTON  ("The  Devil  to  Pay,"  United  Artists)  played  her 
first  picture  role  in  the  Colman  film,  and  was  so  well  liked  that 
Samuel  Goldwyn  put  her  under  contract.  She's  a  twenty-year- 
old  San  Francisco  girl  who  had  but  a  brief  experience  on  the 
stage,  in  stock.  She  has  auburn  hair  and  gray  eyes.  As  Col- 
man's  sister  in  "The  Devil  to  Pay"  she  impressed  greatly. 


SEND   20?  FOR  TANGEE   BEAUTY  SET    CLARK   GABLE    ("The  Easiest  Way,"  M-G-M)  is  an  Ohio  boy  who  began 

in  the  theater  as  a  stock  actor  in  his  early  twenties.  Now,  at 
twenty-nine,  he  has  signed  a  long  term  contract  with  Metro- 
Goldwyn-Mayer,  and  seems  to  be  set  for  a  career  in  talkies. 
Clark  is  six  feet,  one  inch  tall  and  weighs  190  pounds.  He  has 
brown  hair  and  gray  eyes. 


Containing   miniature   Lipstick,  two   Rouges, 
Powder,  two  Creams  and  "The  Art  of  Make-up." 
Tun  George  W.  Luft  Co.,  Dept.  P4 
417  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 

Name , 


Address 


Phoioim .  \v   Maca/im    hik  Ai'hii.,   1'>>I 


87 


leeth  . .  lovely  to  begin  with 
deserve  the  tenderest  care 


This  thrift  dentifrice 

is  thorough,  yet  so  gentle 

in  action 

O  O W  fool-hardy  to  brush 
sound,  lovely  teeth  with  any  but  a  safe  gentle  denti- 
frice which  has  proved  itself  in  the  hands  of  millions. 

Before  creating  Listerine  Tooth  Paste  we  made 
an  exhaustive  study  of  tooth  enamel.  We  examined 
its  structure.  We  tested  its  varying  degrees  of 
hardness,  case  after  case.  We  learned  that  people 
of  today  have  less  sturdy  teeth  than  their  ancestors. 

Our  next  duty  was  to  discover  cleansing  and 
polishing  agents  that  would  be  harmless  to  the 
precious  enamel  surface.  At  length  we  found,  and 
included  them  in  our  dentifrice.  Thousands  have 
thanked  us  for  them. 

For  the  sake  of  your  teeth,  we  ask  you  to  use 
Listerine  Tooth  Paste.  Note  how  swiftly  but  how 
gently  it  cleans  teeth — erasing  fermenting  food 
particles,  discolorations,  and  tartar.  Note  the 
lovely  luster  it  imparts  to  the  teeth.  Observe  their 
soundness  year  after  year  under  this  gentle  care. 

In  all  the  field  of  dentifrices  there  is  no  purer, 
more  carefully  compounded  one  than  this.  In  every 
way  it  is  worthy  of  the  Listerine  name.  That  you 
can  obtain  it  for  25c  is  due  entirely  to  modern 
manufacturing  methods  and  mass  production. 
Lambert  Pharmacal  Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo., 
U.  S.  A. 


The  makers  of  Listerine  Tooth  Paste 

recommend 

Pro-phy-lac-tic 

Tooth    Brushes 


H 


JLISTER1NE  i 

TOOTH  PASTE 

"•<«RWAC«t  COMPANY 


It  saves  you  enough 
to  buy  a  toilet  set 

There  are  so  many  things  you  can  buy 
with  that  Si  you  save  by  using  Listerine 
Tooth  Paste  at  25c  instead  of  denti- 
frices in  the  50c  class.  A  toilet  set  is 
merely  a  suggestion. 


88 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,   1931 


FASHION  SALUTES 

A     GRACEFUL     N  E  W     NOTE 


PJintntirnphs    hy   Pnu  Jonr* 

Genevieve  Tobin,  beautiful  Universal  star,  demonstrates  the  versatility  of  present-day  fashion. 

Shorts  and  shirt  for  tennis.  A  soft  and  subtle  satin  gown  for  afternoon.  And  for  moments  of 

relaxation,  a  feminine  gown,  charming  and  comfortable. 


Never  were  styles  more  truly  feminine 
than  in  this  year  of  Fashion,  1931 .  Frills 
are  everywhere.  Dresses  are  flowy  .  .  . 
with  clinging,  revealing  lines  that  are 
both  graceful  and  alluring.  How  they 
do  set  off  the  figure! 

Ah,  that's  the  point!  The  figure's 
the  thing,  says  Fashion.  We  must  be 
slender,  to  be  sure — but  slimly  rounded. 
We  must  remember  calories,  but  not 
forget  complexions,  vitality,  glowing 
health.  And  that's  why  so  simple  an 
addition  to  the  diet  as  bran  is  very, 
very  important. 

For  unwise  dieting  may  do  far  more 
harm  than  good.  Diets  which  lack 
roughage  (and  most  reducing  diets  do) 
frequently  cause  improper  elimination. 
Poisons  accumulate  in  the  system — caus- 
ing pimples,  wrinkles,  sallow  skins,  head- 
aches, dizziness  and  even  serious  illness. 

All  this  danger  may  be  avoided  by 
simply  including  Kellog's  All- Bran 
in  an  adequate  reducing  diet.  All-Bran 
isn't  fattening — it  adds  health  instead 
of  calories.  It  provides  the  roughage 
needed  for  proper  elimination.  It  also 
adds  iron  which  brings  color  to  the 
cheeks  and  helps  prevent  dietary  anemia. 

Try  this  pleasant  ready-to-eat  cereal 
instead  of  dangerous  pills  and  drugs. 
You'll  enjoy  the  nut-sweet  flavor — the 
many  ways  you  crn  serve  it:  as  a  cereal, 
sprinkled  over  salads,  in  soups  and 
omelets;  cooked  into  muffins  and  breads. 

Ask  for  Kellogg's — the  original  All- 
Bran.  Recommended  by  dietitians.  In 
the   red-and-green    package.    Made    by 
Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 
•        •       • 

You'll  enjoy  Kellogg's  Slumber  Music,  broad- 
cast over  wjz  and  associated  stations  of  the 
N.  B.  C.  every  Sunday  evening  at  10.30  E.  S.  T. 
Also  kfi  Los  Angeles,  komo  Seattle  at  10.00, 
and  K.OA  Denver  at  10.  ~io. 


SEND     FOR     THE     BOOKLET 

"  THE  MODERN  FIGURE  " 

It  contains  helpful  and  sane  counsel  regarding  the 
modern  stylt-s  and  how  to  achieve  the  figure  best 
suited  to  them.  You  will  find  the  suggested  menus 
and  table  of  foods  for  reducing  diets  invaluable.  It 
is  free  upon  request. 

KELLOGG  COMPANY 

Dept.  A-4,   Battle  Creek,  Mich. 

Please   send    me    a    free    copy   of   your   booklet, 
''The  Modern  Figure." 

Name i 

Address - 


^ooldn-g 


Kitchenette 


A  scene  typical  of  many  modern  homes,  where  kitchenettes  have  solved  space  and  servant  prob- 
lems.   It's  from  the  two-reel  Educational  comedy,  "Three  Hollywood  Girls" 


WHILE  kitchenettes  have  narrowed  the  scope  of 
cooking,  they  have  enlarged  its  perplexities.  The 
housewife  who  is  newly  transplanted  from  a 
roomy,  old-fashioned  kitchen  to  a  •■new-fangled" 

kitchenette,  is  apt  to  stand  with  a  frying  pan  in  one  hand  and 
a  double  boiler  in  the  other,  wondering  where  she  can  find  room 
to  >it  either  one,  much  less  both  of  them! 

And,  when  she  tries  to  cook  a  dinner  that  begins  with  soup 
and  ends  with  a  homemade  dessert,  she  is  inclined  to  grow 
actually  sentimental  about  the  little  restaurant  around  the 
corner! 

But,  like  everything  else,  it's  all  in  getting  used  to  it!  After 
a  while.  Mrs.  Housewife  discovers  that  there  are  desserts 
which  can  be  prepared  hours  ahead  and  tucked  away  in  the 
ice-box  until  time  to  be  served.  That  one  vegetable  can  be 
cooked,  and  one  raw  vegetable,  such  as  chopped  cabbage, 
can  be  combined  with  a  salad  like  lettuce  and  tomatoes,  and 
served  with  salad  dressing.  That  coffee  can  be  made  right  at 
the  table  or  on  a  side  table  in  a  percolator,  or  coffee  essence  or 
granules  can  be  added  to  hot  water  in  a  jiffy. 

There  are  many  short  cuts  to  help  the  kitchenette  cook,  and 
many  ways  to  simplify  her  serving.  And  there  are  plenty  of 
simple  but  excellent  recipes  she  can  substitute  for  some  of  the 
more  complicated  and  space-taking  ones  she  used  to  follow. 

HERE  are  a  few  sug- 
gestions for  kitchen- 
ette cooked  meals.  The 
first  recipe  is  for  a  nourish- 
ing, filling  luncheon  or 
supper  dish.  It's  called 
Shrimp  Wiggle.  You  need: 

1  cup  shrimps 

I  cup  canned  peas 
4  tablespoons  butter 
3  tablespoons  flour 

II  ■_>  cups  milk 
Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  the  butter  and  add 
the  tlour  which  has  In 
mixed  with  J  £  teaspoon 
salt  and  !  {  teaspoon  pep- 
per. Pour  the  milk  on 
gradually.  As  soon  as 
sauce    thickens,    add    the 


shrimps,  broken  in  pieces,  and  the  pea-,  drained  from  their 
liquor  and  thoroughly  rinsed.     Serve  piping  hot,  and  pour  I 
thin  slices  of  toast  if  you  like.    A  real  treat  for  lovers  of  sea  food. 
If  fresh  shrimps  are   not   available,   there  are  many  good 
brands  of  canned   shrimps. 

Baked  Rice  with  Cheese  is  substantial  enough  to  serve  for 
luncheon  without  meat,  and  will  take  the  place  of  potatoes  and 
a  cooked  vegetable  at  the  evening  meal.    The  ingredients  are: 
\i  lb.  grated  cheese  up  sweet  milk 

1  cup  steamed  rice 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks 
and  stir  into  them  the  cheese,  rice,  milk  and  butter.  Then 
fold  in  the  beaten  whites.  Make  into  patties  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

A  green  salad — lettuce  with  French  Dressing  will  do  nicely — 
should  be  served  with  this  dish. 

The  following  is  an  excellent  recipe  for  French  Dressing. 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  ispoon  pepper 

1  _>  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Rub  the  mixing  bowd  with  a  garlic  bean,  (but  be  sure  that 
the  flavor  of  garlic  is  not  offensive  to  those  who  are  to  dine  with 
you!).     Mix  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper  in  the  bowd,  adding 

oil  slowly  and  beating 
constantly.  Chill  and 
serve  cold. 


PnoTOPLAT  Magazine 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago, 


m. 


Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous  Cook 
Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the  stars. 
1  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  com. 


AN  I)  here  is  a  recipe 
for  Baked  Apples  that 
makes  them  a  real  dessert 
— one  that's  good  and 
good  for  you,  too. 

Peel  and  core  as  many 
apples  as  desired,  filling 
the  center  of  each  apple 
with  a  tablespoon  of  hon- 
ey. Bake  for  an  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven,  placing  a 
little  water  in  the  bottom 
of  the  pan  to  keep  apples 
from  burning.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  nut  meats. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


9° 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


This  is  Mrs.  White 

You  probably  know  Mrs.  White  yourself .  .  . 
have  often  remarked  how  clean  and  attractive 
she  keeps  her  whole  house... and  her  children, 
too . . .  and  yet  always  has  time  for  other  things  ! 


She  plans  her  housework 

And  you've  wondered  how  Mrs.  White  (or  Mrs. 
Jones  as  the  case  may  be)  manages  to  do  so 
much.  Her  secret?  She  plans  her  housework. 
She  budgets  her  cleaning  time.  Our  free  book 
tells  exactly  how  she  does  it. 


She  uses  cleaning  short-cuts 

Mrs.  White  spends  her  minutes  wisely  —  makes 
every  single  minute '"buy"  the  most  cleanliness 
possible.  She  uses  short-cuts — like  changing 
suds  frequently,  making  dishes  dry  themselves, 
etc.   (See  booklet  for  many  others.) 


And  she  is  through  by  noon 

Most  of  Mrs.  White's  cleaning  is  done  by  noon. 
She  takes  afternoons  and  evenings  off  for  any- 
thing she  wants  to  do  .  .  .  and  still  keeps  her 
home,  her  children  and  herself  clean  and  spot- 
less...and  happy!    How  does  she  manage? 


Our  free  booklet,  A 


FREE  booklet 

Cleaner  House  by  12 
O'clock  tells  Mrs.  White's  whole  plan.  Inter- 
esting and  helpful.  Send  for  a  copy.  You'll 
be  very  glad  you  did.  Use  the  coupon. 

CLEANLINESS 
INSTITUTE 


I   CLEANLINESS 

i   45  East  17ih  Si 

INSTITUTE,  Dept.  N4 
set,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

!'4-31    j 

i          Please 
12  O'clock 

send 

me 

free  of  all 

cost  "A  Cleaner  House  by    ■ 

: 

i    City 

Good  Dress  Here 

— like  it  f 


A  good  spectator  sports  dress — worn  by  Karen  Morley  in  "Never  the 
Twain  Shall  Meet." 

The  jacket  follows  the  title.     Short — it  doesn't  meet  the  skirt. 

The  sleeves — three-quarter — don't  meet  the  wrist. 

White — with    bright   contrast — patriotically   and   fashionably — red 
and  blue — good. 

And  her  tri-color  scarf — she  can  wear  it  or  wave  it. 

Good  hat,  too — brimmed  and  lifted  off  the  face  and  forehead. 


PhOTOPI  \v    M  \<,\/im     i  01   Atkii  .    1       1 


J_  ve  loinicl  a  perlume 

>» 
to  register  _M e 

saYs  LILLIAN  ROTH 

1  (1  beard  there  were  sucb  tilings  .  .  . 
perfumes  that  ni.vt  fitted  certain  types  .  .  . 
luit  never  quite  believed  it,  don  t  yon  know. 

"Until  that  clay  .  .  .  what  a  tiiul!  ...  I 
discovered  Seventeen.  Just  a  little  vagranf 
whin,  straying  iron  a  perfume  counter  . . . 

'  vV  liy,  lu-llo  A\e!  ...  I  gasped.  For  .  .  . 
it  s  an  bonest  tact  .  .  .  that  perlume  said  to 
me  I  ED  young  as  you  arc  ...  1  like 
thrills  .  .  .  and  madcap  fancies  ...  1 
dance   and   Sing   .   .   . 

Well,  1  adopted  seventeen  rigbt  then 
ami  tberel  Now,  we  re  always  together 
.  .  .  and  1  hardly  know,  when  1  in  gay, 
now  much  is  me  and  how  much  Oei  enteen! 


■      ^ 


f*'LW'i£ 


^euteeuTD 


Keeping  the  Jrlood 

of   tueventeeru 

Face  Powder.. .  in  smart, subtle 
shades.  Dusting  Pairaer .  .  .  an 
exhilarating  finish  tor  the  bath. 
Compact  ...  in  -which  alert 
sophistication  is  combined 
with  Seventeen  s  naive  charm. 
BnUantines  .  .  .  both  solid  and 
liquid;  the  solid  ii  non-alco- 
hohc  ami  iion-drvint;.  0<u/i<  t 
.  .  .  like  a  ha  mi  tun;  breath  of 
Springtime,  to  freshen  clothes 
and  lingerie.  T"<>i/ct  It'  ater  .  .  . 
.  .  .  the  characteristic  iSevcn- 
teen  .scent.  Talcum  .  .  .  fresh, 
ilc. in,  tr.-njraiit.  The  Perfume 
.  .  the  mood  of  Seventeen 
itself,  translated  into  apertume 


Q2 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


His  supper  club  bill 

was  .  .  $38 

Her  gown,  spoiled  by 

carelessness  .  .  $79 


At  the  blue-and-silver  supper  club 
where  he  was  entertaining  her,  they 
chatted  and  danced  with  verve.  At  least 
they  began  that  way — but  what  a  horrid 
ending!  And  it  cost  her  $79. 

The  club  got  closer  and  warmer  as 
the  evening  wore  on.  She  perspired 
under  the  arms,  and  presently  her  little 
jade  satin  gown  grew  damp.  She  knew 

THERE   ARE 


that  the  dress  was  ruined — that  the  per- 
spiration stains  were  sure  to  fade  its 
color.  And  she  was  in  terror  of  underarm 
odor — so  fatal  to  charm.  So  she  turned 
gloomy  and  silent. 

There  went  the  evening,  utterly 
spoiled.  He  thought  her  very  difficult 
indeed.  How  Odorono  would  save  her 
both  men  and  money! 

KINDS    OF 


ODORONO 


ODORONO  REGULAR  (ruby  colored) 
—  provides  the  most  lasting  protection  of  all 
preparations  for  use  in  preventing  underarm 
odor  and  perspiration  —  3  to  7  days.  It  is  for 
application  at  night,  before  retiring. 


ODORONO  COLORLESS 

—  instantly  effective  and  quick-drying,  is  for 
those  who  like  to  use  Odorono  quickly. 
Apply  at  any  time  .  .  .  day  or  night.  Odorono 
Colorless  gives  1  to  3  days'  protection. 

RUTH  MILLER,  THE  ODORONO  CO..  Inc. 
Dept.  4Q1,  191  Hudson  St..  New  York  City 
I  enclose  10c.  Please  send  me  samples  of  Odorono 
Regular,  Odorono  Colorless,  and  Odorono  Cream 
Depilatory.  (If  you  live  in  Canada,  address  P.  O.  Box 
2}20,  Montreal.) 

Addrtti _ 


To  Clara  Bow's 
Public 


(With  apologies  to  Shakespeare 
and  Mark  Antony) 

Friends,  Americans,   Fellow  Fans,  lend  me 

your  ears; 
I  come  to  condemn  Clara,  not  to  praise  her. 
The   evil   that    she   docs  flames  out  in  every 

newsprint, 
The  good  is  hushed   and   hidden  from  our 

si  zh  t. 
So  let  tis  defame  Clara.    The  noble  Daisy 
Ilath  told  us  that  Clara  was  extravagant. 
If  it  were  so,  it  was  a  grievous  fault 
And  grievously  hath  Clara  answered  for  it. 
Hereafter,  accusations  flung  by  Daisy  and 

the  rest — 
And  Daisy  was  Iter  honorable  friend — 
Come  I  to  speak  of  Clara's  calumny. 
She  was  our  pet,  glorifying  "It"  for  us. 
But  Daisy  says  she  was  extravagant; 
And,  sure,  site  was  her  honorable  friend. 
So  are  we  all,  all  honorable  friends. 
She  hath  brought  many  of  us  to  the  theater 
]]'hose  money  did  the  movie  coffers  fill. 
She  hath  made  us  laugh,  and  thrilled  us 
By  her  joyous  acting.    But  she  is  extravagant. 
She  hath  spent   her   money  freely  to  benefit 

her  friends; 
Did  this  in  Clara  seem  extravagant? 
Her  money   is   her   own   to  spend  it  as  she 

likes. 
When  that  her  friends  have  cried,  Clara  hath 

wept. 
Fame  should  be  made  of  sterner  stun. 
I  speak  not  to  disprove  what  Daisy  spoke, 
But  here  I  am  to  speak  what  I  do  know. 
We  all  did  love  her  once,  not  without  cause. 
What  cause  withholds  us  then,   to   stand   by 

her? 
0  judgment!  Thou  art  fled  to  brutish  beasts 
And  men  have  lost  their  reason.     Bear  with 

me; 
My  heart  is  there  with  Clara  in  her  need 
And  I  must  pause  till  it  come  back  to  me. 

—Gertrude  C.  Ball 


City— 


State. 


Heart  Throb 

I  had  one  of  those  grippy  colds.  My 
sister  was  in  bed  with  a  broken  col- 
larbone. My  mother  was  ill  with 
nervous  indigestion.  My  father 
looked  worried.  The  maid  was  leav- 
ing within  the  week.  I  knew  I'd 
scream  if  I  remained  in  the  house  a 
moment  longer.  I  flung  on  my  things 
and  left  the  house,  feeling  like  a 
scooped  out  pumpkin.  (That's  what 
grip  does  to  you.)  I  went  to  the  mov- 
ies. 

Two  hours  later  I  sang  all  the  way 
home.  It  was  snowing  but  when  I 
got  to  my  door  I  felt  exhilarated — 
thrilled — happy — laughing.  The  talk- 
ies had  snatched  me  out  of  life  for 
two  hours.    I  am  grateful. 

Phyllis-Marie  Arthur 


Photoplay  Magazini    pob  April,  i     i 


9  1 


Catherine  Dale  Owen,  charming  featured  player  in  the  Radio  Pictures'  production,  "Behind  Office  Doors."  Beside 
her   is   Apollo,  a    modern   Tclechron    model,  with    moulded   black  case    and   chromium    Fittings,   priced   at   St  5. 


Look  for  these  Telechron*  Clocks  in  Radio   Pictures' 
new  production,     Behind  Office  Doors 


MOVING  PICTURE  production  demands 
accurate  timing  for  efficiency.  Movie  acces- 
sories must  be  modern,  smart  and  well- 
designed.  Telechron  Electric  Clocks  qualify 
both  ways.  That's  why  Radio  Pictures  Cor- 
poration says,  "When  we  need  a  clock  on 
theRKOIot,wecallforaWarrenTelechron!" 
A  number  of  Telechron  Clocks  appear 
in  "Behind  Office  Doors,"  supporting  Mary 
Astor,  Catherine  Dale  Owen,  Robert  Ames, 
Ricardo  Cortez  and  the  rest  of  the  stars  in 
this  entertaining  RKO  picture.  Watch  for 
them  when  "Behind  Office  Doors"  is  shown 
at  your  local  theater! 


The  amazing  accuracy  of  each  Telechron 
Clock  is  assured  by  a  Telechron  Master 
Clock  in  the  power  house.  Besides  telling 
time,  Telechron  saves  time  !  It  never  needs 
winding,  oiling  or  regulating.  And  only 
clocks  marked  "Telechron"  on  the  dial 
bring  this  Telechron  service. 

You  can  have  in  your  home,  clocks  just 
like  those  that  tell  time  for  the  stars.  There's 
a  dealer  near  you,  listed  under  "Telechron" 
in  the  classified  telephone  directory.  He 
has  many  models  to  show  you.  Stately 
grandfather's  clocks.  Graceful  tambours  for 


the  mantel.  Quaint  banjos  for  the  wall. 
Attractive  uprights  for  desk  or  table.  With 
deep-toned  chimes,  illuminated  dials  and 
other  interesting  features.  See  them. 

Telechron  Clocks  range  in  price  from 
S9.75  to  $55.  The  Revere  Clock  Company 
of  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  manufactures  chiming 
clocks  with  Telechron  motors,  priced  from 
S30to$10O0. 

*  Telechron  it  the  trade-mark,  registered  in  the 
U.S.  Patent  Office,  of  the  Warren  Telechron  Company. 

WARREN  TELECHRON  COMPANY 

ASHLAND,     MASSACHUSETTS 


0 

A 


uestions 

nswers 


"Cimarron"  has  stirred  up  hundreds  of 
questions  this  month,  and  leads  in  interest 
at  the  moment.  Here  are  Richard  Dix, 
Irene  Dunne  and  little  dm  driving  into 
Osage,  Okla.,  to  settle 


CIM. 
adv 
frnti 


IMARROX"— Edna  Ferber's  thrilling 
enture  story  of  the  rise  of  Oklahoma 
'from  early  pioneer  days  to  statehood — 
brings  a  comparative  newcomer  to  the  screen 
in  the  role  of  Sabra  Cravat — Irene  Dunne, 
from  Louisville,  Kentucky.  Inquiries  poured 
in  this  month  as  to  where  anyone  so  perfectly 
suited  to  the  part  was  found.  The  answer  is 
simple — Radio  Pictures  signed  Miss  Dunne  on 
a  long-term  contract  after  having  seen  her  as 
Magnolia  in  Ziegfeld's  production  of  "Show 
Boat."  She  played  in  a  musical  picture — 
"Leathernecking"  and  after  tests  were  made 
of  a  number  of  girls  they  gave  her  the  part  in 
"Cimarron"  because  she  looked  eighteen  and 
could  talk  in  the  quavery  voice  of  a  woman  of 
seventy.  Her  hair  is  a  beautiful  copper-color 
and  her  eyes  are  grey.  She  is  five  feet,  four 
and  one-half  inches  tall  and  weighs  one  hun- 
dred and  twenty  pounds.  You  will  see  her 
next  in  "Bachelor  Apartments."  She  has  a 
beautiful   singing   voice. 

L.  R.  Larchmont,  N.  Y.:  Yes,  L.  R.,  you 
must  be  right  because  everyone  thinks  as  you 
do  that  Richard  Dix  was  Yancey  Cravat 
come-to-life.  His  next  picture  will  be  "Big 
Brother"  but  he  is  not  directing  himself.  He 
is  under  contract  to  Radio  Pictures. 

Grace  Klein,  Williston,  N.  D.:  Well, 
Grace,  I  hate  to  have  to  tell  you  that  you 
are  wrong  and  your  friend  Fran  is  right.  It 
was  Lewis  Stone  who  played  in  "The  Prince 
of  Head  Waiters"  and  the  story  was  about  a 
boy  who  does  not  know  his  father.  Now  the 
argument  is  settled  you  and  Fran  can  kiss  and 
be  friends. 

I.  J.,  San  Francisco,  Calif.:  Yes,  your 
informant  was  correct.  Ruth  Taylor  married 
Paul  Zuckerman  in  March,  1930.  She  now 
lives  in  Xew  York — on  Park  Avenue,  and  has 
a  small  son,  born  last  December.  She  is  very 
happy  and  says  she  has  no  idea  of  going  back 
into  pictures. 


M  \kv  Estelle  Gracey,  Long 

Beach,  Calif.:  John  Boles  has 
two  daughters  and  I'm  sure  that 
if  you  write  him  he  will  send  you 
an  autographed  photograph. 
He  is  under  contract  to  Universal 
Pictures  and  is  at  present  work- 
ing in  the  screen  version  of 
Charles  Xorris'  novel  "Seed." 


ago.    There  is  some  similarity  in  the  way  of 
thrills,  but  "Feet  First"  was  never  made  before. 

M.  0.  Drum,  Galesburc,  III.:  We  hear 
that  Pearl  White  is  running  a  casino  in 
Biarritz  in  the  south  of  France.  Dorothy  Dalton 
married  Arthur  Hammerstein,  a  theatrical 
producer,  and  lives  on  Long  Island,  N.  Y.  Ella 
Hall  played  in  Cecil  De  Mille's  "Madam 
Satan."  Harrison  Ford  expects  to  go  back  on 
the  stage.  If  you've  seen  "Seas  Beneath" — 
a  Fox  picture — you've  seen  Francis  Ford. 

M.  J.  Robbixs,  M.  D.,  Lunenburg,  Vt.: 
Some  of  Constance  Bennett's  most  recent 
pictures  are  "Common  Clay,"  "Sin  Takes  a 
Holiday"  and  "The  Easiest  Way."  A  letter 
addressed  to  the  Pathe  Studio  will  reach  her. 

Lester  David,  New  York  City.:  Jackie 
Coogan  has  light  brown  hair  and  brown  eyes. 
He  is  sixteen  years  old,  weighs  ninety-eight 
pounds  and  is  four  feet,  ten  inches  tall. 

Frances  E.  Petersen,  Hartford,  Conn.: 
If  you  were  in  New  York  you  could  see  Jack 
Whiting  playing  the  part  of  a  movie  hero  in  a 
new  musical  comedy  called  "America's  Sweet- 
heart." He  will  be  thirty  long  years  old  next 
June  and  is  married  to  Beth  Sully,  Doug 
Fairbanks'  former  wife  and  mother  of  Doug  Jr. 
"Top  Speed"  and  "The  Life  of  the  Party"  are 
the  names  of  two  pictures  in  which  he  played. 

Helen  Katherixe  Eisenberg,  Lonacon- 
ixg,  Md.:  David  Manners'  real  name  is 
Rauff  Acklom.  He  was  born  on  April  30, 
1902,  in  Halifax,  Nova  Scotia.  His  eyes  are 
grey-green  and  his  hair  is  brown.  He  weighs 
one  hundred  and  sixty-nine  pounds  and  is  six 
feet  tall  and  married  to  Suzanne  Bushnell. 
Lew  Ayres  was  to  have  played  in  "Dracula" 
but  he  did  a  picture  instead  with  Joan  Bennett 
called  "Many  a  Slip."  I  can't  tell  you  who  he 
likes  best — Joan  or  Lola  Lane.  We'll  have 
to  be  patient  until  Lew  makes  up  his  mind. 


Read  This  Before  Asking  Questions 


Marian  Kennedy,  Kirkwood,  Mo.:  In 
"Madam  Satan"  you  saw  Reginald  Denny  as  a 
vagabond  king  in  the  masquerade  on  board  the 
zeppelin.  The  part  of  "Water"  was  played  by 
Doris  McMahon.  Don't  tell  anybody,  but 
we  think  Maurice  Chevalier  is  about  thirty- 
six  years  of  age. 

Mildred  Myrick,  Norfolk,  Va.:  Listen 
carefully,  please  Mildred!  Mickey  Daniels 
plays  Freckles;  Grady  Sutton  plays  Fat  Boy; 
and  David  Sharpe  plays  Cute  Boy.  And  they 
all  play  in  Hal  Roach  Comedies. 

W.  F.  B.  Winnipeg,  Man.:  Summon  Old- 
Man  Arithmetic  and  figure  this  one  out — 
William  Farnum  was  born  on  the  Fourth  of 
July,  1876.  How  old  would  he  be  now?  He 
played  at  the  Fox  Studio  in  "A  Connecti- 
cut Yankee"  with  our  old  friend,  Will  Rogers. 

Ed.  C.  Creighton,  Chillicothe,  Texas: 
Well,  Ed,  it's  like  this — some  curly-top  players 
answer  to  the  names  of  Charles  Chaplin, 
Charles  Farrell,  Buddy  Rogers,  Regis  Toomey, 
John  Gilbert,  Phillips  Holmes,  and  Bob 
Montgomery,  while  others  less  fortunate  are 
Chester  Morris,  Richard  Barthelmess,  Ben 
Lyon,  Richard  Arlen,  Fredric  March  and 
Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr. — all  straight. 

Vergel  Bellson,  St,  Paul,  Minn.  :  Marion 
Davies  and  Bill  Haines  are  two  good  examples 
of  January  1st  birthdays.  Betty  Compson 
was  bom  on  March  18,  1897,  with  that  very 
name.  Genevieve  Tobin  was  a  child  actress — 
educated  in  this  country  and  abroad.  She  is 
blonde,  with  grey  eyes,  weighs  one  hundred  and 
nine  pounds  and  is  five  feet,  three  inches  tall, 
born  November  29,  1904.  She  was  on  the 
stage  for  a  number  of  years  and  last  July  she 
signed  with  LTniversal  on  a  long-term  contract. 
Her  last  two  pictures  are  "Seed"  and  "Fires  of 
Youth." 


H.    D. 


Mrs.  Marie  Leone,  White 
PLAINS,  X.  Y.:  Your  friend  has 
got  Harold  Lloyd's  picture  "Feet 
First"  mixed  up  with  "Safety 
First"  which  lie  made  some  years 

94 


Avoid  questions  that  call  for  unduly  lone  answers,  sucli  as  synopses 
of  plays.  Do  not  inquire  concerning  religion,  scenario  writing,  or 
studio  employment.  Write  on  only  one  side  of  the  paper.  Sisn  your 
full  name  and  address.  If  you  want  a  personal  reply,  enclose  a  stamped, 
self-addressed  envelope. 

Casts  and  Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much  space,  we  treat  such  subjects  in  a  different 
way  from  other  questions.  For  this  kind  of  information,  a  stamped, 
addressed  envelope  must  always  be  sent.  Address  all  inquiries  to 
Questions  and  Answers,  Photoplay  Magazine.  220  \\ .  57th  St., 
New  York  City. 


Bray,  Hazleton,  Penna.:  Mae 
Clarke  made  her  debut  in  the 
world  on  August  16,  1910,  and 
her  debut  in  the  talkies  in  June, 
1929.  She  was  reported  engaged 
to  John  McCormick,  Colleen 
Moore's  ex-husband.  Mae  was 
divorced  last  year  from  Lew 
Brice.  Her  latest  picture  is 
"Men  on  Call." 

Mary  Lew,  Lindsay,  Onta- 
rio: IfallrumorsaretrueCharles 
Bickford,  will  be  back  in  talkies 
soon.  He's  a  product  of  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  married  and  has 
two  children,  boy  and  girl. 


PB0T0P1  ay    M  \i;\/im,    i  QB    Ann  ,    I       I 


6 


95 

99 


MY    MANNEQUIN,    SAYS    FRANCES    INGRAM.    SHOWS    WHY 

On/ij  a  lieallnij  JJtln  ran  .stau  ijmuia 


Itv     I  r;inci-s    lii^r.ini 

YOI '  would  recognize  ber  name  at 
once  if  I  were  CO  mention  it.  She  1 1 
almost  as  well-known  as  her  very  well- 
known  husband.  And  her  portrait, 
showing  her  with  her  three  charming 
children,    was    recently    reproduced    in 

rotogravure  sections  all  over  the  coon  try. 
It  was  last  November  when  I  first  met 

her.  "One  glance  and  you'll  know 
that  I've  been  mistreating  my  skin 
frightfully,"  she  said.  "Hut  I  haven't 
time  for  long  complicated  treatments. 
\c  told  me  about  JH  ral  of 

my  friends.  Now  w  bat  can  he  done  for 
a  skin  which  has  spent  the  summer  on 
the  Maine  coast  and  the  autumn  behind 
the  hounds—  in  Virginia?  Wind  and  sun 
and  weather  are  bad  enough.  But  worse 
Still,  what  used  to  be  tiny  lines  in  my 
skin  arc  becoming  wrinkles!" 

I  know  she  has  followed  mv  Milk- 
weed method  ever  since  I  explained  it  to 
her— for  not  long  ago  I  saw  her  again. 

"Don't  I  look  years  younger'-'"  she 
said.  And  I  wasn't  flattering  her  a  bit 
when  I  told  her  that  she  did!  Her  skin 
was  exquisite — clear  and  smooth,  with 
scarcely  one  tiny  line  left  to  say  to  the 
world,  "She's  past  thirty-five." 


Her  case  is  so  like  that  of  hundreds  of 
women  who  write  me.  You  yourself  can 
accomplish  wonders  by  following  my 
starred  way  to  a  young  skin.  Firsr 
your  skin  deeply,  immsculattly  dean  with 
Milkweed  Cream  ...  it  is  a  remarkable 
soothing  cleanser.  Then — follow  the 
quick,  effective  directions  below. 


the    forehead  — To  guard  against  lines 
an  J  wrinkles  here,  apply  Milku 
stroking  with  fingertips,   outuard  from  the 
center  of  your  brow. 

the  eyes — If  you  would  aroid  aging  crous' 
feet,  smooth  Ingram's  about  the  eyes,  stroke 
uith  a  feather  touch  outuard,  beneath  eyes 
and  over  eyelids. 


the  MOUTH  —  Drooping  lines  are  easily  de- 
:  by  filming  the  fingertip)  with  my  mam 
and  sliding  them  upuard oier  the  month  and 
then  otitu  ard  toward  the  ears,  starting  at 
the  middle  of  the  chin. 

the   throat — To  keep  your  throat  from 
fiabbi-  ttwtmaly  uith  Mi.' 

and  from  the  hollow  at  the  base,  stroke  up- 
ward toward  the  chin. 


UL  no.  <  hin  —  To  pretent  a  sagging  chin,  stroke 
TT  with  jimgtrtips  (omrtd  uritl  .from 

under  the  chin  outuard,  under  the  jau  bone, 
;r.f  the  ears.    Then  pat  firmly  under  the 

chin  and  along  the  jau-  contours. 

j.      the  snot  LDKB9 — To  have  shoulders  that 
^f  ■  -free  and  firmly  smooth,  cleanse 

uith  Milkweed  Cream  and  massage    with 
palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion. 


INGRAM'S  CfMWeckC 


-ream 


THREE  SIZES  .  .  JOf.  .Si  .  .Si. "5 


Frances  Ingram,  Dept.  A-4I 
1U8  Washington  St.,  N.  Y.  C. 

At  10:15,  each  Tuesday,  tune  in  on  WJZoran  asso- 
ciated station,  to  hear  "Thtough  the  Looking  Glass 
with  Frances  Ingram."  And  send  for  her  free  book- 
let   Why  Only  a  Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young." 

jVj  1KI 

.  -. .  .  -     _ 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


THE    CIGARETTE 

IS  MIGHTIER 
THAN  THE  PEN.. 


No  thanks,  Mr.  Webster  ...  no 
words  today.  OLD  GOLD,  the 
cigarette  itself,  tells  its  own  story 
better  than  all  the  diction  in  the 
dictionary.  One  pack's  worth 
more  than  a  thousand  words.  158 
victories  in  165  public  taste-tests  of 
the  four  leading  brands  show 
how  convincingly  even  a  few  puffs 
tell  OLD  GOLD'S  taste -winning, 
throat -thrilling  story.  Light  up  .  .  . 
and  write  up  your  own  opinion. 


P.  Lorillard  Co.,  Inc. 


G/5LD 


C  IGA  RETTES 


NOT    A    COUGH    IN    A    CARLOAD 


Short  Subjects 

of  the  Month 

'^TOW  that  the  technique  of  short  subjects  in  sound  has 
*■  ^  been  pretty  well  mastered,  the  one  and  two-reelers  are 
becoming  largely  a  matter  of  personalities. 

Of  the  comparative  newcomers,  Andy  Clyde  and  Mar- 
jorie  Beebe,  developed  by  Sennett,  are  among  the  outstand- 
ing. Their  latest  pictures  are  reviewed  in  this  department 
this  month. 


THE  COLLEGE   VAMP 
Sennett — Educational 

If  you  like  whiskery  Andy  Clyde,  you'll  love 
this  picture.  He  plays  the  ineffectual  dean  of 
Baldwin  College  who  keeps  hopefully  trying 
to  squelch  a  bunch  of  students  who  are  too 
much  for  him.  And  then,  alas,  he  is  framed 
with  the  devastating  Yola  D'Avril! 

CO  URT-PLA  STERED 

Warners — Vila  phone  Variety 
Another  recent  arrival  on  the  laughing 
screen  is  Helen  Broderick,  one  of  the  best 
comediennes  of  the  hard-boiled  variety  we 
have.  In  this  one-reeler  she  and  her  husband 
and  partner,  Lester  Crawford  playing  a 
murderous  manicurist  and  prosecuting  attor- 
ney.    Very  funny! 

PETE  AND  REPEAT 
E.  W.  II amnions 
This  short  introduces  a  couple  of  blackface 
comedians  to  the  screen.  Their  picture  names 
are  Seben  and  'Leben,  and  they  hold  promise 
of  developing  into  sound  laugh-makers,  a 
pun.  Here  they  play  the  village  blacksmiths 
who  get  into  the  clutches  of  escaped  convicts. 

LOVE  BUSINESS 
Hal  Roach— M-G-M 
The  old  reliable  "Our  Gang"  kids,  which 
gets  new  faces  but  goes  right  on,  does  one  of 
its  customary  little  comedies.  Two  of  the 
youngsters  fall  for  teacher.  But  this  series 
shows  signs  of  growing  stale.  The  dialogue  is 
slow,  and  too  adult  for  kids.  Needs  pepping  up. 

A  HAPPY  LITTLE  HONEY- 
MOON 
Christie 
Glenn   Tryon,    formerly   a   feature    player, 
appears  in  this  short.    He  and  Vera  Marsh  are 
newlyweds  and  the  leading  figures  in  a  mys- 
tery-melodrama   with    plenty    of    laughs.    A 
brutal   robber  tries   to  get  away   with   their 
$10,000    wedding    present — and    is    given    a 
chase. 

BIGGER  AND  BETTER 

Hal  Roach— M-G-M 
This  is  the  latest  in  the  "Boy  Friends" 
scries,  with  three  pretty  flappers  and  three  nice 
looking  lads  having  good,  clean  fun  in  an 
adolescent  way.  Mary  Kornman  and  the  rest 
of  the  youngsters  furnish  mild  entertainment 
in  a  typical  young-folks  romantic  comedy. 

CAME  THE  PAWN 
Columbia 
This  is  another  of  the  shorts  directed  and 
played  in  by  the  diminutive  Eddie  BuzzelL 
It's  a  one-reeler  suitable  for  adult  audiences 
particularly,  with  Eddie  as  a  radio  announcer 
at  the  slumber  hour.  He  describes  marital 
trials— and  the  scenes  are  acted  at  the  same 
time. 


ONE   YARD  TO  GO 

Sennett — Educational 
Here's  peppery  little  Marjorie  Beebe  doing 
some  of  her  best  work  in  a  pretty  conventional 
little  college  comedy.  You'll  probably  only 
remember  the  football  game  at  the  end,  but 
that  has  punch  enough  to  make  up  for  previous 
low  spots.    Frank  Eastman  is  the  dashing  hero. 

KNIGHTS  BEFORE  CHRIST- 
MAS 
Radio 
Still  another  in   the   Radio  series,  starring 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  and  one  of 
the  weakest  of  the  lot.    Karl  brings  Arthur, 
his  pal,  home  for  Christmas,  and  the  rest  of 
the   comedy   is   largely   a   rough-and-tumble 
brawl  at  the  old  family   fireside.     Slapstick. 

SLEEPY  HEAD 
Warners — Vita  phone  Variety 
Little  Frankie  Orth  and  his  big  French  wife, 
Ann  Codee,  contribute  another  chapter  to 
their  Vitaphone  series  of  fun  films.  Frankie 
invents  a  snoring  machine  to  fool  his  wife  into 
believing  he's  home  when  he  isn't.  It  has 
laughs,  but  a  lot  forced. 

JUST  A  BEAR 
Sennett — Educational 
Our  friend  Andy  Clyde  hasn't  quite  as 
much  to  do  in  this  as  he  might,  but  he'll  hand 
you  some  snorts  and  chuckles  as  a  great  big 
silent  man  of  the  North  Woods  who  gets  all 
tangled  up  with  a  bear.  He  gets  especially 
swell  support  from  Patsy  O'Leary  and  Harry 
Gribbon. 

SEEIN'  INJUNS 
Pathe 
This  one  is  sure-fire  slapstick  of  the  kind 
we've  always  loved.  It  stars  that  amazing 
little  bundle  of  comic  talent.  Daphne  Pollard. 
Doing  her  familiar  cockney  character,  Daphne 
takes  her  little  boy  to  a  wild  west  show.  The 
kid  gets  lost,  and  then  the  fun's  fast  and 
frenzied. 

MY  HERO 
Warners — Vitaphone  Variety 
This  short  features  Eddie  Foy,  Jr.,  son  of 
the  famous  comic  who  delighted  our  dads  in 
days  gone  by.  He's  aided  by  Dorothea  Chard, 
a  pretty  minx  from  the  stage.  Eddie  plays  a 
fresh  college  youth  who  mistakes  a  hold-up 
for  a  fraternity  initiation.  Pretty  mild 
drollery. 

HELLO,  RUSSIA 

Universal 
Our  beanpole  friend,  Slim  Summerville, 
goes  right  on  with  his  series  of  war  comedies, 
and  this  one's  very  funny  in  spots.  Slim  plays 
the  bugler  of  an  American  Army  unit  in 
Russia,  with  Eddie  Gribbon  as  a  tough  _  ser- 
geant. As  usual,  the  boys  fight  over  a  girl — 
this  time,  Olga. 


Photoflm  Mm.a/im   roa  Aran.,  i     i 


97 


tverybody  s   asking    me 


about  the  new 
"individual     hair  tonic 
Packer  s    Scalptone 


"  \u  'individual'  hair  tonic,  which 
can  In-  made  just  right  for  m>  par- 
ticular kind  of  hair'".  .  .  Ever  since 
1  let  out  the  mwi  about  Packer's 
Scalptone,  letters  have  been  pouring 

in  on  me  —  from  radio  listener,  from 
maga/inc    readers  — all    Ikying, 

ft   A  personal  preparation  for 
my  hair.'"    And  it  U  just  that. 

Your  own  proscription  for  your  own 
hair  .  .  .  Scalptone  —  made  by  the 
makers  of  Packer's  Tar  Soap  —  is 
more  than  just  ■  hair  tonic.  It's  an 
absolutely  new  preparation  that  you 
can  vary  yourself,  to  suit  your  kind 
of  hair.  It's  as  individual  as  if  your 
initials  were  on  the  Ixittle!  If  your 
hair  is  oily,  you  may  have  Scalptone 
in  a  slightly  astringent  form  and  if 
your  hair  is  dry,  you  may  have 
Scalptone  as  oily  as  you  need  it.  Yet 
you  only  have  to  ask  for  Scalptone! 

Here's  how  it's  done  .  .  .  In  the  neck 
of  every  bottle  of  Scalptone,  there's 
a  little  tube  which  contains  oil  of 
sweet  almonds.  (You  probably  know 


that  oil  of  sweet  almonds  is  recom- 
mended for  dry  scalps.  I  If  your  hair 
is  oil\,  you  won't  need  this  oil.    You 

ige  Scalptone,  just  as  it  comes 

from  the  bottle,  directly  into  your 
scalp.  If  your  scalp  is  dry,  you  un- 
cork the  tulx\  and  pour  enough  of 
the  oil  into  the  Scalptone  to  make 
it  right  for  'jour  hair.  If  your  hair 
is  very  dry,  you  may  need  all  of  the 
oil.  That's  all.  Hut  it's  the  simplest, 
most  sensible  way  I've  found  for 
-  to  give  hair  the  sparkle,  the 
life  which  is  its  natural  right! 

For  any  hair  can  be  lovely — if  the 
scalp  it  belongs  to  is  really  healthy 
and  vigorous.  Regular  massage  with 
Packer's  Scalptone  will  help  your 
scalp  to  keep  "young."  Scalptone  is 
antiseptic,  too,  so  that  it's  a  help  in 
fighting  the  dandruff  enemy.  Your 
druggist  should  have  Scalptone  by 
now  — if  he  can  keep  up  with  the 
orders!  If  he  hasn't  it  yet,  send  me 
his  name  and  address  and  I'll  try  to 
see  that  he  has  some  for  you  at  once. 

JEAN    CARROLL 


PACKER'S      Scalptone 

Made  by  the  Makers  of  Packer's  Tar  Soap 

Hair-beauty    depends    on    scalp-nealfn 


Home  Treatments  for  Hair  Beauty 


oily  hair: 

Just  as  often  as  your  hair  gets 
oily,  even  it  it's  only  a  few  days 
since  your  last  shampoOi  sham- 
run)  again  with  Packer's  Pine  Tar 
Shampoo.  This  shamixxi  is  made 
especially  for  oily  hair;  it  will 
leave  your  hair  soft  and  Huffy. 
Then  massage  daily  with  Salp- 
tone,  the  wonderful  new  Packer 
tonic  which  each  user  can  modify 
to  suit  just  her  hair.  If  your  hair 
is  very  oily,  Scalptone  can  Ix-  an 
astringent  tonic  [see  explanation 

above).  It  will  help  restore  the 
oil  glands  to  normal. 

dry  hair: 

Shampoo  every  two  weeks  rcgu- 
larly  with  Packer's  Olive  Oil 
Sliampoo.     This  olive  oil  sham- 


poo is  made  csju-ci.illy  for  dry 
hair.  It  contains  BOOthmg  soften- 
ing glycerine  and  leaves  your  hair 
softer,  easier  to  manage.  K.tch 
day   apply   Scalptone  with   gixxl 

vigorous  massage.    Scalptone  is 

the  new  Packer  tonic,  the  tirst 
tonic  I  ever  heard  of  that  you  can 
modify  to  suit  just  aovr  hair. 
Salptone,  modified  according  to 
the  very  simple  directions  on  the 
bottle,  will  supply  the  natural  oil 
your  hair  lacks. 

dandruff: 

Fas  years  Packer's  Tar  Soap  has 
been  the  standard  treatment  for 
dandruff,  and  if  you'll  start  with 
four  daily  shampoos  with  Packer's 
Tar  Soap,  you'll  see  for  yourself 
how  much  dandruff  germs  hate 


pine  tar.  After  these  four  sham- 
poos, shampoo  every  three  or  four 
d.i>  s,  then  once  a  week. 

Along   with    Tar   Soap   Sham- 
use    Salptone— the    mar- 
velous new  tonic  which  you  can 
modify  to  suit  just  your  hair.    If 
vour  hair  is  dry,  read  the  easy 


directions  which  come  with  the 
Salptone  lx>ttle.  Then  you  can 
make  up  a  simple  prescription  to 
help  you  remedy  mil  ill  JIM  ■ 
If  your  hair  is  oily,  you  will  use 
Salptone  in  an  astringent  form. 
^  ou'll  find  Scalptone  a  great  help 
for  your  dandruff.  Its  antiseptic- 
qualities  an-  very  discouraging  to 
dandruff  germs. 

LET    ME    SEND    YOU 
SAMPLES 

For  10c  in  coin  I'll  be  glad  to  send 
you  a  sample  of  either  of  the  two 
PACKER  Liquid  Shampoos  or 
the  Tar  Soap.  For  25c  I  will  send 
you  samples  of  all  three.  Address 
Jean  Carroll,  The  Packer  Mfg. 
Co..  Inc..  Dept.  16-D,  101  W. 
31st  Street,  New  York. 

If  you  want  a  full-size  bottle  of 
Scalptone.  enclose  $1.00  with 
your  note. 


9« 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


Perhaps  like 
Case  Number  91 

Coarse  Fores  are  Your  problem 


PROOF  f 

"The  statements  made  in  this  advertisement  are  in  accord 
with  the  reports  of  15  dermatologists  .  .  .  They  are  known 
to  me  as  specialists  of  the  highest  professional  standing." 

(Signed)       Jaj^Mz: fah^£~~e^^U*&~ 

(ONE  OF  THE  COUNTRY'S   LEADING   DERMATOLOGISTS) 


Once  each  week  careful  skin  examinations  were  made 
by  the  supervising  Dermatologist  in  each  of  the  14  cities. 


On  the  morning   of  August  19th,  Miss 
Mary  M appeared  at  the  office  of  a 

noted  Philadelphia  physician. 
"Case  No.  91"  ...  so  he  designated  her  in 
his  case-book  "...  coarse,  enlarged  pores  .  . ." 
Then  he  instructed  her  to  wash  the  right  side 
of  her  face  each  night  with  the  creamy  lather 
of  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap  for  30  days. 
Using  any  other  preparation  of  her  choice  on 
the  left  side  of  her  face. 
Simultaneously,  in  this  and  13  other  cities, 
611  other  women  followed  this  same  inter- 
esting daily  beauty  procedure  for  30  days. 

In  Miss  M 's  case,  as  in  82  out  of  a  total 

of  113  cases  of  enlarged  pores,  Woodbury's 
facial  Soap  seemed,  literally,  to  transform 


Q  mi, 

*>NN  M.   WOODBURY,  INC, 


the  texture;  pores  rapidly  became  less  con- 
spicuous; the  skin  became  finer  and  silkier. 

Woodbury's  benefited  Acne  in  106  cases  and 
restored  normal  skin  lubrication  in  196  cases 
of  excessively  dry  or  oily  skin. 
In  case  after  case  the  evidence  was  built 
up — that  no  other  cleansing  method  equals 
Woodbury's  for  the  care  of  the  complexion. 
For  your  complexion's  sake,  won't  you  follow 
the  findings  of  Science  .  .  .  and  at  least  try 
Woodbury's?  Start  this  proven  beauty  treat- 
ment tonight.  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap  .  .  . 
at  but  25jf  a  cake  .  .  .  may  be  had  at  all  drug 
stores  and  toilet  goods  counters.  Or  send 
coupon  for  generous  samples. 
iri 
MAY  WE  SEND  YOU  DAINTY  SAMPLES? 
JOHN  H.  WOODBURY,  INC. 

804  Alfred  Strict,  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  If  you  live  in 
Canada,  address  John  H.  Woodbury,  Ltd.,  Perth,  Ont. 
I  would  like  advice  on  my  skin  condition  as  checked 
below,  also  trial  cake  of  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap  and 
generous  samples  of  two  Woodbury's  Creams  and  Facial 
Powder.  For  this  I  enclose  lot- 

Oily  skin  CD  Flabby  skin    □  Sallow  skin  □ 

Dry  skin  □  Coarse  pores  □  Pimples         □ 

Wrinkles  □  Blackheads     □ 

Name, _ 


Address 
City 


.State- 


Exploding  the 
Garbo  Myth 


|  CON'TINLED  FKOM  PACE  70  ] 

that  usually  characterizes  as  small  a  com- 
munity as  Hollywood  was  uttered.  Garbo 
came.  A  hush  fell  across  the  group.  She  com- 
pletely wet  blanketed  the  crowd.  She  was 
obviously  bored  and  went  home  early.  She 
literally  said  and  did  nothing. 

I  have  talked  to  many,  many  people  about 
Garbo,  people  who  know  her  intimately  (and 
there  are  more  of  them  than  the  stories  about 
her  would  lead  you  to  believe)  and  I  have  yet 
to  have  one  of  them  give  me  the  slightest 
evidence  that  her  silences  are  a  mask  of  deep 
thought. 

Now  she  does  have  something  on  the 
screen.  She's  not  had  so  much  since  talking 
pictures  (with  the  exception  of  "Anna 
Christie,"  a  ready-made  part)  for  the  reason 
that  the  talkies  require  a  new  technique  which 
Garbo  can  not  easily  learn.  But  in  the  silent 
days,  and  later,  perhaps,  too,  there  was  some- 
thing to  whet  the  romantic  appetites  of  all 
those  millions  of  fans  who  go  to  see  her,  who 
adore  her,  who  become  maniacal  over  her. 

As  a  person  I  can  only  gather  that  she  is  very 
sweet  to  her  friends  and  both  stubborn  and 
petulant  on  the  set,  that  she's  done  a  lot  of  nice 
things  for  people,  and  that  she  is  a  shrewd 
business  woman  who  keeps  mysterious  because 
she  knows  her  limitations  and  because  she  is 
bored  (as  most  of  us  are)  when  she's  with 
people  who  are  over  her  head.  O1-  sure,  I 
may  be  wrong.  I  may  not  be  mystic,  nor 
psychic,  nor  attune  enough  to  get  her. 

ON  the  screen — well,  I  believe  that  it's  a 
trick.  That  something  about  those  lack 
lustre  eyes,  that  sullen  mouth,  that  high  brow, 
that  pale,  clay-like  skin  appeals  to  the  imagina- 
tions of  people.  Rudolph  Valentino  had  a  dead 
nerve  in  one  eyelid.  It  gave  that  eyelid  a 
droop.  And  a  nice,  wholesome,  Italian  boy  be- 
came the  sinister,  mysterious  dream  lover  of  a 
million  women. 

Garbo  appeals  in  the  same  way.  I  do  not 
want  to  hurt  her,  for  she  does  care  about  the 
things  written  of  her  and  she  reads  them,  yet 
she  must  realize  that  her  personality  has  now 
become  public  property  and  the  facts  must  be 
met  if  we're  to  keep  ourselves  honest.  Mind 
you — Garbo's  a  nice  girl.  No  criticism  can 
affect  her  while  she  makes  good  pictures.  She's 
invariably  lovely  and  kind  to  the  new  actors 
and  actresses  who  work  with  her.  She  is 
touched  by  illness  and  sadness  and  expresses 
herself  in  flowers  and  gifts  to  those  who  are  ill 
or  sad. 

But  the  Garbo  legend  is  a  myth — and  don't 
let  anybody  tell  you  anything  else.  And  her 
"great  art"  is  something  quite  outside  herself 
like  the  art  of  Clara  Bow  and  Lupe  Yelez  and 
other  emotional  machines. 


Heart  Throb 

Came  the  casting  of  my  lot  in  a 
strange  city  on  the  other  side  of  the 
continent.  That  I  was  city-bred  had 
not  inured  me  to  unfriendly  faces,  to 
loneliness. 

The  Cinema!  Stars  whom  I  had 
seen  in  countless  dramas  and  ac- 
cepted or  rejected  insofar  as  their 
REEL  performances  had  been  good  or 
bad  were  now  REAL  companions.  My 
profound  gratitude  goes  out  to  them 
for  the  happiness  they  brought  me 
during  dark  hours  fraught  with  de- 
spair, nostalgia  and  heartache. 

George  Wilton,  Jr. 


PH0T0P1  w    M  \«.\/im    i  OB  Aran.,    1      I 


99 


F 


ILJI    STAICS 


Jtantlt. 


say:  "Safest  •  simplest 
•  most  satisfactory" 


93%  °f  aM  Universal  featured  players 
adopt  this  modern  method.  A  significant 
fact  that  every  home  manager  must  heed! 


Jthn  B*lttt  i'nivtrtjl  Star 


APPEARANCE  is  vital  to  screen  success.  Film- 
l  dom's  favorites  must  always  look  their  best.  So 
93  per  cent  of  all  Universal  featured  plavers  —  stars, 
character  actors,  directors  and  technical  men  too — send 
their  clothes  to  the  laundry. 

They  know  present-day  laundry  methods  will  safe- 
guard their  valuable  garments,  send  them  back  fresh, 
spotless.  They  know  fragile  washable  frocks  and  deli- 
cate linens  will  be  handled  with  the  utmost  gentleness, 
and  dainty  colors  will  be  preserved  in  original  beauty. 

You  too  will  delight  in  the  beautiful  work  done  by 
the  up-to-date  laundry.  And  you'll  be  astonished  at  its 
trifling  cost !  For  just  a  few  pennies  a  pound  you  can 
be  tree  from  all  the  worrv  and  strain  of  home  washday. 
There's  a  laundry  service  for  every  purpose,  for  every 
family  budget. 

•k  ' '  Puff ' '  De-vereaux,  perianal 

Eight  million  home  managers  now  "let  the  Laundrv         maid  of  Frmmm  If 
do  it."  And  year  by  year  the  number  steadily  grows.        <f  George  W hit  t  Scandals, put- 
ting aivay  the  petite  dancer's 

The  present-day  laundry  way,  using  only  rainsoft        fruUj Immmitrti  lint,,;  Mm 

water  and  the  multiple-suds  method,  is  an  amazing  ad-         if'illiams  is  only  one  of  the  many 
vance  over  old-fashioned  washday  methods.   Phone  a         mw.mkm*1miMi*wm*,A 
present-day  laundrv  in  your  community  this  week,  and 
say  goodbye  to  all  washday  bother.  Take  this  easy  route 
to  leisure  and  happiness!  Sponsored b\  the  Laundnon  ners 
National  Association  of  the   United  States  and  Canada. 

i^LAUNDRYrfW/ 


•*■  Bvtrj  St  '■•.!':  try  Rissse, timed 
to  the  ■  •ntific  devices 

ei  y   e\stk  under  the  mul- 
.    Jet  eloped   at 
the  American  Institute   J    L-i-- 
dering  —  million-do .. 
ground"  of  the  Laundry  Industry. 


IOO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


to  lifeless. 


Adds  Gloss, 
Lustre 

Dry,  Dull  Hair 

Leaves  It  Easy  to  Manage 

IF  your  hair  is  dry,  dull  and  difficult  to 
manage,  if  it  lacks  natural  gloss  and 
lustre^ — all  this  is  very  easily  overcome. 

Just  put  a  few  drops  of  Glostora  in  the 
palm  of  your  hand  and  pat  it  on  your 
hair  before  you  wave  or  comb  it. 

You  will  be  surprised  at  the  result.  It 
will  give  your  hair  an  unusually  rich, 
silky  gloss  and  lustre — instantly. 

Glostora  simply  makes  your  hair  more 
beautiful  by  enhancing  its  natural  wave 
and  color. 

Sets  Hair  Quickly 

It  keeps  the  wave  and  curl  in,  and 
leaves  your  hair  so  soft  and  pliable,  and 
so  easy  to  manage,  that  ....  it  will 
stay  any  style  you  arrange  it  ...  . 
even  after  shampooing — whether  long  or 
bobbed. 

A  few  drops  of  Glostora  impart  that 
bright,  brilliant,  silky  sheen,  so  much 
admired,  and  your  hair  will  fairly  sparkle 
and  glow  with  natural  gloss  and  lustre. 
A  large  bottle  of 
Glostora  costs  but  a 
t rifle  at  any  drug  store 
or  toilet  goods  counter. 
Try  it!— You  will  be 
delighted  to  see  how 
much  more  beautiful 
your  hair  will  look,  and 
how  easy  it  will  be  to 
|  wave  and  manage. 


Glostora 


Ten  Years  Ago  in  Photoplay 


THIS  would  be  a  red-letter  month  in  any 
year,  but  it  happens  to  be  April,   1921, 
and  a  great  event  is  on  tap  for  all  de- 
votees of  the  movies. 

"The  Kid"  is  charming  the  country — Chap- 
lin and  baby  Jackie  Coogan  are  going  through 
their  practically  deathless  pantomime,  and 
critics  and  public  have  joined  hands  and  are 
dancing  in  the  streets. 

Our  Mr.  Burns  Mantle,  conservative  always, 
says  he  doesn't  care  to  state  right  out  that 
"The  Kid"  is  the  greatest  motion  picture  ever 
made — but  the  inference  is  that  he  thinks 
it  is. 

The  country  discovers  all  over  again  that 
Mr.  Chaplin  is  a  genuine  genius.  And  that 
cute  Coogan  baby! 

(Flash  ahead  to  1931 — ten  roaring  years. 
The  country  rises  to  cheer  "City  Lights," 
Chaplin's  first  picture  in  a  long  time.  Jackie 
Coogan,  in  long  pants,  signs  with  Paramount. 
But,  oh,  those  memories  of  "The  Kid"!  How 
about  a  revival?) 

A  XD  here's  another  picture  of  early  spring, 
-**a  decade  ago.  A  slender  little  stage  star 
named  Arliss — George  Arliss — has  just  turned 
out  a  picture  made  from  one  of  his  theatrical 
successes.  It's  "The  Devil,"  written  by  a 
promising  Hungarian  playwright  named  Mol- 
nar — Franz  Molnar. 

The  picture  kicked  up  no  sand.  Our  critic, 
praising  Mr.  Arliss'  "suave"  performance,  says 
the  film  itself  has  little  to  hold  the  interest. 
The  star  is  supported  by  Sylvia  Breamer,  Mrs. 
Arliss,  and  a  young  fellow  named  Edmund 
Lowe. 

'""THE  DEVIL"  was  soon  forgotten,  and 
•*■  Arliss  went  back  to  new  stage  triumphs. 
(In  1931?  Oh,  the  star  is  just  First  Gentle- 
man of  the  talking  screen,  with  a  hatful  of 
medals,  including  Photoplay's  golden  award 
for  "Disraeli"!) 

CEE  what  you  can  make  out  of  the  list  of 
'-'the  beautiful  ladies — and  one  lad — who 
adorn  our  portrait  gallery  this  early  post-war 
April — 

Alice  Calhoun,  May  McAvoy,  Gladys  Wal- 
ton, Charles  Ray,  Gladys  George,  Lucy  Cot- 
ton, Estelle  Taylor  and  Gloria  Swanson. 

Some  are  here — others  are  there — and  the 
galleries  go  on. 

A  SYMPOSIUM  on  marriage  this  month 
-**■.  .  .  Some  of  the  thoughts  we  print  on 
the  eternal  subject  .  .  .  Cecil  B.  DeMille: 
"If  genius  is  too  great  for  marriage,  it  is  poor 
genius."  Marshall  Xeilan:  "Motion  picture 
people  are  human.  Very  often  they  crave 
the  fireside  and  the  simple  life."  William  S. 
Hart:  "Man  was  made  for  woman,  woman  for 
man."  Anita  Stewart:  "Marriage  is  the  cul- 
mination of  all  emotion."  .  .  .  There!  Now 
we  know  all  about  marriage,  don't  we? 

MAURICE  MAETERLINCK,  the  Belgian 
poet  and  dramatist,  contributes  an  article 
to  this  month's  issue.  It's  called  "The 
Spiritual  Future  of  America  and  the  Movies." 
Here's  what  he  had  to  say — "The  cinema 
ought  to  be  an  art,  but  it  has  become  an  in- 
dustry. The  business  men  who  direct  it  are 
beginning  to  suspect  that  if  it  founders  as  an 
art,  it  will  founder  as  an  industry." 

WE  devote  a  page  to  the  red-hot  news  (in 
1921)  that  Marguerite  Clark  is  returning 
to  the  screen! 

Nothing  in  the  earlier  history  of  pictures 
had  caused  more  real  sadness  than  Marguerite's 
retirement  after  her  marriage  to  H.  Palmerston 
Williams  of  New  Orleans.  A  prime  favorite, 
that  pretty  little  girl,  and  the  fans  missed  her. 
So  this  month  we  announce  her  return,  to  the 
tune  of  a  page  of  pictures. 


•Scrambled  Wives"  was  the  title  of  the 
picture  that  was  to  bring  her  back,  after  a 
year  as  housewife.  But  she  soon  returned  to 
the  hearth — where  she  has  been  ever  since. 

rT,HIS  month  we  Actionize  the  picture  made 
■*■  from  "Sentimental  Tommy,"  by  Sir  James 
M.  Barrie  .  .  .  Quite  an  exceptional  picture. 
...  It  brought  out  Gareth  Hughes  with  a 
great  performance  whose  promise  was  never 
quite  lived  up  to  later  ...  It  gave  May 
McAvoy  her  first  fine  part,  preparing  her  for 
the  most  brilliant  job  she  ever  did — the  role 
opposite  Barthelmess  in  the  unforgettable  "En- 


The   unforgettable    baby.    Jackie 

Coogan  as  he  looked  in  the  days  of 

"The  Kid"  with  Chaplin — the  picture 

that  gave  him  to  the  screen 


chanted  Cottage."  And  a  very'  young  lady 
named  Virginia  Valli  was  well  met  in  a  sup- 
porting role. 

A  MONG  the  pictures  of  the  month  .  .  . 
-**-Dorothy  Phillips  and  James  Kirkwood  in 
"Man,  Woman,  Marriage"  .  .  .  Mr.  Tod 
Browning's  production  of  "Outside  the  Law," 
with  Priscilla  Dean,  Lon  Chaney  and  Wheeler 
Oakman.  Mr.  Browning  later  made  a  talkie 
of  it — years  later  .  .  .  Miss  Betty  Compson 
justifies  her  stardom  by  her  work  in  "Prisoners 
of  Love"  .  .  .  The  famous  horse-story, 
"Black  Beauty,"  comes  to  the  screen  in 
Yitagraph  form  .  .  .  Mary  Pickford's  new 
picture  is  "The  Love  Light."  It  draws  a 
panning  .  .  .  "Mamma's  Affair"  is  Connie 
Talmadge's  latest.  Kenneth  Harlan  is  her 
leading  man  .  .  .  Fatty  Arbuckle's  a  hit  in 
"Brewster's  Millions." 

GOSSIP  from  all  over  movieland,  as  of  a 
decade  back : 

Wallace  MacDonald  and  Doris  May  are 
engaged,  dears!  Wallace  is  the  well-known 
leading  man,  and  Doris  is  the  peachy  little 
girl  who  came  to  fame  opposite  Doug  Mac- 
Lean  in  'Twentv- Three  and  a  Half  Hours 
Leave." 

That  pretty  girl  is  still  appearing  in  the 
Kodak  ads.     (Sh — it's  Eleanor  Boardman!) 

Hobart  Bosworth  and  Mrs.  Cecile  Percival 
have  just  been  married.  Very  few  knew  that 
Hobart  was  divorced  from  his  first  wife,  Adele 
Farrington. 

Bill  Hart  says  that  when  his  Paramount 
contract  is  up  he's  going  to  retire  and  write 
books  "for  the  youth  of  America." 


Photoplay  Magazhn  inn.,  1 


101 


Adrian  designs  many  of  the  gowns  you 
admire  Ofl  the  KteetL  Mis  original 

dons  are  often  made  <->t  Skinnei 


JHodelL 


t 


ncj 


masterpieces 


"Skinner's  Crepes  com  Line  the  perfect  texture  and  draping 
qualities  needed  to  visualize  and  appreciate  a  new  model 
long  before  the  lines  of  the  dress  are  actually  completed.  " 

.  .  .  ADRIAN 

For  many  years  leading  motion  picture  stars  have 
owed  the  smartness  of  their  gowns  to  Adrian.  At 
his  studio  in  Hollywood,  this  noted  costume  de- 
signer has  direct  and  far-reaching  influence  on  the 
world  of  fashion.  Nothing  short  of  the  best  will 
do  in  his  selection  of  materials.  Hence  a  preference 
for  the  quality  that  has  made  Skinner  the  most 
famous  name  in  Silks. 


WILLIAM  SKINNER  &  SONS 

Chicago        Boston         Philadelphia        San  Francisco 

Mills.  Holyokc.  Mass.  Estab.  1848 


Skiiuier's 


Crepes 
Crepe  Satins 


Silk 


Georgettes 
Shantungs 


Chiffons 
Sport  Fabrics 


Obtainable  by  the  yard  at  leading  silk  departments.  Also 
in  ready-to-wear  dresses  and  ensembles  at  smart  shops. 


"LOOK  FOR  THE  NAME  IN  THE  SELVAGE' 


102 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


"MEUO-GLO 
stays  on  longer  yet 
does  not  clog  the  pores 
or  leave  the  skin  dry  " 
Miss  Barbara  Carrinston 
(well  known  opera  singer). 

NO 

WONDER 

Kill  Till  1 

WOMEN  EOVE 

urn  NEW 
I.1CE    POWDER 

Beautiful  women  use  MELLO-GLO,  because  a 
new,  exclusive  French  process  makes  this  the 
finest  and  purest  face  powder  known. 

Sifted  through  close-meshed  silk,  MELLO-GLO 
spreads  with  amazing  smoothness.  Its  odor,  del- 
icately fragrant.  One  natural  shade  that  blends 
perfectly  with  any  complexion,  bestowing 
upon  your  skin  a  fresh,  clear,  youthful  bloom. 

You  will  love  MELLO-GLO  because  ft  stays  on 
longer.  Unsightly  shine  is  banished.  No  dry  or 
flaky  appearance.  No  "drawn"  feeling  or  irri- 
tation. Just  exquisite  rose-petal  beauty,  that 
feels  as  fresh  and  lovely  as  it  looks. 

MELLO-GLO  Face  Powder  prevents  large  pores 
and  coarse  skin  texture.  If  you  wish  to  possess 
and  retain  a  girlish  complexion,  insist  on 
MELLO-GLO.  One  dollar  at  all  stores. 

For  fine,  dry  or  sensitive  skin,  ask  for  new 
light-weight   MELLO-GLO    in   blue-edged   box. 

Canadian  Agents,  Lyman  Agencies,  Limited,  Montreal 

MELLO-GLO  COMPANY  (Dept.  43) 

Statler  Bldg.,  Boston.  Mass. 

Please  find  10  cents  enclosed. Send  me  sample  of  MELLO- 
GLO  Face  Powder. 

Name 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 
Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Richard  Arlen 
Jean  Arthur 
George  Bancroft 
Clara  Bow 
Mary  Brian 
Martin  Burton 
Ruth  Chattcrlon 
June  Collyer 
Juliette  Compton 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlene  Dietrich 
Leon  Errol 
Stuart  Erwin 
Stanley  Fields 
Kay  Francis 
Skeets  Gallagher 


Mitzi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Mania  Manners 
Cyril  Maude 
Rosita  Moreno 
Barry  Norton 
Jack  Oakie 
Guy  Oliver 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
William  Powell 
Charles  Rogers 
Stanley  Smith 
Regis  Toomey 
Fay  VVray 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Luana  Alcaniz 
Robert  Ames 
Michael  Bartlett 
Warner  Baxter 
Humphrey  Bogart 
El  Brendel 
Lucile  Browne 
Robert  Burns 
Joan  Castle 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier.  Sr 
Joyce  Compton 
Roxanne  Curtis 
Fifi  Dorsay 
Charles  F'arrell 
John  Garrick 
Janet  Gaynor 
C.  Henry  Gordon 
Louise  Huntington 
Warren  Hymer 
Keating  Sisters 
Richard  Keene 
Jane  Keith 
Nancy  Kelly    ' 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
Elissa  Landi 


Dixie  Lee 

Marion  Lessing 
George  Lewis 
Myrna  Loy 
Edmund  Lowe 
Claire  Luce 
Sharon  Lynn 
1  May 

Jeanettc  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 
Frances  McCoy 
Victor  McLaglen 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Lois  Moran 
J.  Harold  Murray 
George  O'Brien 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Nat  Pendleton 
Will  Rogers 
David  Rollins 
Jillian  Sand 
John  Swor 
Lee  Tracy 
Spencer  Tracy 
Ruth  Warren 
John  Wayne 
Marjorie  White 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Address. 


Kindly  write  here  name  of  your  favorite  store: 


Amos  and  Andy 
Henry  Armetta 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoc  Ates 
Evelyn  Brent 
Sue  Carol 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Betty  Compson 
Ricardo  Cortez 
Bebe  Daniels 
John  Darrow 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Eddie  Foy,  Jr. 
Noel  Francis 
Ralf  Harolde 


Hugh  Herbert 
Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Everett  Marshall 
Joel  McCrea 
Jack  Mulhall 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Roberta  Robinson 
Lowell  Sherman 
Katya  Sorina 
Ned  Sparks 
Leni  Stengel 
Bert  Wheeler 
Robert  Woolsey 


Warner  Bros.  Studios,  5842  Sunset  Blvd. 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Noah  Beery 
Joan  Blondell 
Joe  E.  Brown 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Claudia  Dell 
Irene  Delroy 
Robert  Elliott 
Frank  Fay 


John  Halliday 
Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
Marian  Marsh 
Edward  Morgan 
Olsen  and  Johnson 
Barbara  Weeks 
Jack  Whiting 


Joan  Bennett 
Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ronald  Colman 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 
Al  Jolson 


Evelyn  Laye 
June  MacCloy 
Una  Merkel 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St. 


Richard  Cromwell 
Constance  Cummings 
Ralph  Graves 
lack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Margaret  Livingston 


Bert  Lytell 
Dorothy  Revier 
Dorothy  Sebastian 
Miriam  Seegar 
Barbara  Stanwyck 


Culver  City,  Calif. 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


William  Bakewell 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Edwina  Booth 
John  Mack  Brown 
Lenore  Bushman 
Harry  Carey 
Joan  Crawford 

Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Douglass 
Marie  Dressier 
Cliff  Edwards 
Julia  Faye 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
William  Haines 
Hedda  Hopper 
Lottice  Howell 
Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Arnold  Korff 
Andre  Luguet 


Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  and  Russell 

Gleason 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Ellen  McCarthy 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Robert  Montgomery 
Grace  Moore 
Polly  Moran 
Catherine  Moylan 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Edward  Nugent 
Anita  Page 
Lucille  Powers 
Marie  Prevosl 
Marjorie  Rambeau 
Duncan  Renaldo 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Ranuel  Torres 
LesU  r  Vail 


Ann  Harding 
Eddie  Quillan 
Helen  Twelvetrees 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 


Universal  City,  Calif. 

Universal  Studios 


Margaret  Adams 
Lew  Ayres 
John  Boles 
Hoot  Gibson 
Bela  Lugosi 
Charles  Murray 


Mary  Nolan 
George  Sidney 
Slim  Summerville 
Genevieve  Tobin 
Lupe  Velez 
John  Wray 


Burbank,  Calif. 
First  National  Studios 


Richard  Barthelmess 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Glenda  Farrcll 
Joe  Frisco 
Walter  Huston 
Fred  Kohler 
Dorothy  Mackaill 


David  Manners 
Marilyn  Miller 
Ona  Munson 
Dorothy  Peterson 
James  Rennie 
Otis  Skinner 
Loretta  Young 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Ina  Claire 
Claudette  Colbert 
Norman  Foster 
Miriam  Hopkins 


Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Ginger  Rogers 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Slarrett 
Ed  Wynn 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire,  1212  Gower  St. 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd.  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy.  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Jackie  Coogan,  673  S.  Oxford  Ave. 
Pat  O'Malley.  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St. 
Ruth  Roland.  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor,  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray,  22  E.  60th  St.,  New  York 

William  S.  Hart.  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsv    Ruth   Miller,   808    Crescent   Drive,   Beverly 

Hills.  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane  request  that  their 

mail  be  sent  to  them  in  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.     No 

street  address  is  necessary. 


Photoplay  Magazine  rem  Aran  .  1     i 


JOHN  HELD,  JR. 

SPONSORS  OUR 

'Letter  of  Congratulation* 

CONTEST 

$2050.00  in  70  cash  prizes 

YOU  MAY  WIN $1000.00 


SEACRtST 

OLD    OBCMA8D.    MAINE 


3} 


vSiOLA^ 


|    -  \  i^K, 


&9J 


\  \      i   '.  •  oei'voV-rxLiO 
Ivm        Pxj»<5    |*S      la   Utvj.v«.   tLa.  d»'iaTt>act~ 

.  •  f    4-A-fcJij^.".        £   fcJL>-^J  cTUsJ>      ua  "TtX. 

1 


Iu_m 


"+b  "tt-fc-     c£uJ>  (SDv-s-v^. . 


Gsc 


J 


°-H 


One  of  the  finest  things  in  life  is  the  unselfish  plea- 
sine  we  feel  at  the  success  and  achievement  of  some 
one  dear  to  ns.  But  we  are  so  often  remiss  in  our 
expression  of  that  sentiment  .  .  .  particularly  when 
the  message  must  needs  be  written  instead  of  spoken. 

And  what  a  pity  that  we  should  be  so  carch--! 
For  even  the  briefest  of  notes  to  the  adoring  parents  of 
a  new  baby  ...  to  the  woman  whose  husband  has  re- 
ceived a  promotion  ...  to  the  girl  whose  engagement 
has  been  announced  ...  to  the  boy  or  girl  just  gradu- 
ated from  school  or  college  .  .  .  will  repay  us  a  thou- 
sand-fold in  the  happiness  it  brings  to  them. 

Write  such  a  letter  for  the  John  Held,  Jr.,  "Letter 
of  Congratulation"  Contest.  It  may  be  to  any  one  at  all 
on  whom  some  honor  has  fallen.  And  it  has  a  chance 
to  win  a  total  prize  of  $1000  ...  or  one  of  twenty-three 
other  cash  prizes  in  this  monthly  contest  ...  or  one  of 
100  awards  of  Eaton's  Highland  Vellum.  It's  very 
simple  to  enter.  Read  the  rules  on  this  page.  This  is 
the  third  and  last  of  the  monthlv  contests. 


EATON'S 


RULES  OF  THE  CONTEST 
During  February,  March  and  \pri',  Eaton,  Crane  <!v  Pike  Co. 
are  offering  prizes  for  a  particular  kind  of  letter.  1  or  April 
they  Will  award  prizes  in  the  John  Held.  Jr..  "Letter  of  Congral- 
illation"  Contest  a-  follow-:  fir-t  prize.  5150;  second  prize,  SS0; 
third  prize.  ;J">;  five  fourth  prizes,  $15  each;  five  fifth  pn 
$10  each;  ten  sixth  prize-.  >5  each;  100  seventh  prizes,  one  box 
of  Eaton's  Highland  Vellum  I'.n  h. 

An  additional  grand  prize  of  1850  WlD  be  offered  for  the 
be-t  letter  written  during  the  entire  series  of  conte-t-.  making  il 
possible  for  some  one  to  win  a  total  of  >ln00! 

All  letters  in  the  John  Held.  Jr..  "letter  of  Congratulation"' 
Contest  mu-t  l>e  in  the  mails  by  midnight  of  April  30,  1931. 

Each  letter  mu-t  be  addressed  to  Content  Editor,  Eaton, 
Crane  &  Pike  Co.,  Pitt-lield.  Mi--.,  and  marked  plainly  '"Letter 
of  Congratulation"'  Contest,  You  may  write  as  many  letters  as 
you  wish. 

Your  full  name  and  address  mu-t  appear  on  the  reverse  side 
of  the  sheet  or  at  the  bottom  of  the  last  page.  Letters  m.i\  be 
typed  or  in  longhand.  There  is  no  limit  to  the  length  of  the 
letters.    No  letter-  will  be  returned. 

The  winners  will  be  announced  in  the  October  issue  of  this 

magazine.  In  ease  of  a  tie  for  any  award,  the  full  amount  of  the 
award  will  he  given  to  each  of  the  tying  contestants.  The  letter- 
will  be  judged  solely  on  what   you 

Pinal  judge-:  Emily  Post,  authority  on  social  usage;  Mice 
Duer  Miller,  author  of  "Green  Isle"  and  other  novels  and  storie-  ; 
and  John  Held,  Jr.,  famous  humori-t. 

The  note  of  congrat- 
ulntinn  it  d  0  "  D  I  y 
charming  when  Writ- 
ten on  attractive  sta- 
tioner). Thr  iplendid 
u  riling  surface  of 
Eaton'  *  II  in  lila  nd 
i'cllum  and  Eaton's 
Highland  Limn,  it 
popular  uith  men 
and     if  omen     alike. 

50c      tO      13.50,      !</ler- 

food  <tnlionf>ry 
is  sold.  Eaton,  Crane 
&  Pike  Co^  Pitts- 
field,  Mass. 


HIGHLAND  VELLUM 


HIGHLAND  LINEN 


104 

yie  wants  to 

hiOWBDTj/l£ 

"hates  to  adiC 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


Girls'  Problems 


Then  why  not  send  for 
this  booklet  of  facts  ? 

NOW  and  again  a  young  wife 
enters  her  married  life  with 
knowledge  of  the  necessary  facts 
clear  and  true  in  her  mind,  But  she 
is  the  exception — not  the  rule. 
Most  women  are  faced  with  a 
problem.  Naturally  they  hate  to 
ask  others.  And  when  they  do, 
they  are  more  than  likely  to  be  disappointed  by 
the  information  they  receive.  It  is  all  so  con- 
fusing, so  conflicting. 

Danger  in  poisonous  antiseptics 

The  whole  question  of  feminine  hygiene  centers 
upon  the  antiseptic.  Much  as  doctors  and  trained 
nurses  approve  of  surgical  cleanliness,  they  will, 
not  approve  of  poisonous  antiseptics.  They  know 
the  dangers — deadened  membranes,  areas  of  scar- 
tissue,  interference  with  normal  secretions. 

But  Zonite  is  different.  Zonite  is  the  safe  and  effec- 
tive germicide  for  feminine  hygiene.  Non-poison- 
ous. Non-caustic.  Yet  far  more  fowerful  than  any  di- 
lution of  carbolic  acid  that  may  he  allowed  on  the  body. 

Zonite  booklet  tells  all  j acts 

Send  coupon  below  for  "The  Newer  Knowledge 
of  Feminine  Hygiene."  This  up-to-date  booklet 
is  a  thorough  education  on  the  subject.  Read  it — 
and  there  will  be  no  need  to  ask  anybody.  Zonite 
Products  Corporation,  Chrvsler  Building,  New 
York,  N.  Y. 


roth  in  U.  S.  A. 
and  Canada 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  16  ] 


Zonite  has  remarkable  qualities  as  a  deodorant 

ZONITE  PRODUCTS  CORPORATION  P1I-14 

Chrysler  Building,  New  York,  N    Y. 

Please  send  me  free  copy  of  the  bookler  or  hooklers  checked 
below . 

BThe  Newer  Knowledge  of  Feminine  Hygiene 
Use  of  Anciscptici  in  the  Home 

Name 

(JPUjh  print  rumr") 

Address 

City Stare 

(In  Canada:  165  DuITenn  St.,  Toronto) 


"The  girls  began  to  call  her  '  Polly  good-for- 
her'  because  when  they  offered  her  something 
good  to  eat  she  frequently  answered,  'but  it 
isn't  good  for  me.' 

"She  had  begun  to  wear  trimmer  clothes  to 
suit  the  trimmer  lines  of  her  figure.  She  had 
brushed  her  hair  back  from  her  face.  She  had 
become  much  more  particular  about  the  brands 
of  powder  and  rouge  that  she  used.  And  she 
made  a  point  of  getting  enough  sleep — actually 
left  parties  at  the  height  of  the  fun  because  she 
had  to  be  up  early  the  next  morning  and  needed 
her  rest. 

"COME  of  the  boys  were  real  put  out  about 
^it  at  times,  but  she  just  let  them  do  the 
worrying.     If  they  didn't  like  it,  they  didn't 
need  to  ask  her,  seemed  to  be  her  attitude. 

"One  day  when  the  girls  were  kidding  her 
about  having  become  so  precise  in  her  habits, 
and  were  probably  looking  at  her  new  pretti- 
ness  a  little  jealously,  she  made  a  remark  which 
did  a  lot  to  alter  my  own  way  of  living  and 
thinking. 

"And  what  you  said  about  Polly  shows  that 
you  have  something  to  learn,  too. 

"She  said  that  the  doctor  to  whom  her 
mother  sent  her  for  treatment  had  told  her 
there  is  no  more  fallacious  saying  than  that 
'beauty  is  skin  deep,  but  ugliness  goes  to  the 
bone.'  He  told  her  that  beauty  comes  right 
out  from  the  core  of  one's  being,  from  one's 
state  of  mental  and  physical  health. 

"He  showed  her  how  she  was  ruining  her 
digestion  by  overindulging  in  desserts  and 
palate-tickling  foods,  instead  of  'majoring'  in 
the  life-giving  ones.  He  said  that  the  best  com- 
plexion in  the  world  could  be  ruined  by  con- 
tinued intestinal  disturbances.  He  taught  her 
how  to  combine  soap  and  water  with  some  well- 
selected  preparations  for  the  care  of  her  skin. 
He  explained  the  necessity  of  spending  a 
certain  length  of  time  outdoors  every  day,  of 
drinking  plenty  of  water,  of  letting  the  mind 
and  body  rest  for  the  next  day's  activities. 

"And  he  evidently  scared  her  just  a  little — 
told  her  she  would  be  old  and  gray  before  her 
time,  would  lose  the  promise  of  beauty  that 
was  already  there  if  she  continued  to  disregard 
every  rule  of  health. 

"  I  don't  mean  that  she  didn't  ever  backslide 
— stay  out  late  the  night  before  an  important 
exam,  or  stop  for  a  butterscotch  nut  sundae  an 
hour  before  dinner.  But  she  didn't  make  a 
practice  of  these  things.  Most  of  the  time  she 
was  temperate  and  careful.  And,  believe  me, 
it  has  paid  her  to  be.  I  think  she's  more  than 
pretty  now.  In  this  last  year  she  has  actually 
become  beautiful.  Maybe  that's  because  she 
is  doing  such  interesting  work,  and  her  face 
lights  up  so  when  she  talks  about  it — which,  as 
you  know,  is  practically  all  the  time!" 

'•  T'LL  say  it  is!"  was  Marge's  final  contemptu- 
ous comment  as  she  suddenly  realized  they 
were  at  her  station.  She  seemed  determined 
to  find  something  to  criticize  in  the  absent 
Polly,  even  though  she  had  been  well  talked 
down  by  the  more  fair-minded  girl. 

As  she  turned  to  leave  the  train,  I  caught  my 
first  glimpse  of  her  face.  And  I  fervently 
hoped  that  she  had  taken  Polly's  experience  to 
heart. 

Her  poor,  abused  skin  fairly  cried  out  for 
some  of  the  treatment  Polly  had  given  hers. 

I'll  wager  that  by  this  time  she  is  beginning 
to  prove  for  herself  that  beauty  is  far  more 
than  skin  deep. 

Clare  Lorisr: 

You  neglected  to  mention  your  age,  Clare 
Louise,  so  it  is  difficult  for  me  to  judge  what 
you  should  weigh.    If  you  are  between  seven- 


teen and  twenty,  however,  your  weight  is  cor- 
rect for  your  height.  Use  a  light  rachel  powder 
and  a  medium  rouge,  matching  your  lipstick  to 
your  rouge. 

Colette: 

Perhaps  in  trying  to  eradicate  the  pimples 
you  are  causing  those  little  brown  spots  of 
which  you  complain.  My  complexion  leaflet 
will  help  you.  Just  send  a  stamped,  self- 
addressed  envelope  with  your  request,  as  there 
is  no  charge  for  this  information. 

You  are  a  trifle  underweight,  Colette,  but 
your  measurements  are  in  excellent  propor- 
tion. 

Jacqueline  : 

Warm  water  should  be  used  for  shampooing, 
but  it  is  an  excellent  practice  to  use  cool  or 
cold  water,  as  you  prefer,  for  the  final  rinse,  to 
close  the  pores. 

Unless  your  skin  seems  to  require  it,  it  might 
be  well  to  use  the  cold  cream  only  in  the  day- 
time, and  not  at  night.  Young  skins  like  yours 
need  only  a  little  protective  and  preventive 
care. 

Margaret: 

Your  weight  of  125  pounds  was  exactly 
correct  for  your  height  and  age,  so  I  feel  you 
made  a  mistake  in  reducing  to  105  pounds.  A 
growing  girl  sometimes  needs  a  little  extra 
weight.  If  you  are  careful  not  to  over-indulge 
in  pastries  and  candy  you  will  find  that  you  can 
eat  without  giving  any  thought  to  your  food, 
except  to  enjoy  it,  and  your  normal  weight  will 
return  as  a  matter  of  course. 

Yes,  I  think  your  natural  eyebrows  must 
have  been  more  attractive  than  the  too-thin 
ones  you  now  have.  You  can  shape  them  a 
little,  if  necessary,  but  let  them  broaden  out  a 
bit,  just  as  they  were  in  the  beginning.  That 
extremely  thin  line  is  no  longer  fashionable, 
and  it  certainly  was  not  pretty. 

Leona: 

These  are  the  colors  that  should  be  most  be- 
coming to  you:  deep,  rich  reds  and  wine;  terra 
cotta,  buff  and  apricot;  mahogany  and  bronze- 
brown;  dark,  soft  greens  with  bluish  cast, 
avoiding  the  olive  greens;  dark  blue,  ivory  and 
cream  white. 

K.  B.: 

Mary  Brian  is  a  very  interesting,  attractive 
type,  and  if  you  are  somewhat  like  her  she  will 
make  an  excellent  model  for  you  to  follow.  But 
no  girl  wants  to  make  herself  just  an  imitation 
of  someone  else — even  if  that  someone  is  as 
charming  and  popular  as  Mary.  Let  Mary  be 
your  general  guide  to  clothes,  hairdressing  and 
manner,  but  don't  stifle  your  own  individuality 
in  an  effort  to  be  a  mere  "carbon-copy."  I'm 
sure  she  wouldn't  be  flattered  by  that,  and  you 
wouldn't  be  happy. 

Use  a  light  rachel  powder,  a  medium  rouge 
and  matching  lipstick.  Your  best  colors  should 
be  rich,  vivid  blues;  amber,  creamy  yellows 
and  beige;  most  shades  of  brown;  flesh  pink 
and  coral;  ivory  and  cream  white;  and  clear 
reds  that  are  not  too  vivid. 

Next  month  I  am  going  to  tell  you 
some  of  the  methods  the  screen  stars 
use  to  preserve  their  good  looks.  Al- 
most every  actress  has  some  little 
beauty  secret  of  her  own  that  has 
helped  to  preserve  the  loveliness  of 
skin  and  hair  and  figure.  I  begged  for 
a  few  of  these  "secrets"  and  promised 
I  would  tell  them  only  to  PHOTO- 
PLAY'S almost  a  million  readers! 


Pho i  «  M  toAznra  i  oa  Afkxl,  r    I 


105 


I  to  Other  One 


'0, 


Like  yoii 

'  1  1;  DANCE,** a  voice  was  saying. 
Helen  turned,  but  there  \*.i-  .1  startled  l<M)k  on  a 
strange  face.  '*0h,**  be  said,  "I  beg  \ our  pardon.  I*m 
afraid  I S  e  made  a  mistake !  ' 

Helen  blushed  scarlet.  She  bad  feared  something  like 
thisfromthatmomentinthedressingroomwhensbehad 
seen  I5eti\  Ward  arrive  in  a  dress  exactly  like  her  own. 

\\  ben  Bhe  had  bought  1 1 1  < -  dress,  I  lelen  had  thought 
of  ways  she  might  change  it.  It  wasn't  «piite  becom- 
ing, anyway,  but  it  seemed  the  best  value  for  what  she 
could  spend  and  the  shop  had  assured  her  it  was  one 
of  a  "special  lot." 

How  she  got  through  the  evening  she  never  knew, 
but  tins  was  certain — never  could  she  wear  that  dress 
(o  the  club  again.  A  thousand  times  Helen  had  wished 
Bbe  could  make  her  own  clothes.  She  knew  so  well 
what  she  would  like  to  have — just  what  color  of 
fabric  seemed  to  put  a  glow  in  her  cheeks,  a  new 
sparkle  in  her  eyes.  Just  what  lines  set  off  her  figure 
— what  decorative  touches  spoke  for  her  as  she  really 
was.  Never  yet  had  she  found  in  the  shopsa  dress  that 
<  ontpletely  satisfied  her.  Ifonlv  by  some  magic  means— • 

And  then — just  then  as  though  her  wish  were  heard 
and  answered,  Helen  learned  that  there  uw.s  a  wav 
that  she  could  create  for  herself  the  lovely  clothes  she 
wanted — ves,  Helen  who  had  never  sewn  a  stitch  in 
her  life.  Right  in  her  own  town  there  were  waiting 
for  her  the  personal  help  of  a  sympathetic  teacher, 
wonderful  electric  machines  to  use  and  every  con- 
venience one  could  want. 

Never  had  she  know  n  such  happy  afternoons  as  those 
thai  followed,  when  sbepored  over  fashion  pages  of  the 
magazines,  explored  the  tempting,colorful  fabric  conn- 

ters  and  then  watched  a  dress  grow  to  loveliness — 
jn-t  as  she  had  hoped  and  dreamed.  Not  just  one  dress, 
but  another  and  another  at  unbelievably  little  cost. 
No  wonder  she  laughed  a  joyous  little  laugh  in  her 
heart  when,  at  the  club,  a  voice — no  longer  strange 

—  whispered,  "This  is  our  dance.  I'm  sure  because 

—  well,  in  all  the  world  there's  no  other  one  like  vou!"' 


Haven't  you  wished   for  the 

-kill  tomakeclothesthatreallv 
express  your  individuality  'i 
You  can  liave  them  now  ;  for 
modern  patterns,  modern 
methods  and  thcmodernSinger 
Electric  have  made  all  sewing 
a  delight.  And  the  Singer  Sew  - 
ing  Schools  are  ready  to  gi\e 
you  just  the  help  and  the  con- 
fidence you  need,  without  one 
cent  of  cost  to  vou.  There  is 
one  of  these  Schools  not  far 
from  vou,  where  vou  will  be 


guided  step  by  step  through 
the  making  of  the  dreasof  toot 

choice.  \  mi  M  ill  be  -how  n  how 
loaded   1  h«-comini;  design  ,md 

materials,  and  bow   to  make, 

lit  and  Imi-li  roar  diUM  com- 
nletely.  to  the  last  distinctive 
bit  of  decoration.  In  just 
a  few  ta-cinating  after- 
noon s  or  evenings  \ou  will 
learn  the  modern  meth- 
od- that  will  make  for- 
c\  cr-i  mpletherreat  ion  of 
Mnir  own  smart  clothes. 


SINGER  SEWIXG  SCHOOLS 

Conducted  6v  SIX. I  It  SEWI>T.   MACUBU  TO. 


Copyright  U.  S.  A.  1930-1951.  by  the  Singer  Manufacturing  Co. 
All  rights  reserved  for  all  countries. 


//  yen  would  like  to  know  tow  you  can  learn  to  make  vmr 

Own  dresses,  fni;  at  the  nearest  Singer  Sett  i nil  School, 
telephone  or  call  (it  the  Singer  Shop  in  your  community. 
Simply  look  in  your  teleplxone  directory  far  the  nearest 
address  of  the  Sine.iT  Sewing  Machine  Company.  Or  send 
Oxe  coupon  ftnflHIl  and  full  information  alxiut  this  new 
plan  u  ill  come  to  you  at  once. 


si\<;kr  sfwim;  MACHINE  ro..  inc. 

I)r|.l.  I)-l  18.  SinrcT  Bia».        New  Y.*k.  K.T. 

PIMM   tell  me    jbo.it     ihe    Sinter     - 
School  ncirr.t  no    home  ami  how   I  may  have 
free  |wr.onal  instruction. 

l\'amr 

.Street 

On Saw -- 


io6 


Photoplay  Magazink  for  April.  1931 


T€LLS  fxG/ud/U 


LfiSH€S  STfiV  SOFT 

A  chic  woman  said:  "I  like  a  slight  dark 
accent  on  my  lashes.  Nothing  else  is  quite 
so  flattering.  But  I  just  won't  use  ordinary 
cosmetiques.  I  don't  want  my  lashes  to  be  brit- 
tle or  'made-up'  looking.  What  shall  I  do?" 
. . .  Have  you  tried  the  new  Liquid  Winx?  It 
was  created  for  just  this  need — a  cosmetique 
that  won't  make  lashes  brittle.  For  it  sojlens 
as  well  as  beautifies  lashes.  A  new  discovery 
—  the  Double  Treatment  formula  —  makes 
this  possible.  The  new  Liquid  Winx  gives  the 
lashes  a  smart,  natural  and  flattering  accent. 
But  —  no  matter  how  often  you  use  Winx, 
lashes  stay  soft  and  silk v! 


Liquid  Winx  is  absolutely  waterproof. 
75c — at  department  and  drug  stores. 

For  those  who  prejer  the  solid  jorm 
COfmttique,  IFinxotfcrsCake.  I  See  the 
illustration  above.)  It  is  packed  in  a 
charming  sihery  compact  which  fits 
into  Vic  flattest  handbag.  $1.00. 


uumx 

for  Lovely  Lashes 


Rules  of  $2,000  Story  Contest 


See  Pages  66-67 


1.  Stories  must  be  submitted  in  typewrit- 
ing. They  can  be  from  1,000  to  5,000  words  in 
length,  but  must  not  exceed  5,000  words.  All 
stories  should  be  written  on  one  side  of  the 
sheets  of  paper  and  mailed  in  a  postpaid 
envelope  to: 

Judges,  Photoplay  Magazine- Warner  Bros. 

Story  Contest,  221  West  57th  Street, 

Xew  York  City. 

2.  Stories  should  not  be  submitted  before 
May  15th,  and  the  Contest  will  close  at  mid- 
night on  July  15th. 

3.  Stories  will  be  read,  prior  to  award  of 
prizes,  only  by  the  Judges  of  the  Contest  and 
persons  employed  by  them  for  that  purpose. 
The  Judges  of  the  Contest  will  submit  such 
stories  to  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  the 
Judges  deem  suitable  for  picture  purposes.  Xo 
stories  will  be  returned  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
Contest.  They  may  at  the  option  of  Photo- 
play Magazine  be  destroyed  or  kept  on  file. 

4.  Every  story  must  be  signed  with  the  full 
name  of  the  person  submitting  the  same  and 
must  be  accompanied  by  the  form  or  a  copy  of 
the  form  which  appears  on  this  page,  per- 
sonally signed  by  the  contestant,  together  with 
his  or  her  full  address,  in  which  the  contestant 
agrees  to  the  conditions  set  forth  therein  and 
herein.  These  rules  and  the  form  should  be 
read  carefully  by  contestants  before  submis- 
sion. 

5.  Everyone,  whether  a  subscriber  or 
reader  of  Photoplay  Magazine  or  not,  may 
enter  this  Contest,  except  persons  in  any  way 
connected  with  Photoplay  Magazine  or  War- 
ner Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  their  relatives  or  mem- 
bers of  their  households,  or  anyone  actively 
employed  in  the  production  department  of  any 
other  motion-picture  company. 

6.  The  Board  of  Judges  shall  consist  of 
three  persons  to  be  chosen  by  the  Editor  of 
Photoplay  Magazine.  The  decision  of  the 
Judges  shall  be  final. 

7.  The  winner  of  the  Contest  shall  receive 
S2.000  in  cash.  In  case  of  a  tie  equal  prizes  of 
S2,000  each  shall  be  awarded  to  each  tying 
contestant. 

8.  It  is  the  desire  of  Warner  Bros.  Pictures. 
Inc.,  to  secure  as  many  original  stories  suited 
for  dramatic  purposes  as  is  possible.  It  is  un- 
derstood that  the  Editor  of  Photoplay"  Maga- 
zine or  the  Judges  of  this  Contest  will  submit 
to  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  such  stories  in 
addition  to  the  one  selected  as  winner  of  the 
prize  as  they  or  any  of  them  deem  suited  for 
dramatic  purposes.  It  is  understood  that 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  pay  an  equal 
prize  of  $2,000  for  each  such  story,  if  any,  as  is 
so  submitted  to  and  approved  by  it  and  used 
by  it  for  the  production  of  a  motion  picture 
based  wholly  upon  such  story. 

9.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  will  donate 
the  prize  or  prizes  which  Photoplay  Magazine 


will  pay  for  the  winning  story  and  for  such  ad- 
ditional stories,  if  any,  as  may  be  selected  by 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  hereinabove 
mentioned.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  will 
be  entitled  to  full  and  complete  rights  of  every 
nature  for  any  and  all  purposes  throughout  the 
world  in  and  to  all  stories  submitted  as  well 
as  to  use  the  name  of  any  successful  contestant 
in  connection  therewith.  Warner  Bros.  Pic- 
tures, Inc.,  may  use  any  story  in  whole  or  in 
part,  alter  the  same,  change  the  title,  and  re- 
quire the  execution  of  any  papers  by  any  suc- 
cessful contestant  which  it  deems  necessary  or 
expedient. 

10.  There  is  always  danger  that  contestants 
become  so  convinced  of  the  merit  or  originality 
of  their  own  stories  or  ideas  that  they  are  sus- 
picious when  they  see  something  approximat- 
ing theirs  which  may  come  from  another 
source.  To  avoid  all  questions  of  this  sort  or 
of  any  other  character  whatsoever,  all  con- 
testants must  submit  and  will  be  deemed  to 
have  submitted  their  story  or  stories  and  ideas 
upon  the  distinct  agreement  and  understanding 
that  neither  Photoplay  Magazine  nor  Warner 
Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  be  liable  in  any  way 
save  to  pay  such  prize  or  prizes  as  may  be 
awarded  and  that  said  Photoplay  Magazine 
and  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  are  released 
from  any  and  all  liability  for  any  cause  or  rea- 
son by  each  contestant. 

1 1 .  Every  effort  will  be  made  by  the  Editor 
of  Photoplay  Magazine  and  the  Judges  to 
make  this  Contest  as  fair  and  open  as  possible 
and  to  conduct  it  in  strict  accordance  with  the 
Rules  of  the  Contest.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures 
Inc..  will  simply  donate  the  prize  or  prizes  and 
will  be  under  no  obligation  either  legal  or  moral 
to  do  anything  except  to  donate  the  same. 

12.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  not  be 
bound  to  use  any  of  the  stories  even  if  they 
win  prizes  and  shall  not  be  bound  to  produce  a 
motion  picture  from  the  prize  winning  story  or 
any  story  that  may  be  selected  and  paid  for  by 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc..  as  aforesaid.  All 
copyrightable  matter  and  all  rights  therein,  in- 
cluding the  copyright  and  the  right  to  secure 
and  renew  the  same,  shall  be  the  property  of 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures.  Inc. 

13.  Stories  expressed  in  exactly  the  same 
language  or  slight  variations  of  the  same  lan- 
guage, which  would  seem  to  indicate  collusion 
between  different  individuals,  shall  not  be  sub- 
mitted although  any  one  person  may  submit 
stories  based  upon  the  same  central  ideas  but 
having  different  treatments. 

14.  Xo  profane,  immoral,  libelous  or  copy- 
righted matter  shall  be  submitted. 

15.  While  facility  of  writing  and  style  of  ex- 
pression are  not  necessary  to  the  winning  of 
the  prize,  the  clearness  and  specific  quality  of 
the  story  or  idea  will  be  considered. 

16.  Any  single  individual  may  submit  any 
number  of  stories. 


IMPORTANT 


This  Coupon  or  copy  of  this  Coupon 
must  accompany  each  story 


In  submitting  the  accompanying  story  as  a  con- 
testant for  the  cash  prize  offered  by  Photoplay 
Magazine,  I  agree  to  all  of  the  terms  and  conditions 
contained  in  the  "Rules  of  the  Contest"  as  pub- 
lished in  said  magazine,  which  terms  and  conditions 
1  acknowledge  I  have  read,  and  in  consideration  of 
the  conduct  of  said  Contest  and  of  my  story  being 
examined  and  considered  in  said  Contest.  I  hereby 
release  said  Photoplay  Magazine.  Photoplay 
Publishing  Co.  and  Warner  Kros.  Pictures,  Inc., 
from  any  and  all  claims  or  liability,  present  or 
future,  by  reason  of  any  use  or  asserted  use  thereof, 
in  whole  orin  part,  in  any  form  or  manner,  by  cither 
of  them,  except  from  payment  of  a  prize  if  awarded 
to  me. 

I  state  that  this  story  is  wholly  original  with  me. 


I  hereby  grant  and  assign  this  story  and  all  of 
my  rights  of  every  nature  therein  throughout  the 
world  to  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co.  and  War- 
ner Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  together  with  the  exclu- 
sive right  to  use  same  in  any  form  or  manner,  and 
the  right  to  adapt,  add  to  or  substract  therefrom, 
without  any  compensation  to  me  or  my  legal  repre- 
sentatives, save  for  a  prize  of  $2,000  if  such  prize 
is  awarded  to  me,  pursuant  to  the  "Rules  of  the 
Contest.  ' 


.L.  S. 


Address 


I'ii pi  ay  Maga/.ini    i  ob  April,  i     i 


1  o 


WHAT  ABOUT  TRADER   HORN? 

WHAT  ABOUT  TRADER  HORN? 

WHAT  ABOUT  TRADER  HORN? 

The  ivorld  has  been  waiting  impatiently  while 
METROGOLDWYN-MAYER  has  been  pouring 
men,  money  and  genius  into  the  creation  of  its 
greatest  motion  picture!    AT  LAST — 


FILMED  IN 
THE  WILDS 
OF    AFRICA 

Based  on 
the  famous  novel 
by  TRADER  HORN  & 
ETHELREDA    LEWIS 


ted    and   has    been 
med   greater   than 
BIG  PARADE" 
han   "BEN  HUR," 
in  fact 

THE    GREATEST 
ADVENTURE 
PICTURE    OF 
ALL    TIME!" 

it  at  your   favorite  theatre 

A  METRO 

GOLDWYN 

MAYER 

AH -Talking  Picture 


io8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


Why  I  changed  to  Mar  lb  or os 


TT 

xXundreds  of  thousands  of  new  smokers  change... develop 
. . .  progress . . .  graduate  to  Marlhoros.  Help  us  put  into 
words   the   REASONS  for  this  ever-increasing  recognition. 

First  Prize  *1  OO  Cash 

lOO  PRIZES  TO  SMOKERS 


THOUSANDS  of  cheap  ciga- 
rettes, of  course,  are  still  sold 
for  every  carton  of  Marlboros. 
But . . .  past  year's  figures  show 
Marlboro  sales  forging  ahead 
at  a  record-breaking  rate.  Can 
you  say  why? 

We  know  many  reasons.  We 
want  yours.  For  the  best  hun- 
dred reasons  submitted  before 
the  last  day  of  next  June,  we 
will  award  100  prizes  as  listed. 
No  strings.  No  conditions.  Write 
in  your  own  words  your  own 
reasons  for  changing  to  Marl- 
boros. Not  more  than  50  words. 

lOO  Prizes! 

First  Prize 8100 

Second  Prize s75 

Third  Prize s50 

Fourth  Prize s25 

5th  to  K)th         each  si  0 

11*  tO  50th....    each«5 

5  lSt  tO  100th...     Library 
package  of  100  Marlboro  Cigarettes. 


Good  Reasons  for  Changing 

to  Marlboros: 

Marlboros  are  machine  packed, 
tips  DO ff.\ !  Nobody's  fingers  — 
not  even  your  own — can  soil  them. 

IVORY  TIPS 


Of  re  Lzip  Q) 


) is  u  ranee 

they  prevent  dangerous  infec- 
tion. Protect  torn,  chapped,  or 
rouge-roughened  lips. 
Ivory  Tipped  or  Plain,  Marlboros 
show  always  a  dainty  hostess.  Par- 
ticular people  are  careful  to  avoid 
cheap  cigarettes  for  dinner  and 
bridge  party  guests.  Smart 
debutantes  recognize  Marlboros 
as  a  suitable  accessory.  Success- 
ful men  demand  Marlboros  as  the 
cigarette  of  distinction. 
You,  yourself,  may  have  just 
progressed  . .  .  developed  . . .  grad- 
uated to  Marlboros.  Write  us  a 
few  words  about  your  reasons. 
This  courtesy  may  win  for  you 
one  of  100  prizes. 


CELECTED  winner?,  will  he  published 
*■)  in  magazines  and  newspapers.  No  fees 
or  payments  beyond  the  prizes.  W  e  cannot 
undertake  to  return  suggestions  nor  enter 
correspondence.  Prizes  duplicated  in  am 
tie.  Judges,  R.  M.  Ellis.  L.  B.  McKittcrick 
and  M.  J.  Sheridan,  of  Philip  Morris  «!t 
Co..  K.  M.  Goode,  advertising  consultant, 
and  Lee  Brown,  advertising  agent. 

Contest  Closes  June  30th,  1931 


PHILIP   MORRIS   &    CO. 

119-C   FIFTH  AVENUE,  NEW  YORK  CITY 

V  I        4/,/r/  „e   Mm.       \  "  V^ 


Mild  as  May 


A    CIGARETTE    FOR    THOSE    WHO    AFFORD    20c    FOR    THE    BEST 


Cal  York's  Monthly 

Broadcast  from 

Hollywood 

[  CONTIMKD  FROM  PACE  83  ] 


of  a  Boston  theater.    The  tune  was  "  Give  Me 
Something  to  Remember  You  By  " !    They  did. 

One  of  the  lads  went  out  of  the  freshman  class 
at  Harvard  on  the  first  bounce. 

And  here's  where  Rudy's  sense  of  humor 
came  in.  The  next  time  he  broadcast  over  the 
radio  he  announced  his  approaching  holiday 
in  Florida. 

And  when  I'm  down  there,"  said  Rudy,  "I 
hope  to  have  the  opportunity  to  autograph  a 
few  grapefruit  for  my  friends!" 

YOU  haven't  forgotten  yet,  have  you,  how 
Hollywood  used  to  thrill  over  the  story  of 
Ricardo  Cortez  and  Alma  Rubens? 

And  the  surprise  that  came  when  Alma,  after 
her  cure,  divorced  Ricardo. 

Xow  here's  another  facet  of  the  picture. 
While  Alma  lay  on  her  deathbed  a  few  weeks 
ago,  Ricardo  was  working  at  First  Xational 
studios,  utterly  unaware  of  how  dangerously  ill 
his  one-time  wife  was.  And  not  until  he  read 
in  the  papers,  the  following  day,  that  she  had 
died,  did  he  have  an  inkling  that  she  had  been 
ill. 

A  FTER  it  is  all  over  and  all  is  said  and  done, 
■**-perhaps  there  was  nothing  in  Alma  Ru- 
bens' life  as  pitiful  and  tragic  as  her  funeral. 
I  had  known  Alma  for  many  years  and  I  at- 
tended her  funeral  because  I  felt  I  wanted  to 
pay  my  respects.    I  quickly  turned  away. 

Her  mother,  in  order  to  give  everybody  a 
chance,  had  put  a  notice  in  the  paper  that  the 
funeral  would  be  public,  at  the  little  church 
in  Forest  Lawn.  And  while  there  were  at 
least  a  thousand  sightseers  on  the  outside 
stretching  at  the  ropes,  they  came  only  to  see 
the  stars  that  might  be  present  at  the  funeral 
and  they  did  not  want  to  come  inside  the 
church,  nor  did  they  come.  They  were  look- 
ing only  for  picture  people  and  not  interested 
at  all  in  Alma  Rubens.  There  were  no  picture 
people  there. 

On  the  inside  of  the  church  there  was  a  mere 
handful  of  thirty-live  people,  and  the  nearest 
approach  to  a  picture  person  was  Ricardo  Cor- 
tez' brother. 

To  me  it  was  one  of  the  most  pathetic  things 
I  ever  heard  of. 

HPHERE  is  a  big  to-do  about  the  signing  up — 
■*■  that's  what  they  call  hiring  them  in  pictures 
— of  Mme.  Chanel  to  design  clothes  for  the 
lady  United  Artists.  Far.  far  be  it  from  us  to 
intimate  that  business  is  bad  in  Paris  and  that 
Mr.  Sam  Goldwyn  sold  the  lady  on  the  idea 
that  it  would  be  good  publicity  for  her  Paris 
shop.  Incidentally,  it  is  also  good  publicity 
for  United  Artists. 

FOUR  years  ago,  when  Tom  Mix  was  writing 
for  Photoplay,  he  said: 

''Wives  even  get  together  and  frame  their 
husbands,  feeling  the  need  of  new  jewelry. 
Anything  to  get  their  feelings  salved  with  dia- 
mond dust.  You  can  go  into  the  Ambassador, 
or  the  Biltmore,  or  the  Montmartre  and  count 
the  diamond  bracelets  on  the  arms  of  the  wom- 
en present  and  tell  exactly  how  many  times 
their  husbands  came  home  stewed  in  the  past 
year." 

Maybe  Tom  was  cynical  even  before  he  was 
divorced!    He  goes  on: 

"  A  man  hasn't  got  a  chance  against  a  woman 
in  a  play  like  that.  The  quicker  he  finds  out 
her  objective  and  surrenders  to  it,  whether  it 
is  rubies  or  emeralds,  the  more  years  he  will 
have  to  be  a  sucker  in. " 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  110  ] 


PHOTOPl  W     M  \«.\/IM.    I'M;    Al'Kll..    !       | 


lO() 


FOREMOST   AUTOMOBILE 


Out  of  approximately  44  different  makes  of  \inerican  automo- 
biles, the  Cord  offers  the  exclusive  advantages  of  front-drive. .  . . 
\\  lien  introduced  about  a  year  and  a  half  ago,  the  Cord  was  an 
original,  distinct  advancement  against  the  background  of  all 
other  cars.  Since  then,  its  margin  of  fine-car  leadership  has 
widened  daily  due  to  the  experience  of  the  increasing 
number  of  Cord  owners.  .  .  .  That  it  is  foremost  in  design,  is 
evidenced  by  the  great  number  of  1931  models  patterned 
after  it.  both  here  and  abroad.  .  .  .  Now  for  the  first  time 
a  Cord  is  available  at   the  extremely  low  price  of  S2395. 

BROUGHAM  J2395  •  SEDAN  $2395  •  CONVERTIBLE  CABRIOLET  J2195  •  CONVERTIBLE 
PHAETON  SEDAN  $2595  .  Price*  f.  o.  h.  Vulnirn.  Indiana.  Eouipmmt  other  than  standard,  extra 
AUBURN       AUTOMOBILE      COMPANY.      ALBURN,       INDIANA 

CORD 

FRONT    DRIVE 


I  IO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


ENTRUST     YOUR 
LIPS     TO     YB  RY 


A 


kiss  in  the  dark 
. .  .  never  requires  later  ex- 
planations in  the  light  if  it's 
Lipstick  Ybry  she  wears! 
Truly  Permanent  —  Smooth  — 
Pure!  Scented  with  world's 
costliest  parfum  and  simply 
does  not  come  off. 

Featured  at  best  shops 


AMAZINGLY 
LOW  FOR 
A  FRENCH 
CREATION 


Ybry,  Inc.,  Depl.  P-4, 50  W.  57»h  St.,  New  York  City 
Please  send  trial  size  Ybry  lipstick — 10c  enclosed 
My  hair  is My  eyes  are 


Name 

Address 


'PLKX36  PWRT 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 

|  CONTINUED  FBOll  PACE  108  | 


A  S  the  late  cowboy,  Art  Acord,  rides  other 
-•"■ranges,  further  word  comes  of  his  suicide, 
not  so  long  ago,  in  Chihuahua,  Mexico. 

It  seems  that,  with  fortune  lost,  Art  had  de- 
termined to  try  one  more  screen  comeback. 
With  another  American,  an  unimpeachable  in- 
formant tells  us,  he  had  planned  to  be  kid- 
napped and  held  for  ransom  by  Mexican  ban- 
dits. 

But  it  all  fell  through.  An  attempt  to  recoup 
in  Mexico  failed. 

One  suicide  try  at  the  Palacio  Hotel  failed — 
his  American  friend  knocked  a  bottle  of 
cyanide  from  his  hands. 

But,  in  his  room  Art  had  hidden  another 
bottle  of  the  poison.  With  this  he  accomplished 
his  tragic  purpose. 

And  in  Hollywood,  where  his  body  had  been 
brought  by  former  comrades-in-arms,  Art, 
wearer  of  the  Croix  dc  Guerre  for  gallantry  in 
action  in  France,  was  laid  to  rest  with  all  the 
military  honors  that  had  been  dear  to  him  in 
life. 

•"THERE  is  dancing  on  the  village  green  in 
*-  Hollywood  and  gay  carols  are  being  sung 
up  and  down  the  boulevards. 


Eric  Von  Stroheim  is  about  to  begin  a  pic- 
ture. 

The  actors  who  have  been  cast  are  preparing 
to  build  new  homes  in  which  to  deliver  them- 
selves of  progeny. 

By  the  time  the  picture  is  finished,  the 
children  born  during  its  making  will  be  ready 
to  play  juvenile  leads. 

NOW  we  learn  that  "Cimarron" 
cost  $1,750,000— in  round  figures 
— to  produce. 

We,   old   cynics,    agree   that   the 
picture  was  worth  it. 

npWO  former  picture  favorites  have  been  fa- 
*■  vored  with  vaudeville  bookings  by  Radio- 
Keith-Orpheum. 

One  is  Blanche  Sweet.  The  former  Mrs. 
Marshall  Neilan  opened  in  Elizabeth,  N.  J.,  in 
a  singing  specialty.  She  is  asking  $2,500  a 
week  for  her  work. 

The   other   is   Rin-Tin-Tin. 

The  famous  dog  star  is  now  trouping  the 
country  and  he  and  his  master  draw  down 
$1,250    a    week. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE  112  ] 


The  camera  moves  into  the  department  store!    Here  it's  shown  taking  a 

ride  on  the  escalator  from  Women's  Doodads,  on  the  second  floor,  to 

Gent's  Thingumbobs,  on  the  third.     Director  William  Wellman,  to  the 

right  of  the  camera,  is  filming  a  scene  for  "The  Public  Enemy" 


Photoplay  Macazin]    ros  April,  1931 


i  i  i 


New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  the 


of 
the 


Photoplay 


"Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  represents  the  very  fin- 
est collection  of  beautiful  art  portraits  of  screen 
celebrities    ever   assembled    under    one    cover. 

250  Reproductions  in  Rotogravure  of  the  Stars,  and  the 
tacts  you  want  to  know  about  them 

DO  YOU  KNOW? 


Which  feminine  Man  have  married  millionaire! — 
which 

The  col  Ibert'l  hair? 

The  name  of  the  picture  that  made  Clata  Bow? 

How  much  Lofetta  Young  •-> 

Whore  Chevalier  was  during  the  WorlJ  War? 

That  Raqucl  Torres'  type  is  unique  on  the  screen? 

What  occupation  encages  Rolvrt   Montgomery's 

leisure  hours? 

in  Laurel  came  to  America  as  understudy 

to  Charlie  Chaplin  in  a  stage  skit? 
Who  was  once  engaged  to  the  grandson'  of  the 

Kaiser? 
The  name  of  Irene  Rich's  husband? 


Why  \v  actor? 

Which  dramatic  Svhcxil  Buddy  Rogers  attended? 

Cody? 
What  star  weighs  eJBCtly  one  hundred  pounds? 
How  many  times  Alma  Ruben*  has  been  married? 
How  the  talkies  gave  John  Bold  his  big  chance? 
Where  Bene  1 1  orn? 

How  old  is  Mane  Dm 
Whether  Jean  Id  has  ever  married? 

I  his  start? 
Gilbert  Roland's  natie 

Which  fair-haired  star  I  by  her  father? 

That  Buster  baton  was  Iwrn  in  a  tent? 

The  answers  to  these — and  hundreds  of  other  questions — just 
the  information  that  you  and  your  friends  want  can  he  found  in 
"Stirs  of  the  Photoplay." 

Sire  ot  "Stars  of  the  PhotopI  .   x  10J4   inches;  individual 

portraits,  5)  i  x  *jVi  inches.  A  biographical  sketch  accompanies 
each  portrait. 

You  can  obtain  this  remarkable  book  with  an  18  months  subscrip- 
tion to  Photoplay  Magazine  for  only  $4.00.  "Stars  of  the  Photo- 
play" sells  regularly  for  $1.25;  an  18  months  subscription  to  Photo- 
play $3.75.  The  regular  price  of  the  two  combined  is  $5.00.  You 
will,  therefore,  save  $1  00  by  taking  advantage  of  this  unusual  offer. 
We  recommend  the  combination  offer,  but  if  you  want  only  "Stars 
of  the  Photoplay,"  just  send  $1.25. 

This  combination  offer  is  an  ideal  Birthday  gift.  If  it  is  to  be 
sent  as  a  gift,  insert  the  name  of  the  person  to  whom  you  wish  it 
to  go,  on  the  coupon,  and  your  own  name  on  the  extra  line  at  the 
bottom  provided  for  this  purpose,  also  state  date  of  birthday,  and  a 
proper  notification  will  be  sent  to  the  recipient. 


Photoplay  Magazine  {Stars  of  the  Photoplay) 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave,  Chicago,  111. 


PH.  4-31 


Enclosed  please  find  $ 1]  check     Q  money  order     D  cash,  for  which  acnj  me 

New  De  Luxe  Edition  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  and  enter  my  subscription  to  Photopl  ■ 
tine  lor  IS  months  effective  with  the  next  issue. 

(Special  Rate:  $4.00  U.  S.  and  possessions;   $4.50  Canada;  $5.00  Foreign.) 

□  The  New  De  Lu\    I  -tars  of  the  Photoplay" — now  only  $1.25. 


\ar-ie. 


Srr«t . 


Cir» Sure 

Gi/t  from  {ruime] Birthday. 


I  12 


PnoioPLAY  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


TRY  THIS   PERFECT 
WAVE  SETTING   FLUID 

at  our  expense 

YOUR  name  and  address  on  the  coupon 
will  bring  you,  free,  a  trial  bottle  of 
Wildroot  Wave  Set  .  .  .  remarkable  new 
greaseless  finger-waving  fluid  that  dries  so 
rapidly  and  leaves  your  hair  in  soft,  gl<>>>>y 
waves.  Leaves  no  residue.  Does  not  make 
hair  gummy  or  sticky.  Beneficial  to  hair. 

New  low  prices. . .  35c  and  60c  (Formerly 
50c  and  51.00)  at  drug  stores,  department 
stores,  hairdressers.  Ask  for  Wiidroot  Wave 
Set  by  name.  Beware  of  imitations. 

WILDROOT 
WAVE     SET 

Coupon  brings  FREE  SAMPLE 

THE  WILDROOT  COMPANY,  Inc., 

Dcpt.  P-4,  Buffalo,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  mc  free  sample  Wildroot  WnveSet. 

Also  a  sample  of  your  new  Liquid  Cleansing  Cream. 


A  Jura  J- 


E  YsXE  B 


Patent 
Pending 


Your  hashes 

any  length  or  thickness 
in  JO  minutes 

The  magic  of  Ey-teb  lashes  added  to  your 
own — cannot  be  detected  from  natural 
lashes  even  under  the  magnifying  glass  test 
— simple  to  apply.  Not  affected  by  water 
or  cleansing  agents — one  application  lasts 
weeks — cannot  injure  your  eyes  or  own 
lashes — nothing  like  them  before. 

Send  this  advertisement  with  your  name 
and  address  and  $1  for  special  trial  si:e 
(several  applications),  post-paid.  State 
brown  or  black. 

Take  this  quick  step  to  beauty  today! 
Ey-Teb,       Depl.  A.       275  W.  23rd  Si.,      New  York  City 


No  More  Foot  Pain 

Amazing  relief  for  you.  Stops  hum  inc.  arh- 
inc.  tender,  swollen,  calloused,  torturing 
feet.  Foot  troubles  mastered  In  mar\ . 
CAL-o-cide.  Wear  shoes  you  like.  One 
application  works  wonders.  At  til  druggists, 
35r.  Send  postcard  /or  /ne  Booklet  "Care  of 

/■'<•.'." 

MEDCO  CO.,  Dept.  L-4,  Dayton,  Ohio 


Calocide  FOOT  REMEDY 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 


|  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE   110  ] 


And  Lina  Basquette  has  been  singing  in  a 
cafe  at  Miami.  It's  reported  that  she  and  ex- 
husband  Peverel  Marley  are  about  to  kiss  and 
make  it  all  up. 

PAULINE  STARKE  is  recovering 
from  a  serious  nervous  break- 
down which  sent  her  to  a  California 
sanitarium  for  over  a  month. 

Pauline,  the  wife  of  Jack  White, 
comedy  producer,  hasn't  been  seen 
in  pictures  lately. 

POLLY  MORAN  was  standing  by  the  studio 
gate,  her  bright  new  teeth  which  have  re- 
placed the  old  crooked  ones  in  the  front  of  her 
mouth,  glistening. 

"Say,  do  you  want  to  see  Polly  Moran's 
double?  "  one  passer-by  asked  another.  "  Looks 
exactly  like  her  except  her  teeth  ain't  crooked." 

Then  Polly  knew  that  all  the  pain  had  been 
worth  it.  The  teeth  had  been  perfectly  good, 
by  the  way. 

Polly  just  got  tired  of  seeing  herself  on  the 
screen  with  big  protruders. 


Polly  gave  out  for  publication  that  she  had 
four  taken  out.  We'll  let  you  in  on  a  secret. 
There  were  nine  and  she  went  through  lots  of 
suffering. 

ANN  HARDING  sings  a  song  in 
"East  Lynne." 
And,  she  says,  the  only  reason  she 
consented  to  do  it  was  because  she 
had  occupied  the  dressing-room 
bungalow  originally  built  for  John 
McCormack  on  the  Fox  lot! 

PSTELLE  TAYLOR  returned  from  several 
-'—'months  in  New  York  with  her  seventy-two- 
year-old  grandmother,  the  little  Quaker  lady 
who  raised  Mrs.  Dempsey.  The  trip  was  a  riot 
for  Estelle.  On  the  first  night,  she  opened 
grandmother's  bag  and  found  one  nightgown, 
one  set  of  dominoes  and  eleven  boxes  of  pills. 

Estelle  was  worried  about  the  rich  food 
grandma  was  eating  and  remonstrated  at  hot 
cakes,  sausage,  fatty  meats,  etc.,  which  were 
always  followed  by  three  dyspepsia  pills. 

"I've  lived  seventy-two  years  and  I  guess 


Underwood  and  Underwood 


They're  off!  The  honeymoon  pair,  Charles  Farrell  and  Virginia  Valli, 
snapped  outside  the  door  of  their  cabin  on  board  the  S.  S.  Augustus,  just 
before  the  liner  churned  away  for  Italy.  "We're  not  going  to  smart 
places  or  do  the  conventional  sight-seeing,"  said  the  happy  groom. 
"We're  just  going  to  get  a  modest  car  and  go  places  having  a  good  time." 
The  honeymoon,  hope  Charlie  and  Virginia,  will  last  three  months 


Photopi  w  m  m.a/im   i  ok  Aran 


i  i  J 


I  ibould  know  w h;it  to  cat  by  this  time, 
tin-  aii 

\\ Inn  Estelle  noted  for  picturei  .it  th>   I 
lea  station,  grandma  noticed  th.it  all  the 
ladies'  ha  I  •  sal  will  bat  k  on  the  head,  exr* 
tin-  forehead,  according  to  the  latest  fashion 
She  pushed  hers  high      Doi    that  show  enough 
of  d  ked  tin-  photograph 

Her  only  i     unenl  when  real  hing  the  Demp 
mansion  on  fashionable  Los  I  elii  Avenue 
was:  "You  li\  i-  tiMi  t.ir  in  the  country,  grand 
hter.    I  like  to  In-  close  i<<  tlu 
tement. " 

Jl  oiu-  of  Hollywood's  little  accidents  that 
turned  out  to  In-  to  everybody's  advantage. 
They  were  shooting  tin-  final  scene  foi 
iry  "  w  here  bill  Boj  d,  Jimrm  I 
son  ami  tin-  others  in  tin  cast  are  celebrating 
tin-  armistice  in  Paris  fneir  anna  art  loaded 
with  champagne  bottles.  Hill's  line  is,  "Isn't 
it  ureal  all  the  shooting  anil  noise  is  over?" 

Anil  just  as  he  said  it  lor  the  microphone, 
tin- 1  arbonated  water  in  one  of  the  prop  cham- 

bottles   blew   oil    the  Cap.      '1  he   aCtOTS 
actually  startled  but  the  cameraman 
didn't  stop  grinding  ami  that  is  the  laugh  fade- 
out  of  the  pu  ture 

V\  7A1.K1  D  onto  the  " Strangers  May  Kiss'* 
**  set  the  other  day  to  the  strains  of  a  popular 
played  by  an  orchestra. 
Since  there  is  no  music  in  Norma  Shearer's 
new  picture  we  discovered  that  tlu-  boys  were 
the  same  ones  who  played  for  all  of  Norma's 
silent  pictures.     When  the  talkies  pushed  out 
the  set  musicians,  Norma  said,  "They've  played 
for  me  so  long  anil  made  me  so  happy  that  I'm 
to  keep  them  for  between  shois.  " 
That  was  two  years  ago  anil  she's  still  pay- 
ing the  same  hoys  from  her  own  salary. 

THERE'S  a  midget  who  has  dis- 
covered  a   new  gag   on    Holly- 
wood Boulevard. 

Out  of  work,  he  peddles  apples. 
They're  crabapples. 

CLISSA  LAND!  hail  to  break  a  mirror  in 
*-•" Body  and  Soul. "  SLe  hesitated.  Director 
AUred  Santell  said,  "We'll  break  six  mirror-   I 

won't  ask  anyone  to  do  what  I  wouldn't  do 
If. " 

Charles  Farrcll,  Donald  Dillaway.  Humphrey 
rt,  Dell  I'ructt  'secretary  to  Santell)  and 
urector  broke  six  separate  mirrors. 

A  tew  days  later.  Charlie  Farrcll's  mother 
!  away  after  only  a  few  hours  of  illness. 

Anil  it  was  only  the  day  after  the  breakage 
that  Al  Santell  sat  in  his  car  at  Malibu  Beach 
with  his  rare  first  editions  and  collection  of  un- 
usual salt  and  pepper  shakers  huddled  high 
about  him  waiting  to  see  it  his  house  would  burn 
in  the  big  Malibu  fire.  Louise  Fazcnda's,  sepa- 
rated from  Santell's  only  by  Karl  Dane's  place, 
was  blazing.  Santell's  was  saved.  Now  he- 
wonders  whether  the  hot  hours  of  fear  which 
he  put  in  waiting  for  his  home  to  go  took  care 
of  his  ill  luck. 

The  others  admit,  also,  they  are  waiting 
for  the  results  of  the  ill  omen. 

TF  Walter  Fidgeon's  hair  is  gray  in  his  next 
■^picture,  don't  blame  it  to  make-up.  Blame 
Hollywood's  practical  jokers. 

At  eight  o'clock  the  other  morning  he  was 
awakened  to  receive  the  Rolls  Royce  he  had 
ordered.  An  hour  later  the  Packard  people 
called  to  deliver  their  latest  model.  Another 
hour  and  another  make  appeared.  The  climax 
came  at  four  p.  m.  when  the  Elks  club  called 
to  ask  what  time  he  wished  the  orchestra  and 
entertainers  he  had  hired  for  the  evening  to 
report  for  duty. 

The  automobile  companies  were  left  holding 
the  sack  since  Walter  had  put  in  no  orders, 
but  Walter  held  it  for  the  orchestra.  A  woman 
calling  herself  'Mrs.  Pidgeon"  had  ordered  it 
and  Walter,  the  confirmed  bachelor,  had  to 
pay  for  it. 

Which  reminds  us  that  the  same  trick  was 
played  on  Greta  Garbo  recently.     Only  the 


I  use  Kleenex 

and  know  my  complexion's  safe9 


Why  cold  cream  should  alwayi 
be   removed    with    Kleenex   .  . 
a   beauty   talk   with   one  of  the 
lovelic-t  actresses  of  the  screen. 

SUCCESSFUL  beauty  culture  inevi- 
tably must  start  with  supcr-ckan- 
liness.  Yet  many  women  fail  in  this — 
their  first  and  greatest  duty  to  their 
complexions  —  in  the  very  cleansing 
process!  They  attempt  to  remove  both 
cleansing  cream  and  dirt 
with  a  greasy,  bacteria- 
laden  "cold  cream  cloth'' 
or  a  half-soilct),  unabsor- 
bent  towel.  And  then 
wonder  why  blackheads 
threaten  .  .  .  why  pores 
grow  large  and  relaxed. 

Beautiful  women  of  the 
stajge  and  screen  have  dis- 


"Occasionally  I  see  pirls 
invite  skin  trouble  b\  i^'- 
norin<z  recognized  meth- 
ods. This  has  al\>.i\~ 
seemed  ab-urd  to  me. 
Whea  there's  one  fight 
way.  why  take  chance*."' 
I  use  Kleenex,  and  know 
By    complexion's  safe.*" 

M  MM  \N    N1XOH 


covered  that  nothing  cleans  like  Kleenex. 
Kleenex  . . .  the  delicate,  powerfully  absor- 
bent tissues  that  attract  dirt  like  a  magnet. 
One  of  the  loveliest  of  famous  Kleenex 
users  is  Marian  Nixon  Miss  Nixon  un- 
derstands the  importance  of  cleansing. 
"I  shouldn't  feel  my  face  was  clean  un- 
less I  used  Kleenex  to  re- 
move the  cleansing  cream," 
she  says. 

"Why  take  chances  with 
half-clean  towels  and  cold 
cream  cloths?  These  meth- 
ods are  inefficient  and  un- 
sanitary, often  leaving  a 
residue  of  powder  and  fine 
dirt  in  the  pores." 

Ask  for  Kleenex  at  any  drug,  dry  goods 
or  department  store.  It  comes  in  three 
sizes  —  25  cents,  50  cents  and  $1.00. 
Prices  are  the  same  in  Canada. 


KLEENEX  COMPANY.  Like  Michigan  Building. 
Chicago,  111.  Please  send  a  free  supply  of  Kleenex 




Pimm  print  Dame  p.* 


Vie  for  Colds  —  in  Place  of "Hancikcnhufs 
KUenex  prmnti  ctnstant  ulf-inftann  fnm  gtrm- 
filltd  bandktrcbitfs.    It  a  uud  ana,  tin  discarded. 


S:rti:_ 


City. 


_StaU_ 


In  Canada,  addms:  330  Bay  Slretl.  Toronto.  Oml.         PH  <. 


"4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


Now!  Make  Up  Only 
Once  A  Day 

— Instead  of  Every  Hour! 


A  New  Idea  from  Paris  that  Takes 

the  Bother    Out   of  Make-up. 

No   Caking.    No   Drying.    No 

Unsightly  "Lipstick  Line" 

A  WAY  lias  been  found  that  not  only  gives 
/  \  a  perfect  lip  make-up  quicker  and 
X  Y.  easier  than  any  way  known  before, 
but  that  HOLDS  perfectly  all  day  long.  In- 
stead of  making  up  every  hour,  vou  make  up 
only  once  or  twice  a  day! 

It's  a  French  idea,  of  course.  And  in  both 
France  and  America  it  is  rapidly  changing 
present  ways  of  make-up. 

The  creation  of  Louis  Philippe,  tempera- 
mental colourist,  whom  all  of  Paris  follows 
in  the  art  of  make-up,  it  banishes  all  smear- 
ing, all  caking  and  drying  and  ends  completely 
the  unsightly  "lipstick  line"  most  women 
complain  of  a  few  minutes  after  making  up. 

WHAT  IT  IS 

It  is  called  Angelas  Rouge  Incur not  and 
comes  as  probably  the  nearest  thing  to  a 
permanent   make-up   yet   discovered.    It   is 


Louis  Philippe,  temperamental  French  colourist.  who 

has  made  make-up  an  art — and  about  whom  all  Paris  is 

talking.  Shou-n  here  with  one  of  his  famous  clients,  Hope 

Hampton,  beautiful  stage  and  screen  star. 


You  use  it  on  your  cheeks,  too — just  a  touch  with  the 

finger-tips — and  thus  have  the  color  of  your  cheeks 

blend  perfectly  with  the  color  of  your  lips. 


different  from  any  American  rouge  you 
have  ever  seen,  though  its  form  is  the  same. 

You  can  use  it,  too,  on  both  lips  and 
cheeks.  And  thus  gain  a  color  harmony 
that's  amazing  in  contrast  to  using  sepa- 
rate lipstick  and  rouge — both,  invariably, 
of  different  color.  (Note  picture  above.) 
Thus  you  gain  the  perfect  Parisian  make- 
up of  today.  And — it  lasts  for  hours. 
No  more  annoyance  of  constant  making 
up.  No  uneven  make-up.  No  caking,  no 
smearing — and  so  exquisitely  smooth  that 
you  cannot  even  feel  it. 

COMES  IN  TWO  FORMS 

All  department  and  drug  stores  have  it 
now  under  the  name  of  Angelas  Rouge  In- 
carnal  in  two  forms:  Ordinary  lipstick 
form,  and  in  the  charming  "Little  Red 
Box."  Most  women  prefer  the  box.  9 
different  colors.  Same  price  as  American 
rouges. 

Angelus 

Rouge  lncarnat 

Louis  Philippe,  Inc. 


All  Standard  Makes 

Lowret  Pri.-on  end  realeat  Irrmi 
00  World's   beet  meiee-Undrr- 
wood.    Remington,     Roral.     etc. 
Save)    ovtr    '  3    Mfr'e.   original 
orlc*.  Yourcb    i-e-ent     nlOHeTS- 
Triel        EASIEST    TERMS    EVER 
OFFERED-PAT  ONLY  12c  A  DAY.    All 
standard  eixe—  lata  mcdela.  Fu'lf  Guaranteed. 
Alio  Portables  at  rod u cod  prices 

Raanrf  Na  Mntiav— ''  Fr"  Catalog  full*  deecrlbln* 

mnn  ng  money      »howin»  actual  photoarapha  of i__ 

beautiful  machine  In  foil  colore  telle  of  oar  refinisblne:  methods 
making-  eacb  machine  like  new.  Also  telle  of  oor  direct-to-roo, 
serines  and  eaar-parment  plan.  Loweet  Pnree  Dow  offered.  Send 
for  Free  Catalog  at  once,  also  10   dsr  trial  offer.      No    obturation. 

INTERNATIONAL  TYPEWRITER  EXCHANGE 

231  VV.  Monroe)  St.  Department  4 52  Chicago 


■  ant 


DON'T 
HAVE 
GRAY 

HAIR 


It'seasyto  Impart  that  bright, 
shining,    youthful   look   to 
streaky,  age-telling  gray  hair. 
Just  coiubin  Brownatone,  clean, 
odorless  and   harmless.     Also 
splendid  for  toning  down  unnat- 
ural bleached  or  henna  shades. 
'Any  color  from  golden  blonde  to 
jet  black.  Used  by  millions  for  20 
"years.  All  dealers.  50c.  Or  send  10c 
ir  tost  bottle. 

The  Kenton  Phatnual  Co..  Depl.F-12.  BtoxTialon"  Bldj.CoriagloB.Ky. 
Canadian  address:     Windsur,  OnL 


B 


ROWNATONE 

GUARANTEED     HARMLESS 


cars  came  to  the  studio.  The  practical  joker 
had  not  known  her  home  number.  One  ad- 
vantage to  remaining  "mysterious." 

Y\70RD  was  sent  to  Bill  Boyd's  house  that 
W  he  was  wanted  at  Pathe  for  retakes  on 
"  Beyond  Victory. " 

"He  can't  report,"  came  the  answer;  "he's 
got  to  stay  in  bed,  according  to  doctor's  orders. 
Laryngitis. " 

"That's  okeh,"  the  studio  answered.  "We 
just  want  to  make  retakes  where  Bill's  in  a 
hospital  bed. " 

The  doctor  said  it  was  all  right,  so  Boyd, 
laryngitis  and  all,  was  taken  to  the  studio  and 
put  back  into  bed  before  the  camera  for  two 
days'  shooting. 

TTELEN  KAXE  goes  well  with  the  natives 
•*•  -Mn  Honduras. 

Enid  Bennett's  brother,  marooned  on  a  co- 
coanut  plantation  in  that  region,  took  along 
his  trusty  victrola  to  while  away  the  hours. 
The  boys  were  startled  when  they  heard  a 
voice  coming  from  this  strange  device,  but  when 
the  Baby-Talk  Girl's  voice  reaches  them,  they 
do  a  nip-up  and  get  all  excited.  They  don't 
speak  a  word  of  English. 

Maybe  boop-boop-a-doop  means  something 
in  Honduran,  or  whatever  they  speak  down 
there. 

PSTELLE  TAYLOR  is  another  Hollywood 
•'—'poet.  It's  surprising,  how  many  film  ac- 
tresses turn  to  verse  now  and  then.  Here's  one 
of  Estelle's — 

Don't  eulogize  my  corpse 

And  buy  me  roses 

And  weep 

And  sniffle 

And  get  red  noses. 

For  I  will  be  there 

With  my  sense  of  humor 

And  stand  by  your  side 

And  laugh  at  the  rumor 

I'm  dead. 


Brickbats  c#Bouquets 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  10  ] 

Boles  or  Novarro? 

In  my  opinion  Ramon  Xovarro  is  the  only 
star  in  pictures  who  could  take  Rudolph  Val- 
entino's place. 

Agnes  Peterson, 
Pasadena,  Calif. 

Why  do  critics  rave  about  Ramon  Xovarro 
all  the  time?  Why  not  boost  a  really  good 
singer  and  actor,  a  second  Valentino — John 
Boles?  He  has  the  best  singing  voice  on  the 
screen. 

Agnes  Gearhart, 

Toledo,  Ohio 

John  Boles  should  go  to  dramatic  school  be- 
cause, while  I'm  willing  to  admit  that  he's 
handsome  and  iias  a  good  voice,  he's  nothing 
but  a  collar  ad  which  after  half  a  reel  gets  to 
be  mildly  boring  to  say  the  least. 

S.  Bosweix, 
Baltimore,  Md. 

Million  Dollar  Productions 

Grand  finales!    Dazzling  costumes!    Splen- 
dor! Magnificence!  I  marvel  that  the  producers 
don't  realize  that  we  would  exchange  all  this 
for  just  a  bit  of  human  pathos — realism — heart  j 
interest. 

A  picture  is  built  upon  the  emotion  it  arouses, 
and  these  "million-dollar"  productions  only 
leave  us  awed,  with  a  feeling  of  unreality. 

M.  Barron.         i 
Petaluma.  Calif. 


Pbotopi  w  m  umzzmi   i  oa   inn  .  1     1 


i  i 


l'ok«-»  and   Pn-ir- 

Brickbats: 

I  he  .u  ting  of  Rttdy  Yallee 

[nepl  mo\  ic  til 

Strang,  nlent  beraea  with  <>nr  word, "Yeah'" 

Theme  tongi 

Inebriated  w  I 

All  dancing,  aB-nnging  iquawkie*. 

Bouquets: 
Bored  uprtuion  of  Ronald  Cobnut. 
Quiet  resignation  of  Gtrbo  in  "Ron  u 
ii  fit  to-be-kissed  loveliness oi  Lillian 
Roth. 
William  Powell's  polish. 
Janet  Gaynor's  virginal  cristfulness. 
Sound  t.irti«>ns. 

An  rut  k  M  \khi  i  . 
Brigham  City,  Utah 

01<l  l.o\  <••*  ami   Nc\* 

Th>   i  who  starred  in  pictures  around 

1923  and  192-1  don'l  appeal  much  to  the  thea- 

il  today.    We  don't  want  them 
must  make  way  for  the  new  and  bett* 

Row  1 1  M    Foxd, 
Iowa  City,  Iow:i 

I  think  it's  a  downright  shame  the  way  t In- 
old  stars  who  arc  well-known  to  the  movie 
public  have  to  give  way  before  the  new  ones 
It'^  not  that  the  new  ones  are  any  better;  it's 
only  an  everlasting  desire  on  the  part  of  the 
producers  to  introduce  new  fai 

Ft. oki  \(  i:  London, 

Philadelphia,  I'enna. 

Jack  Gilbert 

What  a  come-back  Jack  Gilbert  has  made  in 
"  Way  for  a  Sailor.  " 

Gone  is  the  sentimental  twaddle,  and  our 
Jack  emerges  a  regular  he-man,  and  does  it  to 
perfection. 

Betty  R.  Strachw, 
Niagara  Falls,  X.  Y. 

Jack  Gilbert  died  a  pretty  awful  death  in 
'Way  for  a  Sailor."  I  think  M-G-M  have 
carried  their  little  joke  too  far. 

Bernicb:  GtTSTATSON, 
Norfolk,  Ncbr. 

Whose  Voice? 

Constance  Bennett  has  the  clearest,  sweetest 
and  best  voice  I  have  heard  in  any  talkie. 

Mas.  Jdm  s, 
Gadsden,  Ala. 

Kay  Francis  has  tin-  best  female  voice  on 
the  screen.  After  hearing  her,  I  never  want 
to  see  another  silent  picture. 

Doris  Rosf.nuerg, 
Cohasset,  Mass. 

Just  What  You  Think 

The  Glorification  of  the  American  Girl  is 
now  passe. 

It  has  become  the  Glorification  of  the  Amer- 
ican Gangster. 

What  must  foreign  nations  think  of  the 
United  States? 

Ii>\  McGee, 
Canton,  Ohio 

Cimarron! 

"Cimarron!"  What  a  picture!  What  a 
cast!    What  a  director! 

Except  for  one  little  fault  the  four  of  us 
who  went  to  see  this  picture  think  it  the  finest 
thing  we've  seen. 

We  had  all  read  the  book  and  felt  that  the 
last  scene — the  statue  of  the  pioneer- — should 
have  had  a  close-up  of  the  face  to  make  it  very 


kjtIc 


More  Kjlamour  added 

to  your  fingertips 

by  this  new  Nail  Make-up 


/  vcels  in  brilliance,  say 

women  in  8  fashion  centers 

"New  way  to  Fascinate,  "  writes 

Beauty  Editor  in  Budapest 

IN  all  tin-  fashion  centers  'if  the  world 
beautiful  women  are  making  men's 
hearts  l><  ir  faster  .  .  .  with  the  alluring 
brilliance  of  Cutex  Liquid  Polish. 

Guthy  Boske,  well-known  Beauty  Edi- 
tor in  cosmopolitan  Budapest,  writes: 
"Every  woman  of  fascination  recogm/.es 
in  this  gleaming  new  nail  make-up  a  way 
to  make  her  hands  more  fascinating, 
surer  of  their  effect. 

"Cutex  Liquid  Polish  never  fails  you," 
she  says.  "It  is  the  result  of  16  years  of 
specializing  in  manicure  preparations 
only.  Its  brilliant  lustre  is  unmatched 
and  lasts  for  days.  It  never  makes  your 
fingers  unsighth-  by  cracking  or  peeling 
or  discoloring.  It  goes  on  so  simply,  so 
smoothly,  and  dries  in  a  moment!" 

This  Polish  contains  no  unnecessary 
perfume  to  make  it  more  expensive,  to 
conflict  with  your  own  favorite  scent,  or 
to  dim  its  lustre   .   .   .   and  there  is  a 


range  of  six  smart  shades  to  choose  from. 

Just  as  fastidious  women  all  over  the 
world  do,  you,  too,  can  keep  jour  nails 
flawless,  appealing.  Follow  the  direc- 
tions in  the  little  booklet  enclosed  with 
every  Cutex  preparation. 

Just  this  easy  manicure  once  a  week 
and  a  few  minutes'  attention  each  day 
to  cleanse  and  push  back  the  cuticle  .  .  . 
your  nails  will  always  be  romantically 
lovely!  Every  ne%v  aid  for  beautifying 
the  nails  has  started  with  Cutex. 
Northa-;  Warren,  New  York,  London-,  Paris 


Put  your  Nail  Polish  to  this  Test: 
Does  it  .  .  . 

dry  in  30  seconds? 

never  crack,  peel,  or  discolor? 

last  a  whole  week? 

sparkle  always  with  smart  lustre? 

come  in  sturdy  bottles,  easy  to 


open; 


Cutex  Manicure  Preparations  are  only 
3St  each  .  .  .  Liquid  Polish  and  Polish 
Remover,  together  .  .  .  50c. 


I  enclose  i:<  for  the  Cutex  Manicure  Set  containing' 
sufficient  preparations  for  six  complete  manicures. 
(in  Canada,  address  Post  Office  Box  ZJ20.  Montreal.) 

N        ham  Warren,  Dept.  '  Q-4 
191  Hudson  Street New  York,  N.  Y. 


Cu  tex  L  iq  u  id  Po  lish  ONLY  35* 

Tips    the    fingers    with    romance 


n6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


A  NEW  KIND  of 
SOFT   BEAUTY 

Good  news!  Here  is  a  night  cream 
which  is  absorbed  by  the  skin  almost 
as  soon  as  applied.  Instead  of  staying 
on  the  surface  of  the  skin, as  ordinary  | 
night  creams  do,  Dr.  Charles  Flesh 
Food  penetrates  deep  into  the  cells 
below  the  surface  —  the  cells  which 
nourish  and  support  the  surface-tis- 
sues. It  revitalizes  these  basic  cells 
while  you  sleep;  thus  wrinkles  fade 
away  and  the  complexion  assumes  a 
youthful  firmness,  smoothness  and 
translucency.  A  single  application 
makes  a  noticeable  difference.  Why  be 
satisfied  with  a  night  cream  that  does 
less?  Use  it  also  on  chapped  hands,  I 
or  where  the  skin  is  roughened. 

SOc  and  81.00  the  Jar 

Dr.Charles 

FLESH  FOOD    | 

I,1  I  I  I,1  I,1    For  free  sample  jar  send  this  coupon  : 
W}  JAJL  Jli    to  Dr.  Charles  Flesh  Food  Co.,  Dept.l 

P.  D.  220-36th  St.,  B  'klyn,  N.  Y. 


Specially  posed  by  Ginger  Rogers 
Paramount  Pictures  Star 


tss  u  =w  4  m: 


fe(«I3»C*XiliJM4 


•MM  »  M I 


The 
Original 


clear  that  it  was  a  statue  of  Yancey  Cravat. 
E.  H.  Booth,  Jr., 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

Illicit 

That  picture  "Illicit"  is  going  to  do  a  lot  of 
people  a  lot  of  good.  Every  married  couple 
should  see  it. 

I  heard  two  women  seated  next  to  me  in  the 
theater  discussing  it  after  the  picture  was 
over. 

They  were  telling  of  married  friends  of 
theirs. 

One  said,  "I'm  going  to  make  George  and 
Mary  see  this.  It  will  open  their  eyes  and 
probably  patch  up  their  troubles. " 

Frederic  Bascomb, 
Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 

I  enjoyed  "  Illicit. "  It  is  a  great  picture  and 
I'm  strong  for  Barbara  Stanwyck. 

But,  tell  me,  do  ladies  of  the  screen  really 
wear  these  skin-tight  nighties  such  as  Miss 
Stanwyck  wore  ? 

I  had  a  suspicion  there  was  a  girdle 
under  it. 

Mary  Atkins, 
Harrisburg,  Penna. 

Your  Answer  Is  in  This  Issue 

Do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that  lion  really 
pounced  on  Edwina  Booth  in  "Trader 
Horn"? 

And  how  under  the  African  sun  could  that 
girl  live  in  that  country  and  be  whiter  than 
whitewash? 

I'm  just  asking.  I've  got  my  money's  worth 
out  of  the  picture  and  I'm  not  complain- 
ing. 

It's  a  great  picture. 

Ivan  Simpson, 
Sioux  Falls,  Iowa 

Laughs  Kill  Laughs 

"  Charley's  Aunt"  was  a  distinct  disappoint- 
ment to  me  for  the  simple  reason  that  the 
laughter  of  the  audience  completely  drowned 
out  the  dialogue. 

I  believe  that  this  is  the  greatest  drawback 
of  the  talkies. 

Marthe  Wittekixd, 

Columbus,  Ohio 

Scandal  Sheet 

How  much  more  dramatic  it  would  have 
been  if  they'd  ended  "Scandal  Sheet"  after 
Bancroft  had  killed  Brook. 

The  newspaper  background  was  very  con- 
vincing but  Mr.  Bancroft's  too-relentless  char- 
acterization of  the  managing  editor  made  us 
hardly  blame  Kay  Francis,  his  wife,  for  rushing 
into  the  arms  of  the  infinitely  more  charming 
Clive  Brook. 

Mrs.  Henrietta  Crile, 
Larchmont,  X.  Y. 

Will  Silents  Return? 

There  is  no  doubt  the  day  will  dawn  when 
the  public  will  want  a  silent  picture  for  desert 
Why  should  such  excellent  stars  as  Chaplin, 
John  Gilbert  and  Jannings — true  artists  in  pan- 
tomime— not  still  be  great? 

You'll  never  find  another  lover  like  Gilbert- 
Can  he  help  it  that  "love"  is  a  silent  language 
and  the  talkies  are  asking  of  him  the  impossible? 
Ellen  Koxgshaxc. 
Detroit,  Mich. 

We  Thank  You 

Quite  some  time  ago  there  appeared  on  your 
pages  a  Brickbat  bewailing  the  erroneous  be- 
lief that  Photoplay  had  spoiled  theappearance 
of  one  of  her  issues  by  printing  on  the  cover, 
"The  Most  Imitated  Magazine  in  the  World." 
But  now  I  cannot  help  but  notice  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  words  on  said  cover. 

Ironically,  I  offer  another — and  perhaps  bet- 


PHOTOPl  11    M  \..\/im     i  OB    Ai'wii 


I  I  7 


trr     pel  pi 
Equalled.  ' 


'Often  Imit.it.-.!.  Bui  ' 

lin  i  I 

bwood,  N.  J 


Let  -  B«tc  Plot* 

Producer!  ibould  cul  out  i' ■  ■  one 

plot  tor  ■  down  different  picture* 

\\  ■   ii    |       ii  \. 
S    N 

Well,  IT-  Out! 

We,  in  l'ol.m.l.  admin  powerful  American 
film  production,  but  we  ue  tired  of  long  and 
d.iiu  i-  films. 

rhere  is  too  much  syncopation,  rhythm, 

theme  song  and  noise.     Such  a  tone  film  as 

Parade"  our  can  hear  ten  times  without 

getting  .i  headache,  but  this  day's  jazxmania 

ideed  too  tiresome. 

\  .il  \  l-'i:  UOCOVSK  V, 

Poland 

Ami  Why,  Pray? 

keep  young  Fairbanks  out  of  loi 
J.  S.' 
Montreal,  Can  id  i 

Too  Many  Gunmen! 

For  a  period  of  time  there  were  complaints 

galore  about  musical  comedy  talkies;  and  now 

that    they   are  fewer  and   better,   along  come 

pictures. 

Another   crusade    will    have   to   be   started 

OSt  these. 

Mrs.  Jtji  bs  S.  Lake. 

New  Orleans,  La. 

Yep!  It's  a  Mysterj 

It  puzzles  me  how  a  ninety  piece  orchestra 
crowds  in  to  help  the  hero  and  heroine  with 
their  sharps  and  tlats  in  the  big  hit  number,  | 
whether   they   be  far  out  on  burning  desert  J 
sands,    high    above    the    clouds    or    driving 
through  a  rainstorm. 
How  come? 

A i.  Schmidt, 
Memphis,  Tenn. 

Alas! 

I  would  have  gone  to  see  Norma  Talmadge 
in  a  silent  picture  under  any  circumstances, 
but  in  "Du  Harry"  her  acting  was  so  stilted  and 
unnatural  and  her  voice  so  harsh  and  un- 
cultivated, I  do  not  care  to  ever  see  her  again. 
E.  EL  Basson, 
Brooklyn,  \.  V. 

She  Is   Good-looking 

I'm  tired  of  hearing  Marie  Dressier  called 
homely  and  ugly!  Just  because  she  can 
stretch  her  jaw  like  a  rubber  for  our  amuse- 
ment and  because  she  can  play  wonderful 
character  parts  is  no  sign  that  she  isn't  nice 
looking  in  private  life. 

Mrs.  Jakes  \V.  Mitchell, 

M.irtin's  Ferry,  Ohio 

Welcome.   Mickej  ! 

After  many  years  of  forced  endurance  of 
the  pie-throwing  comedies,  the  Mickey  Mouse 
cartoons  come  as  a  welcome  relief. 

Intelligent  movie-goers  are  greatly  impressed 
by  the  genius,  thought  and  patient  work  which 
have  been  combined  to  make  these  the  most 
entertaining  comedies  ever  shown 

Margaret  Lettice, 
Evansville,  I  ml. 

What?   Even   Now? 

Maybe  I'm  old-fashioned,  but  I  would  rather 
See  America's  Sweetheart,   Mary  Pickford,  as 


% 


1 


MAKE  YOLK   MOUTH 
BEAUTIFUL 

f'h  firing  DOUBLE  M  I  N  T  is  the  new  way. 
Beaut)  of  lip-  and  flu-di  of  smile  will  attract  the  man  of  your 
dreams.  Thus  your  happiness  and  security  may  actually  de- 
pend on  your  possession  of  a  fascinating  mouth.  Asev 
keeps  your  body  lithe  and  young,  so  it  will  help  keep  your 
delicate  facial  muscles  supple  and  attractive.  Mother  Nature's 
own  perfect  and  natural  means  of  forming  lovely  lips  and  of 
giving  you  gleaming  teeth  is  through  the  chewing 
exercise  of  masticating  your  food.  Bi 
food  is  so  soft  the  daily  chewing 
has  become  a  very  necessary  factor  ir 


iurming  mveiy  lips  anu  ui 
jugh  the  chewing        A^ 
But  since  modern    ^B^ 

of  DOUBLE  MINT  V 

or  in  modern  life,        A 


iS 


Why 
should 


GRAY 
HAIR 

make  you  older 
than  you  are? 

I  could  save  countless  women 
many  a  heartache  if  they  would 
send  for  my  FREE  SINGLE 
LOCK  TEST  PACKAGE. 

Gray  hair  is  so  unnecessary.  In  over  30 
years  I  have  shown  millions  of  women 
the  way  to  ever-youthful  hair.  You  need 
no  experience.  Merely  comb  clear,  color- 
less liquid  through  your  hair.  Youthful 
color  will  come  —  color  thrt  matches 
perfectly  your  own  hair  whether  it  be 
black,  brown,  auburn  or  blonde.  Results 
are  natural-looking — nothing  artificial. 
Your  hair  stays  soft  and  lustrous — waves 
or  curls  easily.  You  can  wash  it  without 
fear  of  fading.  No  danger  of  rubbing  off 
on  hat-linings  or  linen. 

3,000,000  women  gained  youthful 
hair  by  making  this  sensible  test 
I  want  to  show  you,  too.  You  can 
make  the  test  at  home  without  risk  or 
expense  on  a  single  lock  snipped  from 
your  hair.  I  only  ask  you 
to  see  for  yourself.  Your 
druggist  can  supply 
the  full-sized  bottle 
on   money-back 
guarantee  .  .  .  But 
why  not  send  for 
Free  Complete  Test 
Package  now  ? 

Famous  Single 

Lock  Test  Package 

FREE 

MAIL  COUPON 

MARY    T.   GOLDMAN 

OVER  TEN  MILLION   BOTTLES   SOLD 
ttt-fOR  I  III  I    TEST  PACKAGETTT-: 


MARY  T.  GOLDMAN. 

2451  Goldman  Bldg.,  St.  Paul,  Mian. 

Name 


Street 

City State 

V    CHECK  COLOR  OF  HAIR    • 
□  BLACK  D  DARK  BROWN 

D  MEDIUM  BROWN  D  LIGHT  BROWN 

D  DARK  RED        O  LIGHT  RED        D  BLONDE 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

the  child  who  captivated  our  hearts  with  her 
pranks  and  hardships  than  in  the  rule  of  a  silly 
French  llapper  in  "Kiki." 

Dorotha  Connor, 

Kane,  Penna. 

A  Vote  for  France 

Arc  all  French  girls  like  Fifi? 
Let's  go   to   France,   but  stay  away  from 
Sweden.  Iuogeke  Parsons, 

Buffalo,  Okla. 

Betty  Is  All  H.  and  B. 

One  gets  all  "hot  and  bothered"  about 
movies. 

I'm  hot  because  there  is  a  gag  that  never 
fails  newspaper  columnists  lacking  filler  for 
their  stick — 

"The  mentality  of  the  average  movie 
audience  is  that  of  a  nine-year  old!" 

I'm  bothered  because  those  columnists  sup- 
pose an  audience  likes  the  trash  resignedly  sat 
through  just  because  hard-earned  money  has 
been  paid  to  see  a  show. 

Betty  Voorhees, 
Dana  Point,  Orange  Co.,  Calif. 

Are  You  Shv?     Bead  This 


A  man  I  know  of  owes  a  great  deal  to  the 
movies.  He  is  very  self-conscious  and  hard  to 
talk  to.  However,  when  the  "movies"  are  the 
subject  of  conversation  he  is  immediately  at 
ease. 

He  forgets  his  shyness  and  talks  very  well 
and  very  interestingly. 

Marion  H.  DeVergnies, 
Haddon  Heights,  X.  J. 

Nosegays  for  Fred 

Xot  many  of  us  have  suave  Colmans  and 
sophisticated  Brooks  for  brothers  or  husbands, 
but  who  of  us  does  not  have  a  Fredric  March 
in  the  family? 

His  portrayal  of  Paul  in  "Laughter"  was  so 
true,  so  human,  he  won  my  whole-hearted 
admiration. 

Hats  off  to  Fredric  March  for  a  perfect 
performance ! 

Mrs.  J.  Y.  Blake, 
St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

We  Blush— And  Print  It 

Photoplay  is  taking  its  place  among  the 
really  smart  magazines  in  America;  in  fact,  the 
whole  world. 

This  stark  but  happy  fact  is  evidenced  in 
the  neatness  with  which  some  of  its  writers 
are  putting  the  ha-ha  on  Hollywood  and  some 
of  its  hams. 

The  most  clever  article  in  the  November 
issue  is  by  Bogart  Rogers,  entitled  "Bogy  Man 
Turns  Actor."  It  is  simply  swell!  The  panner 
Jim  Tully  gets  panned  and  plenty;  and  smartly 
and  satirically! 

Fine  magazine,  this  Photoplay. 

Alan  E.  Phillips, 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

Too  Many  Carbon  Copies 

Repetition  is  not  "the  spice  of  life."  We 
fans  are  becoming  surfeited  and  bored  by  the 
continuous  sameness  of  pictures  we  see  today. 

As  sure  as  life,  death  and  the  income  tax  is 
the  fact  that  if  a  motion  picture  goes  over  big 
with  the  public  there  will  be  multitudinous 
others  of  that  ilk  just  as  soon  as  Hollywood 
can  produce  them. 

GeDelle  B.  Wilson, 

Columbia,  S.  C. 

She  Doesn't  Like  Bemakes 

It's  particularly  annoying  to  expect  to  see 
something  "new  and  different"  and  discover 
that  it's  simply  an  old  silent  picture  one  has 


FRECKLES 

The  Ugly  Handicap 
To  Fair  Complexions 


Now  is  the  Time  to  Get 

Rid  of  Those  Homely, 

Rusty-Brown  Spots 

This  is  a  very  trying  time  for  fair- 
complexioned  women ;  Spring  sun  and 
winds  bring  out  freckles  that  will  stay 
all  summer  unless  removed  now. 
But  fortunately  there  is  also  a  treat- 
ment for  those  unsightly  blemishes 
so  simple  and  reliable  that  no  one 
need  stay  freckled.  A  few  nights' use 
of  Othine-double  strength  will  rid 
your  skin  of  freckles  and  restore  its 
natural  fairness  and  beauty.  It  is  sel- 
dom that  more  than  an  ounce  of  this 
dainty  white  cream  is  needed. 
Be  sure  to  ask  for  Othine-double 
strength  at  any  drug  or  department 
store.  Money  back  if  it  does  not 
fade  out  even  the  worst  freckles  and 
leave  your  complexion  soft,  clear 
and  beautiful. 

Of    HI      NE  STRENGTH 


HERE  is  no  introduction 
which  carries  the  dignity, 
prestige,  or  personality  of 
a  well  -  arranged  business 
card.  A  tab  of  perfect  bus- 
iness cards  will  be  sent  in 
response  to  your  request. 

VEe  JOHN  B.  WIGGINS 
Company 

Established  1857 

1153  Fullerton  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


WIGGINS 

'Peerless  BookJorm 
CARDS 


l'HOlOl-I  AY     M  \(.\/IM      I  01     Al'KII  .     1  1 


scon  I >*-f i >n-  wiih  Hew  i'ii  ii  title  rod 

embelUthed  with  ■  aprmkhng  ol  musk 

DoBonn  \   &  hi  i 

I1!...  Idem  . .  R    I 

TWO  l<Iols  Go   ker-IMunk 

\n.r  wini;  \nn>^  'n'  Andy  in  "Check  .iii.l 
Double  Check"  I'm-  decided  thai  U  thi 

ac  t  I'm  a  writer. 

11.,  <•  plumb  u;.m»i1  on   tin-  air  and 

the  Mi'-  .mil  I  used  to  itop  lighting  long  enough 
en  in  on  them,  but  we'. I  have  been  bettei 
oil  it  we  hadn't  gone  t"  lee  them  became  they 
won't  !«•  the  lame  t<>  ua  again. 

:   where  they  belong,  m  give 
them  "tin-  air"  from  tin-  screen,  ami  oblige 
B  ib  Robinson, 
it    Worth,  Kan. 

She  Likes  l!;i|>i>>  Landings 

I  don't  mind  if  there  is  a  little  sorrow  in  tin- 
stones, hut  I  like  everything  to  turn  out  all 
right  in  the  end. 

\\<ik  I'.  Moors, 
Philadelphia,  Penna 

Be  Serious,    Marie! 

I  mi  "Caught  Short,"  and  while  it  was 
funny,  I  do  think  that  Marie  Dressier  is  too 
tine   an   actress   to  do   low  comedy 

It  seems  cruel  to  me  to  see  her  in  silly 
situations. 

A  person  ahlc  to  put  over  the  part  she  had 
in  "Anna  Christie"  shouldn't  have  to  throw- 
pies  to  get  a  laugh. 

Marian  Griffith, 
Plainfield,  N.  J. 

Hold  the  Line 

The  movies  a  moral  prop!   They  are  to  me. 

\  diet  is  the  only  thing  that  keeps  me  thin. 
But  a  diet  is  like  a  bath.  It  doesn't  do  any 
good  unless  you  keep  it  up. 

Here's  how  the  movies  come  in.    Every  time 
I  am  tempted  by  potatoes,  I  run  to  the  ni  ■ 
The  sight  of  the  slim,  beautiful  stars  is  a  moral 
prop  to  me. 

A  chocolate  Eclair  leaves  me  cold.  After 
looking  at  Joan  Crawford  in  "Our  Blushing 
Brides,"  how  could  I  betray  myself,  by  guzz- 
ling salted  almonds?  I  am  thin  today  and 
the  movies  keep  me  so. 

Hki.f.n-  Lewis, 
Syracuse,  X.  V. 


Swindle,  Swindle 
Little  Star 

[  covriNtKu  from  pacb  47  1 

See  how  he  puts  things  across.  Notice  how  he 
reads  his  lines.  Watch  his  hands,  and  his  feet, 
and  his  face.  If  you  keep  your  wits  about  you, 
you'll  soon  be  a  big  star.  I'll  be  watching  these 
rushes  very  closely." 

A  FTF.R  the  usual  delays  they  went  into  pro- 
•*»-duction  on  the  picture  and  Tommy,  ex- 
perienced in  the  petty  indications  that  mark  the 
atmosphere  of  a  set.  realized  that  he  was  being 
favored.  The  actor  from  the  legitimate  stat;e 
did  not  sense  camera  angles  and  Tommy  real- 
ized after  the  tirst  day  or  two  that  the  director 
was  not  giving  him  helpful  breaks.  Time  and 
again  Tommy  was  upstage  of  the  star;  repeat- 
edly he  found  himself  so  placed  in  the  shot  that 
his  picture  was  full-face,  close-up,  while  the 
camera  was  shooting  over  the  shoulder  of  the 
featured  player.  This,  he  realized,  was  a  most 
amazing  procedure,  indicating  lack  of  e.tperi- 
ence  on  the  part  of  the  legitimate  actor  and  an 
unfriendly  attitude  toward  him  on  the  part  of 
the  director. 


J/er-iOss 

FACE 
POWDER 


Modern  fashion  permits  each  woman  to  be  the  artisan  of  her  own 
beauty.  It  is  the  mode  to  accent  one's  personality  rather  than  to  mould 
one's  self  into  a  preconceived  type.  The  many  fine  nuances  of  color- 
tone  in  Djer-Kiss  makes  it  possible  for  every  woman  to  adopt  the  Djer- 
Kiss  face  powder  shade  that  is  best  suited  to  her  complexion  .  .  .  the 
natural  color  scheme  of  her  hair,  her  eyes,  her  skin.  For  day  and  night 
make-up  the  soft,  soothing,  texture  of  Djer-Kiss  face  powder  achieves 
the  effect  for  which  fashionable  women  strive. 

TH  E    DJER-KISS    ENSEMBLE 


For  bed  linen  and  intimate  apparel  Djer-Kiss 
Sachet.  For  beautifying  the  face,  rouge  ond  lip- 
stick. After  the  both.  Talcum.  And  for  the  final 
touch  of  frogrant  elegance  Djer-Kiss  perfume. 

ALFRED  H.   SMITH  CO.,  Sole  Importers 
New  York   •    Paris  ■    Chicago  •    los  Angeles  •    Montreal 


120 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

They  worked  so  many  nights  that  it  was  a 
week  before  the  three  youngsters  had  an  eve- 
ning together.  Tommy  quickly  noticed  a 
change  in  Danny. 


ZHowto3$athe~ 


Try  this  modern 
luxury  and  beauty- 
treatment  —  FREE 


There  was  a  time  when  a  bath  was  just  a 
bath.  But  there  was  also  a  time  when  even 
to  discuss  the  body  was  considered  improper. 
Now,  dresses  are  designed  without  backs, 
and  bathing  suits  are  made  without  much 
of  anything  at  all — so  that  we  simply  must 
notice  the  bodies  of  others  and  have  them 
notice  ours. 

Nowadays,  therefore,  the  bath  should  be 
more  than  a  tubbing— it  should  be  a  beauty 
treatment.  That  is  why  the  Bathasweet 
bath  has  become  a  habit  with  so  many 
women. 

Bathasweet  not  only  makes  the  bath  as  fra- 
grant as  a  flower  garden,  but  more  important 
sti  1,  it  softens  the  water  so  that  it  cleanses 
the  pores  more  perfectly.  Bathasweet  en- 
ables water  to  dissolve  the  impurities  in  the 
pores  and  to  keep  them  dissolved.  How  well 
it  docs  this  is  indicated  by  the  fact  that  no 
"ring"  remains  around  the  tub  when  Bath- 
asweet is  used.  As  a  consequence,  skin-im- 
perfections  disappear,  and  the  body  takes  on 
that  glowing  smoothness  which  is  the  height 
of  loveliness. 


BATHASWEET 


Try  Bathasweet  at  our  expense.  Send  for  a 
free  sample.  It  will  convince  you  how  im- 
portant Bathasweet  can  be  to  your  appear- 
ance and  how  much  it  adds  to  the  joy  of 
bathing.  At  drug  and  department  stores,  25c, 
50c,  $1  and  $1.50. 


FREE 


A  can  sent  free,  any- 
where in  the  United 
States,  if  you  mail  this  coupon  with 
name  and  address  to  C.  S.  Welch  Co., 
Dept.  P.  D.,  1907  Park  Avenue,  New 
York. 


YOU'RE  not  yourself  tonight,  Danny,"  he 
pointed  out  half-way  through  their  buffet 
dinner.  "What's  up?  Now  that  you're  a  big 
business  man,  I  suppose  weighty  matters  clog 
your  mind." 

Danny  looking  up  suddenly,  frankly  said, 
"I  think  I'm  going  to  lose  my  star  contract." 

"What  do  you  mean?"  Tommy  demanded. 
"Who're  you  going  to  lose?" 

"You,    Danny  returned. 

"Whatever  gave  you  that  idea?"  Tommy 
laughed.  "  Do  you  think  because  I'm  getting  a 
little  successful  I'll  cut  out  your  commission? 
You're  a  fine  friend  to  have!" 

For  a  moment  or  two  Danny  made  no 
answer.  Then,  at  last,  he  said  slowly,  "I  saw 
the  rushes  on  your  picture  today,  Tommy." 

"  Did  you?  How  do  you  like  them?  "  Tommy 
asked  eagerly. 

"  You  do  a  grand  job.  Everybody  says  so. 
That's  going  to  be  a  good  picture,  too." 

"I  certainly  hope  so,"  Tommy  beamed. 
"There's  an  awful  lot  of  talk  about  it  on  the 
set." 

Danny  lapsed  into  silence  again.  Tommy 
regarded  him  quizzically.  "Say,"  he  said 
slowly  after  a  moment,  "on  the  level,  Danny, 
have  you  got  the  idea  I'd  run  out  on  you? 
Why,  you're  my  best  friend." 


"I  never  had  any  doubts  about  you, 
Tommy,"  Danny  explained,  "but  they  put  it 
up  to  me  pretty  strong  at  the  studio  today.  If 
you  weren't  my  best  friend,  I'd  never  lose  you." 

"Meaning  what?"  Tommy  asked. 

"  Well,  that  producer  nailed  me  after  he  saw 
the  rushes.  He  told  me  that  you  were  a  great 
actor  in  the  making  and  the  studio  was  willing 
to  undertake  the  making  provided  they  could 
deal  direct  with  you." 

"What  do  they  care  about  that?"  Tommy 
asked  surprised.  "They  don't  pay  you  any- 
thing. If  I  want  to  give  you  ten  per  cent  of  my 
contract,  I  don't  see  where  they  need  worry 
about  it." 

"That's  not  the  idea,"  Danny  said.  "He 
claims  that  he  can  make  stars  in  a  year's  time 
and  any  that  he  makes  he  must  deal  with 
direct  so  no  agent  will  hold  him  up  after  the 
actor  gets  to  the  top." 

"Are  they  going  to  demand  it?."  Tommy 
asked. 

""PROM  the  way  they  talked,  I  guess  they 
*-  are,"  Danny  answered.  "And  I'll  tell  you 
something  else,  Tommy.  When  they  do,  you 
tell  'em  that  you'll  square  things  with  me  all 
right  and  deal  direct." 

Tommy  thought  things  over  at  some  length, 
then  said,  "Of  course,  I  can't  afford  to  lose  the 
opportunity  of  becoming  a  star,  Danny.  But 
no  matter  how  much  money  I  get,  you  still  get 
ten  per  cent  of  it.  There  don't  have  to  be  any 
contract  for  that." 


Here's  Tommy!    Mr.  Meighan,  emerging  from  several  years'  retirement 
at  his  Florida  home,  is  again  in  Hollywood,  busy  making  pictures  on  the 
Fox  lot.    He's  shown  here  with  Gene  Sarazen,  famous  pro,  contemplat- 
ing a  shot  that  wandered  into  the  rough 


l'noii.iM  ay  Mac.a/im   inn  Aran  .  i     i 


1  2  I 


l  i.iiun  untied  at  this  evident  e  of  friendship 

tnywaj  "    1  oiiun >-  pointed  out,  "ii   they 

really  want  me,  why  not  let  then  buv  my  con 

■  from  you'    In  tli.it  way  you'd  eel  -i  '"' 

od  quick  capital,  Danny     I'd  love  to  see  then 

>  1* >  th.it      I  In  n  I  i  .hiM  -.inn  with  then  dii 

•Don't  ilmik  l  rniienri  that  chance,"  Danny 
siiiiK-d  "  I  told  then  I  vat  ready  to  negotiate 
ii  the}  wanted  to  buj  r '.i<  t 

w  hat  did  the)  M)  to  I 

■  [hey  mid  that  there  were  too  many  boys 
they  could  make  stars  without  buying  nnj  i on 
tract  It  1  wanted  to  Insist,"  be  tow  me,  "on 
sellins  the  contract  I  bave  with  you.  the) 
would  take  another  i«>\  and  make  i  rtar  of  him 
.i ii,  1  not  even  exercise  tin-  second  option  in  your 
nt  contract  w  ith  them 

There  was  silence  lor  ■  moment 

"Oh,  they  got  it  on  us  all  right,"  Danny 
terminated. 

A  I  ll  R  ■  long  pause  Jean  cut  in  "' >' 
-c."  she  said,  "we  can't  K- 1  Tommy  lose 
his  chance  to  be  a  star.  Therefore,  it  the  studio 
i>ist  upon  dealing  direct,  we'll  have  to  let 
then.  The  financial  uTangenents  al>out  the 
ten  per  cent  will,  of  course,  go  on  no  matter 
what  happens." 

•Will,  that's  darn  nice,"  Danny  said  "I 
appreciate  it  a  whole  lot  In  any  case,  I  told 
them  I'd  step  out  of  the  picture  if  they  wanted 

to  negotiate  direct  with  you.     You  know   I 

wouldn't  stand  in  your  way.     I  guess  they  will 

negotiate,  too,"  he  added  slowly.    "Gee,  it's  a 

peal  thing  to  have  friends  like  you  in  business, 
Tommy." 

So  the  supper  came  to  a  happy  conclusion 
and  the  three  went  out  to  see  a  picture  to- 
gether They  sat  in  the  darkened  theater  and 
whispered  their  various  reactions  to  the  efforts 
of  the  people  on  the  screen.  On  their  walk 
home  from  the  theater.  Tommy  dilated  con- 
siderably  upon  the  talents  of  the  gnat  star 
from  the  legitimate  stage.  "He's  a  gnat 
fellow  personally,"  be  pointed  out.  "But  he 
doesn't  understand  camera  angles.  The 
director  over  there  is  giving  me  plenty  of 
breaks.  I  hardly  know  him.  so  I  don't  see  why- 
he  should.  But  it  isn't  my  place  to  raise  a  kick 
about  it ." 

"  I  guess  you're  an  actor,  all  right, "  Danny 
laughed.    "Can't  you  see  what  that  means-'' 

"It's  a  mystery  to  me."  Tommy  admitted. 
"If  you've  got  anv  ideas,  I'd  love  to  have 
them." 

"Do  you  know  what  they're  paying  that 
star'"  Danny  demanded. 

"  No  idea."  Tommy  admitted. 

"Forty-five  hundred  a  week."  Danny  said 
laconically.    "That's  all,  Tommy." 

"Jiminy!"  Tommy  exploded. 

""VT'S,"  Danny  went  on,  "and  they're  talking 

*•  fifty  thousand  llat  a  picture  now.  with 
Iwnuses  if  the  picture  takes  over  six  weeks  to 
make." 

"Then  I  should  think,"  Tommy  snapped, 
"that  they'd  give  him  every  break  in  the  world ! 
He's  got  to  go  over  big  I " 

Danny  grinned.  "I'm  not  so  sure  about 
that,"  he  said.  "  If  he  does  go  across  big,  it 
means  that  they'll  have  to  pay  him  that  fifty 
thousand  every  picture." 

"If  he  goes  across  big  they  can  afford  to," 
Tommy  suggested. 

"Oh.  no,  they  can't."  Danny  sneered.  "Not 
if  they  can  get  you,  kid.  to  imitate  him!" 

Tommy  stopped  short  there  on  the  sidewalk. 

Say,"  he  said.  "  I  never  realized  it  before,  but 
that's  just  what  they  told  me  to  do.  Watch 
his  face  and  his  hands  and  his  feet;  see  how  he 
reads  his  lines.  ...  I  don't  want  to  be  an 
imitator.  Anyway,  that  star  is  too  nice  a 
fellow" 

"You  shut  up  a  minute."  Danny  cut  in  ex- 
citedly. "  If  I  didn't  think  you  had  good  sense, 
I'd  never  have  told  you  this  little  angle.  This 
movie  thing  is  a  racket.  Tommy.  I've  seen 
enough  of  it  to  know.  I've  talked  with  big 
business  men,  and  with  people  who  have  been 
stars  for  a  long  time.  The  only  thing  it's  got  to 
offer  the  people  in  it  is  money.    You've  got  to 


laces  < leansed  in 
Half  a  Twinkling  with  this  new 


v^ltlcA  \^/e 


&cz/zx&r 


WHAT'S  all  this  talk  about  the 
battle  for  beauty?  One  would 
think  that  to  keep  good  looking  was  a 
stupendous  daily  chore. 

Daggett  &  Ramsdell  users  know  better. 
Beauty  is  largely  a  matter  of  thorough 
skin  cleansing.  And  this  important  clean- 
sing can  be  accomplished  in  the  twink- 
ling of  an  eye  with  Daggett  &  Rams- 
dell's  new  Perfect  Cleansing  Cream. 

A  few  seconds  a  day  .  .  .  not  even 
minutes  .  .  .  are  all  it  requires  to  keep 
your  face  young,  fresh  and  scrupu- 
lously clean  if  you  use  this  penetrating 
cream.  Daggett  &  Ramsdell's  new 
Perfect  Cleansing  Cream  melts  in- 
stantly on  contact  with  the  skin.  It 
loosens  the  surface  dirt  so  it  can  be 
wiped  away  lightly  with  cleansing  tis- 
sues, sinks  down  into  the  pores  and 
routs  out  more  deeply  imbedded  grime. 


Urging  you  to  use  Daggett  &  Rams- 
dell's Perfect  Cleansing  Cream  regular- 
ly is  unnecessary,  once  you've  tried  it. 
The  cool,  fragrant  deliciousness  of  it  i^ 
too  great  a  treat  to  pass  up.  You'll  soon 
come  to  rely  habitually  on  this  dainty, 
petal-pink  cream  to  restore  vivacity 
when  your  skin  appears  listless  or 
jaded.  It  removes  make-up  readilv. 
At  night  before  retiring  it  leaves 
you  literally  ready  for  beauty  sleep. 

For  over  forty  years,  Daggett  &  Rams- 
dell products  have  been  the  choice  of 
fastidious  women.  Made  of  the  finest 
and  best  ingredients  obtainable,  there 
are  no  better  products  at  any  price. 

As  a  finishing  touch  to  cleansing  the 
face,  dash  on  a  bit  of  Daggett  & 
Ramsdell's  new  skin  tonic,  Yivatone. 
This  will  close  the  pores,  remove  ex- 
cess cream,  stimulate  the  complexion. 


•  •  large  sample  tube  free  •  . 

I»  \4.«.l  I  I   &  RAMSMX,  2  PARK  AVEM  E.  NBW  YORK  CITY 

Please  send  me  FREE  a  special  tube  of  Daggett  &  Ramsdell's  neic  Perfect  Cleansing  Cream, 

Name 


Street . 

(P 

City.. 


.p-*     State. 


12  2 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


Lake  Shore  Drive  Hotel 


Chicago's  Most  Fashionable  Hotel,  located  just  off  North 
Michigan  Avenue,  where  the  Drive  turns  east  at  Oak  Street, 
faces  Lake  Michigan,  commanding  an  unobstructed  view 
for  thirteen  miles  of  the  wooded  shore  line.  Away  from  the 
noise  and  congestion  yet  within  five  minutes  drive  of  the 
shopping,  business,  and  theatre  districts. 


As  a  hotel  it  is  complete  in  every  detail,  yet  it  has  retained  to  a 
remarkable  degree  the  atmosphere  of  a  distinguished  home. 

The  Dining-Room,  overlooking  Lake  Michigan,  with  an  en- 
vironment of  elegance,  formality,  and  classic  dignity,  is  a  striking 
background  for  fashionable  luncheons  and  smart  dinners. 

Lake   Shore    Drive    Hotel    and    Restaurant 

181    Lake   Shore   Drive,   Chicago,   III. 
W.  W.  MYERS   Mana-er 


figure  that  all  you'll  ever  get  out  of  it  is  money. 
Men  rise  to  stardom  on  the  whim  of  a  befuddled 
producer.  Anything  that  comes  as  easy  as  that 
can  vanish  just  as  easily.  I've  thought  this  all 
out.  You've  got  to  keep  your  mouth  shut  and 
do  as  you're  told." 

Jean  caught  him  by  the  arm.  "  Danny's 
right,  Tommy,"  she  said  earnestly.  "All  there 
is  out  here  for  anybody  is  money.  There  is  no 
art  and  there  is  no  real  achievement.  It's  all 
tinsel.  .  .  .  Publicity  that's  bought  and  paid 
for  through  the  nose,  Tommy.  A  great  play 
will  live  forever  because  it's  printed  in  book 
form  and  mirrors  the  work  of  genius  for  all 
generations  to  come.  The  greatest  picture  ever 
made  is  nothing  but  mandolin  picks  a  year 
after  it's  first  shown! 

"  A  NT  actor  can't  ever  express  himself  in  pic- 
-*Mures.  He  follows  blindly  the  orders  of  a 
blind  director.  That's  the  way  the  business  is 
run  and  that's  the  way  we've  got  to  look  at  it. 
Danny's  absolutely  right,  sweetheart.  Our 
whole  happiness  depends  upon  this  thing. 
You've  got  your  big  chance,  and  it's  my  big 
chance  and  Danny's  too.  You've  simply  got  to 
do  what  every  one  has  done  before  you.  What 
some  one  else  will  do  now  if  you  don't!" 

Four  days  after  the  completion  of  the  picture 
and  its  treatment  in  the  cutting  room,  Tommy 
was  quietly  notified  of  a  preview  in  the  Santa 
Monica  theater.  Fifteen  or  twenty  of  the 
executives  of  the  studio  attended  this  preview 
and  Tommy  sat  among  them.  He  listened 
eagerly  to  their  comments  and  looked  at  the 
screen  with  a  mild  stupefaction.  A  great  actor 
was  in  the  picture,  but  with  the  mechanics  of 
direction  and  cutting  arrayed  against  him,  his 
effectiveness  did  not  exceed  forty  per  cent. 
Time  and  again  scenes  actually  carried  by  this 
man  reflected  credit  upon  other  actors. 

As  they  left  the  theater  the  producer  himself 
laid  a  hand  on  Tommy's  shoulder.  "  Drop  in 
and  see  me  tomorrow  morning,  Tommy,"  he 
said  casually.  "  I've  something  in  mind  I  want 
to  talk  over  with  you." 

"  Yes  sir,"  Tommy  nodded.  "  I'll  be  glad  to. 
What  time?" 

"Well,  make  it  eleven-thirty." 
At  eleven-thirty  next  day  Tommy  was  in  the 
office.     At   twenty   minutes  of   two   he   was 
admitted  for  the  conference. 

"  It's  this  way,  Tommy,"  the  producer  began 

abruptly.     "You  looked  pretty  good  in  that 

picture,  but  I  guess  you  know  why,  don't  you?" 

"Well,  I'm  very  glad  you  think  so,  sir.     I 

tried  very  hard  to  learn." 

"  You  didn't  do  badly  at  all.  You've  got  a 
future,  young  man.  Provided  we  make  it  for 
you." 

"  Yes  sir,"  Tommy  nodded. 
"I  understand  you're  tied  up  with  this  young 
Grindle,  the  agent?'' 

"Yes  sir,  I've  a  contract  with  Danny.  We 
started  together,  you  know." 

"Well,"  the  producer  said  frankly,  "it's 
every  man  for  himself  in  this  business,  Tommy. 
I'm  sick  and  tired  of  being  badgered  by  agents 
who  have  prior  contracts  with  my  actors.  I 
promised  myself  I'd  never  again  make  a  man 
important  if  I  had  to  deal  through  an  agent." 
"Y'es  sir,"  Tommy  said  dubiously. 

"T'YE  decided  I  can  make  you  important.  I 
J-can  make  you  famous  and  rich." 

"  I'm  mighty  glad  to  hear  that,  sir,"  Tommy 
nodded. 

"  But  I  can't  deal  through  an  agent.  Nothing 
against  Danny  Grindle,  you  understand.  A 
fine  young  kid  and  all  that,  but  Ijustdon't  deal 
any  more  through  agents." 

"I  see,  sir." 

"If  you  can  get  out  of  your  contract  with 
him,  I'll  sign  you  up  on  a  new  contract  here. 
Tommy.  I'll  start  you  out  at  a  flat  two 
hundred  dollars  a  week  and  let  it  run  without 
option  for  twelve  months.  I'll  put  a  clause  in 
the  contract,  stating  that  if  you  make  good  I'll 
double  your  salary  the  second  year,  making  it 
four  hundred  a  week.  If  you  want  to  agree  to 
this.  I'll  start  the  wheels  running  to  build  you 
up  at  the  box-office.     That  means,  Tommy, 


lint  you've  got  .1  good  living  for  the  next  two 

\ ,         and  ill  li  r  thai   JfOU  I  in  '"'  •'  itai  " 

I  onuny  wet  hi  i  h;>->  nervous!)      1 1 
;i  moment  .v  It n  h  he  had  d 

l  q  hi'. ,     n  .ill  powerful  produi  i 
t>>  In 1 11  ai  .i  futun  itar,  was  unspeakable  joy. 
But  he  <l"  ided  to  be  i  autious.    "  I've 
contrat  i    «  ith   I  >anny,"  he 
e,  1  haven't  ih    i  apital  to  buy  it  from 
him 

I  lien-  n  i  quality  in  his  vok e 

wlui  h  the  produi  ei  < 1 1> I  not  mi  i      1 1" 
man  shrugged  his  shoulders  and  rea<  bed 
cigar.      "That's    your    problem,     Tommy, 
i  •  «  many  fine  kids  around  Hollywood 

to  lake  your  place  it  you  can't  arrange  tins. 
I'm  not  interested  in  buying  any  contract 

"T  DIDN'T  mean  exact!)  that,"  rommy  ven- 
tured.   "I  just  wondered  how  I'd  square  it 
with  I  >ani 

"Well]  it  he's  your  friend,  he  won't  stand  in 
your  way,"  the  producer  pointed  out.  "  I'll  go 
even  further  ih.m  I've  said.  I'll  guarantee  you 
two  hundred  dollars  .i  week  for  one  year.  I'll 
put  an  option  in  the  contract  increasing  to 

four  hundred  and  fifty  for  the  second  year.   I'll 

do  that,"   he  s.ud  magnanimously,  "just   to 
show  you  thai  I  mean  business.    If  you*Vi 

good  sense,  you  won't  miss  a  t  ham  e  like  that  " 

"No  sir,"  Tommy  said  eagerly,  "I'll  not 
miss  it,  sir.  I'll  find  a  way  to  fix  this  up  with 
Danny." 

"  \ll  right,  go  and  do  it.  lie  hack  here  at  five 
o'clock  this  afternoon  with  a  written  release. 
Wait  a  minute.  I'll  fix  this."  He  pressed  a 
button  which  summoned  a  secretary.  To  the 
young  lady  he  said,  "Go  to  .Mr.  Levy,  our 
lawyer,  fell  him  to  draw  up  a  proper  form  of 
release  to  ho  signed  by  Daniel  Grindle,  releas- 
ing Tommy  Randan  from  any  and  all  con- 
tractual arrangements  between  them.  Explain 
to  Levy  that  I  want  this  release  so  worded  that 
we  can  sign  up  a  new  contract  with  Karidan." 

"  x  69  sir,"  the  girl  responded. 

To  Tommy  the  producer  snapped,  "  Be  back 
at  live  o'clock  with  that  signed  release-.  You 
can  get  it  in  the  next  half  hour.  I  think  you've 
got  good  sense,  kid." 

As  Danny  signed  the  release,  he  said, 
"You're  on  your  way  up,  all  right.  Nothing 
can  stop  you  now.     What  a  break  for  them, 

tool" 

"What  a  break  for  me,  you  mean,"  Tommy 
interrupted.  "Two  hundred  bucks  a  week 
with  pretty  good  assurance  that  I'll  get  four 
fifty  n''xt  year,  and  seven  hundred  after  that. 
Jean  and  I  don't  need  any  more  than  that.  I've 
got  no  ambition  to  be  one  of  these  ten  thousand 
a  week  fak. 

"  \fter  you  finish  and  release  this  picture," 
Danny  went  on.  "you'll  be  worth  at  least  two 
thousand  a  week  to  these  people,  and  they'll 
be  getting  you  for  ten  per  cent  of  your  value. 
Thai's  why  they're  pushing  you  to  the  front. 
That's  why  they  crossed  up  the  big  stage  star 
who  came  out  here  with  his  forty-five  hundred 
a  week  salary.  They  don't  want  people  like 
that  when  they  can  get  by  with  youngsters  at 
;  three  hundred  a  week." 

"f^.W  you  blame  a  business  man  for  that  if 
^-Mio  finds  it  possible?"  Tommy  queried. 

"Motion  pictures  aren't  all  business."  Danny 
protested.  "That's  where  the  big  mistake  is 
made.  Tommy.  A  producer  owes  more  to  his 
public  than  he  does  to  his  treasurer's  report. 
'That  producer  who  fulfills  first  his  obligation  to 
his  public,  need  never  worry  about  his  treas- 
urer's report.  Hut  these  producers  out  here  are 
too  short-sighted  to  see  that  fact.  Don't  mis- 
understand me."  he  went  on.  "I'm  as  happy 
over  all  this  as  you  are.  except  that  there  are 
certain  features  about  it  I  see  that  you  don't 
see  " 

"Well,  what  are  they?" 

"You're  the  victim  of  a  grab,"  Danny  in- 
sisted vehemently.  "They're  using  you  to 
cheat  big  actors  out  of  their  accustomed  salary 
in  the  first  place;  and  in  the  second  place, 
they're  using  big  actors  as  a  threat  over  your 
head  in  order  to  cut  your  salary"  to  a  minimum. 


I'liui  rjwj  w    M  \i.  \/im     rOl      \ikii  .    1931 
DO     YOU     WANT     A    COLOR 
COPY  OF  THIS  FOR  FRAMING? 


l  2 


A  beautiful  rull-colof  reprint  oi  tins  picture, 

I  1  l>y  1  I  inches,  on  heavy  art  paper  «  ttfaoul 

any  advertising,  willl  •  in  stamps 

and  one  side  of  s  Pro-pby-lai  <icToocb  Brush 

box.  Aiklrcss  Dipt.  I'- 1  i  Pro-  phy-  lac  •  nc 
lirush  (.<).,  1  lorifut,  MtSS. 


White  Teeth  . . . 

longer  &j>TO-pr\y. 

bring  both  benefits 


Healthy  Gums 

lac-tie   bristles 


IF  you  do  not  feel  a  tingling  glow  of 
health  in  your  gums  after  brushing 
your  teeth,  please  try  one  of  the  modern 
Pro-phy-lac-tic  Tooth  Brushes.  They  have 
the  long,  pearl v  bristles  that  insure  health- 
giving  gum  massage,  and  thorough  cleans- 
ing of  teeth. 

Brush  from  the  base  to  the  tips  of  the 
teeth,  uppers  and  lowers  separately.  This 
is  the  method  which  dentists  advise.  You 
will  feel  how  the  extra-resilient  bristles 
s-p-r-e-a-d.  How  they  firmly  but  gently 
massage  the  gum  margins.  How  the  sharply 
pointed  tufts  reach  and  clean  bet  ween  teeth. 

The  gum  massage  is  automatic,  produced 
by  ingenious  Pro-phy-lac-tic  design  and 
qualitv  bristle.  While  you  are  polishing 
the  teeth  to  gleaming  brightness  you  auto- 


matically do  good  to  your  gums.  The 
blood  supply  is  energized.  Tissues  arc 
firmed.  Oral    resistance    is    strengthened. 

Don't  expect  such  results  from  brushes 
of  lesser  quality,  whose  bristles  get  flabby 
alter  a  few  wettings  in  water.  Pro-phv- 
lac-tic  bristle  comes  from  France,  Russia, 
and  all  world  markets.  It  is  the  first-cut 
from  the  butt  end,  and  its  "liveness"  and 
resistance  to  water  can  be  recognized  in  its 
almost-transparent  pearly  color. 

Because  we  make  Pro-phy-lac-tic  Tooth 
Brushes  right  in  our  own  New  England 
plant,  and  have  done  so  since  1SSS,  they 
carry  the  broadest  guarantee  in  the  field: 
If  for  any  reason  at  all  their  sen  ice  fails  to 
satisfy,  ue  uill  send  you  a  new  brush  with- 
out charge. 


TUFTED  Pro-phy-lac-tic 

To   reach    ami  ch-an    rrrrv    part   of    ftrrv    toofn,    use 

thi*  }ru*h  .     I  *jh  nally  if  your  molar*  (hark,  teeth)  are 

troublesome.     Trv    it.     S>e   hour  the  famous   tufted  toe 

reaches  back  teeth.  In  all  colors;  50f. 


MASSO   Pro-phy-lac-tic 

The  nctccst  tmall-tvpe  brush.    Desiernr+f  rVv  a  committee 

of  the  dental  profession  for  maximum  rlmntnt:  ^f  mtrr- 

drntal  crcrim,  and  correct  /ttnsuval  friction.    .Vot>  the 

pointed,  tcide~*paced  tufts;  5(\. 


124 


CEfl»  ARTI ST 
Earn  a  Fat  Income 

WHAT  would  you  give  to  be 
thoroughly  trained  in  Mod- 
ern Art  on  which  magazines,  news- 
papers and  publishers  are  spending 
millions  every  year?  Many  Federal 
Students  who  already  have  this 
training  are  earning  from  $2300  to 
$6000  a  year — some  even  more. 

More  than  fifty  famous  artists 
making  big  incomes  themselves 
have  contributed  exclusive  lessons 
and  drawings  to  the  Federal  Course 
in  Illustrating.  Through  these 
lessons  you  may  get  the  benefit  of 
their  long  experience  in  Illustrat- 
ing, Cartooning,  Lettering,  Poster 
Designing,  and  Window  Card  Illus- 
trating. Careful  training  through 
the  Federal  Course  teaches  you  to 
turn  simple  lines  into  dollars.  You 
learn  at  home  in  spare  time.  Earn 
while  you  learn  if  you  wish. 
Through  their  professional  success 
hundreds  of  Federal  Students  have 
already  proved  the  value  of  this 
home  study  art  instruction. 

TEST  YOUR  TALENT— FREE 
Fill  out  the  coupon  below  and 
get  the  Free  Book  "A  Road  to 
Bigger  Things."  You  will  also  re- 
ceive our  Free  Vocational  Art  Test 
to  measure  your  ability.  When  you 
fill  this  out  and  return  to  us  our 
instructors  will  go  over  it  and  give 
you  a  frank  opinion  as  to  your 
ability. 

Mail  the  Coupon 
NOW 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

It's  the  same  old  Hollywood  army  game  and  it 
makes  me  son." 

Tommy  could  see  that  it  was  quite  possible 
Danny  was  right  in  his  various  contentions. 
This,  however,  seemed  unimportant  to  him. 
At  last  his  break  had  come  in  the  studios.  The 
daily  food  problem  had  been  solved  majestic- 
ally and  completely.  On  a  salary  of  two 
hundred  dollars  a  week,  one  hundred  eighty  of 
which  remained  his,  Tommy  could  be  perfectly 
happy. 

T_TK  was  so  completely  dominated  by  his  love 
■*■  -Mor  Jean  and  hers  for  him,  that  he  viewed 
life  and  the  future  entirely  through  lenses  of 
bliss.  Anything  that  enabled  him  to  marry 
Jean  must  be  a  gift  direct  from  the  gods. 

The  picture  was  finished  almost  on  schedule 
and  after  a  cursory  cutting,  which  followed  two 
previews,  was  released.  for  no  particular 
reason  that  any  one  could  lay  a  finger  upon,  it 
instantly  began  doing  unexpected  volume  in 
the  business  world.  It  was  a  winsome  picture 
with  a  happy  illusion  not  easily  dispelled  and 
the  public  accepted  it  for  its  reflection  of  folk 
lore  in  the  outer  world  of  which  Hollywood 
knows  nothing.  It  became  a  first  class  money 
getter.  In  Hollywood  itself,  as  a  result  of  this 
productivity,  it  became  a  bone  of  contention. 
The  director  of  the  picture,  of  course,  laid 
claim  to  all  its  glory.  The  star  himself  insisted 
that  he  had  lifted  a  mediocre  story  into  the 
realms  of  prosperity  by  his  own  powerful  in- 
terpretative art.  The  producer,  in  contrast 
with  these  two  individuals,  bestowed  credit 
upon  his  own  god-like  supervision,  plus  his 
foresight  in  inserting  a  new  face  into  the 
picture,  plus  his  judgment  in  the  selection  of 
the  director  and  his  gifted  alterations  of  the 
original  story  submitted  by  the  author. 

The  sum  total  of  these  cogitations,  however, 
was  an  immediate  and  hungry  desire  to  get 
another  story  comparable  to  this  one  and  make 
another  picture  that  would  be  an  excellent 
money  getter.  The  mysterious  executive 
offices  of  the  studio  assumed  a  feverish  atmos- 
phere predicated  upon  much  darting  about  by 
authors,  supervisors,  executives'  assistants, 
producers,  directors,  actors,  technical  advisers, 
script  girls,  camera  men  and  secretaries.  Out 
of  all  this,  Tommy  Raridan,  unexpectedly, 
emerged  something  of  a  hero.  He  was  called 
once  again  into  the  producer's  office  and  it  was 
explained  to  him  that  his  work  in  the  recent 
picture  had  been  such  as  to  warrant  starring 
him  in  a  vehicle  of  his  own.  The  producer  ex- 
plained that  a  story  similar  in  nature  to  the  one 
made  by  the  famous  star  of  the  legitimate  stage 
with  whom  Tommy  first  worked,  was  in  course  of 
preparation  for  him.  He  slapped  Tommy  on 
the  back  and  shook  him  by  the  hand.  He 
smiled  happily  and  chortled  gleefully  that  he 
should  have  foreseen  this  success  for  Tommy 
and  made  it  possible,  while  Tommy  himself  had 
risen  to  the  heights  of  opportunity  and  capital- 
ized the  chance  for  him. 

TOMMY  returned  gleefully  to  report  to  Jean 
and  Danny  this  newest  of  amazing  develop- 
ments. Danny  received  the  news  in  a  sulky 
silence.  Jean  permitted  herself  to  be  waf 
away  again  on  the  wings  of  imaginatii 
Tommy  read  the  excellent  notices  in  the  news- 
papers and  fan  magazines  which  followed  his 
work  in  the  last  picture.  He  had  become  news 
and  conjecture  framed  his  name. 

"There's  no  need  in  waiting  any  longer, 
Jean,"  he  said  to  the  girl.  "Let's  get  married 
right  away.  I  can  furnish  a  little  flat  and  we 
can  go  on  from  there.  After  all,  it's  each  other 
we  want.  I  hate  to  think  of  you  with  the  old 
mob  outside  of  the  gate  while  I'm  riding  the 
crest  of  the  wave  on  the  inside  of  it." 

"Sure,"  Danny  nodded,  "you  two  might  just 
as  well  get  married.  You'll  be  a  lot  happier 
and  I  suppose  it  will  be  grand  publicity  for  both 
of  you  anyway.  Maybe  as  Mrs.  Raridan  you 
could  get  bigger  parts,  Jean,  and  I'd  make  some 
money  out  of  this,  too."  He  finished  with  a 
laugh.  So  the  engagement  was  announced  pub- 
licly and  because  of  Tommy's  recently  attained 
identity,  great  interest  manifested  itself. 


DANDRUFF 

A  Sure  Way  to  End  It 

There  is  one  sure  way  that  never  fails  to  re- 
move dandruff  completely,  and  that  is  to  dissolve 
it.  Then  you  destroy  it  entirely.  To  do  this, 
just  apply  a  little  Liquid  Arvon  at  night  before 
retiring;  use  enough  to  moisten  the  scalp  and 
rub  it  in  gently  with  the  linger  tips. 

By  morning,  most,  if  not  all,  of  your  dandruff 
will  be  gone,  and  two  or  three  more  applications 
will  completely  dissolve  and  entirely  destroy 
every  single  sign  and  trace  of  it,  no  matter  how- 
much  dandruff  you  may  have. 

You  will  find,  too,  that  all  itching  of  the  scalp 
will  stop  instantly  and  your  hair  will  be  lustrous, 
gloss\-,  silky  and  soft,  and  look  and  feel  a  hun- 
dred times  better. 

You  can  get  Liquid  Arvon  at  any  drug  store, 
and  a  four  ounce  bottle  is  all  you  will  need. 

This  simple  remedy  has  never  been  known  to 
fail. 

PHOTOS 
ENLARGED 

Sim  16x20  inch*s 
Same  price  for  fi 
length  or  bust  for 
g roups,    landscapes, 
pet  animals,  etc.,  or 
enlargements  of  any 
pori    of  group    pic- 
ture.   Safe  return  of  your  own 
original     photo    guaranteed. 

SEND   NO    MONEY 

J  ustmail  photo  or  snapshot  (any 
size,  and  within  a  week  you  will 
receive  your  beautiful  life-like 
enlargement  srie  16x20 m. guar- 
anteed fadeless.  Pay  postman 
98c  plus  postage  or  send  SI. 00 
with  order  and  we  pay  postage. 

Special  Free  Offer  «g 

enlargement  we  will  send  FRKE 
a  hand-tinted  miniature  repro- 
duction of  photo  sent-  Take  ad- 
vantage as*  of  thi-"  amazing 
offer — s*nd  your  photo  today. 

UNITED  PORTRAIT  COMPANY 

900  W.  Lake  St.,  Dept.  D-131,  Chicago,  III. 


cnti 

98 


Corns 


for 
Hard  Corns- 


End  Cora  Pains 

instantly  with  Wizaru  Im* 
proved  Corn  Pads.  Cush- 
ioned, bat  not  bulky.  Oh. so 
comfortable.  Treated  with 
mercuroehrome  (HWiU). 
Safe.  10c  and  35c  package. 
FREE  sample.  Write  for 
it.  Send  your  dealer's  name 
-^— '        and  address. 

Wizard  Co.  1636  Locust.  St  Louis  Mo. 


Wizard  Corn  Pads 


South  Carolina  Ave. 
at  the  Boardwalk 

Atlantic  City,  N.  J. 


ATLANTIC  CITY'S  RTEWEST 

Centrally  Located  Fireproof  Hotel 

C4"*"/\    European  American     «f* 

aid  R.  B.  LUDY.  M.D.  J 

«■■«■■*■    --a»a»iA^«iAAa»Aa\   ±^~4 


y^DramaDance 


Jll  »  Muaical  Corner,  Stale  and  Concert   Denciac.  Tilkmt 

Pictoree.  Elocution.  Pcreonal  Development  Moek 
Theatre  Trainior.  eppearancee  while  learninc.  Pupila.  Mary  Pickiord 
Lee  Tracy.   Fred  mad  Adete  Aatatre.  etc.     Calaioc   In. 

Irwln.  Alvlene  University.  66  W.  S5th  St..  New  York 


Photopi  \\   M  ioazini    i  ob  Aran     i     i 


125 


1  iiininv  went  Into  in-.  :  •  hit  i' 

w iih  an  mi btuiatm  l loll  "I  not 

\u  Ill.lUrl    bO*    lli.inv   hours  he 

m.i\  bavt  toiled,  01  bow  selling  might  i><  lu^ 
from  ilu-  klri^s,  in  how  reeling  hii  head 
I  be  endleu  dial  I  ommy  alwaj  1 

1  rudgtd   t"  the  projet  1  ing   room   I 
rushes  ol  his  pit  ture    Hit  natural!)  provocative 
manner,  coupled  with  his  high  determination, 

reflected    in    his    work.      His    UnCtiOD    mi    in 

disputable.      Some    conceded    bis    stardom 

grudgingly,  others  happily,  nunc  there  were. 

.  rr,  u  ho  denied  thai  Tommy  Raridan  hail 

arrived  ami   the  studio  hail   made  a  real  dis- 

covery. 

Invitations  began  to  reach  the  young  per- 
former, and  they  included  his  fiancee,  Jean 
Appleton.  In  this  manner  he  caught  the 
gossip  of  executives  and  bigger  figures  in  the 
celluloid  world. 

At  various  house  parties  he  heard  various 
pictures  discussed  and  the  personalities  of  the 
screen  ROM  over  with  a  view  to  isolating  their 
particular  fitnesses  for  parts. 

He  took  infinite  pride  in  finding  himself  in- 
cluded in  these  weighty  conferences.  It  was  at 
such  an  atTair  that  he  met  again,  personally, 
the  star  from  the  legitimate  stage  with  whom 
he  first  had  performed. 

"TTKI.I.O.  there,"  the  star  greeted  him  cor- 
■1-  ^dially.  They  shook  hands  and  the  star  led 
him  oil  into  a  corner.  "I'm  glad  to  see  you, 
youngster,"  he  said.  "They  tell  me  you're 
knocking  them  dead  over  on  the  lot." 

I've    had    some    pretty    lucky    breaks," 
Tommy  admitted. 

"  Well,  there's  a  whole  lot  to  that,  of  course. 
Hut  you've  got  something  else  besides,"  the 
star  siid  in  friendly  tones.  "  You'll  learn 
sooner  or  later,  kid,  that  they  don't  pick  you  up 
out  here  just  for  the  sake  of  picking  you  up. 
You've  got  a  lot  to  sell,  or  they  wouldn't  be 
buying  it." 

"Thank  you,"  Tommy  said  wholesomely. 
He  had  a  natural  liking  for  this  eminent  person, 
had  always  felt  vaguely  disturbed  about  a 
rumor  that  he  was  one  of  the  man's  well- 
coached  imitators.  "You've  always  been  sort 
of  an  idol  of  mine,"  he  went  on  smilingly. 

"  I'll  return  the  thanks,"  the  star  smiled. 
Then  ruminatively,  "I  hear  a  lot  about  you, 
Tommy." 

"  1  hey  are  going  line  for  me,  thanks." 
Tommy  smiled. 

"Paying  you  plenty  of  money?"  the  star 
grinned. 

"Nothing  like  they  pay  you."  Tommy  said. 
"But  a  lot  for  me.  I'm  only  a  youngster  get- 
ting started." 

"A  gold  mine,"  the  star  said  sagely,  "is  never 
a  youngster  and  never  old.  As  long  as  it's 
worth  anything,  it's  worth  the  gold  it  can  pro- 
duce." 

"I  suppose  that's  true,"  Tommy  nodded 
uncertainly.  "I  don't  quite  get  what  you 
mean,    though." 

"You  will  as  you  grow  older,"  the  star  said. 
"I  don't  want  to  pry  into  your  business.  Tom- 
my, but  I  would  like  to  know  what  they're 
paying  you  over  there.  I've  heard  rumors,  of 
course." 

"T  DON'T  mind  telling  you."  Tommy  said 

■*•  frankly.  "I  get  two  hundred  dollars  a  week 

for  the  first  year,  four  hundred  and  fifty  for 

the  second  and  seven  hundred  for  the  third." 

"Holy  mackerel!"  the  star  exclaimed.  "On 
the  level  are  you  working  for  two  hundred 
dollars  a  week?" 

"That's  pretty  good  for  me.  It  was  only  a 
short  time  ago  that  I  was  working  for  seven- 
fifty  a  day  when  I  got  a  chance  to  work." 

The  star  groaned.  "Gee,  kid.  you  certainly 
are  dumb:"  he  said.  "I  don't  mean  to  be 
offensive,  but  it  kinda  burns  me  up  to 
youngster  treated  like  that.  Another  thing. 
I've  learned  a  lot  about  this  picture  racket 
myself  since  I  got  out  here.  They  gave  me  a 
tine  kicking  around.  I  don't  feel  any  too 
friendly  toward  them." 

"I  shouldn't  think  you  would."  Tommy  ad- 


New  beauty  in  underdress 

The  remarkable  success  of  this  smart 
garment  has  been  due  to  a  dainty  tuck, 
which  does  away  with  ugly  bagginess, 
eliminates  hot,  bunchy  fullness,  and  gives 
a  snug  fit  to  the  body  in  any  position. 

It  is  underdress  made  for  action — and 
beauty.  Short  in  front,  with  a  longer  ex- 
panding back  that  adjusts  itself  instantly 
to  any  attitude  of  the  moving  body. 

A  clever  tuck  at  the  thigh  has  revolution- 
ized underdress. 

Kickernick  is  made  for  long  service — even 
to  the  new  Everlastik  inserts,  which  will 
outlive  the  long  life  o(  the  garment. 

Made  in  all  smart  fabrics  and  colors 
by  the  Winget  Kickernick  Company, 
Minneapolis.  See  them  today  at  better 
stores  everywhere.    Send  for  booklet. 


Kickernick^ 

PATENTED    UNDERDRESS 


I  26 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


You  never  lose  Ivory 
in  your  bath  — 
it  floats  ! 

qQ    4  V-foo  %     pure 


I. 


=~1„ 


STAFFS* 


The  screen's   greatest 

celebrities    have    honored 

Hotel  Sherman. 

^P^K  c 

■*^^ 

Will  Rogers 

Mary  Pickford 

Douglas  Fairbanks 

Constance  Talmadge 

Lupe  Velez 

Dolores  Del  Rio 

Vilma  Banky 

Rod  La  Rocque 

Lily  Damita 

Maurice  Chevalier 

Ronald  Colman 

Gloria  Swanson 

Jlj! 

Single  Room  With  Bath 

^f^<p 

$2.50,  $3.00,  $4.00 

■^AtZ'* 

and  $5.00 

Double  Room  With  Bath 

^J 

$4.00,  $5.00,  $6.00 

^             and  $8.00             ^ 

find  luxurious 
comfort  and 
hospitality  un- 
surpassed at 
HOTEL 

SHERMAN 


RANDOLPH  CLARK  -  LAKE  ■  LA  SALLE.  -  STREETS 


m 


iXm 


SUBSCRIBE   FOR   PHOTOPLAY 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and  Cuba; 
$3.00  Canada;  $3.50  to  foreign  countries.  Remittance  should  be  made  bv  check,  or  postal 
or  express  money  order.     Use  the  convenient  Subscription  Blank  on  Page  143. 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO,  ILL. 


mittcd.  "I  guess  they  did  kick  you  around  in 
the  cutting  room." 

"They  weren't  so  sweet  to  me  on  the  camera 
angles  either."  the  star  suggested. 

"I'm  awfully  sorry,"  Tommy  began  to  ex- 
plain. 

"You  aren't  to  be  blamed,"  the  star  laughed. 
"You'd  be  a  sucker  not  to  go  for  that,  sonny. 
I  hold  nothing  against  you.  In  fact,  I  feel 
pretty  friendly  toward  you." 

"I  hardly  see  why  you  should." 

"Well,  I'll  show  you,"  the  star  laughed.  "I 
must  confess  I  don't  feel  friendly  toward  the 
producer  who  tried  to  ruin  me  out  here  in 
order  to  save  himself  forty-three  hundred  a 
week.  You're  starting  a  starring  picture  now, 
aren't  you?" 

"*V"ES,  sir.     I  just  started  on  it,"  Tommy 

■*■  said. 

"Well,"  the  star  laughed  slowly,  "if  you 
hadn't  been  a  pretty  good  imitator,  Tommy, 
they'd  be  paying  me  forty-five  hundred  or  five 
thousand  a  week  to  make  the  same  picture 
now.  This  is  just  a  racket  out  here.  That 
producer  is  a  gyp  artist  and  I  know  it,  so  I 
can  do  you  one  grand  turn  and  square  mat- 
ters with  him  at  the  same  time." 

"How  come?"  Tommy  smiled. 

"Didn't  you  do  business  through  an  agent 
before  you  signed  up  direct?" 

"Yeah.    Danny  Grindle.    You  know  him?" 

"Sure  I  do.  And  I'll  have  a  talk  with  him 
in  my  own  way  .  .  .  Now  take  me  around  and 
introduce  me  to  that  little  sweetheart  of 
yours,  Jean  Appleton." 

Ten  days  after  this  conversation,  Tommy's 
starring  picture  was  well  into  production.  Sets 
had  been  built;  agreements  with  performers 
signed;  a  director  brought  in  on  an  outside 
contract  and  altogether  an  investment  in  ex- 
cess of  a  quarter  of  a  million  dollars  already 
been  contracted. 

Then  it  was  that  Tommy  heard  the  news  at 
which  the  star  had  hinted. 

He  was  called  one  day  from  the  set  into  the 
producer's  private  office. 

There,  to  his  astonishment,  he  found  Danny 
Grindle. 

Danny  had  assumed  a  suddenly  important 
air  and  his  attitude  toward  the  producer  was 
really  that  of  a  dictator  instead  of  a  vassal. 
The  producer  was  red  in  the  face. 

"What  kind  of  a  frame-up  is  this?"  he 
bellowed  as  Tommy  entered  the  room. 

"Frame-up?"  Tommy  demanded  in  amaze- 
ment.   "I  don't  know  what  you  mean." 

"Pretty  smart  little  crab,  ain't  you?"  the 
producer  bellowed.  "I  treated  you  like  a 
white  man.  Why  can't  you  be  the  same  to 
me?" 

"I  don't  know  what  you're  talking  about." 
Tommy  insisted.  "What  is  it,  Danny? 
What's  gone  wrong?" 

Very  pompously  and  with  a  sly  wink  in 
Tommy's  direction,  Danny  took  to  pacing  the 
office  floor  while  he  explained. 

"I've  just  served  an  injunction  on  this  gen- 
tleman," he  pointed  out.  "He  cannot  go  on 
producing  that  picture  you're  starring  in, 
Tommy." 

BUT  why  not?"  Tommy  insisted.  "There's 
already  almost  a  quarter  of  a  million  spent 
on  the  picture." 

"That's  of  no  consequence  to  me,"  Danny 
said  almost  flippantly.  "Your  services  were 
gained  by  fraud  and  coercion.  Through 
deception  I  was  impelled  to  release  you  from  a 
perfectly  sound  and  legal  contract  you  had 
with  me.  The  fraud  is  quite  clear,  and  my 
attorney  stands  ready  to  proceed  in  the  matter." 

"It's  a  damned  swindle,"  the  producer  in- 
sisted wrathfully.  "It's  a  plain  hold-up,  that's 
what  it  is." 

"You  shouldn't  excite  yourself  like  this," 
Danny  said  to  the  man.  "It's  very  bad  for  the 
digestion,  you  know.  I  have  the  testimony  of 
two  directors,  a  camera  man,  and  a  great  star 
of  the  legitimate  theater,  to  indicate  what 
your  scheme  has  been.  You  ruined  the  per- 
formance of  a  great  and  expensive  star  while 


PH0T0P1  \y    M  u.\/im     i  OS    Ai'Kii  .    1       1 


tftrhing  this  l.nl  t"  Imitate  blm  I  tun  you 
forced  him  undo  dun- .  to  break  his  i  ontrai  i 
with  me  and  sign  dirccl  Voui  pn  «nl  con 
iti.  i   is  m  rendered  invalid  and  1  <>w[i  his 

"Will,    uli.it    do    VOU    want'"    the    produier 

roai 

'*  I  'HERE,"  Danny  nodded    "rii.it'-  much 

*■  hitler     I    want    .1   contrail    lor   tWO    \ 

without  option,  guaranteeing  Tommy  Raridan 
two  thousand  dollars  .i  week,  payable  through 
my  agen<  y  rhat'sall  I  want, and  tliat'-  .ill  I'll 
take.  When  you  are  ready  to  sign  up  on  that 
basis,  we'll  go  ahead  with  tin-  picture." 

I  in-  producer  sank  back  into  hi-  luxurious 
rh. in  .ui.l  looked  murder  though  he  remained 
in  irticulate. 

Danny  turned  to  Tommy. 

"  This  gentleman  already  realises  th.it  there 
i-  no  possible  way  be  can  get  around  this 
thing  unless  he  wants  to  throw  two  hundred 

and  fifty  thousand  dollars  worth  of  picture  out 

the  window  and  confess  to  tin-  world  at  large 
why  hi-  did  it." 

Tommy  could   not    find   answer.     The  pro 

ducer  finaTij  regained  control  of  himself.  With 

.in  eyt   that    was  livid   hut   hopeless,  he  spoke 

to  the  rising  young  agent 

"It's  you  fellows  that  make  a  racket  out  of 
the  motion  picture  business,"  he  said.  "1 
admit  you  win.  If  you  can  get  any  sati- 
faction  out  of  robbery,  go  over  and  tell  Levy 
to  draw  the  contract  on  the  terms  you  state  " 

Without  further  argument,  Danny  bowed 
and  left  the  office  bound  for  the  attorney's. 

"T  NEVER     knew    anything    about    this,' 
■*■    Tommy  began  to  explain. 
"I   know  damn    well   you   didn't,"   the  pro- 
ducer retorted.       "I    don't    hold    anything 

against  you.  Tommy.  Anyhow,  even  at  two 
thousand  a  week,  if  that  damn  little  fool  knew 
it,  I  got  a  bargain  in  you  I" 

There  is  a  wedding  due  in  Hollywood  and 
instead  of  a  tlat.  there  will  be  a  new  home  on 
the  brown,  treeless,  sunbaked  peaks  of 
Beverly  Hills. 


How  do  you  like  Evalyn  Knapp's  new 
sports  jewelry?  It  looks  like  celluloid, 
but  isn't,  being  non-inflammable. 
Those  circlets  on  the  wrist  are  nice 
to  stick  hankies  through 


Bristles  of  highest  resiliency — 

shaped  accurately  for  direct 
cleaning!  That's  why  you  will 
say  " Tek  is  the  best  tooth  brush 

I've  ever  used."'  Tek,  with  its 
extra  quality  and  plus  value, 
costs  no  more  than  your  old 
brush.  Tek.  sterilized  and  Cel- 
lophane-sealed; at  your  dealer's 
50c  Tek  Jr.,  35c.  Guaranteed 
by  the  world's  largest  makers 
of  dental  accessories. 

Gofimcu<i(jcfunm 


lil  IIIM)    YOUR. 
fRO\T  T«T«/ 


Ilic  deep  carve  formed  by  xour  thumb 
and  forefinger  is  similar  in  shape  to 
your  dental  areh.  Try  this  experiment. 
See  how  easily  Tek's  small,  precise 
brnsh-head  can  sweep  behind  your 
front  teeth  even  into  this  narrow  e-t 
space.  Then  sec  if  your  old  brush  can  do 
this.  Now  you  will  understand  the  free 
action  and  efficiency  of  Tek  on  every 
tooth  surface — and  in  every  crevice. 
Your   mouth    tiill    firl   the    difference. 


Tek 

the  modern 

TOOTH  BRUSH 


128 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


Cleans  Gloves 


like  Magic 


YOU  can  always  enjoy  the  luxury  of 
fresh,  clean  gloves  if  you  follow  these 
simple  directions:  For  kid  gloves — place 
on  hands  and  rub  lightly  with  a  clean 
Energine-moistened  cloth.  Spots  vanish 
completely  and  gloves  are  ready  to  wear 
because  Energine  dries  instantly. 

For  completely  soiled  or  washable  gloves — 
submerge  in  a  shallow  basin  of  Energine, 
squeeze  lightly,  then  permit  to  dry.  They 
are  ready  in  just  a  minute  —  delightfully 
clean,  fresh.  Energine  leaves  no  odor  and 
no  regrets. 

Spots  and  soil  from  all  apparel  including 
suits,  dresses,  coats,  hats,  ties,  shoes,  etc. — 
are  quickly  and  thoroughly  removed  with 
Energine.  Just  follow  the  simple  directions 
on  the  label.  A  little  goes  a 
long  way.  Get  theEnergine 
habit — it  saves  money 
and  self-respect.  Large 
can  35c.  All  druggists. 

Millions  Of  Cans  ^- 

Sold  Yearly  ^ 


ww&- 


LEAVES    NO  ODOR 


THE  PERFECT  CLEANING  FLUID 


Don't  be  an 
EX-BLONDE 

"TTOWmuchlighteryourhairusedtobe."  What 
il  a  pity  to  hear  this  from  old  friends.  You 
won't  if  you  use  Blondex.  This  special  shampoo, 
f  it  blondes  only,  prevents  darkening— gradually 
restores  natural,  radiant  beauty  to  dull,  faded 
blonde  hair.  Not  a  dye.  No  injurious  chemicals. 
Good  for  scalp.  Follow  the  advice  of  a  million 
delighted  users.  At  all  standard  drug  and  de- 
partment stores.  Try  Blondex  today. 


CORNS 

and  tender  toes  —  relieved 
ia  1  minute  by  these  thin, 
soothing,  healing  pads.  Safe! 
Also  sizes  for  Callouses,  Bunions 

DlScholls 

Zinopads 


41 


You  Should  See  My  Kid  Sister" 

[  CONTINUED  PBOM  PAGE  31  j 


High,  to  learn  the  things  every  youngster 
learns,  but  to  other  schools,  to  learn  the 
A  B  C'S  of  the  theater.  Nance  O'Neil  taught 
her  dramatics;  dance-master  Ernest  Belcher 
taught  her  the  arts  of  Terpsichore;  a  noted 
voice  teacher  gave  her  singing  lessons  .  .  . 

A  XD  in  the  meantime,  Sister  Jeanne  was 
-^Mooting  Marian's  horn.  "You  ought  to  see 
my  kid  sister!"  became  her  stock  phrase  on  the 
lots  where  she  worked. 

She  helped  the  youngster  get  extra  parts, 
here  and  there.  One  day,  on  the  Warner  lot, 
when  both  were  working  the  same  day, 
Jeanne  talked  the  still  photographer  into  taking 
some  art  portraits  of  Marian.  They  were 
magnificent — Elmer  Fryer,  the  photographer 
who  did  it,  is  recognized  as  one  of  Hollywood's 
best.  And  somehow — Jeanne  won't  admit  she 
did  this! — somehow,  the  pictures  came  to  the 
attention  of  Jack  Warner. 

"Good  Jehosaphat — she  looks  like  Dolores 
Costello!"  was  his  reaction.  And  it  was  true — 
Marian,  big-eyed,  blonde,  round-faced,  did 
look  like  Dolores  Costello,  who,  having  just 
married  John  Barrymore,  was  off  the  screen. 

"We'll  take  a  chance."  They  signed  her. 
And  then  Warner  Bros,  studio  shut  down! 
Once  again,  luck  seemed  to  have  deserted  the 
sister  before  Marian  could  get  a  real  chance. 

That  brings  us  to  just  a  few  weeks  ago — 
near  the  end  of  little  Marian's  contract.  They 
were  looking  for  somebody  to  play   Trilby. 


Actress  after  actress  had  been  interviewed, 
tested,  found  wanting.  John  Barrymore, 
picking  his  own  cast,  was  mighty  particular 
about  Trilby — he  wanted  somebody  who 
looked  like  the  Trilby  Du  Maurier  had  sketched 
to  illustrate  his  own  book.  And  more,  Barry- 
more wanted  something  more — he  was  looking 
for  a  quality  he  couldn't  quite  define.  And  in 
the  midst  of  it,  he  fell  ill.  Executives  were 
desperate.  Barrymore'ill,  flat  on  his  back,  costs 
mounting,  and  no  Trilby. 

"How  about  little  Marian  Marsh?"  sug- 
gested Jack  Warner.  "She  looks  like  Dolores 
Costello.    Maybe  .  .  ." 

Marian  was  called  to  the  studio.  She 
wasn't  told  what  was  up.  "You're  going  to 
call  on  Mr.  Barrymore,"  was  all  they  told  her. 
She  was  bundled  into  a  car,  and  to  Barry- 
more's  house.  Into  the  sickroom.  Terrified, 
she  was.  So  much  had  been  told  of  Barry- 
more's  strange  ways — she  didn't  know  whether 
he'd  curse  her  out  or  eat  her  up.  All  he  did  was 
ask  her  a  few  questions,  and  look  a  bit  startled 
at  the  resemblance  between  her  and  Dolores. 

Then  they  took  her  away. 

Y\  TELL,  that's  about  all  there  is  to  the  story. 
W  Except  that  when  they  told  her,  seventeen- 
year-old  Marian  was  so  thrilled,  she  could 
hardly  talk.  And  it  was  funny  to  see  her  try 
to  remember  the  poise  Xance  O'Xeil  had 
taught  her,  and  forget  she  was  just  a  schoolgirl 
that  was  living  a  real-life  Cinderella  story. 


What!  No  Guns? 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  56  ] 


Put  one  on — 
the  pain  is  gonet 


glittered  and  shot  fires  of  venom  around  the 
room.  It  was  terrific.  And  that  part  made 
Edward  G.  Robinson  the  king  of  stage  and 
picture  gangsters.  A  nice  pal — like  an  angry 
rattlesnake! 

Playing  Scarsi  in  a  Coast  production  of  "  The 
Racket, "  he  was  snapped  up  by  Universal  for  a 
part  in  "The  Xight  Ride."  And  Eddie  was  off 
on  his  career  behind  a  sub-machine  gun.  He 
hates,  he  shoots,  he  kills!  And  the  astonishing 
part  of  it  is  that  Edward  G.  Robinson,  up  to 
the  hour  he  burst  upon  us  in  "The  Racket," 
was  labelled  "a  highbrow  actor." 

He  had  appeared  in  some  ten  plays  for  the 
hoity-toity  New  York  Theater  Guild,  guardian 
of  high  and  lofty  art  for  the  American  stage. 
He  was  a  Master  of  Arts  of  Columbia  Univer- 
sity. He  had  created  suave  characters  for  the 
best  producers  on  Broadway  during  his  sixteen 
years  in  the  theater — as  well  as  many  good 
roles  in  foreign-language  playhouses. 

THEN  the  guns  of  "The  Racket"  barked, 
and  he  was  typed.  Now  he  is  Lillk  Caesar 
on  and  off — the  venomous  little  viper  who 
carries  nothing  more  lethal  in  his  hip  pocket 
than  a  French  linen  handkerchief.  And  Eddie 
writhes. 

"I  don't  want  to  be  typed!"  he  says.  "I've 
played,  and  can  play  any  sort  of  character.  In 
fact,  I'm  a  creator  of  character — not  a  type- 
player." 

And  Robinson  is  right — and  I'd  almost 
rather  be  Robinson  than  right,  considering  that 
new  contract.  Anyone  who  saw  his  magni- 
ficent performance  as  the  Italian  grape  grower 
in  "A  Lady  to  Love,"  Yilma  Banky's  talkie, 
knows  his  versatility.  He'll  get  new,  fresh 
roles  in  Hollywood,  but  he's  labelled.  He's 
Little  Caesar'  Put  him  under  the  microscope, 
and  here's  the  manner  of  man  this  adder  is: 

Born  in  Bucharest,  Roumania,  in  1893.  In 
childhood  he  wanted  to  be  a  lawyer,  a  teacher 
and  an  actor,  and  he  compromised  on  acting. 


His  family  came  to  America  and  was  natural- 
ized when  Eddie  was  a  kid. 

He's  married  to  Gladys  Lloyd,  the  actress — 
there  was  just  a  flash  of  her  in  "Little  Caesar." 
She's  a  beauty,  and  blonde,  and  they're  as 
happy  a  pair  as  you  could  find  in  a  week's 
march  over  hill  and  dale. 

I  MET  Eddie  and  his  Missus  on  the  steps  of 
beautiful  St.  Thomas's  Church,  in  New  York, 
one  Easter  Sunday  morning,  a  year  or  so  ago. 
He  was  fresh  from  the  fusillades  of  "The 
Racket."  I  hurriedly  frisked  him,  but  found 
no  thing  more  incrimina  ting  than  a  foun  tain  pen . 

"We've  just  been  in  to  look  at  the  flowers," 
said  Eddie.    "And  how  beautiful  they  are." 

I  hate  to  tear  the  cruel  mask  from  Little 
Caesar  this  way.  There  is  probably  no  actor 
now  alive  who  can  portray  concentrated 
cruelty,  unlimited  ruthlessness,  bottled  venom 
and  bottomless  hatred  as  can  this  mild-voiced, 
wide-mouthed,  sparkling-eyed  little  Rou- 
manian. But  here  he  is — gentle,  kindly,  in- 
tellectual and  mild.    Not  a  gat  in  a  carload. 

But  I  don't  expect  to  ever  sell  the  soft- 
spoken,  harmless  Eddie  Robinson  to  the  kids 
of  the  Republic.  In  a  truly  remarkable  way, 
the  brand  of  Little  Caesar  is  upon  him.  Though 
Eddie  founds  a  dozen  orphanages  with  his 
spare  change,  he'll  still  be  the  merciless  killer 
to  the  youngsters  of  the  land. 

Xot  since  the  brave  days  of  Theda  Bara  her- 
self has  a  character  fastened  itself  upon  a 
player  to  this  degree.  Oh,  Eddie  Robinson 
will  get  all  sorts  of  grand  parts  to  play  before 
he  leaves  Hollywood  to  its  own  devices  and 
vices.  But  the  mark  is  on  him.  Often,  as  he 
tosses  on  his  downy  cot  o'  nights,  he'll  think 
of  the  last  line  of  that  great  picture,  as  Caesar 
lies  wounded — 

"  Mother  of  Mercy,  is  this  the  end  of  Rko?" 

And  Edward  G.  Robinson,  the  man  who  be- 
came Caesar,  will  toss  harder,  and  mutter: 

"Good  gosh,  I  hope  so!" 


Photoplay  Magaztot  ros  Aran.,  1931 


How  "Trader  Horn" 
Was  Made 

[OUNXINUI  D  l  ROM  PAO]     ;"  ' 


and  falling  to  the  ground.    Then  the  camera  is 

moved    to  a   doM  up     In    the   interval   a    m.m 

wearing  a  wig  was  substituted. 
li  the  scene  is  closely  watched  the  Hon  can 

lie  •.em  dislocating  the  wig  as  lie  paws  at  the 
man  before  being  Frightened  away  by  watt  hers 

behind    the    camera.      While    the    lion    was 

reputed    to   he   amiable   there   were,   ncvcrthe- 
-.  veral  men   with  rilles  ready  if  the  man 

should  he  sttai  feed, 

\nother  instance  of  clever  faking  i>  I  he  scene 

showing    a   charging    rhinoceros   goring  and 

tossing  a  native.  The  rhino  i-.  real  enough  and 
the  charge  is  furious  and  genuine,  hut  there 
isn't  any  native  at  all  lie  iv.es  drawn  on  the 
film  after  the  manner  of  animated  cartoons. 
On  the  screen  this  scene  is  so  luief  that  the 
StndlO  work  cannot   he  detected. 

Possibly  the  biggest  thrill  of  the  pit  ture  is 
the  lions  tight ing  over  a  kill,  lighting  hyenas 
and  zebras  and  killing  a  deer.  These  are  all 
made  in  Mexico,  in  a  corral  constructed  for 
the  purpose.  Caged  animals  were  let  loose 
with  the  lions,  who  had  been  starved  and 
hungered  for  days  in  advance.  The  battles 
ensued  naturally. 

Riflemen  were  stationed  at  strategic  points 
lest  any  of  the  animals  escape,  and  cameras 
were  posted  at  every  conceivable  angle. 

Willi. I',  many  of  the  tribal  gatherings  are 
authentic,  taken  when  the  company  first 
reached  Africa,  a  few  of  the  native  shots  were 
taken  in  the  studio  with  Negroes,  recruited 
from  the  colored  section  of  Los  Angeles,  play- 
ing the  parts  o\  native  - 

While  an  anthropologist  might  easily  detect 
the  difference  between  the  American  Xegro 
and  the  African  native,  the  average  movie- 
goer is  unable  to  make  the  distinction.  Like- 
wise with  the  scenery,  and  settings.  It  wasn't 
Africa,  but  it  was  good  colorful  background. 

For  more  than  a  year  the  M-G-M  studios 
worked  on  sound  and  continuity  and  cutting 
on  "Trader  Horn."  Prolific  use  was  made  of 
the  Dunning  process,  a  method  that  imposes 
characters  photographed  at  one  time  against 
the  background  of  action  taken  at  another 
time. 

All  of  those  labors  were  expertly  and  effec- 
tively done.  In  addition  to  its  wide  enter- 
tainment values.  "Trader  Horn"  is  a  splendid 
example  of  the  mechanics  of  making  an 
effective,   dramatic  picture. 


Dietrich  —  How  She 
Happened 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  2°  ] 


Dietrich  in  some  of  her  photographs  and  those 
of   Mona   Lisa,   Leonardo  da  Vinci's  master 

painting? 

That  look,  too.  is  the  sublimation  of  Euro- 
pean womanhood. 

Translated  into  American,  one  might  say 
Marlene  Dietrich  is  the  girl  with  the  Mona  Lisa 
look  anil  the  beautiful  lees. 

In  an  age  when  in  America,  too,  the  flapper 
and  the  jazz  baby  have  had  their  day.  when 
hair  and  skirts  are  longer,  and  Florenz  Ziegfeld 
demands  rounder  revue  girls;  when,  in  a  word, 
a  more  feminine  touch  is  the  fashion.  Mar'ene's 
overwhelming  success  seems  not  unnatural. 
Rather  it  may  be  accepted  as  significant  of  the 
trend  of  the  times. 


At  Tor — <  ■rnitinr  Orrinar.lUomtm 
urdding  rinfi,  hand-cluisin*  on 
aim,-  gaU.  From  $  10.  . .  jtwn — 

A/d/r/ip./  .**•*,  rniHiarmrnt  ntnl  tm/- 
dinn  riniis  u  tth  Ixiutirttr  iiiul  rntind 
diamonds  in  plaiinum.  $17"..  .  .  . 
Traub  riniis.  in  many  other  \tyits. 
Jrom  110  to  $500. 


I  I'll  II  I) 


The  rig  lit  ring  .  .  for  the  left  !•<■  ml 


•  It's  so  important — the  choice  of  The  Ring.  And  how 
most  cf  us  hate  to  make  important  decisions  —  how  we  fuss 
and  fret  over  alternatives!  Yet  this  most  vital  matter  is 
altogether  fascinating  and  delightful  to  settle. 

•  What  shall  it  be  like  .  .  .  vour  wedding  ring?  Remem- 
ber— it  is  the  symbol  of  your  marriage  ...  it  must  be  as 
beautiful  as  your  brightest  hopes  and  plans.  You  will  wear 
it  every  day — for  a  long,  long  time  ...  it  must  be  as 
enduring  as  love  itself.  Others  will  judge  you  by  it  .  .  . 
choose  it  carefully. 

•  Traub  rings  are  radiantly  beautiful,  correct  in  design, 
of  fine  workmanship.  Your  jeweler  will  show  them  to  you 
— hand-chased  or  set  with  selected  stones.  Ask  his  advice 
in  deciding  other  new-home  purchases  too.  He  will  help 
make  the  choice  of  the  Right  Ring  the  easiest,  pleasantest 
task  in  the  world. 

•  Write  for  booklet,  "Bridal  Etiquette,"  for  helpful 
information  about  announcements,  trousseaus,  and  the 
Ceremony.  It  shows  many  interesting  styles  in  rings  for 
women  and  men. . . .  Traub  Mfg.  Co.,  193  3McGraw  Ave., 
Detroit,  Mich.,  and  Walkerville,  Ont    t»»oc  ^PfiolscEi   ■*«« 


i3o 


WHOSE   EYES 
ARE  THESE? 


Only  18,  yet  she'**  one  of  First  {National  PicturcM*1 
moat  popular  start*.  This  youthful  beauty  in 
5  ft.,  .'I1  .•  inches  tall,  weighs  100  pounds,  and  ha** 
blue  eyes  and  light  brown  hair.  Name  below*. 

end  eye  strain 
this  quick  way 

When  reading,  sewing  or  office 
work  has  left  you  with  tired, 
aching  eyes,   simply   apply  a 
few  drops  of  harmless  Murine. 
Almost  immediately  they'll  feel 
fresh  and  rested,  and  will  look 
just  as  fine  as  they  feel!  Also 
use  Murine  after  motoring 
and   other  outdoor  exposure 
to  soothe  away  the  irritation 
caused  by  sun,   wind  and 
dust.  60c  at  drug  and  depart- 
ment stores.  Try  it  soon! 

*Loretta  Young 

Millions  of  Bottles  Used  Yearly! 


Itching 
torture 
ended! 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

Not  all  Kuropean  stars,  of.course,  have  been 
all  gentle  femininity.  Bohemian  upbringing 
and  success  may  have  spoiled  them.  But 
Marlene  is  not  spoiled — at  least,  not  yet. 

FOR  the  theater  and  the  movie  studio  is 
merely  one  side  of  her  life.  In  private  life  she 
is  Mrs.  Rudi  Sieber,  the  wife  of  a  German 
movie  producer,  and  the  mother  of  a  charming 
five-year-old  daughter,  Maria.  She  loves  her 
beautiful  Berlin  home  where  her  mother  lives, 
too,  and  Paramount  was  able  to  lure  her  to 
Hollywood  only  on  condition  that  she  could 
return  home  to  husband  and  child  for  a  pro- 
longed vacation  every  year. 

Her  first  vacation  from  her  American 
triumphs  brought  her  home  in  time  for  Christ- 
mas. All  fashionable  Berlin  was  cavorting  at 
winter  sports  places  in  Germany  and  Switzer- 
land. Marlene  stayed  at  home,  banished  all 
professional  cares,  refused  all  interviews,  ac- 
cepted few  invitations  and  devoted  herself  to 
mother,  husband,  child — and  cooking. 

"They  won't  let  me  photograph  myself  with 
my  daughter  any  more,"  she  explained  laugh- 
ingly when  I  finally  saw  her.  "They  think  it's 
enough  if  I  just  mention  her.  The  idea!  She's 
the  most  wonderful  child  in  the  world!" 

Just  the  same,  Marlene  obeys  orders.  The 
photograph  of  Marlene  and  her  daughter 
printed  here  has  been  obtained  from  other 
sources  without  her  knowledge. 

But  Marlene  is  not  just  a  German  hatttfrau 
by  any  means.  She  is  an  accomplished  musi- 
cian, and  she  loves  sport.  She  likes  to  speed 
through  the  country  in  an  auto,  she  loves 
tennis,  and  she  is  a  good  swimmer. 

Like  many  another  girl,  Marlene  came  to  the 
stage  through  the  lure  of  the  forbidden. 

She  was  bom  in  Berlin  on  December  27 — 
never  mind  the  year — as  the  daughter  of 
patrician  parents.  Her  father  was  Majro 
Dietrich  of  the  German  army.  He  died  before 
the  war.  Her  mother,  nee  Felsing,  comes  from 
a  substantial  merchant  family  of  Berlin,  and 
Marlene's  uncle,  Herr  Conrad  Peking,  is  owner 


Don't  suffer  night  and  day    , 
with  itching,  burning  skin.   ' 
Get  cooling,  soothing,  anti- 
septic Zemo.  Thousands  find 
relief    in    first    application.  ( 
Safe,  dependable,  invisible.  Zemo  helps  re- 
store skin  to  healthy  smoothness.    Use  any- 
time for  Itching,  Dandruff,   Pimples,  Blem-  / 
ishes.  35<,  60d,  S1.00.  All  Druggists. 


VVM.  DAVIS.  M.  D. 


Wales 

How  to  banUh  them 

A  simple,  safe  borne  treat- 
ment— 16  yeare'  success  in  my 
practice.  Moles  (also  Big 
Growths)  dry  up  and  drop 
off.    Write  for  free  Booklet 

124-D  Grove  Ave,  Woodbridge,  N.  J. 


of  three  fashionable  jewelry  shops  in  Berlin's 
three  most  fashionable  shopping  streets. 

After  the  death  of  her  first  husband,  Mar- 
lene's mother  married  Herr  Rittmeister  von 
Losch,  member  of  the  German  nobility  and 
captain  of  the  Death  Head  Huzzars  of  Danzig, 
whose  regimental  chief  was  then  the  German 
crown  prince.  Captain  von  Losch  fell  en  the 
battlefield  during  the  war. 

Through  the  peace  treaty  of  Versailles, 
Danzig  was  detached  from  Germany  and  is  now 
a  free  city  under  the  supervision  of  the  League 
of  Xations,  but  with  in  the  Polish  customsunion. 
This  change  of  Danzig's  sovereignty  possibly 
accounts  for  the  reports  that  Marlene  Dietrich 
is  not  a  German. 

But  she  is  a  Berlin  girl.  Marlene  says  it 
proudly.  Her  name,  incidentally,  is  a  contrac- 
tion of  the  names  Maria  and  Helene. 

She  passed  her  childhood  under  the  strict 
regime  and  in  that  sheltered  manner  whi  h 
was  typical  in  German  patrician  and  es- 
pecially officer  families  before  the  war — rigid 
family  discipline  enforced  by  the  father,  careful 
isolation  from  too  much  contamination  with 
the  world  enforced  by  the  mother,  submergence 
of  self  in  worship  of  the  male  members  of  the 
family,  enforced  by  her  own  inherited  instinct. 

T\  7H  AT  she  remembers  most  of  her  childhood 
**  is  that  she  seemed  to  be  constantly  mov- 
ing from  one  garrison  to  another.  Garrisons  are 
usually  in  small  towns.  Thus,  though  born  in 
a  metropolis,  Marlene  really  grew  up  a  small- 
town girl. 

She  didn't  attend  theaters.  Theaters  were 
still  considered  wicked.  They  were  strictly 
taboo  for  girls. 

Of  course,  this  merely  roused  her  curiosity, 
but  declamation  of  school  poems  was  con- 
sidered the  only  proper  outlet  for  her  desire 
at  self-expression. 

Her  Uncle  Conrad,  however,  related  that 
Marlene  was  always  an  exceptionally  bright 
girl,  and  precocious  at  mimicry. 

"Her  imitations  of  people  and  early  attempts 


Clara  — This 
is  Terrible 


Clara,  since  you've  asked  my  opin- 
ion, I'll  tell  you  quite  subtly  that  I 
think  these  pajamas  are  terrible. 


They're    split    up    to    the    knees 
front.    And  just  why  is  this? 


And  they  have  two  trains  in  the  back 
— one  local  and  one  express.  And  just 
why  is  this? 


The  only  thing  good  about  these 
pajamas,  my  dear  Miss  Bow,  from  a 
fashion  standpoint,  is  that  they  are 
pajamas. 


r^Xe^sT^UO-LC/L. 


Photoplai  M  \'.\/.-.i    i  "i   Aran     I     I 


■31 


to  in>i  literary  >  bam  lei    u  ed  lo  pro 

vide  ,i  1..1  -it ni  i«T  the  family,    i»- 

but  even  the  thought  oi  reei  would 

have  been  heresy  What  an  "accomplished" 
Kirl  of  a  "better"  family  bad  to  know,  ti 
.  ,  was  musi<  s"  Marlene  itudied  .u  tin 
Collect  for  Musk  in  Berlin  undei  the  famous 
I  lew  li.  .uul  was  then  w  nl  to  .1  girls' 
finishing  u  Ioh>I  .11  Weimar. 

Here  she  learned  English  and  French  and 
continued  ber  musk  studies,  becoming  .111 
a.  1  omphshed  violin  player  Also,  she  began  to 
come  out  of  the  shell  of  the  small-town  girl  and 
develop  into  that  vital  personality  that  one  can 
now  fee]  smoldering  below  the  outward  calm. 
Now  that  she  is  famous,  school  friends  recall 
that  she  was  the  leader  in  many  ■  n  Ihk>I  prank. 

HER  actual  turn  to  the  theater  was  largely 
accidental.  Through  too  much  violin  prac- 
tice she  strained  ber  hand  and  was  forbidden  to 
touch  a  violin  for  si*  months.  During  that 
time,  too,  she  and  her  mother  moved  back  to 
Berlin. 

Saving  nothing  else  to  do,  she  decided  to  try 
out  for  the  stage  I I<r  mother  didn't  think 
much  <»f  ber  talent,  but  she  argued  that  either 

--lit-  had  some  talent  or  she  didn't,  and  the  best 
man  to  tell  her  lhal  wotdd  he  Max  Keinhardt. 

So  to  Bernhardt  she  went 

lie  accepted  her  for  his  stage  school  at  the 
•■  Deutst  be  Theater  "  After  -i\  weeks  she  had 
her  lirst  engagement— in  Shakespeare's  "Tam- 
ing of  the  Shrew  " 

lhe  movies  were  going  big  in  Germany  and. 

of  course,  the  girls  filmed  as  well.  Thai  is.  they 
played  extra  parts  when  they  got  a  eh. wire. 
Joe  May  gave  Marlene  her  first  real  rhancc  on 
the  screen  in  "Tragedy  of  I 

Then  she  played  on  the  stage  again  for 
Director  Bamowsky  in  "Rubicon,"  where  she 
was  successful  enough  to  win  an  engagement  at 
the  Prussian  State  Theater  in  "Duel  on  the 
Lido." 

After  that  she  played  for  Bernhardt  in  "It's 
in  the  Air."  a  musical  comedy.  This  was  her 
lirst  real  -access.  Then  she  stopped  for  a  year 
and  a  half. 

"Why?"  I  asked 

"Oh."  she  answered.  "I  had  married  and  I 
was  having  a  baby,  a  most  wonderful  baby,  and 
I  didn't  have  any  time  for  anything  else." 

She  came  luck  to  the  stage  again  in  "  Broad- 
way." which  she  played  both  in  Berlin  and 
Vienna.  Then  she  really  broke  into  the 
movies.     That.  also,  was  an  accident. 

ROBERT  LAND  had  seen  her  in  "It's  in  the 
Air  "  He  gave  her  .1  little  part  in  one  of  his 
films  and  liked  her  work  so  well  that  two  weeks 
later  he  gave  her  the  leading  role  opposite 
Harry  I.iedtke  in  "I  Kiss  Your  Little  Hand, 
Madame."  That  was  in  1928.  It  became  her 
first  movie  success. 

After  that  she  changed  off  between  film  and 
Stage.  First  she  played  with  Fritz  K.ortner  in 
the  movie  "Three  Loves."  which  ran  for  six 
wceksat  the  "Playhouse"  in  Xew  York,  as  well. 
Then  again  on  the  stage  for  Reinhardt  in 
Bernard  Shaw's  "Misalliance"  h  Berlin. 
Then  Maurice  Toumeur  gave  her  the  leading 
role  in  the  film  "The  Ship  of  Lost  Souk,"  and 
later  she  played  in  George  Kaiser's  revue. 
"Two  Cravats."  That  proved  an  extraor- 
dinary success  and  got  her  a  Hollywood  con- 
tract— again  by  accident. 

For  Josef  Yon  Sternberg  had  just  come  to 
Germany  to  direct  "The  Blue  Angel,"  Kmil 
Jannings'  first  all-talking  picture,  which  was  to 
be  made  Inith  in  German  and  Fnglish.  Origi- 
nally he  had  hoped  to  use  either  Gloria  Swanson 
or  Phyllis  Haver  for  the  leading  feminine  role 
opposite  Jannings.  but  Miss  Swanson  refused, 
and  Miss  Haver  had  retired  to  a  happy 
domestic  life  as  the  wife  of  William  Seeman, 
wealthy  executive  of  Seeman  Brothers,  big 
American  food  corporation. 

So  he  searched  for  the  type  he  wanted,  but 
with  little  success.  He  dropped  into  the 
theater  where  the  "Two  Cravats"  was  playing, 
weary  after  a  long  day  of  vain  searching  and 


a  new  mystcnous  v^Jlovv! 


into  cheeks  touched  with  almost  magical 
Prinoeas  Pat  rouge,  there  comes  mysterious 
new  t>eauty —  color  that  is  vibrant,  intense, 
glorious,  yet  sutTii.-cd  with  ti  soft,  mystical 
underylow  that  niake.t  brilliancy  natural! 

Xo  woman  over  used  Prineess  Pat  rouge  for 
the  first  time  without  being  ama/ed.  ACCUS- 
tomed  to  ordinary  rouges  of  one  fiat,  shallow 
tone,  the  youthful,  glowing  naturalness  of 
Princess  Pat  gives  beauty  that,  actually  be- 
wilders, that  thrills  l>eyond  words  to  describe. 

Th«  Lift  Principle  ol  All  Color  It  Glow 
The  mysterious  fire  of  rubies,  the  opalescence 
of  opals,  the  fascinating  loveliness  of  pearls 
depend  upon  glow.  Flowers  possess  velvety- 
depths  of  color  glow.  In  a  naturally  beauti- 
ful complexion  there  is  the  most  subtle. 
beautiful  glow  of  all,  the  luminous  color 
thawing  through  the  skin  front  beneath. 

Now.  then!  All  ordinary  rouge  blot*  out  nloxr. 
On  the  contrary  Prinoeas  Pat  rouge  impart* 

slow — even  to  pallet  complexions.  The  won- 
derful color  you  achieve  seems  actually  to 
come  from  within  the  skin.  It  is  sparkling,  as 
youth  is  sparkling.  It  is  suffused,  modulated. 
It  blends  as  a  natural  blush  blends,  without 
definition,  merging  with  skin  tones  so  subtly 
that  only  beauty  is  seen — "painty"  effect  never. 


Only  th«  "Duo-Ton«"  Secret  Can 
Give  This  M.sic  ol  Lifelike  Color 

Xo  other  rouge  can  po-sibly 
beautify  like  Princess  Pat 
"duo-tone."     Why'.'     Because 


Princess  Pat  Lif  Rorai  a 
I  nsation  —  nothing  less. 
For  It  does  schat  no  other  Up 
has  c*er  done  Princess 
Pat  Up  Rouge  colors  that  in- 
side moist  surface  of  lips  as  well 
as  outside.    It  u  truly  indtlibU. 


no  other  rouge  in  nil  the  world  i"  composed  of 
tun  dittind  tonet,  perfectly  blended  into  one 

by  a  very  secret  process.    Thus  earl,  (ha 
Princess  Pat  route  possess*  al  under- 

gUnc    to    harmonize    with    the   skin,    and    an 
I   give   forth   vibrant   color.     Mori- 
over  Princess  Pat  rouge  change*  on  the  skin. 
adjusting  its  intensity  to  your  individual  need. 

Every  Shade  of  Princess  Pet  Matches  Any  Skin 

Whether  jrOU  are  blonde  or  brunette,  or  any 
type  in  between,  any  shade  of  Pnncc.-s  l'at 
you  «elect  will  harmonize  with  your  skin. 
The  duo-tone  aocrot  gi  es  this  unheard  "f 
adaptability.  And  what  a  marvelous  advan- 
tage; for  variations  of  your  coloring  are 
unlimited.  There  are  shades  of  Prim  •  -  Pat 
for  sparkle  and  intensity  when  mood,  gown 
or  occasion  dictate  brilliance;  -hades  for  rich 
healthful  tints;  shades  that  make  cl>. 
demure;  a  shade  for  WOndrOUS  'an  :  an  rxotie, 
glowing  shade  for  night  —  under  artificial 
lights. 

Be  Beautiful  Today  es  You  Never  Were  Before 

Prineess  Pat's  thrilling  new  beauty  i-  too 
precious  to  defer.  And  word-  cannot  ade- 
quately picture  the  effect  upon  your  cheek-. 
Only  when  you  try  Princess  Pat  duo-tone 
rouge  will  you  realize  its  wonders.  Today, 
then,  secure  Princess  Pat 
and  discover  how  glori- 
ously beautiful  you  can  be. 

get  this  Week  End 
Set  — SPECIAL 

The  rirv   eateaJSSr  PrSeCM  /'•:■'  I 

End  Set  for  this  COOPi 
(coin,.     Easily  a  month's  supply  of 
almond  base  pomUr  and  FIVE 
delightful  Princess  Pat  preparations. 
Beautifully  die  orated  boudoir  box. 


P 


rincess  fat 


CHICAGO.    V     9     A.    (IX    CANADA.   i>3    CBCRCH    9T  .  TORONTO) 


P, 


-    P  \T.  Drpt     A-l 
WeAl  - 
Fnelnsrd  find  2.">c  tor  which  send  me  tbe 
PTincrss  Pat  Week-End  Set. 


Name  (print). 


City  and  State 


Youth 

is  flaming  again ! 

Youth  in  Paris  —  youth  in 
America — smart  youth  every- 
where seizes  the  new  flaming 
■make-up  mode  as  hot  stuff ! 

Cardinal  is  the  flaming  new 
shade  in  Po-Go  Rouge.  Bright 
as  bright  can  be.  Styled,  hand- 
made, hand-packed  in  France. 
Waiting  here  for  you  at  50c. 

If  you're  blonde,  Brique  gives 
enchanting  brightness;  Sciu- 
mon  lends  faint  allure.  All 
Po-Go  shades  sold  everywhere 
or  by  mail  direct  from  us. 

GUY  T.  GIBSON,  Inc. 
565  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York  City 


0 UO  ROUGE 


Made  and 
Packaged 
in  France 


©1931 
G.T.C.Inc 


/^  Woman's 
Charm 


EVERY  man  "  ^ 

admires   a   winning 
personality,    bright 
eyes,   a  skin   glow- 
ing   with    health     5S| 
and  color. 

So  often  a  woman  loses  charm  because 
her  nervous  system  is  rundown.  Strong  nerves  and 
good  looks  go  together.  A  woman's  feminine 
make-up  is  strengthened,  she  regains  her  fresh, 
youthful  complexion  and  bright  eyes,  if  she  takes  a 
tonic  which  is  sold  by  every  druggist  .  .  . 


\ 


Dr.  Pierce's 
Favorite  Prescription 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

almost  at  the  point  of  returning  to  America. 
He  was  late  and  missed  part  of  the  first  act,  but 
he  arrived  just  in  time  to  hear  Marlene  cry  in 
English: 

"Three  cheers  for  the  gentleman  who  has 
won  the  grand  prize!" 

They  were  the  only  English  words  she  spoke 
in  the  whole  show,  but  they  immediately 
arrested  Von  Sternberg's  attention.  He  saw  in 
her  just  the  actress  he  wanted  and  sent  his  card 
back  stage  that  night,  made  an  appointment 
for  her  to  see  him  the  following  day  at  the  UFA 
studio,  and  she  was  signed  for  the  part  in  "The 
Blue  Angel." 

She  scored  a  pronounced  success,  and  Von 
Sternberg  knew  he  had  made  a  real  discovery, 
but  Marlene  objects  to  the  impression  in  some 
quarters  that  it  was  her  success  in  "The  Blue 
Angel "  which  won  her  her  Hollywood  contract. 

"T  HAD  my  contract  in  my  pocket  long  be- 
■*■  fore  that  film  was  finished,"  she  says,  "and 
on  the  opening  night  of  'The  Blue  Angel'  I 
left  for  Hollywood." 

Her  fame  hasn't  turned  her  head.  To  hear 
Marlene  tell  it  it  was  all  just  work— and  a  few 
lucky  accidents.  She  sincerely  believes  it  and 
takes  her  success  calmly. 

She  doesn't  even  believe  that  her  "  type"  or 
her  special  attractiveness  had  much  to  do 
with  it. 

She  repudiates  the  "  European  woman"  idea 
put  forth  at  the  beginning  of  this  article. 

"Good  work  will  win,"  she  says.  "Type? 
Why,  there  are  many  types  in  Hollywood,  and 
the  American  girl  type  is  the  most  successful." 

What  she  says  about  work  she  means.  Work 
is  part  of  her  life. 

She  frets  at  idleness.  Also,  she  doesn't  be- 
lieve that  she  did  it  all  herself. 

"All  depends  on  the  director,"  she  says.  "It 
is  wonderful  to  work  for  a  genius  like  Von 
Sternberg." 

She  isn't  wedded  to  the  movies  for  good.  She 
admits  the  talking  pictures  give  one  great 
opportunities,  but  she  still  has  a  love  for  the 
stage. 

With  a  director  like  Von  Sternberg,  she  feels 
she  could  make  a  hit  on  the  stage  again. 

Her  family  adores  her. 

Her  sceptical  mother  has  long  since  seen 
the  error  of  her  first  view  regarding  her 
daughter's  talent,  but  she  also  takes  success 
calmly. 

In  fact,  she  accepts  it  almost  as  something 
due  a  daughter  of  hers,  and  doesn't  say  much 
about  it. 

She  busies  herself  presiding  over  her  daugh- 
ter's home  during  the  latter's  absence,  and 
taking  care  of  her  granddaughter. 

Herr  Sieber — he's  almost  embarrassed  at  his 
wife's  fame,  however  proud  he  may  be  of  it. 
It  keeps  him  busy  warding  off  innumerable 
requests  for  interviews,  pictures,  invitations 
and  other  burdens  of  fame.  For  Marlene  in- 
sists on  having  her  vacations  to  herself  and 
won't  be  bothered. 

She  doesn't  understand  why  the  world 
should  be  so  much  interested  in  her.  She  feels 
that  everything  that  can  be  said  about  her  has 
already  been  said,  and  she  shies  away  from 
interviews  when  at  home. 

THE  fact  that  she  had  to  submit  to  inter- 
views almost  daily  while  in  America  she 
offers  as  reason  enough  why  she  should  want  to 
spend  her  vacation  at  home  without  this  tor- 
ture, especially  since  she  will  have  to  go  all  over 
it  again  when  she  returns  to  America. 

Uncle  Conrad  is  the  only  one  more  com- 
municative. 

"Of  course,  the  whole  family  is  very,  very 
proud  of  Marlene  and  her  success,"  he  says. 

"But,"  he  adds,  musingly,  "I  wonder 
whether  all  that  makes  people  really  happy. 
Marlene  is  so  terribly  busy  and  she  is  away 
from  her  family  so  much — I  wonder!" 

But  Marlene  isn't  wondering  at  all. 

Marriage  and  a  career? 

Why  should  they  interfere  with  each  other? 

"  I  love  both,"  she  says,  "and  I  am  going  to 
make  a  success  of  both." 


COLORLESS 

as  Water 

yet  this  Liquid 


^ 


*j0 


WHAT  IS  this  peculiar  discovery  that 
has  no  color  itself — yet  imparts  color 
to  Gray  Hair.  It  is  called  KOLOR- 
BAK — a  clean  liquid  already  used  by  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  people  who  know  that 
Gray  Hair  is  a  handicap  in  business  and 
society.  You  simply  comb  Kolor-Bak  into 
your  hair  and  watch  the  gray  disappear — 
gradually,  surely.  Even  your  close  friends 
won't  detect  its  use — until  suddenly  they 
notice  that  you  look  years  younger.  No 
matter  what  your  age — no  matter  if  your 
hair  is  snow  white  or  merely  streaked — 
this  amazing  discovery  will  impart  color.  No 
less  astonishing  than  its  sure,  satisfactory, 
safe  results,  is  the  queer  fact  that  the  very 
same  bottle  of  Kolor-Bak  does  for  Blonde, 
Black,  Brown  or  Auburn.  Why  be  gray? 
Why  be  handicapped?  Why  be  embarrassed 
any  longer?  Get  a  bottle  from  any  druggist 
or  department  store  now  and  if  Kolor-Bak 
doesn't  makeyou  look  lOyears younger,  your 
money  will  be  refunded  any  time  you  ask. 

KOLOR-BAK -Imparts  Color  to  Gray  Hair 


C  #/>  n  into  a  BIG  PAY 
<JlW  HOTEL  JOB/ 


Fascinating  Work — Quick 
Advancement ! 


EARN 

S7.500 
oYEAR 


Hotels,  Apartment  Hotels,  Clubs, 
Restaurants,  Institutions,  Camps. 
Schools.  Colleges,  Hospitals,  etc..  are 
calling  for  Managers,  Assistant  Man- 
agers, Stewards,  Housekeepers.  Pub- 
licity Directors,  Sports  Directors. 
Room  Clerks,  etc.  Qualify  right  athome 
In  spare  time — our  Personal  Coaching 
Plan  adapts  the  training  to  your  per- 
sonal needs  and  requirements.  Past 
experience  unnecessary-  National 
Employment  Bureau  FREE  of  extra 
charge.  Write  for  Free  Book. 
Clifford  Lewis,  Pres. 

LEWIS  HOTEL  TRAINING  SCHOOLS 

Room  DE-894    Washington,  D.  C. 


SHAPED 
^NOSE 


S7.000  men  and 
women  have  used 
the  ANITA  Nose 
Adjusterto  improve 
their  appear- 
ance. Shapes 
flesh  and  car- 
tilage of  the 
nose— quickly,  safely  and  painlessly,  while 
you  sleep  or  work.  Your  age  doesn't  mat- 
ter. Results  are  lasting.  Doctors  praise  it. 
Small  cost.     Money-back  guarantee. 

Send  for  FREE  BOOKLET 
"The  Nose  and  Its  Shape" 

ANITA  INSTITUTE,  D28  Anita  BIdg.,  Newark,  N.  J. 


30  DAYS 

HOME  TRIAL 


I'llOIOI'l  AY     M   U.l/IM      1  OR     Alkll  .1  ] 


The  Shadow  Stage     ONLY      A 


"BIRD" 


133 


OF    THE 


1 


DOCTORS'  \\l\t.s     l,,x 

TP\o("i  ORS' wives  are  supposed  to  be  ■  jc.d- 
^'»i>  let,  l>ut  we  have  oevei  really  believed 

ili.it  they  li.nl  |).utii  ul.ir  < ause  t"  b<      v 

only  half  lonvinitd  now,  but  Warner  li;i\t<  1 
docs  li.ivc  .1  way  with  worm  11  and  Juan  Hen 
nctt  makes  us  feel  her  suspicions  arc  justified 

We  are  glad  tc  varconi  again  as  well 

foho  Sainpolis,  U»th  lini-  actors.     Mild  en- 
ter!.mum  nt 

THE  SINGLE  SIN    Tiffany  Productions 

XJO  I'll  I  N't  I  new  in  the  story  of  a  girl  who 
••^ COmeS  liaek,  bul  tlie  fight  IDC  makes  is  well 
worth  seeim:      K.i\  Johnson  handles  tliis  char 

acta  beautifully  and  Beit  LyteO  i-  good  ■> 

the  drunken  lover.     Mathew  Uct/.  is  a  convim 
ing   heavy   and    I'aul    Hurst,   as    liert"s  dumb 
friend,  gets  the  laughs      An  excellent  picture 
with  drama,  lomedy,  pathos  oi  anything  you 
want. 

THE  CONQUERING  HORDE— 

Paramount 

/TVE  Dick  Arlen  a  riding  outfit  and  a 
^-^horsc  and  a  big  pistol,  and  chances  are 
good  that  he'll  rive  you  back  a  swell  Western 
picture.  Hi's  done  it  again,  with  the  enter- 
taining assistance  of  adorable  Fay  Wray, 
angry  Indians,  villainous-looking  heavies, 
and  a  great  lot  of  cattle  that  swim  rivers  and 
do  things  like  that.  Nice  entertainment  and 
what  more  ask  you? 

THE  GIRL  FROM  THE  REEPERBAHN— 
DAS   MAEDEL    VOX   DER    REEPER- 
BAHN 

Sonor  Production 

A  CAIN"  the  Germans  crash  through  with  a 
•Malkie  that's  out  of  the  ordinary.  This  is 
the  unusual  combination  of  grim  melodrama 
with  a  few  songs,  and  good  ones.  The  story 
tells  of  a  girl  from  the  bright  light  district  of 
Hamburg  thrown  into  the  dull  surroundings 
of  a  lighthouse.  It  has  action,  and  is  well  made, 
if  a  little  dour. 

HELL  BOUXD— 
Cruse-Tiffany  Productions 

HERE'S  another  bootleg-racketeering,  ma- 
chine-gunning gang  picture — and  a  good 
one,  if  you're  not  getting  too  tired  of  them. 
Leo  Carrillo  plays  a  typical  Carrillo  role — the 
broken-Englished  speakeasy  operator  and  rum 
baron — and  manages  to  invest  it  with  a  sym- 
pathetic quality  that  leaves  you  feeling  pretty 
badly  when  he's  finally  bumped  off.  As  the 
girl  in  the  case,  Lola  Lane  is  completely  charm- 
ing. 

CRACKED  MT5- Radio  Pictures 

YWTTEELER  AND  WOOLSEY  suffer  from 
W  a  rush  of  dialogue  to  the  screen.  These 
nut  comedians,  funny  when  they're  in  action, 
aren't  quite  so  amusing  when  they  take  it  out 
in  talk— and  too  much  of  "Cracked  Nuts"  is 
just  that.  However,  you'll  laugh,  anyway,  par- 
ticularly in  the  later  sequences  where  motion 
replaces  gabble.  Edna  May  Oliver  is  funny, 
as  usual,  and  Dorothy  Lee  is  pretty. 

GIRLS  DEMASD  EXCITEMEST—Fox 

V\7E  don't  believe  that  either  girls  or  boys 
W  demand  the  kind  of  excitement  that  is 
offered  in  this  picture.  Its  appeal,  presumably, 
is  to  the  younger  element,  but  we  don't  think 
it  will  satisfy,  as  neither  the  dialogue  nor  the 
acting  rings  true.  A  line  cast.  Marguerite 
Churchill,  John  Wayne,  Virginia  Cherrill,  Wil- 


GILDED   AGE  .   .  .  yet  he  has 

^ATIII.ETirS  FOOT-' 


IT  takes  a  lot  to  worry  this  boy.  He  has 
everything.  Position,  the  finest  of 
friends  and  plenty  of  time  to  enjoy  the  life 
of  leisure.  When  he  follows  the  hounds  he 
docs  it  with  a  field-glass.  His  friends  ride 
his  polo  ponies  and  while  he's  kept  pretty 
busy  entertaining,  his  check  book  does 
most  of  the  work. 

Yes,  he  has  every  thing — including  "  \th- 
Iete's  Foot."  Even  while  taking  his  tub 
this  immaculate  and  gilded  youth  wonders 
where  he  got  that  red  rash  between  the  toes 
of  his  un-athletic  feet,  He'6  almost  ashamed 
to  admit  that  it  i-t-c-h-e-s  and,  while 
Perkin9  raises  sympathetic  eyebrows, 
neither  of  them  even  knows  that  it's  the 
ringworm  infection  which  attacks  people 
in  all  walks  of  life — now  commonly  called 
"Athlete's  Foot." 

Are  YOU  guarding  against  this  stealthy 
infection,  so  easily  tracked  into  homes? 

"Athlete's  Foot"  may  attack  any  of  us  be- 
cause, unlike  most  diseases,  it  persists  in 
the  cleanest  places.  A  tiny  vegetable  para- 
site, tinea  trichophyton,  generally  cans.-, 
tins  ringworm  infection  and  it  thrives  on 
the  edges  of  showers  and  BWnHBHBg  ponli. 
on  locker-  and  dressing -room  floors;  in 
gymnasiums.  And  from  all  these  places  it 


Absorbine 


fO«     YiAIS    MAS    RELIEVED 

SOKE      MUSCLES       MUSCULAR 


ACHES.      OUISES.      1U1NS 
CUTS.     SPRAINS       AIRASIONS 


is  continually  tracked  into  countless  liomrn. 
It  may  live  and  thrive  for  months  in  sour 
own  spick-and-span  bathroom:  and  it 
causes  infection  and  re-infection  with  great 
persistence.  The  U.  S.  Public  Health  Ser- 
vice has  even  reported  that  "probably  half 
of  all  adults  suffer  from  it  at  SOSM  tun,  ■." 

It  has  been  found  that  Absorbine  Jr. 
KILLS  this  rintiicorm  germ 

"Athlete's  Foot"  may  start  in  a  number  of 
different  ways.  Sometime-  the  danger  -i_-. 
nal  is  redness  between  the  tin-s;  sometimes 
tiny,  itching  bli-ter-.  Vg.iin.  the  skin  may 
turn  white,  thick  ami  moi-t:  or  it  m.iv 
develop  dryness,  with  little  scales  or  skin- 
cracks.  All  of  these  conditions,  it  i~  agreed, 
are  generalW  caused  by  the  ringw  orm  germ. 
And  exhaustive  lal>oratory  tests  have 
shown  that  Absorbine  Jr.  penetrate-  (1.  -!  . 
like  tissues  deeply  and  wherever  it  pene- 
trates, it  kills  this  germ.  Remits  in  actual 
cases  confirm  these  laboratory  testa. 

It  might  not  be  a  bad  idea  to  examine 
vonr  feet  tonight  for  symptoms  of  "  Vth- 
lete's  Foot."  At  the  first  si^n  of  any  one 
s\  mptoin.  begin  the  free  use  of  \b-orbine 
Jr. — douse  it  on  morning  and  night  and 
after  errrv  exposure  of  your  bare  fert  on 
damp  floors.  If  the  case  does  n,,t  readily 
yield  to  this  treatment  you  should  see  your 
doctor  without  delay. 

\bsorbine  Jr.  has  been  so  effecti\e  that 
substitutes  are  sometimes  offered.  Don  t 
expect  relief  from  a  "ju-t  a-  good."  There 
is  nothiim  e|s,-  hke  Lbeorbine  Jr.  Ton  can 
get  it  at  all  drug  stores — fL2S  a  Inittle. 
For  a  free  sample,  write  \\  .  I'.  \  onng.  Inc., 
176  Lyman  Street,  Springfield,  Mass. 


PICTURES  THAT  SATISFY 


OR  A   NEW   FILM   FREE! 


Complete  confi- 
dence in  the  won- 
derful results 
obtainable  with 
Agfa  Film  under 
all  conditions 
makes  possible 
this  unusual 
guarantee. 


ALL-WEATHER 


vv 

A  Guarantee  Bond 
With  Every  Roll 
AGFA    ANSCO   OF    BINGHAMTON,    N.  Y. 


FILM 


you  cm, 

BE  BEAUTIFUL/ 

I  do  two  things.  I  correct  every  defect.  I  » 
develop  hidden  beauty.  My  startling  results 
with  more  than  100,000  women  prove  that 
any  one  can  bo  given  beauty.  No  matter  how 
hopeless,  write  me.  My  way  of  making  women 
over  completely  is  amazingly  different.  Thou- 
sands writo  me  that  results  are  almost  beyond 
belief.  Yet  every  Lucille  Young  beauty  aid  is  scientific — known 
to  act  for  all  alike.  That  is  why  I  can  Guarantee  your  absolute 
satisfaction.  Not  a  penny  to  pay  unless  I  give  results  you 
say  are  marvelous. 

be  rid  OF  ,        AMAZINGLY  QUICK 

Pimp  lei.  Freckles  /    -,     .  ...         _  ,  ,  _ 

Blackhead,  Whiteheads   /    ^o  long  waUing   In  a  few  daya  clear 

Coarse  Pores  m     your    s*in»    Lnd    pimples,    freckles. 

Wrinkles  m     klackheada,  whiteheads,  muddy  skin. 

Muddy  Skin        m     oi'y  &in,  dry  skin,  liver  spots,  rougb- 

SaJlownew     /     ness.      redness,     sallow      appearance. 

Thinness    a     *fani3h  wrxnkua.  Reduce  fatlegs,  arms. 

Cji         m     ankles,    your    whole    body.    Or    build 

m     scrawny  figure  to  beauty.  Grow  eye- 

OTPROVE  m      lashes,   eyebrows,   hair.   Beautify  com- 

tyelaiKrs  M      pletely. 

%L    I         FREE  TRIAL 

.  M     You  can  try  all  of  my  beauty  aids— or 

I    ^  S      just  the  ones  you  need  most — absolutely 

f^T    ft    AW      tcilhout  risking  a  penny.  I   want  you   to 

^^^^  U      make  me  prove  that  I  can  take  any  degreo 

M  ^^m  _V       of  homeliness  anil  impart  beauty  instead.  .  . 

Lj  ^  ■       or  take  som«prettinesa  and  impart  stunning 

"flLyf  mm      good  looks.  I  will  send  you  everything  to  try 

j^^jy   M  '      my  beauty  aids  full  two  weeks.  There  are  DO 

^^V^»  XV       conditions,  etrincs,  excuses.  You  are  the  sole 

L.    ■»    ml     judge.  If  not  d.-Hchted,  you  just  say  so — and 

^fc^~  Mm     your  word  is  final. 

Ljt^  B         And  I  Teach  You  Fascination 

"SI.      MW       Your  -physicalbeauty  is  not  all.  I  give  you,  too, 

^S»    Mm       the  innermost  secrets  o(  fascination.  I  discloso 

.      ^  —W      this  priceless  art  in  my  sensational  book  "How 

W        Mm      to  Fascinate  Men."  In  an  hour  you  will  learn 

^a     mm       marvelous  things  you  could  not  discover  your- 

^^k^^B      self  in  a  lifetime.  You  will  learn  how  the  world's 

^H|      [      eirens  make  men  their  helpless  slaves,  learn  to 

^^^S      win  love,  to  control  men,  to  pick  and  choose  at 

^^H      will.  Thcso  secrets  are  fr^o  to  every  woman  with 

Wmj      Acr  free  trial  of  my  beauty  aids.  Rememlter,  you 

I     havo   everything  to   gain — absolutely   nothing   to 

W    lose  So  TODAY— 

}  Send  Coupon  For  Free  Trial  Offer 

I  LUCILLE    Y0UNC.   5SM    Lucille    Younf    Bld?.~l,icafT  UL  "| 

I    Absolutely  without  obligation  on  my  part,  send  your  l 

J    wonderful   FREE    OFFER   and    Booklet.    This   coupon  I 

|   only  tells  you  1  am  interested.  It  does  not  commit  me  I 

Iin  any  way. 

Name I 

|    Street j 

I   City State 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

liam  Janney  and  others,  are  wasted  on  a  poor 

story. 

THE  LITTLE  CAFE  (LE  PETIT  CAFE 
— Paramount 

'"pi  US  is  the  French  version,  Hollywood-made, 
■*■  of  .Maurice  Chevalier's  American  picture, 
"The  Playboy  of  Paris."  And  it's  a  beauty. 
Maurice,  of  course,  expands  in  his  native 
French,  and  more  songs  are  included.  Yvonne 
Yallce  I  Mme.  Chevalier)  is  gay  and  sprightly 
opposite  her  husband.  Frances  Dee  played 
the  part  in  English.  A  very  blithe  and  charm- 
ing picture.  If  you  get  a  chance,  give  your 
French  a  workout  on  it. 

CHARLIE  CHAN  CARRIES  ON— Fox 

TF  you  have  enjoyed  Biggers'  detective  stories, 
•^■you  will  just  revel  in  this,  for  it  is  a  perfectly 
grand  mystery  picture,  with  all  the  thrills, 
coupled  with  a  very  plausible  romance.  War- 
ner Oland  is  marvelous  as  Chan,  and  Warren 
Hymer  and  Marjorie  White  get  many  a  laugh 
as  the  comedy  team.  John  Garrick  and  Mar- 
guerite Churchill  are  the  lovers,  and  a  very 
large  and  able  supporting  cast  unfold  a  fine 
romantic  drama. 

THE  LADY  REFUSES— Radio  Pictures 

"D  OBERT  MILTON  and  Guy  Bolton  de- 
■*-*-cided  to  give  us  our  drama  in  big  doses  in 
this,  and  Betty  Compson,  Gilbert  Emery  and 
John  Darrow  make  it  very  realistic.  However, 
the  story  of  a  father  hiring  one  woman  to  win 
his  son  from  another  is  too  old  for  us  to  get  ex- 
cited over,  but  you  may  just  be  longing  for  a 
good  cry.    Here's  your  chance. 

THE  RIDIN'  FOOL— Tiffany 
Productions 

•"THIS  is  a  great  little  Western  that  will  fur- 
■*-  nish  the  youngsters  plenty  of  thrills.  Rid- 
ing, gun-pulling,  hold-ups.  all  the  necessary  in- 
gredients are  here,  with  Bob  Steele  and  Ted 
Adams  sharing  honors.  The  women  have  little 
to  do,  but  Florence  Turner  gives  her  usual  fine 
performance,  while  Frances  Morris  is  satisfac- 
tory as  the  girl. 

THE    HOLE    IN    THE    WALL    (NAR 
ROSORNA  SLA  UT)— Paramount 

THIS  Swedish  talking  picture  is  reviewed 
here  because  Sven  Gustafsson,  brother  of 
Greta  Garbo,  makes  his  American  debut  in  it. 
He's  a  tall,  limp,  black-haired  boy  with  a  min- 
ute moustache,  and  doesn't  bear  the  faintest 
resemblance  to  his  famous  sister.  And  he's  a 
punk  actor,  if  this  is  a  sample.  The  picture 
tells  a  light,  chatty  love  story.  There's  one 
good  actor  in  the  troupe — an  ugly  gentleman 
named  Uno  Henning. 

THE  LOVE  HABIT— British 
International 

THE  British  conception  of  a  French  bedroom 
farce  that  limps  along  heavily  from  situation 
to  situation.  Weak  direction  makes  the  whole 
thing  pretty  much  of  a  mix-up.  The  laughter 
is  feeble  and  infrequent  here. 

BY  ROCKET  TO  THE  MOON— UFA 

UNLESS  you  are  interested  in  science,  par- 
ticularly astronomy,  you  can  pass  up  this 
German-made  picture.  It's  got  a  romance  of 
sorts,  but  what  kind  of  a  romance  would  you 
expect  in  a  rocket? 

NOT  EXACTLY  GENTLEMEN— Fox 

TOP-NOTCH  entertainment  and  another 
proof  that  he-man  Westerns  are  now  hotter 
than  ever.  The  picture  begins  with  the  excit- 
ing land  rush  in  the  Dakotas.  and  maintains 
excitement  through  three  men's  battles  for  a 
map.  a  girl  I  Fay  Wray)  and  riches.  Victor 
McLaglen.  Lew  Cody  and  Eddie  Gribbon  make 
the  most  of  clever  dialogue,  with  Cody  Winning. 


Qlretty  ^tcrzAi?zci4 
cant  conceal  a  hcrbdle^ 


Trim  ankles  and  shapely  le3S — sheer  hose 
and  modish  shoes  excite  no  more  than  pity 
if  pain  forces  you  to  limp. 

Relieve  this  aching  torment  by  quickly 
removing  the  corn.  Ask  any  druggist  for 
Kohler  One  Night  Corn  Cure  in  its  con- 
venient, modern  35c  package. 

KOHLER  MANUFACTURING  CO. 
Baltimore,  Md. 

Manufacturers  of  KohW  Antido 
i.'-ur;tlcia    and    I 
OCbfti  Di::iple  nerve  paiaa. 


KO  H  LE  R         - 


ON  LE     N  IGHT 


CORN    CURE 


*£Le moves -not  only  relieves  pain 


rW 


QiiickWay  to  COLOR 

ERWLHAII 

'    Discriminating  women  the 
world  over  use  only  B.  Paul's 
Henna  Compound  to     color 
their  gray  hair.   ONE  BRIEF 
APPLICATION    imparts  color 
with  glorious  glints  of  youth. 
Dainty — easy  to  apply  at  home* 
by  anyone.   Try  it — see  what  a 
beautifying  transformation  it  affects.   Never 
affected    by  oils,    tonics,   waving,    previous 
dyes,  Turkish  or  Sea  baths.    Does  not  stain 
scalp,  wash  or  rub  off.  Sold  over  15  years. 
14  Shades,  Black  to  Blonde.  Price  $1.10  P.P. 

B.PAUL'S  WHITE  PASTE  (Formerly Caned) 
"White  Henna"  for  lightening  blonde  hair 
grown  dark.  Price  $2.25  Post  Paid. 
Free  Advice  and  Booklet. 

Mon.B.Paul,Dept4-V,21W.39thSL,N.Y. 


High  School  Course 
in  2  Years 


i 


imide  of  two  y-srs.  ?• 
and  the  trading  profe* 
course*  are  described 


You  can  complex 

this   simplified    H  i  e  1 
School  Course  at  hon 


n  trance   to  college 

d    thirty -«nx     other     practical 

our     free    Bulletin.     Bend    foe    it    TODAY. 


AMERICAN    SCHOOL 

n.irt.  h-«j3.  o,.»«i  >.«.  a  sath  St.      T  AS  1923      Chicago 


DANDRUFF 

LUCKY  TIGER,  world's  largest  — 
'ler  at  Druggists.  Barbers.  Beauty 
Parlors.    Proven  Germicide.  Cor- 
rects dandruff  and  scalp  irrita- 
tions.  Safe  for  adults  and  chil- 
dren.   Money-Back  Guarantee. 


LUCKY  TICER 


HFUL 


"Shame  on  yuV  Are  too  *ert*m*.  er- **- t-*-<iMt*-d  in  com- 
pany of  the  other  sex?  Stop  being  *hy  of  strmnjr*  r  =  .  Cooqoat 
the  terrible/far  of  your  superiors.  Be  cheerful  and  con- 
fident of  your   future!    V'tir   fap'»9   *~«i1y   a«Pn 

von  ci\n   enjoy    lite    to    the   fullest.    Send   25c  foe   this    amazing   book. 

RICHARD     6LACKST0NE,     D-224     FLATlRON     BLDG.,      NEW      YORK 


Pbotoplai  Magazine  fob    Vi 


»35 


THE  DRUMS  OF  II  OP  IRD1 
I'rixliu  Horn 


I  iffany 


THIS  title  will  confuse  yon  but  when  we  till 
you  thai  it  refers  to  .1  prt  elesa  rubj 
lace,  fou  will  be  prepared  for  what  foUowi 
There  is  .1  murder  In  any  spot  you  i  boose,  with 
■  mystery  melodrama  satisfying  to  tin 
bloodthirsty  A  good  cast  includes  Warner 
Oland  and  June  CoUyer. 

THE  WDNIGHT  SPECIAL— 
Chesterfield  Production 

A N01  ill  K  formula  nlm.  Telegraph  oner 
.itor  in  love  with  girL  Villain  also  in  love 
with  her,  rrain  robberies.  I  abe  accusations. 
And  things  like  that  But  it  Isn't  badly  done 
and  Glenn  Tryon  and  Merna  Kennedy  make 
a  friendly  enough  pair,  with  Mary  Can  her 
usual  motherly  self.    The  whole  thing,  even 

the  title,  is  as  familiar  as  an  old  tune,  hut  the 
kids  will  like  it. 


Irene's  Secret 
Marriage 

|  roxriM  i  D  tKOM  PAG]  35  1 


just  come   to  Xew  York   from   the   Chicago 
Musical  College  and  was  Staying  with  friends 

while  Job-hunting. 

When  he  asked  her  to  marry  him  anil  then 
announced  that  his  wife  couldn't  work — she 
didn't  see  him  any  more.  She  realized  he  had 
the  old  New  England  inhibition  about  Stage 
people. 

The  lead  in  the  eighth  road  company  of 
"Irene"  sent  her  on  the  road  for  forty  weeks. 

At  the  end  of  those  fortyweeks  she  returned, 
more  determined  than  ever  that  B  man  should 
not  swerve  her  from  her  determined  love  for 
her  profession. 

But  back  in  Xew  York.  Ah — Irene  Dunne 
found  that  she.  too,  was  only  a  woman.  She 
found  work,  easily.  Hut  she  also  found  she  had 
a  heart  which  could  miss  beats  and  never  seem 
to  catch  them  again.  After  all,  what  did  work 
matter? 

You've  seen  it  happen  again  and  again.  A 
woman  in  love — Irene  Dunne  had  fallen  in  love 
in  spite  of  herself.  There  was  only  one  thing  to 
do.    She  became  Mrs.  Griffin. 

Nor  has  it  been  easy  in  Hollywood,  either. 
When  the  offer  came  so  many  commented:  "To 
Hollywood  alone;  into  pictures;  it  will  only  be 
a  matter  of  time — " 

AND  the  rumors  that  always  encircle  a 
Hollywood  woman.  "Who  is  the  lucky 
suitor5  Who's  Irene  Dunne's  boy  friend? 
How  did  she  get  such  a  break  as  'Cimarron'? — " 
Irene  didn't  like  them.  But  she  bided  her 
time  and  said  nothing. 

Their  telephone  calls  while  she  was  away 
averaged  about  seven  hundred  dollars  monthly. 
Every  night  they  talked  across  the  miles.  And 
after  "Cimarron"  opened  in  Xew  York — Irene 
says : 

'  He  went  with  a  party  of  twelve.  After  it 
was  over,  he  went  into  a  room,  alone,  and  tele- 
phoned me.  When  he's  excited  he  doesn't  get 
boisterous  or  loud.  His  voice  gets  deep  and 
throaty. 

"It  was  so  deep  that  night  I  could  scarcely 
understand  what  he  was  saying."  Tears  came 
to  her  eyes. 

"Oh,  it's  grand  to  be  married  and  grand  to 
be  able  to  talk  about  it.  I'm  so  grateful  to 
Photoplay  for  discovering  it.  If  he  hadn't 
been  willing  I  shouldn't  have  come  to  Holly- 
wood." 

Strangely  enough,  we  old  Hollywood  cynics 
believe  in  this  marriage.  We  believe  it's  here 
to  stay  and  no  heights  of  fame  to  which  the 
wife  can  go  will  matter  to  either  the  wife  or  the 
husband. 


An    I  nn  ova  I  ion 


hafl  Banishes  C  halmy  and  Discomfort 

Irom   \\  omen  s   I  ly^iene 


The   Most   Talked    About    Hygienic   Aid   for  Womei 


»  © 


of    the    Day — Brings   New    Poise    and    Comfort 


Jva 


pure  jvaijon 

CELLULOSE    FILLED 

Soft  and  Gentle  as  Fluffed 
Silk— Effective 3  Times  Longer 

There  is  now  an  utterly  new  and  totally 
different  hygiene  for  women. 
Not  merely  another  sanitary  pad,  but  an 
invention  of  world-wide  importance. 
An  entirely  new  kind  of  sanitary  napkin 
made  possible  by  a  new  mechanical  inven- 
tion. It  is  Xew  in  design.  Xew  in  mate- 
rial. Xew  and  remarkable  in  the  results 
that  it  gives. 

Women  by  the  thousands  are  discarding 
other  type  sanitary  methods  and  adopt- 
ing it.  For  it  has  two  distinct  advantages — 
advantages  that  have  never  before  been 
offered  to  women. 

Ends  All  Chafing  — 
All  Irritations! 

Made  under  rigid  U.  S.  Patents,  it  is  pure 
Rayon  cellulose  filled.  And  as  gentle  as 
fluffed  silk. 

This  softness  comes  l>ecause  of  its  totally 
Xew  construction  — as  well  as  its  rayon 
cellulose  filler — as  you  will  note  the  mo- 
ment you  see  it  and  compare  it  with 
any  other  pad.  You  see  at  once  why  it  is 
preferable. 

Once  the  average  woman  tries  one,  she 
never  goes  back  to  old  ways.    Its  name  is 


Yeldown.  Most  stores  can  now  supply  yoo. 
Effective  Hours  Longer 

It  also  has  another  important  feature.  77  is 
absolutely  immaculate  for  the  reason  that  the 
outer  side  has  been  specially  treated  to  make 
it  moisture  proof  and  impenetrable. 

This  innovation  makes  Yeldown  5  or  more 
times  more  absorbent  than  other  sanitary- 
methods.  And  it  gives  Complete  Safety 
and  protection  Horns  Longer  than  other 
ways.  Hence  a  danger  that  every  woman 
carries  in  her  mind  is  absolutely  eliminated. 
And  no  other  protective  garments  are  nec- 
essary. 

It  is  specially  treated  .nth  a  deodorant  of 
great  power — and  thus  ends  even  slighu-t 
danger    of    embarrassment.     Discard- 
course,  easily  as  tissue. 

Accept  Trial 

Go  today  to  any  drug  or  department  store. 
Obtain  a  box  of  Yeldown.  Use  six.  Then 
—if  you  don't  feel  that  it  is  a  Vast  and 
Great  Improvement  on  any  other  pad  you 
have  ever  worn,  return  it— and  receive 
your  full  purchase  price  back. 
Yeldown  Company,  Inc.,  220  East  42nd 
Street,  Xew  York  City.  One  of  the  Divi- 
sions of  the  International  Paper  &  Power 
Company.  162-v 


FOR    EVERY    WOMAN 


A  LOVELY  COMPLEXION  ...  the  glow 


of  youth  from  a  clear,  clean  skin  .  .  . 
yours  if  you  gently  cleanse  the  pores 
morning  and  night  with  Krank  Lemon 
Cleansing  Cream.  Unmatched  product... 
A  universal  favorite  . . .  liquefies  instantly 
. . .  penetrates  deeply . . .  dissolves  impuri- 
ties .  .  .  cleanses  thoroughly.  Unequalled 
at  any  price.  $1  for  a  4  oz.  jar . . .  Follow 
it  with  Krank  Astringent  Lotion,  so 
delightful  for  firming  the  skin  . . .  Menthol- 
Lemon  Foundation  Cream,  the  perfect 
powder  base . . .  and  the  softer,  smoother, 


clinging   Poudre   Krank...  5  shades. 


Send   50c  in   stomps  for    lovely   3-piece 
Acquaintance    Set    and   new    Beauty 
Book,  '  Captivating  Loveliness."  Write 
Depl.    87,        Kronk   Toiletries,     1885 
University  Avenue,  Saint  Paul,  Minn. 


VC7/7/C  (cleansing) 

LO10N  C&MTi 


HERE'S   A   BOAT  YOU 
WON'T  HAVE  TO  CAULK/ 


Even  though  she's  been  stored  for  the  win- 
ter, you  slide  your  Old  Town  over  —  hopi 
aboard  —  and  go  right  away!  She  won't 
need  to  be  soaked  or  caulked.  The  heavy, 
non-leak  canvas-covering  can't  open  up. 
Nor  docs  an  Old  Town  shimmy,  sbake  or 
vibrate.  And  the  stern  is  braced  at  every 
angle,  so  a  heavy-weight  motor  won't  harm 
it.  Net  an  Old  Town  is  light  —  easy  to 
handle  —  and  has  all  the  speed  you  want. 
Free  catalog  shows  prices  and  models. 
Also  canoes;  rowboats ;  dinghies;  big,  fast, 
seaworthy,  all-wood,  outboard  family-boats, 
.ind  speedy  step-planes.  Write  today.  Old 
Town  Canoe  Co.,  224  Main  Street,  Old 
Town,   Maine. 

'Old  Town  Boats " 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

Love  Is  Expensive 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  34  ] 

be  published  the  day  of  the  wedding!  And  he's 
so  handsome!    It's  just  too  much,  isn't  it?" 

"Yes,  isn't  it!"  murmured  Mary  Leeds. 
Madame  de  Longpre  guided  her  away  through 
the  gate. 

"After  all,  my  dear,  a  marriage  like  this  is 
absolutely  the  most  even  you,  with  your  suc- 
cess, could  hope  for!  The  Princess  Saranoff! 
Really  doesn't  it  sound  thrilling,  my  love!" 

"Yes — doesn't  it!" 

Johnny  Haversmith  watched  them  cross  the 
drawing  room;  saw  the  Prince  and  a  dozen 
millionaires  come,  like  a  Little  tide,  to  meet 
them! 

"Sleep  baby  slee — cep,"  yodeled  Columbus 
raspingly,  and  hoisted  himself  into  the  tree 
again. 

"L-TAYERSMITH  arranged  his  tripod,  his 
■*■  -Opiates,  and  his  camera  lights.  Dorothy 
Denver  arrived — and  Mr.  Dupont. 

And  the  photograph  was  made  of  the 
celebrated  company — and  the  stairs — and  the 
ivory  Buddha   .    .    . 

And  then,  while  the  lank  Mr.  Haversmith 
was  packing  his  things,  he  was  once  more  aware 
of  the  presence  of  Mary  Leeds! 

"I  think  I  dropped  a  green  lace  handker- 
chief," she  said.    He  helped  her  look  for  it. 

"You  were  silly  to  go  on  another  picture, 
when  I  made 'Saints  and  Sinners,'"  she  said,  as 
they  looked  for  the  bit  of  lace.  "I  thought 
you'd  come  back.    Why  didn't  you?" 

She  caught  the  lapels  of  his  coat  so  he  had  to 
look  squarely  down  at  her.  "  Why  didn't  you?" 
she  demanded.  "You're  absolutely  the  best 
cameraman  I  ever  had!  I  wanted  you  to  come 
back!" 

It  was  like  a  pain  to  him — that  fragrance, 
that  softness  of  her  hair  so  close  to  his  lips! 

"You  should  be  able  to  understand  why  I 
didn't  come  back,"  he  said  steadily. 

"Well,  I  don't  understand,"  she  told  him. 
"  I  thought  you  liked  me.  You  used  to  like  me ! 
At  least  you  used  to  give  me  all  the  camera 
breaks.  I  don't  get  any  now  .  .  .  I  wish  you'd 
come  back!" 

She  wished  he'd  come  back — to  give  her  the 
camera  breaks! 

"There's  a  gypsy  here  telling  fortunes,"  she 
said.  "Why  don't  you  ask  her  if  you  should 
come  back  on  my  picture?"  She  shivered  a 
little,  and  was  suddenly  serious.  "I'm  fright- 
fully afraid  of  gypsies!"  she  said.  "I  believe 
everything  they  say!  I  think  it's  true  that  all 
your  life  is  written  in  your  hand.  I  always  do 
exactly  what  they  tell  me!  Let's  go  and  ask  if 
you  shouldn't  come  back  to  my  picture — and 
if  I  should  marry  the  Prince." 

In  the  drawing  room,  Benny  London  caught 
up  a  woman's  spangled  train,  and  wrapped  it 
around  his  waist — caught  another  one  around 
his  shoulders,  and,  dragging  the  pair  of  shriek- 
ing women  after  him,  he  minced  across  the 
room,  imitating  a  tipsy  dowager.  Amusement 
slightly  stirred  the  crowd. 

BENNY'S  doing  his  parlor  trick,"  Mary 
said,  without  looking.  She  stood  watch- 
ing the  pool.  She  had  forgotten  tlie  handker- 
chief she  had  come  to  find! 

"He  thinks  it's  always  good,"  she  said.  "In 
a  minute  Polly  Loftus  will  do  a  shimmy 
imitation  of  Eliza  crossing  the  ice  and  by  that 
time  the  (rappi  has  been  around  four  times  and 
everybody  is  asking  somebody  why  they 
shouldn't  marry  and  get  headlines!  Best  buy 
you  can  get  for  the  money!  A  wedding  and 
divorce  is  good  for  a  year's  space  and  cheaper 
than  any  press  agent!" 

In  the  ballroom  on  the  second  floor,  a  jazz 
band  started  to  play.  A  voice  trailed  down- 
stairs moaning  a  senseless  rhythm.  Mary 
watched  the  checkerboard  of  tuxedos  and  bare 
white  shoulders  begin  to  sway  and  weave,  men 


Y\ot>tS 


Ease 


Cold  in  Head, 
Chest  or  Throat? 

RUB  Musterole  well  into  your  chest  and 
■  throat — almost  instantly  you  feel  easier. 
Repeat  the  Musterole-rub  once  an  hour  for 
five  hours  .  .  .  what  a  glorious  relief! 

Those  good  old-fashioned  cold  remedies — 
oil  of  mustard,  menthol,  camphor— are  mixed 
with  other  valuable  ingredients  in  Musterole 
to  make  it  what  doctors  call  a  ''counter- 
irritant"  because  it  gets  action  and  is  not 
just  a  salve. 

It  penetrate*  and  stimulates  blood  circula- 
tion and  helps  to  draw  out  infection  and  pain. 
Lsed  by  millions  for  20  years.  Recommended 
by  many  doctors  and  nurses.  Keep  Musterole 
handy — jars,  tubes.    All  druggists. 

To  Mothers— Musterole  is  also  made 
in  milder  form  for  babies  and  small 
children.  Ask  for  Children's  Musterole. 


PBRTTY  ANKLES  $J.^ 

AND    CALVESf      pe*pair 

DR.    WALTER'S   Special    extra 
strong  Ankle  Bands  of  live  flesh 
colored  Para  Rubber  will  support 
and  shape  the  ankle  and  calf  while 
reducing  them.  Made  of  pure  Para 
rubber.  They  tit  like  a  glove.  Can  be 
wornunderany  kind  of  hose.  Relieves 
swelling  and   varicose   veins.    You 
can  note  the  difference  In  shape  of 
ankle  at  once.    Can  be  worn  at 
night  and  reduce  while  you  sleep. 
or  during  the  day  deriving  the 
tra  benefit  of  the  support. 

Write  for  Dr.  Walter's  Special 

An.le    Bands  for  S3. 76.  layby 
check  or  money  order  (do  cash)  or 
pay  postman. 

Send  Ankle  and  Calf  measure  to 

DR.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER 
389  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 


tuctnjh  rjicjiuhticr 

Instantly  transforms  lashes  into  a 
dark,  rich  luxuriant  fringe  of  love- 
liness. Lends  sparkling  bril- 
liance and  shadowy,  invit- 
ing depth  to  the  eyes.  The 
easiest  eyelash  beauti6er  to 
apply  . . .  Perfectly  harmless. 
Used  by  tbousands.Try  it.  Sol- 
id or  waterproof  Liquid  May- 
bolline.  Black  or  Brown,  75c 
at  all  toilet  goods  counters. 
MAYBE LLINE  CO.,  CHICAGO 


gasEJEEsgEgniiEia 

Particulars  of  Dr.  Esenwein's  famous  forty - 
lesson  course  in  writing  and  marketing  of  the 
Short-Story  and  sample  copy  of  The  Wbiieb's 
Monthly  free.    Write  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL 
itBawU    Dept  95,  Springfield,  Mass* 


Subscribe  for  PHOTOPLAY. 
Use  the  Coupon  on  Page  143. 


Photoplay  Magazine 


April,  i     i 


■  hawing    the   ft'omrn   i  lo-er.   thrir   fa<  e-.,   their 
lip-,  i lo-er  ' 

She  tuned  sodden!)  tojohnn)  Raversmith. 

'You  h.ivc  .1  car,   haven't  you?     you're 

leaving,  aren'l  you?    WB1  you  t.ikt-  me  with 

\oll  ' 

||]  cart  .l  lord,"  Johnny  Haversmitli  told 
lit  r  .  .  .  "Do  you  want  DM  to  take  you — in  a 
For* 

•\\h>  mi  in  a  Ford?  "she  asked.  "Wait  for 
me  outside  by   the  gypsy   tint — but  don't 

.  r!  I  hear  de  Longprfs  spangles  bringing 
the  Prince  to  hud  me! " 

Little  noise  like  falling  rain! 

■  ■  M.iry.  my  love,  when-  have  you  been! 
We've  been  searching  the  lionu  for  you!"  the 

lid     hostess     fussed     a     little     tearfully. 

"You're  missing  seeing   Polly   Loftus  do  a 
simply  fcreatmag  thing  about  EH  a/" 

"You  are  my  heart!"  the  Prince  said  ten- 
derly, and  lifted  her  lingers  to  hi-  lips  and 
kissed  them.  "Life,  even  for  live  minute-, 
cannot  go  on  without  you!" 

■  \  on  don't  sayt"  rasped  Columbus,  "God 
gave  the  King!" 


TN  a  tent  on  the  terraced  lawn,  in  shifting 
J-circles  of  light,  a  tire  smoldering  under  crane 
and  kettle,  Zura  waited  for  palm--  in  which  to 

find  fortunes     She  sat  cm--  legged  on  the 

ground,  old  and  fat.  rumpled  braids  and  cheap 
I  eads  breathing  with  her  fat,  thick  breast,  her 
head  tied  in  >carlet,  gold  rings  jangling  in  her 

can 

Across  the  tent,  a  pepper  tree  made  an  em- 
broidered pattern.  Zara  smoked  a  cigar  and 
■raited  for  some  one  to  want  a  fortune. 

Johnny  Haversmith  crossed  the  lawn. 

"Have  they  had  supper  vet?"  Zara  asked 
him.     "What  are  they  doing?    Who  is  there?" 

Her  voice  was  like  the  parrot's,  croaking  and 
rusty      He  didn't  answer. 

"  What  ails  you?"  she  called  at  him  sharply. 
"Can't  you  answer  civil  questions?" 

He  .-topped  and  looked  at  her.  Light  and 
shadow  streaked  his  tawny  hair  and  angular 
face. 

"Listen,"  he  said,  "a  little  girl  in  a  white 
lace  dress   is  going   to   meet    me   here!     She's 


April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 
April 


April 
Birthdays 

1 — Wallace  Beery 

1 — Harry  Green 

1 — Leon  Janney 

1 — Dorothy  Revier 

6 — Walter  Huston 

6 — J.  C.  Nugent 

7 — Gavin  Gordon 

8— Yola  D'Avril 

8— Mary  Pickford 

0 — Thomas  Meighan 

9 — Carmel  Myers 
10 — George  Arliss 
10— Tim  McCoy 
10 — Nick  Stuart 
12 — Virginia  Cherrill 
13— TuUy  Marshall 
14 — Claire  Windsor 
16 — Charles  Chaplin 
16 — I'iti  Dors.iv 
I1' — Lina  Basquette 
1(> — Constance  Talmadge 
20— Fred  Kohler 
20— Harold  Lloyd 
24 — Marccline  Day 
24— Cyril  Maude  " 
26 — Dorothy  Sebastian 
26 — Guinn  i  Big  Hoy    Williams 
27 — George  K.  Arthur 
28 — Lionel  Barrymore 
28 — Bryant  Washburn 
->0 — David  Manners 


Gives  Your  Hair  an 
Alluring  Loveliness 

unobtainable  by  ordinary  washing, 

Whv  proper  shampooing  gives  your  hair  added 
eharni  —  and  leaves  it  soft  and  silkv.  sparkling 


with  life,  "loss  and  lustre. 


THERE  is  nothing  so  captivating  as 
beautiful  hair. 
Soft,  lovely,  alluring  hair  has  al- 
ways been   IRRESISTIBLE. 

Fortunately,  l>eautiful  hair  depends,  al- 
most entirely,  upon  the  way  you  shampoo  it. 

A  thin,  oily  film,  or  coating,  isconstantly 
forming  on  the  hair.  If  allowed  to  remain, 
it  catches  the  dust  and  dirt — hides  the  life 
and  lustre  — and  the  hair  then  becomes  dull 
and  unattractive. 

Only  thorough  sham- 
pooing will  remove  this 
hlmandletthcsparkleand 
the  rich,  natural  color 
tones  of  the    hair  show. 

Washing  with  ordinary 
soap  fails  to  satisfactorily 
remove  this  film,  because 
—it  docs  not  cleanse  the 
hair  properly. 

Besides — the  hair  can- 
not stan  d  the  harsh  effect 
of  ordinary  soaps.  The 
free  alkali  in  ordinary 
soaps,  soon  dries  the 
scalp,  makes  the  hair 
brittle  and  ruins  it. 

That  is  why  women, 
by  the  thousands,  who 
value  beautiful  hair,  use 


Mulsified  Cocoanut  Oil  Shampoo.  It  cleans 
so  thoroughly ;  is  so  mild  and  so  pure,  that  it 
cannot  nossibly  injure,  no  matter  how  often 
you  use  it. 

Two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  Mulsified 
in  a  glass  or  pitcher  with  a  little  warm  water 
added,  makes  an  abundance  of  .  .  .  soft, 
rich,  creamy  lather  .  .  .  which  cleanses 
thoroughly  and  rinses  out  easily,  removing 
with  it  every  particle  of  dust,  dirt  and 
dandruff. 

You  will  notice  the 
difference  in  your  hair 
the  very'  first  time  you 
use  Mulsified,  for  it  will 
feel  so  delightfully  clean, 
and  be  so  soft,  silky, 
and  fresh-looking. 

Try  a  "Mulsified 
Shampoo"  and  see  how 
your  hair  will  sparkle — 
with  new  life,  gloss  and 
lustre.  See  how  easy  ir 
will  be  to  manageand  hov 
lovely  and  alluring  your 
hair  will  look. 

You  can  get  Mulsified 
Cocoan  ut  Oil  Shampooat 
any  drug  store  or  toilet 
goods  counter — anywhere 
in  the  world. 

MULSIFIED  COCOANUT  OIL  SHAMPOO 


*3: 


ALICE  WHITE-POPULAR  STAR 


She  is  too  clever  to  let  drab,  dull 
hair  spoil  her  attractiveness.  Her  hair 
is  always  soft,  lustrous,  radiant  with  tiny 
dancing  lights  —  the  subject  of  much 
admiration— and  not  a  little  envy.  She 
wouldn't  think  of  using  ordinary  soaps. 
She  uses  Golden  Glint  Shampoo. 

"Note:  Do  not  confine  this  with  other  shampoos  that 
merely  cleanse.  Golden  Glint  in  addition  to  cleansing, 
gives  your  hair  a  fashionable  "tiny-tint"— a  wee  little 
bit— not  much  —  hardly  perceptible.  But  ho-w  it  does 
bring  out  the  truebeauty  of  your  own  individualshade 
of  hair!  25c  at  your  dealers' '  —  or  a  FREE  sample 
will  show  you  the  difference.     Send  for  it  now! 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

afraid  of  gypsy  fortunes.  She'll  believe  any- 
thing you  say!  Tell  her  there  is  a  man  who 
hasn't  any  money  who  loves  her.  Tell  her  he 
will — ask  her  to  marry  him,  and  if  she  says 
'  Yes,'  he  will  make  her  happy." 

"And  I  should  describe  that  man  to  be  you," 
the  gypsy  croaked,  and  Hashed  a  smile  of  white 
teeth  and  scarlet  lips. 

He  brought  his  hand  out  of  his  pocket  and 
crowded  a  few  crumpled  bills  into  her  lingers. 

"All  right,"  she  said,  and  lifted  her  shoulders 
in  that  little  gesture  for  which  there  are  no 
words.  "  Bring  her  here  and  I  will  make  her 
believe  it." 

J  le  went  on  after  the  Ford.  Out  through  the 
garden,  hung  with  Chinese  lanterns,  wound  the 
snake-dance  of  a  laughing  hilarious  crowd, 
paper  caps,  paper  whistles,  paper  streamers 
hanging  out  of  the  trees! 


i  e;i:i: 


J.  W.  KOBI  CO.,   630    Rainier  Ave.,  Dept.  D 
Seattle,  Wash.    •   *  •   •    Please  send  a  freesample. 

Name 


Address 
City 


.State- 


Color  of  my  hair 


PP*^   HOME 


Lincoln  did  it!  Also  thousands  of  othf>r 
Kreat  lawyers,  politicans  and  business 
men.  YOU.  too,  can  become  a  lawyer  or 
law  trained  business  man  throutfh  home 
study  guided  by  the  successful  practicing 
lawyers  of  our  faculty.  Write  today  lor 
free  book. 

American  Corr.  School  of  Law,  3601 
Michigan  Ave.,  Dept.  1484*  Chicago 


(7j\>"    FROM  THIS 

FREE  GUIDE 

TO  THE 

WEST 

A  valuable  aid  in 
planning  a  vacation 
— describes  briefly 
the  many  National 
Parks  and  other 
Western  vacation 
regions  reached  by 
the  Union  Pacific. 
This  book  is  free — 
send  coupon,  post 
card  or  letter. 

Mr.  J    I'.  Cummins,  Room  95 

Union  Pacific  System.  Omaha.  Neb. 

Please  send  me  "Western  Wonderlands"  'no  obligation) 

Name 

Addret     ... 

Citv --  State -- 

If  student  state  rradr 


A/fARV  LEEDS!  The  sun,  moon  and  stars 
■'■'■'■of  Hollywood  shining  for  Mary  Leeds! 
But  when  love  for  her  had  first  begun  to 
possess  Johnny  Haversmith,  she  had  been  just 
the  waif  in  "Jean  Valjean";  just  the  harlot  in 
"Hell's  Wilderness,"  shy,  and  strange  on  the 
lot,  coming  to  stay  near  his  camera  while  she 
wasn't  working. 

And  it  had  begun  to  be  all  he  wanted  of  a 
day — for  her  to  come;  her  voice  to  be  where 
he  would  hear  it! 

Then  overnight  her  name  was  suddenly 
everywhere!  The  little  girl  who  could  make 
you  laugh;  could  make  you  cry!  Could  break 
your  heart,  could  make  you  remember  or  for- 
get! Every  company  was  suddenly  trying  to 
buy  her!  Every  exhibitor  clamoring  for  her! 
Overnight  she  was  a  star!  Her  salary  written 
in  thousands  instead  of  in  tens! 

She  was  surprised — a  little.  But  in  Holly- 
wood there  are  no  surprises.  As  you  walk, 
without  wonder,  through  the  fantastic,  im- 
possible by-roads  of  dreams,  so  you  live  the 
caprices  of  Hollywood! 

Mary  became  mistress  of  a  mansion  in  the 
purple  hills;  rode  in  her  imported  limousine, 
found  herself  regarding  an  array  of  hearts  and 
bank-books  offered  on  silver  salvers!  And  she 
never  knew  that  on  a  street  where  little  pale 
pink  houses,  and  lavender  houses,  and  yellow 
houses  stood  like  cup  cakes  and  puddings  on  a 
shelf,  Johnny  Haversmith,  while  she  had  still 
been  the  waif  of  "Jean  Valjean,"  had  bought 
a  bungalow!  She  never  knew  about  those 
little  hinged  windows,  the  open  patio  built 
around  a  pair  of  shaggy,  serious,  old-men 
palms!  And  lean  Johnny  Haversmith  grew  a 
little  leaner,  tried  to  avoid  her,  tried  desper- 
ately to  forget  her!  The  palms  grew  ragged; 
the  sign  "  For  Sale,"  a  little  more  limp  with 
every  passing  wind ! 

And  then  at  Madame  de  Longprc's  she  was 
near  him  again!  Laughing  at  him — tucking  a 
tlower  into  his  buttonhole  again !  And  he  knew 
he  could  never  forget!  He  knew  if  there  was  a 
way  in  the  world  to  have  her,  he  would  take  it, 
fair  or  foul! 


T_TE  drove  the  blue  Ford  down  de  Longpre's 
■*-  ■'■road  along  the  garden  wall.  Beyond  the 
terraces  he  heard  the  clamorous  crowd  in  the 
garden.  In  the  pepper  grove  he  saw  the  light 
of  the  gypsy  tent. 

He  left  the  car  and  went  to  find  Mary.  She 
came  to  meet  him  across  the  lawn. 

"Let  me  tell  the  little  lady's  fortune?"  Zara 
called  out  to  them.  "The  planets  write  strange 
things!" 

"Shall  we  stop?"  Mary  said. 

In  the  shifting  yellow  light  Zara  held  Mary's 
hand  palm  upward  in  her  own. 

"To  your  house  I  see  happiness,"  the  gypsy 
told  her.  "A  man  who  is  tall.  His  eyes  are — " 
she  studied  the  hand  closely — "they  are  blue 
and  they  are  gray!  He  loves  you.  He  is  not 
handsome.  He  has  no  money.  But  if  you 
want  happiness,"  she  flashed  the  smile  of  red 
lips  and  white  teeth — "he  is  the  one  you  must 
marry!    That  is  what  your  Fate  reads!    You 


will  be  with  him  soon" — she  looked  closely  at 
the  hand  in  hers — "very  soon"  .  .  . 

So  Mary  I^eeds  and  just  a  cameraman  drove 
away  from  one  of  the  famous  dinners  of 
Madame  de  Longprc — down  a  wide  white 
boulevard. 

"V\  7ELL,"  Mary  said,  and  laughed  a  little, 

W  "my  Fate  seems  to  be  you,  Johnny!" 

"One  thing  she  said  is  certainly  true,"  he 
told  her.  "  I  love  you.  I  have  loved  you  since 
almost  the  first  time  I  saw  you." 

"Really,"  she  said,  and  cuddled  her  head 
into  the  satin  depth  of  her  chinchilla.  "  Fancy 
that!  .  .  .  Where  are  we  going?  .  .  .  I'm 
starving!  If  you  knew  what  I  want  you'd 
laugh  at  me!  I  want  eggs  fried  in  butter!  The 
kind  you  can't  buy!  We  could  go  to  my  house 
and  cook  them,  only  I'm  afraid  someone  will 
look  for  me  when  they  find  I've  left  the  party. 
.  .  .  Why  can't  we  go  to  your  house?" 

"How  do  you  know  I  have  a  house?"  he 
asked  her. 

"Somebody  told  me,"  she  said.  "I  don't 
know  who." 

"I  live  there  because  I  don't  know  what  to 
do  with  it,"  he  said,  "but  there's  nothing  in  it." 

"There's  a  stove  and  a  frying  pan,  isn't 
there?"  she  insisted. 

They  went  to  Johnny's  bungalow.  There 
was  little  wore  than  a  stove  and  a  frying  pan! 
Two  chairs — a  kitchen  table,  some  dishes  and 
Johnny's  ties  and  collars  on  the  mantel.  .  .  . 

"I  don't  suppose  you've  got  a  kitchen 
apron,"  she  said.    "  Give  me  a  pa  jama  jacket ! " 

She  tied  it,  by  the  sleeves,  around  her  lace 
dress. 

She  fried  eggs  in  butter,  and  made  toast,  and 
set  the  kitchen  table.  She  made  coffee  and 
burned  her  hand  on  the  coffee  pot.  Johnny 
remembered  his  grandmother  had  told  him  to 
scrape  a  raw  potato  on  a  burn.  He  scraped  a 
raw  potato  on  her  finger,  and  wrapped  a  band- 
age around  it  awkwardly. 

"This  will  be  an  adorable  house,  Johnny," 
she  said,  "when  I  get  to  work  at  it!  We'll  have 
a  green  kitchen,  if  you  don't  mind.  I've 
always  wanted  a  green  kitchen  .  .  .  don't  look 
at  me  as  though  Gabriel  is  blowing  his  horn!  I 
told  you  I'm  afraid  of  gypsies!  I  told  you  I 
believe  what  they  tell  me!  And  you'll  certainly 
ask  me  to  marry  you  after  what  that  gypsy 
said!  And  I  certainly  will  be  afraid  to  say 
'no'  !  " 

So  here  it  was!  Little  Mary  Leeds,  whose 
answer  he  had  bought  from  a  gypsy!  Here  it 
was — and  he  couldn't  take  it!  Who,  after  all, 
but  a  rat  will  take  a  pot  he  has  won  with  an  ace 
in  his  sleeve! 

He  loved  her!  God  only  knew  how  much! 
Too  much  to  play  a  crooked  hand. 

He  had  everything  to  take,  and  nothing  to 
give.  There  was  no  way  he  could  do  it  and  be 
fair! 

He  shut  his  fingers  over  hers,  wrapped  in  the 
clumsy  bandage. 

"  .Mary,  I  wouldn't  live  on  money  of  yours," 
he  said  huskily.  "And  that's  what  it  would 
be." 

"But  I  wouldn't  have  any  money,"  she  told 
him.  "I'd  be  keeping  house!  I  don't  want  to 
work  in  pictures!  It's  the  hardest  work  I  ever 
did!" 

She  looked  up  at  lean,  lank  Johnny  Haver- 
smith, her  hair  rumpled  from  the  grave  concern 
of  fried  eggs  and  toast  and  coffee.  "And  the 
gypsy  said  I'd  be  happy!  What  more  do  I  want 
than  to  be  happy,  Johnny!" 

"T  ET  me  tell  you  something,"  Johnny  said 
■'-'shortly.  "I  paid  that  gypsy  ten  dollars  to 
say  what  she  did!  I  thought  I  could  let  myself 
get  away  with  it.  But  I'm  telling  you  now,  I 
paid  her  ten  dollars  to  say  I  was  the  man  you 
should  marry.     So  forget  it!" 

The  exquisite  person  in  Johnny  Haver- 
smith's  kitchen  caught  at  her  heart  with  that 
hand  in  a  raw  potato  bandage — 

"Johnny,  you  didn't,"  she  said  weakly — 
then  suddenly  she  was  as  lost  in  his  arms  as  the 
babes  were  lost  in  the  woods — "but  /  paid  her 
ten  dollars  to  say  the  same  thing!" 


Photopi  ai  Mac  izini  fob    \nn  .  I     I 


Brief  Reviews  of 
Current  Pictures 

[  ids riNi  ii 


Kl   Mill  I       c    ON  I  Ui>l         M   G    \l         Bill)      >' 
I  OVCl  look. 

RINBGADBS  i      v\  irnei 

,  itini    i  gion,  w 1 1 1 1  Mi  i  n  i  I  oy 

.1-  the  feminine  ip)         '.i>i.) 

*ki  m    RR]  1    HON 
si, mi  .•!   the  old  i  ii"  Ii  ■   i rlump 

She'ii  .ill   fire,   beaut)    nnd   sincerity.     Well 
led  .mil  John   Bolei  sings  nicely.     {Mar* 

Kit. II  I  TO  LOVE,  IMF.  Paramount  Ruth 
Chatterton  in  .i  real  ilr.nii.itn'  gem.  Ruth  and  the 
technician*  collaborate  in  put  Una  over  the  most  con- 
vincing dual  role  ever  filmed.    (Feb.) 

ri\i  1<  s  I  m>         trncta.— -A  tasty  Curwood  he- 
.  with  Charles  Bickford  In  a  dual  rdle.     (Dec.) 

ROAD  TO  PARADISE— Flrtt  National —Twin 
are  .it  it  again,  complicating  movie  plots.     Lo- 
retta  Young  plaj  ■  both  ^,'irls.  one  -i  crook,  the  other  a 
■calthy  and  noetic  )  oui  W.) 

roi  (,n  u  \  i  uts  oer*.— Another  personal 

Kin-Tin- 1  'in.      I  lie  children  will  love  it. 
(Od.) 

ROYAL    BED,    TIIK.     Radio    Pictnrei    -Lowe" 
Sherman  dlrecta  himself  in  a  smart,  amnr'ng  comedy 
.iNnit  modern  royalty.     Mary    \  ■ 
princess  and   the   veteran    Nance  O'NeU,  a 
queen.    (Feb.) 

•      ROYAL   FAMILY    OF    BROADWAY,   THE 
■  ramount.      \  brillia  ni  Ij   done  com 
a  home.    Fredric  March  doei  the  work  of  bit 
life.    Ina  Claire  is  marvelous.     Don't  miss  this  one. 
(Feb.) 

SANTA  FK  IK  Ml  .   Mil  nnount.— Richard 

Arim  in  his  cowboy  suit.  Indians,  And  Mini 
Green!    If  you  like  Westerns,  J]  right.    (\ov.) 

SAP  FROM  SYRACUSE,  HIE— Paramount- 
Jack  Oakie's  bubbling  personality  tints  this  across. 
jack  plays  a  good-natui  o  masqueradea  as 

a  famous  engineer.    No  panic,  but   .  lod.    (Oct) 

SCAND  \l.  sheet     Paramount       \  v    ■■' 
paper  drama  with  George  Bancroft  as  the  managing 

and  K.iv  Francis  as  his  wife.    A  meat} 

with  a  knockout  kick.    (Feb.) 

SCOTLAND     ^  VRD     I  \     nttlini:    good 

crime  story  with  that  rattling  e ■»nl  actor.  Edmund 
I  owe,  playing  a  dual  rdlc.  Tliis  film  packs  a  wallop. 
(Jj>i.) 

SEA  GOD,  THE— Paramount.— Wild  adventure. 
pearl    diving,    cannibals — a    real    movie.      Ri 
Arlen   and    Fay    Wraj    provide   the   love   in) 
(Not.) 

SB  ^  LEGS — Paramount— In  spite  of  Jack  Oakie. 
Harry  Green  and  Eugene  Pallette,  this  comedy  isn't 
imical.     (Jan.) 

•  SEASBENSA  I  H— Fox.— Dashing  adventure 
.  of  submarines  during  the  war.  George 
O'Brien  does  a  grand  job.  All  the  family  will  like 
it.     (March.) 

*sl   \    WOLF.   THE— Fox.— Again   Jack   Lon- 
don's famous   H'.k-  Larstn  takes  the  screen — 
with  sound.     Milton  Sills  pla;  ed   (Pint/  beautifully. 

His  last  picture,  and  a  noble  thriller.     (.  .Von.) 

SECOND   HONEYMOON,     i  ill      Continental 
rce  corned)  felicity  with  Josephine 

Dunn  and  Edward  Barle.     Entertaining.     (March.) 

SEE   AMERICA   THIRST     Universal.— A   tw.v- 
reel    plot    stretched    over   a    full-length    tilm    induces 
■less.     Langdon  and  Summerville  do  their  best 
to   make  it   funny.      (Jan.) 


SHADOW   RANCH— Columbia. - 
new  \\  eatern  is  a  crack  i 


-Buck  Jon.s' 


SHE  GOT  WHAT  SHE  VJ  WTED— Oruzo-Til- 
fany. — An  hourful  of  guffaws  over  old  man  Boris  and 
his  philandering  wife.    Betty  Compsoo  s  the  wife  and 

darn  good's  the  picture.    (Dec.) 

SILVER  HORDE.  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Rex 
Beach's  salmon-fishing  thriller  makes  a  tingling  phon- 
oplav  and  Evelvn  Brent  makes  a  brand  new  hit. 
(Dec.) 


I 


139 


cat  l ni)  (Icliciou) 
modern  ueait  lor 


\   Health^/ Beauty 


w 


YOU  have  no  idea  what  this  new  yeast  has 
done  for  me!  Really,  I  can  hardly  recog- 
nize myself.  My  skin  is  actually  clear  and 
smooth  for  the  first  time  in  months.  I  feel  like 
a  million  all  the  time — with  more  pep  and 
energy  than  I  know  what  to  do  with.  And  the 
wonderful  part  is  that  these  Yeast  Foam  Tab- 
lets are  not  only  good  tasting,  but  their  dry, 
concentrated  form  makes  them  so  convenient 
and  easy  to  eat.  Since  they  keep  indefinitely, 
I  can  always  have  some  within  reach — tucked 
away  in  my  handbag  or  desk  drawer." 

Yeast  Foam  Tablets  are  nothing  but  pure 
whole  yeast.  They  contain  no  drugs  or  other 
ingredients.  Due  to  its  purity,  uniformity  and 
vitamin  strength,  this  yeast  has  become  the 
accepted  standard  for  vitamin  studies  as  con- 
ducted by  the  U.  S.  Government,  leading  uni- 
versities and  other  experimental  laboratories. 

Eat  Yeast  Foam  Tablets  for  skin  and  com- 
plexion disorders,  digestive  and  bowel  disturb- 
ances, underweight  and  rundown  conditions. 
The  large  10-day  bottle  costs  but  50  cents  at 
your  drug  store.  Made  and  guaranteed  by  the 
Northwestern  Yeast  Company,  Chicago; 
World's  Largest  Makers  of  Dry  Yeast. 

ON    THE     AIR 

Every  Sunday  afternoon  from  2:30  to  3:00  P.M.  Eastern 
Standard  time,  the  melodious  "Yeast  Foamers"  over  N'.HC. 
Blue  Network  stations  and  all  supplementary  stations  from 
coast  to  coast. 

Yeast  Foam 
Tablets 

BEMI     FOR     FREE     S  A  M  P  I,  E 

N  0 R  TH WESTERN    YEAST    C  O  M P A  N  Y 

17S0     N.    ASHLAND     AVENUE,    CHICAGO.    ILL. 

Please  send  free  sample  and  descriptive  circular, 
p.r. 

Name — 


140 


FTry  the      T 
inger-tip      est 

Dandruff  all  over  your  shoulders  is  bad  enough — 
but  dandruff  caked  on  your  scalp,  clogging  up  the 
pores  and  stifling  the  growth  of  hair  is  worse. 
This  invisible  dandruff-cap  threatens  the  life  of 
the  hair.  You  can  tell  in  a  second  if  you  have  it. 
Scratch  your  scalp  gently,  then  look  at  your  finger- 
nails. 

You  must  shampoo  regularly  anyway — why  not 
use  Fitch's  and  remove  every  speck  of  dandruff  at 
the  same  time?  Fitch's  Dandruff  Remover  Shampoo 
dissolves  and  removes  every  particle  of  even  the 
most  heavily  incrusted  dandruff.  Under  a  money- 
back  guarantee,  too.  It  lathers  freely  and  rinses 
easily,  no  acid  rinse  needed.  And  it's  just  as  good 
for  blondes  as  for  brunettes.  Fitch's  has  never 
failed  in  37  years  of  increasing  sales.  Try  it  today  at 
your  nearest  barber  shop  or  beauty  parlor — or  buy 
a  retail  size  at  any  drug  or  department  store. 
Send  for  free  trial  size  and  booklet. 

A    J"i-       t    *a     Dandruff 

F.  W.  FITCH  CO.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa  PH4 

Please  send  me  generous  free  trial  package  and 

32  page  educational  booklet  "Your  Hair  and  Scalp." 

Name 

Address 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 

SIN  SHIP,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Louis  Wol- 
helm,  :is  actor  and  director,  attempts  a  romantic 
r61c.    Disappointing.      (Jan.)  . 


i  SIN  TAKES  A  HOLIDAY— Pathe.— Don't 
^\  miss  this.  Constance  Bennett,  beautiful 
clothes,  smart  dialogue  and  a  working-sirl-boss  ro- 
mance that  has  a  real  kick.     A  honey.     (Jan.) 

SINNERS'  HOLIDAY  —  Warners.  —  (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Women  in  Love.")  Just  as  a  change  of 
scenery  the  ganf»sti-rs  move  out  of  the  honky-tonks 
to  an  amusement  pier.  Grant  Withers  is  the  hero. 
(Oct.) 

SIT  TIGHT— Warners.— Joe  E.  Brown  and  Win- 
nie Liuhtner  repeat  many  of  their  monkey-shines. 
But  they're  still  funny.     (Dec.) 

SOLDIER'S  PLAYTHING,  A— Warners.— If  you 
like  romance  seasoned  with  plenty  of  laughs,  some 
slap-stick  and  hot  thrills,  catch  this.     (Oct.) 

SON  OF  THE  SADDLE— Universal.— A  Ken 

Maynard  Western  with  plenty  of  hard  riding,  gun 
play  and  action.     (Oct.) 

SOUP  TO  NUTS— Fox.  — Rube  Goldberg's 
grandly  goofy  cartoons,  his  fantastic  inventions  and 
freak  statues,  are  all  in  this  hilarious  film.  You'll  like 
it.     (Oct.) 

SOUS  LES  TOITS  DE  PARIS  (Under  the  Roofs 
of  Paris) — Tobis. — Skilful  pantomine  makes  this 
enjoyable  French  dialogue  picture  comprehensible 
without  knowledge  of  that  language.  Two  of  the 
songs  are  hummers.    (Feb.) 

•  SOUTHE R NE R,  THE— M-G- M .—Lawrence 
Tibbett  in  a  gay,  charming  comedy — and  how 
he  sings!  Esther  Ralston,  too,  and  more  beautiful 
than  ever.     (March.) 


The  Loveliest 
EYES 

in  the 

WORLD 


A/TOTION  PICTURE 
^'■^  directors  have  said 
that  Katherine  Mac 
Donald  has  the  loveli- 
est eyes  in  the  world. 
She  developed  and  for 
years  has  used  her  own 
Lash  Cosmetic. 

Absolutely  water- 
proof.Willnot  stiffen  or 
break  lashes  but  leaves 
them  soft  and  natural. 

At  most  toilet  goods  counters  or  $1  direct  to 
{Catherine  MacDonald  at  Hollywood. 

IKATHERINE  MUcDONALtfS 
LASH 


mlWut'fSr&tBwifc/j 


COSMETIC 


IWATERFSOOr 


This  exquisite,  genuine  leather,  double  com- 
pact with  your  initials  of  leaf-gold;  green, 
blue,  red  or  black  leather;  in  gift  box, 
with  extra  re/ill,  postpaid  for  only  $1.00. 
Order  now  for  prizes — gifts — for  your- 
self— you'll  loveit!  Give  initials;shade 
of  leather,  powder  and  rouge.   FREE 
— write  today  for  "Modem  Com- 
pacts", booklet  of  unusual  gift  items. 
Address:  Mart  Jane  Leb 

VASUE'   LABORATOSJES,  INC.  717    E.  CRAY,  LOUISVILLE,  IT. 


PRACTICAL    NURSING 

AT  HOME  IN  IS  WEEKS 

kUnalooi    ollinc.      M«ny    (H 

■ulal  lor  invalid*  in  tlirir  vicu 

W.     h.lp    itcur*    position*. 

MISS   C.    TULL.    6204     Wlnlhro*.     Chicago. 


•  SPOILERS,  THE— Paramount.— Gary  Cooper 
and  William  Boyd  stage  a  battle  wilder  than 
the  memorable  fight  between  William  Farnum  and 
Tom  Santschi,  which  made  screen  history.  Red 
meat  melodrama,  packed  with  action,  suspense  and 
thrills.      ( Nov.) 

SPURS  —  Universal.  —  Here's  hard-ridin'  Hoot 
Gibson  in  a  Western  that's  a  Western.  It's  fast, 
from  the  first  shot  to  the  last.     (Nov.) 

SQUEALER,  THE— Columbia.— If  you  can  stand 
another  gangster  picture,  this  one  has  some  new- 
ideas.  Well  acted  by  Jack  Holt,  Dorothy  Revier 
and  Davey  Lee.     (Nov.) 

STORM,  THE— Universal.— This  storm  is  no 
tornado.  A  very  tame  melodrama.  Even  Lupe 
Velez  is  tame  as  the  little  girl  of  the  Great  Northwest. 
(Nov.) 

STORM  OVER  ASIA— Amkino.— Another  of  the 
powerful  Revolutionary  pictures  from  Soviet  Russia 
dramatizing  the  Communist  revolt  against  the  White 
Army  in  1918.     A  smash  ending.    Silent.     (Nov.) 

•     SUNNY — First  National. — Singie  or  not,  it's 
a  gem.     Radiant  Marilyn  Miller  smashes  it 
across.     (Dec.) 

SUNRISE  TRAIL,   THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
A  Western  with  too  much  talking  and  not  enough 
action.      (March.) 

SUSPENSE — British  International.— A  war  story 
and  a  pretty  slow  one.  Vic  McLaglen's  brother  Cyril 
is  in  it.      (Jan.) 

•  SWEET  KITTY  BELLA  IRS— Warners.— A 
dainty  operetta,  beautifully  photographed  in 
Technicolor.  Claudia  Dell,  charming  new  star,  is 
Kilty;  Walter  Pidgeon,  the  baritone  hero.     (Nov.) 

SWEETHEARTS  ON  PARADE— Columbia- 
Just  another  pure  little  country  girl  among  the  bad, 
big-town  millionaires.  Alice  White  is  the  sweet 
young  thing.     (Nov.) 

TEN  NIGHTS  IN  A   BARROOM— Willis   Kent 

Production.  —  Old-fashioned  maudlin  melodrama, 
elaborately  overacted.  The  villain  is  Demon  Rum. 
(Nov.) 

THIRD  ALARM,  THE— Tiffany  Productions  — 
Out  come  the  old  fire  engines  to  make  a  big  noise. 
But  no  matter  how  hard  Jimmy  Hall  and  Hobart 
Bosworth  try,  it's  just  one  of  those  things.    (Jan.) 


THOROUGHBRED,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
—Wesley  "Freckles"  Barry  is  the  nice  little  jockey 
hero  of  a  nice  little  horse  story  for  the  family  trade. 
(Nov.) 

THOSE  THREE  FRENCH  GIRLS— M-G-M.— 

Not  even  Reginald  Denny  and  Ukelele  Ike  make  this 
unfunny  hodge-podge  worth  while.  Fifi  Dorsny, 
Vola  DAvril  and  Sandra  Ravel  arc  the  girls.     ( Nov.) 


Sweet 


Breath 

This  new  way  acts  instantly 

MOST  people  nowadays  completely  protect 
themselves  against  unpleasant  breath. 
A  small,  pleasant-tasting  tablet  is  slipped  into 
the  mouth  . . .  and  all  odors  of  food,  drinking, 
or  smoking  vanish  instantly. 

The  name  of  these  tablets 'is  May-Breath.  You 
may  get  them  at  your  neighborhood  druggist. 
Always  remember  to  take  them  along  when 
going  out  among  others.  You  will  have  so  much 
more  peace  of  mind. 

May-Breath 

(TABLETS) 

Will  You  Examine  This 

Bargain 

FREE? 


if tti  rou  exam 


For  the  first  time  in  34  years  as  im- 
porters and  manufacturing  jew  tiers, 
we  offer  geouine  diamonds  direct  to 
buyer  1  On  our  new  plan,  to  meet 
present  business  conditions,  we  will 
send  you,  for  FREE  Examination, 
this  fine,  large  fiery-brilliant  per- 
fectly cut  genuine  diamond  in 
an  exquisitely  engraved  18K  solid 
white  gold  ladies  ring!  And  what  a 
bargain  It  lsl  We  Import  direct  and 
eave  yoa  the  broker's  profit ;  we  man- 
ufacture and  save  you  the  maker's 
profit ;  we  sell  direct  and  save  you  the 
dealer's  profit.     You  save  8  profits) 


*l9-son  Easy  Terms  if  You  Keep  if 


Wear  this  diamond  ring  a  week  at  our 
risk.  Compare  with  others  costing  50% 
to  75%  more,  and  you  will  know  why  we 
make  this  unheard  of  dlrect-from- 
manufacturer  FREE  Trial  offer.  Just 
send  your  name,  address  and  finger  size. 
We'll  send  you  this  beautiful  genuine 
diamond  ladies'  ring  on  approval.  Send 
no  monejt;  pay  no  C.  O.  £»  Wear  the 
ring* «  werlc— then  decide.  Either  return  it— 
or  remit  $1.75  first  payment  and  then  only  $3 
ft  month  until  the  amazingly  low  dir.-ct-  felling 
price  of  $19. 75  has  been  paid.  Order  your 
ring  now  on  FREE  TRIAL.  You  risk  nothing-. 

Carlton  and  Company,  i°X£g'i8&Z?ZZ 

%t(BadCamp£&xiori 

Never  again  need  you  be  ashamed  of  your 
complexion — the  admiration  lavished  upon 
the  vivacious,  beautiful  woman  can  be  yours 
to  enjoy — if  you  remove  the  causes  of  poor 
complexion.  The  cause  of  your  trouble  is 
probably  constipation.  It  ravages  the  system, 
destroys  beauty.  Dr.  Edwards  Olive  Tablets, 
— a  substitute  for  calomel , — is  a  vegetable 
compound  known  by  its  olive  color.  Used  for 
20  years  to  help  relieve  constipation,  cleanse 
the  system,  and  bring  the  health  that  makes 
beauty.  A  harmless  corrective.  Non-habit- 
forming.  No  bad  after-effects.  Take  nightly. 
At  druggists,  15c,  30c  and  60c. 

^U^Qi\  VE  TABLETS 


Send 

No 
Money 


Pay  No 
C.O.D. 


taking  pictures.    1'hoto- 

big    demand.     Commercial 

holography    also    pays    big    money. 

—  quickly  at  home  in  *=P*r©  time. 

^erience  neceasary.  Write  today 

new   free  book.    Opportunities  in 

Pkotnoraphy.  American    , 

hoolof  Photography.  Oept.    1254 

3601  Michigan  Ave..  Chicago. 


Photoplay   M  \o \/im    i  or  Apeii  .  i     i 


4' 


.ill  In  II.  »<■«  an. I  box-office     Hokum,  bul  I 
[i  I  i..  hold  \"u.    (Ok.) 


•        mi    Mil  i     i>\\  n>    <  oiumbta      \    pretty 
grand  Sin,  ■■«•  ellently  dlre<  ted,  and  beautifully 
i  by  Hi"'  newcomer,  Richard (  ramwed,    (Jan.) 

•      TOM    svu  \  m<  nit      IncU 

nan,  Mit/i  Green,  )u r  Durkin 

the  great  kid  clonic.    t  corking  pictun 

ll.     Anil  In    all  in.  an-,  don't  let  Hi''   kid 

•     TRADF  K     HORN      \I  < .   M       II  ,,,-. 
magi  I  ra.lrr     Horn  Si 

hi   jungle,  lull  ..i   Hi.-  tensest   drama  an. I  per- 

'   :rih.) 

I  ki   I  ll    Midi   r  YOUTH 
starts  out  t,>  be  ■  tenderly  wistful  <t.>rv  .,i  \outh  ami 
turns  Intoa  stereotyped  April  and  November  romam  e. 

two  wok  i  ds    •British   International 
I .  dram  it"   <t-r\  . il  Inl 
ably  thr  Ix-it  ..t  the  recent    English  films 

I  ndkk   MON  rANA  SKIM 

Slim  Summerville  nvesa  pretty  »■•■  ik  picture 
about  a  stranded  showgirl. 

I    M>l  It  SI   M'lt   l<>\  ',    ,11  ni.iv  n    I 

what   happens  t  in  and   bei    Norl 

Mounlie,  but  you'll  get  your   EBOney'l  worth  of  gor- 
geous scenery.      (Jan.) 

l  P  THE  RIVER— Fox.— Tin-  lighter  ride  of  prison 
Bfe,  and  very  amusing.     Six  ncr  Tracy  i~  grand. 

VIENNESE  NIGHTS  —  Warners.  —  Tn 
onerelta  In  recent  months — with  oh.  what  » 
Vlvienne  Segal  ami  Alexandei  Gray  -mg  the  love 
songs.      (Nov.) 

VIRTUOUS   SIN.    THE -Paramount. —Torri. I 
love  in  frigid  Russia.   Kay  Iran,  i>  ami  Walter  Huston 
Imply  grand.     (Dec.) 

WAR  NURSE-MOM—  A  perfect  movie  storv 
gone  wrong.  Gruesome  and  sill  v.  by  turns,  this 
picture  is  a  sad  disappointment.  June  Walker. 
Anita  Page,  Robert  Montgomery  and  Robert  Antes 
have  the  leads,  which  makes  it  all  doubly  distressing. 
(Jan.) 

*V\  V  V  FOR  A  SAILOR— M-G-M  —  John  Gil- 
bert as  B  he-man  sailor,  with  rowilv  humor  ami 

low-brow  dialogue.    Never  a  dull  moment.    (D 

WESTWARD  BOUND  —  Syndicate—  Buffalo 
Bill.  Jr..  with  his  guns  and  horse  in  another  Western. 
(Feh.) 

WHAT  A  WIDOW!— United   Artists.  — Gloria 
ion  goes  slap-stick  but  manages  to  be  entertain- 
ing in  light  farce.     Anyhow,  the  clothes  are  swell,  and 
Lew  Cody  deserves  three  cheers.     (Oct.) 

WHITK  MM   NDSBL— The  eternal  triangle  story 
the   magnificent   photography  show- 
ing   the    terrifying    vast    icincss    of    Newfoundland. 
-  ».) 

•     WHOOPEE— United  Artists— Don't   say 
you're  fed  up  on  musical  comedies.     Go  to  see 
pee'    instead.    EddieCantor  pulls  a  gag  a  min- 
ute.    Lavish.  all-Technicolor  production,     ((hi.) 

WIDOW  FROM  CHICAGO,  THE— First  Na- 
tional.— Alice  White  is  starred  in  this  conventional 
gangster  picture.      (Jan.) 

WILD  MEN  OF  KALIHARI—  Travel  Film  — 
Mildly  interesting  African  adventure — without  much 
faking.     (Feb.) 

WI NGS  OF  ADVENTURE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— Armida  saves  this  far-fetched  adventure  story  of 
movie  perils  along  the  Mexican  border.     (Oct.) 

i  WKEE  DON,  THE— Richard  Talmadge  Pro- 
ductions.—  Richard  Talmadge  made  it  himself  and  it 
stars  his  muscles.  Western,  very,  very  mello-drama. 
(Dec.) 

YELLOW  MASK.  THE— British  International  — 
An  attempt  to  mix  music,  comedy  and  melodrama. 
But  they  don't  mix.     (Feb.) 

YOUNG  WOODLEY—  British  International  — 
A  wi  ll-made  transcription  of  the  stage  play  about 
adolescent  love.     English  cast.     (Dec.) 

ZWEI  HERZEN  IM    *4  TAKT  (Two  Hearts  in 
Walt;     Time        '.--   dated     Cinemas.  —  The 
charming    sound    picture    yet    sent    from    Germany. 
nd  tuneful  operetta  in  the  Viennese  manner. 
(Jan.) 


Here  s  Xhat New  8-Hour 
JLipstick 


Ju-t  discovered  in  Paris  by  Edna  Wallace 
Hopper.  A  new  8-hour  lip  coloring  formulated 
on  entirely  new  principle.  Waterproof,  ll  car- 
proof.  Indelible.  Ends  constant  "making-up." 

Edna  Wallace  Hopper,  famous  stage 
beauty,  discovered  it  in  Pans.  A  lip  color 
that  banishes  all  the  smearing  and  fleeting  life 
or"  present  w.ivs  in  make-up.  An  utterly  new 
kind  of  lipstick. 

She  sent  it  to  Hollywood,  and  it  swept 
through  the  studios  like  a  storm.  Old-time 
lipsticks  were  discarded  overnight. 

Now  —  Kissproof.  the  world's  largest  makers 
of  lipsticks,  has  obtained  the  formula  from 
Miss  Hopper,  and  offers  its  amazing  results  to 
you.  A  totally  New  type  of  lipstick,  different 
from  any  other  you  have  ever  tried  .  .  . 
Kissproof  or  any  other  kind. 

You  put  it  on  before  you  go  out.  Then  for- 
get about  it.  Six  hours,  eight  hours  later  your 
lips  are  still  naturally  lovely! 

No  more  constant  making-up.  No  more 
fuss  and  bother.  Do  you  wonder  that  women 
are  flocking  to  its  use? 

I  llrrly  .\FW  Principle 

It  is  different  in  formula  and  result  from  any 
previously  known  lipstick.  It  does  what  no 
other  lipstick  does  or  has  ever  done  .  .  . 
actually  seems  to  last  indefinitely. 

That's  because  the  color  pigment  it  em- 
bodies has  never  before  been  used  in  a  lipstick. 
It  holds  where  others  smear  and  wear — yet  it 
leaves  no  trace  of  greasy  residue. 

Then,  too,  it  is  a  true,  Natural  color.  Thus 
it  ends  that  artificial  smirk  women  have  tried 
for  years  to  overcome.  A  color  that  glorifies 
the  lips  to  pulse-quickening  loveliness — trust 
the  French  for  that! 

What  To  Ask  For 

To  obtain,  simply  ask  for  the  New  Kissproof 

<J?ie  NEW 

Jussprooj 

StiM/Me  lipstick 


Eight  hours  later — lonely  lip;.' 

Indelible  Lipstick  (or  Lip  and  Cheek  Rouge). 
And— remember  it  is  Not  the  "same"  as  any 
other  lipstick  known.  Don't  believe  that  just 
because  you  have  tried  Kissproof  before — 
that  you  have  tried  this  one.  You  haven't; 
this  is  Kntirf.lv  Ni  w. 

Owing  to  tremendous  demand,  the  price  is 
as  little  as  50c  —  Kdna  Wallace  Hopper  paid 
$2.50  for  the  original  in  Paris.  Two  forms  at 
all  toilet  counters— lipstick  and  lip  and  cheek 
rouge. 

Lipsticks— Black  and  red  enamel  swivel  case, 
75c.  Black  and  gold  case,  50c.  Lip  and  Check 
Rouge — purse  size,  red  and  black  enamel  vanity 
with  mirror,  50c.  Newest  Parisian  Shades: 
Theatrical,  S'atural,  Raspberry,  Orange. 


DROP  THIS  ON 

CORNS 

Pain  goes  almost  instantly,  ends  corn 

ONE  drop  of  this  new  formula  and  any 
corn  soon  shrivels  up  and  loosens. 
Just  peel  it  off  with  your  fingers.   It  is 
entirely  gone.  No  more  dangerous  cutting. 


This  way  acts  instantly,  like  a  local 
anaesthetic,  to  deaden  most  severe  pain. 
Doctors  approve  its  safety. 

Satisfaction  guaranteed.  Works 
alike  on  any  corn  or  callus — old  or  new, 
hard  or  soft. 


*« 


GETS -IT" 


World's 
Fastest  Way 


142 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


Invites  You  West! 


IF  you  are  planning  a  Western  trip,  one  or 
more  of  these  booklets  will  be  mailed 
promptly  on  request  to  E.  E.  Nelson,  366 
Northern  Pacific  Ry.,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 

116 

North  Coast  Limited 

Newest  of  Transcontinental  Trains 

All  the  Lure 

of  3000  Years.... 

-CRCH/IV  AF 

swe&f? 

SLeACH-  ASTRIMG67MT-  B.e"AUTIFieK 


TJir\t  'TSiltlt 

m  America* 


^A 


SIXGLE  cream  that  now 
docs  the  work  of  three, 
Qream  of  Sbeba  requires  only 
twenty  minute  applications 
to  make  radiant  the  most 
sluggish  of  skins. 

For  three  years,  available 
only  to  the  elite  of  Holly- 
wood,* Qream  of  Sbeba, 
named  for  King  Solomon's 
l.i\  orite,  the  beautiful  Sheba, 
is  now  offered  to  the  public. 


Introductory  Offer 

Cmim  rjf  Sbeba  comts  in 
two  size  jars,  52.  and  S3; 
but  wc  arc  making  you  a 
SPECIAL  OFFER  OF  A  LARGE 
SIZf  Tl  111.  POSTPAID  TO 
SOI  R   IXX)H.  I()K  ONLY  SI 

Be  the  firM  10  use  this 
'(rum  of  ihc  Elite  "f  Hol- 
lywood", ami  he  the  envy 

ol  all  \our  liKii.lv 


ii  HSI  *. 

SIkHi    1 

nd  nic 

igra 

r 

in 

CLIP    AND    MAIL 

;:,.,^ 

V     1, 

1 

95  SHEBA  COMPANY 

HoUjWOodi  (.jlilitrau 

ir  Special  EXTRA  LARGE  Tl  hi 

wnd  )t>u   M.  iir  uiurn  ifu   luU   ui 

of  Cream  ol 

bin  mi  Jj)n       I 

i/ini 

\i.ttt 

P.P.4 

Einstein  in  Hollywood 


INTJED  l'KOM  PACE  371 


those  who  tripped  down  the  line  to  meet  him 
was  Mary. 

"I'm  so  very  glad  to  know  you,  Professor 
Einstein,"  she  purred.  Einstein  bowed  gal- 
lantly but  with  the  usual  bewildered  expres- 
sion. 

Immediately  afterward,  he  turned  to  an 
interpreter. 

"Wer  ist  dass?"  he  whispered. 

He  was  told  it  was  Mary  Pickford.  Einstein's 
face  was  still  blank  as  he  turned  to  Frau 
Einstein. 

Frau  Einstein  came  to  the  rescue.  She 
beamed  on  Mary. 

"Oh,  yes,"  she  said,  "we  came  to  America  in 
the  same  stateroom  on  the  Bclgcnland  in  which 
your  husband  traveled." 

A  FEW  of  the  Hollywoodites  never  could  get 
■*  *-the  distinction  between  Einstein  and  Serge 
Eisenstein,  the  Russian  director  who  had  left 
Hollywood  just  a  short  while  before  the 
German  scientist  arrived. 

Eisenstein  it  was  who  left  after  he  and  Para- 
mount had  failed  to  come  to  terms  for  the 
Russian  to  direct  Dreiser's  "American 
Tragedy." 

And  it  was  at  the  Universal  affair,  too,  that 
another  beautiful  actress — spare  the  name! — 
cooed  to  Einstein: 

"Oh,  Professor!  I  can't  begin  to  tell  you 
how  sorry  I  am  that  you're  not  going  to  direct 
the  'American  Tragedy.'  " 

Naturally,  photographers  in  hordes  were 
about  the  Universal  lot. 

News  cameramen— nine  of  them  in  a  row, 
each  with  microphones  poised — started  grind- 
ing off  footage  as  Einstein  and  Laemmle  stood 
talking  in  German. 

Einstein  speaks  little  English.  Uncle  Carl 
and  he  chatted  earnestly,  while  cameras  and 
sound  tracks  reeled  on. 

It  wasn't  until  the  films  were  being  developed 
for  national  distribution  that  it  was  learned 
that  the  conversation  went  about  like  this,  in 
German: 

Einstein — But  I  wish  that  you  would  see  to 
it  that  these  pictures  are  not  broadcast. 

Laemmle — I  assure  you  that  they  shall  not 
be. 

And  Universal,  frantic  that  the  newsreels  in 
every  picture  house  in  America  would  show 
Uncle  Carl  promising  Einstein  the  newsreels 
wouldn't  be  shown,  had  to  get  the  Hays  office 
to  help  recall  the  negatives — just  in  the  nick  of 
time! 

Innumerable  promoters  in  Hollywood  tried 
to  sign  Einstein  up  to  a  movie  contract.  They 
hadn't  the  slightest  idea  what  he  would  do  in 
front  of  a  camera — "illustrate  your  Einstein 
theory,"  one  of  them  suggested — but  they 
tried  to  sign  him  anyway.  To  all  these, 
Einstein  turned  a  deaf  ear. 

But  the  greatest  shock  he  gave  was  not  his 
refusal  of  the  movie  money,  but  his  refusal  to 
meet  all  the  stars! 

IT  was  funny  to  see  the  greatest  names  in 
moviedom,  hanging  about  Einstein's  heels 
exactly  like  a  crowd  of  fans  hang  around 
the  heels  of  a  film  star,  waiting  for  an  intro- 
duction. 

And  Einstein,  embarrassedly  explaining 
that  he  couldn't  speak  English  and  didn't 
know  much  about  movies,  begging  not  to 
have  to  meet  them. 

Of  course,  all  this  was  a  vast  puzzle  to 
Einstein. 

He  understood  theories  about  time  and 
space  beyond  most  other  mortals'  ken,  but  he 
didn't  understand  Hollywood. 

While  he  was  being  escorted  about  the 
Universal  lot,  for  instance,  he'd  turn  now  and 
then   to   Frau    Einstein  and  whisper: 

"Jetzt  gehen   wir  zum    nachsten   ring!" — 


(Now  we're  going  to  the  next  ring!) — just  like 
a  kid  at  a  three-ring  circus. 

At  Warner  Bros.-First  National  lot,  Einstein 
and  his  wife  got  into  the  circus  performance 
themselves,  though. 

The  Warner  lot  was  visited  by  the  Einstein 
party  on  the  same  day  they  visited  the 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  studios,  several  days 
after  the  Universal  affair. 

At  Warners  the  publicity  lads  asked  the 
Professor  and  his  wife  to  step  into  a  flivver, 
mounted  on  a  wooden  scaffold  before  a  big  blue 
screen. 

Einstein,  taking  off  his  hat  and  exposing 
that  fright-wig  head  of  hair,  did.  So  did 
Frau  Einstein. 

Then  lights  were  turned  on,  the  car  was 
jiggled  madly  from  beneath,  and  cameras 
whirred. 

And  two  hours  later,  before  he  left  the  studio, 
Professor  and  Frau  Einstein  saw  themselves  on 
the  screen,  driving  around  the  streets  of  Holly- 
wood, Paris  and  Berlin,  in  the  ancient  flivver! 
Warner  technicians  had  set  a  record  with  a 
trick-process  double-exposure  shot. 

It  was  on  the  Warner  visit  that  the  battle  of 
Einstein-vs.-Barrymore  was  staged! 

Barrymore,  in  his  frowsy  long-whiskered 
make-up  for  Svengali,  was  told  that  Einstein 
was  to  be  the  guest  of  Jack  Warner  and  studio 
officials  at  lunch,  and  would  Barrymore  join 
the  party. 

Barrymore  replied  that  in  view  of  his  make- 
up and  shooting  conditions,  he  was  not  sure 
whether  he  could  attend  or  not.  And  he  sent 
over  to  the  luncheon  room  a  picture  for  Einstein 
to  please  autograph  to  him. 

IX  the  meantime,  Einstein  had  arrived  and 
explained  that,  because  of  lack  of  time,  he  was 
afraid  he  could  not  visit  all  the  stages,  and 
would  Mr.  Barrymore  please  come  to  the 
luncheon  and  meet  him  there? 

The  message  was  taken  to  Barrymore. 

Barrymore,  famous  for  his  temper  and  his 
language,  rose  to  great  heights.  He  said  a  lot 
of  words  about  Einstein,  to  the  effect  that  if 
Einstein  couldn't  come  to  the  Barrymore  stage, 
Barrymore  would  be  so-and-so  if  he'd  go  to  the 
Einstein  lunch. 

Then  Einstein  declined  to  autograph  the 
Barrymore  picture! 

Barrymore  said  more  things.  Einstein  stood 
pat. 

At  this  juncture,  a  technician  on  the  Barn- 
more  set  hastened  over  to  the  lunch  room  and 
when  Einstein  and  officials  came  out,  presented 
his  autograph  book. 

Einstein  took  it. 

Frau  Einstein  took  it  out  of  the  professor's 
hands. 

"Xein!  Genug  heute!"  she  said — (No! 
Enough  today!) — and  handed  the  book,  un- 
autographed,  back  to  the  lad.  Crestfallen,  the 
boy  went  back  and  Barrymore  overheard  his 
tale. 

Then  the  Barrymore  rage  knew  no  bounds. 

"  Why,  the !  !  !"  he  shouted.    "Lock  the 

doors.    Lock  all  the  doors.    Don't  let  that 

on  this  set!" 

And  the  doors  were  locked.  And  Barrymore 
didn't  meet  Einstein  and  said  he  didn't  give  a 
tinker's,  and  Einstein  didn't  meet  Barrymore 
and  didn't  seem  to  care,  either.  And  Barry- 
more, who  up  to  then  had  been  an  Einstein 
enthusiast,  isn't  interested  in  Einstein  theories 
any  more. 

EIXSTEIX  was  lured  to  the  M-G-M  lot  by 
virtue  of  the  fact  that  two  of  his  country- 
men, working  in  a  picture  there,  had  known 
him  in  Germany.  He  didn't  want  to  turn  down 
their  invitation.  They  were  Heinrich  George 
and  Paul  Morgan,  known  as  the  "Will  Rogers 
of  Germany." 


PHOTOP]  a\    MAG  \/im     i  I  IB     \itii  ,    1931 


143 


\.  .1  mattei  of  fact,  Einstein  visited  longer 
on  the  stage  when  the)  were  making  the 
German  version  ol  "  I  In-  Big  Houae"  than  <>n 
any  >>c fur  lot  in  Hollywood.  He  could  s«-.ik 
1  ..1  in. ui  .a  last  and  be  was  always  annoyed  -it 
the  other  Iota  through  having  t"  be  bothered 
with  interpretei  11  twapped  German  with 
in  .mil  George  and  the  other  German*  tor 
several  hours.  But  he  didn't  understand 
l)irci  tor  Fejos 

Fejos,  "taking  it  big,"  wai  tin-  ultr.i  dire*  tor 
while  Einstein  watched.  He  bad  one  scene 
taken  time  times  ovei  Uterwud  Einstein 
shook  his  bead. 

"It  looked,"  he  said,  "that  the  first  scene 
was  perfect  rhe  second  was  grand.  But  he 
insisted  mi  another  <>iu-  being  made  H'm — 
in'-,  too  h.inl  t>>  please,  1  iliink!" 

As   .1   matter  of   fact,   throughout   ;>!!   his 
studioing,  Einstein  l>H>kiiI  bewildered   He 

plainly   was 

Look  at  his  photographs  He  Beemed  to 
breathe  sighs  of  relief  when  hi-  finally  left  each 
lie 

He  had  said,  even  before  reaching  California, 
that  the  only  man  he  wanted  to  meet  was 
Charlie  Chaplin. 

He  did 

llr  met  Charlie  and  went  with  him  to  that 
terrific  Los  Angeles  opening  of  Chaplin's 
picture,  "City  \Jgt 

The  mob  of  25,000  spectators  that  night 
broke  all  police  control,  ami  celebrities  wen 

manhandled  by  the  star-worshippers  as  they 
entered  the  theater. 

It  was  all  Chaplin  and  I'.instein  and  their 
party  COuM  do  to  get  into  the  theater.  Through 
it  all.  I'.instein  never  said  a  word. 

He  just  stared  in  utter  amazement  at  it  all. 
Hut  later,  he  sighed  a  hit  and  confessed  to 
Charlie: 

"  1  have  visited  the  world's  famous  labo- 
ratories. I  have  looked  through  the  greatest 
telescopes.  1  have  seen  science's  wonders. 
But  never  have  1  seen  anything  like  that.  And 
never,  I  hope,  shall  1  again." 

And  most  startling  of  all.  Einstein  was  shown 
something  science  does  not  admit-that  one 
body  may  be  in  two  place-  at  the  same  instant. 

One  night,  while  I'.instein  was  in  his  Pasadena 
bungalow,  he  appeared  at  a  Hollywood  party. 
All  the  -uests  met  him  and  he  talked  a  few- 
words  to  them  in  Herman.     He  left  early. 

IT    wasn't    until    the    next    day    that    it    was 
learned    that     the    host — a    moving    picture 
.il-  -had  hired  a  clever  make-up  artist  and 
a  German  a  tor.  and  that  the  "  I'.instein"  at  the 
party  was  only  ..  double  for  the  scientist! 
Poor  Professor  Einstein  I 

IK-  can  understand  the  most  profound  things 
— relativity,  the  Unified  Field  theory,  mathe- 
matical equations  that  take  two  years  to  work 
out—  Hut  he  admits,  in  so  many  words,  that 
he  can't  understand  Hollywood! 


Photoplay 

For  hints  on  picture  plots  and  clues, 

We  browse  through  Photoplay's  review: 
It  makes  us  motion  picture  wise; 

It  names  the  Stars  in  Filmland's  skies. 
Producers,  titles,  casts,  galore, 

Pictures  of  those  the  fans  adore. 
And  thus  we  new  on  aery  page 

The  romance  of  the  Shadow  Stage. 

It  names  the  casts  of  current  plays, 

A  page  of  Brickbats  and  Bouquets, 
Cal  York  broadcasts  the  latest  n 

And  fttHS  express  their  points  and  views 
We  trace  the  orbits  of  the  Stars, 

Their  loves  and  matrimonial  jars. 
And  learn  to  know  and  understand 

The  lights  and  shades  of  Movieland. 

Rowena  K.  Reens 


lioc|is  iooili  while 


M 


I.N  turn  t<>  «»aze  at  the 
<^irl  with  a  charming 
smile. 

When  teeth  are  \\hit«'  as 
lovely  pearls,  your  smile  at- 
tains its  greatest  charm. 

For  that  very  important 
reason,  chew  delicious  Den- 
t\  DC  every  day.  It  keeps  teeth 
white.  It  also  helps  to  keen 
gums  firm  because  its  extra 
chewy  quality  gives  them 
extra  healthful  exercise. 
Monevcaii  huvno  finer  chew- 
ing gum  than  Dentvne. 


^T^ENTYNE 

J J . .  and  smile! 


HAIR  REMOVED 

instantly,  painlessly,  harmlessly,  in 
your  own  home,  with  Johnston's 
HAIR  REMOVER.  No  fuss,  no 
muss.   No  objectionable  odon.    Hair 

removed  with  Johnston's  tends 
to  have  its  re^rowth  retarded.  Bend 

$1  fur  2-ox.  Imr  prepaid  (instructions 
Included).     Write  Dept.  P.  M.  4. 

Queens  Pharmacal  Co.,  Elmhurst,  N.  Y. 


Why  Suffer  with  — = 

Skin  Troubles  when 

Ciitieura 

<{uieklv   ■«->■!■ 


Prirp  ffc.  each    Sample  tr**.  ArMrt>«a 
"Cutlcura."  Dtpt.  6B,  Mald#c,  Mass 


Subscribe  for 

PHOTOPLAY     | 

RATES 

Yeari.t  Sibscription:  S2.50  in   the 
I'nited  State?,  its  dependencies.  Mexico 
and  Cuba;  S3  00  Canada;  $3.50  to  for- 
eign countries.     Remittances  should  be 
made    by    check,  or    postal    or   express 
money  order. 

NOTICE! 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  j 

Dept.4-P,  919  No.  Michigan  Am-.,   CHICAGO     • 

* 

Grnllrmrr.:    I  enclose  herewith  S2.50  [Canada  $              ' 

-i    $:  SO]    for    which     kindly    enter   my   sub-     ; 

scrlptlon  (or  Photoplat    Maoazi.se,  for  one  year.     ! 

effective  with  next  Issue. 

Send  to ! 

;     Street  Addreat ; 

i     Citv Stair • 

Dn  not  subscribe  for  Photo plai  Ma 
the  credentials  of  all  solicitors.    If  in  < 
dealer  or  use  the  coupon  and  Bend  it  t 

tiAziNK  through  unknown  persons.  Verify 

loubt  pvo  your  subscription  to  your  news- 
lirc-ct  to  PHOTOPLAY. 

i44 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  April,  1931 


If  Tired  of 
Your  Hair 


use  my 

Simple 

Beautifier 


NO  longer  need  you  suffer  humiliation  because 
your  hair  is  dead-looking,  straight-as-a  stick 
...  or  is  "frizzy"  and  never  stays  in  place. 

Within  20  minutes,  Boyer's  Hair  Waving  6?  Curl- 
ing Fluid  transforms  your  hair  into  soft,  becom- 
ing waves  ...  it  imparts  a  glinting  lustre .  .  .  the 
hair  color  appears  livelier  .  .  .  your  hair  truly  be- 
comes your  crown  of  beauty. 

You  will  be  surprised  that  you  can  so  beautifully 
wave  your  hair  at  home.  And  the  cost  is  so  little. 
Boyer's  is  absolutely  safe  to 
use.  It  never  becomes  rancid 
or  sour,  nor  can  it  stain  the 
hair  or  towels.  There  is  no  flaky 
residue,  no  dust  or  film.  The 
hair  driesquickly  and  the  waves 
are  deep  and  lasting. 

If  your  druggist  cannot  supply 
you,  send  50c  to  Dept.  A,  2700 
S.  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  for 
a  ten  wave  bottle.  Guaranteed 
to  please  you. 


|}A».*3 

3fct'l» 


BOYEK 

~y  he  Society  tfaxfusrieAMi 

Names 

\J[  ARK  your  clothes  and  linen 
*vX  for  safety  from  losses,  easy 
identification,  good  appearance. 
CASH'S  NAMES  arc  far  supc 
rior  to  any  other  kind  of  mark' 
ing — give  you  a  choice  of  many 
styles  and  colors — neat — perma- 
nent— economical.      Woven  on 
fine  cambric  tape — "Fast  to 
the    finish."    Order    from 
your  dealer  or  write. 

Trial  Offer  *££ 

one  dozen  of  your  own  first 
name  woven  in  fast  thread 
on  fine  cambric  tape. 

J.&  J.  CASH,  Inc. 

♦**r5  j  16Ist     St.,     So.     Norwalk, 

I  |  Conn.,   or   6445    So.    Gra- 

mcrcy  Place,  Los  Angeles, 

Calif.,  or  171  Gray  St..  Belleville.  Ont. 


..BIRD  . 
LOVERS' 


Free 

S0-Page  Bird  Book  in  Colors 

"Canaries  for  Pleasure  and  Prof  it" 

Gives  expert  professional    ad- 
vice   on    breeding,    rearing, 
training,    feeding   and    care   of 
canaries.    Keep   your    birds   in 
song.    Sent   free  together  with 
liberal    samples    of    West's    Quality    Bird 
Foods    on    receipt   of    10    cents   in    stamps 
or   coin  to  cover  mailing  cost. 
Weil's  Bird  Foods  are  sold  at  all  good  stores 
Maitinii  Product*  Co.,  1535  Hubbard  St.  Milwaukee,  Wi«. 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


"AMONG  THE  MARRIED"— M-G-M.— From 
tin  play  by  Vincent  Lawrence.  Adapted  by  Doris 
Anderson,  Directed  by  Edgar  Selwyn.  The  cast: 
lidl,  Adolphe  Menjou;  Ethel,  Leila  Hyams;  Jack, 
Norman  Foster;  Helen,  Mary  Duncan;  Cally.  Hedda 
Hopper;  Joe,  Robert  Emmett  Keane;  Brandt,  Harry 
Northrup. 

"CRACKED  NUTS" — Radio  Pictures. — From 
the  story  by  Douglas  MacLcan  and  Al  Boasberg. 
Directed  by  Edward  Cline.  The  cast:  Wendell 
Graham,  Bert  Wheeler;  Zander  Ulysses  Parkhurst, 
Robert  Woolsey;  Betty  Harrington,  Dorothy  Lee; 
Aunt  Minnie.  Edna  May  Oliver;  Carlotta.  Leni 
Stengel;  General  Bogardus,  Stanley  Fields;  King 
Oscar,    Harvey    Clark;    Revolutionist,    Boris    Karloff. 

"BEHIND  OFFICE  DOORS'— Radio  Pictures. 
— From  the  story  "Private  Secretary"  by  Alan 
Brener  Schultz.  Adapted  by  Carey  Wilson.  Di- 
rected by  Melville  Brown.  The  cast:  Mary  Linden, 
Mary  Astor;  James  Duneen,  Robert  Ames;  Ronnie 
Wales,  Ricardo  Cortez;  Dolores  Kohan,  Kitty 
Kelly;  Daisy  Presby,  Edna  Murphy;  Ellen  Robinson, 
Catherine  Dale  Owen;  Ritler,  Charles  Sellon;  Robin- 
son, William  Morris. 

"BODY  AND  SOUL"— Fox.— From  the  play 
"Squadrons"  by  Elliott  White  Springs  and  A.  E. 
Thomas.  Adapted  by  Jules  Furthman.  Directed  by 
Alfred  Santell.  The  cast:  Mai  Andrews,  Charles 
Farrell;  Carla,  Elissa  Landi;  Jim  Watson,  Humphrey 
Bogart;  Tap  Johnson,  Donald  Dillaway;  Alice  Lester, 
Myrna  Loy;  Major  Burke,  Crauford  Kent;  General 
Tr afford- J 'ones,  Ian  MacLaren;  Lieut.  Meggs,  Dennis 
D' Auburn;  Zane,  Douglas  Dray;  Young,  Harold 
Kinney;  Sam  Douglas,  Bruce  Warren. 

"BY  ROCKET  TO  THE  MOON"— UFA.— From 
the  novel  "Frau  In  Mond"  by  Thea  von  Harbou. 
Directed  bv  Fritz  Lang.  The  cast:  Professor  George 
Manfeldt.  Klaus  Pohl;  Wolf  Helius,  Willy  Fritsch; 
Hans  Windeggtr,  Gustav  V.  Wangenheim;  Friede 
Velten,  Gerda  Maurus;  Gustav,  Gustl  Starck  Gstetten- 
baur;  Alias  Wall  Turner,  Fritz  Rasp;  Mrs.  Hippoll, 
Margaret  Kupfer;  Groljan,  Max  Maximilian;  A 
Flower  Girl,  Alexa  V.  Porembska;  Chief  of  the  Helius 
Hangars,  Gerhard  Dammann. 

"CHARLIE  CHAN  CARRIES  ON"— Fox.— 
From  the  novel  by  Earl  Derr  Biggers.  Adapted  by 
Philip  Klein  and  Barry  Connors.  Directed  by 
Hamilton  MacFadden.  The  cast:  Charlie  Chan, 
Warner  Oland;  Mark  Kennaway,  John  Garrick; 
Pamela  Poller,  Marguerite  Churchill;  Max  Minchin, 
Warren  Hymer;  Sadie  Minchin,  Marjorie  Wrhite; 
John  Ross,  C.  Henry  Gordon;  Patrick  Tail,  William 
Holden;  Capt.  Ronald  Keane,  George  Brent;  In- 
spector Duff,  Peter  Gawthorne;  Dr.  Lofton,  John  T. 
Murray;  Elmer  Benbow,  John  Swor;  Mrs.  Benbcrw, 
Goodee  Montgomery;  Walter  Honywood,  Jason  Ro- 
bards;  Inspector  Hanley,  Lumsden  Hare;  Mrs. 
Luce.  Zeffie  Tillbury;  Sybil  Conway,  Betty  Francisco; 
Kent,  Harry  Beresford;  Martin,  John  Rogers:  Eben, 
J.  G.  Davis;  Liner  Caplain,  James  Farley. 

"CHILDREN  OF  DREAMS"— Warners.—  From 
the  story  by  Oscar  Hammerstein  II.  Directed  by 
Alan  Crosland.  The  cast:  Molly  Standing,  Margaret 
Schilling;  Tommy  Melville,  Jr.,  Paul  Gregory;  Gus 
SchultZ,  Tom  Patricola;  Hubert  Standing,  Bruce 
Winston;  Dr.  Joe  Thompson,  Charles  Winninger: 
Gertie,   Marion   Byron. 

"CONNECTICUT  YANKEE,  A"— Fox.— From 
the  story  "A  Connecticut  Yankee  in  King  Arthur's 
Court"  by  Mark  Twain.  Adapted  by  William 
Conselman.  Directed  by  David  Butler.  The  cast: 
Hank  (Sir  Boss),  Will  Rogers;  King  Arthur,  William 
Farnum;  Alisande,  Maureen  O'Sullivan;  Clarence, 
Frank  Albertson;  Queen  Morgan  Le  Fay,  Myrna 
Loy;  Sagramor,  Mitchell  Harris;  Merlin,  Brandon 
Hurst. 

"CONQUERING  HORDE,  THE"— Paramount. 
— From  the  story  by  Emerson  Hough.  Adapted  by 
William  Slavens  McNutt  and  Grovcr  Jones.  Directed 
by  Edward  Sloman.  The  cast:  Dan  Mc Masters, 
Richard  Arlen;  Tasie  Lockharl,  Fay  Wray;  Jim 
Nabours,  Claude  Gillingwater;  Marvin  Fletcher,  Ian 
MacLaren;  Stud  Grogan,  Frank  Rice,  Lumpy  Lorri- 
gan,  Arthur  Stone;  Cinco  Centavos,  George  Mcndoza; 
Mr.  Corley,  James  Durkin;  John,  Charles  Stevens; 
Splint  Coggin,  Edwin  J.  Brady;  Digger  Hale,  Robert 
Kortman;  Butch  Daggett,  Harry  Cording;  White 
Cloud.  Chief  Standing  Bear;  Captain  Wilkins,  John 
Elliott;  Mrs.  Corley,  Kathrin  Clare  Ward. 

"DOCTORS'  WIVES"— Fox.— From  the  novel 
by  Henry  and  Sylvia  Lieferant.  Adapted  by  Mau- 
rineW  alkins.  Directed  by  Frank  Borzage.  Thecast: 
Dr.  Jude  Penning,  W'arncr  Baxter;  Nina  Wyndram, 
Joan  Bennett;  Dr.  Kane  Ruylcr,  Victor  Yarconi; 
Vivian  Crosby,  Helene  Millard;  Dr.  Calucci,  Paul 
Porcasi;  Julia  Wyndram,  Nancy  Gardner;  Dr.  Mark 
Wyndram,  John  Sainpolis;  Aunt  Amelia.  Cecelia 
Loftus;  Dr.  Roberts,  George  Chandler;  Lou  Roberts, 
Violet  Dunn;  Charlotte.  Ruth  Warren;  Mrs.  Kent, 
Louise  Mackintosh;  Rudie,  William  Maddox. 

"DON'T  BET  ON  WOMEN"— Fox.— From  the 
story  "All  Women  Are  Bad"  by  William  Anthony 
McGuire.  Screen  play  by  I.ynn  Starling  and  Leon 
Gordon.  Directed  by  William  K.  Howard.  The 
cast:  Roger  Fallon,  Edmund  Lowe;  Jeanne  Drake, 
Jeanette  Mac  Donald;  Herbert  Drake.  Roland  Young; 
TaUulah  Hope,  Una  Merkel;  Chipley  Duff,  J.  M. 
Kerrigan;  Port's  Brent,  Helene  Millard;  Butterfield, 
Henry   Kolker. 


"DRUMS  OF  JEOPARDY.  THE"— Tiffany 
Productions. — Prom  the  novel  by  Harold  Mao- 
Grath.  Continuity  by  Florence  Rycrson.  Directed 
by  George  B.  Sciiz.  The  cast:  Boris  Karlov,  Warner 
Oland;  Kitty  Conover,  June  Colly er;  Prince  Nicholas 
Pelroff,  Lloyd  Hughes,  General  Petroff,  George  Faw- 
cett;  Prince  Ivan,  Ernest  Hilliard;  Prince  Gregor, 
Wallace  MacDonald;  Martin  Kent.  Hale  Hamilton; 
Anya  Karlov,  Florence  Lake;  Peter,  Mischa  Auer; 
Aunt  Abbie,  Clara  Blandick;  Tazie,  Ann  Brody. 

"EAST  LYNNE"— Fox.— From  the  novel  by 
Mrs.  Henry  Wood.  Screen  play  by  Bradley  King 
and  Tom  Barry.  Directed  by  Frank  Lloyd.  Tl  • 
Lady  Isabel.  Ann  Harding;  Robert  Carlyle,  Conrad 
Nagel;  Caplain  Levison,  Clive  Brook;  Cornelia 
Carlyle,  Cecelia  Loftus;  Lord  Mount  Severn.  O.  P. 
Heggie;  Sir  Richard  Hale,  David  Torrence;  Barbara, 
Flora  Sheffield;  Joyce,  Beryl  Mercer;  Dodson,  J. 
Gunnis  Davis;  William,  as  a  baby,  Ronald  Cosbey; 
William,  later,  Wallie  Albright. 

"FINN  AND  HATTIE"— Paramount.— From 
the  book  by  Donald  Ogden  Stewart.  Adapted  by 
Sam  Mintz.  Directed  by  Norman  Taurog  and 
Norman  McLeod.  The  cast:  Finley  Pierpont  Had- 
dock, Leon  Errol;  Mrs.  Hatlie  Haddock.  ZaSu  Pitts; 
Mildred  Haddock,  Mitzi  Green;  Sidney,  Jackie 
Searl;  The  Princess.  Lilyan  Tashman;  Collins.  Regis 
Toomey;  Boltin,  Mack  Swain;  Street  Cleaner,  Harry 
Beresford;  Brakeman,  Sid  Saylor;  Aunt  Lelty.  Louis 
Mackintosh;  Divorcee,  Ethel  Sutherland ;  Taxi  Driver, 
Eddie  Dunn. 

"FIRES  OF  YOUTH"— Universal.— From  the 
story  by  Monta  Bell.  Directed  by  Monta  Bell.  The 
cast:  Robert  Marshall,  Lew  Ayres;  Myra  Deane, 
Genevieve  Tobin;  William  Winter,  Purnell  B.  Pratt; 
Herk,  Kenneth  Thomson;  Collins,  Frank  McHugh; 
Mrs.  Marshall.  Dorothy  Peterson;  Robert  Marshall 
'as  a  boy),  Freddie  Burke  Frederick;  Annabtlle, 
Betty  Jane  Graham;  Annabelle's  Mother,  Aileen 
Manning;  City  Editor,  Frederic  Burt;  Colored 
Il'oman.  Louise  Beavers;  Mrs.  Winter,  Julia  Swayne 
Gordon;  Miss  Winter,  Polly  Ann  Young. 

"GIRL  FROM  THE  REEPERBAHN.  THE" 
(DAS  MAEDEL  VON  DER  REEPERBAHN"  — 
Sonor  Production. — From  the  story  by  Benno 
Vigny.  Directed  by  Karl  Anton.  The  cast:  Vwe 
Bull,  Hans  Von  Schlettow;  Hanna.  Olga  Tschckova; 
Jens,  Josef  Rowensky;  Margot,  Trude  Berliner; 
Pepito,  Andre  Pilot. 

"GIRLS  DEMAND  EXCITEMENT"— Fox.— 
From  the  story  by  Harlan  Thompson.  Directed  by 
Seymour  Felix.  The  cast:  Peter  Brooks,  John  Wayne; 
Joan  Madison,  Virginia  Cherrill;  Miriam,  Mar- 
guerite Churchill;  Freddie,  William  Janney;  Horrid 
Mundy,  Martha  Sleeper;  Gazella  Perkins,  Helen 
Jerome  Eddy;  Freshman,  David  Rollins;  Simeon, 
Ralph  Welles;  Margery,  Marion  Byron;  Tommy, 
Eddie  Nugent;  Sheik  Nevins,  Terrance  Ray;  Mr. 
Madison.  George  Irving;  The  Dean,  Winter  Hall; 
Bobby  Cruikshank,  Emerson  Treacy;  Sue  Street, 
Addie  McPhail;  Joe,  Jerry  Mandy. 

"HELL  BOUND" — Cruse-Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— From  the  story'  "Platinum"  by  Edward 
Dean  Sullivan  and  Adele  Comanaini.  Continuity  by 
Julian  Josephson.  Directed  by  Walter  Lang.  The 
cast:  Nick  Corlelli,  Leo  Carrillo;  Platinum  Reed, 
Lola  Lane;  Dr.  Sanford,  Lloyd  Hughes;  Dorgan, 
Ralph  Ince;  Rosie,  Gertrude  Astor;  Gilbert,  Richard 
Tucker;  Gaspipe,  Harry  Strang;  Omaha,  Marty 
Faust;  Ham.  Babe  Lawrence;  Sanford's  sister, 
Helene  Chadwick;  Bat.  Jack  Grey. 

"HOLE  IN  THE  WALL.  THE"  (NAR  ROSOR- 
NA  SLA  UT)— Paramount.— Directed  by  Edvin 
Adolphson.  The  cast:  Marguerite.  Margita  Alven; 
Andre,  Uno  Henning;  Charlotte,  Karin  Swanstrom; 
Greven,  Nils  Wahlbom;  Anatole,  Sven  Garbo;  Jano, 
Anna  Lisa  Baude;  Tradgardsmaslaren,  Viking  Ring- 
heim;  Kammarjungfrun,  Elso  Marie  Hansen; 
Maskinskriverskan,    Elsa  de   Castro. 

"IT  PAYS  TO  ADVERTISE"— Paramount  — 
From  the  play  by  Roi  Cooper  Megrue  and  Walter 
Hackett.  Adapted  by  Arthur  Kober.  Directed  by 
Frank  Tuttle.  The  cast:  Rodney  Martin,  Norman 
Foster;  Mary  Grayson,  Carole  Lombard;  Ambrose 
Peale,  Skeets  Gallagher;  Cyrus  Martin,  Eugene 
Pallettc;  Andrew  Adams,  Lucicn  Littleficld;  Com- 
lesse  de  Beaurien,  Helen  Johnson;  Thelma  Temple, 
Louise  Brooks;  Donald  McChesney,  Morgan  Wallace; 
Miss  Burke,  Marcia  Manners;  Perkins.  Tom  Ken- 
nedy; Office  Boy,  Junior  Coghlan;  Johnson,  John 
Howell;    Window  Cleaner,  John  Sinclair. 

"JUNE  MOON" — Paramount. — From  the  play 
by  Ring  Lardner  and  George  S.  Kaufman.  Adapted 
by  Keene  Thompson.  Directed  by  Edward  Suther- 
land. The  cast:  Fred  Stevens,  Jack  Oakie;  Edna 
Baker,  Frances  Dee;  Lucille  Sears.  Wynne  Gibson; 
Maxie  Schwartz.  Harry  Akst;  Eileen  Fletcher.  June 
MacClov;  Paul  Sears.  Ernest  Wood;  Young  Gocbel, 
Harold  Waldridge;  Mr.  Hart.  Sam  Hardy;  Goldie. 
Ethel  Sutherland;  Window  Cleaner.  Frank  Darien; 
Miss  Rixey.  Jean  Bary;  Joe  McCloskey.  Eddie  Dunn. 

"KEPT  HUSBANDS"— Radio  Pictures.— From 
the  story  by  Louis  Sarccky.  Adapted  by  Alfred 
Jackson  and  Forrest  Halsey.  Directed  by  Lloyd 
Bacon.  The  cast:  Dot,  Dorothy  Mackaill;  Dick.  Joel 
McCrea;  Parker.  Robert  McWade;  Mrs.  Parker. 
Florence  Roberts;  Mrs.  Posl.  Clara  Kimball  Young; 
Mrs.    Brunton.    Man'    Carr;    Gwen,    Lita    Chevret: 


Nice 

Unblemished 

Clear 

Smooth 

Skin 


WHY  HAVE 

Ugly  Pores, 

enlarged. 
and    full    »f 

UNSIGHTLY 
BLEMISHES, 


when  .inn  i.in  ii<>  n    in  i  Ur  (linn  lll-.i  |i|n;ir  1 1 1 1  -.  ne». 

.  1-1    u.ii  ! 


w 


READ  FREE  OFFER  BELOW! 


ORRV   no   more   over  skill    trottblaa   BAlch    as 

rough    -Lin    Mil"*   complexion,   blackheads,  en- 
i   minor  surface   Irritatloni 
now    you    ran    in  i!>i'    them    illxaiipe  u 
;ii    the    tame    time    relieve    the    discomfort    and 
Itching    and    promote   the    healing   "f    such 
tlUorders    i-    "implc    i  le,    postules,    etc. 

M. in  li  u      unblemished,    smooth    akin 

in. I  healthy-looking  complexion — yourself,  nt 
home.  Tour  friends  will  wonder  how  yon  ilul 
11 — ami    lt-11    tluni    il   ynu    wlah. 

Tim    ni'W.    quick    »  iv    i-i    now    explaj 1    in    a 

wonderfully  Illustrated  nook  called.  '  INNER 
MYSTERIES    til-'    THE    SKIN."    which    is   being 

1  to  all  reader*  of  llm  I 
l.l'TKI.V  FREE  mil  postpaid  So  i|int  >•. mi- 
ring and  Kpendlng  money  on  useless  treat- 
ments and  write  for  tin*  free  help  Send  do 
money  ju-.i  name  nnd  address  to  wltolex  Co.. 
n.  ,.i  -  Eighth  Are  .  New  Tork,  N  Y 
Il  will  i-i.iiii-  in  plain  wrapper,  postpaid 
FREE  I  I. earn  this  new  secret  of  removing 
your  .skin  blemishes  yourself,  it  home,  then  ti-ll 
yuur  friends  the  - I  news  I — AdTertlsement, 


What  $2.50 

Will  Bring  You 

In  twelve  numbers  of  Photo- 
play Magazine,  hundreds  of 
pictures  of  photoplayers  and 
illustrations  of  their  work  and 
pastime. 

Scores  of  interesting  articles 
about  the  people  you  see  on 
the  screen. 

Splendidly  written  short  stories, 
some  of  which  you  will  sec  acted 
at  your  moving  picture  theater. 
Brief  reviews  of  current  pictures 
with  full  casts  of  stars  playing. 
The  truth  and  nothing  hut  the 
truth,  about  motion  pictures,  the 
stars,  and  the  industry. 
You  have  read  this  issue  of  Photo- 
play, so  there  is  no  necessity  for 
telling  you  that  it  is  one  of  the 
most  superbly  illustrated,  the  best 
written  and  most  attractively 
printed  magazines  published  today 
— and  alone  in  irs  field  of  motion 
pictures. 

Send  a  money  order  or  check  for  $2.50 

{Canada  $3.00;  Foreign  $3.50} 

addressed  to 

Photoplay  Magazine 

Dept.  H-14, 919  No.  Michigan  Av.,  CHICAGO 

and    receive    the    next    issue    and    slew 
issues    thereafter. 


I'lioiniM  w    M  \(.\/r.  \i-kii.,    1931 

;/■.  B  i     .  Eh    . •■'  '■'       burn;  IsV. 

1  r.-.  111.111  \\ 

"KM  v  by 

Andre   Pfc  ard      Prom  the 
Adaplrd   and  directed   by  Sam    I 
Kiln.     Man      Plckfordi     Victor    Kendall.    !<■ 
Denny;    Alfred    I  li    (  awthorn;    PaulttU 

I  in/i-.     Margaret     Livingston;     Eddie,     Phil 
...  Fred  Walton;  l>r.  smiley.  Edwin  Ma 

"LADY  REFUSES,    I  Hi       Radio  I'n  n 
Prom  ■  Robert  Milton  and  Guj    Bolton. 

I   b)    wallai  i    Smil  I 

■     June  1 ... 
Mr   Grratd   ■ 

•  v.  John  Darrow  WaUer,   M  ■ 

Livingston;     Niehotai     Rabinof,      Ivan      l 

Daphne     Pollard; 
.  Reginald  Saarland. 

■i.iTTi.i-:  c  mi-.  Tin: '   i  i    PETI1   <  \i  i 
I'.ik.iM.iisi.    -From  the  pla!  I        in   Bernard 

Adapted  bj    Vincent   I  1   BalaiUe-Henrl 

Ludwig  Berger.     The  cast    Atom 
tan,  Mauri..-  (  hevalicr;    Yuonne  Phihhrrt,  Yvonne 
vallee;  \I1U.  Her,-  Kcdor;  Pierce  Bourdin, 

Andre    Berley;    Philiberi,    Bmlle    Chautard;    HIU. 
Pout     htiehel,    >■ 
la*,  Cadatux,  Jaquet  Jou-JervUle. 

"LONELY  VvTVES"  -I'm  in  . — l-r..in  il,-  play 
by  Waltei   1 1  Directed  by   Russell   Mat  k. 

t     Mr.  Smith.  Edward  Everett  Horton;   Mi 
Smith,    Esther    Ralston;    Dions,    Laura    i  .    Plant* ; 
Minter,     Patsy     kmii     Miller;  encei 

Charters;    Ur<.    Mantel.    Man. I.-    Eburne;    Musette, 

■VI-:  HABIT, THE" — Barrata  limwuTionu. 
bj    1  ouis  v.  rn.tiil.     Adapted  by 
Seymour    Hicks  and   Val   Valentine,     Directed   by 
Harry  l.uliman.    Tin-  cast:  Juitland  Abetand 
iii.uir     links-     Julie     Dubai  name; 

Alphonst   Dubois,    Edmund    Breon;    Mar    Quantro, 
Waiter   Armitage;    Rom    Pois    I'om.    Ui 
hdalhUde,  1  •!  r;  Saniarelli,  Clifford  Heath- 

er ley. 

"MIDNIGHT  SPEC1  \l..  THE"— CHnrnn  ld 
Production,  -From  the  story  by  Arthur  Hoerl. 
Directed  by  Duke  Worne.      I 

Glenn  Tryon;  l-.llen  Horboawi,  Merna  Kennedy;  Dun 
<:.    Tom    O'Brien;    Mri.    Boon*,    Mar-.    I 
Walton,  Richard  Kane;  Billy  lupine.  Norman 
Phillips,    lr.;   y... .    Jimmy    Aubrey;    Mr.    Ilarhoard, 
Phillips  Smalley;  Psls,  Buckie  Whitford. 

"MOTHER'S  MILLION'S"  —  Liberty  Pro- 
ductions. -From  the  ~i..r\  t>v  Howard  McKent 
Harms.  Adapted  by  Winifred  Dunn.  Directed  by 
James  Flood.    The  cast:  Harriet  Breen,  May  Robson; 

David    Talhot.    James    Hall;     Tnm    lireen.    Lawi 
Gr.i\;  Pair*  Brtt*,   1-r.i  William  Reming- 

ton. Edmund  Breese;  Maria  PePpy,  Lillian  llarm.r; 
Mr':.   Talhot,  Leah  Wlnslow;   Petty,   Elinor  Flynn; 

Detective  liurke.   W.    L.    Thorn.-. 

NOT  EXACTLY  GENTLEMEN"— Fox.— 
From  the  novel  "Over  the  Border"  by  Herman 
Whitaker.    Continuity  by  Emmett  Flynn,    Directed 

by  Benjamin  Stoloff.  The  east:  Hull  Stanley.  \'ietor 
l.n;  l.ee  Carlelon.  l-'av  Wrav;  Ac*  Beaudrv. 
Lew  Cody;  Layne  Hunter.  Rolnrt  Warwick;  Nelson, 
Frankly n  Farnum:  Bruce.  David  Worth;  Bronco 
Idle  Grlbbon;  BuWs  Girl.  Carol  Wines: 
Act's  Girl,  Joyce  Compton;  Broncos  Girl,  I 
Huntington;    Marshall    Dunn,    James    Farley, 

"PARLOR,  BEDROOM  AND  BATH"— M-G-M. 
— From  the  play  b]  (  harlesW.  Bell  and  Mark  Swan. 
Adapted  by  Richard  Schayer.    Directed  by  Edward 

Sedgwick,        The     cast:      Reginald     Irving,      Buster 

Kr.it. m;    Pollv    Balkan/ay,    Charlotte    Green* 

Haywood.  Reginald  Denny;  Bell  Hop.  Cliff 
Edwards;  Angelica  Esutrty,  Dorothy  Christy;  Nita 
Leslie,   Joan    I'.-.rs;    Virginia    Embrey,   Sally    Eilers: 

Leila  Crofton.   Natalie  Moorhead;   /  I  ward 

Ilrophy;  Frederick  Leslie.  Walter  Merrill;  Huller. 
Sidney  Bracy. 

"RIDIN"  FOOL.  THF."— Tiffany  Prodictiov;. 
— From  the  story  bv  Wellyn  Totman.  Directed  bv 
J.    P.    McCarthy.      Ti  ess    Kendall.    Bob 

Steele;  Sally  Warren.  Frances  M'-rris;  IioHon  Harry. 
Ted     Adams;      Hud      Warren.      Eddie      Feathers. on; 
Juanilz.  Josephine  Vel.-z;  .UitS  Scully,  Fern  Emmett; 
Ma    Il'.irrcn.   Florence   Turner;  Col,    Butterfiri: 
Henderson;     Sheriff    Anderson.     Gordon     De   ' 
S'ikkos,    A.    Bri.l. 

"SIN'GLE  SIN.  THE"— Tiffavy  PRODUCTIONS.— 

From  the  story  by  A.  P.  Younger.  Continuity  by 
Frances  Hyland.     Directed  by  William  Nigh 

Ksfs  Adams,  Kay  Johnson;  Av  Strickland. 
Bert  Lytell;  Slug.  Paul  Hurst;  Frank  ft 
Mathew  Betz;  Roger  Van  Dorn.  Holmes  Herbert: 
Marian.  Geneva  Mitchell;  French  Maid.  Sandra 
Ravel;  Butler.  Charles  McN'aughton;  Cook.  Lillian 
Elliott;  Detective,  Robert  Emmett  O'Connor. 

"STOLEN"  HEAVEN"— Paramount.— From  the 

story  by  Dana  Burn.  t.  Adapted  and  directed  by 
Cn-orge    Abbott.  v    Carroll: 

Joe.  Phillips  Holr  I   iuis  Calhern;  Morgan. 

Edward  Keane;  Mrs.  Woodbridge-Woody,  Joan  Carr; 
Harvey.  G.  Albert  Smith;  Dorothea.  Dagmar  Oak- 
land; Police  Commissioner,  Guy   Kibbee. 

"3  GIRLS  LOST"— Fox.— From  the  story  by 
Robert  D.  Andrews.  Screen  play  by  Bradley  King. 
Directed  by  Sidney  Lanfield.  The  cast:  Nona 
Mc Mann,  Loretta  Young;  Gordon  Wales.  John  Wayne; 
William  Marriott.  Lew  Cody;  Edna  Best,  Joyce 
Compton;  Marcia  Tallant.  Joan  Marsh;  Mrs.  McGee, 
Kathrin  Clare  Ward;  Tony,  Paul  Fix;  Andre,  Andre 
Be  ranger. 


'45 


"Ghic  (Rale— The 

Specialist 


interview* 

Granny 

White  A 


THK  first  hundred  years  art-  the 
hardest,"  lez  Granny  \\  bite, 
as  she  hupped  in  her  yellow  roadster 
to  <:<)  to  the  miniature  ^olf  course. 
"After  that  you  arc  kept  smilin'  ai>' 
happy  fer  another  fifty  by  folks  askin' 
how  you  lived  a  hundred. 

1  esterday  I  had  my  picture  made 
usin'  an  automatic  churn  an'  today 
I'm  to  test  some  roller  skates.  I  ..- 
morrow  I'll  be  tryin'  out  the  steerin' 
wheel  on  a  new  threshin  machine  or 
showin'  how  easy  a  portable  duck 
huntin'  canoe  or  a  collapsible  music 
rack  unfolds. 

"All  these  things  add  to  the  length 
of  life,  but  I  wouldn't  be  here  to  en- 
joy 'em  if  it  wasn't  fer  those  little 
chocolate  tablets. 

An'  she  stepped  on  the  gas  an'  down 
the  road  she  went. 
\> 


MILLIONS  like  those  little  choco- 
late tablets"  not  only  for  their 
delightful  flavor — but  for  the  important 
part  they  play  in   keeping  them  well. 

Ex-Lax  is  simply  delicious  choco- 
late combined  with  the  scientific  laxa- 
tive ingredient,  phenolphrhalein,  of  the 
ri»;ht  quality,  in  the  riijht  proportion, 
in  the  right  dose. 

Ex-Lax  is  safe,  eentle,  effective — for 

every  age.  At  druggists--  10c,  25c,  50c. 

Keep  "regular"  with 

EX-LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


r^T")    i~s  |"~>  Complete  »<-t  of 

r  K  r  r   "^:-;i>    jalb sayings 

■     AX.J— /S_/        ind  s»mplc  of  Ex-L»x 


Street  and  \  . 
C"7 


Mill  this  coupon  to  The  Ex. Lax  Co.,  Dept.  PH-41 
P.O.  Box  irr.  Times  PUza  Stj.,  Brooklyn,  \  V. 


Tke  Greatest  Actress 


ZaSu  Fitts  gave  a  fine  per- 
formance as  Lew  Ayres' 
mother  in  "All  Quiet."  But  a 
preview  crowd  tittered,  and 
she  was  replaced 


ERIC  VOX  STROHEIM. 
whom  Hollywood  calls  its 
greatest  directorial  genius 
(and  then  makes  it  hard  for 
him  to  get  a  job)  says  that  ZaSu 
Pitts  is  the  greatest  actress  of  the 
motion  picture  and  one  of  its  few 
great  tragediennes. 

Incidentally,  and  modestly, 
Photoplay  proclaimed  this  ten 
years  ago. 

Backing  up  his  judgment  with 
action,  Von  Stroheim  chose  ZaSu 
for  important  roles  in  his  master- 
pieces, "Greed"'  and  "The  Wed- 
ding March." 

But  Hollywood  persists  in 
typing  her  as  a  comic. 

Lewis  Milestone  chose  her  to 
play  Lew  Ayres'  mother  in  "All 
Quiet  on  the  Western  Front." 
She  gave  a  great  performance. 
But  she  has  played  comedy  parts 
so  much  that  when  "All  Quiet" 
was  previewed  in  a  Los  Angeles 
theater  the  audience  tittered  at 
her  most  tragic  scenes.  Panic- 
stricken,  the  producers  retook  all 
her  scenes,  using  Beryl  Mercer,  a 
middle-aged  character  woman 
who  is  another  great  actress,  in 
the  part. 

WHEN"  ZaSu  Pitts  came  to 
Hollywood  she  was  a  funny 
looking  girl  who  rode  a  bicycle  and 
ate  apples  and  didn't  have  any  sex 
appeal.  At  least,  that  was  the 
rumor  around  town. 

She  lived  at  the  Studio  Club  and 
kept  the  girls  there  in  hysterics 
whenever  she  moved  those  long 
hands  of  hers. 

And  then,  onenight.shemetand 
danced  with  Tom  Gallery  and  he 
thought  she  had  sex  appeal.  The 
romance  flourished  and  they  were 
married. 

Von  Stroheim  had  never  seen 
ZaSu.    He  didn't  know  that  in  the 

146 


in  Hollywood,  says 
Von  Stroheim,  is 
ZaSu  Pitts.  But 
the  audience  laughs 
when  she  appears 
on  the  screen 


*n> 


The  unforgettable  beaten  bride  of 
"Greed" — the  girl  who  triumphed  in 
the  limping  "Wedding  March"  —  the 
trouper  who  has  stolen  a  hundred 
pictures  from  great  stars  —ZaSu  Pitts. 
It's  the  sad  and  wistful  face  of  a  true 
tragedienne,  yet  audiences  remember 
her  comedy — and  laugh! 


Lew  Ayres  and  the  mother 
we  saw  on  the  screen,  Beryl 
Mercer,  in  a  scene  from  "All 
Quiet."  She  replaced  ZaSu 
Pitts  in  the  role 


stereotyped  minds  of  the  pro- 
ducers she  was  a  comedienne.  But 
had  he  known,  he  would  not  have 
cared  a  Teutonic  toot. 

In  spite  of  all  the  mumblings  of 
the  producers — "that  ridiculous 
Von  Stroheim  again,  putting  a 
comic  in  a  dramatic  role" — ZaSu 
was  given  the  part  of  Trina  in 
"  Greed."  It  was  during  the  time 
she  worked  for  him  that  Von 
realized  her  sublimity  as  an 
actress. 

"But,"  he  said,  "you've  never 
seen  her  on  the  screen  as  I  saw 
her.  I  consider  that  I've  only 
made  one  real  picture  in  my  life 
and  nobody  saw  that.  Its  poor, 
mangled,  mutilated  form  you  saw 
in  a  theater  one  evening  and  it 
was  called  '  Greed.'  " 

THERE  are  a  handful  of  men 
who  still  speak  in  hushed  tones 
of  a  terrific  experience  that  oc- 
curred to  them  in  a  projection 
room  when  the  first  cut  of  "Greed" 
was  shown. 

It  ran  for  ten  hours. 

And  it  was  in  this  picture,  Von 
Stroheim's  greatest,  the  picture 
you  never  saw,  that  ZaSu  Pitts 
did  the  magnificent  work  you 
never  saw. 

"The  average  person  thinks  she 
is  funny  looking,"  says  Von 
Stroheim.  "  I  think  she  is  beauti- 
ful, more  beautiful  than  the 
famous  beauties  of  the  screen,  for 
I  have  seen  in  her  eyes  all  the 
vital  forces  of  the  universe  and  I 
have  seen  in  her  sensitive  mouth 
all  of  the  suppressions  of  human- 
kind. I've  seen  her  lifted  to  the 
heights  of  great  acting.  Art  must 
w;ep  when  ZaSu  Pitts  plays  a 
comedy  role. 

"She  should  not  be  in  comedy 
for  she  is  the  greatest  of  all 
tragediennes." 


front   Oklahoma 

brought  mo 
tliis  complexion   nen  *» 


T  </»  get  the  warmest,  friend- 
liest, most  interesting  letters 
in  answer  to  these  Camay 

article-,  of  mine. 

Just  this  minute  one  came 
from  Holdenville,  Oklahoma, 
And  it's  such  a  very  nice  lit  ter 
thai  I  want  to  reail  snatches 

of  it   to  all  of  you.    After  ti 
ing  me  that   --In'  started  lining 

Camay  on  the  advice  of  a 

friend  whose  lovely,  clear  skill 

she  had  alwaj  b  envied,  the 
writer  says: 

"\  on  sec,  I  am  indoors  and 
Outdoors,  in  the  sim  and  the 
dry  prairie  wind,  and  in  the 
steamy  kitchen.  So  it  is  a 
real    problem   to   find   a    soap 

thai  w  ill  keep  my  akin  clean 

and  not  dry  it  out  too  much. 

'*  I  don't  care  for '  peril  m  ie-y' 

soaps.  I  nit  the  delicate  llower- 

scent  of  Camay  is  really  most 
pleasing.    I  like  Camay  be- 

cause  it  is  pure  and  mild,  and 

because  it  gives  that  delight- 
ful, dainty  cleanliness  that  I 
lose.  In  fact.  I  like  Camay!" 

And  die  adds;  '"Our  whole 

family  like  Camay  as  well  as 
I  do.   It  is  free-lathering,  hut 

hard-milled,  so  it  is  economi- 
cal lor  the  children  (who  be- 
long to  the  Ancient  ami 
Honorable  Order  of  Soap- 
Soakers)  to  use." 

There!  Isn't  that  a  nice 
letter? 

And  actually  what  this  very 

charming  person  discovered 

about  Camay  is  just  what  T3 
of  the  most  eminent  derma- 
tologists in  America  dis- 
covered when  they  examined 
a  chemical  analysis  of  Camay 
and  made  careful,  scientific 
tests  of  Camay's  effect  on  all 
the  various  types  of  feminine 
complexions. 

If  you've  read  my  earlier 
Camay  articles,  you'll  remem- 


ber that  these  physicians  gave 
Camay  their  unanimous  ap- 
proval as  an  unusually  mild 
soap  the  right  kind  for  even 
the  most  delicate  complexions. 
Those  of  us  w  ho  have  made 
our  own  discovery  that  Camay 

is    the    perfect    BOap    for    our 

complexions  are  highly 
pleased,  I  know,  to  have  such 

authorities  agree  with  u>! 

And  those  of  you  w  ho  have 

yet    to   make    this    important 

complexion  discovery  can  fed 

equally  important    whin  you 

join  your  enthusiasm  to  the 
fir-t  scientific  approval  any 
soap  ever  had  in  all  history! 

Wluil  In  n  <l«'rniiiloloui»i  | 
The  titleof  dermatologist  properly 
belongs  only  to  registered  phy- 
sicians who  have  been  licensed  to 
practice  medicine  and  who  have 
adopted  tin-  science  of  dermatol- 
ogy (the  care  of  the  skin;  as  their 
special  pro\  ince. 

The  reputable  physician  is  the 
only  reliable  authority  for  scien- 
tific advice  upon  the  care  and 
treatment  of  the  skin. 

I  have  personally  examined  the 
signed  comments  from  ?:<  leading 
dermatologists  of  America  who 
have  approved  the  composition 
and  cleansing  action  of  Camay 
Soap.  I  certify  not  only  to  the 
high  standing  of  these  physicians, 
but  also  to  their  approval,  as 
stated  in  this  advertisement. 

*  o     y 

(The  78  leading  dermatolog-st*  who 
approved  C.im.iy  were  selected  l.y  Dr. 
PDiKy  who,  for  10  years,  ha*  been  the 
j  the  official  j.ujrn.il  of  the  der- 
matologists of  the  United  St 

Faro  Your  World  Willi 
LovcliiM'HN — is  a  free  book- 
let with  advice  about  skin  care 
from  73  leading  American  derma- 
tologists. Write  to  Helen  ( 
Dept.  YV-J1,  509  Fifth  Avenue, 
New  York  City. 


6  1931.  P.  &G   Co. 


CAMAY    IS    A    PROCTER    &    GAMBLE    SOAP     [CALLED    C'ALAY     I>     (AXADA]-IOe    A    CAKE 


6o5  out  of  613  important  Hollywood 
actresses  guard  coupon  beauty 
keep  lovely  with  Lux  ToiietSoap^ 


I 


MAY 


tary  Pickford 

n    Facing    Forty 


How  Norma  Shearer 

Got  What  She  Wanted 


I   made  a  speech 


to     M»H    girl* 


<  <niiii>  has  been  tested  and  ap- 
proved l»>  7  3  eminent  dermatolo> 
gists  — no  other  complexion  soap 
ever    had    such    medical    approval. 


What  In  a  il«i  •niatologisf  ? 

The  title  of  dermatologist  properly 
belongs  only  to  registered  phy- 
sicians who  have  been  licensed  to 
practice  medicine  and  who  have 

adopted  t  lit-  science  of  dermatol- 
ogy a  he  care  Of  the  skin)  as  their 
special  pro\  ince. 

The  reputable  physician  is  the 
Only  reliable  authority  for  scien- 
tific advice  upon  the  care  and 
treatment  of  the  skin. 

I  have  personally  examined  the 
sinned  comments  from  73  leading 

dermatologists  «  ho  have  approved 


the  composition  and  cleansing  ac- 
tion of  Camay  Soap  1  certif]  not 
only  to  the  high  standing  of  these 
physicians,  hut  also  to  their  ap- 
proval as  stated  in  this  advertise- 
ment. 

M.  D.  / 

(The  7:!  leading  dermatologists  "lm  ap- 
proved  Camay  were  selected  by  Dr. 
I'umv  who,  for  in  years,  lias  been  t lie 
editor  of  t lie  official  journal  of  American 
dermatology.) 


and  sjave  them 
l  In*  five  nile§  of 
completion  beauty  •  • 


I  DON'T  often   go    in   for 
stump-speaking.  With  my 
magazine  ami  newspaper 

writing  and  my  radio  talks, 
I  have  my  hands  full. 

But  I  made  an  exception 
this  one  time.  The  dean  of  a 
women's  college  wrote,  asking 
me  to  help  her  convince  her 
students  that  simple,  natural 
beauty  is  the  smartest,  as  well 
as  the  loveliest  kind. 

So  I  packed  my  five  rtilcs 
for  beauty  into  my  bag  along 
with  a  creamy  cake  of  my  fa- 
vorite Camay.  And  off  I  went. 

Here  are  the  rules  I  gave — 
rules  every  one  of  you  should 
take  to  heart,  if  you  want  a 
lovely  complexion: 

1.  Cleanliness — This  truly 
is  the  first  and  most  impor- 
tant step  in  any  beauty  treat- 
ment. Dermatologists  say  so 
— and  they  are  the  only  real 
authorities  on  complexion 
care,  you  know.  To  derma- 
tologists, perfect  cleanliness 
means  washing  with  soap  and 
water.  And  they  say  the  soap 
is  very  important. 

2.  Proper  Diet  —  eating 
simple  foods  that  you  like 
and  that  agree  with  you. 

3.  Sleep  —  an  average  of 
eight  hours. 

4.  Exercise — walking,  golf, 
tennis,  a  daily  dozen — any- 
thing active  (this  includes 
sweeping,  don't  forget  that!). 


5.  A  Happy  Frame  of 
.Mind  —  throwing  off  your 
worries  and  keeping  the  cor- 
ners of  your  mouth  turned  up. 

The  first  rule — cleanliness 
— is  so  important  that  I  want 
you  to  remember  it  particu- 
larly. For.  when  I  consulted 
73  eminent  dermatologists,  I 
found  that  these  physicians 
prescribed  a  thorough  cleans- 
ing with  a  gentle,  mild  soap 
as  the  first  and  most  impor- 
tant item  in  complexion  care. 

And  now  for  the  soap.  These 
same  physicians  examined  a 
chemical  analysis  of  Camay 
and  made  exhaustive  tests  of 
Camay's  effect  on  all  the  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  skin.  As  a  re- 
sult, they  gave  Camay  their 
unanimous  approval  as  ex- 
actly the  kind  of  soap  they 
would  recommend  for  even  the 
most  delicate  complexions. 

The  dean  writes  me  she  has 
already  noticed  an  improve- 
ment in  the  college  complex- 
ion. With  this  assurance  and 
the  recommendation  I  just 
gave  you.  do  you  need  any 
more  convincing  proof  that 
here  is  the  perfect  soap  for  you? 

Pace  Your  World  wills 
Lovt'liin'ss  is  a  free  booklet 
with  advice  about  skin  care  from 
7:1  leading  American  dermatol- 
ogists. Write  to  Helen  Chase, 
Dept.  YV-51,  509  Fifth  Avenue, 
New  York  City. 

8  1'.'31.  P.  AG.  Co. 


Camay    [I  allc.l    t'alav    in    Canada]    Is    a    Proctor    &    Gamblo    soap—  10c    a    cake 


PHOTOPLAI    M\..\/im:   k>k   May,    1931 


A      STAR      OF      THE      STAG  E 
AND     SCREEN     DISCOVERS 

.  ."pink  tooth   brush! 


// 


"T  DONT  like  it.    I  don't  like  it  at  all!    I 

■*•   admit  I've  noticed  it  before — but  then 

tbere  was  only  j  faint  trace  of 'pink*.  1  knew 

I  should  have  done  something  about  it,  then, 

ight  at  the  beginning. 

"And  my  teeth  have  gone  dull.  They  don't 

sparkle  any  more.  They're  dull  now — sort  of 

gray.    Probably   nobody   \\  dl   ever  say   nice 

things  about  my  teeth  again.  Perhaps  'pink. 


tooth  brush1  bai  something  to  do  With  that. 
"Hut  somew  lure  — .somewhere  — 1'\  e  beard 
how  to  Mop  this  'pink  tooth  brush'  business 
—  I  remember — massage  of  the  gums — with 
Ipana.  Yes,  Ipana.  Thank  goodness  I 
thought  ol  it.  Because  I  can  get  some  Ipana 
and  start  today  —  before  rehearsals  begin 
I'll  start  it  right  now  saying  goodbye  to  old 
'pink  tooth  brush'!" 


PAN  A     tooth    paste 


"/  don  I  like  U 

—  'pink  tooth  brush' 

—  I  don't  like  it  at  all."* 


Better  do  more  than  look  worried  when 
there1!  "pink"'  on  your  brush.  If  you  ate 
coarse  foods,  your  gums  would  get  all  the 
exercise  they  need.  But  you  eat  delicious 
foods  \\  hicli  melt  in  your  mouth,  and  \\  hi<  h 
give  your  gums  none  of  the  stimulation  they 
require  for  healthy  firmness.  Circulation 
flags  —  and  day  by  day  the  gums  become 
softer,  lazier,  more  tender. 

And  \>lule  the  first  trace  of  "pink"  on 
your  brush  is  nothing  to  get  excited  about, 
gums  which  continue  to  bleed  are  very  likely 
victims  to  various  gum  disorders,  such  as 
gingivitis,  or  Vincent's  disease — or  even  the 
less  frequent  but  dread  pyorrhea. 

"Pink  tooth  brush,"  neglected  can  be  re- 
sponsible for  the  loss  of  the  teeth's  natural 
brilliancy — and  may  even  lead  to  infection 
at  the  roots  of  your  teeth.  Then,  of  course, 
the  dentist  may  have  to  extract  teeth  which 
today  are  perfectly  sound. 

Yet  there's  a  simple,  inexpensive  way  to 
check  ''pink,  tooth  brush."'  Get  a  tube  of 
Ipana  Tooth  Paste.  Clean  your  teeth  with 
it  in  the  regular  way.  Then  —  put  some  ad- 
ditional Ipana  on  your  brush  and  lightly  mas- 
sage it  into  those  flabby,  tender  gums  of  yours. 

Ipana  contains  the  important  ziratol  which 
so  many  modern  dentists  use  for  toning  and 
stimulating  unhealthy  gums.  Within  a  few 
days  after  you  have  begun  to  use  Ipana  "  ith 
massage,  your  teeth  will  show  a  change. 
They're  cleaner  —  and  they  have  the  bril- 
liancy all  healthy  teeth  should  have.  It  may 
take  longer  before  your  gums  show  a  differ- 
ence. But  within  a  month  diey  will  become 
firmer,  harder,  healthier  than  ever  before. 


BRI'sTOI-MVFRS   CO ..  Pcpt.  I-'.l 
7  J  \\  est  Scrcct.  New  >,  cirk.  V  V. 

Kindly  send  me  a  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH 
PASTE.  Enclosed  is  a  two-cent  stamp  to  co»er 
partly  the  cost  of  packing  and  mailing. 

Same 


SlTttt 


DEFEATS  "PINK  TOOTH   BRUSH"    •    BRINGS  BEAUTY  TO  THE   MOUTH       at, Stmu 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


PHOTOPLAY 

T li e  W  <>  r  1 » I  *  -.  Leading  Motion  Picture  Publication 


\  1.  XXXIX  No.  6 

JAMBS  R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publisher                                Mi.,  1931 

Hijirli-Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close* Ups  and  Long-Shots JamssR.  Qdtbs 

Connie  and  Lilyan Katbbbihi    Uaaar 

New  HftJ  for  Swimming  mrirl  Sunning 

80 

J^jffl  X«  jSt 

i 
] 

The  Perils  of  Marlene i.konvhh  iiu.i. 

.;: 

^Wj^cIpR^Im 

Those  Awful  Reporters! Mildbbd  Spaln 

10 

^^E^S^S^SS  IC^SfiP 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  I  lolly  wood        .... 

n 

1 

How  Norma  Shearer  Go!  Whal  She  Wanted  .       .     Kathbb»b  Albbbt 

12,000  for  Your  Picture  [des 

Seymour     Photoplay's  Style  Authority 

.-.it 

60 

Winners   of    Photopl 

a  v 

ta  M.ir\  Paces  Forty Rotb  Bizbt 

67 

Magazine     Gold      Mei 
the    best    picture    of   t 

1920                       192  1 

Jal 
ne    y 

1926 

for 
ear 

Do  You  Want  a  Job  in  the  Studios? JkvwkNohtii 

68 

"HUMOR-          "The 

"BEAU 

Reeling  Around LbonabdHall 

78 

ESQUE"    COVERED 
WAGON" 

GESTE" 

A  Studio  Ramble Ebamcbi  Ebb 

1  Mi 

1921                        1924 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM 

1927 

"7th 

Photoplays  Famous  Reviews 

DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 

1^22                       192i                       I92S 

10 

"ROBIN      "THE  BIG 

"FOUR 

The  Shadow  Stage 

54 

HOOD"        PARADE" 

SONS" 

90 

"DISRAELI" 

Personalities 

o— — .  o 

Lights!    Camera!    Ready! 

38 

Information  and 

He  Has  Two  Bosses Habbt  i 

39 

Service 

Here  Comes  Tallulah! I'm      iD  stoh 

46 

Brickbats  and  Bouquet!   . 

c 

A  Melancholy  Wisecracker Habbt  Laxq 

58 

Friendly  Advice  on  Giris' 

Problems       .... 

is 
87 

A  Hollywood  Runaway Fambb  m.  K Mis- 

71 

Hollywood  Menus 

71 

Questions  and  Answers 

. 

9i 

Short  Stories 

Ham  Actor CbablbbJ  McGinn 

84 

Casts  of  Current  Pbotopl 

MS 

Attar  of  Roses Miuc;\hkt  e.-vm.^tkh 

17 

Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 
Editorial  Offices.  221  W.  57th  St..  New  York  City  Publishing  Office.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago.  111. 

The  International  News  Company.  Ltd..  DistributingAgents,  5  Bream's  Building.  London.  England 

James  R.  Quirk.  President  Robert  M.  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathryn  Dougherty.  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Moxico  and  Cuba;  $3.00  Canada;  $3.50  for  foreign  countries.     Remittances 

should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    Caution — Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  2-1.  1912.  at  the  Postofhce  at  Chicago.  Ill  .  under  the  Act  of  March  3.  1879. 

Copyright.  1931.  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company,  Chicago 


Brickbats  £?  Bouquets 


The  *25  Letter 

SOME  people  do  not  approve  of  motion 
pictures.  They  claim  they  put  ideas  into 
our  heads.  They  do!  They  have  put  a 
great  many  ideas  into  my  head.  When  I 
see  Norma  Shearer  I  long  to  have  a  little 
of  her  sophistication — to  be  able  to  wear 
clothes  like  that  wonderful  actress,  Joan 
Crawford,  and  have  some  of  her  poise.  I 
wish  I  had  half  the  vitality  that  bubbles 
forth  from  Clara  Bow  and  if  I  could  only 
look  as  sweet  and  have  such  a  sunny  smile 
as  Marilyn  Miller,  and  have  the  charming 
little-girl  voice  of  Una  Merkel,  how  happy  I 
would  be.  I  see  the  goodness  in  the  world 
in  Garbo's  eyes.  I  only  hope  that  I  can 
grow  old  as  beautifully  as  Irene  Dunne  in 
that  marvelous  picture,  "Cimarron,"  and 
have  the  loyalty  of  the  little  negro  boy. 

These   are   the    "ideas"    I   get   from    the 
movies. 

Genfvifve  Hartman, 
Oklahoma  City,  Okla. 

The  $10  Letter 

~C  PICS  have  their  place  in  the  mo\ie  world 
■*— '  — so  have  artistic  productions."  But 
the  good  old  stand-bys  are  comedies  and 
stories  of  young  lave.  Westerns  and  the  like. 
I  may  be  over-enthusiastic,  but  there  seems 
to  have  been  an  upward  trend  in  the  quality 
of  productions  during  the  past  season. 
William  R.  Batty, 
MiJJletown,  Conn. 

The  $5  Letter 

A  MOVIE  FAS S  PRAYER 

T   ORD.  I  would  like  to  have: 
■*-J   The  eyes  of  Claudette  Colbert — 
The  lashes  of  Joan  Crawford — 
The  hair  of  Jeanette  MacDonald — 
The  teeth   of  Dorothy  Mackaill — 
The  nose  of  Gloria  Swanson — 
The  style  of  Kay  Francis — 
The  charm  of  Marlene  Dietrich — 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Critics 

PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten  and   Five  Dollar  Prizes   for  the 

Best    Letters 


Just  plain  spiteful  letters  won't  be  printed,  for  we  want 
to  be  helpful  when  we  can.  Don't  write  more  than  200 
words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your  name 
and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't  write. 
Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  Photoplay,  221  West 
57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the  right 
to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations.  Come  on  in 
and  speak  your  mind! 


TJI 

"1  from  Cal  "iork,  who  has  been  giv- 
en a  black  eye  this  month  for  the 
"ungentlemanly"  stand  he  took  toward 
the  Brooklyn  Bonfire.  Several  of  the 
letters  shake  hands  with  him,  but  the 
majority — and  that  means  multitudes — 
insist  they  are  NOT  fed-up  with  Clara 
and  when  "Kick  In"  comes  to  town 
thev'U   be    lined    up    at.  the    box-office. 

The  Divine  Garbo  charmed  again  in 
"Inspiration"  but  the  picture  was  badly 
panned.  The  fans  make  impassioned 
pleas  for  happier  endings  to  her  stories 
and  stronger  heroes.  Montgomery,  they 
say,  is  not  the  tvpe  at  all  to  play  opposite 
their  Queen.  "Why  not  John  Gilbert  or 
Paul  Lukas?"  thev  ask. 

The  Dietrich  devotees  increased  in 
numbers  after  seeing  her  in  "Dishon- 
ored," but  here,  again,  the  picture  did 
not  always  please. 

Chaplin's  "City  Lights"  was  well  worth 
waiting  for,  say  all.  And  the  word  "gen- 
ius" appears  with  surprising  frequency 
in  all  the  letters  about  it.  However,  the 
popularity  of  the  talkies  is  not  imperiled. 

Mary  and  Doug  have  the  fans  a  bit  be- 
wildered. They  can't  quite  make  up 
their  minds  if  they  approve  of  their  de- 
parture from  the  old  established  path. 
"Reaching  for  the  Moon"  thev  do  not 
feel  was  a  fine  enough  vehicle  for  Doug. 
Mary,  in  "Kiki,"  they  admire  tremen- 
dously, buttheyshedatearthat  the 
"sweet"  Mary  is  no  more.  They  could 
do  with  another  "Coquette." 

"East  Lynne"  has  captured  the  popu- 
lar fancy  as  no  picture  has  in  a  long 
while,  and  the  fans  rave  over  Ann  Hard- 
ing's performance.  A  new  star,  Elissa 
Landi,  comes  in  for  lots  of  praise  for  her 
work  in  "Bodv  and  Soul."  "Millie"  with 
Helen  Twelvetrees  was  a  big  success. 
The  fans  like  her.  The  Constance  Ben- 
nett admirers  were  strong  for  "The  Eas- 
iest Way."  Everyone  is  still  raving  over 
"Cimarron."  Thev've  seen  it  two  and 
three  times.  Ruth  Chatterton's  "Un- 
faithful" disappointed,  hut  the  fans 
don't  blame  Ruth.  She's  given  them  too 
manv  good  ones.     Better  luck  next  time! 

The  fans  are  all  set  for  a  good  musical 
comedv.  Thev  still  deplore  gang  pic- 
tures. They  complain  about  the  short 
subjects — and  away  with  advertising 
campaigns! 


The  poise  of  Lilyan  Tashman — 
The  personality  of  Greta  Garbo — 
The  pep  of  Clara  Bow — 
The  voice  of  Ruth  Chattenon — 
The  sweetness  of  Norma  Shearer — 
The  grace  of  Loretta  Young — 
Forever  'n'  ever.  Amen! 

Norma  M.  Hale. 

Jackson,  Miss. 

Random  Opinions 

THE  marriage  of  Charles  Farrell  to  Vir- 
ginia Valli  means  that  he  and  Janet 
have  buried  themselves  professionally  with 
the  movie  fans.  From  now  on  they'll  be 
"dead  issues." 

M.  Clark. 
Brooklyn.  N.  Y. 

Fox  have  a  real  find  in  Elissa  Landi.  She 
gi\t  a  wonderful  performance  in  "Body  and 
Soul." 

Mrs.  D., 
Toledo.  Ohio 

We  want  to  see  Paul  Lukas  play  with 
Greta  Garbo  and  not  a  baby  like  Robert 
Montgomery. 

Viva  Locker. 
Paducah,  Ky. 

If  Dorothy  Jordan  keeps  up  the  good 
work,  all  the  other  actresses  are  going  to 
fade  into  the  background. 

Doris  Ballard, 
Gorham,  N.  H. 

Garbo  is  walking  Drama  itself;  and  I 
congratulate  the  company  who  had  the  fore- 
sight to  buy  Grand  Hotel"  for  her.  Only 
Greta  could  "put  over"  the  role  of  the 
dancer  in  this  wonderful  play. 

L.  E.  Ellis, 
Parchman,  Miss. 

Marlene  Dietrich  has  everything  that 
Garbo  has  and  something  else  besides — 
Humor! 

Coral  Winter, 
Vancouver,  B.  G 

Gary  Cooper  is  the  most  romantic  male 
on  the  American  screen  today.  He  is  a 
second  Wally  Reid. 

Florence. 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 
[please  turn  to  page  8] 


Photopi  \\   M  vc  iznn    i  oa  M.w  .  1     i 


BEBE  II  %  1 1 1 1 S 


'Vttaphonr"  is  thr  rrgistrml  trmlemar, 
of  The  litaphone  Corporation. 


BEN       L    V    O    X 
LEVIS    STONE 

JOAN    BLOND  ELL 
NATALIE    MOORIIKAI) 

Screen    adaptation    and    dialogue 

by  C  hark-s  Kcnyon 
Directed  by  ROY  DEL   RUTH 


C/ic   itll-ldlc   autobiography 

o/DORA  macvs  /.;/,'■/ 

Beautiful,  alluring  —  surrounded  by  men.  yet  always  lonely: 
showered  by  luxuries,  yet  unliappy  —  love  and  marria<je  offered 
lier.  lint  always  tne  dark  shadow  of  her  past  to  come  l>etween 
her  and  happiness!  Dora  Macy.  tlie  "jirl  whose  missteps  forever 
eehoed  to  haunt  her!  ^  ou  have  read  her  famous  story  which 
the  authoress  dared  not  sign.  Now  see  it  brought  to  life 
with  the  'jlamorous  Behe  Daniels,  playing  the  part  of  a  modern 
girl    whom     men     rememherea  —  hut    women    can    never    fonjet. 


A  WARNER  BROS.  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


The  Audience   Speaks   Its   Mind 


Robert  Montgomery  has  all  the  quaint 
charm  of  Walls'  keid— plus  a  beautiful  voice 
and  the  ability  to  seem  natural  in  any  role  be 
plays.  I  predict  he  will  be  the  screen's  most 
popular  male  star. 

Veri.a  Jenkins, 
Tacoma,  Wash. 

In  "Stolen  Heaven"  Nancy  Carroll  acted 
and  screamed  all  over  the  place.  Restraint  is 
what  she  needs  to  learn. 

Ray  Har, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

I  have  never  been  an  admirer  of  Marion 
Davies  until  I  saw  her  in  "The  Bachelor 
Father,"  but  in  this  enjoyable  picture,  Marion's 
charm  completely  won  me. 

Clydeon  Mori:. 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Paul  Lukas  is  the  dashing,  vivid  type  that 
we  American  girls  love.    Let's  see  a  lot  of  him. 
Muriel  Boussum, 
Cape  Girardeau,  Mo. 

Billie  Dove,  though  exceedingly  beautiful, 
can't  act  worth  a  cent.     She  just  looks  pretty 
while  her  supporting  cast  does  all  the  acting. 
Selma  Wells, 
Council  Bluffs,  Iowa 

Joan  Crawford  has  all  the  dignity,  brains, 
sophistication,  poise  and  charm  which  go  to 
make  up  our  ideal  for  the  modern  woman. 
Lydia  Bennett, 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 

"Cimarron"   is  to   the   talkies  what   "The 
Birth  of  a  Nation"  was  to  the  silent  screen. 
F.  C.  Powell, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

We  Gilbert  fans  are  waiting  for  the  "John 
Gilbert  Special"  to  pull  in.  We  cannot  forget 
Jack's  charming  manners  and  splendid  acting 
of  former  days. 

Alice  Henle, 
Indianapolis,  Ind. 

To  see  Greta  mothering  poor  little  Robert 
Montgomery  in  "Inspiration"  was  indeed  a 
pathetic  sight. 

Pail  S.  Dial, 
Covington,  Va. 

Why  don't  we  see  more  of  Lily  Damita? 
I  think  she's  swell ! 

John  Fixberg, 
Akron,  Ohio 

I  hope  this  Garbo-Dietrich  war  is  soon 
quieted  down.  Neither  of  them  can  compare  to 
Clara  How  and  Joan  Crawford. 

Joan  Joyce, 
Buffalo,  N.  V. 

All  the  praise  that  has  gone  to  Constance 
Bennett  should  really  be  given  to  her  sister, 
Joan.    She  outshines  Constance  every  time. 
Vivian  D.  Simmers, 
Swink,  Colo. 

If  you  were  to  take  a  vote  on  the  stars  that 
give  you   most   laughs  for  your  money,  you 
would  find  out  that  Joe  E.  Brown  and  Winnie 
Lightner  would  be  far  ahead  of  everyone. 
R.  W.  M  u.i  i  . 
Colorado  Springs,  Colo. 

Ann  Harding  has  everything  anyone  could 
possibly  desire  in  an  actress,  but  why  doesn't 
she  change  her  coiffure?  It  attracts  attention 
but  does  not  charm. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Evans, 
Bloomsburg,  Penna. 

8 


[  continued  from  pace  6  ] 

Give  us  something  new  and  interesting  in 
the  talkies — and  not  a  lot  of  made-over  silent 
pictures. 

E.  P.  Arnot, 
Fxeter,  Neb. 

Clara   Bow 

Thank  goodness  there's  somebody  who'll 
stand  up  and  speak  his  mind  regarding  Clara 
How.  We  are  fed  up  with  her;  I  have  been  for 
the  past  two  years.  After  each  escapade  the 
magazines  usually  dash  to  her  rescue  with 
some  sob  story.  She's  had  enough  of  this 
sympathy  stuff. 

Miss  Bille  R.  Davis 

That  article  in  the  March  Photoplay 
about  Clara  Bow  seems  to  me  to  be  going  just 
a  bit  too  far.  I  only  know  about  a  hundred 
thousand  people  who  are  NOT  fed  up  with 
Clara.  I  attended  her  trial  and  anyone 
could  see  that  she's  just  a  big-hearted  kid. 
R.  E.  La  Mon 

"Dishonored" 

I  have  a  feeling  that  Marlene  Dietrich  is 
being  directed  to  death.  "Dishonored"  was 
so  far-fetched  and  elaborate  a  story,  it  was  hard 
to  tell  if  Miss  Dietrich  could  act  or  not.    But 


1  ou  JVnow 
the  Otars! 


Capitalize  your  knowledge  of  the 
picture  favorites.  In  the  past  seven 
years  PHOTOPLAY  has  distributed 
$35,000  in  cash  among  370  of  its 
readers. 

That  slice  of  wealth  has  paid  for 
college  educations, helped  buy  homes, 
enabled    many    to    see    the    world. 

Now  Photoplay  prepares  to  cut 

another  $5,000  melon. 

Read  the  details  in  this  issue. 
Turn  to  page  36. 


then,  she's  so  good  to  hear  and  see,-  what's  the 
difference?  If  her  director  would  pay  more 
attention  to  story  and  less  to  directing,  we 
might  get  a  chance  to  find  out. 

S.  S., 
New  York  City. 

Chaplin 

I  have  just  seen  a  real  star  make  a  superb 
picture  out  of  mediocre  material — Charlie 
Chaplin  in  "City  Lights."  The  audience 
howled  with  laughter  at  his  antics  and  wept 
softly  as  the  picture  drew  to  a  close,  showing 
the  pathos  of  the  little  figure  Chaplin  has  so 
realistically  created. 

Dorothy  Raifer, 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 

Charlie  Chaplin's  "City  Lights"  bears  the 
imprint  of  the  highest  technical  and  artistic 
skill,  but  the  stamp  of  genius  is  most  certainly 
lacking.    We  felt  entitled  to  something  greater 


considering  the  time  and  effort  Chaplin  spent 
on  this  picture. 

S.  C, 
Santa  Monica,  Calif. 

Garbo 

"Inspiration"  as  a  picture,  was  a  flop.    But 

Garbo!     Just  another  triumph  for  this  great 

lady.     For  who  but  the  glorious  Garbo  could 

carry  such  a  bad  production  and  put  it  over? 

Leona  Andbews, 

LaFayette,  Ind. 

Mary  Pickford 

Oh,  Mary,  Mary!  You've  let  us  down 
badly.  "Kiki"  is  not  your  type  of  part.  You 
did  your  best  to  be  convincing,  but  we  just 
can't  accept  you  in  this  one.  Bring  us  back 
some  of  the  sweetness  that  we've  come  to 
expect  from  you.  Make  another  "Coquette." 
Olga  Lassen, 
St.  Paul,  Minn. 

Welcome  a  new  Mary  Pickford!  I  didn't 
think  you  could  do  it,  Mary.  You  were  just 
too  cute  for  words  in  "Kiki."  And  that 
French  accent!    More,  please. 

Betty  James, 
Long  Branch,  N.  J. 


Garbo-Dietrich 


Garbo  carries  us  away  from  our  modern, 
humdrum  existence  to  a  dream  world.  She 
expresses  all  the  hopes,  dreams  and  poetic 
longings  we  are  unable  to  express  ourselves. 

"There  is  no  one  beside  thee, 

And  no  one  above  thee, 

Thou  standest  alone 

As  the  nightingale  sings." 

Thelma  Holland, 
Ann  Arbor.  Mich. 

Dietrich  is  superior  to  Garbo  in  everything. 

She   has   twice   the   looks,    twice   the   acting 

ability  and  an  utterly  charming  talking  and 

singing  voice  that  Garbo  can  never  aspire  to. 

Betty  Ferguson, 

Brooklyn.  N.  Y. 

•Millie" 

"Millie"  was  certainly  a  wonderful  picture. 
Helen  Twelvetrees  deserves  much  credit  for 
the  splendid  work  she  gave  us. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Burrough, 

Clyde,  Ohio 

I  have  just  seen  "Millie"  and  of  all  the  wash- 
outs, Helen  Twelvetrees  included,  this  is  the 
worst. 

About  fifteen  years  elapse  during  the 
picture  and  everyone  is  dressed  in  the  height  of 
fashion  of  today  in  the  beginning,  as  they  are 
at  the  end  of  the  picture.  Why  not  be  logical 
in  the  movies? 

Mrs.  A.  Streett, 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Joan  or  Anita? 

After  seeing  the  glorious  youthful  roundness 
of  Anita  Page's  figure  in  "Reducing"  I  de- 
cided then  and  there  to  be  done  with  this 
dieting.  May  the  movies  give  us  more  of  these 
glowing  specimens  of  girlhood ! 

Ruth  Colvin, 
West  Hollywood,  Calif. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  114  ] 


Photopi  w  M  \c  \/im    i  01  May,  i     1 


?<? 


B.  O."  cheated  her  out 


(Body  Odor) 


of  popularity.  .  . 


until  she   fuutllv  learned   that 
perspiration  need  never  offend 

Pi:  I  I  IV  gay,  marvelous  dancer  —  she 
should  have  been  the  hit  of  any  party. 
Bid  she  wasn't  I  Why?  Everyone  else  knew. 
Only  she  was  unsuspecting. 

Luckily  though,  licr  new  sister-in-law  was 
wry  frank.  There's  n<>  "B.O." — body  odor — 
to  mar  this  girl's  attractiveness  now.  She 
knows  the  easy  way  to  keep  perspiration 

cxlorl.  SS 

•        •        • 

What  a  giveaway  "B.O."  is!  Treacherous! 
Always  betraying,  hut  never  warning  the 
offender. 

Don't   be  deceived.    We  can't   tell   when 


we're  guilty  because  our  sense  of  smell  be- 
comes deadened  to  an  ever-present  odor. 
But  even  when  we  don't  seem  to  perspire, 
pores  give  off  as  much  as  a  quart  of  odor- 
causing  waste  daily. 

Play  safe — bathe  with  Lifebuoy.  Its  mild, 
antiseptic  lather  purifies  pores  deeply — pre- 
vents embarrassing  odor.  Its  pleasant,  extra- 
clean  scent — that  vanishes  as  you  rins< — 
tells  you  you're  cleaner,  safer,  with  Lifebuoy. 

Complexions  groiv  lovelier 

Lifebuoy's  bland,  deep-cleansing  lather 

gently  frees  clogged   pores  of  impuritii 

freshens  dull  skins  till  they  glow  with  clear, 
healthy  radiance.  Adopt  Lifebuoy  today. 

I.KVF.R  BROTHERS  CO.,  Cambridge,  Matt. 


Lifebuoy 

SHAVING 
CREAM 

Tender    spots    from    shav- 
ing vani-h  like  magic  when 
vou  u-e  this  new   double* 
dense,  soothing  lather. 
At  your  druggist's 


Lifebuoy 

HEALTH       SOAP  V 

stops  body  odor 


AFRICA  SPEAKS — Columbia. — Interesting  trav- 
elogue with  animal  thrills,  considerably  dramatized. 

Bui  it  has  a  kick.     (Dec.) 

ALMOST  A  HONEYMOON  — British  Inter- 
national.— A  light  bedroom  farce.  The  gaits  would 
have  been  funny  ten  years  ago.  Very  mild.    (March.) 

ALOHA— Rogell  Tiffanv  Production.— The  old 
"Bird  of  Paradise"  plot  made  over  for  the  talkies. 
Some  quite-good  comedy  and  a  lot  of  surefire  sob 
stuff.  Ben  Lyon  and  Raquel  Torres  work  hard. 
(March.) 

ALONG  CAME  YOUTH— Paramount.— Just  a 
light  Charles  (Ex-Buddy  I  Rogers  picture,  with  laughs 
from  Stuart  Erwin.  Nobody  sings,  anyway.  And 
that's  sometliing.      (Dec.) 

ANYBODY'S  G I  RL— Columbia.— A  realistic 
story  of  a  taxi-dancer's  disillusionment.  Barbara 
Stanwyck  and  Ricardo  Cortez  are  great.    (Feb.) 

ARE  YOU  THERE?  —  Pox.  —  Beatrice  Lillie, 
comedy  queen  of  London,  tries  hard  to  be  funny  as 
a  lady  detective,  but  she  never  quite  clicks.  Bee 
isn't  there,  nor  is  her  picture.     (Nov.) 

ATLANTIC — British  International. — English  dia- 
logue may  bore  you,  but  the  melodrama  must  have 
been  based  on  the  Titanic:  catastrophe  and  it  affords 
some  creditable  sea  thrills.     (Dec.) 

BACHELOR  FATHER,  THE— M-G-M  —  Marion 
Davies  at  her  best  in  a  sprightly,  sophisticated  com- 
edy.   Good  for  one  million  laughs.    (Feb.) 

•  BAT  WHISPERS,  THE— United  Artists- 
Daddy  of  all  scare  movies,  and  it's  a  lulu. 
The  cameramen  and  Chester  Morris  share  first 
honors.      (Jan.) 

•  BEAU  IDEAL— Radio  Pictures.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Devil's  Battalion") — A 
spectacular  sequel  to  "  Beau  Geste,"  made  with  many 
of  the  same  actors.  A  great  picture  in  which  Ralph 
Forbes,  Loretta  Young  and  Don  Alvarado  do  great 
work.     (Feb.) 

BEHIND  OFFICE  DOORS— Radio  Pictures- 
Mary  Astor  fine  as  the  clever  secretary  who  helps  her 
boss  (Robert  Ames)  to  rise  to  importance  in  the  in- 
dustrial world.     Interesting  story.     (April) 

BIG  MONEY— Pathe— Eddie  Quillan's  luck  at 
cards  drags  him  among  the  big-time  gamblers.  But 
it's  all  a  lot  of  fun  and  Eddie's  fresh  wisecracks  will 
convulse  you.     (Jan.) 

•  BIG  TRAIL,  THE— Fox— Now.  here's  an 
epic!  Buffalo  hunt,  Indians,  thrills,  pictorial 
beauty.  Raoul  Walsh's  supreme  directorial  achieve- 
in  ent.  Greater  than  "The  Covered  Wagon."  John 
Wayne,  newcomer,  moves  right  into  the  star  class. 
{Not.) 

•  BILLY  THE  KID— M-G-M.— Johnny  Mack 
Brown  gives  the  show  of  his  life  as  the  boy  out- 
law. Not  history.  But  who  wants  history/  The 
movie's  a  pip.     (Dec.) 

•  BLUE  ANGEL,  THE— UFA-Paramount.— 
Emil  Jannings'  first  talkie  in  English.  And  it's 
a  knockout.  So  is  Marlene  Dietrich  as  the  woman 
who  drives  a  man  mad.    (Feb.) 

BODY  AND  SOUL— Fox— See  this  one.  Great 
entertainment.  Charlie  Farrell  and  Elissa  Landi 
(from  the  stage).  You'll  like  her.  Myrna  Loy  is  the 
mean  one.     (April) 

BOUDOIR   DIPLOMAT,   THE— Universal.— 
■tinted  comedy,  cleverly  acted  by  Betty  Comp- 
SOn  ami  Ian  Keith.  A  few  dull  momenta  but  many  de- 
lightful ones,  subtly  naughty.     (Dec.) 

BROTHERS— Columbia.— Bert  Lytell  acts  a 
du.il  role  in  a  mildly  effective  melodramatic  thriller. 
(Jan.) 

BY    ROCKET    TO    THE    MOON— UFA.— The 

Germans  present  an  interesting  lesson  in  astronomy, 
if  you  like  astronomy.     (April) 

10 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 

-^Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


CAPTAIN   APPLEJACK— Warn,  r<— All   in   fun 

— and  what  fun!  A  blasf  young  man  finds  adventure 
among  the  pirates.  Heavy  loving  between  John 
Halliday  and  Kay  Strozzi,  with  Mary  Brian  as  the 
nice  girl.      (Nov.) 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners— A  romantic 
bandit  rights  some  wrongs.  You  know  the  plot, 
but  it's  still  a  lot  of  fun.  Victor  Varconi  is  the  dash- 
ing Captain  and  Fay  Wray  airs  her  cute  Spanish 
accent.     ( Nov.) 

CAT  CREEPS,  THE  — Universal.— Your  old 
friend.  "The  Cat  and  the  Canary,"  now  a  talkie. 
Shivers  and  thrills!  A  wow  scare-movie.  Neil  Hamil- 
ton leads  a  great  cast.     (Dec.) 

CAUGHT  CHEATING— Tiffany  Productions.— 
George  Sidney  and  Charlie  Murray  get  tangled  with 
a  Chicago  gangster's  wife  and  are  taken  for  a  ride. 
Fast-moving  and  pretty  good  fun.      (March.) 


DID  YOU  KNOW 

That  dozens  of  the  stars,  who 
appear  to  us  so  glamorous 
and  carefree, 

ARE  AFRAID? 

Next  month  Ruth  Biery, 
Photoplay  staff  vriter,  will 
tell  you  about  the  tenors  that 
beset  the  players.  The  story  is 
called  "Hollywood's  Age  of 
Fear,"  and  it's  one  of  the  most 
revealing  stories  in  many 
months.  Just  one  of  the  treats 
you'll  find 

in  the  June  issue  of 

PHOTOPLAY 


CHARLEY'S  AUNT— Columbia.— The  old  farce 
funny.    Charles  Ruggles  makes  it  worth  seeing 
again.      (Jan.) 

CHARLIE  CHAN  CARRIES  ON— Fox.— Grand 

mystery  with  lots  of  thrills  and  romance.  Warner 
Oland  marvelous  as  Chan.  John  Garrick  and  Mar- 
guerite Churchill  are  the  love  interest.     (April) 

•  CHECK  AND  DOUBLE  CHECK— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Amos  n'  Andy  materialize  on  the 
screen,  with  Kingfish  and  the  Fresh  Air  Taxi!  Dis 
am  entertainment!     (Dec.) 

CHILDREN  OF  DREAMS— Warners— A  musi- 
cal which  vou  can  miss  and  think  nothing  of  it. 
(April) 

CHISELERS  OF  HOLLYWOOD— Willis  Kent 
Productions. — First-rate  entertainment.  Hokum, 
humor  and  heart.  Phyllis  Barrington,  a  newcomer, 
does  great  work.    (Feb.) 


•  CIMARRON— Radio  Pictures.— The  thrilling 
story  of  the  pioneer  West,  superbly  transferred 
to  the  screen.  Richard  Dix  re-establishes  himself  as 
a  star,  and  heads  a  remarkable  cast.    (Feb.) 

•  CITY  LIGHTS — Chaplin-United  Artists  — 
The  one  and  only  Chaplin  makes  another 
masterpiece.  Magnificent  comedy  and  heartbreak- 
ing pathos  intermingled.  You  can  see  it  again  and 
again.     (March.) 

COHENS  AND  KELLYS  IN  AFRICA,  THE— 

Universal. — Charlie  Murray  and  George  Sidney.  A 
scream  from  start  to  finish.      (Jan.) 

COLLEGE  LOVERS— First  National.— The  old 
football  stuff,  even  if  the  hero  doesn't  make  a  last 
minute  touchdown.  Jack  Whiting  and  Marian  Nixon 
are  the  lovers.     (Nov.) 

COMMAND  PERFORMANCE,  THE— Cruze- 
Tiffany  Productions. — A  bright  and  spicy  comedy 
about  one  of  those  engaging  mvthical  kingdoms. 
Neil  Hamilton  is  simply  grand.    (Feb.) 

CONCENTRATIV  KID,  THE— Universal.— 
Hoot  Gibson  falls  in  love  with  a  radio  voice.  A 
weak-sister  for  Hoot.     (Jan.) 

•  CONNECTICUT  YANKEE,  A— Fox.— It's 
better  than  the  silent  version  and  you'll  love 
Will  Rogers.  William  Farnum  and  Myrna  Loy  are 
excellent.  Maureen  O'Sullivan  and  Frank  Albertson 
supply  the  love  interest.     (April) 

CONQUERING  HORDE,  THE— Paramount.— 
Dick  Arlen  makes  this  Western  fine  entertainment. 
Fay  Wray  adorable  as  the  girl.     (April) 

COSTELLO  CASE,— Sono  Art— James  Cruze.— 
The  sweethearts  are  suspected  of  murder  again. 
Tom  Moore  is  the  wise  copper.  Pretty  obvious 
melodrama.      (Jan.) 

CRACKED  NUTS— Radio  Pictures.— Wheeler 
and  Woolsey  in  a  rush  of  dialogue  to  the  screen,  and 
not  very  good  dialogue.    Amusing  in  spots.     (April) 

•CRIMINAL  CODE,  THE— Columbia.— Don't 
miss  this  powerful  prison  drama.  You'll  never 
forget  it.  Walter  Huston  and  Phillips  Holmes  head  a 
brilliant  cast.     (Feb.) 

DAMAGED  LOVE— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— 
Pretty  mild.  June  Collyer's  charm  and  dimples 
save  it  from  being  an  entire  waste  of  time.     (March.) 

DANCE  FOOLS.  DANCE—  M-G-M.—  Fast  and 
thrilling  entertainment.  Joan  Crawford  again  proves 
herself  a  great  dramatic  actress.  Billy  Bakewell  fine 
as  the  weak  young  brother  who  falls  in  with  gang- 
sters.     (March.) 

DANCERS,  THE— Fox.— A  rambling,  younger 
generation  drama  which  isn't  at  its  best  on  the  screen. 
The  players,  including  Lois  Moran  and  Phillips 
Holmes,  do  their  best.    (Feb.) 

DAWN  TRAIL,  THE — Columbia.— A  good  Buck 
Jones  Western  with  a  rip-roarin'  fight  between  the 
sheep  and  cattle  men.    (Feb.) 

DERELICT — Paramount. — Big  Boy  Bancroft  and 
William  (stage)  Boyd  fight  a  grand  fight.  And  there 
are  lots  of  storms  at  sea.  Why  sorry  about  the  story? 
(Dec.) 

•  DEVIL  TO  PAY,  THE— United  Artists-Sam- 
uel Goldwyn. — Ronnie  Colman  breezes  through 
a  tasty,  spicy  little  comedy.  Great  cast,  sparkling 
dialogue  and  finished  production.    (Feb.) 

DICH   HAB  ICH  GELIEBT  (Because  I  Loved 

You  — AAFA-Tobis. — Though  it's  in  German,  you 
needn't  understand  the  language  to  enjoy  this  sweet 
love  story.     (Jan.) 

DIVORCE    AMONG    FRIENDS.— Warners. 

— Heigh  lio.  the  husband  and  wife  quarrel  and  make 
upl    Lew  Cody  is  the  only  bright  spot.     (Dec.) 

DOCTORS'  WIVES— Fox— Joan  Bennett.  War- 
ner Baxter  and  Victor  Varconi  in  a  story  of  jealousy. 
Not  very  convincing.     (April) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  12  ] 


Photoplay  Mahazink  for  May,  1931 


1 1 


1 


BEN     I.  ^  o  \ 


\ 


THE 


HOT 


\lg^^3 


BEN     LYON 
ONA  MUNSON 

W  VLTER    PIDGEON 

1">M  IHI.VN.  INEZ  COURTNEY 

Original  Story  by  Herbert  Fields 

HmIc  nmi  Egrria  by 
Rirhard  Rodger*  and  Loreat  Hart 

DirerteA  hv  CLARENCE  BADGER 

"I'itaphone"  i«  the  registered  trnde- 
mark    of     The     Vitaphone      Corp. 


heiress; 

What  would  you  do  with  a  lover 
who  was  an  expert  at  slinging  rivets  hut 
who  bungled  his  forks  at  the  Ritz?    t    * 

/*  Su|»|»<»<-  >ou  were  a  Park  Vvenue  debutante  .  .  . 
and  some  husky  brute  of  an  ironworker  >*;«•>  mean  enough  to  Bpoil  vour 
beauty  Bleep  l>v  poundinE  rivets  right  outside  y>ur  bedroom  window 
.  .  .  and  then  von  saw  In-  was  big  anil  Strong  and  handsome  .  .  .  and 
Oh!  lookout — he's  falling —  falling  in  love  w\\\\  vou! 
See  what  charming  Ona  Mnuson  does  when  Park  and  Third  .Venues 
It's  her  newest,  biggest    part    and    you're    going    to    like    this 


meet: 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  8c  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  10 


DON'T  BET   ON    WOMEN— Foot.— Husbands, 
and  lovers  mix-up.   Good  adult  entertainmi  nt, 
wiili  smart  dialogue.    Roland  Young,  Edmund  Lowe, 
Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Una  Merkel  make  tl. 

of  their  parts,     (.\prtl) 

DOORWAY  TO  HELL,  THE— Warners.— Low 
Ayres  a<  a  gangster  with  a   Napoleonic  complex. 

Lew  is  great.     The  picture's  pretty  good.     (Nov.) 

DRACULA — Universal. — A  mystery  story  full  of 
creeps  and  thrills.  Helen  Chandler  grand  as  the 
terrified  heroine.     (March.) 

DRUMS  OF  JEOPARDY,  THE— Tiffany  Prod. 
— Mystery  melodrama  with  enough  murders  to  satisfy 
the  bloodthirsty.  Good  east  headed  by  Warner  Oland 
and  June  Collyer.     (April) 

DU  BARRY— WOMAN  OF  PASSION— Unit  d 

Arti>t>. — Passion?  Well,  hardly.  Norma  Talmadge 
gives  a  bint  of  her  old  fire,  but  loses  in  the  fight 
against  long,  artificial  speeches.  Conrad  Nagel  and 
William  Farnum  are  excellent.     (Nov.) 

EASIEST  WAY,  THE— M-G-M.— A  modern 
sophisticated  story,  beautifully  directed.  Constance 
Bennett.  Adolphe  Menjou,  Anita  Page  and  Bob 
Montgomery  do  some  grand  acting — and  what 
costumes!     [March.) 

EAST  IS  WEST— Universal.— Lupe  Velez  plays 
Ming  Toy.  Edward  G.  Robinson  is  Chinatown  Charlie. 
They  should  have  made  the  old  play  convincing,  but 
something  went  wrong.      (Dec.) 

•  EAST  LYNNE— Fox.— Don't  miss  this  one. 
Beautiful,  artistic  production  of  the  heart- 
breaking old  melodrama.  Ann  Harding  captivat- 
ingly  beautiful.  Fine  support  by  Conrad  Nagel  and 
Clive  Brook.     (April) 

ESCAPE— Associated  Radio  Pictures.— An  Eng- 
lish talkie  about  an  escaped  prisoner.  Far  too 
talkie.      (Jan.) 

EX-FLAME— Liberty  Productions.— Your  old 
friend  "East  Lynne"  dressed  up  in  modern  clothes 
and  played  by  Norman  Kerry  and  Marian  Nixon. 
Old-fashioned  and  unconvincing.      (Jan.) 

EXTRAVAGANCE— Tiffany  Productions.— Fash- 
ions and  passions  blended  in  a  display  that  will  make 
the  audience  gasp.     Don't  take  Junior.     (Dec.) 

FAIR  WARNING— Fox.— George  O'Brien  as  the 
honest  Western  lad  who  slays  the  wicked  villain  and 
wins  the  girl.     (Jan.) 

FAST  AND  LOOSE— Paramount.— A  pleasant 
little  comedy  about  the  rich  girl  who  falls  in  love  with 
the  working  man.  Miriam  Hopkins  debuts  success- 
fully as  the  girl.    (Feb.) 

•  FATHER'S  SON— First  National.— A  simple 
story,  fine  and  human.  Lewis  Stone,  Irene 
Rich.  Leon  Janney.  Here  are  actors — and  a  notable 
film.     (Dec.) 

•     FEET    FIRST— Paramount.— Harold    Lloyd 
rings  the  bell  again — with  both  feet.      You'll 
shriek  and  squeal.     (Dec.) 

FINN  AND  HATTIE— Paramount.— One  long 
howl.  Mr.  and  Mr*.  Haddock's  trip  abroad  ruined  by 
a  fiendish  nephew  and  a  daughter,  played  well  by 
Jackie  Searl  and  Mitzi  Green.     (April) 


FIFTY   MILLION   FRENCHMEN— Warners.— 

American  tourists  in  Paris.  Moves  go  fast  it  leaves 
you  weak.  One  good  gag  after  another.  Don't 
miss  it.      (March.) 

FIGHTING  CARAVANS  — Paramount.— Your 
old  friend.  "The  Covered  Wagon."  gone  talkie  just  a 
bit  late.  The  scenes  are  beautiful  and  Ernest  Tor- 
rence  and  Tuily  Marshall  are  on  hand  in  their  original 
roles.     {Feb.) 

FIGHTING  THRU  —  Tiffany  Productions.  — 
Worth  the  price  of  admission.  Ken  Maynard  and 
his  horse  "Tarzan"  do  some  fine  work  and  the 
beautiful  Jeanette  Loff  helps  considerably.     (March.) 

FLAME  OF  LOVE,  THE  — British  International. 
— Anna  May  Wong  as  a  Chinese  vamp  in  Russia. 
But  it  really  matters  very  little.      (Jan.) 

FOLLOW  THE   LEADER— Paramount.— Ed 

Wynn's  a  howl  in  this  dandy  transcription  of  his  stage 
hit,  "Manhattan  Mary."  A  musical  comedy,  but 
it's  a  honey.     (Dec.) 

FOR  THE  LOVE  O'  LIL— Columbia.— Naughty 
in  a  very  nice  way,  this  story  of  married  life  manages 
to  be  reasonably  entertaining.  Jack  Mulhall,  Sally 
Starr.  Elliott  Nugent  and  Margaret  Livingston  play 
it.      (Feb.) 

FOUND— Ralph  P.  King  Productions.— Australia 
sponsored  this  travel  film.  It's  excellent,  except  for  a 
goofy  ending.     (Dec.) 

FREE  LOVE— Universal.— Conrad  Nagel  and 
Genevieve  Tohin  demonstrate  what  to  do  when  a 
woman  takes  up  psycho-analysis.  An  amusing  com- 
edy.    (Feb.) 

•  GANG  BUSTER,  THE  —  Paramount.  — 
Comedy-melodrama  with  Jack  Oakie  at  his 
best.  William  (stage)  Boyd  menaces  as  the  gang 
leader  and  Jean  Arthur  is  the  pretty  herojne.  (March.) 

•  GENTLEMAN'S  FATE  —  M-G-M.  —  This 
tense  drama  brings  us  Jack  Gilbert  with  all 
his  old  appeal.  The  beautiful  Leila  Hyams  and  Anita 
Page  support  him  and  Louis  Wolheim  gives  a 
flawless   performance.     (March.) 

GIRL  FROM  THE  REEPERBAHN,  THE 
(DAS    MAEDEL    VON    DER    REEPERBAHN)— 

Sonor  Prod. — The  Germans  crash  through  with  a 
good  one.  Grim  melodrama  with  plenty  of  action 
and  some  good  songs.     (April) 

GIRLS  DEMAND  EXCITEMENT— Fox.— Mar- 
guerite Churchill,  John  Wayne,  Virginia  Cherrill  and 
William  Janney  are  a  fine  cast  wasted  in  a  story  that 
never  rings  true.     (April) 

GOING  WILD  —  First  National.  —  Remember 
Doug  MacLean  in  "Going  Up"?  This  is  a  revival, 
with  Joe  E.  Brown  as  the  funny  fellow  who  is  mis- 
taken for  an  aviator.  Some  laughs  and  some  dull 
spots.     (Nov.) 

GORILLA,  THE— First  National.— A  goodish 
enough  thriller — but  it's  been  dolefully  slowed  down 
for  the  screen.  Frisco,  Broadway  funnyman,  is  less 
funny  than  usual.     (Nov.) 

•  GREAT  MEADOW,  THE— M-G-M— A  stir- 
ring and  exciting  yarn  of  pioneering,  with 
Eleanor  Boardman  a  brilliant  member  of  the  distin- 
guished cast.    (Feb.) 


•  HALF  SHOT  AT  SUNRISE— Radio  Pictures. 
— Who  said  "depression"?  Go  A  VV  O  L  with 
Wheeler  and  Woolsey  in  Paris.  The  most  rollicking 
nonsense  ever  devised.     (Nov.) 

HATE  SHIP,  THE— British  International.— A 
fairly  gripping  old-school  melodrama — thrills  and 
mystery  on  board  a  yacht.    (Feb.) 

HEADIN"  NORTH— Tiffany  Productions— Bob 
Steele  with  his  horse,  cowboy  suit  and  a  coupla  guns. 
A  fizzling  hot  Western.      (Jan.) 

HEADS  UP— Paramount. — Charles  (Ex-Buddy) 
Rogers  in  a  pleasant  little  musical  comedy  about  a 
dashing  coast  guardsman.  Not  historic — except  that 
Buddy  smokes  his  first  cigarettel     (Dec.) 

HELL  BOUND— Cruze-Tiffany  Prod.— Good  gang 
story  if  you're  not  tired  of  them.  Leo  Carrillo  plays 
the  broken-Englished  speakeasy  operator  and  Lola 
Lane  is  completely  charming.     (April) 

•  HER  MAN— Pathe.— "He  was  her  man.  but 
he  done  her  wrong" — Frankie  and  her  erring 
Johnnie  further  immortalized  on  celluloid  in  the  in- 
teresting persons  of  Helen  Twelvetrees  and  Phillips 
Holmes.      (Nov.) 

HER  WEDDING  NIGHT— Paramount.— Clara, 
the  Bow,  en  negligee  in  Paris.  Bedrooms  and  boy 
friends.    Light,  but  quite  cute.     (Dec.) 

HOLE  IN  THE  WALL,  THE  (N'AR  ROSORN  \ 

SLA  UT) — Paramount. — Swedish  talkie  brings  us 
Sven  Gustafsson.  Garbo's  brother,  but  nothing  like 
his  famous  sister.  Light  and  chatty  love  storv. 
(Apnl, 

HOOK,  LINE  AND  SINKER— Radio  Pictures.— 
That's  how  you'll  go  for  this  latest  gem  of  Wheelcr- 
Woolsey  nonsense.  The  monkey  business  is  perpe- 
trated in  gangland.    (Feb.) 

HOT  HEIRESS,  THE— First  National.— A  mil- 
lionaire's daughter  on  the  make  for  a  steel  riveter, 
poor  but  virile.  Loads  of  fun.  Ben  Lyon's  the  gent, 
and  what  a  cutie  is  Ona  Munson!     (Dec) 

HOW  HE  LIED  TO  HER  HUSBAND— British 

International. — George  Bernard  Shaw  surrenders  to 
the  talkies.  Amusing,  if  you  like  the  Shaw  wit. 
(March.) 

•  ILLICIT — Warners. — Another  triumph  for 
Barbara  Stanwyck,  who  plays  a  modern 
maiden  who  wants  love  without  marriage.  A  dar- 
ing film,  strong  and  moving.     (Jan.) 

INSPIRATION  —  M-G-M—  Garbo  was  never 
lovelier  than  in  this  very  modern  story  of  the  indiscreet 
woman  and  the  price  she  pays.  Lewis  Stone.  Robert 
Montgomery  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  lend  Greta 
strong  support.     (Ftb.) 

IT  PAYS  TO  ADVERTISE— Paramount.— The 

old  stage  play  revamped  for  the  talkies  with  plenty 
of  speed  and  lots  of  laughs.  Skeets  Gallagher.  Nor- 
man Foster  and  Carole  Lombard  head  a  perfect  cast. 


JAZZ  CINDERELLA,  THE— Chesterfield.— Poor 
girl  captures  rich  boy.     Myrna  Loy  and  Jason  Ro- 
bards  do  as  well  as  they  can,  which  isn't  much.   (Dec.) 
[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  15  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  j?ic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list. 


Page 
Hachelor  Apartment — Radio  Pictures. .  57 

Had  Sister — Universal 126 

Beyond  Victorj — RKO-Pathe   126 

Big  Business  Girl — First  National. .    .    126 

Comrades  of  1918 — Forenfilms 127 

Dirigible — Columbia 56 

Dishonored — Paramount 55 

Finger  Points,  The — First  National.  .  .    56 

Front  Page,  The — United  Artists 54 

God's  Gift  to  Women — Warners 56 


Page 

Gun  Smoke — Paramount 126 

Honor  Among  Lovers — Paramount. ...   57 

It's  a  Wise  Child— M-G-M 55 

Fast  Parade,  The — Columbia 57 

Laugh  and  Get  Rich — Radio  Pictures..  126 

Lightning  Flyer,  The — Columbia 126 

Man  of  the  World — Paramount 57 

Millionaire,  The — Warners 54 

Mr.  Lemon  of  Orange — Fox 57 

Pagliacci — Audio  Cinema  Production. .  127 


Page 

Rider  of  the  Plains,  A — Syndicate 127 

Skippy — Paramount 54 

Stepping  Out— M-G-M 56 

Strangers  May  Kiss — M-G-M 55 

Swanee  River — Sono  Art- World  Wide  .127 

Tabu — Paramount 56 

Tailor  Made  Man.  A— M-G-M 57 

I'nfaithful — Paramount 56 

Wild  West  Whoopee— Cosmo 127 


Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 90  ) 


Sunshine   Mellows 


Heat  P 


ffi 


§ 


< 


LUCKIES 

are  always 

kind  to  your 

throat 


The  ad\  -ieeofyour  phy- 
sician u  Keep  out  o/ 
i/ootj,  in  the  open  aiT, 
hreathe  deeply;  take 
plenty  q)  txtrdlt  in 
the  mellow  junjhinc, 
anJ  hare  a  penojic 
check-up  on  the 
health  of  your  body 


Everyone  knows  that  sunshine 
mellows  — that's  why  the  "TOASTING"  process 
includes  the  use  of  the  Ultra  Violet  Rays.  LUCKY 
STRIKE—  made  of  the  finest  tobaccos  —  theCream 
of  the  Crop -THEN -"IT'S  TOASTED"  an  extra, 
secret  heating  process.  Harsh  irritants  present 
in  all  raw  tobaccos  are  expelled  by  "TOASTING." 
These  irritants  are  sold  to  others.  They  are  not 
present  in  your  LUCKY  STRIKE.  No  wonder 
LUCKIES  are  always  kind  to  your  throat. 


\ 


6* 


©  1MI.  The  A    T    Co..  Mfrt 


Its  toasted 


Your  Throot  Protection  — against  irritation  — against  cough 


Another  great  role-another  blazing 

triumph  for  the  winner  of  the  1930 

best  performance  award 


NORMA 


SHEA 


in 


STRANGERS 
MAY 
KISS 


This  is  the  statue 
awarded  to  Norma 
Shearer  bv  the 
Academy  of  Mo- 
tion Picture  Arts 
and  Sciences,  for 
her  performance  in 
"The  Divorcee," 
the  best  given  by 
any  actress  during 
1930. 


SHE  faced  life  fearlessly  —  accepted  love 
where  she  found  it— because  she  believed 
a  woman  could  "kiss  and  forget"  even  as  a 
man  does.  But  heartbreak  and  cruel  disillu- 
sionment lay  between  her  and  ultimate  hap- 
piness with  the  one  man  in  all  the  world 
whom  she  did  love. ...  If  you  enjoyed  Norma 
Shearer  in  "The  Divorcee" — don't  miss  her 
this  dramatic   picture   based    on    Ursula 


Robert  Montgomery  who  helped 
Norma  Shearer  make  her  great 
success  in  "The  Divorcee"  is 
again  seen  with  her. 


in 


Parrott's  sensational  novel. 


To  him  it  was  just  another  epi- 
sode—to her,  a  dream  she  could 
never  forget. 


with  ROBERT  MONTGOMERY 

NEIL  HAMILTON  MARJOR1E  RAMBEAU 

and  IRENE  RICH 

Directed  by 

GEORGE  FITZMAURICE 


Ursula  Parrott,  author  of  "The 
Divorcee"  has  written  another 
absorbing   story.   Don't  miss  it! 


METR0-G0v*9H>  N-MAYER 


n'srsnRtis^v        "Wore  Sums  Than  There  Arc  in  Heaven' 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

■■.  iim  i  :■  ntOU  FA    i    12 


J\\\s  OF  hi  i  i  \i     World  WW 

I  he  old  poem  "  I  he  (  barge  "i  the  I  Ighl  Hi 
and  in  ik.t  the  .  h  irge  i  prrtl)  thrtllina  business     I  ha 
romantic  ->t .  .r  \  ••  .i  oil  weak     {Mm 

JUNI  MOON      Pal  ii.i.uni       You'll  lik-  II. 
King  Lardnei  irrote  the  wisecracking  lines  ind  Jack 
put*  them  ovei  with  .1  bang.     t  \pnl) 

•      II  M    IM  vi.IM          ia      I  lie  . 
buffoonery,   funny,   ir and   differenl       II 

I  heads  ti.  .  ■      ["op  entertainment, 

JUST  I. IKK.  iik  win     '.-t.,nv  Prodoctloaa      \ 
almple  little  romance  between  ■  toe  dancer 
balloon  peddler     Fifteen-year-old  Anita  Louise  i*  the 
heroine,    (Feb.) 

KEPT  ill  sii  whs  |y en- 

tertainment   Dorothy  MackaiU  and  Joel  M. « 
attractive  pair  and  the  still  beaaUful  Clara  Kimball 
\  oung  returns  t.>  us. 

•     KIKI  -United    Artists.  —  Presenting  .1  sew 
Man    Pickford,  saucy  and  sophisticated  in  .1 
grand  comedy.    You  can  safely  take  the  kids, 
iu'd  Denny  is  the  load.    iApru) 

*K  ISMBT— Fir-.t     National.— Distinguished 
On-  Skinner  makes  his  talkie  how.    Beautiful 
lantaay,  but  fantasy.    (Dae.) 

I  \DY  REFUSES,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— If  you 
want  a  good  cry.  here's  your  chance.    Rather  an  old 

story,  but  Hetty  Compson.  Gilbert  Emery  and  John 
Darrow  make  it  realistic.     [April) 

I   \DY   SURRENDERS,   A—  Universal.— Marital 
-ubtly   and  delightfully  described    by   Conrad 

N'agel,  Genevieve  Tobin,  Rose  Hobart  and  Basil 
Katlibone.     A  charming  picture.     (Dec.) 

•     LADY'S  MORALS.  A— M-G-M.—  Introduc- 
ing Grace  Moore,  young  and  beautiful  Metro- 
I  Opera  prima  donna.     A   lovely   voice  an  I  a 
charming  story,   based  on  the  life  of  Jenny   Lind. 
Reginald  Denny  is  fine  oppositi  the  star.     (Dec.) 

I   \ND    OF     MISSING     MEN.     THE— Tiffany 

Productions. — A  Hob  Steele  W'est-rn.  Hard  ridin  , 
and  lliat's  all  there  is  to  it.      (Jan.) 

LASH,   THE— First  National.— (Reviewed  under 
the  title  "Adio-  "1.     Richard   Hartii.  lin  ■--  as  an  early 
1  nia    Robin    Hood.       Colorful    and    charming. 
You'll  like  it.     (Dec.) 

I  1ST  OF  THE  LONE  WOLF— Columbia.— The 
perennial  Lone  Wolf  in  the  person  of  ageless  Bert 
Lj  tell.  After  much  rushing  about,  Bert  preserve-  the 
queen's  fair  name!  It  all  happens  in  mythical 
Saxonia.     (Jan.) 

•  I  \l  (.11  IK.R  — Paramount.— Nancy  Carroll 
and  Fredric  March  in  love — with  a  millionaire 
husband  in  the  background,  A  bewitching  picture. 
See  it.     (Dec.) 

I    KNICMATIOUE     MONSIEUR     PARSES    — 

Paramount.  —  The  French  version  of  "Slightly 
Scarlet,"  with  M  Adotpbe  Menjou  and  Mile.  Claud- 
ette  Colbert  in  the  leads.  Made  for  the  French,  but 
interesting  to  Americans.  t.«>.     (  Sov.) 

LIFE    OF    THE    PARTY.    THE— Warners.— 

Winnie  Lightncr  roughhousos  in  high  class  Techni- 
color and  Havana's  fast  set.     What  laughs!     (.' 

*1  IGHTNIN* — Fox. — Don't  miss  this,  for  it's 
Will  Rogers  at  his  best.  A  real  story  about 
the  Nevada  divorce  mill,  a  tine  cast,  brilliant  di- 
rection. And  the  choicest  K.x  itions. 
What   more  could  you  ask'      'Jan.) 

•      LII.IOM — Fox. — A     fine     picture     mar- 
screen    debut    of    a    striking    young    emotional 

actress,  Rose  Hobart.    Charles  Farrell  is  an  en 

Liliom.  but  he  never  seems  quite  at  home  without 
his  Janet.      ( A'oe.) 

LION  AND  THE  LAMB,  THE-Columbia.— A 
gangster  story  supposed  to  be  good  clean  tun.  It's 
clean,  anyway.  Miriam  Seegar,  t  armel  Myers  and 
Walter  Byron  are  the  principals.      (Jan.) 

LITTLE  CAESAR— First  National Dontdecide 

you're  led   up  on  underworld   movies  before   ■ 

seen  this  one.     It's  worth  it.  thanks  to  brilliant  work 

by  Edward  G.  Robinson  and  Doug.  Jr.     (Dec.) 

LITTLE  CAFE,  THE  (LE  PETIT  CAFE)— Para- 
mount.— Chevalier's  French  version  of  "Playboy  of 
Paris''  and  simply  great.  Gay  and  charming  with 
more  songs  added  and  his  wife.  Yvonne  Vallee. 
(April) 


•  MINIM     H  l\  I   s 

Holt  on  grr  il  . 
Kut  li   Miller,    Esthei    K 

an  las  mii«  ln\ olved 
I. oni  BOM    1  k  Ml  .   1 111  lures. 

Pier   ' 

is  the  hero  and  Virginia   Hr. 
daughter.    Elds  will  kn 

1  OOffl       1  NDS     British      tnl 

British  it    .1   problem  dr. 1111       W<  ik  and 

word) 

l.OYF.     II  Mil  I  .      I  HK.      British     Int.  • 

British  conception  of  1  French  bedroom  I 
heavy.    (April) 

l.OVE    KISS.     I  111  brlty    Productions— A 

nice    little   college   coine,|\    with    plenty   of    romance 
and  laughter.      ( March.) 

LOVE   TRADER.    THE— Tiffany    Product. 
Leatrice  Joy,  blonde  and  beautiful,  in  a  seductive 

Hawaiian  locale.    See  it  for  Leatrice.     <Ucc.) 

M  \!>ONN  \   OK  THE  STREETS— Columbia.— 
Evelyn    Brent  triumphs  over  the  old  yarn  about  the 

: 


Producer  Announcements 

of  j\ew  Pictures 

and  Stars 

While  all  good  advertising  is  news, 
we  consider  producer  advertising 
of  particular  interest  to  our  read- 
ers. With  this  directory  you  easily 
can  locate  each  announcement: 

Educational  Pictures  .   .   Page  109 
First  National  Pictures  . .  Page  1 1 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer..Page  14 
Paramount  Pictures  .  .  .  Page  4 

Radio  Pictures Page  107 

Warner  Bros Page  7 


M\N     FROM    CHICAGO,    THE—  F.lstre-    Pro- 
's. —The    British  go  hay-wire  on   this  -t 
Chicago  gangsters  and  their  ladies.     Skip  thil 
(Mai 

M  \N  TO  M  \N — Warners. — (Reviewed  und-r  the 
title  "  Barber  John's  Boy.")     A  father  return-  I 

after  eighteen  years  in  prison.  Grant  Mitchell 
and  Phillips  Holmes  are  good,  but  the  picture  l-n  t 
always  convincing.     (Dee.) 

M  \\  WHO  CAMS  BACK,  THE— Fox— Parr  II 

and  Gaynor  sink  to  the  depths,   but   I 

them.        Not    a     "7th     Heaven''     but    worth    - 
(March.) 

M\NY  \  SLIP  Universal. — Joan  Bennett  and 
Lew  Ayres  in  a  wise-cracking  dialogue  comedy.  You 
may.  but  you  probably  won't,  like  it. 


MEN    ON    C\LL — Fox. — Edmund    I 
his  time  and  talents  in  a  bad  story.     (March.) 

MEN  wiiiiin   1  1  \\\     Columbia.— Buck 

•:is  Ins  Western  heroics  in  an  interesting  Span- 
ish focafrand  wins  the  beautiful  Carmehta  Geraghty. 
(Feb.) 

Ml  UN  |(;|IT  SPECIAL.  THE— Chesterfield  Prod. 

■  ng  new.  but  plenty  oi  excitement.    Good  for 
the  kids.     (April) 


MIL!  n 

•  pl.-n  ' 

MIN     \NH    KM  I 

Marie 

I 

Mlsl'.l  11  \\  |\(,  I    M)ll  s  -The 

II    laugh    .1! 

No*.) 

•     MOROt  I  O     Paramount.— The 
1  lene  Dirtrfa  h,  will  -tir  up  a 
Gary  I  .:ii  Le- 

gionnaire.     Hot  Stuff,  this.       Dec.) 

MOTHERS  <  Ki      ;      •  NationaL— A  best 
turm-d  Into  a  good  pictui  rb  act- 

ing of  1 .  1-  tie  mot 

•     MOTHER'S    MILLIONS— Liberty    Prod.— 
Humor,  pathos,  bright  dialogue  and  splendid 

acting   make   this   a   delightfully   entertaining 
May  Robson  is  the  mother.     (April) 

MI'RDER  —  British     International. — Smart     and 
entertaining   mystery  drama  with  a   travelling 
company  as  the  background  and  a  first-rate  amateur 
detective.     (Jan.) 

MY  PAST— Warners.— 'Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Ex-M  Mr.  and   Mrs.   B 

don'       Tie-    Ben    LyoUSCS    in    an    ultra-modern    love 
story  which  is  highly  entertaining.     (Feb.) 

•      NEW  MOON— M-G-M.— Music  of  the  drama 
rate,  with  the  gr  .g  combina- 

•1   the  screen.    Metropolitan  Opera's   Lawi 
Tibbett  and  Grace   Moore.        (  olor,  drama,  Ix-auty. 
melody  combine  in  a  real  musical  smash.      (Jan.) 

NIGHT    BIRDS    —     British     International.     — 
ma,  with  much  a-do  over  a  killing. 
Not  so  bad.      I  March.) 

NO  LIMIT — Paramount. — Clara  Bow  as  a  flapp-T, 
an  usherette  and  a  gangsters  moll,  and  wearing 
some  amazing  clothes.  You  may  be  amused. 
(March.) 

NOT    EXACTLY    GENTLEMEN  -  Fox.— Three 
men's   battles   for   a    map.   a    girl    (Kay    Wrai 
riches.    Top-notch  entertain  me  nt     Victor  Mil 
Lew  Cody  and  Eddie  Gribbon  share  acting  I. 
(April) 

OH.  FOR   \  MAN1  -Fox.— A  bright  and  merry 

irglar. 
Reginald  Denny's  the  burg! 

.1       (Jan.) 

ONCE    \    SINNER         1   -The  oldest   tvpe  of 

triangle     story.       The     • 

D      thy  MackaiU,  Joel  Mci  rea  and  John  Halliday 

make  it  well  worth  s- 

•      ONE  HI  V\  I  Nl  'i    NIGHT     1": 
(Reviewed  under  the  title  "The  Queen  of  Scan- 
but  a  hit.    England's  I 
rming  and  Texas'  John   Boles  in  grand 

ONLY  SAPS  WORK— Paramount— Mr.  I  /-on 
F.rrol  and  bis  trick  I  with  this  comedy 

about  lovers  and  thieves.     (Feb.) 

OTHER  MEN'S  WOMEN 

under  the  title  "T 

and     V 

F'airly  entertainii  . 

•     OlTVt  \RD  BO!  ni>      ' 
rd.     All  are 

finely  produced  and  acted  by  Jr., 

Helen  Chandlr.  1  INS.     (Nat.) 

*P\ID      M         V  title 

"Wit 

st.ry  il  and  Joan  is  simply  grand,    (./an.) 

PAIN  II  l>  DESERT,  THE— Path*.— A  Western 
which  you  11  like  I  le  hero  and 

Helen  Twelve  trees  the  girl. 

•      PARLOR.      BEDROOM    IND  BATH 
M-G  '  this  farce.    Buster  K.-a- 

ton  ar  !  race  for  b 

I  >ver.   Buster  is  araarr. 

[  PLEASE  TIRN  TO  PAGE   16  ] 

15 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FKOU  PAGE  15  ] 


PART  TIME  WIFE— Fox— Hokum,  but  enter- 
taining.   Eddie  Lowe  makes  grand  work  of  a  funny 

r6lr  and  little  Tommy  "Souk  o'  My  Heart"  Clifford 
is  a  natural.     (Jan.) 

PASSION  FLOWER— M-G-M.— Charles  Hick- 
ford,  Kay  Johnson  and  Kay  Francis  form  the  good 
Old  eternal  triangle.  Interesting  people  in  a  good 
film.      (Jan.) 

PAY  OFF,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  a  dress-suit  crook  in  a  smart,  sophisticated 
crook  drama.     It's  a  pip.     (Nov.) 

PHANTOM    OF  THE   DESERT,  THE— Syndi- 
lark  Perrin  in  a  true-to-type  Western.    Pienty 
of  hard  ridin'  and  fast  shootin'.    (Feb.) 

PINCHOT'S  SOUTH  SEA  CRUISE— Travel- 
Epics. — The  ex-governor  of  Pennsylvania  took  some 
interesting  pictures  oi  a  South  Seas  cruise.  Nostudio 
faking  in  this  one.      (Jan.) 

PLAYBOY  OF  PARIS— Paramount.— Chevalier 
deserves  better  than  this  light  farce,  which  is  amus- 
inu  only  in  spots.  And  only  two  songs  from  Mauricel 
(Nov.) 

PRINCESS  AND  THE  PLUMBER,  THE— Fox. 

— A  young  American  millionaire  (Charles  Karrell) 
and  a  beautiful  princess  (Maureen  O'SuIlivan).  You 
know  what  happens — a  harmless  little  light  comedv. 
(Feb.) 

RANGO — Paramount. — A  stirring  jungle  picture 
with  a  real  story.  Magnificent.  Different.  Don't 
mistake  it  for  "just  another  wild  animal  picture." 
(Feb.) 

REACHING  FOR  THE  MOON— United  Art- 
ists.— Doug  Fairbanks  bounds  through  a  dizzy  com- 
edy as  a  go-getting  stock  broker.  Different  for  Doug 
and  very  merry.  Bebe  Daniels  is  the  big  romance. 
(Feb.) 

REDUCING— M-G-M.— Marie  Dressier  and  Polly 
Moran  cut  up  in  a  beauty  parlor.  Need  we  add  you'll 
die  laughing?    (Feb.) 

REMOTE  CONTROL— M-G-M.— Billy  Haines 
as  a  radio  announcer.  A  great  chance  for  laughs  and 
they  haven't  been  overlooked.     (Dec.) 

RENEGADES— Fox.— Warner  Baxter  in  an  ex- 
citing story  of  the  Foreign  Legion,  with  Myrna  Loy 
as  the  feminine  spy.     (Jan.) 

•  RESURRECTION— Universal.— Talkie  ver- 
sion of  the  old  tale  is  a  triumph  for  Lupe 
Yelcz.  She's  all  fire,  beauty  and  sincerity.  Well 
directed  and  John   Boles  sings  nicely.     (March.) 

RIDIN'  FOOL,  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Great 
little  Western.  Will  furnish  the  kids  with  plenty  of 
thrills.     (April) 

RIGHT  TO  LOVE,  THE— Paramount— Ruth 
Chatterton  in  a  real  dramatic  gem.  Ruth  and  the 
technicians  collaborate  in  putting  over  the  most  con- 
vincing dual  role  ever  filmed.    (Feb.) 

RIVER'S  END— Warners.— A  lusty  Curwood  he- 
story,  with  Charles  Bickford  in  a  dual  r61e.     (Dec.) 

ROYAL  BED,  THE— Radio  Pictures  — Lowell 
Sherman  directs  himself  in  a  smart,  amusing  comedy 
about  modern  royalty.  Mary  Astor  is  a  gorgeous 
princess  and  the  veteran  Nance  O'Neil,  a  grand 
queen.    (Feb.) 

•  ROYAL  FAMILY  OF  BROADWAY,  THE 
— Paramount. — A  brilliantly  done  comedy  of 
actors  at  home.  Fredric  March  does  the  work  of  his 
life.  Ina  Claire  is  marvelous.  Don't  miss  this  one. 
(Feb.) 

SANTA  FE  TRAIL,  THE— Paramount.— Richard 
Arlen  in  his  cowboy  suit.  Indians.  And  Mitzi 
Green!    If  you  like  Westerns,  all  right.    (Nov.) 

SCANDAL  SHEET— Paramount.— A  great  news- 
paper drama  with  George  Bancroft  as  the  managing 
editor  and  Kay  Francis  as  his  wife.  A  meaty  movie 
with  a  knockout  kick.    (Feb.) 

SCOTLAND  YARD— Fox— A  rattling  good 
crime  story  with  that  rattling  good  actor.  Edmund 
Lowe,  playing  a  dual  r61e.  This  film  packs  a  wallop, 
(Jan.) 

SEA  GOD,  THE— Paramount.— Wild  adventure, 
pearl  diving,  cannibals — a  real  movie.  Richard 
Arlen  and  Fay  Wray  provide  the  love  Interest. 
(Nov.) 

16 


SEA  LEGS      P    ■    unt.  — In  spite  of  Jack  Oakie, 

Harry  Green  and  Eugene  Pallette,  this  comedj 

very  comical.     (Jan.) 

•  SEAS  BENEATH— Fox.— Dashing  adventure 
story  of  submarines  during  the  war.  George 
O'Brien  does  a  grand  job.  All  the  family  will  like 
it.      (March.) 

•     SEA  WOLF,  THE— Fox.— Again  Jack  Lon- 
don's famous    Wolf  Larsen  takes  the  screen — 

with  sound.     Milton  Sills  played   Wolf  beautifully. 

His  last  picture,  and  a  noble  thriller.     (Nov.) 

SECOND  HONEYMOON,  THE— Continental. 
— Farce  comedy  of  domestic  felicity  with  Josephine 
Dunn  and  Edward  Earle.     Entertaining.     (March.) 

SEE  AMERICA  THIRST— Universal.— A  two- 
reel  plot  stretched  over  a  full-length  film  induces 
sleepiness.  Langdon  and  Summcrville  do  their  best 
to  make  it  funny.     (Jan.) 

SHADOW  RANCH— Columbia.— Buck  Jones' 
new  Western  is  a  cracker  jack.     (Dec.) 

SHE  GOT  WHAT  SHE  WANTED— Cruze-Tif- 
fany. — An  hourful  of  guffaws  over  old  man  Boris  and 
his  philandering  wife.  Betty  Compson's  the  wife  and 
darn  good's  the  picture.     (Dec.) 


What  a  Story! 

Every  now  and  then,  out  of  the 
hundreds  of  manuscripts  that  pour 
into  the  Photoplay  offices,  we  pluck 
a  fiction  story  so  thrilling,  so  roman' 
tic,  so  exciting  that  we  can't  help 
shouting  about  it.    Such  a  story  is 

"Pale  Hands  I  Loved" 

written  by  Margaret  E.  Sangster ,  one 
of  the  most  brilliant  of  the  younger 
tale-tellers.  You'll  be  as  crazy  about 
it  as  we  are!  Watch  for  "Pale  Hands 
I  Loved"  in  the  June  issue  of 

Photoplay 

On  sale  everywhere  May  15 


SILVER  HORDE,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Rex 
Beach's  salmon-fishing  thriller  makes  a  tingling  phon- 
oplav  and  Evelyn  Brent  makes  a  brand  new  hit. 
(Dee.) 

SINGLE  SIN.  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Nothing 
new,  but  splendidly  handled.  Kay  Johnson  does  some 
fine  acting.  Bert  I.ytell.  Mathew  Betz  and  Paul 
Hurst  lend  good  support.     (April) 

SIN  SHIP,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Louis  Wol- 
heim,  as  actor  and  director,  attempts  a  romantic 
r61e.    Disappointing.      (Jan.) 

•  SIN  TAKES  A  HOLIDAY— Pathe.— Don't 
miss  this.  Constance  Bennett,  beautiful 
clothes,  smart  dialogue  and  a  working-girl-boss  ro- 
mance that  has  a  feal  kick.     A  honey.     (Jan.) 

SIT  TIGHT— Warners. — Joe  E.  Brown  and  Win- 
nie Lightner  repeat  many  of  their  monkey-shines. 
But  they're  still  funny.     (Dec.) 

SOUS  LES  TOITS  DE  PARIS  (Under  the  Roofs 
of  Paris) — Tobis. — Skilful  pantomine  makes  this 
enjoyable  French  dialogue  picture  comprehensible 
without  knowledge  of  that  language.  Two  of  the 
songs  are  hummers.     (Feb.) 

•  SOUTHERNER,  THE— M-G-M.— Lawrence 
Tibbett  in  a  gay,  charming  comedy — and  how 
he  sings!  Esther  Ralston,  too,  and  more  beautiful 
than  ever.     (March.) 


•  SPOILERS,  THE— Paramount.— Gary  Cooper 
and  William  Boyd  stage  a  battle  wilder  than 
the  memorable  fight  between  William  Farnum  and 
Tom  Santschi,  which  made  screen  history.  Red 
meat  melodrama,  packed  with  action,  suspense  and 
thrills.      (Nov.) 

SPURS  —  Universal.  —  Here's  hard-ridin'  Hoot 
Gibson  in  a  Western  that's  a  Western.  It's  fast, 
from  the  first  shot  to  the  last.     (Nov.) 

SQUEALER,  THE— Columbia.— If  you  can  stand 
another    gangster   picture,    this   one    has   some    new 
Well  acted  by  Jack  Holt,  Dorothy  Revier 
and  Davey  Lee.     (Nov.) 

STOLEN  HEAVEN— Paramount.— Slow,  unreal 
story.  Nancy  Carroll  and  Phillips  Holmes  fine  in  trie 
romantic  moments.     (April) 

STORM  OVER  ASIA— Amkino.— Another  of  the 
powerful  Revolutionary  pictures  from  Soviet  Russia 
dramatizing  the  Communist  revolt  against  the  White 
Army  in  1918.    A  smash  ending.    Silent.     (Nov.) 

STORM,  THE— Universal.— This  storm  is  no 
tornado.  A  very  tame  melodrama.  Even  Lupe 
Velez  is  tame  as  the  little  girl  of  the  Great  Northwest. 

(Nov.) 

•     SUNNY — Firsi  National. — Singie  or  not.  it's 
a  gem.      Radiant   Marilyn   Miller  smashes  it 
across.     (Dec.) 

SUNRISE  TRAIL,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— A  Western  with  too  much  talking  and  not  enough 
action.      (March.) 

SUSPENSE— British  International.— A  war  story 
and  a  pretty  slow  one.  Vic  McLaglen's  brother  Cyril 
is  in  it.     (Jan.) 

•  SWEET  KITTY  BELLAIRS— Warners.— A 
dainty  operetta,  beautifully  photographed  in 
Technicolor.  Claudia  Dell,  charming  new  star,  is 
Kitty;  Walter  Pidgeon,  the  baritone  hero.     (Nov.) 

SWEETHEARTS  ON  PARADE— Columbia.— 
Just  another  pure  little  country  girl  among  the  bad, 
big-town  millionaires.  Alice  White  is  the  sweet 
young  thing.     (Nov.) 

TEN  NIGHTS  IN  A  BARROOM— Willis  Kent 
Production.  —  Old-fashioned  maudlin  melodrama, 
elaborately  overacted.  The  villain  is  Demon  Rum. 
(Nov.) 

THIRD  ALARM,  THE— Tiffany  Productions.— 
Out  come  the  old  fire  engines  to  make  a  big  noise. 
But  no  matter  how  hard  Jimmy  Hall  and  Hobart 
Bosworth  try,  it's  just  one  of  those  things.    (Jan.) 

THOROUGHBRED,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
—Wesley  "Freckles"  Barry  is  the  nice  little  jockey 
hero  of  a  nice  little  horse  story  for  the  family  trade. 
(Nov.) 

THOSE  THREE  FRENCH  GIRLS— M-G-M.— 
Not  even  Reginald  Denny  and  Ukclele  Ike  make  this 
unfunny  hodge-podge  worth  while.  Fifi  Dorsay, 
Yola  D'Avril  and  Sandra  Ravel  are  the  girls.    (Ncr.) 

3  GIRLS  LOST— Fox.— Loretta  Young.  Joan 
Marsh  and  Joyce  Compton  are  the  three  little  girls 
who  come  to  the  big  city.  Lew  Cody  good  as  the 
racketeer  and  John  Wayne  not  so  good.     (April) 

TODAY — Majestic. — One  of  those  sensationals — 
all  hell,  sex  and  box-office.  Hokum,  but  there's  Con- 
rad Nagel  to  hold  you.     (Dec.) 

•     TOL'ABLE    DAVID— Columbia.— A    pretty 
grand  film,  excellently  directed,  and  beautifully 
acted  by  the  newcomer,  Richard  Cromwell.    (Jan.) 


•  TOM  SAWYER— Paramount.— Jackie  Coo- 
gan.  Mitzi  Green.  Junior  Durkin — real  kids  in 
the  great  kid  classic.  A  corking  picture.  Don't  miss 
it.    And  by  all  means,  don't  let  the  kids.     (Dec.) 

•  TRADER  HORN— M-G-M— Harry  Carey 
magnificent  as  Trader  Horn.  Story  of  the 
African  jungle,  full  of  the  tensest  drama  and  per- 
fection in  photography.     (March.) 

TWO  WORLDS— British  International.— An 
honest,  dramatic  story  of  inter-racial  clashes — prob- 
ably the  best  of  the  recent  English  films.    (Feb.) 

UNDER  MONTANA  SKIES— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Slim  Summerville  saves  a  pretty  weak  picture 
about  a  stranded  showgirl.    (Feb.) 

[  PLEASE  TURX  TO  PAGE  137  ] 


I'i pi  w  Magazini  i <»<  May,  i     i 


New  discovery!  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash 
3  to  1 1  times  more  powerful  than  other  leading 
mouth  antiseptics!!  Checks  bad  breath  longer!!! 


THIS  new  and  revolutionary  dis- 
covery by  Pepsodent  proves  how 
far  science  has  advanced  in  the  past 
decade  in  its  fight  against  dangerous 
jgerms.  Fifty  years  ago  little  was  known 
labout  bacteria,  hence  little  could  be  done 
:in  our  effort  to  destroy  them.  Today, 
[with  the  discovery  of  the  powerful  Pepso- 
dent Antiseptic  Mouth  Wash,  we  stand 
'far  better  equipped." 

Those  are  the  words  of  a  distinguished 
•  scientist  after  completing  laboratory  tests 
on  this  far-reaching  new  discovery.  Some 
of  America's  leading  bacteriological  labo- 
ratories duplicate  his  work  and  find  the 
same  phenomenal  results.  That  is  im- 
pressive proof  of  its  superiority. 

From  Pepsodent  laboratories 

This  remarkable  discovery  is  a  new  and 
powerful  weapon  in  fighting  germs.  It 
combats  bad  breath  immediately. 

The  formula  comes  from  the  Pepsodent 
tooth  paste  laboratories,  whose  contri- 
bution to  dental  hygiene  has  won  high 
recognition.  Under  the  label  of  Pepso- 
dent Antiseptic  Mouth  Wash  it  is  being 
widely  distributed  in  the  public  interest. 

Cleanses — purifies  the  mouth 

The   active  agent  used  in   Pepsodent 


Mouth  Wash,  as  determined  by  standard 
tests,  is  many  times  more  potent  than  pure 
carbolic  acid,  for  all  time  the  standard  germi- 
cide. Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  is  non-poison- 
ous, safe  and  soothing. 

Immediately  after  you  use  it,  95%  of  the 
germs  in  the  mouth  are  destroyed.  Their  num- 
ber is  still  reduced  70%  at  the  end  of  two 
hours'  time — that  is  far  longer  acting  than 
many  other  leading  mouth  washes. 

"We  find,"  states  one  laboratory,  "Pepso- 
dent Mouth  Wash  kills  the  stubborn  pus-pro- 
ducing germs  (M.  Aureus)  in  the  fastest 
time  it  is  possible  for  science  to  record — we 
believe  faster  than  has  previously  been  the 
standard  for  other  leading  mouth  washes.' 

Checks  bad  breath 

With  this  revolutionary  discovery  comes 
a  social  safeguard:  remarkable  protection 
against  offensive  breath.  A  laboratory 
director  states:  "Tests  prove  conclusively 
that  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  overcomes 
bad  breath  1  to  2  hours  longer  than  many 
other  leading  antiseptic  mouth  washes." 

At  your  druggist's  — today 

Go  today  and  get  a  bottle.  Secure  this 
added  protection  plus  the  greater  assur- 
ance of  a  pure,  sweet  breath. 


Consult  Your 
Dentist,  Physician 

In  the  opinion  of  some  authori- 
ties, most  breath  odors  come 
from  such  minor  causes  as  neg- 
lected, unclean  mouth,  tooth  de- 
cay, slight  infections  of  nose  and 
throat,  excessive  smoking.  If. 
after  using  Pepsodent  Mouth 
Wash,  bad  breath  persists  in  re- 
turning, seek  medical  and  dental 
advice  to  remove  the  cause. 


*Most  people  add  water  before 
using  a  mouth  wash.  Hence, 
dilutions  of  Pepsodent  Mouth 
Wash  are  compared  with  other 
antiseptics  tested  either  at  full 
strength  or  in  the  dilution 
recommended  by  the  manu- 
facturer. It  goes  many  times 
as  far  as  many  mouth  washes 
which  must  be  used  FULL 
STRENGTH    to   be   effective. 

COSTS  MUCH   LESS 


Pepsodent   Antiseptic   Mouth  Wash 

A  revolutionary  mouth  wash  just  discovered  by  the  Pepsodent  tooth  paste  laboratories 


^7^611ywo°d  tells  some 


Fay  Wray  steams  her  hair  over  a  bowl  of  hot  water,  to 
bring  out  the  wave.  Even  very  straight  hair  will  some- 
times respond  to  this  treatment.  While  the  hair  is  still 
moist  and  warm  from  the  steam,  comb  and  pat  it  into  soft 
waves  and  curls 


YOU  straight-haired  girls  who  long  for  natural  curls — 
I  wonder  if  you  realize  that  Garbo,  to  whom  every 
adjective  in  praise  of  feminine  good  looks  has  been 
applied,  has  made  of  her  straight  hair  one  of  her 
greatest  assets? 

You  girls  whose  figures  are  not  as  perfect  as  you  would  have 
them,  whose  teeth  need  the  attention  of  a  dentist — how  much 
you  can  learn  from  Norma  Shearer! 

You  discouraged  girls  who  write  me  for  a  word  of  advice  and 
at  the  same  time  tell  me  that  you  know  you  can't  be  helped, 
that  you  are  "just  hopeless"  as  far  as  looks  are  concerned. 
Why  don't  you  stop  thinking  vaguely  about  this  much  talked 
of  subject,  feminine  beauty,  and  get  it  down  to  a  practical  basis? 
You  will  remember  that  a  few  months  ago  the  newspapers 
featured  a  list  of  the  six  most  beautiful  women  of  the  screen 
as  selected  by  a  well-known  British  painter  and  photographer 
of  beautiful  women.  He  chose  Greta  Garbo,  Marlene  Dietrich, 
Norma  Shearer,  Lilyan  Tashman,  Marion  Davies  and  Ina 
Claire. 

If  you  want  to  know  what  physical  obstacles  Norma  Shearer 
had  to  overcome  before  she  could  be  included  in  such  a  list  you 
need  only  turn  to  Katherine  Albert's  story  (in  this  issue)  of 
Xorma's  never-ending  struggle  for  screen  success.  Read  it 
right  now,  and  then  turn  back  to  this  one.  You  will  be  more 
in  the  mood  to  appreciate  how  much  of  beauty  is  made,  not 
born. 

In  spite  of  Greta  Garbo's  straight-as-a-stick  hair,  girls  (and 
men,  too)  speculate  eagerly  about  each  forthcoming  Garbo 
picture,  wondering  what  new  style  of  hairdressing  she  will 
create  and  whether  it  will  be  as  becoming  as  previous  ones. 

If  she  didn't  have  straight  hair  that  adapted  itself  to  the 
whims  and  waves  of  the  hairdresser  she  could  not  have  achieved 

18 


Beauty 


ECRETS 


the  variety  of  effects  that  have  helped  to  give  charm  to 
her  roles.  Her  most  famous  hairdress,  the  Garbo  long 
bob,  was  possible  only  because  her  hair  could  be  brushed 
down  straight  and  sleek  and  the  ends  curled  out  care- 
lessly for  contrast. 

In  naming  Ina  Claire,  the  British  artist  said  she 
"typifies  gayety,  youth,  laughter."  Think  of  that,  you 
girls  who  are  approaching  or  already  in  your  middle 
thirties  and  concerned  with  wrinkles  and  graying  hair. 


M! 


ISS  CLAIRE,  too,  has  left  the  "glowing  twenties" 
behind  her.    She  served  the  legitimate  stage  well  for 
many  years  before  she  became  a  screen  star.     She  has 
worked  hard,  in  a  difficult  profession,  and  faced  many  dis- 
appointments.   Yet  she  was  chosen  as  one  of  the  beauties 
of  the  films  because  of  her  joy  in  living,  which  is  reflected 
in  her  face.    It  is  that  attitude  that  has  helped  to  keep  her 
eyes  clear  and  shining,  her  complexion  more  flawless  than 
that  of  most  sixteen-year-olds,  her  figure  young  and  supple. 
Marion  Davies,  also,  was  chosen  because  of  her  vivid- 
ness and  vivacity,  rather  than  for  outstanding  physical 
perfection.     Lilyan  Tashman's  features  and  figure  are 
lovely.    But  the  air  of  distinction  she  has  cultivated,  the 
carriage  she  has  achieved,  the  flair  for  style  she   has 
constant!}'    developed,    have    been    far    more    important    iir 
registering  her  as  an  outstanding  beauty. 

And  then  there's  Marlene  Dietrich.  Study  her  nose  in 
profile.  Many  of  my  readers  have  wept  bitter  tears  over  more 
nearly  perfect  noses.  But  Miss  Dietrich,  too,  gives  an  illusion 
of  beauty  that  is  far  more  compelling  than  absolute  physical 
perfection. 

Now,  let's  talk  about  some  of  the  methods  by  which  the  stars 
achieve  beauty  and  keep  it.  Many  of  these  cherished  "beauty 
secrets"  are  simple  formulas  that  any  girl  can  follow.  That's 
why  I  want  to  share  them  with  you. 

Gloria  Swanson,  who  has  held  her  place  as  one  of  the  most 
attractive  women  of  the  screen,  has  what  she  calls  a  "luxury 
bath"  after  her  regular  bath.  [  please  turn  to  page  100  ] 


ARE  you  overweight?  Send  for  my  booklet  of 
normalizing  exercises  and  non-fattening  men- 
us. Are  you  troubled  with  blackheads  or  acne? 
My  complexion  leaflet  will  help  you.  A  stamped, 
self-addressed  envelope  will  bring  you  either,  or 
both,  or  any  other  advice  on  personal  problems. 
There  is  no  charge  and  your  letters  will  be  held 
in  strict  confidence. 

Address  me  at  PHOTOPLAY,  221  West  57th  Street, 
New  York  City. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


Pbotopi  w  M  to \/ini    1 01  M  w  .  i     i 


'9 


If  You  Were  a  ScAC^^Star 
Make-Up 

Max  r actors 

Although  Stardom  May  Be  Just  a 
Cherished  Dream . . .  the  Ravishing 
Beauty,  the  Alluring  Charm  You've 
Longed  for  Max  Now  Be  a  Reality 

Hollywood's  Make-Up  Genius 
1  xplains  How  You  Can  Realize 
Your  Dream  of  Beauty  with  an 
EntireK    New  Kind  of  Make-Up 

IN  Hollywood,  make-up  means  so  much  .  .  .  more 
than  the  enhancement  of  beauty  .  .  .  more  than  just  a  puff 
ot  powder  or  a  pat  ot  rouge.  It  means  the  study  of  tvpes  ...  of 
per-onalities  .  .  .  ot  individual  complexion  colorings.  The  reward  is  a  new 
beauty  .  .  .  even  a  new  personality. . .  alluring,  magnetic,  fascinating  .  .  .  like  an 
artist's  vision  ot  feminine  loveliness  given  the  vibrant  animation  of  life. 

For  more   than   twenty  years   now,  it   has  been   Max   Factor's  honor  to  create 
make-up  tor  the  famous  stars  ot  the  screen.  And  as  the  glorious  beauty  of  your  favorite 
star  Hashes  on  the  screen,  you  see  the  matchless  artistry  of  make-up  by  Max   Factor,  for  in 
all  Hollywood  Studios  ...  in  all  the  thrilling  pictures  of  the  \ear  .  .  .  Max    Factor's  Make- 
Up    i>.   used   exclusively.    An   amazing   achievement  .  .  .  awarded   notable  recognition   by   the 
Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and  Sciences. 

Now  you  are  invited  to  share  the  magic  make-up  secrets  of  the  motion  picture  world. 

Based  on  his  revolutionary  discovery,  cosmetic  color  harmony,  Max  Factor  has  created  Society 
Makc-l'p  tor  every  woman,  tor  every  day  .  .  .  powder,  rouge,  lipstsck,  eyeshadow.  .  .  a  sensation  in 
Hollywood,  tor  street  and  social  use. 

The  magic  secret  is  a  color  harmony  ensemble  in  make-up  for  your  individual  type  ...  to  exactly 
blend  with  your  complexion  colorings,  whatever  your  variation  in  blonde,  brunette,  brownette  or  redhead 

Natural  color  tones  in  powder,  rouge,  lipstick,  eyeshadow,  etc ...  created  to  living  screen  star  types.  |-^ 

Matchless  in  their  perfection  of  luminous  depth  of  color,  in  delicacy  of  velvety  texture.  Proved  perfect  by  Wz-S* 
famous  screen  stars  whose  beauty  is  a  thrill  to  millions.  And  now 
for  you.  Max   Factor  will  create  your  own  individual  color 
harmony  in  Society  Make-Up,  in  exact  harmony  with  your 
complexion  colorings.  You'll   discover  the  one  way   to  de- 
velop your  beauty  . .  .the  charm  and  magnetism  of  your  per- 
sonality to  the  utmost.  Mail  the  courtesy  coupon  now. 

Max    Factor's   Society   Make-Up 

"  Cosmetics  of  the  Stars  " 
HOLLYWOOD 


96T  of  ill  make-up  including  Technicolor  u<cd  fcv 
Hollywood  Screen  S:ari  and  Studios  il  Mix  1 
(Lh  ,rl%th  Clakr  «/  C—m,..,  3* 

©  /y>_,-/  .U*»  fWnr 

•    •     • 

Marion  Davits  approves  the 
lovely  natural  color  imparted  by 
Max  Factor's  rouge! 


£ 


in  "The  Bachelor  Father" 
Metro-Goldvyn-Mayer  Picture . . .  Make-  Up  by  Max  Factor 

Marion  Dalies,  u  ho  never  even  thinks  of  using  any 

but  Max  Factor's  Make-Up  says  in  a  note  to  Max  Factor: 

'  e  make-up  ensemble,  as  in  the  costume  ensemble,  each 

essential  must  be  in  color  harmony  to  create  a  becoming  effect 

...and  this  I  believe,  is  the  secret  of  your  Society  Make- Up." 

STMHFOlCYdU^CdMPTETlOi<rTNl4LYS7s       J 

.!  Mr.  Max  Factor— Max  Factor  Studios,  Hollywood,  Calif.  1-: 
JJ  Dear  Sir:  Send  me  a  complimentary  copy  of  your  48-page  book,  "'  I  ht  .\V»  A't 
f\'  c/5w:fr>  M.'tr  i'p",  personal  complexion  analysts  and  make-up  color  harmony 
hart.  I  enclose   10  cents  (stamps  or   coin)  to  cover  postage  and  handling 


L_ 


mMnnrmri 


i^_ 


CCH.OI1  LASHES   O. 


"     - 


...  mm 


Amw  •**»  Owe*  Mart 


20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


THE    SAFE   ANTISEPTIC 
THE  QUICK  DEODORANT 


f  you  are  bothered 
with  scalp  irritation,  itching,  falling 
hair,  loose  dandruff,  try  Listerine  as  a 
part  of  the  regular  shampoo  or  inde- 
pendent of  it.  Douse  it  on  full  strength 
and  massage  the  scalp  vigorously. 
You  will  be  delighted  by  results. 
Many  thousands  of  men  and  women 
have  ended  minor  scalp  troubles  by 
this  pleasant  treatment.  We  print 
below  some  of  the  many  letters  we 
have  received  from  those  whom  Lis- 
terine has  benefitted.  Read  them. 
They  may  suggest  a  solution  for  your 
trouble.  Lambert  Pharmacal  Com- 
pany, St.  Louis,  Mo.,  U.  S.  A. 


Ended  Dandruff  Permanently 

I  have  thick,  curly  hair  and  have  always 
been  troubled  with  dandruff  and  dry, 
itching  scalp.  I  disliked  to  wear  dark 
gowns  because  the  dandruff  would  fall  on 
the  neck  and  shoulders  and  I  was  em- 
barrassed by  having  the  loose  particles 
show  in  my  hair. 

One  day  a  friend  and  I  were  preparing 
for  a  party  and  she  offered  to  shampoo  my 
hair  for  me.  I  noticed  a  bottle  of  Listerine 
in  her  medicine  cabinet,  but  when  she 
took  it  out  and  started  to  pour  some  on 
my  scalp  I  protested.  And  then  she  told 
me  how  much  it  had  helped  her.  She  ex- 
plained that  she  not  only  used  it  when  she 
shampooed  her  hair,  but  also  when  she 
did  not  have  time  for  a  thorough  washing 
she  would  rub  a  little  on  her  scalp  with 
the  finger-tips  and,  after  a  few  minutes' 
massage  and  a  brisk  brushing,  her  hair 
would  look  lovely  and  glossv.  I  was 
skeptical,  but  decided  that  trying  one 
more  product  could  not  make  matters  any 
worse. 

Now  I  am  one  of  Listerine's  most  en- 
thusiastic boosters.  It  cannot,  in  mv 
opinion,  be  duplicated  by  the  use  of  any 


do  you  Know  that 

LIST£Rin<E 

.  .  .  removes  loose  dandruff? 
•  •  •  ends  scalp  irritation? 
•  .  •  sets  a  finger  wave  ? 

.  .  •  combats  oily  condition? 


other  so-called  dandruff  remover.  It  is 
not  just  a  temporary  cure;  it  really  destroys 
dandruff  definitely. 

Sincerely  yours, 
Doris  MacDonald, 
By  wood,  Pa. 

Beauty  Expert  Likes  It 

For  a  number  of  years  I  worked  in  one  of 
the  best  beauty  shops  in  our  city  as  an 
operator.  We  prided  ourselves  in  our 
shampoos,  and  always  used  a  lotion  to 
loosen  the  dandruff  and  foreign  matter 
before  beginning  a  shampoo.  Later  I 
opened  a  shop  of  my  own  and  wished  to 
give  the  same  kind  of  shampoos  as  I  had 
in  the  other  shop.  I  could  not  use  the 
lotion  as  it  was  sold  at  wholesale  prices 
to  members  of  that  particular  organiza- 
tion only. 

I  overcame  that  obstacle  as  I  remem- 
bered the  sameness  in  the  odor  of  that 
lotion  and  Listerine.  Having  seen  your 
advertisements,  I  immediately  stocked  my 


shop  with  Listerine.  I  am  ready  to  tell 
even-one  that  my  shampoos  were  just  as 
popular  and  effective  as  any  expensive 
shampoo  on  the  market. 

I  know  from  my  experience  that  no  one 
can  go  wrong  by  using  Listerine  before  a 
shampoo  for  the  correction  of  dandruff 
and  that  tingly,  new  feeling  the  scalp  has 
after  use. 

Yours  truly, 

Mary  Duke, 
Wichita,  Kansas 

Restored  Hair  Beauty 

I  am  a  teacher  and  am  constantly  in  chalk 
dust  and  imagine  the  state  of  health  my 
scalp  is — or  was — in.  My  desk  is  directly 
under  the  ventilator,  too,  which  means 
added  dust.  Listerine  has  been  a  boon  to 
me,  and  has  restored  my  hair  to  its  former 
sheen  and  feeling  of  well-being. 
Sincerely, 

Helen  E.  Haight, 
Austin,  Pa. 


s 


Uun-ell 


HERE  he  is — the  toast  of  tea  parties  and  the  pet  of  pretty 
picture-goers  from  Coast  to  Co .-:.    Yes,  and  the  men  like 
him  too!    Robert  Montgomer  nlm  career  has  been  a  big 

parade  of  personal  hits — and  now  he  delivers  another  knockout 
opposite  Norma  Shearer  in  her  new  "Strangers  May  Kiss" 


F)R  two  years  Virginia  Cherrill  had  been  working  in  a  picture 
before  her  pretty  face  was  seen  on  the  shadow  stage!  That's 
because  it  took  Chaplin  that  long  to  make  "City  Lights,"  in  which 
she  plays  his  little  blind  sweetheart.  Then  followed  her  first 
talkie  role  in  the  gay  Fox  comedy,  "Girls  Demand  Excitement" 


Bruno 


DO  you  recognize  in  this  vivid  photograph  the  harum-scarum 
heroine  ot  Harold  Lloyd's  two  latest  come  3  fety  List" 

and  "Feet  First"!"  Yep  -it's  Barbara  Kent  herself.  Bibs  is  now 
over  on  the  Gloria  Swanson  set.  where  she  plays  the  gorgeous  one's 
sister  in  her  newest  talkie  comedy,  titled  "Obey  That  Impulse" 


WE'LL  stand  right  up  in  meeting  and  state  that  nobody  in 
pictures  is  doing  any  more  consistently  good  work  than 
Barbara  Stanwyck,  who  first  bowled  us  over  in  "Ladies  of  Leisure" 
and  won  us  all  over  again  in  "Illicit."  Barbara's  latest  is  "Night 
Nurse,"  and  are  we  going  to  rush  to  see  it! 


Bruck  Weiss  designers  mini  thai 
the  mannequini  upon  which  they 
drape  their  original  designs,  wear 
Gossard  foundations.  Months  in 
advance,  Goisard  figure  garments 
inspire  the  designers  to  achieve 
the  smart  lines  for  which  Bruck 
Weiss  costumes  are  so  justly  fa- 
mous. In  the  charming  atmosphere 
of  the  Bruck  Weiss  Salon,  fashion- 
able New  York  social  personages 
select  their  gowns  and  wraps  with 
confidence  that  comes  with  com- 
plete fashion  assurance  —  experi- 
enced by  those  clever  women  who 
have  worn   Bruck -Weiss   creations. 


BRUCK-WEISS  Designers 
Create  their  Originals  over 
GO#ARD  Corseted  Models 


The    picturesque    dropped- 
shoulder   capelet  and  wide 
cuffs  of  Alencon  lace  over 
beige  Ninon,  are  dyed  red 
to    match    the    diaphanous 
chiffon  of  the  skirt.  A  Bruck- 
Weiss  gown  that  effectively 
combines    romanticism    and 
modernism— for  its  moulded 
lines    are    taken    from    the 
Gossard     foundation     gar- 
ments. The  Step-in  of  French  hand-loomed  elastic,  shaped  and  woven  in  France 
to  Gossard's  pattern,  tapers  the  figure  from  waist  to  thigh.  Matching  peach- 
tinted  Skinner's  satin  decorates  — and  re-enforces  the  front  . . .  Model  2228 
The  exquisite   uplift-brassiere  of   net  lined   peach   lace   and   Skinners    satin 
moulds  the  bust  to  a   youthful   line Model  1211 


The  H.  W.  Gossard  Co.,  Da-uwn  of  Assoc, alt  J  Appord  InJustr*,.  Inc..  Chicago,  New  York,  San  Francisco,  Dallas,  Atlanta,  London,  Toronto,  Sydney,  B 


uenos  Aires 


The  &  in\/\ 


arria 


Need  Dishwashing 

make  her  Hands 

UGLY? 

Even  on  her  wedding  day  she  won- 
ders .  "Will  dishwashing  steal  away 
charm  .  .  .  leave  my  smooth  young 
hands  workworn?" 

Recently    nearly    2,000   young 
BRIDES   in    II    large  cities   told   us 

how    they    plan    to    meet    this    vexing 


problem.    95  out  of  ereri/  UH)  agreed! 

"'Yes,  we're  going  to  wash  dishes." 
these  charmingly  vivid  girls  said. 
"  Mnt  we'll  never  have  "dishpan  hands' 
.  .  .  we  needn't,  with  Lux  in  the  house. 

"We've  always  washed  our  fine 
things  in  Lux;  noticed  how  softly 
white  our  hands  looked  afterward. 
We're  trusting  Lux  to  keep  our  hands 
lovely  in  spite  of  dishwashing,  too!" 

Beauty  Experts 

Experts  in  305  famous  beauty  shops 
say:  "Lux  in  the  dishpan  keeps  your 


carec 


hands    as    !>eautifully 

those  of  the  woman  with  maids." 

Yet  this  tender  care  for  your  hands 
costs  so  little!     LESS  than  lc  a  day! 


LUX  FOR  DISHES  ••_^^4  cManA^L  Ul   t/utn.  I <  a  <L 


1 


May,  1931 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots 


By 
James  R.  Quirk 


DURING  a  radio  talk  a  few  days  ago, 
I  made  a  casual  reference  t<>  the 
response  accorded  ;i  story  in  a  recent 

issue  of  Photoplay.  The  story  was  about 
Roscoe  Arbuckle.    It  was  entitled  ".Inst  Let 

Me  Work."  We  have  already  received  two 
thousand  letters  from  men  and  women  who 
want  to  see  Arbueklo  given  a  chance  to  earn 
a  living.  Poor  Fatty,  declared  innocent  by  a 
jury  of  his  peers,  has  suffered  enough. 

But  the  good  clnl>  women  and  organized  professional 
reformers  who  stoned  him  into  oblivion  show  no  signs 
of  putting  into  practice  the  precepts  they  mouth  SO 
glibly  on  Sabbath  morn. 


IT  all  depends  00  where  you  sit! 
While  America  raved  about  Marlene  Dietrich  in 
"Morocco,"    and    Gary    Cooper    and    his    admirers 
moaned  about  his  being  relegated  to  the  roar  for  the 
Dew  star,  a  different  story  is  being  told  abroad. 

My  sleuths  in  Copenhagen,  Denmark,  report  that 
the  delectable  Dietrich  is  mildly  though  respectfully 
received  in  "Morocco,"  but  that  Gary  Cooper  and  his 
work  iii  the  picture  simply  have  the  Danes  winging.  In 
fact,  he  practically  monopolizes  the  interest  in  the  film. 

Read  this,  Gary  old  boy,  and  cheer  up! 


FAREWELL,  Murium.  Well  done.  Your  friends. 
the  art.  and  the  motion  picture  public  of  the  world 
will  miss  you.  A  gallant  soldier  in  war.  an  outstanding 
genius  in  peace,  Germany  should  be  proud  of  you  a>  a 
warrior,  as  an  artist,  and  as  the  noble  gentleman  that 
you  wore. 


SEE    his    last    picture,    "Tabu."    just    released. 
Satiated  with  what  he  felt  was  the  artificiality  of 
Hollywood,  Murnau,  director  of  "The  Last  Laugh," 


left   the  town  flat  over  a  year  ago,  and  with 

Robert  Flaherty,  who  made  "Moana"  and 

"Nanook  of  the    North,"  sailed    away    for 
9  ■  the  South  Seas  in  his  own  sixty-five  fool  sail- 

ing ship.     There  they   made  "Tabu,"  with 
Datives  of  the  remote  idand  of  Mora   Rora  BS 
BCtOrS.     Only  genius  could  overcome  all  the 
difficulties  they  encountered.     It  took  them 
four  months  to  find  Datives  who  could  play 
the  leading  role>. 
Rack  in  Hollywood  they  got  together  with  a   man 
equally  talented  in  his  own  line,  and  Dr.  Hugo  Reisen- 
feld     composed     and     synchronized     the    sound     and 
musical  score  which  added  immeasurably  to  tin-  value 
of  their  picture. 


FREE,  proud  souls,  the  two  men  that  made  this 
picture.  See  "Tabu,"  or  never  again  complain 
about  screen  clap-trap.  And  when  you  see  it.  note  the 
musical  theme  where  the  native  chief  appears 
ominously  at  the  door  of  the  hut  in  which  the  lovers 
are  living.  lie  symbolized  doom,  ami  at  that  point, 
Murnau  suggested  to  Reisenfeld  that  he  use  Schubert  *s 
"  Death  and  the  Maiden." 

"Death,"  said  Murnau,  "can  be  as  beautiful  as  life." 
It  was  not  long  after  his  return  from  the  South  S 
that  Murnau  was  killed  instantly  when  his  automobile 
fell  over  a  cliff  in  one  of  the  most  beautiful  spots  in  all 
California. 


HARRISON  CARROLL.  Hollywood's  prattler, 
tells  the  one  about  the  casting  director  on  his 
deathbed.  He  insisted  on  picking  his  own  pall- 
bearers, and  named  six. 

"But     what     about     So-and-So? "    someone    a^ked. 

"He's  one  of  your  dearest  friends." 

"Yeah,  but  he  won't  do.    He's  too  short,"  said  the 
casting  director,  "not  the  type." 


DIRF.C  T<  >R  \(  >RMAN  TAUBOG  was  giving  in- 
structions to  five-year-old  Robert  Coogan, 
l)rother  of  Jackie,  who  is  playing  in  "Skippy." 

"Hardboiled,  Bobby!  We  want  a  hardboiled  ex- 
pression. If  you  give  us  a  real  hardboiled  look,  I'll 
give  you  a  quarter." 

"Say,  .Mr.  Director,  for  ten  dollars  I  could  look  as 
hardboiled  as  a  gangster,"  .Master  Robert  retorted. 

Paramount  is  making  every  effort  to  sign  Robert  to 
a  contract.  But  Mother  and  Father  Coogan  are 
demurring  about  one  so  young  being  an  actor!  How- 
ever, if  the  proper  price  is  reached,  we  suspect  that  the 
Jackie-of-yesterday  will  have  a  rival  in  Robert-of- 
today. 


FLIES — common,  ordinary  house  flies — cost  studios 
thousands  of  dollars  every  year.     In  two  ways: 

No.  1 — Flies  buzz.  Microphones  pick  up  buzzing. 
So  it  happens  that  in  some  nice,  quiet  love  scene,  a  fly 
carries  on  too  close  to  the  mike.  When  the  thing  is 
developed  and  projected,  it  comes  out:  "  Darl-z-z-z-z- 
love  you  buzzzzz  will  buzzzzz  be  my  buzzzzzzzzz. . . ." 
So  they  have  to  shoot  the  scene  over  and  charge  up  the 
bad  "take"  to  loss. 

Xo.  2 — Flies  get  on  people.  Behold  a  close-up  of  a 
pretty  star,  emoting.  Comes  a  fly  and  lights  on  star's 
nose.  Looks  like  a  horsefly  on  the  screened  close-up. 
Annoys  star.     Costs  money  for  retakes. 

In  vain  efforts  to  avoid  fly-trouble,  studios  go  to 
great  lengths.  They  have  fly-chasers,  who,  armed 
with  swatters  and  squirt  guns,  try  to  keep  flies  off  the 
sets.  But  it's  a  hopeless  task — and  since  the  hot, 
bright  lights  and  the  smell  of  greasepaint  seems  to 
attract  them,  flies  will  continue  to  cost  studios  money. 


CECIL  DE  MILLE  says  the  shortest  dialogue  is 
the  best. 
"'Yes'  and  'Xo,'"  says  De  Mille,  "are  one-word 
lines  of  dramatic  value." 

Especially  "Yes,"  Mr.  De  Mille? 

SLEEP-X-EAT"  is  the  only  actor  on  the  screen 
who  admits  lack  of  ambition!  He's  the  colored 
boy  whom  Gaylord  Lloyd,  brother  of  Harold,  dis- 
covered asleep  on  a  Los  Angeles  curb  and  put  to  work 
in  brother's  "Feet  First." 

When  "Sleep-n-Eat,"  as  everyone  calls  him,  walk-, 
he  crawls;  when  he  sits  down,  he  falls  instantly  asleep. 

He  was  working  on  "The  Virtuous  Husband"  with 
Betty  Compson  and  Elliott  Xugent. 

"Don't  you  ever  get  despondent?"  Xugent  asked  him. 

"Despon-dent.    What's  that?"  he  drawled. 

"Low.    Feeling  so  blue  you'd  like  to  shoot  yourself." 

"Sleep-n-Eat"  shook  his  head.  "Colored  man  never 
gets  like  that.  When  white  man  sits  down  and  thinks 
and  thinks  and  thinks  and  thinks  how  bad  things  is,  he 
just  naturally  gets  up  and  shoots  hisself.  When  col- 
ored man  sits  down  and  thinks  and  thinks  and  thinks 
how  bad  things  is,  he  just  naturally  goes  to  sleep." 

OXE  of  the  greatest  teachers  of  surgery  who  ever 
lived  was  the  late  Dr.  W.  S,  Halstead,  of  Johns 
Hopkins  Medical  School.  During  the  years  that 
he  was  turning  out  capable  young  surgeons  he  con- 
tinually adjured  his  students  to  "handle  healthy 
tissues  carefully." 

Why  wouldn't  this  advice  extend  to  those  writing 
lads  to  whom  they  turn  over  good  healthy  stories  for 
screen  adaptation? 


ACCORDIXG  to  The  Film  Mercury,  a  Hollywood 
linguist  is  a  yes-man  who  can  nod  his  head  to  a 
question  in  any  language. 


THE  late  Milton  Sills  was  considered  one  of  the 
world's  greatest  masters  of  chess.  His  favorite 
lark  was  to  play  the  game  blindfolded,  He  was  never 
beaten. 


THE  wheel  of  fortune  has  spun  round  again,  and  a 
flock  of  silent  stars  are  making  comebacks  in  the 
talkies! 

Take  Greta  Xissen — and  who  wouldn't?  Her  last 
film  job  was  in  the  silent  version  of  "Hell's  Angels," 
which  was  scrapped.  Xow  she's  the  joy  of  the  Fox 
lot.  with  much  expected  of  her  in  "Women  of  All 
Nations,"  with  McLaglen  and  Lowe. 

Mae  Murray  has  been  playing  the  lead  in  "Bachelor 
Apartment"  at  Radio  Pictures.  Director  Lowell 
Sherman  found  she  was  just  the  type.  Laura  LaPlante 
reappeared  in  "Lonely  Wives."  So  did  Patsy  Ruth 
Miller. 

Others  who  have  turned  up  in  the  light  of  the  Kliegs 
in  the  past  few  months  are  Clara  Kimball  Young, 
William  Farnum,  Esther  Ralston,  Mary  Alden, 
Thomas  Meighan,  Bryant  Washburn  and  Monte  Blue. 

There's  a  long,  long  trail  a-winding.  And  it  always 
seems  to  lead  right  back  to  the  studios! 

28       2 


TOPSY-TURVY  racket,  these  movies- 
One  of  the  biggest  musical  comedy  successes  of 
films  was  "Rio  Rita."     The  star  was  Bebe  Daniels, 
who  came  from  silent  films. 

Xow  comes  Irene  Dunne,  star  of  the  musical  comedy 
stage.  She  makes  her  great  hit  in  "Cimarron,"  which 
has  no  more  music  in  it  than  a  lawn  mower  at  seven  a.m. 

TALKIXG  of  titles— First  Xational  has  titled  the 
new  Bebe  Daniels  picture  "Woman  of  the 
World."  And  William  Powell's  most  recent  Para- 
mount film  is  called  "Man  of  the  World." 


WARNING! 
Charles  (ex-Buddy)  Rogers  is  taking  singing 
lessons  from  ex-President  de  la  Huerta  of  Mexico,  who 
has  become  a  voice  maestro  in  Los  Angeles. 
And  they  threw  things  at  poor  Rudy  Vallee! 


Lights/  Camera/ 


Ready.1 


f 


'  I  VHR  lens  catches  perfectly  that  breath- 
■*■  less  moment  on  the  talkie  set  when 
cameras  and  microphones  are  attuned 
and  the  director  is  about  to  demand  ac- 
tion !  William  Powell  and  Olive  Tell  ready 
for  a  scene  for  his  new  "Ladies'  Man." 


29 


The    Girls   Aren't   Speaking!    Read 


^N 


The  battle  is  on!  In  this  corner  — 
Lilvan  Tashman,  who  graduated  from 
the  "Follies"  to  big  film  parts.  Lilvan 
has  made  herself  a  great  social  success 
in  Hollywood  —  wears  the  right 
clothes,  says  the  right  thing.  Then 
Constance  Bennett  entered — wow! 


Connie  & 


By 
Kath eri n e    Albert 


COXSTAXCE  BENNETT  and  Lilvan  Tashman 
don't  speak  to  each  other. 
One  of  the  reasons  is  that  Lilvan  Tashman  has 
been  called  "the  best  dressed  woman  in  Holly- 
wood." And  Constance  Bennett-  has  been  called  "the 
best  dressed  woman  in  Hollywood."  Lilvan  Tashman  is  a 
reigning  beauty.  So  is  Constance  Bennett.  And  the  good 
old  mountains  of  Kentucky  have  nothing  on  a  couple  of 
reigning  beauties  when  it  comes  to  feuds.  Xo  suh, 
stranger! 

The  beauty-of-the-moment  racket  is  one  of  the  best 
organized,  politically  sound  campaigns  in  the  film  center. 
And  don't  let  anybody  tell  you  that,  in  the  sprawly  little 
town  of  Hollywood,  everything  is  all  Goodness  and  Light. 
It  isn't.  There  are  circles  within  circles,  wheels  within 
wheels. 

Now  let  us  see  what  the  requirements  for  these  spectac- 
ular, gorgeous,  magnificent  women  are.  Here  is  what  a 
beauty  should  do.     She  should: 

Appear  not  less  than  three  times  a  week  at  the  Embassy 
Club  for  luncheon. 

Xever  miss  a  Mayfair  party. 

Go  to  every  big  premiere  that's  staged. 

Wear  beautiful,  spectacular  clothes  and  own  a  chinchilla 
or  a  sable-trimmed  ermine  wrap. 

BE  gay,  debonaire  and  collect  a  lot  of  beaux. 
Go  to  all  Hollywood  parties  to  which  she's  invited 
and  manage  to  wangle  invitations  to  those  she's  not. 

Freeze  out  all  other  reigning  beauties. 

Attract  attention. 

Now  for  the  business  of  attracting  attention.  Lilvan 
Tashman  is  an  excellent  example.  She  was.  as  you  know, 
a  Follies  girl,  like  a  good  many  others  who  came  to  Holly- 
wood. She  succeeded  where  others  failed,  hecause  she 
used  her  head  for  something  besides  a  place  to  perch  her 
hat. 

She  definitely  set  out  to  be  smart,  sophisticated  and 
socially  prominent.  She  succeeded  on  all  three  counts. 
Xow  when  she  makes  her  appearance  at  public  functions, 
she  causes  that  little  ripple  of  interest,  that  breathless 
hush  that  is  the  entrance  music  of  a  reigning  beauty. 

Lilvan  goes  to  the  Embassy  Club  the  proper  number 
of  times.  She  has  never  been  seen  there  in  the  same  dress 
twice!  She  entertains  at  her  table  only  the  best  people, 
and  her  group  is  invariably  the  center  of  attraction  partly 
because  they  make  so  much  noise.  Libyan  projects  her 
ego.  She  is  one  of  the  few  in  the  colony  who  own  real 
chinchilla  coats.  She  also  makes  a  fad  of  wearing  nude 
colored  evening  gowns  because  she  says  that  shade  is  by 
far  the  most  exciting,  the  most  spectacular  and  the  most 
interesting  color. 

But  she  does  more  than  this.    She  has  a  knack  of  saying 


SO 


About    the   Current    Battle    Between 


For  the  "Best  Dressed 
Woman  in  Hollywood'' 
C  h  a  m  p  i  o  n  ship!  The 
title    is  now  in   doubt! 


the  clever,  smart  thing  the  thing  that  will  be  said  at  a 
party  one  night  and  repeated  all  over  town  at  every 
tuncheon  the  next  day. 

And  then  Conine  Bennett  slithered  upon  the  scene  of 
■  a.  Connie,  with  her  fine  European  ways,  her  fasci- 
nating background,  her  last-word  clothes,  threw  everybody 
into  a  dither.  Connie  got  talked  about.  Connie  got 
quoted.  And  Lilyan  didn't  like  that.  Lilyan  didn't  like 
that  and  a  lot  of  other  things  that  we  can't  go  into  here. 

ON  1 .  night  at  the  Embassy  Club  (it  was  a  most  formal 
affair)  Lilyan  appeared  with  a  group  of  guests.  Connie 
appeared  with  another  group  of  guests.  When  Connie 
saw  Lilyan,  she  quietly  turned  to  her  friends  and  one  by 
one  they  all  left  the  club.  The  field  of  battle  was  cleared 
for  Lilyan  and  her  group. 

Now,  you  might  expect  such  between  Connie  and  Gloria 
Swanson  on  account  of  the  Marquis  de  la  Ealaise.  But  it 
isn't  so.  Cdoria  and  Connie  don't  exactly  rush  to  each 
other  and  kiss,  but  time  and  again  they've  been  at  the 
same  parties,  at  the  same  theater,  at  the  same  smart 
supper  club,  and  if  you  happened  to  be  one  of  the  four 
people  in  the  United  States  who  hadn't  heard  of  the 
famous  Cdoria -Connie-Hank  triangle,  you  would  suppose 
that  the  girls  bore  no  enmity  for  each  other. 

Of  those  who  have  played  the  reigning  beauty-of-the- 
moment  game,  there  are,  besides  those  already  mentioned, 
Billie  Dove,  Claire  Windsor,  Carole  Lombard  (whose  table 
at  the  Ambassador,  shared  by  William  Powell,  is  one  of 
the  things  the  waiters  point  out  to  tourists),  Estelle  Taylor, 
Olive  Borden,  Joan  Crawford  (before  she  was  married), 
Dolores  Del  Rio,  Jean  Harlow  and  others. 

Florence  Yidor  was  a  great  beauty,  but  she  was  always 
exclusive.  Xorma  Shearer,  too,  invariably  goes  to  open- 
ings and  often  to  the  Mayfair  and  Embassy,  but  she  im- 
presses by  her  dignity  and  excellent  taste.  Ruth  Chatter- 
ton  is  like  her  in  that  respect,  as  was  Corinne  Griffith. 
Although  Corinne  was  the  ringleader  of  a  group  of  girls 
who  decided  they  could  have  a  manless  dinner  at  the 
Cocoanut  Grove  with  success. 

CARMEL  MYERS.  May  McAvoy,  Mrs.  Harold  Lloyd, 
Carmelita  Geraghty,  Colleen  Moore,  Julanne  Johnston, 
\  irginia  Valli  and  others  were  on  the  guest  list.  The  table 
was  decorated  with  small  papier-mache  hens.  When  the 
girls  arrived  at  the  hotel,  there  was  another  table  as  large 
and  imposing  as  theirs.  It  was  identical  except  that  it  was 
decorated  with  roosters.  The  women  had  barely  seated 
themselves  when  all  their         [  please  turn  to  page  141  ] 


I 


fea 


"  ■*& 


■*% 


I 


In  this  corner  —  Constance  Bennett, 
"Colossal  Connie,"  party  of  the  second 
part  in  the  present  hattle  for  the 
"Smartest  Woman  in  Hollvwood"  belt. 
Like  Lilyan,  she  is  the  last  word  in  ex- 
quisite dress  and  bon  mots.  And 
the  girls  are  worthy  adversaries ! 


Swi 


New  Ideas  for 


mmin 

and 


Sunning 


All-white  invades  even  the 
water  this  season.  And, 
when  it's  banded  across  the 
shoulders  in  bright  red,  it 
gets  along  swimmingly  with 
a  slender  beauty  like  Doro- 
thy Jordan 


"To  be  popular, 
cultivate  a  good 
line,"  some  one  ad- 
vised  Marian 
Shockley  of  Univer- 
sal. So  she  did. 
It's  a  diagonal  one, 
formed  by  contrast- 
ing shades  of  blue 
wool-jersey 


For  romping  on  the 
sand,  Anita  Page 
wears  this  cute  cot- 
ton romper  suit. 
White  flowers  are 
sprinkled  on  a  pow- 
der  blue  back- 
ground. The  white 
toweling  coat  is 
lined  with  the  cotton 


32 


Some  of  the 
smartest  beach 
a  n  d    b  a  t  h  i  n-g 

suits  seen  at 
M  a  1  i  b  u    a  n  d 

Santa  Monica 


Note  to  blue-eyrj  blonde* : 
Joan  Marsh's  yellow  jersey 
suit  match  inny  hair, 

and  is  piped  with  blue  to 
match  her  eyes.  That's  a 
knockout  combination  against 
a  background  of  sand  and 
sky  and  water 


June  MacCloy's 
"spectator  swim- 
ming suit"!  White 
jersey  top,  black 
satin  trunks,  cape 
lined  with  satin  and 
appliqu  ed  with 
satin  discs.  The 
wooden  bracelets 
are  the  newest  in 
bathing  jewelry 


Joan  Blondell,  who 
made  her  first  talkie 
hit  as  the  wise- 
cracking younger 
sister  in  "Office 
Wife,"  scores  a 
beach  hit  in  this  up- 
to-the-minute  bo- 
lero-jacketed suit 


tf  1 


S3 


When  Love's  on  the 

Hollywood  see-saw — 

a  great  story  like  this 

happens! 


B 


Charles    J.    McGuirk 


THEY  could  say  what  they  liked  about  Hollywood,  its 
Oriental  lavishness  and  its  tremendous  salaries,  but  the 
place  never  inspired  Don  Halburton — of  Halburton  and 
Halburton,  refined  singing  and  dancing  act — with  any 
awe.  He  felt  that  the  moving  pictures  had  ruined  vaudeville, 
his  profession,  and  he  had  a  consequent  envious  contempt  for 
them  and  for  the  people  who  triumphed  in  them.  As  he  said, 
one  day  in  their  dressing  room,  to  Patricia,  his  wife,  the  other 
half  of  the  act: 

"Don't  talk  to  me  about  Hollywood  and  the  pictures. 
Hollywood  is  the  place  where  all  the  fourflushers  go  when  they 
die  and  are  swept  out  of  show  business. 

"Of  course,  once  in  a  while  a  real  trouper  goes  out  there  for 
a  couple  of  months  and  gets  a  bundle  of  dough  for  prostituting 
his  art.  But  you'll  notice  he  don't  stay.  Soon  as  his  contract 
is  up,  he's  back  playing  Broadway  where  the  audiences  get 
lis  gags  and  give  him  the  hand  he  deserves.  Hollywood! 
Huh!     What's  the  matter.  Babe?     Don't  you  feel  good?" 

Patricia  hastened  to  assure  him  she  felt  fine  and  disclaimed 
any  responsibility  for  her  idle  remark  that  it  would  be  nice  to 


Illustrated    by    R.     F.    James 


work  in  Hollywood  in  the  pictures  for  a  while.  She  just 
happened  to  be  running  through  a  motion  picture  magazine 
and  had  come  across  some  photographs  of  one  of  the  star's 
homes  in  Beverly  Hills. 

She  didn't  tell  him  that  she  was  a  little  tired  of  passing  her 
life  in  hotel  rooms  and  Pullman  berths  in  the  little  time  they 
weren't  working  fourteen  hours  out  of  every  twenty-four  in 
the  vaudeville  houses. 

She  didn't  tell  him  she  missed  the  babies  she  had  never  had 
and  the  home  in  the  suburbs  they  didn't  own.  though  they 
made  enough  money  to  have  put  down  at  least  a  first  payment 
in  the  four  years  they  had  been  married. 

She  didn't  tell  him  that  the  sight  of  any  hut.  hovel,  house  or 
castle  that  looked  inhabited  set  up  a  fierce  home-maker's 
yearning  in  her  which  dried  her  tongue  and  set  her  heart  to 
galloping.  And  she  didn't  tell  him  any  of  these  things  because 
she  was  afraid  and  a  little  ashamed. 

She  knew  she  had  married  Don  under  the  false  pretense 


that  she  was  a  real  trouper.  She 
had  been  able  to  fool  him  for 
Dearly  five  years,  since  they  had 
first  met  in  Altoona  where  he 
was  playing  Number  2  spot  with 
a  male  partner  in  a  dancing  act 
and  she  was  one  of  the  chorus  in  a  tabloid  musical  comedy. 

All  through  their  courtship,  which  lasted  eight  months  and 
was  just  one  vaudeville  bill  after  another,  she  had  led  him  to 
believe  that  the  theater  was  her  greatest  ambition  and  that 
she  would  rather  sing  and  dance  than  eat.  She  had  never 
been  able  to  decide  to  this  day  whether  Don's  proposal  was  a 
romantic  declaration  or  a  business  proportion. 

"Listen,  baby."  He  had  begun  it.  "Maybe  you've  noticed 
that  I'm  a  pretty  good  hoofer."  She  had.  and  she  told  him  so. 
"All  right,  hon.  And  you're  no  cripple  yourself.  And  you 
got  a  sweet  voice.  Now  listen.  My  partner  and  me  is  splitting 
up.  I  can  teach  you  the  routine  for  six-seven  numbers  and 
we'll  pick  up  a  couple  of  swell  songs  for  you  and  we'll  have  an 
act  that  will  wow  them.  Why,  baby,"  and  his  eyes  had  lit 
with  the  vision,  "we'll  be  playing  the  Talace  in  a  year.  Let's 
get  married."     And  so  they  were  married. 

They  did  have  a  good  act.  They  built  it  up  till  it  was  a 
sought-after  addition  to  any  vaudeville  bill.    And  they  played 


There,  in  the  glare  of  the  lights,  Patricia  was  putting 
it  over.  Even  Deane,  the  leading  man,  had  more  fire 
in  his  eyes  than  the  script  asked.  And  Don,  back  of 
the  camera,  thought,  "Yeah,  the  kid's  good.  And  why 
not?    I  taught  her  all  she  knows!" 


the  Talace  several  times,  but 
nut  in  any  headline  spot.  That 
failure  to  make  the  feature  posi- 
tion burned  Don  up.  He  blamed 
favoritism. 

She  didn't  believe  that,  be- 
cause she  could  see  they  weren't  quite  hcadlincrs,  but  she  never 
dared  admit  it.  And  Don  told  her  ten  or  fifteen  times  a  day 
that  all  the  good  things  in  their  act  were  his.  His  rout: 
his  gags,  his  wonderful  dancing,  his  quick  wit  and  his  baritone 
voice  were  the  things  that  sent  it  over.     And  his  looks. 

SHE  raised  casual  eyes  from  the  magazine  and  behind  an 
absent  expression  gloated  over  him.  There  wasn't  a  better 
looking  man  on  either  stage  or  screen  than  Don  Halburt«>n. 
Even  if  he  did  know  it.  How  could  he  help  knowing  it  with 
women  telling  him  every  chance  they  got?  Twenty-five,  tall, 
lithe  and  strong  with  the  catlike  strength  of  the  dancing  man. 
His  hair  was  black,  his  eyes  gray,  his  face  thin  and  dark,  like 
a  Spaniard's.  His  thin-lipped  mouth  was  crooked  and 
castic.     He  looked  like  the  artist  he  insisted  he  was. 

He  was  a  child  of  the  theater,  born,  as  he  expressed  it.  in  a 
suitcase  and  raised  in  the  wings.  And  he  knew  show  business 
backwards.     She  wasn't  the  only  one  who  appreciated   him. 


Talkies?     Easy!     Then    Don    and    Pat    tried    them! 


She  had  her  own  bothers  keeping  the  women  away  from  him. 
Of  course,  he  was  easy  for  them.  What  man  wouldn't  be, 
with  his  chances?    But  other  women  didn't  bother  her — much. 

Patricia  sighed  and  returned  to  the  magazine.  She  was  glad 
their  twenty- weeks  booking  was  nearly  over.  Don  was  worry- 
ing about  a  new  contract  but  she  was  looking  forward  to  a 
rest.  She  wished  they  had  a  home  of  their  own  in  which  to 
take  it,  instead  of  a  theatrical  hotel.  If  they  only  had  a  big 
house  now!  She  gave  herself  up  to  a  sudden  saturnalia  of 
imagination  as  she  saw  herself  furnish- 
ing it.    She'd  have  a  dining  room  suite — 

"Come  on,  babe.     It's  near  time  to 
go  on.     Better  slip  into  the  costume. " 


you 


ftt 


Mrs.  Aphrodite. 


AS  she  stepped  out  of  her  dress  she 
looked  like  a  dryad.  She  was  twenty- 
three  and  looked  seventeen.  Her  small, 
round  head  was  heavy  with  ash-blonde 
hair.  Her  blue  eyes  danced  and  invited 
under  her  low  broad  forehead.  Her 
delicate  mouth  was  laughing. 

Her  graceful  body  was  warm  Carrara 
marble,  slender  with  a  rounded  slender- 
ness.  Her  shapely  legs  tapered  to  slim 
ankles  and  narrow,  strong  dancing  feet. 

Looking  at  her,  one  thought  desirous- 
ly of  moonlight  and  shadowy  forest  on 
the  shores  of  a  whispering  sea — with 
her.     And  that  was  Patricia's  trouble. 

She  was  a  frustrated  housewife  in  the 
body  of  a  dancing  girl.     Venus  married 

"That's  a  neat  outfit,"  Don  told  her,  as  she  slipped  into  her 
long  tulle  dress.  "As  snappy  as  I  thought  it  would  be  when 
I  picked  it  out.  Brings  out  your  lines.  Women  are  wising 
up  to  the  fact  that  the  less  men  see  of  'em  the  better  they  like 
'em.  Let's  go.  And  don't  let  down  tonight.  We  need  new 
booking  and  you  never  can  tell  who  will  be  sitting  out  front. 
Maybe,"  he  sneered,  "a  movie  magnate." 

"All  right,"  smiled  Patricia.  "If  he  is,  we'll  pull  him  out 
of  his  seat. " 

There  was  a  movie  magnate  in  the  house  that  night — Abe 
Wagner,  president,  founder  and  brains  of  Monarch  Films,  in 
New  York  for  a  merger  which  he  had  just  successfully  com- 
pleted. 

He  sat  in  an  aisle  seat,  a  fat,  bald-headed  little  man  with 
shrewd  monkey  eyes  and  a  thick-lipped  mouth,  concealing  his 
incurable  zest  in  the  gaudy  tinsel  of  the  stage  under  a  mask  of 
boredom.  He  was  mildly  amused  as  the  bill  played  itself  be- 
fore him,  but  untouched.  Until  Halburton  and  Halburton 
appeared  and  went  into  their  act.  Then,  with  a  soft  grunt, 
he  sat  forward  in  his  seat. 


A  visiting  fireman  in  Holly- 
wood found  a  Broadway  pal  sun- 
ning himself  on  the  Boulevard. 

"Looking  prosperous,"  he  said. 
"Don't  you  have  to  work  in  the 
studios  any  more?" 

"Nope,"  said  the  loafing  friend, 
shifting  his  toothpick.  "The  boss 
caught  me." 

"How    do   you   mean,   caught 


"Looking  over  the  transom!" 
came  back  the  owner  of  The  True 
Secret  of  How  to  Succeed  in  the 
Talkies. 


Abe  Wagner  was  captivated  by  Patricia's  slender  beauty  and 
grace.  His  eyes  lit  with  joy  at  her  smooth,  sensuous  move- 
ments. His  ear  was  soothed  by  her  sweet,  husky  voice  when 
it  was  raised  in  a  song.  He  recognized  her  partner  hah 
irritably  as  her  necessary  foil.  When  they  finished,  his  hearty 
hand-clap  clattered  above  the  generous  applause.  He  was 
six  million  male  movie  fans  rolled  into  one,  and  the  six  million 
had  just  made  another  discovery. 

"That's  a  swell  kid,"  he  told  Davey  Cohen,  his  secretary, 
who  sat  beside  him.  "She's  got  every- 
thing. Young.  Refined.  Beautifui. 
Get  her  for  me." 

"Okay,  boss,"  said  Davey  Cohen  who 
would  have  said  "Okay,  boss,"  in  that 
same  tone  if  Abe  had  told  him  to  ar- 
range for  a  location  on  the  moon.  "It 
looks  like  I'll  have  to  get  the  whole  act. 
These  vaudeville  teams  won't  break  up, 
generally." 

"All  right,"  Abe  snarled.  "Get  the 
act  if  you  have  to.  But  try  and  get  her 
alone.  That  partner  is  a  ham.  He'll  be 
stickin'  his  nose  in  out  in  Hollywood 
and  gummin'  up  the  works.  By  herself 
she'd  be  easy  to  direct." 

"Okay,  boss,"  said  Davey  Cohen. 


THIS  here  now  Halburton  and  Hal- 
burton   act    playing    the   Eighty 
fourth   Street  this   week,"  said  Dave 
Cohen  next  morning  to  Sam  Lessor,  booking  agent  with  whom 
he  had  started  in  show  business,  "who's  booking  them?" 

"I  am,"  said  Sam.    "Why?" 

"Well,  the  old  man  and  me  caught  the  act  last  night  and 
he  likes  the  girl.     How  long  does  their  booking  run?" 

"It's  up  next  week.  " 

"Good,"  said  Davey.  "What's  the  chance  of  breaking  up 
the  act?    The  old  man  can't  use  the  partner." 

"There's  no  chance  and  the  old  man  will  have  to  use  him. 
If  you  break  up  that  act,  you're  a  wonder.  It's  been  tried  by 
nearly  everybody  in  vaudeville  from  here  to  Chicago.  They're 
married. " 

"Oh,  well,"  said  Davey  Cohen,  "there's  no  swell  party 
without  a  big  head  the  morning  after.     Who's  their  agent?" 

But  it  was  Don,  himself,  who  dictated  the  terms  by  which 
they  descended  (his  own  word)  into  the  movies  in  Abe  Wagner's 
office.  He  was  the  originator,  producer  and  manager  of  a 
vaudeville  act  so  good  that  the  movies  were  crying  for  it. 
So  he  did  all  the  talking. 

Patricia  sat,  adorable  and  childlike,  in  an  over-stuffed  chair 
three  times  too  big  for  her.  Abe  [  please  turn  to  page  128] 


$5,000 ,-. 

Cash   Prizes 


ANOTHER    month    and    the    fun 
will  be  on! 
And  it's  fun  that  pays  dividends 
in  cash! 

In  the  June  issue  Photoplay's  an- 
nual Cut  Puzzle  Contest  gets  away  to  a 
living  start. 

It  lasts  four  months,  and  when  the 
final  returns  are  in,  our  readers  are  going 
to  be  S5,000  richer. 

36 


The  sort  of  composite  picture 
you'll  enjoy  unscrambling 
when  Photoplay's  annual 
Cut  Puzzle  Contest  starts 
next  month.  Just  match  hair, 
eyes  and  mouth — and  presto ! 


Another   Famous 
Photoplay  Contest 


OUR  prizes,  in  past  years,  have  sent 
boys  and  girls  to  school,  have  fi- 
nanced long  and  happy  holidays,  have 
helped  buy  homes.  What  they've  done 
before,  they  can  do  for  you  in  1931. 

Unscrambling  our  mixed-up  pictures 
of  film  favorites  is  just  hard  enough  to 
make  it  fascinating  and  just  easy  enough 
to  allow  every  member  of  the  family — 
including  Junior  and  Mary  Jane — to 
take  part. 

There'll  be  seventy  cash  prizes.  Start 
reaching  for  the  June  issue,  out  May  15. 
Fun  and  profits — some  combination! 


The  Perils  of  Marlene 


They  arc  in 
danger  of  being 

oversold  by  a 
zealous  director 


Wll  \l's    to    be   done 
about    Marlene  Diet- 
rich's ! 
You  may  reply,  "I 
thought  they  were  all  right 

"Just  look,  and  like  it!"    But  that 

is  flippantly  begging  a  very  se- 
rious question  that  confronts  the 
motion  picture  world  today. 

With  "Dishonored"  her  third 
picture — snapping  on  the  screens 
Marlene  is  now  definitely  set  as  a 
hot  box-office  pet  and  star  of  the 
tirst     magnitude.  The     same 

picture  poses  the  problem  that  we 
must  face  if  we  are  men  and  not 
mice. 

You  may  and  will  say  that 
America  was  made  Marlene-con- 
■dousand  Dietrich-hungry  by  her 
beauty,  her  talent,  her  colossal 
pros  agenting.  1  say  that  her 
tremendous  overnight  popularity 
and  appeal  was  not  fatally  hurt  by 
the  pictures  of  her  that  were 
spread  across  the  United  States — 
pictures  showing  her  wearing  a 
feather  boa.  a  yard  oi  velvet  and  a 
slow,  cool  smile. 

THOSE  lovely  legs  bellowed 
from  billboards,  they  leaped  at 
the  beholder  from  newspapers  and 
magazines.  They  spoke  more 
eloquently  than  the  rantings  of 
seven  hundred  foaming  press- 
agents. 

The  Twin  Perils  of  Marlene 
began,  with  "Morocco,"  as  a  lure 
and  a  delight.  They  smote  us  in 
"The  Blue  Angel" — in  which  all 
her  costumes  together  would  not 
furnish  decent  raiment  for  four 
orphaned  midgets. 

But  in  "Dishonored,"  owing  to 
the  mistaken  generosity  and  zeal 
of  the  talented  Herr  Direktor, 
Josef  Yon  Sternberg,  they  con- 
stitute an  overdose  of  sex  appeal, 
a  plethora  of  beauty  and  a  definite 
menace  to  the  future  sound  and 
solid  career  of  the  Belle  of  Berlin. 

Let  me  remind  you. 

The  picture  opens  with  a  close- 
up  of  two  silk-clad  legs.  No  more 
was   necessary.      The   crowd   of 


By 

Leonard 

Hall 


Well,  here  they  are — glamorous,  appeal- 
ing, dominating  every  scene  in  which  they 
appear,  no  matter  how  thrilling  the 
action.  There  is  really  no  need  to  tell 
you  whose  they  are! 


devotees  in  the  theater  sighed 
aloud  —"It's  Dietrich!"  Those  in- 
effable, unmatchable  understand- 
twinklin'  in  the  rain!  We'd 
have  known  them  in  the  dead  of 
an  African  night! 

THE  length  and  breadth  of  the 
picture  was  dominated,  ruled 
and  obsessed  by  the  superb  stems 
of  Marlene  Dietrich  I  When  she 
and  victor  Mi  l.aglen,  rival  spies, 
faced  each  other  and  life  and  death 

i  re  in  the  balance — the 
strayed  from  the  pistol-point  to 
the  legs  of  Marlene,  carelessly  re- 
vealed with  such  exquisite  care  by 
a  director  who  knows  his  selling 
points. 

They  were  displayed  from  end 
to  end  in  "Dishonored,"  for  any 
reason  or  none  save  their  own 
virtues.  They  dominated  every 
dramatic  scene  in  which  they 
appeared,  and  they  appeared  in 
them  all.  They  were,  in  fact,  the 
stars  of  the  piece — and  the  rest  of 
Marlene  and  all  of  the  huge,  hairy 
McLaglen  were  forced  to  divide 
what  slim  honors  remained — with 
a  bow  to  Von  Sternberg. 

For  a  time  I  didn't  know 
whether  I  was  looking  at  a  spy 
drama  or  a  hosiery  show. 

And  who  can  forget  the  pic- 
ture*send? 

i  rich,  nonchalant  as  only  a 
lady  spy  can  be  when  she  knows 
the  rifles  are  loaded  with  blanks, 
faces  the  firing  squad.  The  fatal 
drum  starts  the  long  roll.  The 
troops  draw  a  bead  on  that  fair, 
alabaster  brow. 

THEN",  as  the  word  of  command 
trembles  on  the  officer's  lips. 
Marlene  reaches  down,  hikes  her 
skirt  up  to  here,  and  adjusts  one 
silken  stocking!  The  soldiers 
shudder,  but  they  know  their 
duty!  In  fact,  they,  and  not  the 
victim,  should  be  blindfolded! 

Blooie!  A  ragged  volley  rings 
out,  and  Marlene  is  gathered  to 
her  fathers.    Thank  God  she  died 

[  PLEASE  TL-RN  TO  PAGE   104  ] 


GARBO,  done  according  to  the  ancient  Greek  prin- 
ciples of  "dynamic  symmetry,"  by  the  sculptor, 
Julian  Bowes.  "Garbo's  proportions  are  identical  with 
the  famous  statue  of  Athena  by  Phidias,"  says  Mr. 
Bowes.  "The  ratio  is  1  to  1.4472,  or  a  square  plus  a 
root  five  triangle."    Oh,  so  that's  what  Garbo's  got,  eh? 


38 


Y[c  Has  Two  Bosses 


An 

o  f  a 
knigl 


GEORGl     tRLISS 
dodges  dinner  invita- 
whenever 
Bible.      I  'innris  out   so 

frequently  embarrass  liim,  be- 
cause  he  doesn't  eat  meat  And 
it's  such  a  fuss  refusing  meat 
courses    and  explaining  why. 

It  all  dates  back,  the  storj  i> 
told,  a  ilcc. nli-  <t  more.  George 
Arli--.  and  his  wife  were  making 
a  trans-continenta]  American 
trip.    It   was  a   year  of  .urrat 

drought  In  the  cattle  country,  the  train  passed  through  miles 
of  range  and  cattle  were  dying  likcflies.  Thirst-tortured  kine 
were  leaning  against  range  fen  weak  to  stand.    It  was 

a  pitiful  thin^  to  sci'. 

I  he  Irlisses  were,  even  then,  noted  for  their  humane  activi- 
ties. The  sight  of  the  tortured  steers  was  too  much  for  Mrs. 
Arliss  "If  dumb  beasts  can  be  tortured  like  that."  she  said, 
"in  order  to  provide  food  for  us  humans,  then  I  for  one  will 
never  eat  meat  again!"    And  she  went  vegetarian. 

Hut  Arliss  liked  meat.    Arliss  kept  on  eating  meat,  even  after 
his  wife  had  quit.     Hut  not  for  long.     Every  time  he  put  a  bit 
of  meat   into   his  mouth,   his  own  conscience  and  his  wife's 
accusing  eye  made  it  so  untasty 
for  him  that  by  and  by  he.  too, 
swore  off  meat.     And  he's  never 
eaten  meat  since  that  day. 

"I  never."  he  explains  it  now, 
"eat  anything  I  can  pat." 

He  eats  fish,  though.  You 
can't  pat  a  fish.  That  is,  with- 
out  a    struggle. 

HE  has  other  aversions,  too, 
besides  meat.  Just  as  strong, 
for  instance,  is  his  objection  to 
being  thought  old.  He's  sixty- 
three  this  year.  For  more  than 
forty  of  those  sixty-three  years, 
he's  been  an  actor.  Yet  it  galis 
Arliss  like  nobody's  business  to 
be  called  a  "veteran  of  the 
:"!  He  burns  when  he's 
classed  with  old-timers — like 
Otis  Skinner,  for  example.  He- 
wants  to  be  thought  a  contem- 
porary, and  not  "old-school." 

Yet  he  has  some  decidely  old- 
school  notions.  His  dislike  of 
off-stage  limelight,  for  instance. 
Other  actors  of  today  mav  crave 


intimate    portrait 

m  a  n    w  li  o    desire  s 

hthood,  tea  and  privacy 

By    Harry   Lang 


JL 

V 


> 


public  it  v,  but  not  Arli        He 
shun 

"At     the    end    of    ( ;o  !i    p<  r- 

formani <•,"  In-  it 
hould  ! 

ton   wool  and   camphor  until 
the  next  curtain  r 

He  practices  what  he 
pre.u  hes,  too.  He  makes  no 
grand  entry  v.  hen  arriving  in 
Hollywood,  like  many  stars  do. 
tead,  he  and  hi^  man  Jmner 
- — more  about  Jenner  later! — 
have  worked  out  a  newshound-dodging  system.  When  Arliss' 
train  pulls  into  the  depot,  Jenner  is  first  off.  With  him  comes 
an  avalanche  of  luggage,  wraps,  traveling  blankets  and  such. 
And  behind  tin's  s<  rccn  of  a<  tivil  .  .  a  little  fellow  quietly  sneaks 
to  the  ground  and  hustles,  virtually  unseen,  away.  J  hat's 
Arliss. 

EVEN  after  Arliss  has  made  his  getaway,  Jenner  kei-ps  on 
doing  his  stuff.  Baggage  arranged,  he  stands  for  minutes, 
peering  e.xpectedly  at  the  coach  exit,  as  though  Arli--  rnu>t 
appear  any  minute.  And  by  the  time  would-be  interviewers, 
greeters,  el  al  have  discovered  the  ruse,  Arliss  is  merrily  on  his 

way  to  his  hotel! 

This  man  Jenner — his  real 
name  i-  George,  but  he's  always 
called  Jenifer-  has  been  with 
Arliss  for  a  quarter  of  a  century. 
ikes  care  of  Arliss  militant- 
ly.  He's  a  big,  bluff,  stolid 
Briton,  and  service  and  devo- 
tion to  his  marster  are  every  thing 
to  him.  He's  jealous  of  any 
other  person  who  performs  any 
service  for  Arli.-s  even  of  Mrs. 
Arliss.  and  he  makes  no  secret 
of  it.  Jenner  and  Mrs.  Arliss 
are  almost  always  at  odds  over 
Arliss.  One  day  a  message  was 
delivered  to  Mrs.  Arliss  on 
the  set.    Jenner  was  asked: 

"Will    vou    please    tell    Mrs. 
Arliss  that  ..." 

"Tell  'er  yourself."  snapped 
Jenner.  "sheand  I  ain't  speakin'!-' 
It's  said  that  between  the 
assiduous  ministrations  of  his 
wife  and  his  Jenner,  Arliss 
hardly  ever  has  his  own  way  in 
anything.  But  that's  all  v.  i 
[  PLEASE  Tl'RN  7  i4  ] 


The  gentleman  from  Bloomsbury, 
George  Arliss,  star  of  stage  and  screen. 
At  the  left,  Jenner,  his  valet,  who  is  one 
of  his  bosses.  At  the  right,  the  other — 
Mrs.  Arliss,  who  has  been  his  devoted 
helpmate  for  over  thirty  years 


•    ' 


Jhose 
Awful 


/ 


Sometimes  press-agents 
make  mistakes.  They  did 
when  they  booted  reporters 
off  the  Clara  Bow  premises. 

It  aroused  more  curiosity ! 


THERE'S  no  use  in  keeping  it  a  secret  any  longer.  A 
war  has  been  going  on  for  some  time  between  the 
Fourth  Estate  and  the  Fourth  Industry  —  and  the 
movies  have  suffered  from  it.  In  fact,  the  movie 
stars  have  been  the  only  casualties  to  date. 

The  movie  moguls  claim  the  newspapers  "play  up"  every 
act  of  the  stars,  that  they  may  sell  more  papers.  Newspaper- 
men retort  that  newspapers  are  made  to  be  sold,  and  that 
if  moving  picture  people  behaved  themselves  they  wouldn't 
get  into  bigger  and  blacker  headlines. 

Next  to  your  relations  and  your  neighbors,  the  movie  stars 
are  the  people  you  know  best.  You  know  Clara  Bow's  dimples, 
her  eyebrows,  the  way  she  wrinkles  her  nose  when  she  laughs, 
the  color  of  her  hair,  the  calibre  of  her  frown,  the  quality  of 
her  voice,  and  the  gestures  of  her  pudgy  hands.  Were  you 
interested  in  her  suit  against  Daisy  De  Voe? 

Wore  you  not? 

At  least,  newspaper  editors  thought  you  were,  hence  the 
wash  on  the  line,  the  stories  of  her  boy  friends,  her  clothes, 
her  check  book,  her  smiles  and  sniffles,  and  the  fact  that  Clara, 
like  Dorothy  in  "Gentlemen  Prefer  Blondes,"  was  the  sort  of 
girl  who  gave  men  presents. 

Clara  was  in  hot  water.  It  was  found  out  at  the  trial  that 
Clara  was  gently  lit  on  occasion,  played  poker,  and  wasn't 
above  threatening  if  she  felt  a  bit  peevish. 

ANOTHER  movie  scandal!  Old  Man  Adverse  Publicity 
had  reared  his  ugly  head  once  more  and  this  time  it  would 
be  fatal  for  Clara. 

Her  producers  wisely  played  close  to  the  chest.  They 
weren't  going  to  show  their  hand  until  they  found  out  how 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Public  felt  towards  Clara. 

A  Broadway  actress,  Sylvia  Sidney,  was  given  a  role  sched- 
uled for  Clara.  Women's  clubs  in  the  North,  South,  East  and 
West  met  for  the  purpose  of  weighing  the  case  against  Miss 
How. 

Poor  Clara!     Poor  little  butterfly  kicked  into  the  gutter  by 

40 


Reporters. 


the  nasty  scandal  sheets!  Heart-breaking!  But 
if  you  have  tears  to  shed  wait  a  while  —  a  long, 
long  while. 

What  has  actually  happened  since  the  Clara 
Bow-Daisy  De  Voe  trial? 

Clara  Bow  is  making  "Kick  In"  for  her  old 
employers.  Fans  all  over  the  country  rushed  to  Clara's  aid. 
They  wrote  letters  begging  that  she  be  given  another  chance. 
Clara's  popularity  in  a  movie  contest  run  by  the  New  York 
Daily  News  was  not  hurt  one  iota  by  the  trial. 

The  public  will  forgive  seven  times  seven  when  a  movie  idol 
totters  on  her  pedestal. 

But  the  moving  picture  mighty  have  not  yet  learned  this. 
With  the  first  chill  wind  of  adverse  publicity  they  run  to  cover, 
and  blame  everything  on  the  scandal  sheets. 

"Unfair,"  they  cry.     "Why  don't  you  print  as  much  about 

Elsie  Glitz  who  was 
arrested  yester- 
day?" 

Elsie  isn't  a  movie 
idol.  It  is  perfectly 
true  that  any  editor 
would   give  Clara 


Hollywood    in    its    Golden    Age   of    Publicity   Bunk 
In  those  dear,  dead  days,  little  Hazel  Happy  model 
in  clay,  or  made  doilies.    We  loved  it! 


kB 


^H 


as 


War  between    the    Fourth   Estate 

and  Fourth  Industry!     Newspapers 

and  studios  battle  over  Hollywood's 

soiled  linen! 


B 


Mi Id  re  (I    Spain 


illustrated  /' v  Van  Arsdalc 


Rues  -and  what  lines'    in  preference  t"  some  ob- 
scurc  girl  whose  private  life  would  make  Clara's 

look  like  tin-  story  of  Elsie  Dinsmore  in  Hollywood. 

Provided     that  is     that    Elsie  did   no  more  than 
Clara  did  in  having  Daisy  De  Voe  arrested.     Yet 

suppose  that    Elsie  were  the  heroine      so  called — of 

the  latest  murder  mystery.     Clara's  publicity  in 

that    instance   would    he   as   nothing  compared    to 
Elsie's. 

There  was  a  story  not  long  ago  which  said  Al 
Capone  was  visiting  Clara.  Poor  Clara  again.  It 
turned  out  to  be  a  lot  of  talk,  hut  the  papers  carried 
the  yarn  just  the  same.  Press-agents  had  kept 
Reporters  from  seeing  Clara  and  checking  up  on  the 
truth  of  the  rumor.  If  these  men — who  are  also 
known   as   suppress-agents — had   allowed    the   re- 


One  story  the  newspapers  never  printed,  and  rightly. 

Once  upon  a  time  Doug  Fairbanks  fired  a  leading 

lady— because  she  had  square  hips 


Sob  writers  and  stars  always  squabble  about  beauty. 

"Beautiful,    but    so    dumb!"    scribbles    the    sobbie 

"What  a  frump!"  says  the  pretty  starlet 


porters  to  talk  to  the  film  lady,  everything  would  have  been 
cleared  up. 

And  here  we  come  to  the  core  of  the  trouble.  It's  a  long 
story,  but  I'm  going  to  tell  it  anyway. 

IGNORANCE  of  the  functioning  of  newspapers  is  directly 
responsible  for  the  Clara  Bow-Daisy  De  Voe  trial,  and  many 
others. 

Daisy   didn't   know   she   couldn't    sell    Clara's   letters   and 

telegrams  to  the  newspapers.     Clara  didn't  know  it, 

either.     Officials  of  the  movie  companies  do  not  seem 

to  understand  that  unless  a  ticklish  situation,  such  as 

this  was,  becomes  public  property  through  court  action, 

the  papers  are  helpless — they  cannot  print  one  line. 

A  movie  star  is  the  sole  owner  of  her  private  letters, 

believe  it   or   not.      The   law   protects   private   letters.      The 

private  letters  of  a  former  president,  now  dead,  were  found 

to  be  the  property  of  his  heirs — and  those  to  whom  they  had 

been  written — and  who  still  possessed  them — could  not  legally 

publish  them. 

Daisy  De  Voe,  one  of  the  many  who  trail  after  movie  stars 
with  fame  and  money,  was  put  on  trial  in  the  Los  Angeles 
courts,  charged  with  the  larceny  of  some  $16,000.  She  had 
been  hired  by  Clara  to  be  a  secretary.  She  made  herself  also 
a  duenna,  a  detective  and  a  grafter. 

But  was  it  Daisy  who  was  tried,  or  was  it  Clara? 
Well,  anyhow,  her  employers  didn't  go  back  on  Clara,  not 
after  they  found  out  that  nothing  can  blast  Clara's  reputation 
with  her  public.    Daisy  is  in  jail     [  please  turn"  to  page  138  ] 

hi 


Many  call  her  the  prettiest  girl  in 
Hollywood.  But  tough  breaks  dog 
Mary  Nolan's  footsteps.  Now  in 
vaudeville,  she  still  hopes  ardently 
for  a  picture  career 


RUTH  CHATTERTOX,  visiting  the  Long 
Island  Studio,  came  upon  Tallulah  Bank- 
head  at  work,  cameras  grinding. 

''Stop!''  shrieked  Tallulah.  And  the  grind- 
ing ceased.  She  was  introduced  to  Miss  Chat- 
terton.  A  few  pleasantries  were  exchanged  and 
then  Tallulah  said  in  her  sweetest  voice, 
'Would  you  mind  leaving  the  set  while  I  do 
this  scene?  " 

"Xot  at  all,"  smiled  Miss  Chatterton, 
pleasantly.    "I'll  be  going." 

''  We're  living  at  the  same  hotel,"  from  Miss 
Bankhead,  calling  after  her. 

"  Yes," — from  Ruth.  "  See  you  in  the  lobby 
some  time." 

WE  have  been  wondering  why  little  Mary 
Philbin  dropped  so  completely  out  of 
pictures.  We  knew  there  have  been  several 
nooks  where  she  fitted.  Xow  we  learn  it  is  her 
health. 

She  may  have  to  follow  Lila  Lee  and  Renee 
Adoree  to  an  Arizona  sanitarium.  Poor  little 
girls  whose  bodies  are  not  as  strong  as  their 
ambitions. 

SEEX  at  the  recent  Mayfair  dance.  Carole 
Lombard  planting  a  soft  kiss  on  the  lower 
cheek  of  William  Powell,  during  the  last  dance 
of  the  evening.  Vet,  only  an  hour  before,  they 
had  been  trying  to  hide  from  having  their  pic- 
tures taken  together. 
A  bit  inconsistent. 

OX  again?    Off  again?    It's  hard  to  tell,  but 
it  seems  to  be  on  again  with  Joan  Bennett 
and  John  Considine.  Anyway,  Joan  is  wearing 


CAL\bRK 


(TrW 


International 


Meet  the  new  Mrs.  MacLean!    Douglas,  former  star  comedian  and 
now  an  associate  producer  for  Radio  Pictures,  steps  in  to  get  a 
license  to  marry  this  pretty  lady — Lorraine  Eddy,  an  actress  of 
stage  and  screen.     Doesn't  Doug  look  happy? 


an  enormous  emerald  on  her  engagement  finger 
— a  recent  acquisition.  She  has  just  signed  a 
five-year  contract  with  Fox  and  moved  into  a 
brand  new  house  in  Beverly  Hills. 

THEY  were  filming  a  Western 
thriller,  and  the  director  was 
giving  his  all.  Turning  away  from 
the  brink  of  a  tall  cliff,  he  noticed  a 
straw  dummy  lying  beside  him. 

"Good    heavens,"    he    screamed, 
"who  was  it  we  threw  over  the  cliff?" 

pERSISTEXT  rumors  have  it  that  Estelle 
*-  Taylor  is  on  her  way  to  Paris,  and  when 
movie  folks  go  to  Paris  they're  not  supposed  to 
go  to  visit  the  Louvre. 

/""'OLLEEN  MOORE  may  be  married  to  Al 
'"'Scott  by  the  time  this  magazine  appears  on 
the  newsstands. 


WEDDIXG  bells  for  Dorothy  Sills,  nine- 
teen-vear-old  daughter  of  the  late  Milton 
Sills.  On  March  19th  in  Xew  York  City,  Miss 
Sills  became  Mrs.  Robert  Swayze  Way. 

HERE'S  irony.  Carman  Barnes'  play 
•Schoolgirl."  which  got  her  a  Paramount 
contract  and  what  looks  like  a  bright  future — 
was  the  cause  of  her  being  expelled  from  one  of 
Xew  York's  most  exclusive  girls'  schools. 

IREXE  RICH'S  daughter.  Frances,  graduates 
from  Smith  College  in  June.    She  will  come     I 
immediately  to  Hollywood  to  enter  pictures. 

And  since  she  has  already  hired  a  press- 
agent,  we  take  it  she  means  business. 

MARIOX  DAMES  was  entertaining.    The    j 
Marquis  de   la   Falaise  arrived   and   she 
escorted  him  among  her  guests  to  make  intro-    i 
ductions. 


■■ 


The  Monthly   Broadcast 

of 

Hollywood 
Goings-On  . 


The  famous  composer  of  "Rhapsody  in  Blue"  takes  off  his  coat  and 

concocts  some  music  for  the  talkies.    George  Gershwin  at  his  piano 

on  the  Fox  lot.    Beside  him  is  his  brother  Ira,  who  writes  lyrics. 

On  the  piano,  Guy  Bolton,  librettist 


They  approached  Gloria  Swanson.    Gloria's 
eyes  twinkled;  she  extended  her  hand. 

"I  suppose  you  remember  meeting  me?" 

"With    much    pleasure!"    was    the    quick, 
gallant  answer. 

well  does  he  remember  that,  when  we 
dropped  in  on  Gloria's  set  the  other  afternoon. 
we  found  the  Marquis  among  those  who  were 
paying  their  respects  to  the  star! 

N  \  Constance  Bennett  was  not  among  the 
number. 

Perhaps  she  was  working. 

A  GUSHING  lady  visitor  was  being 
taken    through    the    Paramount 
Studios. 

She  was  introduced  to  Buddy 
Rogers  and  she  gushed,  "Oh,  Mr. 
Rogers,  I'm  so  glad  to  meet  you. 
Tell  me — how  is  your  nice,  funny 
father,  Will?" 


"VT.S,  Clara  Row  has  started  her  new  picture. 
*  And  now  all  the  wiseacres  who  said,  "She'll 
never  make  another."  are  busy  saying  they 
meant,  "after  she  finishes  this  picture." 

Oh,  hum.  it's  wise  to  he  dumb  in  this  city. 
The  new  one  is  Willard  Mack's  famous  melo- 
drama. "Kick  In."  Regis  Toomey's  the  lead- 
ing man. 

WILL  ROGERS  has  been  suffer- 
ing from  a  badly  swollen  wrist. 
•  Everybody  swears  it  was  from  a 
polo  injury,  and  not  from  reaching 
for  a  check  at  the  Embassy  Club. 

T  OVE  and  So  Forth— 

-*-*  Six  months  of  matrimony  and  Dixie  Lee 
separates  from  her  megaphone-crooning  hubby, 
Bing  Crosby  ...  he  was  a  good  harmonizer 
in  a  dance  band,  but  not  so  good  as  such  at 
home.  .  .  .  Tim  McCi  y.  Western  film  star, 


f 


You'll  enjoy  looking  at  Charlie 
Chaplin's  favorite  partner  at  Lon- 
don parties.  Sari  Maritza,  a  young 
actress  who  may  come  to  Holly- 
wood to  make  some  talkies 


and  his  wife  separate  .  .  .  she  says  she  won't 
file  suit  for  divorce,  but  can't  go  on  living  with 
Mi  Coy  because  he's  "gone  Hollywood.  .  .  . 
Lina  Basquctte  rejoins  her  interlocutorily- 
divorced  hubby.  I'ev  .Marley.  ...  "It  won't 
be  necessary  for  us  to  remarry,"  he  gloats, 
"because  our  divorce  won't  be  final  until  next 
September  .   .   ." 

Hollywood  tonguc-waggings  whisper  that  all 
is  not  well  between  Frank  Fay  and  his  wine, 
Barbara  Stanwyck  .  .  .  and  Frank  and  Bar- 
bara both  insist  it's  just  another  Hollywood 
rumor  and  she's  still  cooking  the  Fay  hot 
cakes.  .  .  .  Frances  Marion  and  George  Hill 
enjoying  post-divon a  at  Hollj-wo*  d 

restaurants.  .  .  .  Hans  Kraly  and  Mrs.  Frrst 
Lubitsch  still  devotedly  going  places  together 
.  .  .  remember  the  big  battle? 

DOUGLAS  M  \<  LFAX.  who  used  to  be  film 
funster  and  is  now  associate  producer  at 
Radio,  ups  and  marries  Lorraine  Fddy. 
actress  ...  his  former  wife  Rcnoed  him  last 
fall.  .  .  .  Colleen  Moore  going  places  with  one 
Al  Scott,  but  admits  and  denies  nothing  at  all. 
.  .  .  Mrs.  Joseph  Schildkraut  gets  court  judg- 
ment for  $8,570  back  alimony  which  she 
ex-hubby  didn't  pay  her.  .  .  . 

Howard  Brown,  movie  producer,  marries 
actress  Elizabeth  Rose  Caldwell.  .  .  .  Virginia 
Yalli,  off  a  honeymooning  with  brand  new 
hubby  Charles  Farrcll.  tells  ship-news  reporters 
that  henceforth  she  wants  to  be  known  a- 
Charles  Farrell. 

Kenneth  MacKenna  and  the  Mr-  .  >:.'■  Kay 
Francis,  still  honeymooning.   .  .   .  Mary 
Minter  and  Tenor  Joseph  Diskay  seen  places 


Tune    in,    folks,    on    Cal    York' 


Beaver!  Recognize  the  distin- 
guished looking  gent  behind  the 
hedge?  Yep,  it's  our  handsome 
friend,  Fredric  March.  He  sun- 
burned his  face  so  badly  in  Ber- 
muda he  couldn't  shave  for  days 


together.  .  .  .  Hollywood  hears  that  the  ro- 
mance between  John  McCormick,  Colleen 
Moore's  ex-hubby,  and  Mae  Clark,  is  cool.  .  .  . 
Vivienne  Sengler,  screen  dancer,  files  another 
brcach-of-promise  suit  against  Maurice 
Costello,  who  used  to  be  the  johngilbert  of  the 
early  screen  days    .  .  . 

"CDDIE  WOODS,  screen  juvenile,  announces 
■'—'his  betrothal  to  Harriet  Parsons,  magazine 
writer.  .  .  .  Thelma  Todd,  who  hasn't  been 
seen  any  more  with  Ivan  Lebcdeff,  goes  places 
lately  with  orchestra  leader  Abe  Lyman.  .  .  . 
Xick  Stuart  and  Sue  Carol  gradually  taking 
top  rank  as  happiest  Hollywood  couple.  .  .  . 
Ina  Claire  takes  beach  house  at  Santa  Monica. 
.  .  .  Jack  Gilbert  has  one  at  Malibu  .  .  . 
miles  apart.  .  .  .  Bill  Boyd  and  wifie  Dorothy 
Sebastian  honeymooning  in  Honolulu.  .  .  . 
Anita  Page  is  seen  places  with  Carl  Laemmle, 
Jr.  .  .  .  Virginia  Cherrill,  Charlie  Chap- 
lin's leading  lady,  and  Buster  West's  ex-girl- 
friend, now  seen  out  with  Eddie  Grainger, 
associate  producer  at  Pox.  .  .  .  Virginia  is 
working  in  Pox  films.  .  .  .  Constance  Bennett, 
in  radio  interview,  says  sure  she'll  marry  again 
"if  the  right  man  comes  along"  .  .  .  line  forms 
on  the  right.  .  .  . 

T^EATH  has  sundered  one  of  the  grandest 
■l-^old  couples  in  picture  history. 

Maybe  their  names  don't  mean  much  to 
youngsters  now,  but  every  faithful  film  fan 
remembers  James  Neill  and  Edythe  Chapman. 
No  Lasky  picture,  in  the  old  days,  was  com- 


plete without  one,  or  both  of  these  troupers. 

James  Neill  has  just  died,  at  seventy,  after 
forty-seven  years  on  stage  and  screen,  and 
thirty-four  years  of  happy,  fruitful  married 
life  with  Miss  Chapman,  who  survives  him. 

His  last  picture  role  was  in  "Man  to  Man." 
He  played  Aaron  in  "The  Ten  Command- 
ments" and  The  Apostle  James  in  "The  King 
of  Kings." 

WHEN  Cecil  B.  De  Mille  gets  in- 
terested in  a  scene,  he'll  work 
himself  and  his  players  far  into  the 
afternoon  without  ever  stopping  for 
lunch. 

The  other  day,  luncheon  had  not 
been  called  and  it  was  after  two 
o'clock. 

Eleanor  Boardman  looked  at  her 
watch  and  said,  "I  know  what  hap- 
pened to  C.  B.  when  he  went  to  the 
hospital  the  last  time.  They  took  his 
stomach  out." 

MARLENE    DIETRICH    has    a    famous 
chauffeur,  as  such  things  go. 
His  name  is  Harry  Wright.    Once  he  pushed 
the  gilded  hack  of  His  Majesty,  the  King  of  the 
Belgians,  and  during  the  Boer  War  he  acted  as 
personal  bodyguard  to  the  late  Lord  Kitchener. 
Now  he  has  the  honor  of  driving  Marlene 
Dietrich  from  place  to  place. 
Is  that  a  job? 

A  ND  now  everybody  is  saying  that  Garbo 
*Vwill  make  only  three  and  possibly  four 
more  pictures  and  then  return  to  Sweden  to 
watch  the  northern  lights  in  lonely  splendor. 

But  it  seems  it  isn't  so.  Garbo's  contract 
has  a  year  and  a  half  to  run  and  there's  no  way 
for  her  to  get  out  of  it. 

WESLEY   RUGGLES,   the  director   who 
brought   "Cimarron"    to   the  screen   so 
magnificently,  is  paying  now  for  all  his  hard 
work. 
He  is  at  his  Malibu  Beach  home  under  the 


care  of  doctors  and   nurses  with  a  strained 
heart,  due  to  overwork. 

HARRISON  CARROLL  reports 
that  a  drunk  saw  Jack  Coogan, 
Sr.,  dancing  at  one  of  the  smart 
hotels  and  said,  "He  sure  was  funny 
when  he  was  a  youngster." 

npiIOSE  who  know  Pauline  Starke  realize  the 
*■  tragedy  of  the  end  of  her  romance  with  Jack 
White.  By  the  time  you  read  this,  the  divorce 
will  be  filed,  although  Pauline  has  made  no 
statements  to  the  newspapers. 

It  will  be  as  dignified  a  procedure  as  pos- 
sible, and  you  can  rest  assured  that  Pauline 
will  say  nothing  against  Jack  White,  because 
she  loves  him. 

You'll  remember  that  Pauline's  career  has 
been  dotted  with  tragedy.  She  is  one  of  the 
best  troupers  in  Hollywood,  who  never  quite 
got  the  breaks.  "A  Connecticut  Yankee"  put 
her  on  top  in  the  silent  days.  A  long  term  con- 
tract with  M-G-M  followed  and  then  came  a 
gradual  decline.  But  Pauline  didn't  really 
bother  about  that,  for  in  1927  she  married 
comedy  producer  Jack  White. 

It  was  an  ideal  romance,  it  seemed.  She  had 
known  and  admired  him  for  years.  She  loved 
him  deeply. 

A  radiant,  happy  young  matron,  she  thought 
she  had  everything  when  she  took  her  first 
talking  part  in  a  James  Cruze  picture.  No- 
body knows  exactly  what  happened,  but 
Pauline  was  replaced  by  another  actress.  And 
still,  although  she  loved  to  work,  she  didn't 
care  a  lot,  for  there  was  Jack,  the  husband  she 
adored. 

DID  you  hear  the  story  about  the 
actress  who  discovered  that  her 
name  had  been  left  out  of  advertise- 
ments of  a  picture  in  which  she  had 
appeared? 

Anyhow,  she  rushed  up  to  the  pro- 
ducer and  said,  "See  here — no  bill- 
ing, no  cooing." 


John  Barrymore  has  crossed  swords  with  some  of  the  world's  greatest 
swordsmen;  he's  crossed  all  the  Seven  Seas;  he  has  crossed  wits  with 
brilliant  conversationalists.  Now  he  rounds  out  a  lifetime  of  crossings 
by  crossing  eyes  with  Ben  Turpin!  They  met  on  the  Warner  lot,  with 
this  terrible  result 


wmm 


H  o  1  1  v  w  o  o  d    S  t  a  t  i  o  n  —  N-E-W-S 


II  looks  pretty  tough  for  Hilly  Haines  unless 
the  <>M    wisecracker   gets   ■    bang-up   good 
liill>  is  one  of  those  ai  tors  m  ho  seem  to 
ist  »>  long  a  time  to  nm     n  pi  i  tonality 
kid. 

He's  been  given  the  same  sort  of  roles  and 
tli.i  r  i  on't  last. 

The  funny  part  i.  th.it  liill  is  a  really  Swell 

actor.  Phe  few  dramatic  scenes  he's  done  are 
invariably  better  than  his  comedy  ones.  Hut 
he  made  his  name  as  a  smart  guy  and  smart 
guy  he  must  stay. 

I  imagine  that  when  his  time  is  come,  Hilly 
won't  care  an  awful  lot.  He  has  a  profitable 
antique  business.  He's  been  smart  al>out 
saving  his  money.  That  home  of  his  is  so 
beautiful  I  should  think  he'd  hate  to  have  it 
ind  he  has  grand  friends. 

I  ■  in't  picture  Billy  being  too  awfully  un- 
happy no  matter  what  happens. 

FOUND!    The  man  who  doesn't  care  much 
about  Garbo! 

Frederick    Lonsdale,    the    Hritish   dramatist 
ho  wrote  "  Devil  to  Pay"  for  Ronnie  Colman, 
is  the  cool  laddie. 

He  says  he  deems  Greta  incapable  of  spik- 
kinir  English  properly,  and  doesn't  care  to 
write  a  picture  for  her,  thenks  very  motch!  He 
will  do  some  for  Metro,  however,  now  and 
then. 

Kippin'  joke  on  old  Freddie  if  Metro  sticks 
Garbo  in  one  of  them  after  all,  what,  what? 

THE  latest  "most  popular  player" 
contest  has  just  checked  in — 
from  India!  And  Clara  Bow  won — 
those  Indians  like  curry  and  Clara 
and  hot  stuff. 

HELEN  (HANDLER  is  notorious  for  get- 
ting words  all  mixed  up.  Not  very'  long 
ago  her  husband,  Cyril  Hume,  the  novelist, 
received  a  letter  from  the  French  government 
(or  maybe  it  wasn't)  telling  him  that  they 
would  finance  him  for  a  year  if  he  would  go  to 
Madagascar  and  write  a  novel  with  that  place 


•  In  tie.    'I  he  Ed  ■  ■'•.!    to  popular]  i 

i  ommunity. 

Helen  was  intrigued  with  the  idea  and  the 

luwt  day  00  th.  ml : 

'  \\  i  II,  I  may  not  he  here  mm  h  longer.    ■ 

and  I  are  thinking  aboul  going  to  Madagascar 
to  populate  it." 


I 


l  ^l    becau  ••  Corinne  Griffith  has  not  sp- 
Jpeared  on  the  screen  recently  is  no  criterion 

that  she  has  been  idling  away  the  hour-.  Far 
from  it.  Corinne  has  a  knack  for  business  and 
owns   most  of   the  choice  S|M)ts  in   and   alw>ut 

Beverly  Hills,  including of&  e  buildings,  \a<  ant 

UM  a  swell  mansion  In  fact  most  of  the 
property  that  goes  to  make  Beverly  Hills  has 
passed  through  Corinne'fl  very  beautiful  hands 
at  some  time  or  another.     She  is  an  able  and 

respected  <■  iti/.en. 

It  was  Corinne  who  took  the  First  taxi  ride 
when  the  Yellow  Cab  Company  brought  their 
invaluable  service  to  the  town.  Never  a 
Chamber  of  Commerce  dinner  without 
Corinne's  name  on  the  honor  list.  All  in  all, 
we  nominate  Corinne  for  the  next  mayor  of 
Beverly. 

OUR  nomination  for  the  meanest 
man  in  the  world — the  Holly- 
wood director  who  installed  a  micro- 
phone in  the  guest-room  where 
guests  take  off  their  hats  and  coats 
at  his  parties. 

Whatever  is  said  there,  is  broadcast 
from  a  loud  speaker  downstairs. 


REMEMBER  we  said,  not  SO  long  ago.  that 
l'athc  should  straighten  out  the  contract 
trouble  between  themselves  and  Ann  Harding 
and  because  of  her  grand  work  and  her  equally 
grand  standing  at  the  box-oi'lice.  give  the  little 
girl  everything  she  want-? 

Modesty  forbids  our  saying  that  they  took 
our  humble  advice.  Hut  the  fact  remains  that 
the  old  contract — the  one  that  caused  the 
trouble — has  In-en  torn  up  and  Ann  has  a  brand 
new  one  that  runs  for  three  years.    She  gets 


How  they  took  closeups  of  the  family  at  the  dinner  table  for  "Bad 
Sister."  Camera  and  microphone  were  placed  in  the  center  and  swung 
around  as  each  actor  spoke  his  piece.  The  players,  beginning  at  the 
bottom  and  moving  right — Charles  Winninger,  Helene  Chadwick, 
Bette  Davis,  Emma  Dunn  and  Sidney  Fox 


Weight,  Hollywood's  bugaboo, 
was  the  cause  of  Marie  Prevost's 
Metro  contract  not  being  re- 
newed. A  grand  little  actress, 
but  oh,  those  fatal  pounds! 
Marie  as  she  looked  in  "Paid" 


more  money — lots  more — and  won't  be  loaned 
to  other  companies. 

MRS.  CHEVALIER  is  tired  of  being  just 
the  missus. 
The  French  star's  wife  is  a  musical  comedy- 
favorite  in  Paris.  Here  she  has  just  been  Mrs, 
Maurice  Chevalier.  So  she  is  about  to  take  a 
vaudeville  whirl,  billed  as  Yvonne  Yallee,  her 
stage  name. 

But  you  can  bet  your  last  sou  that  some- 
where on  the  boards,  in  sizable  type,  will  be 
''Mrs.  Maurice  Chevalier."     Show  busin. 
like   that.     There's  plenty  in   a   name,    Mr. 
Shakespeare! 

GENE  MARKEY  continues  to  be 
Gloria    Swanson's   most    steady 
boy  friend. 

Gene's  the  writer,  you  know,  who 
came  to  Hollywood  in  the  wake  of 
Ina  Claire.  While  he  was  rushing 
Westward,  Ina  slipped  off  and  mar- 
ried John  Gilbert. 

RAMON  NOYARRO  wears  a  little  wire  cap 
between  scenes  to  keep  his  hair  in  place — a 
sort  of  glorified  marcel  cap. 

THE  volcanic  daddy  of  the  three  Bennett 
beauties  is  in  pictures  again.  Meaning  that 
Richard,  she  of  The  Three  Graces,  Connie, 
Barbara  and  Joan,  is  playing  Marion  Davies' 
father  in  "  Five  and  Ten."  her  new  talkie. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  80  ] 


Here  Comes  Tallulah/ 


The  American  girl,  who  fascinated  London  with  her 
paprika,  comes  home  and  makes  a  talkie.  She's 
a   brand   new  type  —  will   she   hit   or   miss? 


THE  ginger  of  a  Clara  Bow — the  wise  eyes  and 
cool  brow  of  a  Garbo — the  throaty  voice  of  a 
Jeanne  Eagels — the  smartness  of  tomorrow's 
best    epigram — that's    Tallulah    Bankhead! 

Will  —it  will  give  you  an  idea  of  this  Alabama 
girl  who  has  come  back  to  America  to  make  some 
talkies  after  standing  London  on  its  delicate,  shell- 
pink  ear  for  eight  years. 

She's  different,  a  new  type.  This  Tallulah's  going  to  be  big — 
a  big  hit,  or  a  big  flop.  There's  nothing  half-way  about  the 
Bankhead  lass. 

An  American  tornado  in  the  English  theater  since  she  was 
twenty,  she  has  come  back  to  the  homeland  determined  to  make 
good  for  the  home-folks  in  talking  pictures.    Tossing  away  the 
harum-scarum  act  that  enslaved  the  British  equivalent  of 
flapper,  Tallulah  went  to  work. 

She's    finished    her    first    picture,    "The    Tarnished 
Lady,"    at    the    Paramount    Studio   on    Long    Island. 
She'll   make   more.      She's   a   personality,    this   girl. 
Here's  how  she  became  what  she  is  today. 

Eight   years  ago   she   was  an  almost  unknown 
youngster  on  the  Broadway  stage.     She  hadn't 
registered.     So  she  moved  on  London. 

A  run  on  the  Bank  of  England  couldn't  have 
stirred   staid   old   London  more.     Here  was 
something  new!     She  had  the  enthusiasm,  { 

animation,  energy  that  the  British  think  of 
as  American.    In  this  case  it  was  mostly 
Tallulah.    Of  course,  she's  deprecatory. 

"Remember,  the  English  stage  is  old, 
bred  from  the  same  strain  for  centuries. 
It  had  weakened.    I  brought  a  new 
strain,  fresh  vigor.     That's  all." 

Whatever     it     was     Tallulah 
brought — pep,  talent  or  glamour 
— it  clicked.    She  got  first-rate 
parts — "The     Green     Hat," 
"The  Gold  Diggers,"  "Her 
Cardboard    Lover,"    "Let 
Us  Be  Gay,"  other  plays 
that  had  been  American 
sensations. 

And   London,   half 
terrified  and  entirely 
fascinated,  took  her 
to  its  heart.     She 
was    a    flash    of 
lightning  in  the 


By 

Frances 
Denton 


fog.  She  startled,  she  thrilled,  she  delighted.  In  a 
few  years  she  was  the  most  popular  young  actress  in 
Great  Britain — this  flaming  daughter  of  a  line  of 
Alabama  politicians. 

Thousands  of  girls  had  the  usual  "crushes"  on 

her.     She  was  a  real  "gallery  god" — that  Briti.-h 

institution  which  has  the  frenzied  devotion  of  the 

customers  on  the  shelf,  who  are  entitled  to  cheer 

and  boo.     They  stood  in  line  at  theater  doors  for  hours  to 

catch  a  glimpse  of  her — they  followed  her  everywhere.     The 

adoration  of  American  movie  fans  for  popular  stars  is  something 

like  it,  but  not  nearly  so  personal,  so  vivid  and  so  satisfying. 

What  a  girl!    She  might  turn  hand-springs  in  the  Savoy  Hotel, 

causing  dignified  diners  to  fall  headlong  into  their  consomme. 

One  day  a  disgruntled  American  actress  came  up  to  Tallulah 

in  a  hotel  dining-room,  slapped  her  face,  tore  her  hat  off 

and  covered  her  with  language. 

Tallulah,  poised  as  ever,  freed  herself,  put  her  hat  back 

on,  and  lit  a  cigarette.     She  was  nonchalant.     She 

figured  it  the  proper  play.    And  if  she  had  felt  that 

it  would  be  right  to  swing  a  left  to  the  attacker's 

jaw,  why,  she'd  have  done  that,  too! 

There  were  hearty  London  farewells   when   it 

came  time  to  return  to  America  and  tackle 

talkies.    Farewell  parties — heart-broken  notes 

from    the    "gallery    gods."      And    Tallulah 

sailed  home — no  longer  the  vivid  youngster, 

but  a  smart,  mature,  poised  woman  of 

the  world  and  the  theater. 

She  was  perfect  when  New  York  met 

her  with  pencil  and  camera.    She  was 

dignified  and  amusing — she  said  and 

did    the   right    things.      And   she 

went  to  work  like  a  good  trouper. 

The  head  of  the  company  for 

which  she  was  working  came  on 

her  set  out  at  Long  Island, 

when  "The  Tarnished  Lady" 

was  in  work.    Still  a  little 


camera   and   microphone 

shy,  she  wondered  if  he 

would    mind    leaving. 

He   didn't,   and   did. 

What  manner  of  girl 

is  this  intense 

young  cyclone 

[please  turn  to 

page  104  ] 


This  was  a  tough  picture  to  get — it  shows  Tallulah  Bankhead  in  a  reposeful  state  of  mind  and  body. 
Moving  pictures  were  made  for  dashing  girls  like  this.     A  scene  from  "The  Tarnished  Lady" 


-',<■> 


Tlii-   1 1 1 1 1 «-   orphan   was   be- 
wildered. "They're  lOTflliM 
—  than      heaven!"    she 
murmured  breathlessly — 


ONE  of  Amer- 
ica 9s  fn  vorite 

story  writers 
tells  of  <m  odd 
turn  of  fate  in 
the  movie  world 


A 


ttar  of  Roses 


THE  story  began — oh,  it  might  have  been  a  tritle  more 
than  ten  years  ago.  Not  too  long  after  the  war;  just 
before  the  wave  of  Latin  popularity  began  to  sweep 
across  the  screens  oi  a  million  movie  theaters.  Slender, 
sleek-haired  heroes  weren't,  as  yet,  the  vogue.  The  public 
taste— and  especially  that  vast  percentage  of  the  public  taste 
that  was  feminine — still  ran  to  muscular  arms  and  broad 
shoulders  ami  curly,  not  too  short  hair,  and  cleft  chins,  "lie- 
man"  was  the  priceless  adjective.  "S.  A."  hadn't  become  a 
national  byword. 

Muscular  arms,  broad  shoulders,  curly  hair — and  a  cleft 
chin!  They  made  the  pattern — a  pattern  that  was  hard  to 
beat. 

And  Roland  Roundtree  had  them  all.  Had  them  all — plus! 
Tanting  women  dreamed  of  him,  wrote  fan  letters  to  him, 
begged  for  his  latest  photograph,  named  their  boy  babies  for 
him.     Greater  love  hath  no  following — than  that!     When  he 


By 

Margaret 

E. 
Sangster 

Illustrated    b y 
H.    R.    Ballineer 


graced  the  stage  of  a  vaudeville  theater,  in  the  flesh,  the 
militia  had  to  be  called  out — nearly — to  keep  back  the  crowds. 
When  he  made  a  new  picture  it  was  an  event  of  real  importance. 

And  when  he  walked  down  the  street — even  though  the 
street  was  thrill-proof  Broadway — the  crowds  fell  back  to 
give  him  precedence  and  shoulder  iroom.  Such  was  the  pop- 
ularity of  Roland  Roundtree — just  a  little  over  a  decade  ago. 

Perhaps  one  of  the  few  women  in  the  country  who  didn't 
bow  down  and  worship  at  his  shrine  was  Mary  Smithers.  And 
she  wasn't  a  woman  yet — she  was  only  a  gawky,  under- 
nourished, freckled  twelve-year-old.  And  she'd  never  been  to 
the  movies  in  her  life — and  she  didn't  know  that  such  a  person 
as  Roland  Roundtree  existed. 

Mary,  you  see,  didn't  have  much  of  a  chance  to  get  around. 
She  didn't  have  much  of  a  chance  to  know  what  the  world  was 
talking  about.  She  lived  in  a  dingy  gray  building,  in  a  dingy 
part  of  the  city.  The  building,  and  its  gray,  paved  yard,  was 
shut  away  behind  high  gray,  ominous  walls.  She — and  the 
others  who  were  her  companions — wore  gray  dresses  that 
looked  as  if  they  were  made  to  match  the  building  and  the 
paved  yard  and  the  walls. 

In  fact,  the  whole  world,  to  Mary,  had  a  gray  cast.  The 
skies,  the  trees,  the  very  stars  at  night — when  she  saw  them! 
Mary  didn't  get  much  of  the  fun  out  of  life  that  a  twelve-year- 
old  should  get.  One  day  was  pretty  much  like  another  da\ — 
one  week  was  identically  modeled  after  every  other  week.  There 
wasn't  much  of  laughter  for  Mary — and  there  wasn't  any  love. 

No — you're  wrong!  Mary  didn't  live  in  a  reformatory — 
although,  from  the  description,  the  gray  building  might  just 
as  well  have  been  a  reformatory!  Mary  was  one  of  the  two 
hundred  gray-clad  youngsters  who  lived  in  an  orphan  asylum. 
She  was  so  thin,  and  plain,  and  hungry-eyed  that  she'd  never 
run  the  slightest  chance  of  being  adopted,  either.  She'd  never, 
even,  been  pretty  when  she  was  a  baby! 

ANYWAY,  her  isolation  was  extreme.  And  her  knowledge 
of  passing  events  was  meager.  Even  the  war  had  only  been 
a  vague  shadowing  of  far-off  smoke — an  unexplained  rumble  of 
far-off  guns.  And  she  had  never,  in  all  of  her  twelve  years, 
heard  mention  of  the  name  of  Roland  Roundtree.  She  never 
would  have  heard  it,  probably — for  a  popular  idol's  fame  can 
vanish  as  the  dew  vanishes  under  the  sun — but  for  a  couple  of 
happenings  that  came  together. 

Roland  Roundtree  came  from  California  to  her  city,  to  make 
a  personal  appearance  or  two.  And  Mary — bored  to  the  very 
fiber  of  her  soul — decided  to  run  away  from  the  asylum. 

■is 


This  story  starts,  as  I  said  in  the  beginning,  a  matter  of 
more  than  ten  years  ago.  And  it  starts  on  the  corner  of 
Broadway  and  Forty-second  Street — where  a  good  many  other 
stories,  very  different  in  motif,  have  also  started. 

It  began  at  that  moment  when  Man- — with  every  freckle 
etched  in  sharp  relief,  upon  her  white,  uplifted,  excited  little 
face — was  standing  on  the  corner.  Drinking  in  the  magic  of 
the  amazing,  chaotic,  kaleidoscope  that  was  New  York  at 
night.  Reveling  in  the  first  romantic  impressions  of  a  drab 
lit  tie  life. 

SHE  had  run  away  with  great  ease,  from  the  asylum.  It  had 
been  so  simple,  the  business  of  escape,  that  Mary — standing 
in  the  midst  of  the  swirling  crowd — wondered  why  she'd  never 
thought  to  do  it  before.  She  had  merely  wandered  away  from 
the  other  children — she  had  merely  been  loitering  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  barred  gate  when  a  delivery  man  came  in  with 
a  weekly  supply  of  groceries.  It  was  just  before  the  supper 
hour — everyone  was  either  preoccupied  or  actually  busy.  So 
Mary  just  waited  until  the  delivery  man  had  completed  his 
business,  and  then  followed  out  through  the  gate,  after  him. 

So  silent  she  had  been — such  a  slim  gray  wraith,  she  was.  in 
the  shadow  of  his  bulk  (he  was  a  stout  delivery  man)  that  he 
had  been  quite  unaware  of  her.  Once  she  had  gained  the  street 
there  was  nothing  left  to  worry  about.  She  just — vanished; 
it  hadn't  been  hard.  She  wasn't  without  funds,  either— 
not  a  bit  of  it!  There  were  eight  nickels,  seven  dimes,  and  two 
quarters  in  the  pockets  of  her  gray  dress.  They  represented 
almost  two  years  of  intense  Scotch  thrift.  They  represented 
the  hoarding  of  every  gift  that  had  been  bestowed  by  every 
generous  visitor.  They  stood  for  two  Christmas  trees  and  two 
Easter  festivals  and  one  May  party  and  one  Thanksgiving. 

They  stood  for  more  than  that — they  stood  for  liberty. 

Mary  boarded  a  street  car.  The  car  ran  only  a  block  from 
the  asylum.     She  presented  a  nickel  to  the  conductor. 

"What,"  she  said,  as  she  presented  the  nickel,  "is  the  busiest 
place  in  this  town?" 

The  conductor  laughed. 

"Broadway  'n  Forty-second  Street,"  he  told  her.  And  then 
— "You're  kinda  small  to  be  out  alone — and  it'll  be  dark  be- 
fore long — "    (Mary  didn't  look  her  twelve  years). 

"I'm  on  an  errand,"  she  said,  "for  my  folks." 

(What  would  it  be  like  to  have  folks  to  go  on  errands  for? 
she  wondered.) 

She  left  the  car,  in  the  gathering  dusk,  at  the  town's  busiest  ( 
corner.     The  conductor,   with  knit  brows,   watched  her  go. 


i^B 


"But  I  thought," 
said  her  director, 
"that  you  came  from 
the  London  stage!" 
"It's  a  good  line.  I 
encourage  people  to 
think  so,"  said 
Maryc  casually 


It  was  he,  later,  who  told 
a  distracted  asylum  super- 
intendent where  a  little 
lost  girl  might  be  found. 


MARY  had  supper.  As 
unlike  an  asylum  sup- 
per as  possible.  She  had  it  in  a  glittering  white-tile  restaurant, 
and  she  didn't  care  that  it  absorbed  nearly  all  of  her  savings, 
for  it  was  mostly  ice  cream  and  angel  cake  and  pie.  After 
supper  she  wandered  out  into  the  crowded  street,  and  took  up 
her  -tation  on  the  brightest  corner.  There  was  so  much  to  see, 
on  that  corner.  Women  in  furs — although  it  was  summer. 
Little  girls  her  own  age — but  in  silk  dresses.  Sidewalk  venders 
who  sold  delightful  things  —  Mary  bought  a  chubby  Kewpie 
doll  (she'd  ne%-er  seen  a  Kewpie  doll,  before)  from  one  of  them. 

Taxis  scuttling.  Limousines  darting.  Police  blowing 
whistles.  Trolley  cars  rattling.  Noise,  thrill,  wonder,  every- 
where. Everything  painted  in  vivid  colors — nothing  gray 
.  .  .  Mary  stood,  enraptured,  while  minutes  became  hours. 
Nobody  paid  any  attention  to  her — she  was  such  a  small, 
vague  thing — and  everyone,  even  the  policemen,  was  so  busy. 
So  she  just  stood — trembling   with    excitement    and   delight. 

Ami  then  all  at  once  from  out  of  a  theater  doorway  came  a 
sound  of  cheering  and  clapping.  And  a  group  of  men  elbowed 
their  way  through  what  promised  to  be  a  small  mob.     And 


Mary,  peering  down  the  street,  saw  that  one  of  the  men  was 
taller  than  the  others,  and  broader,  and  more  handsome. 
And  that,  though  the  others  wore  shiny  tall  hats,  his  curly 
head  was  bare.  And  that — oddest  thing  in  a  whole  Arabian 
Nights  evening — he  carried  a  great  armful  of  flowers.  Scarlet, 
long-stemmed  roses — dozens  of  them.  Mary  had  never  seen 
American  beauties,  before.  As  the  men  came  down  the  street, 
toward  her,  she  caught  her  breath  to  see  them.  And  her  two 
thin  hands  came  up  to  clasp  themselves  together  on  her  flat 
little  gray-covered  breast. 

The  men  were  coming  close.  The  crowd,  gathering  from 
all  around,  threatened  to  submerge  them.  They  were  laugh- 
ing, joking.  Mary — caught  by  the  throb  of  existence — 
teetered  on  her  toes  at  their  [  please  turn  to  page  134  ] 


ow 


N 


orma 


Sh 


earer 


Hurrell 


THE  girl  who  got  what  she  wanted!    Norma  Shearer,  by  her 
own  standards,  is  Hollywood's  perfect  success.    Fighting  and 
whipping  obstacles  one  by  one,  she  is  famous  star,  admired  woman, 
beloved  wife  and  mother.    Yet,  in  the  article  over  the  way,  Katlv 
erine  Albert  wonders  whether  Norma  missed  some  of  the  joy  of 
life  on  her  climb  to  glory! 

50 


G-0/What  She  Wanted 

A  steel  will  and  driving  ambition  overcame  her 
handicaps  and  brought  her  love  and  success.  But 
has  she  missed  anything,  in  her  fi<^ht  for  fame? 


By  Katherine  Albert 


Will  \  Norma  shearer  enters  a  room — oh  boy,  she 
enters  that  room! 
Her  head  is  high,  chin  up,  shoulders  back.    She 
is  the  essence  of  grace  and  assurance.    Graciously, 

she  nods  to  her  friends  and  vim  have  the  feeling  that  if  the  draw- 
ing-room were  in  the  \\  bite  House  at  Washington  or  Bucking- 
ham Palace  it  would  be  the  same.  Invariably,  she  is  the  best- 
dressed  (although  the  lea>t  Ostentatious),  the  most  beautiful 
despite  terrific  physical  handicaps*,  and  altogether  the  most 
charming  woman  in  the  room.  You  wish  you,  yourself,  were  a 
little  more  at  ease,  just  a  trifle  better  groomed.  Norma  has 
always  been  like  that.     Except  once. 

That  was  just  before  her  baby  was  born.  For  the  first  time 
in  her  life  she  was  not  completely  mistress  of  the  circum- 
stances. For  once  Norma  was  baffled.  Something  quite  be- 
yond her  was  happening.  She  was  caught  up  in  nature's  whirl- 
pool and  her  eyes  wore  a  stark  look,  her  shoulders  drooped. 
Norma  Shearer,  able  to  bend  every  person's  will  to  her  own, 
had  become  merely  a  woman — a  woman  who  was  going  to  have 
a  baby.    And  she  was  afraid. 

This  new  attitude  didn't  last  long.  She  returned  to  her  own 
cool,  classic  self.  And  why  not?  Norma,  the  indomitable, 
triumphed  over  whatever  whim  nature  might  have  had.  Norma 
had  a  boy. 

WHEN  the  event  was  announced,  a  certain  star  who  had 
always  wanted  a  man  child  and  had  a  girl  instead  said, 
"Norma's  had  a  boy.     I  knew  it.     I  knew  it.     Norma  wouldl" 

At  the  time  I  would  have  bet  a  tidy  sum  (well,  at  least  it 
would  have  been  tidy)  that  Norma's  baby  would  be  a  boy. 
The  trouble  was  I  couldn't  get  a  bet.  Everybody  felt  sure 
that  if  Norma  Shearer  wanted  a  boy  she'd  get  one,  despite 
what  Mother  Nature  had  planned,  as  she's  gotten  everything 
else  she  has  wanted. 

Now  let's  go  back  a  bit  and  see  what  has  caused  this  divine 
belief  in  Norma. 

Consider  her  when  she  first  came  to  New  York  from  Canada 
to  go  into  pictures.  Her  eyes  were  unusually  small  and  deep 
set.  There  was  also,  in  one  of  them,  a  slight  tendency  toward 
a  cast.  Her  teeth  lapped  in  front.  Although  her  figure  was 
perfect,  her  legs  were  not.  In  fact.  D.  YV.  Griffith,  who  was 
then  the  great  master,  said  to  her,  "My  dear,  you'll  never  get 
along  in  pictures.     Your  blue  Irish  eyes  won't  photograph." 

If  ever  I  were  to  doubt  that  mind  was  greater  than  matter, 
Norma  Shearer  would  pull  me  back  into  line.  When  you  look 
at  her,  you  think  her  utterly  beautiful  and  yet  she  has  these 
glaring  defects.  I  believe  that  she  hypnotizes  you  into  be- 
lieving that  she  is  beautiful.  I'd  expect  anything  from  a 
woman  like  Norma. 

Nobody  knows  what  she  has  gone  through  during  that  amaz- 
ing journey  toward  success.  No  hours  were  too  long,  no  effort 
too  tedious  if  it  brought  her  what  she  wanted.  Her  teeth 
could  not  be  permanently  straightened,  so  for  years  she  wore 
a  brace  under  them,  a  device  that  tortured  her.  She  also  learned 
how  to  stand,  both  for  still  pictures  and  before  the  moving  film 
camera  so  that  the  lines  of  her  legs  would  appear  to  be  perfect.. 
Norma  didn't  miss  a  single  bet. 


The  raw  material.    The  Norma  Shearer  of  1923, 

when  she  broke  into  pictures  for  Louis  B.  Mayer. 

Her  own  spiritual  force  turned  her  into  the  sleek, 

gorgeous  girl  across  the  way 

Handicapped  as  she  was  physically,  what,  then,  did  she  have 
to  offer?  A  theatrical  background?  Long  years  of  stage  ex- 
perience? A  thorough  knowledge  of  screen  technique?  Not 
at  all.  She  had  never  appeared  upon  a  stage  or  screen.  She 
did  not  even  know  a  single  actor  or  any  one  in  any  way  con- 
nected with  the  business.  And  yet  she  and  her  'hus 
unequipped)  arrived  in  New  York  to  get  into  pictures.  Sister 
Athole  soon  gave  up  the  fight,  but  Norma  went  on.  What 
courage,  what  sheer  will-power,  what  absolute  nerve  it  took. 
nobody  will  ever  thoroughly           [  please  tirn  to  page  102  ] 


*2,000.^  For  Yo 


ur 


$2,000.00  in  cash  for  best  story  idea  for  title 
"Beauty  and  the  Boss."  Equal  amount 
for  other  short  picture  stories  accepted 


JUST  grab  that  fellow  who  has  been  talking  "hard  times," 
hold  him  fast  and  shout  this  in  his  ear: 
"There's  $2,000  waiting  for  you  at  PHOTOPLAY'S  office!" 
It's  waiting  there  for  the  best  story  that  fits  the  title,  "Beauty 
and  the  Boss,"  which  Warner  Bros,  want  to  produce  with 
Marian  Marsh  and  David  Manners  in  the  leading  roles. 

And  there  are  nine  more  checks  for  $2,000  waiting,  too. 

Yes,  nine  more  for  the  best  stories  with  picture  ideas  from 
amateur  writers. 

As  we  told  you  last  month  in  announcing  this  opportunity  to 
tell  your  story  in  your  own  way  and  get  $2,000  for  it,  originality 
will  mean  more  than  literary  ability.  It's  your  story  that  Warner 
Bros.  want. 

If  you  can  tell  a  story  that  you  think  will  fit  the  title  of  "Beauty 
and  the  Boss,"  fine  and  dandy!    Get  right  to  work  and  tell  it. 

But  if  you  think  you  have  a  better  story  of  your  own,  why> 
that's  fine,  too.  Tell  it.  If  it's  human  and  interesting  and 
original  it  can  win  one  of  the  nine  $2,000  checks  that  are  also 
waiting. 

Remember  that  the  wonderful  modern  cameras  and  sound 
mechanisms  recognize  no  limitations.  They  can  tell  any  story. 
From  the  most  ponderous  depths  of  the  ocean,  20,000  leagues 
under  the  sea,  to  the  airy,  fanciful  regions  above  the  clouds; 
from  the  majestic  splendors  of  the  Taj  Mahal  to  the  homely 
thatched  cottage  of  the  Irish  countryside;  from  the  squalid 
tenements    to   the    mansions   of  the    rich   the   camera   moves 


quickly  and  easily.  The  whole  world  is  your  setting  and  all 
the  people  in  it  your  characters. 

But  be  original — and  sincere.  Jacob  Wilk,  manager  of  the 
story  department  of  Warner  Bros.-First  National,  whose  helpful 
suggestions  are  printed  here  for  your  guidance,  tells  you  that 
"the  story  should  roll  along  just  as  though  you  were  telling  of 
something  that  really  happened. 

"Never  for  a  moment  should  the  disagreeable  sensation  of 
artificiality  be  present." 

NOW,  just  to  remind  you  and  reassure  you  again.  You  don't 
have  to  be  a  literary  genius.  Just  be  original.  Look  around 
you,  think  of  things  that  have  happened  to  you,  or  that  have 
shaped  the  lives  of  your  friends.  Maybe  a  great  present-day 
problem  that  has  deeply  affected  you  offers  a  moving,  human 
story. 

Talk  it  over  with  the  family.  Better  still,  write  it  with  the 
family. 

Let  every  one  in  on  it,  and  make  it  an  exciting,  thrilling 
and  profitable  game. 

You  have  plenty  of  time,  until  midnight  of  July  15.  The  rules 
are  simple  and  easy  to  follow.  They  are  printed  on  another 
page. 

Read  them  carefully.  Read  Mr.  Wilk's  suggestions.  They 
will  help  you,  too.  And  now,  go  to  it.  Everybody!  And  win 
those  $2,000  checks! 


By  Jacob  Wilk 

(Manager  of  the  Story  Department, 
Warner  Bros-- First  National  Pictures) 

IT  seems  ever  to  be  the  rule  that 
those  things  which  appear  easiest 
to  do  are  precisely  those  which  in 
the  long  run  are  the  most  difficult. 

What  is  so  simple — on  the  face  of 
it — as  writing  a  scenario?  A  few 
words,  dashed  off  without  regard  to 
literary  style,  or  even  too  strict 
observance  of  the  rudiments  of 
grammar  and — presto!  the  task  is 
completed.  All  that  remains  is  to 
write  a  crisp  business  note  to  the 
story  editor  of  one  of  the  motion 
picture  companies  to  accompany  the 
enclosed  manuscript,  and  then  to  sit 
back  and  await  the  check  in  (it  is 
fondly  hoped)  the  return  mail. 

Alas,  it  is  not  the  check  which 
most  often  comes  back  in  the  return 
mail  but  the  scenario!  And  the 
would-be  writer  for  the  screen  won- 
ders what  could  have  gone  wrong. 

It  is  foolhardy  to  declare  that 
there  are  definite  rules  in  writing 
scenarios,  any  more  than  there  are 
rules  in  writing  books.  Every  time 
an  authority  sets  himself  up  to 
codify  the  laws  of  an  art  like  writing, 


The  camera  recognizes  no  limitations.  It  moves 
time  backward  or  forward,  goes  all  places  at  all 
times  and  sees  all  things.  This  street  scene  of 
Chicago  in  1909,  constructed  on  the  Warner 
Bros,  lot  for  a  sequence  in  "The  Public  Enemy," 
is  but  one  example  of  what  the  movies  can  do 


s 


ee 


Page  94  F 


or 


■■ 


Picture 


id 


ea 


somebody  cornea  ■long  and  succeeds  in  creating  a  masterpiece  in  spite 
of  the  fai  i  ih.it  he  Ha-,  disregarded  all  of  them. 

Rules  being  what  they  arc,  please  be  warned  that  you  will  find  none 
here.  What  I  propose  to  submit  for  your  consideration  are  admonitions 
and  precautions.  Observe  them  carefully  and  you  will  avoid  the  pit- 
falls that  litter  the  path  of  the  scenarist. 

Guard  against  being  insincere.  This  doesn't  mean  you  are  to  write 
a  scenario  consisting  only  of  the  innermost  secrets  of  your  life.  It 
doesn't  even  mean  you  are  to  exploit  the  scents  of  your  friends'  lives — 
although  that  is  getting  nearer  to  it.  In  the  strictest  sense,  it  mi 
writing  only  that  in  which  you  Wmn — never  that  which  you,  your- 
self know  is  silly  hut  which  you  imagine  will  prove  acceptable  to  others. 

A  S  a  matter  of  fact,  nothing  is  so  difficult  to  pass  off  successfully  as 
**pSeudo  material  which  is  written  with  the  thought  in  back  of  the 
author's  head  that  here  is  something  about  which  he  knows  little  and 
>  ares  less.  The  deceit  breaks  through  every  line,  and  the  story  editor, 
in  reading  such  manuscripts,  finds  himself  saying:  "Why  don't  these 
authors  write  about  the  people  and  things  they  know  best?  Why  docs 
this  prim  school-teacher  base  her  tale  on  life  in  Parisian  cafes?'  Why 
docs  this  clerk  in  a  general  store  treat  of  dope  smugglers  in  Hongkong? 
Isn't  there  enough  drama  within  the  circle  of  their  own  liv< 

Of  course,  there  is  no  injunction  against  a  prim  school-teacher  de- 
scribing life  in  Parisian  cafes,  and  the  same  goes  for  the  clerk  in  the 
general  store.  These  people  have,  at  times,  written  successful  stories 
based  on  incidents  and  situations  lying  wholly  without  the  range  of 
their  experience.  However,  such 
tses  are  the  exceptions.  Why 
shoot  at  a  feather  when  the  whole 
bird  is  available? 

The  great  fallacy  is  that  aspiring 
screen  writers  heedlessly  presume 
that  no  one  is  particularly  interested 
in  what  they  themselves  know  best, 
but  that  what  is  required  in  the  way 
of  a  story  is  a  re-statcment  of  the 
type  of  film  which  happens  to  be  cur- 
rently popular.  Thus  the  preponder- 
ance of  amateur  scenarios  submitted 
within  recent  months  to  the  Warner 
Bros. -First  National  story  depart- 
ment deal  with  the  underworld. 
Here  the  axiom  appears  to  be:  Un- 
derworld films  are  popular,  why  not 
write  an  underworld  story? 

Why  not?  On  the  other  hand, 
why.  unless  there  is  a  strong  inner 
urge  to  tell  something  about  the 
underworld  that  is  not  already 
known? 

There  are  two  things  every  BO  - 
nario  must  have — plot  and  charac- 
terization. This  simply  means  a 
story  with  real,  live  persons  in  it. 
Curiously  enough,  the  story  and  the 
persons  in  it  have  a  very  complete 
relation  to  each  other.  Sometimes  it 
is  the  story  which  makes  the  char- 
acters what  they  are,  and  other  times 


Some  Friendly  Hints 

By  Jacob  Wilk 

l  it 

ACTION    is    essential    in    a    motion 
picture  story. 

A   literary   style  is  not  necessary,  Hut 

the  clear  prise  nt.it  ion  of  ideal  in  dm  in.ii  u 

form  is  essential. 

The  great  fallacy  is  that  aspiring  screen 
writers  heedlessly  presume  thai  n<>  one 

is    particularly    interested    in    wli.it    tlu\ 

themselves  know  best. 

There  are  two  thing!  c\cr\  story  must 
have — plot    and    characterization. 

The  successful  writer  knows  his  suh- 
ject. 

Write  only  that  in  which  you  believe 
— never  that  which  you,  yourself,  know 
is  silly,  hut  which  you  imagine  will  prove 
acceptable  to  others. 


it  is  the  characters  which  make  the  story.  Either  of  these  two  cases  is 
good,  for  in  real  life  it  is  sometimes  events  which  change  or  mold  our 
lives  and  other  times  it  is  we  who  change  and  mold  events. 

What  is  bad,  however,  is  for  neither  plot  nor  characters  to  have  any 
relationship  to  each  other — or  a  slight  or  implausible  relationship — or 
for  the  one  to  be  overdeveloped  at  the  expense  of  the  other. 

In  the  case  of  all  plot  and  no  characterization,  we  have  a  tremendous 
lot  of  action  without  any  meaning  in  terms  of  human  interest.  We  arc 
conscious  that  things  arc  happening,  but  that  no  one  for  whom  we  can 
feel  any  sympathy  is  affected  in  the  least.  Our  reaction  is  almost 
exclusively  restricted  to  the  eyes  as  opposed  to  the  heart  or  emoi 
Contrariwise,  an  over-emphasis  on  [  please  turn  to  pace  125  ) 


Rul 


es  of 


Lont 


est 


Capturing  six-cylinder  action  in  "The  Public 
Enemy."  Another  example  of  the  mobility  of 
the  camera  and  the  ability  of  the  screen  to 
tell  your  story,  no  matter  where  it  takes  place. 
James  Cagney  and  Edward  Woods  are  being 
photographed  in  the  light  car  in  the  for«>sround 


THE   NATIONAL   GUIDE   TO   MOTION    PICTURES 


■k 


THE  FRONT  PAGE— United  Artists 


LUSTY  with  the  same  rowdy  boisterousness  that  made  it 
big  box-ofiice  on  the  stage,  "The  Front  Page"  has 
reached  the  screen. 

Unchastened  by  contemplation  of  the  Hays'  code,  it  man- 
ages by  devious  means  to  retain  every  bit  of  its  original 
aroma — certainly  not  that  of  the  lily,  certainly  not  far 
removed  from  the  lily's  roots.  All  that  aside,  here's  a  great 
movie!  It's  fast,  it's  alive,  it  packs  thrills  and  laughs  and 
sobs  together  at  high  speed.  It  runs  nearly  an  hour  and 
three-quarters,  and  you  don't  get  tired.    That's  the  acid  test. 

Producer- Millionaire  Hughes  used  all  the  money  it  needed 
to  do  this  well.  The  cast  bristles  with  big  names.  Menjou 
takes  top  honors,  and  if  any  more  proof  were  needed  that 
Lewis  Milestone  is  a  magician  of  a  director,  this  is  it. 


& 


THE  MILLIONAIRE— Warners 


THIS  is  the  first  time  George  Arliss  has  undertaken  a 
picture  not  made  from  one  of  his  stage  plays,  in  which  he 
was  letter  perfect. 

It  is  also  the  first  time  he  has  ever  made  a  picture  so 
essentially  American  in  theme  and  action.  The  result  is  one 
of  the  most  delightful  characterizations  he  has  ever  done. 

A  wealthy  automobile  manufacturer  is  ordered  by  his 
physician  to  give  up  all  work.  The  work  is  his  life,  but  he 
comes  West  with  his  family  and,  disgusted  with  the  constant 
nurses  and  servants,  he  goes  out  on  the  q.  t.  and  gets  himself 
another  business. 

Evalyn  Knapp,  as  the  daughter,  is  attractive  and  lovable, 
while  David  Manners,  as  the  business  partner,  is  particularly 
appealing.    Everybody  should  see  this. 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

ti-;-G.  C.B- **T.  orr.i       fl 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


& 


SKIPPY— Paramount 


MANY  were  agonized  when  they  learned  "Skippy"  was 
to  be  movified.  Those  who  had  learned  to  love  Percy 
Crosby's  Skippy  on  the  comic  page  feared  what  Hollywood 
would  do  with  him.  Those  who  hate  all  kids  and  kid  pictures 
groaned  at  thought  of  another.  But  "Skippy"  is  grand. 
You'll  love  it — as  much  for  what  it  isn't  as  for  what  it  is. 

They  have  had  the  courage  to  dispense  with  such  cine- 
matic traditions  as  slapstick  hokum  and  "love  interest." 
They've  had  the  courage  to  picture  as  simply  as  a  child 
thinks,  a  kid  friendship  and  the  childish  tragedies  and 
triumphs  that  loom  so  colossally  in  their  lives.  You  laugh, 
you  cry,  and  you  don't  feel  afterward  that  you've  been 
tricked  into  doing  either. 

Jackie  Cooper  and  Bobby  Coogan  as  Skippy  and  Sooky 
are  amazing.  No  taint  of  that  painful  precociousness  of 
child  actors  mars  their  work;  they're  just  kids.  How  much 
of  this  is  due  to  their  own  ability  is  a  question.  The  dialogue, 
which  doesn't  try  to  fit  adult  words  to  kid  tongues,  is  splen- 
did, and  director  Norman  Taurog  has  certainly  shown  high 
talent  in  transferring  to  the  screen  what  goes  on  in  the  minds 
and  hearts  of  children.  In  the  midst  of  the  present  flood  of 
sophistication  and  wild  animals  chewing  each  other,  may 
Allah  be  praised  for  such  an  anodyne  as  "Skippy." 


§■ 


■■■ 


SAVES    VOIR    PICTURE    TIME    AND    MONEY 


The  lVst  Pictures  of  the  Month 


SKIPPY 

I  ill    FR(  >N  I    PAGE 

DISHONORED 

I  \hu  DIRIGIBLE 


M  RANGERS  MAY   Kiss 
THE  Mil  1  [ONAIRE 

ITS  A  WISE  <  HUD 
Ml  PPING  OUT 


The  Best   Performances  of  the  Month 

I.ukic  Cooper  in  "Skippy" 
by  Coogan  in  "Sloppy" 
Adolpbe  Menjoa  in  "The  Front  Page" 

Norma  Shearer  in  "Strangers  M.iy  Kiss" 

Robert  Montgomery  in  "Strangers  May  Kiss" 

Ned  Hamilton  in  "Strangers  May  Kiss" 

i  \rliss  in  "The  Millionaire" 

r  McLaglen  in  "Dishonored" 

Marlene  Dietrich  in  "Dishonored" 

Marion  DavicS  in  "It's  a  Wise  Child" 

Ralph  Graves  in  "Dirigible" 

Richard  Barthelmcss  in  "The  Finger  Points" 

Fredric  March  in  "Honor  Among  Lovers" 

\\  illtam  Powell  in  "Man  of  (he  World" 

Charlotte  Greenwood  in  "Stepping  Out" 

Casts  of  all  photopL.  td  will  be  found  on  page  142 


^ 


STRASGERS  MAY  KISS—M-G-M 


THIS  is  Norma  Shearer's  first  picture  since  she  became  a 
mother,  and  it's  her  finest  picture  to  date. 

That's  going  some,  as  "The  Divorcee"  won  many  of  the 
honors  that  were  floating  around  last  year,  but  Ursula 
I'arrott  develops  her  characters  more  logically  and  Norma's 
work  in  some  scenes  is  superb.  Rarely  has  one  been  as 
gorgeous  as  our  Norma  while  treading  the  primrose  path. 

An  extremely  modern  girl  refuses  marriage,  because  her 
knowledge  of  married  life  has  been  false  and  disappointing. 
After  giving  her  favors  without  benefit  of  clergy,  she  learns 
she  has  cheapened  the  thing  she  most  prized.  After  much 
suffering,  both  she  and  her  lover  grasp  the  deeper  significance 
of  the  marriage  vow.  Sounds  trite,  but  Director  Fitzmaurice 
keeps  it  absorbingly  entertaining  throughout. 

A  splendid  supporting  cast,  in  which  Neil  Hamilton  and 
Robert  Montgomery  share  equal  honors.  Montgomery  wins 
much  sympathy  and  Hamilton  gains  new  laurels.  Irene 
Rich  appears  in  only  one  sequence,  and  cannot  be  forgotten 
throughout  the  picture.    Marjorie  Rambeau  is  charming. 

Both  Modernists  and  Conformists  will  rave  over  this. 
Norma  is  the  last  word  in  everything  sophisticated  (with 
clothes  to  make  you  gasp),  giving  us  beauty,  finesse,  re- 
straint, and  abandon.    A  vivid  drama  of  modern  life. 


tV 


DISHOSORF.l)     Paramount 


IT'S  mighty  difficult  to  get  reviews  into  Photofla?  before 
a  lot  of  our  readers  have  seen  .-some  of  the  pictures.  This 
new  Marlene  Dietrich  picture,  for  instance.  Thousands 
have  already  seen  it.  We  wonder  v. hat  they  really  think  of 
it.    We  feel  it's  the  best  work  Miss  Dietrich  has  done.    She 

plays  B  spy,  the  fascinating  X-Z7.  Here  is  a  new  and  better 
Victor  McLaglen.     And  a  grand  supporting  cast. 

Here  are  all  the  famous  Yon  Sternberg  touches.  Hut 
there  are  too  many  "dissolves"  (the  technical  term  for  over- 
lapping scenes)  and  we  hope  they  won't  do  that  again. 

\\  r're  sure  the  picture  held  you  spellbound,  nevertheless, 
from  the  first  shot  of  Marlene's already  famous  legs  until  the 
lasl  spectacular  moment. 

See  "  Dishonored,"  and  you'll  know  why  we  recommend  it. 


& 


IT'S  A  WISE   CHILD     M-G-M 


NOTWITHSTANDING  the  fact  that  this  Belasco  hit 
ran  more  than  a  year  in  New  York,  and  the  lines  were 
quoted  from  Coast  to  Coast.  Marion  Davies  brings  a  naive 
freshness  to  the  picture  that  makes  it  seem  like  new.  It 
makes  us  feel  like  predicting  a  great  year  for  Marion. 

Robert  Leonard,  who  directed  her  in  "The  Bachelor 
Father."  handles  the  megaphone  again.  He  has  an  unusual 
understanding  of  Marion's  flair  for  comedy,  combined  with 
the  rare  art  of  being  able  to  get  all  the  mirth  out  of  a  risque 
situation  without  offending  the  censors. 

Sidney  Blackmer,  Ben  Alexander,  Folly  Moran.  Marie 
Prevost  and  others  deserve  a  good  hand,  too,  while  James 
Gleason,  as  Cod  A <•'•'..,  is  a  riot.  It's  hilarious  farce  you  will 
walk  blocks  to  see. 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List! 


TABU— 

Paramount 


DIRIGIBLE- 
Columbia 


AFICTURE  of  exquisite  tropical  beauty,  the  last  work  of 
that  master  of  the  screen,  Murnau,  director  of  "The  Last 
Laugh."  See  this  picture  and  encourage  more  like  it.  Robert 
Flaherty,  director  of  "Nanook  of  the  North,"  worked  with 
Murnau  and  shares  the  honors.  A  story  of  the  South  Seas, 
made  with  a  native  cast,  it  concludes  with  a  veritable  screen 
poem  of  tragedy. 


FED  up  with  jungle  thrillers?  Then  come  to  the  South  Pole 
and  get  a  fresh  line  of  thrills.  This  is  a  grand  melodrama, 
packed  with  excitement  on  the  air  and  the  Antarctic  wastes, 
with  dirigible  and  airplane  shots  that  prove  there's  something 
new  even  in  aerial  pictures.  The  Navy  helped  make  it.  You'll 
like  Jack  Holt,  Ralph  Graves,  Fay  Wray  and  Roscoe  Karns, 
who  take  high  honors. 


STEPPING 

OUT— 

M-G-M 


i 

THE  FINGER 
POINTS— 
First  National 


HAVE  you  noticed  how  they're  putting  richer  casts  into  pro- 
gram pictures?  Here's  another  light  comedy  with  an  honor 
list  like  the  old  super-specials.  Charlotte  Greenwood,  Leila 
Hyams,  Reginald  Denny,  Cliff  Edwards,  Merna  Kennedy, 
Harry  Stubbs  and  Lilian  Bond.  Every  one  fits  his  part  as  a 
smart  dress  fits  Norma  Shearer.  It's  a  continual  laugh,  and 
naughty  enough  to  be  spicy.    See  it. 


THIS  story  is  obviously  suggested  by  the  Lingle  murder  case, 
and  makes  an  intensely  absorbing  picture,  with  Barthelmess 
as  the  green  Southern  boy  reporting  for  Chicago's  biggest  news- 
paper. He  tries  playing  straight,  thinks  it  doesn't  pay,  takes 
his  cut  from  the  gangsters,  fails  to  keep  them  protected  and 
pays  the  penalty.  A  decidedly  different  role  for  Barthelmess. 
Regis  Toomey  and  Fay  Wray  are  also  splendid.  Don't  miss  this. 


UNFAITHFUL 
— Paramount 


GOD'S  GIFT 
TO  WOMEN— 
Warners 


CHATTERTON-FOREYER  enthusiasts  will  like  this, 
but  the  average  audience  may  be  tepid.  The  story  of  a 
society  matron  who  cannot  divorce  her  faithless  husband  with- 
out involving  her  own  sister-in-law,  and  who  goes  to  the  dogs 
like  a  kitchen  maid.  However,  fine  actors  like  Taul  Lukas, 
Paul  Cavanagh,  Don  Cook  and  Juliette  Compton  support, 
and  it  will  please  wherever  Chatterton  pictures  are  popular. 

56 


FRANK  FAY,  debonair  French  bachelor,  is  the  gift;  Laura 
La  Plante,  gorgeous  American  blonde,  is  the  final  receiver. 
He  passes  through  many  lovely  feminine  hands,  however, 
before  she  gets  him.  Mostly  in  a  hilarious  manner.  Good  gags 
and  new  ones.  Worth  many  a  laugh.  Nothing  sensational  in 
the  story,  but  still  amusing.  Laura's  beautiful  in  her  return  to 
the  screen.    You'll  want  to  see  her. 


^M 


The    First    and    Best    Talkie    Reviews! 


\/  t\  or  i  in 

HOKI  I) 

Paramount 


\   /  ill  <>l< 
M  \l)l     M  \\ 
M  G-M 


WILLIAM  (SUAVE)  POWELL  turns  in  another  grand 
performance  as  an  expatriated  American  living  by  his 
wits  in  Paris,  The  story  basn't  much  action,  but  it's  so 
dramatic,  emotionally,  that  you  don't  mind.    And  Kill  isn't 

fooling  when  he  says  lie  loves  Carole  Lombard,  who  is  lovely. 

CaJ  York  tipped  you  off  to  that.    Wynne  Gibson  is  the  other 
^irl.    Lawrence  Gray  has  a  small  part.    Good  picture. 


THIS    is   a    blues-chaser,   and    superior    t<>    the   rc.<r,t    Hilly 
Haines  laugh  operas.   Although  rlaines  has  his  usual  jaunty 
self  confidence,  he  plays  it  with  restraint,  thereby  proving 

really  a  good  a>  tor.     I  [e's  supported  by  an  unusually  hue  i 
Incidentally,  it's  funny  without  being  suggestive.     This  i-  the 
Second  time  this  has  been  done  in  pictures.     Charlie  Kay  Ii r ^ t . 
Now  Hill  Haines. 


THE  LASl 
PARADE— 

Columbia 


MR.  LE.\1<)\ 
OF  ORANG1 

—  Fox 


THIS  is  Columbia's  contribution  to  the  big  parade  of  gangster 
talkies  now  marching — and  shooting — across  our  screens. 
It's  a  jim-dandy,  too,  with  thrills,  suspense,  romance  and  some 
good  comedy  dexterously  mingled.  The  cast  is  as  well-balanced 
as  the  plot — led  by  Jack  Holt,  Constance  Cummings  and  Tom 
Moore,  all  three  do  excellently.  The  boys  are  rivals  for 
Constance's    favor.      Jack    wins. 


EL  BRENDEL  bursts  into  stardom  in  this  one,  which  is  a 
burlesque  on  racketeers  and  racketeering  films.  It's  mis- 
taken identity  stuff,  and  El  Krcndel  and  Fifi  Dorsay  do  their 
best  with  the  material  they  have.  You  may  not  laugh  as  much 
as  you  expect  from  an  El  Brendel  picture,  but  the  Bantam  car 
sequence,  and  what  happens  when  he  swallows  a  tiny  mouth- 
organ,  are  funny. 


BACHELOR 
APARTMEST 
— Radio 
Pictures 


HO\OR 
AMONG 

LOVERS— 
Paramount 


THE  Nth  degree  of  sophistication !  Yet  the  amusingly  risque 
situations  are  served  with  a  plot  which  actually  holds  story 
interest.  Lowell  Sherman  proves  he  is  not  only  a  finished  actor, 
but  a  finished  director.  Mae  Murray  makes  a  spectacular 
return  as  the  modern  vamp,  a  restless  married  woman.  Hats 
off  to  Irene  Dunne,  Claudia  Dell.  Noel  Francis,  Charles  Cole- 
man, Norman  Kerry,  Ivan  Lebedeff  and  Purnell  Pratt. 


EXCELLENT  performances  by  Fredric   March.  Claudette 
Colbert  and  Monroe  Owsley  do  all  they  can  to  save  this 
story   of   love   between    boss    and   secretary    from    triteness, 
-ley.  at  present  First  Cad  of  the  Cinema,  is  the  weak  laddie 
Claudette  marries— but  she  and  Freddie  walk  out  of  the  final 
fade-out  hand  in  hand.    And  first-rate  dialogue  helps. 

[  ADDITIONAL  REVIEWS  ON  PACE    126  ] 


Ol 


A  Melancholy  Wisecracker 


We  move  the  camera  close 
to  "Wild  Willie"  Haines, 
a  lazy  funny-man  who  loves 
— and  knows — his  antiques 


By 

Harry    Lang 


T: 


IWAS  a  group  of  Hollywood  cognoscenti,  and  they  were 
having  fun  telling  what  various  film  folk  made  them 
think  of,  in  one  pungent  phrase. 

"Hobart  Bosworth,"  for-instanced  one,  "makes  me 
think  of  Sunday  afternoon  in  Philadelphia." 

"And  Clara  Bow,"  up-piped  another,  "reminds  me  of  an 
inflamed  carbuncle  on  Will  Hays'  neck!" 

"While  Laurel  and  Hardy,"  wisecracked  a  third,  "are,  to 
me,  just  succotash!" 

"What  of  Gary  Cooper?"  asked  one. 

"The  Love-Life  of  a  Giraffe,"  answered  another. 

"Doug  Fairbanks — senior?"  prompted  a  voice. 

"Mahomet  on  a  Pogo-Stick,"  was  the  solution. 

"What  about  William  Haines?" 

Silence.    Great  minds  pondered. 

Then  from  a  corner  came  the  voice  of  a  black-haired  girl. 

She  knows  Bill  Haines  well.      She's  worked  with  him   on 
the  lot,  and  has  met  him  socially. 

"I  know  the  answer,"  she  said. 

"What?"  they  chorused.      "  'The  Specialist'  — -bound  in 
white  velvet." 

So  everybody  agreed,  and 
that's  how  they  started  talk- 
ing about  Haines.  It  seems 
everybody  knew  something 
about  him — or  something 
he'd  done.  Hollywood's  like 
that.  Everybody  knows  a  lot 
about  everybody  else. 

"ATEAH,"  observed  the 

i-  One  -Who  -Knew-  Him- 
When ;  "that  crack  about  'The 
Specialist '  bound  in  white  vel- 
vet is  pretty  apt.  You  could 
take  Bill  Haines  and  Rabelais 
and  four  mule  drivers  an'  start 
'em  at  scratch,  and  Bill  would 
have  the  rest  blushing  inside 
of  fifteen  seconds!  And  then  he 
goes  to  sleep  on  lace  pillow 
slips  in  a  bedroom  that  would 
make  Clara  Bow's  look  like  a 
fireman's." 

"  Uh-huh,  he's  kind  of  nuts 
on  fancy  furniture  and  an- 
tiques," continued  the  One- 
Who's-Seen-His-House. 
"Y'ever  been  up  at  Bill's 
place?  Say,  he's  got  the 
greatest  collection  of  early 
American  furniture  and  pieces 
that  there  is  in   Hollywood. 

"He  runs  an  antique  shop, 
too,  over  here  in  Hollywood, 
but  everybody  knows  that  by 
this  time.  Makes  money  at  it, 
too.  Got  a  nice  piece  of  change 
out  of  Joan  Crawford  and 
Doug  Fairbanks.  Sold  them 
antiques  to  furnish  their  port- 
able dressing-rooms  with." 

68 


William  Haines  and  his  mother,  Mrs.  George 
Haines.  She's  a  gentle,  white-haired  Virginia 
matron,  and  the  one  great  love  of  Bill's  life — in  spite 
of  all  these  yarns  about  Polly  Moran!  Haines 
swears  he'll  remain  a  happy  bachelor 


"Marie  Dressier  was  at  one  of  his  parties  once,"  explained 
the  One- Who-Knows-Him- Well,  "and  she — who's  traveled  all 
over — said  she'd  never  seen  a  more  perfect  host  and  a  more 
perfectly  appointed  table  than  at  Bill's  party. 

"You  know,  he  sort  of  prides  himself  on  that.  He's  not  like 
other  bachelors — leaving  everything  to  the  servants.  Bill  runs 
his  house  himself,  and  he  is  amazingly  good  at  it.  He  even  sees 
to  his  larder  himself,  just  like  a  housewife,  and  orders  every 
menu  for  every  dinner  he  gives,  instead  of  leaving  it  to  some 
one  else.  And  what  dinners!  Giving  formal  affairs  is  his 
delight." 

WHAT  a  husband  he'd  make,"  sighed  the  Sweet- Young- 
Thing. 
"Not  if  he  ever  knows  it,"  replied  the  One  -Who-Knows-Him. 
"Bill's  a  confirmed  bachelor.    Says  he  has  never  been  in  love 
with  any  girl  yet,  and  doesn't  intend  to." 

"What  about  Polly  Moran?"  asked  the  One-Who-Reads- 
Fan-Magazines. 

"Oh,  that's  a  story.  It  seems  that  Bill  likes  to  star- 
tle people,"  said  the  One- 
Who-Knew-Him-When. 
"Well,  early  in  his  movie  ca- 
reer, a  news  woman  met  him 
on  the  lot  one  day  and  asked 
him  if  he  had  any  news. 
'News?'  echoed  Bill,  'well, 
I  don't  know  if  it's  news  or 
not  but  I'm  gonna  marry 
Polly  Moran.' 

"Bill  said  it  as  a  joke.  But 
the  writer  took  it  seriously — 
and  published  it! 

"Well,  Bill  thought  the 
joke  was  so  good,  he  -con- 
tinued the  gag.  Polly  Moran, 
who's  as  much  of  a  clown  as 
he  is,  helped  him.  Out  of 
that,  a  grand  friendship  grew, 
and  Bill  and  PoDy  are  prob- 
ably Hollywood's  two  best 
friends. 

"TJTE'S  the  despair  of  pho- 

J-  J-tographers.  They  never 
can  get  him  to  pose  quietly. 
Sometimes  they  think  they've 
got  him — and  when  the  plate 
is  developed,  they  find  he's 
making  a  fool  face  or  sticking 
out  his  tongue  or  something 
nutty  like  that.  He  hates  to 
pose  in  full  dress." 

"  Is  he  always  a  wisecrack- 
ing smart-aleck?"  demanded 
the  Girl-Who-Wants-To- 
Know-All. 

"  Moody  as  a  prima  don- 
na," replied  another.  "He 
can  be  as  bubbly  as  cham- 
pagne for  days,  and  then  all 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  108  ] 


■nann^ 


Ruth  Harriet  1-nuU/- 


"1X7ILLIAM  HAINES,  for  year?  the  screen's  favorite  smarty-cat  come' 
v  »    dun.  stands  at  a  crisis  in  his  picture  career.     He  needs  some  good  stones 
as  never  before!    Meanwhile,  on  the  opposite  page,  Harry  Ling  turns  the  spy' 
s  on  this  popular  star 


s 


c  r  ee  n 


Fa  s  h  i 


ons 


y 


ou 


c 


a  n 


hose  are  real  honest-to- 
gosh  gardenias  Dorothy  Jor- 
dan is  wearing  on  the  neck- 
line of  her  georgette  evening 
gown.  A  new  way  to  wear 
flowers  and  a  smart  way,  if 
you  ask  me. 

If  you  wear  artificial  flowers 
instead  of  real  ones,  you're 
still  in  fashion.  And  remem- 
ber this — flowers  help  even 
the  most  beautiful  woman 
look  more  beautiful. 


ear  court  earrings  like 
Karen  Morley  s  if  you  want  to 
look  royal.  But  don't  wear  any 
other  jewelry  at  the  same  time 
or  you'll  look  like  a  jeweler's 
window.  Earrings  are  back  in 
the  fashion  picture — especially 
for  evening 


w 


ear 


Chosen     by     Seymour 


H, 


lere  are  some  of  fashion's  stars  that 
twinkle  on  the  silver  screen.  Not  like 
some  movie  folks — a  star  today  but  only 
an  extra  tomorrow.  These  costume  stars 
irz  going  to  brighten  fashion's  firma- 
ment a  long  time. 

Let  me  tell  you  what's  smart  about  them, 
so  you  can  have  something  quite  like 
them  for  yourself — if  you  want  to. 

It's  exciting,  isn't  it,  to  see  a  costume 
on  your  favorite  movie  star  that  vou 
know  you  can  wear  yourself.  They 
show  you  so  dramatically  how  to  wear 
fashions.  How  to  tilt  a  hat,  wrap  a 
coat,  tie  a  scarf,  or  swish  your  ruffles 
into  a  ballroom  in  the  manner  of  a 
grand  duchess. 

Still  more  exciting,  I  think,  to  know  the 
costume  s  smart — and  why. 


M, 


lay  brides — June  brides — 
any  summer  brides  get  <j  thnll- 
mgly  good  idea  about  bridal 
gowns  from  Jean  Arthur. 

This  one  is  antique  ivory  satin 
(white  is  rare  in  bridal  gowns 
now,  you  know).  The  pro- 
verbial bridal  lace  is  used  in 
yoke  and  sleeves.  An  idea  of 
Vionnet's,  cleverly  adapted. 

Notice  how  the  train  just  seems 
to  flow  naturally  out  of  the 
gown.  It's  all  right  to  wear  a 
train  on  a  wedding  gown — 
vou  wear  it  only  once.  I  call 
this  a  fine  interpretation  of  the 
most  important  of  all  gowns — 
the  bridal  gown. 


I  his  is  a  sports  dress 
you'll  see  often  this  sum- 
mer. Reason:  it's  easy  to 
wear  and  smart  as  can  be. 

Lita  Chevret  looks  good  in 
it — you  will,  too.  Gaily 
striped,  sash  tied,  it  has 
shoulder-covering  sleeves 
— a  fashion  winner! 


SEYMOUR  PICKS 
THESE  FASHIONS 
FOR  SPORTS  WEAR 


\_>/ne   of   my    tavor- 
ites  of  all  summer  hats 
This   new   elegant 
sailor  is  a  favorite  of 
Laura  La  Plante's,  too. 

Linen-like  straw — low 
shallow  crown — brim 
not  too  wide — stiff- 
ened edge  bound  so 
it  stays  away  from  your 
face — as  a  good  sailor 
should. 


F  d  s  h 


i  o  n 


H 


e  a 


iners 


o  r 


Aft 


c  r  n  o  o  n 


w 


e  a  r 


L 


anvin  has  made  herself  and  Paris  fa- 
mous for  fashions  by  designing  perfectly 
swell  dresses  like  this  one  Tallulah  Bank- 
head  is  wean 

It's  blue  crepe  with  a  flattering  scarf  col- 
lar and  even  more  flattering  drapery  lines 


G 


larden-pnnted  chiffon  is  fashion-hne 
for  afternoon  bridges  and  garden  parties, 
says  Leila  Hyams  and  I — and  millions  of 
others  who  know. 

Note  its  deep  bertha  with  scallopea 
edge.  Ankle  length — right  for  this  kind 
of  dress.   Good  hat,  too. 


A 


gorgeous  girl  Carole  Lombard 
A  gorgeous  dress — this  beige  crepe  roma 
creation.  The  fox  trimming  on  the  three- 
quarter  sleeves  is  an  especially  good 
fashion  point.  Her  gloves  are  long 
enough  to  meet  the  short  sleeves,  another 
fashion  point. 


A< 


advice: 
dress. 


lave   at    least  one  lace  dinner 


This  one  worn  by  Eleanor  Boardman  is  wear- 
able by  many.  You'll  look  especially  at- 
tractive in  it  if  you  re  the  feminine  type — 
like  Eleanor.  If  you're  tired  of  black — good 
news — wear  brown,  as  she  does,  and  still 
be  in  fashion. 

Good  jewelry  here — sparkling  crystals.  Too 
bad  the  frock  is  so  long — it  should  just  miss 
the  floor. 


D 


orothy  Jordan   is  just  the  right  type  for 
this  soft  little  dance  frock  shown  at  the  left. 

Let's  give  it  a  fashion  test.  Has  it  the  smart 
Empress  Eugenie  drop  shoulders?  Check, 
it  has.  Is  it  ruffled?  Right,  it  is.  Is  it  white? 
Yes,  ma'am.  Made  of  fashionable  chiffon? 
Righto.  And  does  it  just  miss  the  floor?  It 
doesn't  touch  it. 

100  per  cent  for  Dorothy.  Congratulations 
on  a  perfect  fashion  score. 


M 


Lvdlyn  Knapp  scores 
as  a  fashion  picker 
again.  This  collarless 
suit  of  hers  is  certainly 
a  wow.  Lightweight 
wool  in  woodland 
green — good.  The 
jersey  blouse  is  in 
three  colors  —  good. 
She  s  wearing  mesh 
hose  —  good.  Those 
alligator  oxfords  dre 
good.  But  say,  Evalyn, 
a  scarf  would  have 
made  this  outfit  slicker. 


The  tricorne  is  a  military-looking 
hat — good  fashion  alone — better 
fashion  when  worn  with  a  suit  like 
this  one  June  MacCloy  wears  so 
we  I 

Blue  and  white.  The  oxfords,  mesh 
stockings  and  white  gloves  com- 
plete the  cast  of  this  perfect  fashion 
picture. 


L 


-oretta  Young  shows  good  judc 
ment,   I   think,  in  framing   her  prett> 
face    with    this    soft    knitted    straw 
turban 

Good,  too,  because  of  its  two 
colors  -tan  and  brown.  I  like  the 
pert  ornament  over  the  left  eye 
don't  you7 


/ 


f 


V 


v 


DOES  she  look  like  a  woman  peering  over  the  brink  of  forty — this  vivid 
girl  who  has  loomed  large  on  the  American  screen  for  over  twenty 
years?  Mary  Pickford  comes  to  the  critical  age.  Now  read,  on  the  opposite 
page,  how  gallantly  she  faces  it! 


As  M  a  ry  E 


nces 


Forty 


\cw  s   in    w  !ii>  li 
Foi  to  grow 


M\K\  PICK!  ORD  has  decided 
to  .m  i  epl  maturity  gracefully 
even  to  grow  old  in  the  same 
manner! 
There  is  news  in  this  simple  statement 
every  woman  in  the  world  should  be  interested. 
old  gracefully  is  a  difficult  thing. 

:i  h.is  been  written  recently  about    Mary's  individual 

problem  Muih  more  has  l>eeii  sai<l  in  Hollywood  about 
Mary's  frantic  clutching  for  the  youth  which  is  slipping  from 
her.  She  is  face  to  face  with  forty!  People  have  said  thai  Mary 
would  not  face  it.    They  are  mistaken. 

A  year  and  a  half  ago  they  would  have  been  correct  Al- 
though I  could  have  written  then  that  Mary  I'ii  kford  was 
frightened,  1  refrained  because  1  was  waiting  to  see  who 
would  win  the  battle     Mary  Pickford  or  Gladys  Smith. 

Gladys  Smith,  the  little  Irish  minx  who  was  carried  onto  a 
Montreal  stage  as  a  child  to  help  make  money  enough  to  bury 
her  father,  would  not  have  worried  when  she  had  reached  that 
beyond-thirty  five  period.  She  would  have  handled  the 
problem  with  the  same  astuteness  and  indomitable  courage  as 
she  handled  the  necessity  of  making  money. 

Mary  Pickford,  the  "Queen"  of  a  very  real  Kingdom,  had 
a  much  more  complicated 
problem.  Queen  Marie  of 
Roumania  has  struggled 
many  years  with  the  same 
battie. 

"I  will  not  give  up  making 
pictures!  Why  should  I?  1 
am  young.  The  public  still 
wants  me. 

■There  is  no  trouble  be- 
tween Douglas  and  me.  We 
arc  devoted,  as  much  in  love 
with  each  other  as  ever. 

"If  mother  had  only  lived!" 
(The  mother  whose  influence 
had  helped  to  raise  the  Queen 
to  her  tti rone.) 


By    Ruth    Hi  cry 


THESE  are  some   of   the 
statements   Mary   Pick- 
ford made  me  eighteen  months 

ago  across  the  luncheon  table 
at  Pickfair.  1  did  not  believe 
them,  but  I  remained  silent 
because  of  the  eyes  of  the 
woman  who  said  them.  They 
were  the  most  unhappy  eyes 
one  could  imagine.  Tears 
came  to  them  frequently. 
She  spent  three  hours 
describing  the  homage  she, 
with  Douglas,  had  received 
in   the  Orient. 

She  emphasized  how  the 
women  had  stooped  to  kiss 
her  boots;  she  unpacked  boxes 
of  presents  to  show  me  what 
the  followers  had  heaped  upon 
her.  It  was  Mary,  the  Queen, 
speaking.  And  Mary  the 
Queen  could  not  or  would  not 
admit  that  her  day  of   youthful  rule  was  nearing  the  end. 

Only  once  did  Gladys  Smith  peep  momentarily  through  that 
heavy  silken  curtain  which  the  Queen  had  so  carefully  drawn 
about  her.  But  those  all-too-few  glimpses  showed  me  that  a 
battle  was  raging.  A  battle  between  the  fundamental  woman 
and  the  artificial  one  Hollywood  had  made. 

Recently,  I  spent  two  hours  with  Mary  Pickford  in  her 
studio  bungalow.  Here  are  some  of  the  things  Gladys  Smith 
told  me  during  that  period: 


In  This   Amazingly   Frank 
Interview  Mary  Pickford  says: 


"l  cannot  deny  that  there  may  He  a 
separation.  I  can  only  say  there  is 
none  now.  Just  a  vacation  for  Douglas. 


"1  have  never  heen  a  happy  woman. 
For  the  first  time  1  am  learning  about 
contentment. 


"1   hope   to   make   another   picture, 
but  1  may  never  make  it. 


"1  am  adding  a  codicil  to  my  will. 
It  says  that  when  1  go,  my  films  go 
with  me.  They  are  to  be  destroyed. 
1  pleased  mv  own  generation.  That 
is  all  that  matters. 


'  I  hope  to  make  another  pil  ture.  but 
I  may  never  make  it.  Certainly,  I  will 
never  make  another  bad  [ii<  ture.  If  the 
riejit    storv    torn.  iv,    the    right 

director,  I  will  do  it.    01  course,  I  have  to  fulfill  my  contract 

with  United  Artist-,,  which  calls  for  one  more.     I  am  speaking 

of  beyond  that  period. 
"A  spirit  stronger  than  myself  has  always  whipped  me  to 

action.      It   was  a->  though  some  outside  ;  bed  me  from 

one  step   to  another;  one   picture   to  another.      'J  lie  urge  isn't 
marly  so  definite  us  it  used  to  be. 

"T  AM  having  such  a  good  time  playing."    Her  eyes  twinkled. 
JL"1  feel  as  though  1  were  playing  hooky.  Weren't  your  best 
school  days  the  one-,  on  which  you  played  hooky?    I  am  getting 
into  the  habit  of  loafing.     I  love  it.     I  am  really  afraid  no 
the  day  when  my  fiery  8  will  catch  me  moping  and  whip 

me  again  into  a<  tion.     I  used  to  be  afraid  they  wouldn't. 

'I  have  never  been  a  happy  woman.  It  is  not  my  nature. 
For  the  first  time  I  am  learning  about  contentment. 

"If  I  never  had  another  kind  thing  said  about  me  while  I 
live,  I  would  still  say  I  have  been  blessed  all  the  way.  Nobody 
has  had  a  more  remarkable  career.     No  one  has  more  lovely 

things  to  remember. 

I  am  actually  tryir 
hide  as  long  as  I  can.  I  al- 
most went  back  onto  the 
stage  when  I  was  in  New- 
York.  Those  Irish  ancestor-, 
almost  had  me.  I  was  afrai  1 
I  was  going  to  break  out  into 
self  pity  and  go  to  work.  I 
didn't.' 

"I  understand  about 
Mother  now.  (Gladys  Smith 
pronounces  that  word  with  a 
capital  letter.  1  It  was  right. 
It  is  all  a  matter  of  philosophy. 
All  life  is  a  matter  of  correct 
thinking.  It  isn't  so  much 
what  you  do.  It's  the  inside 
that  counts.  I  am  putting  up 
a  little  white  fence  around 
my  inner  self.  I  want  to  keep 
people  from  tramping  on  that; 
it  doesn't  make  much  differ- 
ence what  they  say  about 
Mary  Pickford. 


"I  haven't  half  as  much  monev  .1* 
people  credit  to  me. 

"I  still  shake  all  over  when  I  am 
in  the  presence  of  Gloria  Swanson." 


I 


AM  adding  a  codicil  to 
my  will.  It  says  that  when 
I  go,  my  fdms  go  with  me. 
They  are  to  be  destroyed. 
I  am  buying  all  my  old  films 
for  this  purpose.  I  would 
rather  be  a  beautiful  illusion 
in  the  minds  of  people  than  a 
horrible  example  on  celluloid. 
I  pleased  my  own  generation. 
That  is  all  that  matters. 

'Pictures  have  progn 
My  pictures  will  soon  be  old- 
fashioned.     My  old  pictures 
are  already  old-fashioned.    It 
is  marvelous  for  me  to  remember  'Daddy  Long  Legs.'    I  do  not 
want  to  see  it.    I  am  more  happy  in  the  memory  of  it  than  I  was 
during  the  success  of  it. 

"Douglas?"  She  smiled.  "If  I  had  a  girl  I  would  not  spank 
her.  I  would  spank  a  boy.  Boys  need  punishment.  A  man 
feels  he  must  go  on  a  trip  and  suffer  physical  discomforts.  He 
likes  going  unshaven.  A  woman  must  have  a  nice,  warm  bath. 
"I  couldn't  imagine  myself  trekking  six  days — three  on  an 
elephant  and  three  on  a  donkey —  [  please  turx  to  page  106  ] 

67 


Y 


O  U 


w 


a  n  t   a 


WANT  a  job  in  pictures? 
Wait— don't  rush  out 
here !  It's  a  hypothetical 
question  I'm  asking. 

Well,  what  sort  of  a  job?    Acting? 

Oh  please!  You've  been  told  for  twenty  years  how  tough  it 
is  to  crash  the  golden  gates  of  Hollywood. 

The  acting  division  is  a  small  part  of  the  mighty  army  that 
makes  our  talkies.  There  are  about  6,000  actors  charging  up 
and  down  the  studios — and  some  of  those  are  more  hopeful 
than  successful. 

But  between  ninety  and  a  hundred  thousand  men  and 
women  labor  in  the  motion  picture  colony — doing  even-thing 
from  running  the  whole  shebang  to  sweeping  out. 

Their  jobs  are  tremendously  varied,  and  some  of  them  are 
interesting  and  -well  paid.  What  would  you  like  to  be?  For 
instance,  on  the  J  regular  weekly  pay- 
roll at  Fox  are  775  persons — of  which 
fifty-four  are  actors  under  contract.  The 
rest  are  the  butchers,  bakers  and  candle- 
t.tick-makers  of  the  film  world. 

Naturally,  this  isn't  the  full  Fox  man- 
power. 

Thousands  are  hired  on  a  daily  or 
weekly  basis. 

I  wanted  to  find  out  what  Hollywood 
thinks  of  its  job.  I  talked  to  representa- 
tive people  in  nearly  every  department  of 
the  business — asking  them  what  their 
work  entails,  how  they  happened  to  go 
into  it,  how  they  like  it  and  what  they 
think  of  it  as  a  choice  for  other  young 
men  and  women. 

And  here  are  the  answers — the  first 
comprehensive  survey  ever  made  of  the 
myriad  jobs  of  the  movies! 


Did  you  think  the  Hollywood  studio  offices 
were  more  glamorous  than  yours?  A  corner 
of  the  script  department  at  M-G-M,  where 
typists  prepare  scenarios.  Edith  Farrell,  its 
head,  is  the  smiling  lady 


A  CTING:  After  talking  with  a  dozen 
•**-prominent  members  of  this  most- 
talked-about  branch,  no  one  was  found 
who  would  take  the  responsibility  of 
advising  others  to  try  it!     They  have 

OS 


For  forty  years  she's  taken  care  of 
theatrical  clothes!  This  is  "Mother" 
Coulter,  now  in  charge  of  the  period 
costume  department  at  the  Metro- 
Goldwyn-Mayer  studios 


entered  it  from  almost  as  many 
different  avenues  as  there  are  people 
in  it.  Betty  Compson  from  fiddling, 
Corinne  Griffith  from  a  beauty  con- 
test,   Billie   Dove,   Joan    Crawford, 

Lilyan  Tashman  and  many  others  from  Broadway  choruses. 

Lew  Ayres  came  from  a  Los  Angeles  orchestra. 

ACTING  is  too  uncertain.  The  chances  are  one  in  ten 
thousand.  If  you  win  today,  you  may  lose  tomorrow. 
The  money  is  large,  but  not  steady.  You  can  starve  more 
easily  than  you  can  succeed.  The  hours  are  ungodly,  the  trials 
almost  unsurmountable,  the  heartaches  inevitable." 

They  all  said  the  same,  yet  all  admitted  that  once  in  it,  they 
would  not  go  to  another  profession.  One  example  shows  what 
they  mean.  Ruth  Chatterton  had  many  years  of  stage  ex- 
perience, yet  she  went  to  her  last  eight 
dollars  in  Hollywood  with  no  work  in 
sight.  A  loan  enabled  her  to  continue  the 
gamble.    She  won. 

The  salaries  vary.  Extras  get  $7.50  a 
day.  And  the  girl  who  has  become  a  star 
from  an  extra  is  the  eternal  myth  of  the 
business!  Bit  players  receive  from  $10.00 
to  $50.00  a  day,  and  specialists  more. 
Contract  players  draw  from  S75.00  a  week 
to  eight  and  ten  thousand. 

"And  remember,"  Betty  Compson  told 
us,  *'it  takes  an  actress  of  any  standing  at 
all  the  better  part  of  $9,000  a  month  to 
live  in  the  strictest  economy,  because  of 
the  demands  made  upon  her." 


T^IRECTIXG:  E.  H.  Griffith  made 
*-S"  Holiday,"  one  of  1930's  most  suc- 
cessful productions.     He  says: 

"I  came  via  newspaper  reporting,  with 
Monta  Bell  and  others.  My  ambition 
was  to  be  a  great  writer.  It  still  is.  I  am 
using  directing  to  help  toward  that  end. 
Where  can  I  learn  more  about  story 
construction? 


Job  in  the  Studios? 


By 

'Jeanne  North 

Here  is  the  only 
thorough  and  re- 
liable article  ever 
printed  about  all 
classes  of  employ- 
ment in  the  picture 
studios! 


"Acton  seldom  make  good  directors.  Those  who  have  been 
actors  will  admit  they  were  bad  ones.  An  actor  must  con- 
centrate on  one  role;  a  director  must  differentiate  among 
many. 

"Writing  is  good  preparation  for  directing.  Travel  is  the  best 
possible  training.  I  should  advise  a  young  man  to  leave  school 
early,  if  necessary,  to  get  in  his  travel. 

"My  advice  to  young  boys  with  ambitions  to  direct  is: 
don't.  If  a  boy  has  the  ability,  intelligence,  perseverance, 
ambition  and  determination  to  be  a  good  director,  he  can  make 
far  more  out  of  life  in  business. 

'Make  two  or  three  good  pictures  and  you  are  on  the  top; 
make  two  or  three  bad  ones  and  you  are  in  the  gutter. 

"We  have  no  home  life.  We  eat  from  a  counter  more  often 
than  we  do  from  a  table.  We  have  no  time  for  vacations 
because  we  are  working  on  stories  between  pictures." 

A  twinkle  entered  his  eye.    "However,  if  young  men  pay  any 
attention    to   me,    they    won't 
make  good  on  any  job — they'll 
be  too  discouraged.    The  acid 
test  is: 

•'Are   you    easily    d  i  s  - 
couraged?" 


SCEXARIO  Writing:  Fran- 
ces Marion  began  as  a  news- 
paper  reporter   at   seventeen. 

She  sold  her  first  story  of 
importance,  "The  Foundling," 
to  Mary  Pickford,  sixteen 
years  ago. 

Alan  Dwan,  the  director, 
said:  "I  will  pay  you  $250  for 
it  if  you  will  write  the  conti- 
nuity, help  with  the  wardrobe, 
act  as  press-agent  for  the  pro- 
duction and  help  with  the  cut- 
ting." 

A  few  years  later  she  was  the 
first  woman  to  receive  $1,000 
a  week  for  her  work.  June 
Mathis  learned  of  it  and  in- 
sisted upon  the  same  salary. 


Newspaper  experience 
and  contacts  got  pretty 
Eleanor  Packer  a  good 
job  in  the  publicity  de- 
partment at  M-G-M 


The  make-up  departments  of  the  studios  offer  chances  to 

beauty  shop  operators.     Erne   Westmore,  head  of  the 

shop  at  Radio  Pictures,  supervises  work  on  Irene  Dunne, 

/amous  as  Sabra  in  "Cimarron" 


TODAY.  Miss  Marion  makes  around  $100,000  a  year,  the 
■around"  depending  upon  whether  she  is  under  salary  or 
selling  originals.  She  is  the  highest  paid  woman  in  her  line  and 
ranks  among  the  three  highest  of  either  men  or  women. 

"Newspaper  reporting,  by  all  means,  for  training.  This 
means  contacts  with  life.  A  good  way  to  start  in  a  studio  is 
as  script  girl,  and  since  they  are  usually  hired  from  the  steno- 
graphic force,  stenography  makes  an  excellent  preparation. 

"Experience  as  a  cutter  is  invaluable  as  it  is  a  sure  way  of 
learning  to  know  your  film. 

"It  is  strange,  but  when  you  are  climbing  the  ladder  it  is  fun. 
The  fight  up  brings  the  greatest  happiness.    I  don't  know  what 

I  would  ha%-e  done  if  it  hadn't 
been  for  the  talkies.  They  were 
new;  we  had  to  fight  all  over 
again.  The  way  I  fought  to 
prove  I  could  write  dialogue! 
And  during  the  day  of  musi- 
cals I  re-studied  music,  took 
lessons  again. 

"Now.  I  am  taking  Spanish 
lessons  for  foreign  versions. 

"As  long  as  there  is  some- 
thing to  fight  for,  it  is  fasci- 
nating. 

"Opportunities?  Of  course, 
there  are  opportunities.  Studios 
need  good  stories  more  than 
they  need  anything  else.  Any- 
one who  has  ideas  and  is  willing 
to  work  all  hours  and  think  of 
nothing  but  work,  can  succeed. 
I  never  go  to  parties.  During 
the  filming  of  'The  Big  House' 
when  I  wasn't  on  the  set,  I 
was  in  the  projection  room 
seeing  rushes  or  in  the  cutting 
room  helping  the  cutter. 

69 


Betty  Roberts  is  a  big 
shot  at  Radio  Pictures. 
As  head  of  the  scenario 
department,  she  knows 
all  the  answers 


Do  These  Hollywood  Jobs  Look 
More  Thrilling  Than  Yours? 


"The  trouble  with  so  many  girls  and 
men  is  they  won't  work!" 

A  woman  heads  the  scenario  and 
reading  departments  at  Radio  Pictures. 
Incidentally,  Berry  Roberts  is  a  real 
power  in  that  organization. 

Her  position  is  really  a  self-created  one.  She  has  charge  of 
the  stenographers  and  the  readers,  and  helps  in  the  selection 
of  scenario  writers.  She  selects  stories  for  the  supervisors  and 
directors,  contact  agents,  outside  writers,  advises  on  the  final 
cutting  of  pictures.  She  commenced  as  a  secretary  but  always 
found  reasons  for  staying  late  and  arriving  early.  She  says,  "I 
have  gone  up  because  I  made  my- 
self useful  to  so  many  people — 
made  them  learn  to  depend 
upon  me." 

She  hires  numerous  people  and 
admits  to  a  real  difficulty  in  find- 
ing efficient  ones.  "We  want 
readers  who  can  write  a  clear 
synopsis,  secretaries  who  are  real 
helpers  and  have  initiative.  Any- 
one can  make  a  place  for  himself 
or  herself  in  a  studio,  who  is  will- 
ing to  work."  She  pays  from  $25 
a  week  to  SI 00  for  good  readers, 
secretaries  and  assistants. 


THE  Paramount  reading  and 
scenario  department  complains 
of  the  same  difficulty.  Irene  Francis 
heads  the  readers  under  the  super- 
vision of  Edward  Montagne  and 
his  assistant,  David  Lewis.  Lewis 
is  a  young  chap  who  reached  the 
executive  field  via  stage  acting. 
He  ran  away  from  school  to  try 
the  footlights,  had  several  suc- 
cesses, lost  his  voice,  went  to  his 
last  five  cent  piece,  secured  read- 
ing to  do  at  home  for  Paramount. 
(Ann  Harding  followed  the  same 
course.)  He  came  to  Hollywood 
as  assistant  to  a  supervisor.  The 
supervisor  went  out;  Lewis  was 

70 


Is  this  a  job?  Erne  Westmore,  chief  make- 
up expert  on  the  Radio  Pictures  lot,  devotes 
some  personal  attention  to  the  task  of 
teaching  Pearl  Eaton's  chorus  girls  to  fix 
their  faces 


One  of  the  most  delicate  jobs  in  pictures — 
cutting  the  finished  film.  There  are  many 
excellent  cutters  among  Hollywood's  girls. 
One  of  them  is  Blanche  Sewell,  a  real 
expert  at  M-G-M 


shunted  back  to  the  reading  depart- 
ment where  he  worked  up  to  assistant 
to  Montagne. 

The  reading  department  should  offer 
splendid  opportunity,  but  few  people  in 
it  have  the  ambition  to  get  out  of  it. 
They  don't  work  hard  enough.  To  get  ahead  in  a  studio  you 
must  dedicate  your  life  to  it.  Marion  Dix,  Charles  Furthman, 
Dorothy  Arzner,  Ann  Harding  have  been  readers.  Most  of 
our  people  come  from  colleges. 

A    complete    stranger    begins    as    low   as    $25;   good 
readers  get  from  $60  to  $100.     Enid  Hubbard  is  Paramount's 

best  West-Coast  reader.  She 
writes  synopses  so  well  that  stories 
have  been  purchased  because  the 
synopses  were  better  than  the  origi- 
nal. 


IN  the  Paramount  scenario  de- 
partment is  Virginia  Kellogg, 
formerly  press-agent  for  Fred 
Niblo.  When  Niblo  left  Metro 
she  visited  me.  "I  am  going  to 
get  into  scenario  work  or  die," 
she  stated.  It  is  that  do-or-die 
spirit  which  wins.  Although  she 
is  just  a  beginner,  she  has  already 
had  two  original  stories  accepted 
by  the  studio  where  she  landed. 

A  script  girl  must  be  a  stenog- 
rapher, so  ninety  per  cent  of  them 
have  secured  their  jobs  via  this 
route.  Catherine  Hunter,  for 
years  with  First  National  and 
now  "freelancing,"  was  a  stenog- 
rapher in  Wall  Street.  Doris 
Kenyon,  a  personal  friend,  placed 
her  as  a  secretary  in  the  First 
National  Studio.  Then  scripting. 
"We  must  know  each  detail  of 
a  picture.  If  the  star  carries  a 
glove  in  the  left  hand  on  the  first 
day  of  shooting,  and  there  is  a 
re-take  of  the  shot  on  the  last  day, 
[please   turn  to  page  116] 


This  is  DO  attempt  to  glorify 
an  actor  who  has  passed  on. 
It  is  the  truth,  every  word  of 
it.  Louis  Wolheim  was  one 
of  the  finest  and  most  gener- 
ous souls  I  have  ever  know  n 

J.  R.  Q. 


Th 


Y\ard-r>oiled  Samaritan 


HAROLD  LOCKWOOD,  Wallace  Rcid,  Barbara  La 
M.irr,  Rudolph  Valentino,  Mabel  Xormand,  Dustin 
I'arnum,  Rudolph  Schildkraut,  Alma  Rubens,  Milton 
Sills,  Lon  Chaney. 

Now  we  add  the  name  of  Louis  Wol/tcim. 

Each  time  there  has  been  a  death,  those  on  the  lot  where  the 
star  worked  have  created  a  fund  for  floral  offerings.  Louis 
Wolheim  made  most  of  his  recent  hlms  for  Radio  Pictures. 
Co-workers  there  followed  the  custom;  collected  the  money. 
But  when  the  question  of  flowers  arose,  the  objections  were 
unanimous. 

"Louis  wouldn't  have  wanted  flowers.  He  wouldn't  have 
wished  us  to  spend  monev  that  way.  He  would  have  cussed  at 
us!" 

The  money  was  given  to  a  fund  to  feed  the  hungry. 

Miles  Connolly,  Radio  producer  and  closest  friend  of 
Wolheim,  says,  "Ours  was  a  double  tribute  because  it  is  the 
tribute  Louis  would  have  wanted." 

His  co-workers  had  many  memories  to  encourage  them  to 
such  an  action.  They  already  knew  what  the  proprietor  of  a 
fashionable  restaurant  told  us,  recently:  '*  You  have  no  idea 
how  many  people  will  go  hungry  since  Wolheim  has  gone.  He 
paid  the  checks  for  large  numbers  here  each  day."' 

While  he  was  working  on  "The  Silver  Horde."  he  noticed  an 
extra  man  whose  eyes  were  inflamed.  "What  the  H  — "  he 
demanded.  The  next  day,  the  extra  man  was  in  the  hospital 
with  a  great  eye  surgeon  averting  blindr. 

His  use  of  harsh  language  was  only  comparable  to  that  of 
John  Barrymore;  his  generosity  to  that  of  Marion  Davies. 

He  was  under  contract  to  Howard  Hughes  at  SI, 500  weekly, 
but  had  an  arrangement  that  he  should  receive  all  moneys 


above  that  amount  when  he  was  loaned  to  other  companies. 
For  several  years  he  had  received  S3, 500 — since  his  first  sensa- 
tional success  in  "Two  Arabian  Nights." 

Yet,  Mrs.  Wolheim  is  far  from  a  wealthy  woman.  Friends 
doubt  whether  she  has  enough  for  real  comfort.  The  money 
went  to  the  poor  of  her  husband's  profession. 

He  was  considered  a  "Red"'  by  members  of  his  profession. 
Miles  Connolly  says  of  that:  "His  so-called  radical  tendencies 
came  from  his  terrific  desire  to  help  the  unfortunate,  the  poor 
and  the  suffering.  He  had  a  passion  to  make  the  world  better. 
He  believed  no  one  should  get  more  from  life  than  he  gave  to  it. 
If  business  men  made  a  profit  greater  than  the  energy  invested, 
he  felt  these  profits  made  millions  unnecessarily  poorer.  He 
could  never  understand  why  some  should  wear  rich  furs  and 
others  starve. 

"T  "PS  hard-boiled  face  was  a  mask;  he  was  a  child  who  never 
JL  i-knew  quite  what  it  was  all  about.  I  think  he  felt  he 
would  live  to  help  a  great  world-change  for  the  better." 

When  he  was  given  his  last  role  in  John  Gilbert's  "Gentle- 
man's Fate,''  he  was  assigned  the  dressing-room  that  was  once 
Lon  Chaney 's.  Being  superstitious,  he  refused  to  take  it  and 
occupied  the  one  next  door! 

You  have  read  of  his  college  degrees  (Cornell*,  of  his  love  of 
anything  mathematical,  from  bridge  to  musical  composers  such 
as  Bach.  Of  his  insatiable  search  for  knowledge.  He  was  one 
of  the  really  brilliant  intellects  of  the  industry. 

I  think  that  Wolheim's  character  is  best  illustrated  by  a  story 
of  his  location  days  in  "  Danger  Lights."  Miles  City,  Montana, 
is  granted  to  be  one  of  the  country's  roughest  centers.  The 
cowboy  and  overall  millionaires    [  please  tcrn  to  page  137  J 

71 


Garbo's  idea  of  style  is  to  be 
comfortable.  Yet  her  plain  be- 
ret became  the  byword  for  fem- 
inine chic.  And  now  her  vaga- 
bond felts  threaten  to  rival  the 
beret's  popularity 


Kay  Francis  likes  hats  that  fol- 
low the  lines  of  her  shapel^ 
head.  The  secret  of  a  small 
hat's  smartness  is  in  the  way 
it's  worn.  And  how  that  Fran- 
cis girl  wears  'em! 


/^LOTHESl 

Habits  of 
Hollywood 


Bob  Montgom- 
ery's off-screen 
clothes  are,  to 
say  the  least,  in- 
formal. Instead 
of  collar  and  tie, 
an  old  yellow 
scarf  dangles 
around  his  neck 


HOLLYWOOD  has  a  lot  of  claims  to  note  and  notoriety. 
Its  sky  is  the  bluest,  its  sunshine  the  brightest,  its 
art-business  the  maddest  and  its  liquor  the  worst  in 
all  creation. 

Yes,  and  its  inhabitants  have  the  oddest,  quaintest  dress 
habits,  devices  and  vices  of  any  group  of  men,  women  and 
children  under  Heaven. 

True,  Broadway  claims  this  distinction  (?)  for  its  people, 
but  I  propose  to  show  that  Broadway  is  a  piker  in  this  regard. 

Read  on,  then,  and  discover  the  clothes  tricks,  conceits  and 
habits  that  give  Hollywood  the  color  and  excitement  of  a  three- 
ring  circus. 

Jack  Oakie's  day-in-and-day-out  costume  is  patent  leather 
shoes,  the  sweat  shirt  and  flannel  trousers!  No  hat.  Always 
the  same — whether  he  is  on  Hollywood  Boulevard,  the  tennis 
court  or  at  the  Paramount  Studio. 

Josef  Yon  Sternberg,  the  discoverer  of  Marlene  Dietrich, 
always  wears  a  belted  coat  which  makes  him  look  shorter.  He 
wears  no  hat.     But  he  always  carries  a  cane. 

Ivan  Lebedeff  wears  an  equally  weird  combination.  Spats, 
morning  coat,  striped  trousers.     And,  no  hat. 

Remember  Lon  Chaney's  caps?  One  gray,  one  brown.  The 
gray  for  blue  and  light  suits.  The  brown  for  all  others.  Xo 
one  in  Hollywood  can  recall  ever  seeing  Lon  Chaney  in  a  hat. 


By    Ruth    Biery 


Clive  Brook's  wife  is  progressing  a  little  in  her  fight  against 
her  husband's  cap  habit.  Clive  Brook  is  really  one  of  our  best 
dressed  men,  you  know.  He  would  never  think  of  wearing  a 
suit  twice  without  its  being  pressed.  But  he  loves  caps  and  for 
years  has  worn  them — pulled  far  down  over  the  left  eye. 

Mrs.  Brook  used  to  insist  upon  a  hat  when  he  went  to  town  to 
see  his  lawyer.  Now,  she  must  be  insisting  more  often  because 
Clive  does  wear  a  hat,  frequently,  although  we  understand 
he  always  carries  a  cap  so  he  can  wear  it  if  the  desire  becomes  too 
compelling. 

WHEN  it  comes  to  the  hat  habits  of  the  ladies,  we  run  into 
secrets,  my  dears,  real  secrets.  For  instance,  Ann  Harding 
and  Jetta  Goudal.  You  know  Ann's  hair.  Well,  there's  so 
much  of  it  that  when  it's  coiled  on  her  neck,  in  the  established 
Harding  fashion,  there's  not  a  hat  in  the  country  big  enough 
to  cover  it.  So  Ann  has  her  hats  made — not  according  to 
style,  but  according  to  the  size  of  knob  they  must  cover.  The 
result  is  that  Ann  Harding  frequently  looks  like  one  of  your 
country  cousins  whom  you'd  hesitate  about  asking  to  visit 
you  in  the  city. 

Ann  isn't  any  too  careful  about  clothes,  anyway,  and  by  the 
time  she's  pulled  a  hat  down  over  that  glorious  yellow  bundle 
on  the  back  of  her  neck,  whatever  shape  the  designer  intended 
for  the  front  is  pretty  well  forgotten. 

As  for  Jetta  Goudal.    Her  idea  is  to  have  hats  which  rest  on  \ 


t^^m 


Fitting  this  heavy  knot  of  hair 
into  a  modern  hat  is  like  put- 
ting the  proverbial  square  peg 
into  a  round  hole.  It  can't  In- 
done!  So  Ann  Harding  buys 
hats  to  fit  the  hair 


Dick  Barthelmess  and  his 
"topper"  are  familiar  Holly- 
wood sights.  He's  apt  to  wear 
it  on  the  most  informal  occa- 
sions. Dick  is  heavy  set,  and 
not  so  tall,  which  may  explain  it 


Bizarre,  quaint  or  com- 
monplace— every  star  has 
a  sartorial  stunt  or  two 
that's  almost  a  trade-mark 


top  of  the  knot  so  that  she  may  avoid  the  tribulations  which 
beset  Miss  Harding.  But  this  system  has  difficulties,  too.  At 
Howard  Greer's  tea,  the  other  day,  the  little  contraption 
perked  on  that  twist  looked  for  all  the  world  like  the  old  family- 
skillet.  Incidentally,  the  black  band  which  so  often  encircles 
Miss  Goudal's  neck  is  pinned,  in  the  rear,  to  the  hair-knot. 
Jetta  has  often  been  described  as  "high-hat."  Really,  she 
isn't.  I  have  wondered  if  the  difficulties  of  bending  her  head 
or  turning  it  from  one  side  to  another  with  the  weight  of  that 
knot  and  the  strain  of  the  back  ribbon  tied  to  it,  have  not  given 
the  world  that  high-hat,  unbending  opinion  of  Jetta.  Inci- 
dentally, Jetta  is  the  girl  who  wears  her  evening  corsages  of 
orchids  or  gardenias  wound  around  her  bare  arm — in  serpentine 
fashion. 

NORMA  SH EARER  goes  in  for  very  small  hats,  close  fitting, 
molded  to  her  head  almost  as  a  kid  glove  is  fitted.  She  fre- 
quently wears  double-pearled  earrings  with  them — just  two 
little  pearls  that  fit  as  closely  to  the  ear-lobe  as  the  hat  does  to 
the  head.  And  the  next  time  you  see  Norma  in  sports  or  street 
clothes,  notice  her  beads.  Made  to  order  for  each  costume. 
She  designs  them.  For  one  lavender  sport  costume,  she  used 
heavy  buttons  which  she  had  dyed  to  the  right  color  and  strung 
with  a  tiny  white  bead  between  each.  In  the  evening  you 
will  find  her  wearing  three  bracelets.  Red,  white  and  blue. 
Sapphires,  rubies,  diamonds.  The  only  formal  jewelry  she 
desires. 

Kay  Francis  is  another  who  makes  a  fetish  of  small  hats. 

Of  course,  Clara  Bow  spurns  hats — another  charter  member 
of  Hollywood's  non-hat  fraternity.  In  the  daytime  she  wears 
sports  pajamas.  Rides  to  the  studio  in  them;  prances  around 
the  lot  in  them.  She  does  keep  a  street  dress  in  her  dressing- 
room  so  she  can  change  if  she  goes  to  the  Boulevard  between 
shots  or  at  luncheon.  But  she  longs  for  the  day  when  women 
will  wear  pajamas  even  for  shopping.  During  the  summer  she 
even  ventures  forth  on  the  thoroughfares  in  them. 

Clara  wears  high  heels  except  in  some  of  her  picture  roles. 
It  doesn't  make  any  difference  whether  she's  in  evening  gowns 
or  pajamas — she  trips  along  at  the  same  dangerous  height. 


Hollywood  calls 
these  Bowjamas. 
Clara  wears  sports 
ones  for  daytime, 
hostess  ones  for 
entertaining,  and 
bedtime  ones  for 
bedtime .  She 
keeps  a  dress 
handy  just  for 
shopping 


We  saw  her  one  day  at  a  football  game  in  sports  clothes  and 
red  satin  high-heeled  slippers.  She  goes  to  reds,  you  know, 
defying  all  the  preconceived  ideas  that  redheads  should  avoid 
flaming  colors. 

Joan  Crawford  favors  felt  hats.  "I  don't  feci  comfortable  in 
anything  else,"  she  explains.  Her  hatter  delivered  eight  to  her 
dressing-room  at  one  time,  recently.  All  vagabonds,  each  cut 
just  a  bit  different,  but  if  it  were  not  for  the  great  variance  in 
color,  you  really  could  not  tell  one  from  another.  However, 
hats  are  not  Joan's  most  unique  clothes  habit.  It  is  having 
several  dresses  made  exactly  alike,  in  different  colors.  Last 
summer  she  bought  a  cunning  red  and  white  polka  dot  sport 
dress  for  thirty-five  dollars,  and  liked  it  so  well  that  she  had  her 
seamstress  copy  it  in  three  different  polka  dot  combinations. 
She  has  been  known  to  do  the  same  with  evening  gowns. 

BILLIE  DOVE  orders  hats  in  the  same  fashion.  She  begrudges 
the  time  for  extensive  shopping,  so  chooses  as  many  as 
eighteen  at  the  beginning  of  a  season.  All  shaped  alike — from 
an  especially  becoming  pattern  designed  for  her  by  her  hatter. 
Every  shade  of  the  rainbow.  Her  gowns,  if  you  please,  are  then 
ordered  to  match  the  hats  she  has  ordered. 

Which  reminds  us.  Joyce  Compton  recently  startled  the 
Mayfair  with  a  new  black  velvet   [  please  turn  to  page  120  ] 

73 


At  the  left,  Edna 
Best,  the  little  Eng- 
lish star  who  ran 
away  from  Holly- 
wood and  a  talkie 
career  to  be  with 
her  husband,  right. 
He's  Herbert  Mar- 
shall, brilliant  Brit- 
ish actor  now  on 
Broadway 


A  Hollywood  Runaway 


WHEN  Edna  Best,  the 
little  English  actress  who 
was  cast  opposite  John 
Gilbert  in  "Cheri  Bibi," 
left  Hollywood,  "Cheri  Bibi,"  Gilbert 
and  everyone  else  on  the  M-G-M  lot 
flat,  and  dashed  3,000  miles  across 
the  continent  to  join  her  husband  in 
New  York,  Hollywood,  used  to  just 
the  opposite,  raised  a  cynical  eye- 
brow and  mused: 

"I  wonder  what  the  real  reason  is!" 

Hollywood  would  do  that,  because 
the  simple,  touching  story  of  a  woman  who  preferred  home 
and  husband  to  a  career  in  the  movies  was  altogether  out  of 
place  in  that  mad,  topsy-turvy  mecca  of  complicated  marital 
and  romantic  careers. 

But  that  is  the  real  reason — just  that! 

Edna  Best,  happily  married  to  Herbert  Marshall,  handsome 
English  actor  now  appearing  in  Phillip  Barry's  "Tomorrow 
and  Tomorrow"  in  New  York,  was  unhappy  3,000  miles  away 
from  him. 

It  was  the  first  time  in  their  married  life  of  more  than  two 
years  that  they  had  been  separated  for  so  long  and  by  such  a 
distance,  and  Edna,  obeying  that  impulse,  simply  hopped  on 
a  train  and  wired  the  studio  from  San  Bernardino  that  she 
was  on  her  way. 

When  that  new  bombshell  burst  in  that  already  well-shell- 
shocked  community,  everyone  had  a  different  explanation, 
ignoring,  of  course,  the  explanation  given  by  Miss  Best  her- 
self. 

Everyone  had  the  real  "lowdown." 

"Why,  haven't  you  heard,  dearie?"  asked  one.  "Well,  it 
seems  that  at  a  rehearsal  of  the  picture,  at  which  she  was  very 
nervous,  she  had  to  go  over  something  several  times,  and 
Gilbert  got  very  peevish. 

"  'How  much  longer  do  I  have  to  act  with  this  stick?'  Jack 
shrieked,  and  she  burst  into  tears  and  left  the  act. 

"That's  the  real  reason,  dearie." 

THAT  story,  however,  hardly  bears  out  the  other  one  that 
Gilbert,  upon  hearing  of  Miss  Best's  sensational  departure, 
screamed  with  mirth  and  said: 

"Good  for  her!  I  wish  I  had  the  nerve  to  do  something  like 
that!" 

Furthermore,  Gilbert  has  a  splendid  reputation  for  being 
courteous  and  considerate  to  fellow-workers  on  a  picture, 
particularly  new-comers  to  Hollywood.     He  had  already  ex- 


The   reason   Edna 

Best  fled  the  talkies 

is  so  honest  no  one 

believes  it! 


By  James  M.  Kahn 


pressed  himself  at  the  studio  as  being 
delighted  with  her  screen  and  voice 
tests  and  thought  her  very  clever. 

Another  well-circulated  story  was 
that    Miss   Best   acquired   an   over- 
whelming inferiority  complex  upon 
reaching    the    sun-kissed    shores    of 
California,  which  was  only  height- 
ened when  she  saw  the  ease  and  cas- 
ualness  with  which  the  experienced 
old-timers   went   about   their  work, 
and  that  she  fled  in  terror,  feeling 
she'd  never  make  the  grade. 
Those  are  Hollywood  versions  of  a  story  so  simple  that  it 
just  couldn't  be  believed,  but  the  truth  is  beginning  to  soak  in 
at  last. 

In  fact,  M-G-M  executives,  at  first  considerably  put  out 
by  Miss  Best's  abrupt  leave-taking,  are  now  beaming  like 
little  cherubs  over  a  letter  of  explanation  from  Miss  Best  in 
which  the  word  "husband"  was  mentioned  seven  times. 

They  have  taken  the  trouble  to  make  it  plain  that  all  is 
forgiven,  and  that  they  are  looking  forward  to  the  return  of 
Miss  Best  and  her  husband,  who  is  also  entering  the  talkies, 
in  the  early  fall. 

AT  present  they  are  happily  re-united  in  New  York,  where 
Mr.  Marshall  continues  to  charm  both  the  little  woman 
and  capacity  audiences  in  "Tomorrow  and  Tomorrow." 

When  the  play  has  finished  its  run,  both  will  return  to  Eng- 
land for  a  combination  business  and  pleasure  trip.  Bent  on 
doing  everything  together,  they  both  are  in  partnership  with 
Gilbert  Miller,  the  Anglo-American  producer  who  sponsored 
Mr.  Marshall's  present  Broadway  vehicle,  and  it  is  largely  in 
connection  with  the  Miller-Marshall-Best  theatrical  enter- 
prises abroad  that  they  are  making  the  trip. 

Until  this  comes  off.  Miss  Best  will  fill  in  her  time  in  New 
York  in  a  new  play  with  Basil  Rathbone,  which  is  now  in  re- 
hearsal. 

As  it  doesn't  require  that  she  leave  New  York — and  Herbert 
Marshall — she  has  entered  into  it  with  her  old  zest. 

After  their  theatrical  engagements  and  their  trip  to  England 
are  over  they  will  return  to  Hollywood  in  the  early  fall — to- 
gether. 

Then,  with  her  husband  on  the  same  lot  with  her,  maybe  in 
the  very  same  picture  with  her,  Edna  Best  will  begin  all  over 
again  on  an  American  talkie  career  that,  even  at  its  best,  she 
has  concluded,  runs  second  to  that  more  desirable  combina- 
tion— a  husband  and  home. 


PHOTOPI  \v    M  IGAZINC    i  OB    M  w  .    1       1 


lour  ii i$e  u«ii|%  lo  lo\rlim^>  ili<ii   Limioiix  women  u§6 


Distinguished  for  their  beauty 
...for  (In-  irresistible  grace  with 

which   the}    rarry   on   an   aristO- 

cratic  tradition  .  .  .  the  world's 
.social  leaden  follow  Ponds  way 

to  tin-    unfailing    charm   of  per- 
sonal loveliness. 

\\  berevex  their  brilliant  pur- 
tuita  niav  t.ikf  them,  they  give 
to  exquisite  -km-  tin-   Bpecial 


cJ?ady  Qu>&£    Ga-LSl 
JP&U, S?ut>ULCm£ yt/byiososi  ^LasnZ£t&7i 

Mm.  QftJ  Q&Lyt  duJ?*n£ 


•  an-  .  .  .  and  la..-  an  admiring 
woi I'l  with  radiant  lovelint 
assured  bug  i 

Follow  their  example.    Equip 
your  dressing  table  with  these 

I  \\  o  la u-  Creams,  t  bese 

softer  Tissues  . . .  this  marvelous 
Skin  Freshener  .  . .  'Hun  watch 
lor  tin-  cm  banting  new  beaut] 
that  must  plow  in  your  sk'n! 


1— For  thorough  cleansing,  ampW  apply 
Pond'a  Cold  (ream,  with  upward,  out- 
ward strokes.    Ij-i  tin-  fine  oik  -ink  into 
ih»-  pores  ami  float  the  dirt  in  the  surface 


2— With  Pond's  Cleansing   rissues  wipe 
.o>.i%  all  cream  ami  dirt.   These  fleecy - 
-'■ii   rissues  are   >-'r  more  absorbent 
•han  ordinary  tissues.    Peach  or  white. 


3—  ^V  ith  Pond's  Skin  Freshener  briskli 
pal   \<>ur  -km  till  it  ii>  ail  agio W— to 
banish  oihness.  dose  ami  reduce  pores, 
(one   ami    inn,   promote    natural    color 

I     Now  a  dainix  Dim  ol  Pond's  Vanish 
ing  (.ream,  for  powder  base,  protection 
exquisite  Brush.    1  *<•  it  on  your  neck 
and  arms,  too — wherever  jrou  powder. 


Tine  in  on  Pond's  Afternoon  Tea 
Tuesdays  at  5  P.M..  F.S.T.  Leo 
ReLsman's  Orchestra.  Leading  Society 
Women,  WEAF and  .X.B.C.  Network. 


Send  10<  for  Pond's  4  Famous  Preparations 
Pond's  Extract  Company  •  Dept.  S       111  Hudson  Street.  New  York  City 

Name Address . 


c  tan.  icrj- 1 ,-«. 


JO 


I'HOTOPLAY    -MAGAZINE    FOR    .MAY,    19 jl 


am 


SAYS 


RENE  RICH 


This  charming  screen  favorite  tells  how  9  out  of  10 
Hollywood  stars  keep  the  lure  of  youthful  skin  .  .  . 


■  "  I  don't  mind  confessing  it  a  bit," 
says  Irene  Rich  with  her  warm,  irre- 
sistible smile.  "I  really  am  thirty- 
nine  years  old! 

"A  screen  star  never  worries  about 
birthdays,  you  see,  as  long  as  she 
doesn't  look  old.  To  hold  her  public 
she  must  keep  the  fresh  loveliness  of 
youth. 

"That  is  why  in  Hollywood  we 
guard  complexion  beauty  above  all 
else.  We  know  it  says  'youth'  quicker 
than  anything  else.  Any  woman  who 
wants  to  keep  her  charm  right  through 
the  years  should  keep  her  skin  always 
soft,  smooth,  youthfully  aglow." 

How  does  this  lovely  star  guard 
complexion  beauty?  Just  as  so  many 
other  Hollywood  actresses  do — 605  of 
the  613  important  ones!  "I  use  Lux 
Toilet  Soap  regularly ,"  she  says. 


■  IRENE  RICH  AND  HER  TWO  DAUGHTERS 

(left  to  right)  Frances,  20  years  old,  Jane  (in  back- 
ground) 14,  their  mother,  actually  39!  Still  radiantly 
youthful,  still  irresistibly  appealing,  Irene  Rich  says: 
"Any  woman  can  keep  her  youthful  freshness  right 
through  the  years.  The  right  soap  can  do  wonders 
for  your  skin.  I  have  used  Lux  Toilet  Soap  for  years, 
and  my  daughters,  too,  use  it." 


For  every  type  of  skin,  the  Holly- 
wood stars  find,  this  fragrant,  lovely 
white  soap  is  the  perfect  complexion 
care.  Surely  you  will  want  to  try  it! 


i 


The  caress  of  dollar- 

a-cake  French  soap 


Lux 


riloiOPI.AV    MACAZINE    FOR    MAY,    1931 


77 


years 


old! 


// 


Photograph  by  Autrey 
Hollywood,  1930 


■  IRENE  RICH,  the  screen  star  whose  loveliness  has 
endeared  her  to  millions,  confesses  frankly  to  thirty, 
nine  birthdays.  And  why  not?  Above  is  one  of  her 
most  recent  photographs.  Years  have  only  added  to 
her  charm.  Today  she  faces  even  the  ctuel  test  of 
close-up  lights  triumphantly  youthful,  as  this  picture 
(right)  from  one  of  her  recent  films  shows! 

Toilet  S 


VERY  YOUNG  LEADING  MAN— "Of  course,  my 

pet,  I'll  be  terribly,  terribly  proud  to  be  a  father — 

but  what  will  my  public  say?" 


Important  Money 

(Since  Warners  signed  Ruthie  Chatterton,  Willie  Powell  and 
Katie  Francis  for  huge  sums,  the  actors  in  Hollywood  are  again 
talking  in  a  lot  of  cyphers.) 

/  saw  Jack  Warner  yesterday — 

He  offered  me  a  million. 
But  shucks!    I  tossed  the  contract  back 

And  told  him,  "Don't  be  sillion! 

"Just  give  me  thirty  grand  a  week, 

A  palace  at  the  shore, 
Six  cars,  eight  maids,  a  swimming  pool 

And  I'll  not  ask  for  more! 

"Oh  yes,  I'll  want  a  contract  with 

Ten  automatic  options — 
And  probably  a  dressing-room 

With  all  the  new  contraptions!" 

I  handle  all  big  shots  like  that — 

"Give  up — or  I'll  take  air! 
What's  that?     A  bit  at  Paramount? 

Gee!     Lend  me  taxi  fare!" 


Fun's  Fun! 

Leo  Townsend  tells  Walter  Winchell  he  thinks  Gloria  Swan- 
son  is  running  around  with  Gene  Markey  because  she  thinks 
Markey  is  a  title.  .  .  .  Some  mad  wag — I  suspect  Willie 
Haines  or  Eddie  Nugent — hung  a  sign  on  Buster  Keaton's 
dressing-room,  reading  "Danger:  Women  at  Work!"  .  .  . 
Katherine  DeMille,  Cecil's  daughter,  has  given  up  acting  for 
a  time  and  is  holding  the  script  on  her  dad's  set.  Can't  you 
just  hear  it?     "Yes,   Pop!"  .  .  .  Some  good  marquee  signs 

78 


x\eeli 


ing 


Around 

with 

Leonard 

Hall 


latelv.  In  New  York — PAGLIACCI,  the  first  grand  opera  in 
sound  film,  THE  DOORWAY  TO  HELL.  In  London— 
ONE  HEAVENLY  NIGHT.  Next  week— THE  DEVIL 
TO  PAY.  .  .  .  "The  Village  of  Sin,"  famous  Russian  picture, 
was  directed  by  O.  Proebashenskaja.  The  Film  Mercury 
wants  to  know  why  the  feller  doesn't  come  to  Hollywood  and 
make  a  name  for  himself?  .  .  .  Charles  (Ex-Buddy  Ex-Star) 
Rogers  gets  his  morning  headache  worrying  about  which  of 
his  five  cars  he'll  take  to  the  studio.  And  when  he  was  a  kid 
hit,  did  I  buy  five  gallons  of  gas  for  his  one-lunged  flivver? 
A  whole  Hollywood  novel  in  two  lines.  .  .  .  Richard  Dix,  it 
is  said,  will  sing  in  "Marcheta."  Well,  we  can  always  re- 
member "Cimarron." 


The  Gag  of  the  Month  Club 

This  month's  award  goes  to  Groucho  (Silly)  Merx 
without  effort. 

The  fastest-cracker  of  the  four  Marx  boys  arrived  in 
Hollywood  to  begin  work  on  the  next  Paramount  comedy 
of  that  funny  family. 

As  a  matter  of  course,  he  was  interviewed. 

"Mr.  Marx,"  asked  an  earnest  young  newsman  from 
the   Los  Angeles  Times,    "do  you  want  to   play  Hamlet?" 

Groucho  gave  him  the  eye. 

"Not,"  replied  Mr.  Marx,  "unless  he  gives  me  a  stroke 
a  hole!" 


Getting  Personal 

When  Clara  Bow  was  getting  her  rest  after  the  DeVoe  trial, 
she  spent  most  of  it  hiding  away  at  the  ranch  owned  by  Charlie 
Mack,  of  Moran  and  Mack.  .  .  .  Yes,  and  Clara  and  Charlie 
Rogers  won  the  popularity  contest  conducted  by  the  Chicago 
Times.  Garbo  and  Lew  Ayres,  second.  .  .  .  Harry  Langdon, 
with  three  suits  filed  against  him  in  Hollywood,  is  playing  in 
vaudeville  somewhere  else.  Harry  found  he  couldn't  laugh 
off  the  suits.  .  .  .  Alice  White's  chauffeur  is  named  Charles 
Ray.  .  .  .  Did  you  know  that  Uncle  Carl  Laemmle  of  Univer- 
sal is  now  so  hard  of  hearing  he  has  to  use  ear-phones  to  hear 
his  own  talkies?  It's  a  break  for  him  if  he  mislays  them  now 
and  then.  .  .  .  Will  Rogers  set  out  to  be  a  Methodist  minister. 
Then  the  chewing-gum  habit  got  him,  and  now  he's  a  million- 
aire. .  .  .  Ina  Claire  is  a  numerologist,  like  a  lot  of  others  in 
Hollywood.  Ina  found  the  lucky  number  and  made  "The 
Royal  Family."  .  .  .  Though  Anita  Page  is  a  great  big  girl 
now,  eleven  o'clock  is  still  the  deadline,  or  bedline,  and  her 
pappy  still  calls  for  her  at  parties.  .  .  .  Arthur  McLaglen, 
Vic's  fifty-seventh  or  ninety-fourth  brother,  was  married  in 
Hollywood  to  Marian  Lord.  .  .  .  Robert  Montgomery  has 
rated  a  brief  Broadway  holiday  after  arduous  work  on  the 
Metro  lot.  .  .  .  The  progress  of  cinematic  art  in  America — 
the  Pennsylvania  censors  made  so  many  cuts  in  "The  Easiest 
Way"  that  four  subtitles  had  to  be  written  in  to  explain  the 
action.  Clarence  Brown,  famous  Metro  director,  has  just 
given  up  S15.000  for  a  new  plane  guaranteed  to  deliver  175 
miles  an  hour. 


Photoplay  Macazinb  roi  May,  1     i 


79 


. .  ana  on  her  check 
I  lie  re  blooms  we  radiant 
blusn  o. 


Health 


Glowing  health  and  unblemished 

beauty  can  reward  those  who 

follow  the  Saline  Treatment 

TO  the  art  of  the  cosmetician,  to  the 
maker  of  fine  creams  and  lotions, 
every  woman  should  bow  in  gratitude. 
For  pure  creams  and  unfailing  care  do 
much  to  clear  and  guard  your  skin. 

But  cosmetics,  however  good,  and 
creams,  however  fine,  guard  only  the 
surface  of  your  skin!  And  many  a 
woman  blames  her  creams  and  lotions 
when  the  fault  lies  in  herself — she  has 
neglected  internal  cleanliness! 

She,  then,  should  know  the  virtues  of 
the  Saline  Method  —  for  the  surest,  sim- 
plest way  to  internal  cleanliness  is  with 
Sal  Hepatica  —  the  saline  way  to  a  clear 
and  healthy  system. 

In  Europe,  well  do  women  know  the 


virtues  of  salines.  At  the  season's  end, 
to  Vichy,  to  Wiesbaden,  to  Aix —  come 
the  lovely  Viennese,  the  cool  beauties  of 
England,  the  dark,  slender  women  of 
France.  There  they  drink  the  saline  wa- 
ters of  the  famous  health  springs — and 


Sal  HcPat'cS 


return  to  the  European  capitals  with  com- 
plexions refined,  with  bodies  revivified. 

For  years,  physicians  have  recom- 
mended the  saline  method  for  correct- 
ing acidity  and  the  long  list  of  ills 
which  come  from  faulty  elimination. 

Colds  and  acidosis,  rheumatism,  head- 
aches and  auto-intoxication  are  driven 
away.  Digestions  are  regulated.  Com- 
plexions are  cleared.  For  salines  purify 
the  bloodstream. 

Get  a  bottle  of  Sal  Hepatica  today. 
Keep  internally  clean  for  one  whole 
week.  See  how  your  complexion  takes 
on  the  radiant  clarity  of  health. 

Send  in  the  coupon — and  let  us  send 
you,  free,  the  booklet,  "To  Clarice  in 
Quest  of  Her  Youth"— which  explains 
the  many  benefits  of  Sal  Hepatica. 
•  *  * 

Brjstol-Myers  Co..  Dcrt.  CM.  "1  West  St  ,  N  T 
Kindly  send  me  the  free  booldet.'To  Clarice  in  quest 
of  her  youth,"  which  explains  the  many  benefits  of 
Sal  Hepatna. 

I 

Street 

GtJ—     


_5;.;.v 


■MM 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


|  I  0NTIN1  ED  FROM  PAGE  45  j 


Will  Rogers  tries  his  gags  on  the  boy  friends.  Between  scenes  for 
"A  Connecticut  Yankee,"  Will  reads  one  of  his  daily  telegrams  right 
out  loud.  Left  to  right,  William  Farnum  King  Arthur),  Will  himself, 
and  Brandon  Hurst  (Merlin).  Director  David  Butler,  in  civilian  clothes, 
seems  the  best  audience  of  the  whole  lot 


"NTI-XI'IIKR  London  nor  the  little  gray  comic 
^-^  himself  will  soon  forget  the  welcome  the 
British  capital  gave  Charlie  Chaplin  when  he 
landed  in  the  country  of  which  he's  still  a 
citizen. 

Riots  at  the  dock,  the  London  railway 
station,  and  up  and  down  the  town.  Pande- 
monium at  the  premiere  of  "City  Lights." 
Visits  with  all  and  sundry  nabobs,  from 
Premier  MacDonald  down.  A  quick  trip  to 
the  teeming  East  End,  where  Charlie  spent  his 
boyhood. 

Rumors  of  a  knighthood  —  which  Charlie 
probably  wouldn't  accept,  anyway. 

Berlin — the  same  story.  Mobbed  at  the 
station,  with  Marlene  Dietrich  ill-advisedly 
crashing  in  on  the  reception  and  being  politely 
put  aside  until  Charlie  was  properly  hailed. 
Then  she  and  the  comic  had  a  talk  at  his  hotel. 

And  again  in  France,  the  same  whoop-de- 
doo.  All  for  a  little  gray-haired  comedian  who 
is  called  the  greatest  living  master  of  the  art  of 
pantomime! 

'"TWEXTY  million  movie  fans — grab  your 
-*■  shotguns  and  swords  and  get  readv  for 
battle! 

A  learned  board  of  judges  headed  by  Xewton 
D.  Baker,  former  Secretary  of  War,  has  chosen 
America's  twelve  greatest  women. 

Social  workers,  artists,  educators  and 
authors — and  not  one  picture  actress! 

What  about  Clara  Bow?  What  about 
Garbo — or  is  Scandinavian  birth  ruled  out? 
I'm  boiling! 


HPHE  stars  used  to  have  their  faces  lifted. 
*■      Xow  they  have  their  voices  lowered. 

It's  the  talkies,  mates! 

Dr.  Marafioti,  over  at  Metro,  has  been  relax- 
ing John  Gilbert,  and  in  "  Gentleman's  Fate" 
Jack's  voice  is  several  tones  farther  down  in  the 
chest,  much  to  everyone's  delight. 

It  is  even  said  that  Garbo,  herself,  is  tinker- 
ing with  her  voice.  She's  said  to  be  worried 
about  its  huskiness,  and  would  like  to  iron  it 
out  a  bit.  Don't  do  it,  Greta!  The  minute  you 
go  canary  on  us,  you'll  lose  a  lot  of  that  fascina- 
tion! 

ANITA  PAGE  now  tips  the  scales 
at  118.    Careful,  Anita! 

•"THERE'S  still  plenty  of  fight  in  Mary  Xolan. 
*■  Of  course,  the  Hollywood  version  of  her 
row  with  Universal  is  that  there  was  too  much 
tight  in  her  to  begin  with — and  that  most  of  it 
was  directed  at  Ernest  and  Junior  Laemmle. 
The  roaring  of  the  tempestuous  beauty  of  the 
Universal  lot  was  altogether  too  reminiscent  of 
the  pre-talkie  tantrums  of  Pola  Xegri.  and  the 
inevitable  outcome  was  the  abrupt  termination 
of  her  contract. 

But,  lighting  still,  she  says  she's  on  her  way 
back.  She's  playing  a  dramatic  sketch  in 
vaudeville  now  which  she  hopes  will  show  pro- 
ducers the  wide  range  of  her  dramatic  talents 
and  the  kind  of  parts  she  wants  to  play. 

She  wants  a  respite  from  the  steady  succes- 
sion of  ''bad  woman"  parts  to  which  she  took 
such  an  explosive  dislike  at  Universal. 

T_TOLLYWOOD  versions  of  the  tumultuous 
•*■  -^-Mary  don't  exactly  jibe  with  her  own 
plaintive  accounts  of  how  hard  things  were 
made  for  her. 

She  says  she  got  a  bad  deal  because  she 
happened  to  be  Imogene  Wilson  before  she  be- 
came Mary  Xolan. 

One  does  know  that  her  vitriolic  outbursts, 
when  Pauline  Starke  supplanted  her  in  "What 
Men  Want,"  made  her  unpopular  and  that 
after  she  had  gone  the  entire  company  played 

80 


the  fashionable  game  of  "Murder."  At  the 
suggestion  of  Carmelita  Geraghty,  each  mem- 
ber told  a  different  story  of  how  they  had 
murdered  La  Xolan! 

At  any  rate,  only  twenty-six,  and  still  beauti- 
ful, her  heart  is  still  in  pictures,  she  says,  and 
with  protests  that  are  as  determined  as  they 
are  pathetic,  she  insists  she'll  be  back. 

So  it  seems  that  you  just  can't  keep  Mary 
Xolan  down. 

TF  any  of  our  Honolulu  readers  happen  to  see 
-•-Phyllis  Haver  leaving  the  boat  with  an 
elderly  gentleman,  let  us  assure  them  it  is  not  an 
elopement.  She  is  still  crazy  about  her  hus- 
band, Billy  Seeman. 

Billy's  father  died  recently,  and  his  uncle  was 
so  broke  up  over  it  that  Phyllis  took  him  away 
on  a  holiday. 

Billy  had  to  remain  in  Xew  York  to  run  his 
big  '"  White  Rose"  canneries. 

T5ETTY  COMPSOX  admitted  in  a  recent 
-'-'interview  that  she  might  marry  someone  the 
second  time  who  was  several  years  younger 
than  herself.  Even  as  much  as  ten  years 
younger. 

Hugh  Trevor,  who  has  been  her  boy  friend 
since  she  divorced  James  Cruze,  satisfies  the 
situation. 

Incidentally,  Trevor  is  the  nephew  of  William 
Le  Baron,  head-man  for  the  Coast  studio  of 
Radio  where  Betty  makes  pictures. 

ALICE    DAY    and    her    husband, 
Broker  Jack  Cohn,  are  happy. 
Alice's  little  son,  born  in  March,  is 
doing  fine,  and  so's  Alice — and  so, 
need  I  add,  is  Jack. 

"D  EPORTS  persist  that  Pola  Xegri  is  coming 
-^-back  to  America  to  make  talkies. 

She's  said  to  have  a  one-picture  contract 
with  Radio  Pictures,  with  options.  It  would 
be  her  first  audible  screen  effort. 

Well,  doggone  it,  come  on,  Pola.  Holly- 
wood's been  getting  a  bit  dullish! 


XJOTHIXG  daunted,  director  Josef  Yon 
■A-^  Sternberg,  discoverer  of  the  Delectable 
Dietrich,  picks  the  sLx  most  beautiful  women 

[  PLEASE  TURN"  TO  PAGE  82  J 


How  do  you  like  Evalyn  Knapp's 
smart  sports  scarf,  with  its  flower  de- 
sign, and  bag  to  match?  And  how  do 
you  like  Evalyn?  You'll  see  her  next 
in  First  National's  forthcoming  "You 
andl" 


I'llUlnn    \\      ,\|   M  .  \/l  \1       II  IK     .MAY,     I  I 


r>  I 


This  toothpaste 


KEEPS  MORE  PEOPLE'S 
TEETH  CLEAN  THAN  ANY  OTHER 
DENTIFRICE  IN  THE  WORLD-AND 
HAS  FOR  OVER  30  YEARS  .  .  . 


yet  sells  for  J  ^C 


ACCEPTED 


COUN- 


lMERICAN 
IENTAL 


.OtXTAl 


% 


SSOCIA, 
TION. 


^THERAPEUTICS, 

See  if  the  seal  of 

acceptance  is  on 

the  toothpaste 

you  buy 


COLGATE'S  has  health- 
fully and  completely 
cleansed  more  people's  teeth 
than  any  other  toothpaste  the 
world  has  ever  known. 

Colgate's  has  been  more  uni- 
versally recommended  by  den- 
tists through  the  years  than 
any  other  dentifrice  ever  made. 

And  now— climaxing 30  years 
of  leadership  —  Colgate's  has 
been  accepted  by  the  American 
Dental  Association,  Council  on 


Dental  Therapeutics.  The  seal 
signifies  that  the  composition 
of  the  product  has  been  sub- 
mitted to  the  Council  and  that 
the  claims  have  been  found 
acceptable  to  the  Council. 

Colgate's  sells  for  25  cents 
because  more  people  use  it 
than  any  other  make.  The  price 
is  important  —  but  the  quality, 
not  the  price,  has  held  Colgate 
leadership  for  30  years. 


COLGATE'S    RIBBON    DENTAL   CREAM 


1MM 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED    FROM  PAGE  80  ] 


in  Hollywood.  Thus  daring  the  thunderbolts 
of  slighted  darlings. 

Here  are  Joe's  picks — 

Greta  Garbo,  Lily  Damita,  Clara  Bow, 
Frances  Dee,  Joan  Crawford  and  Marlene 
Dietrich  (My  oh  me,  this  last  is  a  surprise, 
Joe!). 

Well,  it's  a  good  pick.  One  man's  pippin  is 
another's  headache,  and  vice  versa. 

JACK  OAKIE  is  making  his  first 
Western  picture. 

"Every  time  I  play  a  whole  scene 
without  falling  off  the  horse,  all  the 
real  cowboys  on  the  set  cheer,"  he 
says. 

"VDUNG  Frank  Albertson  is  one  of  our  newer 
■!■  grooms. 
The    Fox   juvenile    plunged    off    the    deep 
end   with   Virginia   Shelley,   a   pretty  girl  in 
pictures,  not  long  ago. 

"Love  and  careers  mix,"  say  the  Albertsons, 
smiling  broadly. 

WHEN  Universal  made  "Dracula,"  the 
thriller,  officials  knew  they  were  taking  a 
chance.  The  subject  was  so  morbid  that  it 
might  have  no  audience  appeal.  But  it  went 
over  big.  "Dracula"  proved  a  box-office 
success. 

So  a  lot  of  officials  of  Universal  threw  a  big 
party  to  celebrate.     One  who  was  not  invited 
to  the  party  was  Tod  Browning. 
Tod  Browning  directed  "Dracula." 

OF  course  Hollywood  has  taken  to 
backgammon.     Conrad  Nagel  is 
one  of  the  victims. 

He  carries  a  pocket-sized  back- 
gammon board  with  him  wherever  he 
goes.    Well,  almost. 

GOODNESS  gracious,  there's  a  restaurant  in 
Hollywood  which  actually  doesn't  want 
publicity.  They  beg  people  not  to  let  their 
name  get  into  print. 

It's  Armstrong  and  Schroder,  at  Wilshire  and 
Santa  Monica. 

And  their  reason?  They  are  afraid  Gloria 
Swanson  will  stop  coming  there  almost  every 
evening  to  eat  steak,  her  favorite  food.  When 
the  public  go  to  a  restaurant  to  see  the  stars 
eat,  the  stars  go  somewhere  else. 

LOWELL  SHERMAN  has  a  trick 
superstition.  In  the  cast  of  each 
picture  he  is  to  direct,  he  insists  on 
having  at  least  one  person  from  the 
cast  of  the  last  picture  he  made. 

"  V\  THY  won't  you  tell  the  amount  of  money 
VV  you  inherited  from  your  grandmother?" 

we  asked  Carole  Lombard,  who  has  contented 

herself  with  explaining  she  would  never  have 

to  work  again  if  she  didn't  wish  to. 

"  Because  everyone   would   be  wanting  to 

borrow  from  me,"  was  the  simple  explanation. 

Wise  baby! 

AND  now  there's  the  bozo  who 
says  that  Harry  Carey  may  be  a 
star  in  Hollywood  but  he's  suicide  in 
Japan.    Get  it? 

EVELYN  LAYE,  the  booful  blonde  of  "One 
Heavenly  Night,"  seems  to  have  lost  out  in 
Hollywood. 

Samuel  Goldwyn  has  allowed  her  option  to 
lapse.  Before  that  Warners  wanted  her  for  the 
role  of  Trilby  in  Barrymore's  "Svengali,"  but 
they  couldn't  see  the  850,000  she  asked. 

So  the  English  Miss  Laye  seems  all  set  for  a 
brilliant  career — in  England. 

82 


Mary  Brian  gets  her  copy  of  PHO- 
TOPLAY from  the  new  "News-O- 
Mat"  vending  machine  in  Hollywood. 
A  quarter  in  the  slot,  a  tug  at  the 
lever,  and  Mary  gets  the  latest  news 
about  herself 


CIMARRON"  not  only  put  Richard  Dix 
back  into  the  limelight  as  one  of  the  lead- 
ing cinema  actors  but,  more  important  to 
Richard,  who  admits  he  has  a  mercenary 
streak,  it  boosted  the  weekly  pay  check.  It's 
now  $5,500.  And  before  you  say  it's  too  much, 
remember  that  a  salesman  is  entitled  to  ten 
per  cent  and  Dix's  name  is  the  salesman  for 
"Cimarron."  The  way  that  picture  is  going, 
it's  not  ten  per  cent,  either. 


A  STUDIO  visitor — a  friend  of  somebody- 
-*  *■  or-other,  and  one  of  those  gushy  young 
things! — was  introduced  to  Ricardo  Cortez  on 
t  National  set  the  other  day. 

"Oh,  Senor  Cortez!"  she  began — and  forth- 
with rattled  along  in  excellent  Spanish  for 
several  minutes. 

Cortez  listened  and  smiled  indulgently,  until 
she  paused. 

"I'm  sorry,"  he  said.  "I  don't  speak 
Spanish." 

She  looked  startled. 

Then  a  light  dawned. 

And  she  chattered  on — this  time  in  exquisite 
French. 

Again  Cortez  patiently  waited. 

When  she  paused  again,  he  turned  to  a 
studio  aide. 

"Say,"  he  pleaded,  "won't  someone  tell  this 
lady  that  the  only  language  I  know  is  English?" 

She  was  quite  disappointed. 

Ricardo  Cortez'  real  name,  she  learned  later, 
is  Jack  Krantz. 

He  was  raised  in  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CARMEL   MYERS   wants  $52,000. 
Who  doesn't?    But  Carmel  is  suing  as  the 
result  of  an  automobile  accident  in  which  she 
suffered  a  broken  wrist. 

Carmel  charges  that  Milton  C.  Bren  lent 
his  car  to  her  husband,  Ralph  Blum,  knowing 
that  its  brakes  were  defective.  Over  an  em- 
bankment they  went. 

Carmel's  wrist  cracked — and  it  hurt  just 
$52,000  worth. 

JOAN  BENNETT'S  bodyguard  is  a 
Great    Dane    dog  —  a    mammoth 
beast. 

It  roams  the  grounds  of  Joan's  big, 
isolated  house,  by  night. 

It    used    to    belong    to    Rudolph 
Valentino. 

ONE  way  to  end  a  perfectly  good  screen 
career  is  to  kick  El  Brendel  in  the  eye.  Or 
maybe  you'd  just  like  to  do  it  on  general 
principles. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  84  ] 


Making  talkies  on  a  battle-wagon !  The  Navy  lends  the  Battleship  Colorado 
to  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  for  scenes  for  "Shipmates."  Of  course,  the 
gobs  just  hated  having  this  crowd  of  pretty  girls  on  board !  As  you  can  see 
by  the  way  they're  crowded  back  of  the  lights,  they  aren't  interested. 
It  must  be  the  cameras  they  like ! 


^^Ml 


PHOIOm  w   M.v.a/i.m.   iuk   M.v.  .    1      1 

In  more  than  1600  cities  ...  all  over  the  world  .  . .  beauty 
experts  agree  on  olive  and  palm  oil  beauty  cleansing 


JMadann BERTH  A  JACOBSON  of  Lou, 


ion 


tells  how  to  retain  the 
complexion  of  Youth 


THAT  ruddy,  out-of-doors 
English  complexion.    It  defies 
weather.  It  defies  rime.  And  beauty 

experts  in   Britain's  capital   believe 

that  one  particular  facial  soap  docs 
much  to  guard  that  youthful,  whole- 
some beauty.  They  advise Palmolive. 
Their  clients  use  it. 

Madame  Bertha  Jacobson  speaks 
for  thousands  of  her  colleagues  in 
beauty  culture  when  she  warns  against 
"the  harsh  effects  of  soaps  not  made 
exclusively  of  olive  and  palm  oils." 

In  over  1600  cities — do  consider 
the  tremendous  reaches  of  Europe 
and  America  that  must  cover!  — 
beauty  specialists  advise  Palmolive 
Soap  as  a  safeguard  to  skin  loveli- 
ness. And  in  England,  Mmc.  Jacob- 
son,  a  pre-eminent  leader  in  her 
field,  is  quite  emphatic  in  her  reasons 
for  suggesting  its  use. 

Need  for  soap  and  water 

"When  women  come  to  me  for 
advice  on  the  care  of  the  skin,"  she 
says,  "I  always  impress  on  them  the 
need  for  soap  and  water,  as  cleanli- 
ness of  the  skin  is  the  first  step 
to  beauty. 

"By  using  Palmolive  you  can 
always  be  sure  your  skin  will  retain 
its  natural  loveliness." 

Unless  impurities  are  removed 
from  the  skin  by  the  use  of  gentle, 
soothing  soap  lather,  they  form  black- 
heads, pimples,  blemishes  of  all  sorts. 

Now,  because  of  its  olive  and 
palm  oil  content,  Palmolive  has  been 
found  to  be  most  efficient  in  cleans- 
ing the  skin  .  .  .  gentler,  easier  on 
the  youth  of  the  skin.  That  is  why 
Madame  Jacobson  and  over  20,000 
other  beauty  experts  advise  it.  Why 
you  should  use  it  —  to  keep  that 
schoolgirl  complexion. 


r  Palmolive  leaves  the  shin 
delightfully  smooth.  It  is 
refreshing,  pure,  safe. 
Your  shin  needs  its  gen- 
tle lather,  for  true  clean- 
liness, twice  daily." 

of  Maison  de  Beaute  Pompadour, 
Ltd..  11/12  Dover  St.,  Maytair, 
London,  \V.  I. 


YOUTH!    Whclcsomcncss! 

Due,  in  large  measure,  to  the 

capth-ating   freshness   of   that 

schoolgirl  complexion! 


PALMOLIVE  RADIO 
HOUR  —  Broadcast  every 
Wednesday  night — from  9:30 
to  10:30  p.  m.,  Eastern  time; 
8:30  to  9:30  p.m..  Central 
time:  7:30  to  8:30  p.  m.. 
Mountain  time;  6:30  to  7:30 
p.  m.,  Pacific  Coast  time — 
over  W'EAF  and  39  stations 
associated  with  The  National 
Broadcasting  Company. 


DAHI.STRAND 
^•ockholm 
Beauty   ai-.iser   to 
■ 

Ira,    places 
"Pa  Imolivt  fir  st 
among  soaps." 


GjdD 


TEJERO 
of  ltarcc 
helps  the  elites'- 
Spanish    beaut 

c  o  m  p  I  e  x  i  c>  »i  s 
love:  ■  'sing 

Pain: 


^ATfrd^JiayyUuO^n/ 


JBf  io 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE    82] 


What  susceptible  hippopotamus  wouldn't  lie  down,  play  dead  or  even 
yodel  for  these  pretty  First  National  girls,  Mae  Madison  and  Gladys 
Ford?  One  spat  from  Mae's  wand,  and  this  hippo  was  a  good  doggie! 
First  National's  publicity  boss  rushed  the  girls  over  the  minute  Al 
Barnes'  circus  train  came  steaming  into  town  to  help  make  a  circus 

picture 


Antoinette  Morales  is  a  little  Spanish 
dancer  who  has  a  part  in  "Women  of  All 
Nations."  She  kicked  a  little  too  far  and 
Brendel  was  standing  where  he  shouldn't  have 
been. 

It  was  pretty  serious  and,  for  a  time,  it 
was  thought  that  the  comedian  might  lose  the 
sight  in  that  eye. 

And  poor  Antoinette  was  so  upset  that  she 
didn't  wait  to  see  if  her  option  was  going  to  be 
renewed. 

She  just  packed  her  things  and  went  straight 
back  to  New  York. 

MARION  DAVIES'  pet  supersti- 
tion is  the  one  about  not  having 
thirteen  at  table. 

She'll  hold  up  even  a  formal  dinner 
for  more  than  an  hour  to  find  a  four- 
teenth guest. 

NO  matter  how  serious  the  occasion,  Buster 
Keaton  always  has  a  good  laugh! 
Shortly  after  Kathleen  Key  stormed  into 
his  dressing-room,  demanded  $20,000  from  him 
to  keep  from  making  a  scandal,  wrecked  the 
place  pretty  successfully  and  manhandled 
Keaton,  equally  successfully.  Buster  hung  a 
sign  on  his  dressing-room  door.  It  read, 
"Closed  for  repairs."  Shortly  afterwards,  he 
hung  up  another  one  which  said,  "Opened 
under    new    management."      He    also    had 

Si 


printed  slips  of  paper  which  even-  woman  who 
comes  into  his  dressing-room  must  sign. 

The  statement  makes  it  clear  that  you  enter 
at  your  own  risk  and  that  Buster  is  not  re- 
sponsible for  murder,  arson,  falling  hair  or 
arches,  indigestion  or  loss  of  husbands. 

NOW  that  Director  Van  Dyke's 
black  men,  Mutia  and  Riano, 
who  played  in  "Trader  Horn,"  have 
returned  to  Africa,  the  secret  can  be 
told. 

Of  all  the  delicacies  that  America 
afforded,  the  one  thing  upon  which 
they  spent  all  their  extra  cash  was 
potato  chips. 

SIX  months  ago  Conchita  Montenegro  was 
dancing  in  Paris.  An  M-G-M  official  saw 
her  and  brought  her  to  Hollywood  for  foreign 
versions. 

When  she  landed,  she  could  say  only  "Hello" 
and  "Goodbye"  and  "Xo." 

Today  she  is  playing  the  lead  in  the  English 
version  of  "Never  the  Twain  Shall  Meet," 
starring  Leslie  Howard.  She  prattles  English 
almost  like  a  native.  She  will  tell  you  she 
learned  so  quickly  because  she  is  so  ambitious. 
M-G-M  will  tell  you  she  is  a  Lupe  Velez  and 
Dolores  Del  Rio  rolled  into  one. 

She's  a  cute  youngster  with  a  nose  like 
Gloria  Swanson,  and  she's  popular  with  the 


men.  Mr.  Charles  Spencer  Chaplin  was  one 
who  was  beginning  to  take  particular  notice 
when  he  departed  for  Europe. 

HOLLYWOOD'S  gagsters  just 
can't  resist  playing  with  the  title 
"Cimarron." 

One  cracked  off  that  they  serve 
"Cimarron  buns"  at  the  Radio  studio 
restaurant  daily,  now.  But  the  prize 
— a  bottle  of  cyanide!! — goes  to  the 
wag  who  said: 

"Say,  what's  become  of  So-and- 
So?  I  haven't  Cimarron  lately  .  .  .!" 

HTO  look  at  that  funny  pan.  you'd  never  think 
*■  she  had  a  care  in  the  world.  And  that  just 
goes  to  show  how  wrong  you'd  be.  Polly 
Moran  is  the  champion  long  distance  worrier 
of  the  film  colony. 

Around  about  option  time,  Polly  turns  a 
seagreen  and  forgets  to  laugh  at  Billy  Haines' 
cracks.  The  big  silly — as  if  there  weren't  a 
dozen  studios  who  would  be  tickled  to  death 
to  sign  her  if  M-G-M  didn't  renew!  But 
everything  is  moonlight  and  roses  now.  Metro 
has  signed  her  again,  as  everybody  knew  they 
would. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  110  ] 


Try  this  over  on  your  zither!  Lilian 
Bond,  the  new  Metro  find  from  musi- 
cal comedy,  wears  this  novel  sports 
costume — a  black  and  white  jersey 
suit,  with  the  jacket  full  of  musical 
notes 


Photopi  w  M  ic  \/im   i  in  M  w.  i     I 


is 


Why  do  so  many  women 


prefer  this  tooth  paste? 


77 


"HE  answer  is  simple  and  logical. 
Listerine  Tooth  Paste  is  kinder  to 
the  teeth. 

This     delightful     thrift    dentifrice 
contains  remarkable   cleansing   and 
polishing    agents  —  noted    for   their 
gentle  action.  We  searched  for  years 
before   discovering   them.    They  are 
harder  than  tartar  and  consequently 
remove  it.  But  they  are  softer  than 
the  precious  tooth  enamel  and  are 
therefore  harmless  to  it. 

So,  teeth  cleansed  by  Listerine 
Tooth  Paste  retain  their  natural 
health,  firmness,  and  brilliance. 

If  you  are  not  already  using  this 
unusual  tooth  paste,  get  a  tube  to- 
day and  try  it.   Compare  it  with  any 
tooth  paste  at  any  price.  And  judge 
by  results  alone. 

More  than   3,000,000    men    and 
women  have  made  this  comparison. 
Now  they  pronounce  Listerine  Tooth 
Paste    their  favorite.    They  like   the 
quick  but  gentle  way  it  gets  rid  of 
discoloration,  stains,  and  tartar. 
They  like  the  thorough  way  it  cleans. 
The    beautiful    brilliance   it   imparis 
to  teeth. 

And  they  welcome  that  wonderful 
feeling  of  freshness  it  leaves  in  the 
mouth  —  a  sensation  associated  with 
Listerine  itself. 

Incidentally, at  25?  the  large  tube, 

Listerine  Tooth  Paste  saves  you  $3  a 

year  over  dentifrices  in  the  50<r  class, 

en  the  basis  of  a  tube   per  month 

per   person.   Lambert   Pharmacol 

Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  U.  S.  A. 


Listerine 
TOOTH 
PASTE 


Buy  gloves  with 
that  $3  it  saves 

There  ore  jo  many  things  you  con 
buy  wifh  that  $3  you  io»e  by  using 
Listerine  Tooth  Paste  at  25f  instead 
of  dentifrices  in  the  50*  class. 
Cloves    are    merely   a    suggestion. 


86 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


A  top  o'  the  morning  treat 

GET  OFF  to  a  flying  start  for  the  day.  Heap  Kellogg's  Pep  Bran 
Flakes  high  in  your  bowl.  Float  them  in  cream.  And  then  taste 
them.  You'll  wonder  how  bran  flakes  could  taste  so  good! 

And  look  what  you  get  in  every  serving.  Three  vital  elements! 
Here's  crunchy  whole  wheat  to  nourish  you.  Here's  extra  bran 
to  help  keep  you  fit  —  just  enough  to  be  mildly  laxative.  And 
above  all,  here's  the  matchless  taste  of  PEP  —  the  wonderful 
flavor  that  only  Kellogg's  Pep  Bran  Flakes  have. 

Vim,  health,  and  marvelous  flavor  all  combined.  That's  why 
Kellogg's  Pep  Bran  Flakes  are  so  good  to  eat  and  so  good  for 
you.  That's  why  they  are  better  bran  Hakes.  Children  love  them 
and  so  will  you. 

Serve  them  often  for  breakfast.  Enjoy  them  at  lunch.  Make 
them  the  main  dish  for  the  children's  supper.  The  more  of  them 
you  eat  —  the  more  you'll  agree  that  Kellogg's  Pep  Bran  Flakes 
are  the  best  bran  flakes  you  ever  ate. 

Sold  by  all  grocers.  In  the  red-and-green  package.  Made  by 
Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 


You'll  enjoy  Kellogg's  Slumber  Music,  broadcast  over  WJZ  and  associated 

stations  of  the  N.  B.  C.  every  Sunday  evening  at  10.30  E.  D.  S.  T.  Also  KFI 

Los  Angeles,  komo  Seattle  at  10.00,  and  koa  Denver  at  10.30. 


<$*&  PEP 


BRAN 
FLAKES 


J  o  b  y  n  a 

and 

Dick 


WHEN  Jobyna  Ralston 
married  Richard  Ar- 
len,  Paramount  star, 
back  in  \l>2~ ,  she  gave 
up  a  promising  »  reen  career  to 
settle  down  ami  become  merely 
"Dick  Arlen's  wife."  Since  then, 
Toby  has  turned  ber  talents  into 
housewifely  channels,  and  an  invi- 
tation to  one  of  ber  little  dinner 
parties  is  a  promise  of  good  food 
and  fun. 

She  believes  in  rather  simple 
menus,  except  for  formal  dinners. 
Here  is  a  typical  one: 

Caviar  Canapes  with  Celery 

Cream  of  Chestnut  Soup 

Fillets  of  Flounder 
with  Waffled  Potatoes 

Crown  of  Lamb  with  Puree  of  Peas 

Parsley  Potatoes 

Hot  Biscuits  with  Preserves 

Moulded  Russian  Salad 
with  Cheese  Sticks 

Coffee  Frappe 

Demi-tasse 

Crackers  and  Cheese 

Candy  and  Nuts 

Moulded  Russian 
Salad 

REDUCE  strong  consom- 
me so  that  when  cold  it 
will  be  jelly-like  in  con- 
sistency. Set  individual 
moulds  in  a  pan  of  ice  water. 
Tour  in  consomme  one-quar- 
ter inch  deep.  When  firm, 
decorate  bottom  and  sides 
of  moulds  with  cold  cooked 
carrots,  beets,  and  potatoes 
cut  in  fancy  shapes. 


\ 


i 


i.-Y 


■  V"<J 


PHOTOPLAY'S  photographer  catches  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  ijobyna  Ralston  i  Arlen  preparing  for  one  of 
those  Hollywood  orgies.  Their  guests  were  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Sue  Carol  Nick  Stuart,  Mary  Brian  and 
Buddy  Rogers.  Dinner  was  followed  by  a  scan- 
dalous evening  of  backgammon  but  probably  none 
of  the  neighbors  called  the  police 


By  Carolyn  Van  Wyck 


Photoplay  Magazine 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous 
Cook  Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the 
stars.    I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents 


Gi 


i  ve  a 


Party 

for  Six 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


Add  consomme  to  cover  vege- 
tables, and  as  soon  as  firm  fill 
moulds  two-thirds  full  of  any 
cooked  vegetables  that  may  be  at 
hand.  Add  consomme  by  sf>oon- 
fuls,  allowing  it  to  become  firm 
between  the  additions,  and  put  in 
enough  to  cover  vegetables. 

Chill  thoroughly,  remove  from 
moulds,  and  arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves.      Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Coffee  Frappe 

White  of  1  egg 

1  >  cup  cold  water 

1  ■_>  cup  coffee 

4  cups  boiling  water 

1  (  up  sugar 

i  white  of  egg  slightly 

cold  water  and  mix  with  coffee. 
Turn  into  scalded  coffee  pot,  add 
boiling  water,  and  let  boil  together 
one  minute.  Place  on  back  of 
Stove  ten  minutes  to  cool.  Then 
strain,   add   sugar,   and    fre< 

a  mush,  using  equal  parts  of 
md  salt. 
Serve    in    frappe    gl. 
with  whipped  cream  that  is 
sweetened  and  flavored. 

IF  any  of  your  guests  are  on 
a  reducing  diet  you  will 
have  to  make  some  cha 
in  the  Arlen  menu.  But  most 
people  have  learned  that  by 
eating  smaller  portions  of 
everything  they  need  not  de- 
prive themselves  of  any 
foods,  not  even  potatoes, 
bread  or  sweets. 

If  you  want  to  simplify  the 
menu,  you  can  substitute  a 
fruit  cocktail  for  the  caviar 
and  a  thin  soup  for  the  cream 
soup. 


88 


miui  look 
natuml 

SAYS   FRENCH  AUTHORITY 

"Let  us  caution  every  woman  who 
would  be  fashionable  this  season," 
says  Le  Jardin  des  Modes,  of  Paris, 
greatest    French  fashion    magazine. 

"Flashy,  glaring  lips  can  ruin  the 
effect  of  the  prettiest  and  most  ex- 
pensive ensemble.  The  Fashion  this 
season  is  individual,  romantic  and 
feminine. 

"Tangee  Lipstick  well  answers  these 
requirements  because  it  blends  with 
your  individual,  natural  coloring."  © 

Tangee,  the  world's  most  famous  Lipstick, 
SI.  Non-Greasy!  Natural!  Permanent! 
.Xi:ir!  Tangee  Theatrical,  a  special  dark 
shade  of  Tangee  Lipstick  for  professional 
and  evening  use. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 

These  New  Faces 

Watch  for  This    Each  Month 

WYNNE  GIBSON  ("June  Moon,"  Paramount)  is  counted  on  for  big 
things  on  the  Paramount  lot.  Wynne  began  in  the  theater  as  a 
musical  comedy  heroine,  playing  in  "The  Gingham  Girl"  and 
"Little  Jesse  James,"  among  others.  Paramount  has  discovered 
dramatic  talent  in  the  girl.  She's  five  feet,  two,  with  dark  hair, 
gray  eyes  and  a  lot  of  charm. 

RAY  MILLAND  ("The  Bachelor  Father,"  M-G-M)  was  born  in  Ireland, 
educated  in  Wales  and  calls  himself  British.  His  real  name  is 
Jack  Millane.  After  juvenile  labors  on  the  London  stage,  he 
appeared  in  several  British  pictures.  Coming  to  America,  his 
test  at  Metro  was  successful,  and  he  was  at  once  assigned  to  the 
Marion  Davies  comedv. 
■i  ^li    Fl 

SIDNEY  rUX  ("Bad  Sister,"  Universal)  scored  a  personal  success  on 
Broadway  at  eighteen,  in  the  farce  "Lost  Sheep."  Picture 
scouts  found  her,  and  at  nineteen  she  was  on  the  Universal  lot, 
under  contract.  She  weighs  only  ninety-four  pounds,  is  just  five 
feet  tall,  and  has  dark  brown  hair  and  eyes.  You'll  hear  from 
this  child! 

ALBKIGrl  1  ("Young  Sinners,"  Fox)  is  the  latest  able  young 
actor  from  the  New  York  stage  to  crash  the  talkies.  Fox  scouts 
saw  him  in  the  juvenile  lead  in  "The  Greeks  Had  a  W7ord  For 
It"  on  Broadway,  and  slapped  a  contract  on  him.  He's  twenty- 
six,  six  feet  tall,  weighs  160  pounds  and  has  brown  hair  and  blue 
eyes.     A  good  actor. 


LILIAN  BOND 


SEND   20<*  FOR   TANGEE   BEAUTY  SET  I  DOUGLAS   WALTON     ("Body   and   Soul,"   Fox)    was  born  in   Canada 


Containing    minia 

lire 

Lipstick,   two 

Roi 

ges,        • 

;         Powder,  two  Creams  ar 

d  "The  Art  of  M 

alee 

up."       ! 

i          Tun  George  W. 

I  •. 

FT    CO.,   DEPT. 

P5 

j   417  Fifth  Avenue 

New  York   j 

1     Nrtmr 

'     AdJmi                                                                                                    ! 

■T 


("Stepping  Out,"  M-G-M)  is  an  English  girl,  now  twenty- 
one,  who  began  her  theatrical  career  in  musical  shows,  like  so 
mam'  others.  Coming  to  New  York,  she  appeared  in  a  few  plays 
and  then  stepped  before  the  camera  in  the  cast  of  some  short 
subjects.  Her  looks  and  talents  got  her  a  nice  contract  with 
Metro  in  Hollvwood. 


ALEXANDER  KIRKLAND  ("The  Tarnished  Lady,"  Paramount)  is  a 
young  actor  who  scored  a  sensational  success  on  Broadway  in 
"Wings  Over  Europe"  a  few  years  ago.  Since  then  he  has  run  his 
own  stock  company,  and  now  makes  his  talkie  debut  opposite 
Tallulah  Bankhead  in  her  first  picture,  originally  called  "New 
York  Lady."    Alec  is  about  twenty-three. 

GLENDA  FARRELL  ("Little  Caesar,"  First  National)  shared  in  the  glory 
of  this  fine  picture  of  gangland  with  Edward  G.  Robinson.  It 
was  Glenda's  first  picture.  Following  this,  she  returned  to  New 
%   !  York  and  during  the  current  season  has  been  playing  in  "On  the 

Spot,"  an  Edgar  Wallace  melodrama,  with  Crane  Wilbur  and 
Anna  May  Wong. 


twerty-one  years  ago,  and  educated  in  the  mother  country. 
Made  his  stage  debut  in  London,  returned  to  Canada  and  played 
in  stock,  and  migrated  to  Hollywood  to  take  a  chance  on  breaking 
into  talkies.  He  did.  Walton  is  a  six-foot  blond.  Fox  has  him 
safelv  contracted  for.  ( 


PHOTOPl  \\    M  KG  \/im     I  <>k    M  \v.    1       I 


Baby  Teeth 

are  important... Mother 

Neglect  them  and  your  child  may  pay  the  penalty 
in  later  fife.    Here  is  some  helpful  information. 


Do  these  three  things... to 
have  strong,  healthy  teeth 


1  .  \t  the  left  are  some 
suggestions  of  what  is 
good  for  you.  2.  the  Pep- 
sodent twice  a  day.  3.  See 
your  dentist  twice  a  year 
(children  oftener  . 


M  1 1 ■  K  IS  abundant 
in  the  miiirr.il  which 
makes  up  the  major 
part  of  the  tooth. 


ORANGE  JUICE, 
the  beat  known  source 
of  vitamin  C;  aids  in 
keeping  gums   healthy. 


EGGS,  the  beat  nat- 
ural food  source  of  the 
sunshine  vitamin — also 
rich  in  iron. 


NO  mother  needs  to  be  told 
how  easily  the  first  (baby) 
teeth  decay.  What  many  do 
Dot  know  is  the  trouble  these 
teeth,  if  neglected,  may  cause  in 
later  years. 

To  be  safe  is  so  simple.  Take 
your  child  to  your  dentist  every 
few  months — immediately  should 
you  notice  the  slightest  sign  of 
decay  or  other  trouble.  Between 
times  make  sure  your  child  uses 
Pepsodent  toothpaste  night  and 
morning- — without  fail. 

Pepsodent—  especially  for  children 

Pepsodent  tooth  paste  is  espe- 
cially recommended  for  chil- 
dren. The  cleansing  agent  in 
sodent  was  developed  after 
thousands  of  experiments  and 
many  years  of  research.  It  pol- 
ishes enamel  to  a  brilliant  lustre. 
It  is  twice  as  soft  as  the  polish- 
ing agent  commonly  used  in 
tooth  pastes.  Pepsodent  is  su- 
premely safe,  as  hundreds  of 
laboratory  tests  on  teeth  have 
proved  conclusively. 


Pepsodt  nt  t<" >tli  |  the 

most  effective  way  of  removing 
the  troublesome  film  from  teeth, 
which  is  the  major  cause  of 
decay  and  other  serious  troul 

Film  holds  germs  of  decay 
against  the  teeth.  To  remove 
germs  you  must  remove  this 
dangerous  germ-laden  film. 

Film  ;  the  stains  from 

foods  and  fruits.  Removing  film 
makes  teeth  gleam  and  sparkle. 

Pepsodent — the  special  film- 
removing  dentifrice — is  the  sci- 
entific way  to  lovely,  healthy 
teeth  through  life. 


Amos  'n'  Andy  brought  u  by  Pepsodent 

night    except    Sunday   over    N.    B.    C 
network. 


Th"  1 

is  found  by  dental  research 
to  play  an  important  part  in  tooth  decay 

...  to  cause  unsightly  discolorations  on  enamel. 
It  must  be  removed  twice  daily. 


1  CpSOdCnt — the  special  film-removing  tooth  paste 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


At  9  feet— 


HOW   LOVELY! 

At  3  feet— 

WHY   DOESN'T 
SOMEONE   TELL  HER? 

?  ...  Is  the  woman  who  has  armpit 
odor  aware  of  it? — NO.  She  can  notice 
it  in  others.  Others  can  notice  it  in  her. 
She  can  seldom  notice  it  in  herself. 

?  ...  Is  it  safe  to  use  an  underarm  de- 
odorant? YES,  //you  use  Nonspi.  This 
deodorant  contains  an  ingredient  not  found 
in  any  other  which  makes  it  do  its  work 
better,  more  safely.  In  fact,  it  is  the  one 
deodorant  pronounced  both  safe  and 
effective  by  competent  medical  authority. 

?  .  .  .  How  long  does  one  application 
last?  72  hours  (3  days).  You  need  to  use 
Nonspi  only  twice  a  week  to  be  always 
free  from  armpit  odor,  always  free  from 
the  danger  of  staining  costly  frocks. 

?  .  .  .  Can  I  try  Nonspi?  YES.  Send  10c 
for  a  generous  trial  bottle,  enough  for  two 
or  three  weeks.  Or  start  today;  get  a  full- 
sized  50c'  bottle,  at  any  drug  or  dept.  store. 


IN    1 


The  Nonspi  Co., 
Depurtment  5-E 
11}  II".  18th  St., 
NEW    YORK. 


NONSPI 

THE    SAFE 
DEODORANT 


prevents    perspiration 


Short  Subjects 

of  the  Month 

IT'S  the  day  of  the  sport  subject  in  shorts.  Bobby  Jones  is 
beginning  his  Vitaphone  series;  Bill  Tilden,  the  great 
tennis  player,  is  on  the  Coast  for  Metro,  and  Johnny  Farrell, 
famous  golf  pro,  is  making  a  series  for  Pathe  release. 

One  of  Johnny's  pictures  is  reviewed  in  this  department 
this  month. 


IN  THE  ROUGH 

Pathe 

This  is  the  third  short  Johnny  Farrell,  the 
golf  pro,  has  made.  He  goes  round  a  Florida 
course,  keeping  up  a  running  fire  of  talk  with 
his  caddie,  explaining  shots.  And  Johnny 
makes  some  marvelous  ones  in  this,  and  on  the 
up  and  up.    A  swell  short. 

THE  BRIDE'S  MISTAKE 

Sennett-Educational 

A  whirlwind  comedy  of  the  old  chase  school, 
with  peppy  Marjorie  Beebe  doing  most  of  the 
rough  work.  The  automobile  ride  she  takes 
with  the  goofy  Dr.  Grim  is  a  thrilling  affair. 
Big,  gusty  sighs  of  relief  when  Marj  emerges 
from  the  gas  tank,  safe. 

LA  UGHING  GRA  VY 

Hal  Roach-M-G-M 

This  time  Messrs.  Laurel  and  Hardy  carry 
on  their  droll  idiocies  in  a  rooming-house.  The 
owner  doesn't  crave  dogs — and  the  boys  have 
one.  The  resulting  complications,  including 
Mr.  Hardy  in  a  snow  storm  and  a  nightshirt, 
are  howls. 

EX-PLUMBER 

Educational 

Lloyd  Hamilton  again,  but  not  so  good  this 
time.  He  just  can't  help  getting  involved 
with  a  lovely  lady,  and  his  wife  is  no  great 
help  to  his  peace  of  mind.  Mitchell  Lewis 
plays  a  comedy  Russian  count,  and  Addie 
McPhail  is  the  little  wifie. 

SHE  WENT  FOR  A  TRAMP 

Radio  Pictures 

Don't  rush  out  of  the  theater  when  this 
title  flashes  on  the  screen,  for  you're  going  to 
be  vastly  entertained.  The  featured  comics 
are  Hugh  Herbert  and  Roscoe  Ates,  the  latter 
famous  as  the  stuttering  barber  in  "Cimarron." 
Good  short. 

DOG- A -LOG 

Universal 

This  is  a  great  one  for  the  kiddies.  It's  a 
very  pleasant  little  comedy  involving  a  cute 
youngster  named  Bobby  Nelson  and  his  pup, 
Mutt.  They  dream  of  all  kinds  of  high  ad- 
venture, and  we  have  a  hunch  elders  will  like 
it,  too. 

CHICKENS  COME  HOME 

Hal  Roach-M-G-M 

Our  friend  Hardy  has  gone  into  politics, 
and  Stan  Laurel  is  his  dumb  business  manager. 
Just  as  Hardy  is  about  to  be  elected  Mayor, 
a  touj;h  baby  from  his  past  bobs  up.  Plenty- 
fun  follows.  Thelma  Todd  and  Mae  Busch, 
in  support.     Swell  and  riotous. 


LIME  JUICE  NIGHTS 
Radio  Pictures 
Karl  Dane  and  George  K.  Arthur  move  into 
a  London  night  club  and  raise  thunder  and 
things.  Georgie  is  a  waiter,  and  Karl  is  a 
stewy  patron  with  a  pretty  wife.  Imagine  the 
complications.  It's  a  well-gagged  comedy,  and 
makes  you  laugh. 

MASQUERADE 

Warners- Vitaphone  Variety 

One  of  the  month's  two-reel  dramas. 
Vivienne  Osborne,  well-known  stage  leading 
woman,  does  a  lot  of  emoting  in  the  course  of 
the  picture,  and  our  villainous  old  friend,  Roy 
D'Arcy,  reappears  in  a  brief  role.  There  are 
even  a  couple  of  songs!    Mild. 

A  FOWL  AFFAIR 

Christie 

This  must  be  the  last  step  in  animal  com- 
edies. Now  chickens  and  ducks  are  dressed 
up  in  pants  and  skirts  and  told  to  act  pretty. 
It's  a  rural  melodrama,  not  very  new  or 
funny,  but  the  dubbed-in  human  voices  help 
laughter  along  somewhat. 

THE  FATAL  CORD 

Paramount 

Eugene  and  Willie  Howard,  comedians  of 
many  a  Broadway  review,  star  in  a  labored, 
simple  sort  of  comedy  about  four  men  adrifh» 
on  a  raft,  who  play  cards  to  see  who  wins  the 
last  water  and  biscuit.  Willie's  dialect  is  good 
for  some  spotty  laughter. 

THE  DOG  DOCTOR 

Sennett-Educational 

You  are  advised  to  see  Andy  Clyde  in  this 
one,  surrounded  by  a  yelping,  gamboling  crowd 
of  mutts.  As  the  lovable  old  veterinarian, 
forced  to  sell  out  his  business  to  satisfy  his 
wife's  social  aspirations,  he  almost  forces  tears 
among  the  laughs. 

CHECK  AND  RUBBER  CHECK 

Columbia 

Another  of  the  Eddie  Buzzell  series  that 
Columbia  has  been  putting  out — directed  and 
acted  in  by  the  split-pint  comedian.  This 
short  consists  of  continuous  and  rapid  wise- 
cracking by  Eddie — in  fact,  he's  99.44  per 
cent  of  the  picture. 

FEELING  FIT 

Universal 

This  comedy  stars  Lloyd  Hamilton,  but 
fails  to  bring  out  the  best  of  the  big  boy's 
talents.  First  he  is  a  gardener,  and  then  an 
accident  lands  him  in  a  crazy-house  instead  of 
a  hospital.  Complications,  plenty.  A  comic 
named  Bill  Franey  gets  laughs. 


PhOTOPL  M    M  IG  \/im.    i  01    .M  I .  ,    1       1 


0  1 


luil  Luick,  bead  costume  designer  t<>r 
i  Brotben  and  First  National 
Studios,  <  rt.it  l-s  many  >>t  the  gown*  worn 
by  sins  .>i  the  ^  reen.  Hit  original 
models  are  often  made  ol  Skinner's  Silks. 


JHooeli 
masterpieces 


"The  flowing  beauty  of  Skinner's   Chiffon,  and  other 

Skinner  :.  of  material  assistance  to  me  in  achiev- 

he  subtle,  graceful  lines  so  essential  to  distinctive  effects. 

.  .  .  EARL  LUICK 


WOMEN  even, -where  are  becoming  more  and 
more  conscious  of  the  clothes  worn  by  Ameri- 
can screen  actresses.  One  reason  is  the  originality  of 
famous  Hollywood  designers  in  interpreting  the 
mode  of  the  moment.  Another  is  their  unusual  care 
in  the  selection  of  fabrics.  Nothing  short  of  the 
best  will  do.  Hence,  in  silks,  a  preference  for  those 
bearing  the  name  Skinner. 

WILLIAM  SKINNER  &  SONS 

New  York  ChklgO         Boston  Philadelphia         Sin  Frincisco 

Mills,  Holyokc.  Mass.  Estab.  1848 


Skinner's 

Silks 


Crepes 
Crepe  S.uins 


Georgettes 
Shantungs 


Chiffons 
Sport  Fabrics 


Obtainable  by  the  yard  at  leading  silk  departments.  Also 
in    ready-to-weat    dresses    and    ensembles  at  smart  shops. 


"LOOK  FOR  THE  NAME  IN  THE  SELVAGE" 


Q 


uestions 


&  A 


nswers 


Read  This  Before 
Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call 

for    unduly    lout;   answers, 

such  as  synopsi     of  plays. 

Do  not  inquire  concerning 

religion,    scenario    writing, 

idio  employment. 

Write  cm  only  our  side  of 

ler.     sign  your  full 

name  and  address.    If  you 

want  a  personal   reply,    be 

inclose  a  stamped, 

self  addressed     envelope. 


Ann  Harding  and  Clive  Brook  in  "East  Lynne" — the  talkie 

version  of  the  old  melodrama  which  has  caused  ecstatic 

comment  this  month 


Casts  and 
Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much 
we  treat  such  sub- 
jects in  a  different  way  from 
other  questions.  For  this 
kind  of  information,  a 
stamped,  addressed  en- 
velope must  always  be  sent. 
Address  all  inquiries  to 
Questions  and  Answers, 
Pbotopi  '-'.  M  \(.  IZD 
W. 57th  St.,New  York  City. 


EAST  LYNNE"  — the  old  melodrama 
of  bygone  days,  lost  none  of  its  appeal 
in  the  talkie  version.  The  fans  ac- 
claimed it  as  one  of  the  finest  pictures  yet 
made,  and  were  strong  for  Ann  Harding — an 
Ann  exquisitely  beautiful  in  the  costumes  of 
our  grandmothers'  day  and  giving  such  a 
sincere  and  unutterably  sad  performance  as  the 
tragic  Lady  Isabel.  Oh,  the  weeping  that  was 
done! 

Ann  Harding  has  that  same  quiet  air  of 
sincerity  off  the  screen  as  she  brings  to  the 
roles  she  plays.  Her  eyes  are  gray-blue  and 
she  has  never  bobbed  her  hair,  which  is  a 
beautiful  ash-blonde.  She  is  five  feet,  two 
inches  tall  and  weighs  106  pounds.  You're 
going  to  see  a  lot  of  her  in  the  future;  she  has 
signed  a  new  long  term  contract  with  RKO- 
Pathe.  Ann  is  married  to  Harry  Bannister,  an 
actor  whom  Pathe  has  also  put  under  contract, 
and  she  has  one  small  daughter,  whom  she 
adores.  While  you're  reading  this,  Ann  will 
be  working  on  "What  Every  Woman  Knows" 
— Barrie's  play  which  Lois  Wilson  made  in 
the  old  silent  days. 

THELMA   WllITTAKER,   NEW    ORLEANS,    La.: 

Marlene  Dietrich's  picture,  "Dishonored,"  is 
somewhat  reminiscent  of  the  life  of  Mata  Hari, 
the  famous  international  spy.  Garbo  is  sched- 
uled to  play  a  similar  character  in  the  near 
future. 

Mildred  Wii.lhoite,  Fort  Worth,  Tex.: 
The  present  Mrs.  Dick  is  Jessica  Sargent. 
Mary  Hay  was  the  first  Mrs.  Richard  Barthel- 
mess  and  they  have  one  little  daughter.  Dick 
was  born  May  9,  1897.  He  has  just  finished 
a  picture  at  First  National,  called  "The 
Finger  Points." 

Blanche  Ccrran,  Baltimore,  Md.:  Alice 
White's  last  picture  was  "The  Widow  from 
Chicago."  Yes,  sure  enough,  Charlie  Farrell 
married  Virginia  Yalli  and  they're  honeymoon- 
ing now  in  F.urope. 

Angelina  Oisee,  Kensington7,  Conn.: 
There's  no  doubt  about  that  picture  you  sent 
in  being  none  other  than  ZaSu  Pitts. 

Sarah  F.  Snow,  Philadelphia,  Penna.: 
Douglas  Fairbanks  divorced  Beth  Still v  in 
1918  and  married  Mary  in  1920.  Beth  Sully 
married  James  Evans,  Jr.,  but  later  divorced 
him  and  is  now  Mrs.  Jack  Whiting. 

Mary  Helen  Graves,  Statesvtlle,  X.  C: 

The  two  soit^s  in  "Morocco"  sung  so  entrant"  - 
ingly  by  Marlene  were  called  "Apples"  and 
"Give  Me  the  Man."  Gary  Cooper's  next 
picture  will  be  "City  Streets." 

U.J 


Mrs.  A.  W.  W.,  Detroit,  Mich.:  Fredric 
March  was  born  Frederick  Mclntyre  Bickel. 
He  is  married  to  Florence  Eldridge  and  they 
have  no  children  as  yet.  Gladys  Walton  was 
born  April  13,  1904.  She  has  been  married 
twice  and  has  two  daughters  by  her  second 
marriage. 

Peggy  Anne  Bedill,  Toronto,  Canada: 
Here's  the  lowdown,  Peggy,  on  Kent  Douglass. 
He  was  born  in  Los  Angeles,  Calif.,  Oct.  29, 
1908 — the  same  year  as  Joan  Crawford.  He 
is  six  feet  tall  and  weighs  170  pounds.  His 
hair  is  blond  and  his  eyes  are  hazel  and  he  is 
not  married.  He  was  on  the  stage  prior  to  his 
movie  debut  in  "Paid"  and  we're  all  hoping, 
like  you,  to  see  a  lot  more  of  him.  His  real 
name  is  Robert  Douglass  Montgomery. 

E.  Jensen,  Detroit,  Mich.:  Walter  Huston 
was  born  in  Toronto,  Canada,  and  hasn't 
changed  his  name.  He  is  married  and  has 
one  son. 

Paul  Bryant,  Princeton,  Ind.:  The  cute 
little  French  girl  in  "Half  Shot  at  Sunrise" 
was  Dorothy  Lee,  now  under  contract  to  Radio 
Pictures.  Her  real  name  is  Marjorie  Millsap, 
and  I'm  sorry  to  have  to  tell  you,  Paul,  that 
she's  married.  Way  back  in  1930  she  became 
Mrs.  James  Fidler.  She  is  five  feet  tall  and 
weighs  all  of  97  pounds.  Before  going  into 
pictures  in  1929,  she  was  on  the  stage. 

Emily  Miguez,  Xew  Iberia,  La.:  June 
Walker,  or  Mrs.  Geoffrey  Kerr,  was  born  in 
1904  in  Xew  York  City. 

Yincenzo  La  Montia,  Toronto,  Canada: 
You're  wrong  about  Olive  Borden — she's  not 
hiding,  she's  rehearsing  very  hard  for  a  stage 
play  in  Xew  York.  Richmond,  Ya.,  was  her 
birthplace  in  the  year  1907.  Rudy  Yalentino's 
brother  is  not  making  pictures.  There  are  a 
number  of  Italian  actors  appearing  in  foreign 
versions  in  Hollywood. 

June  F.  Pi  iwell, Brooklyn,  X.  Y. :  Richard 
Cromwell  was  born  in  Los  Angeles  twenty 
years  ago.  He  has  light  brown  hair  and  gray- 
blue  eyes  and  is  five  feet,  ten  inches  tall.  His 
name  is  really  Roy  Radabaugh. 

R.  Wiener,  Newark,  X.  J.:  Lew  Ay  res  has 

impressed  a  lot  of  people  as  he  has  you.  He 
was  born  in  Minneapolis,  Minn.,  Dec.  28, 
1909,  and  was  educated  at  the  San  Diego 
High  School  and  afterwards  at  the  University 
of  Arizona.  He  just  misses  6  feet  by  an  inch, 
and  weighs  1 55  pounds.  His  hair  is  dark  brown 
and  his  eyes  are  dark  blue.  Before  going  into 
movies,  he  was  a  banjo  player  in  an  orchestra. 


Kenny  Gilmore,  Toronto,  Canada:  Don't 
argue  any  more,  Kenny.  Just  tell  your  friend 
that  Rin-Tin-Tin  is  very  much  alive  and  earn- 
ing SI  ,250  for  his  master  in  vaudeville.  That's 
a  dog  for  you ! 

"Doting"  Dotty',  Greenville,  Ohio: 
Ronald  Colman  entered  pictures  in  America  in 
1922.  He  was  married  at  that  time,  but  has 
since  separated  from  his  wife,  Thelma  Raye, 
who  lives  in  England.  She  has  a  child  by  a 
former  marriage.  Ronnie  lives  in  Hollywood 
and  has  a  beach  house  also — at  Malibu.  We 
wouldn't  know  about  his  lady  friends. 

Robert  M.  Anderson,  Xew  H.we.n, 
Conn.:  Well,  Bob,  it's  hard  to  tell  whether 
Ruth  Chatterton  and  Clive  Brook  will  co-star 
together  again.  Ruth  has  only  three  more 
pictures  to  do  with  Paramount  and  then  she 
moves  her  make-up  box  over  to  Warner  Bros. 
They  certainly  were  great  together. 

Dorothy  Hcen,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.:  X'or- 
man  Foster  was  the  "young  man"  in  "Young 
Man  of  Manhattan."  Claudette  Colbert  is 
his  missus. 

J.  F.  Bromund,  New  York  City,  N.  Y.: 
Marie  Dressler's  real  name  is  Lelia  Koerber. 
She  was  born  in  Coburg,  Canada. 

Barbara  Pipes,  Washington,  D.  C:  "I'll 
Bring  a  Love  Song"  was  the  name  of  the 
theme  song  in  "Yiennese  Xights. " 

Dora  Ireland,  Toronto,  Canada:  There 
are  two  William  Boyds — one,  the  older,  is 
known  as  William  1  stage  1  Boyd.  The  other, 
informally  known  as  "Bill,"  is  married  to 
Dorothy  Sebastian. 

Hans  Lewis,  Luray.  Ya.:  Jack  Holt  was 
born  in  Winchester,  Va.;  Bebe  Daniels  in 
Dallas,  Tex. 

Hope.  Xew  York  City.  X".  Y. :  Don't  bother 
about  pictures,  Hope.  Stay  at  home  and  look 
after  your  two  children.  There  are  a  great 
many  people  without  jobs  in  Hollywood  now. 

Ann  Rondelii.  Chicago,  III.:  The  last 
news  we  had  of  Percy  Marmont  was  from 
London,  where  he  is  appearing  in  a  stage  play. 

Mrs.  Elizareth  Wilson,  Detroit,  Mich.: 
Lewis  Stone  has  been  married  three  times. 
He  first  married  Margaret  Langham,  then 
Florence  Oakley  and  just  a  few  months  ago 
he  married  Hazel  Woof.  He  has  two  daughters 
and  that's  his  real  name.  Buck  Jones  has 
had  one  marriage  and  one  daughter. 


riloiOPI.AV    .\1  VGAZINE    1  OH    .\  1  \V,     I        I 


93 


^/ toppii  Wcunja//;  o  evea  under  trie  jvjtl 


MY    MA.WKQI  IX.    SAYS     FHA.X  FS     IX.KAM.     SHOWS     WHY 

Qnw  tf  licauliit  .skin  can  Atcni  uoiina 


llv   Iranci's   lii-r.-ini 

Inly   every   woman    La   tlic   land 
would  d  .-  three  <l. 

with   them  a  year  ago     in   May     Jt  a 
better    week-end.  One    U    about 
fort)  ,  one  in  her  thirties,  the  other 
to   twenty.  They    were  going   CO   have 
the  most  delightful  summer,  at  N'arra- 

t.  Hut  tins  tiling  of  coming 

in  September,  with  skin  drv,  coarsened 

It  wind  and  glaring  sun'  II 

prevent  th.it'. 

"You  help  us.  Remember,  we  don't 
intend  to  s|\:nd  our  summer  days  in  a 
beauty  salon!"' 

Well— they  did  follow  my  method 
with  Milkweed  Cream,  all  thl 
June  and  July  and  August.  And  in  the 
fall  I  saw  the  youngest  again.  "You're 
a  dear,"  she  said.  "Look  at  my  skin. 
Could  you  guess  I'd  had  a  summer  at  the 
shore?  And  mother  and  Aunt  I 
were  as  lovely-looking  in  their  evening 
frocks  as  in  sports  clothes — all  summer. 
Skin  as  soft  and  radiant  as  the  day  they 
were  horn!  Wait  until  you  sec  them! 
You're  a  wonder!" 

Of  course  I'm  not  a  wonder.  But  I  do 
think  tli.it  Milkweed  Cream  is  wonder- 
ful li  you  use  it  every  night  as  a  cleans- 
ing cream.  And  then  -  all  this  at  home, 
in  just  a  few  minutes! — film  your  skin 
afresh  with  it  and  follow  mv  starred 
instructions  for  keeping  the  skin  young 
and  firm  at  the  six  places  where  time 
will  first  leave  its  fingerprints. 

So  many,  many  women  tell  rac — write 
me — that  Milkweed  Cream  is  a  marvel- 
ous cleansing  cream  and  equally  marvel- 
ous for  toning  the  skin  and  erasing  the 
tiny  lines  which  might  otherwise  deepen 
into  wrinkles.  Won't  jou  try  it? 


the   imsim  \i>  —  To  guard  against  lines 
and  :.  .-."/)  Milkweed  ( 

Stroking  with  fingertips,    outward  from  the 
center  of  your  brow. 

THE  El  i /    |  n  would  atvid  aging  crows' 

feet.    ■  -.mi's  about  the  eyes,  stroke 

U  ith  a  father  touch  outward,  beneath  eyes 
and  over  eyelids. 


tup.  vol  th  —  Droofing  lines  are  emsii 

the  finger /:. 
and sliding  I Inn:  upuard  cur  tlje  mon: 

tit nard  touard  the  ears,  starting  at 
the  middle  of  the  chin. 

i  m    throat — To  keep  your  throat  from 
flabbr:  ■   iisl)    with   M: 

and  j rem  the  h'-iiow  at  the  base,  stroke  up- 
U/atJ  toward  the  chin. 


it 


INGRAM'S 


TTLlfkioeecU  Cream 

THRtE  SIZES..  5  Ct.  •  $!  •  .Sl-75 


Tin  i  iun  — T tpmntt  a  sagging  chin,  stroke 
■xngertips  catered  with  t  from 

under  the  chin  ouluard,  under  the  jaubone. 
d  the  tars.   Then  pat  firmly  under  the 

chin  and  along  the  jaw  contours. 

Tin:   Mini  inns To  hate  shoulders  that 

are  blemish-free  and  firmly  smooth,  cleanse 

Cream  and  massage 
palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion. 


Frans  fs  Ingram.  Dcrt.  AM 
108  Washington  St.,  N.  Y.  C 

At  10: 15,  each  Tuesday,  tune  in  on  WJZ  or  associ- 
ate I  N.B.C.  stations,  to  hear'Through  the  Looking 
Glass  with  Frances  Ingram. "  Send  tor  her  free  book- 
let "Why  Only  a  Healthy  Sk:n  Can  Stay  Young." 



Address 


vt 


Rules  of  $2,000  Story  Contest 


'  * 


.   i 

/ 

*  Flatter 
your  eyes 

cwacL  cleat  b&  ajacud. 

LflSHGS 
STAY  SOFT 

Jcst  A  TOUCH  of  darkening  shadow  on  lashes 
— what  can  be  more  flattering?  It  brings  out 
the  beauty,  the  luster,  the  lije  of  your  eyes. 

But  —  ordinary  cosmetiques  so  often  look 
unnatural — "made-up."  So  often  they  make 
lashes  brittle  and  stiff  .  .  . 

Now — a  new  cosmetique  has  been  created 
which  gives  lashes  a  Double  Treatment.  First, 
it  darkens  lashes — with  a  soft,  delicate  and 
absolutely  natural  touch.  Then  it  sojlcns 
lashes.  Of  course,  "brittle"  or  coarse  lashes 
are  impossible  with  a  cosmetique  which  ac- 
tually keeps  lashes  soft  .  .  , 

This  utterly  different  cosmetique  is  the 
new  Liquid  Winx.  Now  for  sale  at  drug  and 
department  stores. 


Liquid  Winx  is  absolutely  water- 
prooj.  It  won  t  smudge  or  smear. 
75  cents.  For  those  who  prejer  the 
solid  Jorm  cosmetique,  Winx  offers 
Cuke.  It  is  packed  m  a  charming 
stl.'ery  compact  which  fits  into  the 
flattest  luxndbag.  $1. 


For 
X^ovely 
hashes 


See  Pages  52-53 


1.  Stories  must  he  submitted  in  typewrit- 
ing. They  can  be  from  1 ,000  to  5.000  words  in 
length,  but  must  not  exceed  5,000  words.  All 
stories  should  be  written  on  one  side  of  the 
sheets  of  paper  and  mailed  in  a  postpaid 
envelope  to: 

Judges,  Photoplay  Magazine-Warner  Bros. 

Story  Contest,  221  West  57th  Street, 

Xew  York  City. 

2.  Stories  should  not  be  submitted  before 
May  15th,  and  the  Contest  will  close  at  mid- 
night on  July  15th. 

3.  Stories  will  be  read,  prior  to  award  of 
prizes,  only  by  the  Judges  of  the  Contest  and 

ons  employed  by  them  for  that  purpose. 
The  Judges  of  the  Contest  will  submit  such 
stories  to  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  the 
Judges  deem  suitable  for  picture  purposes.  No 
stories  will  be  returned  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
Contest.  They  may  at  the  option  of  Photo- 
play Magazine  be  destroyed  or  kept  on  file. 

4.  Every  story  must  be  signed  with  the  full 
name  of  the  person  submitting  the  same  and 
must  be  accompanied  by  the  form  or  a  copy  of 
the  form  which  appears  on  this  page,  per- 
sonally signed  by  the  contestant,  together  with 
his  or  her  full  address,  in  which  the  contestant 
agrees  to  the  conditions  set  forth  therein  and 
herein.  These  rules  and  the  form  should  be 
read  carefully  by  contestants  before  submis- 
sion. 

5.  Everyone,  whether  a  subscriber  or 
reader  of  Photoplay  Magazine  or  not,  may 
enter  this  Contest,  except  persons  in  any  way 
connected  with  Photoplay  Magazine  or  War- 
ner Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  their  relatives  or  mem- 
bers of  their  households,  or  anyone  actively 
employed  in  the  production  department  of  any 
other  motion-picture  company. 

6.  The  Board  of  Judges  shall  consist  of 
three  persons  to  be  chosen  by  the  Editor  of 
Photoplay  Magazine.  The  decision  of  the 
Judges  shall  be  final. 

7.  The  winner  of  the  Contest  shall  receive 
S2.000  in  cash.  In  case  of  a  tie  equal  prizes  of 
S2,000  each  shall  be  awarded  to  each  tying 
contestant. 

8.  It  is  the  desire  of  Warner  Bros.  Pictures, 
Inc.,  to  secure  as  many  original  stories  suited 
for  dramatic  purposes  as  is  possible.  It  is  un- 
derstood that  the  Editor  of  Photoplay  Maga- 
zine or  the  Judges  of  this  Contest  will  submit 
to  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  such  stories  in 
addition  to  the  one  selected  as  winner  of  the 
prize  as  they  or  any  of  them  deem  suited  for 
dramatic  purposes.  It  is  understood  that 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  pay  an  equal 
prize  of  $2,000  for  each  such  story,  if  any,  as  is 
so  submitted  to  and  approved  by  it  and  used 
by  it  for  the  production  of  a  motion  picture 
based  wholly  upon  such  story. 

9.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  will  donate 
the  prize  or  prizes  which  Photoplay  Magazine 


will  pay  for  the  winning  story  and  for  such  ad- 
ditional stories,  if  any,  as  may  be  selected  by 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  hereinabove 
mentioned.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures.  Inc.,  will 
be  entitled  to  full  and  complete  rights  of  every 
nature  for  any  and  all  purposes  throughout  the 
world  in  and  to  all  stories  submitted  as  well 
as  to  use  the  name  of  any  successful  contestant 
in  connection  therewith.  Warner  Bros.  Pic- 
tures, Inc.,  may  use  any  story  in  whole  or  in 
part,  alter  the  same,  change  the  title,  and  re- 
a.uire  the  execution  of  any  papers  by  any  suc- 
cessful contestant  which  it  deems  necessary  or 
expedient. 

10.  There  is  always  danger  that  contestants 
become  so  convinced  of  the  merit  or  originality 
of  their  own  stories  or  ideas  that  they  are  sus- 
picious when  they  see  something  approximat- 
ing theirs  which  may  come  from  another 
source.  To  avoid  all  questions  of  this  sort  or 
of  any  other  character  whatsoever,  all  con- 
testants must  submit  and  will  be  deemed  to 
have  submitted  their  story  or  stories  and  ideas 
upon  the  distinct  agreement  and  understanding 
that  neither  Photoplay  Magazine  nor  Warner 
Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  be  liable  in  any  way 
save  to  pay  such  prize  or  prizes  as  may  be 
awarded  and  that  said  Photoplay  Magazine 
and  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  are  released 
from  any  and  all  liability  for  any  cause  or  rea- 
son by  each  contestant. 

11.  Every  effort  will  be  made  by  the  Editor 
of  Photoplay  Magazine  and  the  Judges  to 
make  this  Contest  as  fair  and  open  as  possible 
and  to  conduct  it  in  strict  accordance  with  the 
Pules  of  the  Contest.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures, 
Inc.,  will  simply  donate  the  prize  or  prizes  and 
will  be  under  no  obligation  either  legal  or  moral 
to  do  anything  except  to  donate  the  same. 

12.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  not  be 
bound  to  use  any  of  the  stories  even  if  they 
win  prizes  and  shall  not  be  bound  to  produce  a 
motion  picture  from  the  prize  winning  story  or 
any  story  that  may  be  selected  and  paid  for  by 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  aforesaid.  All 
copyrightable  matter  and  all  rights  therein,  in- 
cluding the  copyright  and  the  right  to  secure 
and  renew  the  same,  shall  be  the  property  of 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc. 

13.  Stories  expressed  in  exactly  the  same 
language  or  slight  variations  of  the  same  lan- 
guage, which  would  seem  to  indicate  collusion 
between  different  individuals,  shall  not  be  sub- 
mitted although  any  one  person  may  submit 
stories  based  upon  the  same  central  ideas  but 
having  different  treatments. 

14.  Xo  profane,  immoral,  libelous  or  copy- 
righted matter  shall  be  submitted. 

15.  While  facility  of  writing  and  style  of  ex- 
pression are  not  necessary  to  the  winning  of 
the  prize,  the  clearness  and  specific  quality  of 
the  story  or  idea  will  be  considered. 

16.  Any  single  individual  may  submit  any 
number  of  stories. 


IMPORTANT 


This  Coupon  or  copy  of  this  Coupon 
must  accompany  each  story 


In  submitting  the  accompanying  story  as  a  con- 
testant for  the  cash  prize  offered  by  Photoplay 
ne,  I  agree  to  all  of  the  terms  and  conditions 
contained  in  the  "Rules  of  the  Contest"  as  pub- 
lished in  said  magazine,  which  terms  and  conditions 
I  acknowledge  1  have  read,  and  in  consideration  of 
the  conduct  of  said  Contest  and  of  my  story  being 
examine.!  and  considered  in  said  Contest.  1  hereby 
release  said  Photoplay  Magazine,  Photoplay 
Publishing  Co.  and  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc., 
from  any  and  all  claims  or  liability,  present  or 
future,  by  reason  of  any  use  or  asserted  use  thereof, 
in  whole  or  in  part,  in  any  form  or  manner,  by  cither 
of  them,  except  from  payment  of  a  prize  if  awarded 
to  me. 

1  state  that  this  story  is  wholly  original  with  me. 


I  hereby  grant  and  assign  this  story  and  all  of 
my  rights  of  even-  nature  therein  throughout  the 
world  to  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co.  and  War- 
ner Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  together  with  the  exclu- 
sive right  to  use  same  in  any  form  or  manner,  and 
the  right  to  adapt,  add  to  or  substract  therefrom, 
without  any  compensation  to  me  or  my  legal  repre- 
sentatives, save  for  a  prize  of  S2.000  if  such  prize 
is  awarded  to  me,  pursuant  to  the  "Rules  of  the 
Contest." 


L.  S. 


Address 


i    niiinri    n     .w  v    \/  i  n  i      i  i  >  tc     .w  \  \ 


m     'lAACXyWAA       Mxyw) 


95 


MODESS 

FOR  THE  SMART 

YOUNG  SET 


THE  smartest  young  things  arc  using  Modess 
these  days — because  they  don't  have  to 
worry  about  it.  Like  their  mothers,  they  I 
Modess  has  everything  necessary  to  make  it  the 
safest  sort  of  sanitary  convenience-  perfect 
protection — complete  comfort — deodorant — 
easily  disposable.  Modess  can  be  worn  under 
the  scantiest  frocks  without  being  the  least  bit 
conspicuous. 

There  are  two  types  of  Modess — Regular  and 
the  new  Compact.  Modess  Regular  is  standard 
thickness.  Thousands  of  women  already  know 
that  it  is  the  best  possible  sort  of  sanitary 
protection. 

The  Compact  is  Modess  Regular  gently  com- 
pressed to  half  its  thickness.  It  is  designed  to 
supplement  the  Regular  for  wear  with  evening 
clothes — for  packing  in  the  week-end  bag— 
for  times  when  less  thickness  is  necessary. 
Many  women — and  young  girls  particularly — 
will  find  that  the  Compact  is  satisfactory  at  all 
times. 

The  next  time  you  buy,  try  a  box  of  each.  See 
whit  a  perfect  combination  they  are. 

U    NEW   BRUNSWICK     (J      N.  J  .  U   8.  A. 


Modess  Compact  and  Modess  Regular  are  packed  in  boxes 
of  tu  tlve — and  are  priced  the  same. 


A    m  i  n  ute 


a  one 


■■■and  MUM  ! 

that's  all  you  need 

for  complete  protection 

THE  old  days  when  women  thought  that 
frequent  bathing  and  a  dash  of  perfume 
or  talcum  was  protection  against  under- 
arm perspiration  odor,  are  gone  forever. 

And  how  glad  women  are!  What  a 
comfort  it  is  to  know  that  you  can 
carry  real  insurance  against  this  meanest 
of  Nature's  tricks. 

Mum!  A  minute  alone,  any  time,  any- 
where, and  you're  safe  from  that  odor 
which  always  marks  one  as — well,  at 
least  insensitive  to  the  nicer  refinements. 

That's  why  Mum  is  such  a  joy!  You 
can  use  it  while  you're  dressing.  No 
fussing,  no  waiting  for  it  to  dry. 

There's  nothing  in  Mum  that  can 
possibly  injure  fabrics.  And  there's 
nothing  in  it  that  irritates  the  skin — even 
a  sensitive  skin.  You  can  shave,  put  on 
Mum  at  once — and  never  a  smart  or  burn! 

Another  thing — you  know  how  odors 
cling  to  your  hands  when  you  prepare 
onions  or  fish  for  dinner,  or  when  you 
have  to  sponge  a  spot  with  gasoline.  Mum 
rubbed  on  the  hands  kills  every  lingering 
trace  of  odor  instantly! 

Carry  Mum  in  your  purse  with  your 
compact.  Have  underarm  niceness  always 
at  hand.  You  can  get  Mum  at  all  toilet 
goods  counters,  35c  and  60c.  Mum  Mfg. 
Co.,  Inc.,  80  Varick  St.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
Canadian  address,  Windsor,  Ont. 


SANITARY  NAPKIN  USE.  You  will  be 
grateful  to  know  that  Mum  on  the  san- 
itary  napkin  gives  complete  protection. 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Richard  Arlcn 
Jean  Arthur 

■    Bancroft 
Carman  Bar 
Clara  Bow 
Mary  Brian 
Martin  Burton 
Ruth  Chatterton 
June  Collyer 
Juliette  Compton 
Jackie  Coogan 
Robert  Coogan 
Can'  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlcnc  Dietrich 
Leon  Errol 
Stuart  Erwin 
Stanley  Fields 


Kay  Francis 
SkeetS  Gallagher 
Mitzi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Marcia  Manners 
Cyril  Maude 
Rosita  Moreno 
Jack  Oakie 
Guy  Oliver 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
Charles  Rogers 
Lilyan  Tashman 
Regis  Toomey 
Fay  Wray 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Luana  Alcaniz 
Michael  Bartlett 
Warner  Baxter 
Joan  Bennett 
Humphrey  Bogart 
El  Brcndel 
Lucile  Browne 
Robert  Burns 
Juan  Castle 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Joyce  Compton 
Roxanne  Curtis 
Donald  Dillaway 
Fifi  Dorsay 
Charles  Farrell 
John  Garrick 
Janet  Gay  nor 
C.  Henry  Gordon 
Louise  Huntington 
Warren  Hymer 
Keating  Sisters 
Richard  Keene 
Jane  Keith 
Nancy  Kelly 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
Jam's  Kirkwood 
Elissa  Landi 


Dixie  Lee 

Marion  Lessing 
George  Lewis 
Myrna  Loy 
Edmund  Lowe 
Claire  Luce 
Leslie  May 
Jeanctte  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 
Frances  McCoy 
Victor  McLaglen 
Una  Merkel 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Lois  Moran 
J.  Harold  Murray 
George  O'  Brien 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Gaylord  Pendleton 
Nat  Pendleton 
Rosalie  Rae 
Will  Rogers 
David  Rollins 
John  Swor 
Lee  Tracy 
Spencer  Tracy 
Ruth  Warren 
John  Wayne 
Marjorie  White 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Robert  Ames 
Amos  and  Andy 
Henry  Armetta 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Betty  Compson 
Ricardo  Cortez 
John  Darrow 
Claudia  Dell 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Eddie  Foy,  Jr. 
Noel  Francis 
Ralf  Harolde 
Hugh  Herbert 


Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Sharon  Lynn 
Everett  Marshall 
Joel  McCrea 
Jack  Mulhall 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Roberta  Robinson 
Lowell  Sherman 
Katya  Sorina 
Ned  Sparks 
Lent  Stengel 
Bert  Wheeler 
Robert  Woolsey 


Warner  Bros.  Studios,  5842  Sunset  Blvd. 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Noah  Beery 
Joan  Blondell 
Joe  E.  Brown 
Anthony  Bushell 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Bebe  Daniels 
Irene  Delroy 
Robert  Elliott 
Frank  Fay 


John  Halliday 
Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Allan  Lane 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
David  Manners 
Marian  Marsh 
Edward  Morgan 
William  Powell 
Barbara  Weeks 
Jack  Whiting 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ina  C  '. 

Ronald  Colman 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 


Al  Jolson 
Evelyn  Lave 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St 


Richard  Cromwell 

Constance  Cummings 
Ralph  Graves 
lack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Margaret  Livingston 


Bert  Lytell 
Dorothy  Revier 
Dorothy  Sebastian 
Miriam  Seegar 
Barbara  Stanwyck 


Culver  City,  Calif. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


William  Bakewell 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beefy 
Edwina  Booth 
John  Mack  Brown 
Lenore  Bushman 
Harry'  Carey 
Joan  Crawford 
Jose  Ci 

Marion  Da  vies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  DoukI 
Marie  Dressier 
Cliff  Edwards 
Julia  Faye 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
William  Haines 
NeU  Hamilton 
Hedda  Hopper 
Lottice  Howell 
Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Arnold  Korff 
Andre  Luguet 


Ellen  McCarthy 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Robert  Montgomery 
Grace  Moore 
Polly  Moran 
Catherine  Moylan 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Edward  Nugent 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita  Page 
Lucille  Powers 
Marie  Prevost 
Marjorie  Rambeau 
Duncan  Renaldo 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Raquel  Torres 
Lester  Vail 


RKO-Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  and  Russell 
Gleason 


Ann  Harding 
Eddie  Quillan 
Helen  Twelvetrees 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 
Thelma  Todd 


Universal  City,  Calif. 

Universal  Studios 


Margaret  Adams 
Lew  Ayres 
John  Boles 
Hoot  Gibson 
Bela  Lugosi 


Charles  Murray 
George  Sidney 
Slim  Summerville 
Genevieve  Tobin 
John  Wray 


Burbank,  Calif. 

First  National  Studios 


Richard  Barthelmess 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Joe  Frisco 
Walter  Huston 
Fred  Kohl^r 
Dorothy  Mackaill 


Marilyn  Miller 
Ona  Munson 
Dorothy  Peterson 
James  Rennie 
Otis  Skinner 
Loretta  Young 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Tallulah  Bankhead 
Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Claudette  Colbert 
Norman  Foster 
Miriam  Hopkins 


Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Ginger  Rogers 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrett ' 
Ed  Wynn 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire.  1212  Gower  St. 
Llovd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd.  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy.  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Pat  OMalley.  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St. 
Ruth  Roland.  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
EsteUe  Taylor,  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray.  22  E.  60th  St..  New  York 

William  S.  Hart.  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall.  Calif. 

Patsv    Ruth    Miller,   808    Crescent   Drive,    Beverly 

Hills.  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 


^ ^^^^B 

BSkVik^BSmfl                                                     la             m^^^^      ^^ 

^^^^^^^^^^[\ 

Lowell  Sherman,  star  and  director  of  the  new  Radio  Pictures  production,  "Bachelor  Apartment." 
On  the  table  betide  him  is  No.  326,  a  square  mahogany  desk  clock.  S 1 1 


Lowell  Sher 
Clocks   i 


man  tells  time  by  Telechron 
n     Bachelor  Apartment 


// 


SUAVELY,  smoothly,  Lowell  Sherman  stars 
in  the  productions  he  directs  for  Radio 
Pictures.  Handsomely,  truthfully,  Telechron 
Clocks  mark  the  minutes  for  this  versatile 
star-director.  A  number  of  them  appear  in 
his  sparkling  new  picture,  "Bachelor  Apart- 
ment." Be  sure  to  see  it  when  it  comes  to 
your  local  theater! 

Other  Radio  Pictures  directors  depend 
upon  Telechron  Clocks  too.  They're  used 
in  the  pictures  produced  on  the  RKO  lot, 
whenever  up-to-date  clocks  are  called  for. 
Because  of  their  modern,  well-designed 
cases.  Because  of  their  convenience. 
Above  all,  because  of  their  accuracy. 


Telechron  Clocks  plug  into  ordinary  elec- 
tric outlets.  They  never  need  winding,  oiling 
or  regulating.  Telechron  Master  Clocks 
check  generator  speeds  in  power-houses  and 
assure  Telechron  precision.  Only  clocks 
marked  "  Telechron  "  will  bring  you  true 
Telechron  service! 

You  can  have  in  your  own  home  Telechron 
Clocks  just  like  those  you  see  on  the  screen. 
There's  a  dealer  near  you,  listed  in  the 
classified  telephone  directory.  He  has  all 
manner  of  models  to  show  you  —  from 
stately   grandfather's    clocks   for   your   hall 


to  clever  little  clocks  for  your  dressing- 
table.  Some  of  them  have  chimes,  alarms, 
illuminated  dials  and  other  special  features. 
Telechron  Clocks  range  in  price  from 
S9.75  to  S55.  The  Revere  Clock  Company 
of  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  manufactures  strike 
and  chime  clocks  with  Telecl.ron  motors, 
priced  from  $30  to  $1000. 

*    Telechron    if   the    trodc-morW,    registered    in    the 
U   S.  Patent  Office,  of  the  Warren  Telechron  Company 

WARREN  TELECHRON   COMPANY 

ASHLAND,       MASSACHUSETTS 

THE    REVERE    CLOCK    COMPANY 

CINCINNATI,  OHIO 


R-802.    Colonial  design.    Mahooany.    Chimes.    $39 
Same    pattern,    hour   and    half-hour    strike.     $30 


"Ghic'  ^ale—The 

Specialist 

tells  about        « 
"The  little 

Feller      %MMPW«r 
with  the 
Bright  ^1 


'ACE' 


Te  n  Ye  a  r  s  Ago 


YOU  take  the  Tyler  boy.  Born  an' 
raised  right  here  in  this  county  so 
naturally  nobody  ever  noticed  him. 

He  took  to  wearin'  loud  neckties 
an'  gettin'  his  suits  by  mail  order,  but 
was  utterly  ignored.  Played  the  drum  in 
the  band,  bought  a  yeller  roadster,  parted 
his  hair  in  the  middle  an'  smoked  so  many 
cigarettes  his  hands  shook  like  a  le^f, 
but  still  he  wasn't  recognised.  Took  a 
mail  course  on  developin'  a  winnin' 
personality  an'  was  such  a  failure  even 
the  postman  was  discouraged. 

Talked  with  a  travelin'  man  one  dry 
who  fairly  sparkled.  Upshot  of  it  was  he 
went  to  town  an'  got  a  little  box  of 
chocolate  tablets.  Today  you  can  ask 
any  stranger  in  any  crowd  to  point  out 
the  Tyler  boy  an'  the  stranger  will  say, 
"There  he  is  —  the  little  feller  with  the 
bright  face. " 


OVER  26  million  boxes  of  "those  little 
chocolate  tablets' ' — Ex-Lax — were 
sold  in  1930— that's  popularity  for  you! 

Ex-Lax  is  simply  delicious  chocokte 
combined  with  the  scientific  laxative  in- 
gredient, phenolphthalein,  of  the  right 
quality,  1n  the  right  proportion,  in  the 
right  dose. 

Ex-Lax  is  safe,  gentle,  effective  —  for 
every  age.  At  all  druggists — 10c,  25c 
and  50c  boxes. 

T~>  T~)    T-n  ¥"^  Complete  set  of 

P     IX    F     P      "CHIC"  SALE  SAYINGS 

*■     ■■■*-•■—"—'        aod  sample  of  tx  Lax 

ftamt 

Strttt  and  Kumher 

City Slate 

Mail  this  coupon  to  The  Hx-Lax  Co.,  Dept.  PH-SI 
P.O.  Box  170, Times  Plaza  i>ta.,  Brooklyn,  N.Y. 

Keep  "regular"  with 

EX-LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


in 


"The  Sheik" 
himself  with 
Agnes  Ayres. 
Just  ten  years 
ago  Rudolph 
Valentino  came 
to  fame  as  Julio 
in  "The  Four 
Horsemen" 


FUNNY  how  a  tornado  sneaks  up  on  us! 
In  the  issue  of  Photoplay  for  May,  1921, 
our  learned  critic,  Mr.  Burns  Mantle,  is 
called  upon  to  write  a  review  of  a  picture  called 
"The  Four  Horsemen  of  the  Apocalypse." 

The  piece  is  mildly  appreciative,  and  ends  by 
saying  that  "an  attractive  boy  named  Ru- 
dolph  Valentino  plays  Julio." 

Attractive  boy.  Humph!  Might  as  well 
tell  a  man  that  Marlene  Dietrich  has  nice 
eyes. 

Of  course,  how  could  anyone  know  that 
within  a  year  this  Valentino  was  to  stampede 
50,000,000  women,  set  the  young  men  of  the 
republic  to  greasing  their  hair  and  wearing 
sideburns,  re-awaken  interest  in  the  tango  and 
start  a  rage  for  pseudo-Latin  love-making  on  the 
screen  that  was  to  die  only  when  the  screen 
went  vocal?  Or  that  Rudy's  death  was  to  be 
internationally  mourned  and  his  funeral  be  a 
mixture  of  a  royal  pageant  and  a  strike  riot  in 
a  mill  town? 

No — Bums  couldn't  guess  these  matters. 
But  isn't  it  funny  how  a  cyclone  creeps  up? 

WE  announce  the  marriage  of  Tom  Moore, 
in  1921  one  of  our  most  popular  young 
leading  men,  and  Renee  Adoree,  a  little  circus 
girl  from  overseas. 

They  met  while  playing  in  a  picture  called 
"Made  in  Heaven,"  and  that,  says  our  writer, 
is  where  this  marriage  was  made,  too.  Well, 
maybe  it  was,  but  it  ended  elsewhere. 

Tom  was  the  dashing  star,  and  Renee  had 
become  a  sparkling  musical  comedy  child. 
They  met  on  New  Year's  Eve,  in  New  York, 
and  were  married  February  12,  in  Hollywood, 
with  Mabel  Normand  attending  the  bride  and 
Jack  Pickford  as  best  man. 

The  scene  shifts  to  1931.  Rcnce  Adoree  is 
out  in  the  desert,  pretty  much  alone,  trying 
in  get  over  lung  trouble.  Tom  Moore — he 
plays  from  time  to  time.  But  oh,  it  was  a 
;rand  romance  ten  years  ago,  and  all  the  girls 
^ot  a  great  thrill  out  of  it! 

p  OSSIP  as  of  May,  1921— 
^^     What  do  you  think?    Carmel  Myers  is 
married.    The  lucky  man  is  I.  N.  Kornblum, 
a  childhood  friend,  and  they  kept  the  marriage 


secret  for  nearly  two  years.  In  1931  Carmel's 
husband  is  named  Ralph  Blum. 

Jackie  Coogan  is  getting  offers  of  SI, 500  a 
week  since  he  debutted  with  Chaplin  in  "The 
Kid."  He's  just  finished  work  in  "Peck's  Bad 
Boy." 

Buster  Keaton  and  Natalie  Talmadge  are 
reported  engaged.  The  lady  coyly  has  nothing 
to  say  at  present. 

John  Barrymore  is  a  daddy.  A  daughter 
has  just  been  born  to  Mrs.  Barrymore,  who 
was  Mrs.  Leonard  Thomas,  New  York  society 
woman  who  writes  poetry  under  the  name  of 
Michael  Strange. 

It  is  reported  that  D.  W.  Griffith  is  going 
to  film  "Faust,"  with  Lillian  Gish  as  the 
harassed  Marguerite  and  John  Barrymore  as 
the  unfortunate  "hero."    (He  never  made  it) 

IN  the  gallery  this  month,  fancy  pictures  of 
Agnes  Ayres,  Dorothy  Gish,  Betty  Blythe, 
Marguerite  Clark,  Corinne  Griffith  and  Jacque- 
line Logan  .  .  .  C60''  De  Mille  resumes  his 
dissertation  on  marriage,  continued  from  last 
month.  He  says,  in  part,  "I  have  been  mar- 
ried eighteen  years.  In  eighteen  years  I  have 
never  passed  a  Saturday  night  at  home.  In 
eighteen  years  I  have  never  said  where  I  was 
on  a  Saturday  night,  nor  what  I  was  doing, 
nor  with  whom  I  was.  And  in  eighteen  years, 
I  have  never  been  asked."  Well,  can  you  beat 
that?  And  we  don't  believe  that  the  De  Mille 
of  "  Don't  Change  Your  Wife"  and  such  things 
ever  made  a  picture  called  "Saturday  Night 
Husbands"!  .  .  .  Beautiful  picture  of  Alice 
Joyce — who  was  then,  and  still  is.  Mrs.  James 
Regan.  .  .  .  Pearl  White  is  playing  in  a  feature 
picture   called    "Know   Your   Men."     Ah! 

SOME  of  the  month's  pictures — 
Charles  Ray's  "The  Old  Swimmin'  Hole" 
makes  its  appearance — probably  the  high  spot 
of  Charlie's  career.  A  charming,  simple  story — 
and  told  on  the  screen  entirely  without  titles. 
This  was  the  first  titleless  picture  in  film  his- 
tory.    And  tremendously  successful. 

"What  Every  Woman  Knows,"  the  famous 
Barrie  play,  comes  to  the  screen  at  the  hands 
of  William  De  Mille,  with  Lois  Wilson  as 
Mdggk  and  Conrad  Nagel  as  John  Shand. 


Photofi  \\   M  \>.\/im    i  oi  1&a\ 


A  PINPRICK 
Open  D 


icyis  an 


^  Death 


WOUNDED  MEN  filled  the  Grand  Hotel  in  Paris.  The 
finest   medical   talent  in  France  was  there  to  treat 
them.    And  yet,  the  deaths  were  appalling! 

It  seemed  as  if  the  surgeons'  knives  were  deadlier  than 
enemy  bullets.  For,  almost  every  man  operated  on  died  of 

infection.    In  despair,  the  surgeon  Velpeau  cried,  "A  pin- 
prick is  a  door  open  to  death!" 

That  was  during  the  Franco  Prussian  War,  only  a  brief 
•.     Then,  the  need  for  disinfection  had  scarcely 
been  recognized.    The  theory  that  germs  cause  disease  and 
deadly  infection  was  still  in  dispute! 

What  a  contrast  with  present  conditions]  Now,  disin- 
fection is  almost  a  religion  with  the  medical  profession — 
and  whenever  there  is  a  real  job  of  germ-killing  to  do, 
doctors  and  hospitals  the  world  over  turn  to  "Lysol"  Dis- 
infectant. They  depend  on  it  even  at  that  most  critical 
time  of  all — childbirth — when  disinfection  must  be  safe 
and  thorough. 

"Lysol,"  when  diluted  according  to  directions,  is  non- 
poisonous — yet  all  recommended  dilutions  are  sure  germ- 
killers.  In  any  situation  in  your  own  home  where  you  have 
cause  for  doubt,  play  safe — use  "Lysol."  Use  it  properly 
diluted  where  ver  germs  are  apt  tolurk — on  wounds,  cuts,  and 
human  tissue;  in  the  household,  on  telephones,  doorknobs, 
woodwork,  nursery  furniture,  baby's  toys,  and  utensils. 

"Lysol"  is  the  most  economical  disinfectant  in  the  world, 
too.  Every  drop  will  kill  200,000,000  bacteria.  A  tablespoon- 
iuI  diluted  makes  tour  quarts  of  non-poisonous  disinfect- 
ant. Get  a  large  bottle  of  "Lysol"  from  your  druggist  today. 
I  9€  it  every  day  to  disinfect  while  you  clean.  It  is  your 
surest  safeguard  against  sickness  and  infection.  Sole  Dis- 
tributors: Lehn  is:  Fink,  Inc.,  Bloomficld,  New  Jersey. 


"LYSOL" for  Feminine  Hygiene 

For  fortyycars."Lysol"Disinfectant  has  heen  thestand- 
arJ  antiseptic  depended  upon  for  feminine  hygiene,  by 
women  throughout  the  worlJ.  When  diluted  accord- 
ing to  directions,  it  is  absolutely  harmless  to  humans — 
yet  its  cleansing  and  disinfecting  action  is  so  thorough 
that  it  kills  harmful  germs  under  conditions  that 
render    many    preparations    completely    ineffective. 


©  1951,  L.&  F,  Inc. 


"W% 


.    Doctors  and  hospitals  the  world  over  depend  on  MLy$oP  Disinfectant  todav 


SIXTY     VIAK^    Af.O    THE    NEED    FOR     DISINFECTION     HAD    NOT    YFT    PFFN     KFCOf.NlIEO 


Be  careful!  Counterfeits  of 
"Lysol**  are  being  offered. 
Genuine  "Lysol"  is  in  the 
brown  bottle  and  yellow 
carton    marked  "Lysol."* 


u 


on  should  use 

GENUINE 
MAYBELLINE 


Girls'  Problems 


CO.vriM  ED  FROM  PAGE  18 


POPULAR  ACTRESS  FEATURED  IN  RADIO  PICTURES 

Every  girl  and  woman  can  enhance 
her  beauty  by  bringingout  thelove- 
liness  in  her  eyes.  For,  when  she 
transforms  her  lashes  from  scanti- 
ness to  rich  dark  fringe  with  May- 
belline  Eyelash  Darkener,  her  eyes 
become  infinitely  more  expressive. 

And  when  she  blends  a  bit  of 
Maybelline  Eye  Shadow  on  her  up- 
per eyelids,  she  lends  her  eyes  a  note 
of  the  exotic,  thereby  making  them 
more  interesting. 

The  finishing  touch  to  the  perfect  eye 
make-up  is  provided  by  the  new  inde- 
structible Maybelline  Eyebrow  Pencil. 
Smooth,  clean  and  easy  to  use. 

You'll  like  genuine,  harmless  May- 
belline preparations.  You'll  prefer  them 
—  just  as  the  many  famous  stars  of  the 
stage  and  screen  do — and  just  as  mil- 
lions of  smart  women  have  preferred 
them  for  over  fifteen  years. 

All  toilet  goods  counters  hnve  both  the 
solid  and  waterproof  liquid  forma  of  May- 
belline Eyelash  Darkener  in  Black  and 
Brown— the  Eye  Shadow  in  Blue,  Brown, 
Black  and  Green,  and  the  Eyebrow  Pen- 
cil in  Black  and  Brown.  Insist  upon 
the  genuine. 


&fta&0e£i@rze 


EYELASH  DARKENER 

EYE  SHADOW 

EYEBROW  PENCIL 


All  M»rbcllln« 
preparations  are 
7f>c  excepting  tbe 
(••brow  1'encil 
which  is  3&c. 


Matjbclllne  Co. 
Cbicaaro 


"I  let  all  the  water  run  out  of  the  tub," 
Gloria  told  me.  "Then  I  fill  it  again,  about 
half  to  three-quarters  full,  with  warm  water,  I 
pour  an  ounce  or  two  of  sweet  almond  oil  over 
the  top  and  relax  in  it  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  the  water  about.  My  pores 
are  open  from  the  warmth  and  enough  oil  seeps 
into  them  to  keep  my  skin  soft  and  supple.  As 
I  get  out  of  the  tub  some  of  the  oil  still  clings  to 
my  body  and  I  pat  it  gently  dry  so  that  none 
remains  on  the  surface  to  soil  my  clothes." 

GLORIA  finds  this  bath  restful,  and  beauti- 
fying. Yet  sweet  almond  oil  is  inexpensive, 
and  Gloria's  luxury  bath  is  within  the  means  of 
almost  every  girl.  And  there  are  a  number  of 
specially  prepared  bath  oils,  delicately  scented, 
that  make  bathing  even  more  luxurious  and 
very  little  more  costly. 

Marion  Davies  occasionally  gives  her  neck 
a  "honey  rub."  She  pats  the  honey  under  her 
chin  down  to  the  base  of  her  neck,  and  then 
massages  gently  with  an  outward  and  upward 
stroke. 

-Marlene  Dietrich  likes  an  ice  massage  after 
using  soap  and  water  or  after  removing  cleans- 
ing cream.  She  rubs  a  smooth  piece  of  ice 
lightly  under  her  eyes  and  over  the  lids,  always 
with  an  outward  and  upward  movement;  from 
the  eyebrows  toward  the  scalp;  from  the  base 
of  the  neck  upward  toward  the  point  of  the 
chin  and  ears;  from  the  chin  and  around  the 
mouth  upward  toward  the  temples,  and  also 
over  the  nose.  This  keeps  her  skin  firm  and 
closes  the  pores. 

Many  of  the  film  stars  like  the  ice  rub,  but 
some  of  them  prefer  to  wrap  the  ice  in  a  piece 
of  soft  cloth  instead  of  applying  it  directly  to 
the  face.  Cold  water  is  a  less  vigorous  treat- 
ment and  I,  personally,  think  it  is  just  as 
effective. 

Marlene  likes  to  follow  a  shampoo  with  a 
"perfume  friction."  Her  maid  takes  a  few 
drops  of  perfume  in  the  palm  of  her  hand,  and 
then  rubs  Marlene's  hair  briskly  between  her 
palms,  going  all  over  her  head  in  this  way. 

Billie  Dove,  whose  hands  are  as  well  kept  as 
her  lovely  face,  uses  a  hand  lotion  after  every 
washing.  The  water  in  Hollywood  is  rather 
hard  and  the  air  tends  to  dry  the  skin,  so  hand 
lotions  are  popular  there. 

Garbo  likes  to  let  the  ocean  fog  seep  into  her 
pores,  not  only  because  she  revels  in  the  feel 
and  smell  of  sea  air  but  because  she  thinks  it 
keeps  her  skin  moist  and  healthy. 

Lib/an  Tashman  gives  herself  an  occasional 
"egg  mask."  She  pats  the  yolk  of  an  egg  on 
her  face,  lets  it  dry  and  remain  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  removing  it  gently  with  luke- 
warm water.  Evalyn  Knapp  uses  the  white  of 
an  egg  as  an  astringent  in  the  same  manner 
once  a  week.   This  is  an  old  beauty  formula. 

but  don't  laugh  when  the  egg  begins  to  dry 
and  you  feel  as  though  your  face  is  in  a  vise. 
You  won't  get  the  best  results  if  you  laugh  or 
talk  while  the  egg  is  drying  and  doing  its  work. 
Most  of  the  stars  have  a  favorite  astringent, 
usually  a  recognized  product  prepared  by  a 
reliable  cosmetician,  which  they  use  regularly. 

ANOTHER  Hollywood  stunt  (an  old,  old 
beauty  secret  of  the  harems)  is  to  put  tigs  in 
a  pan,  barely  cover  them  with  milk  and.  after 
the  regular  facial  cleansing,  allow  the  steam 
from  the  mixture  to  penetrate  the  pores  of  the 
face. 

Turkish  ladies  use  fresh  figs,  but  most  of  us 
would  have  to  be  content  with  dried  ones. 
The  girls  who  use  this  treatment  give  it 
credit  for  clearing  their  complexions  and  leav- 
ing them  like  velvet.  I  haven't  tried  it  myself, 
but  you  might  like  to  experiment  with  it. 

But  Sylvia,  Hollywood's  famous  masseuse, 
is  absolutely  set  against  steaming  of  any  sort, 
even  when  flavored  deliciously  with  figs!    She 


descried  hot  baths,  Turkish  baths  and  steamed 
towel  treatments  because  she  believes  they 
drain  the  tissues  of  nourishment  and  cause 
sagging  muscles. 

Ruth  Louise: 

Ann  Harding  doesn't  use  a  hairbrush,  but 
she  massages  her  scalp  twice  a  day.  She 
doesn't  think  waved  hair  is  becoming  to  her, 
and  I  don't  believe  she  contemplates  bobbing 
her  hair.  If  she  has  withstood  the  temptation 
so  far,  she  is  not  apt  to  succumb  now.  Maybe 
it  never  was  a  temptation  to  Ann! 

Patty: 

When  hair  is  at  that  in-between  stage,  there 
isn't  anything  you  can  do  but  wait  for  it  to 
grow!  Curling  the  ends  would  help  a  great 
deal,  even  if  the  rest  of  your  hair  isn't  very 
wavy.  Dancing  lessons  would  help  your 
ankles.  Tap  dancing  is  great  fun  and  grand 
exercise.    And  it's  not  difficult  to  learn. 

Send  me  a  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope 
and  ask  for  my  complexion  leaflet.  That  will 
help  you  get  rid  of  blackheads.  The  colors 
that  should  be  most  becoming  to  you  are  soft 
shades  of  green,  most  shades  of  blue,  deep 
orchid,  gray,  golden  brown,  burnt-orange, 
tomato,  pale  pink,  soft  rose,  black  with  color 
touches,    and    white. 

Virginia  M.  C: 

Your  coloring  and  type  are  just  about  the 
same  as  Patty's,  so  the  colors  given  above  will 
be  becoming  to  you,  too.  The  following 
squatting  exercise  is  one  of  the  best  ones  I  know 
to  reduce  the  hips  and  improve  the  figure 
generally.  Do  it  smoothly  and  rhythmically, 
and  try  to  avoid  any  sense  of  strain.  When 
you  begin  to  feel  tired  that  means  it  is  time  to 
stop  for  a  while. 

Squatting  exercise:  Stand  erect  with  feet 
close  together  in  parallel  lines.  Rest  your 
hands  on  your  hips.  Rise  to  tiptoe.  Then  sit 
in  squatting  position,  bending  knees  sharply 
outward  until  the  thighs  and  legs  are  doubled 
upon  each  other  and  the  weight  of  the  entire 
body  is  supported  by  the  toes.  Be  sure  to 
keep  your  upper  body  erect.  Return  to  stand- 
ing position.  Repeat  the  exercise  twelve  times 
in  the  beginning,  gradually  increasing  it  to 
twenty  or  thirty  times  each  day. 

Helen  B.: 

I  think  you  should  stay  at  school  until  you 
have  finished  your  course.  Your  work  there 
will  help  you  greatly  if  you  do  get  an  oppor- 
tunity to  go  on  the  stage  later.  Why  don't 
you  talk  this  over  with  your  older  sister  or 
your  aunt,  tell  them  your  ambition,  and  ask 
them  to  help  you  achieve  it  after  you  have 
finished  school?    Give  yourself  a  chance! 

Marie: 

For  the  large  pores  in  your  nose,  use  an 
astringent  cream  at  night.  That  won't  be 
quite  as  drying  as  the  lotion  you  have  been 
using.  Avoid  too  many  fatty  foods,  and  keep 
your  skin  clean  with  soap  and  warm  water, 
followed  always  by  a  cold  water  rinse. 

These  are  the  colors  that  will  help  to  make 
a  blonde  of  your  type  more  lovely:  Green, 
especially  the  deeper  shades,  to  bring  out  the 
green  of  y-our  eyes;  green-blue,  henna,  golden 
brown,  yellow,  orchid,  beige,  white  trimmed 
with  a  color.  These  colors  will  give  more  life 
to  your  hair  and  bring  out  the  fairness  of 
your  skin. 

Schoolgirl: 

Take  advantage  of  your  opportunity  to 
learn  shorthand.  It  will  be  valuable  to  you, 
even  if  you  don't  intend  to  be  a  stenographer. 
If  you  succeed  in  getting  work  on  a  newspaper 
you  will  find  many  uses  for  it,  especially  as  a 
reporter.  And  you  will  find  it  helpful  right  in 
the  classroom,  for  taking  lecture  notes  and 
jotting  down  information. 


Photoplay  Magazine  kor  May,  I     I 


in  i 


Try    f/n'«    experiment. 

'/'<■/. /Eli  Km tAii hiliiml 

your  front  ti-clh.* 


ihe  modern 

TOOTH  BRUSH 


j. 


BETTER     SHAPE     -i-     BETTER     BRISTLES    + 


Tek  offers  you  Better  Bristles, 
lasting  resiliency.  This  prime 
advantage  is  multiplied  by  the 
scientific  shaping  of  these  lively 
bristles.  Tek's  brushing  head  puts 
each  tuft  to  work  at  every  stroke 
— a  positive  cleansing  of  every 
tooth  surface  and  crevice — plus 


*Tek  cleans  easily  where 

clumsy  brushes  cannot  reach. 


automatic  gum  massage.  I  ren 
behind  your  front  teeth,  in  (In- 
narrowest  curve  of  your  dental 
arch  where  old-style  brushes 
can't  reach,  Tek  cleans  because 
it  fits.  Trv  the  experiment  shown 
in  the  photograph  at  the  lefL 
Compare  Tek  to  anv  other  brush. 


Prolonged      Life      and       Guaranteed       V  a  I  u  e 


1  ben  you  try  it  you  will  say — Tek  is  the  best  tooth  brush  I  have  ever  ned" — for 
two  very  good  reasons  —  its  Belter  Shape  and  Better  Bristles.  Tlii-  Beta  ■  distinctly 
higher  value  on  Tek  —  one  which  is  guaranteed.  Yet  Tek  costs  no  more  than  an 
old-style  brush.  Each  Tek  brush  is  sterilized  and  cellophane-sealed  in  a  sanitary, 
clear-vision  container.  Handles  in  pastel  shades    A      Q  /IP 

of  Lucite.  Adult  size  50c.  Tek  Jr..3.>c.  Product  of  VlCilU  K'U  elliQll  UK'J I 
tl.c  world's  largest  makers  of  dental  accessories.     0  "m  »■»»*••<■  Q    «••  i">"* 


T02 


Pjioioplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


ENTRUST   YOUR    LIPS    TO   YBRY 


B, 


Monde  or 
brunette  —  Gentlemen 
prefer  those  who  prefer 
YBRY.  The  truly  perma- 
nent lipstick.  Smooth 
and  delicious  in  taste. 
Exquisite  in  scent. 
Featured  at  best  shops 


Ybry,  Inc.,  Dept.  P-5, 50  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City 

Please  send  trial  size  Ybry  Lipstick — lOc  enclosed 

My  hair  is ..My  eyes  are 

Name 

(PLBA9E  PRINT 

Address 


How  Norma  Shearer  Got  What  She 

Wanted 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  51  ] 


understand.      Mind  you,  she  had   nolkit 

the  screen.  Hut  she  had  a  steel  will  and 
directness  of  vision  that  would  do  credit  to  the 
gods  of  industry. 

Norma  used  her  head,  her  wits  and  this 
amazing  force.  I'll  give  you  an  example  of 
that.  When  she  got  her  first  call  for  picture 
work  (she  got  it  by  forcing  an  agent  to  send  her 
out)  she  found  that  twelve  girls  were  needed 
for  a  scene,  and  forty  had  been  sent.  She 
watched  the  assistant  director  quickly  scan 
that  group  of  girls  and  quickly  pick  out  the  one:; 
he  wanted — prettier,  more  experienced  girls 
than  Norma.  She  was  at  the  back  of  the  room, 
unnoticed.  She  watched  him  pick  eleven  girls 
without  once  glancing  at  her.  Suddenly  she 
coughed.  The  sound  caught  his  ear.  He  looked 
her  way.  She  flashed  him  her  most  engaging 
smile.    "You'll  do,"  he  said. 

A  ND,  in  that  way,  she  got  her  first  job  as  an 
-^"•extra.  But  her  sister,  who  had  not  thought 
as  quickly  as  Norma,  was  not  chosen,  so  Norma 
went  back  to  the  assistant  later  and  persuaded 
him  to  use  Atholc  as  well  as  herself.' 

Norma  gave  herself  completely  to  her  work. 
She  shut  out  possible  romances  and  all  friends 
wdio  could  not  help  her.  When  she  got  her 
first  bit,  she  refused  to  take  extra  work  again. 
And  that  is  the  turning  point  in  the  life  of  every 
embryonic  star.  And  that  takes  courage,  for 
bits  and  small  parts  are  hard  to  get,  extra  work 
comparatively  easy.  She  almost  starved  dur- 
ing this  period,  but  she  held  out  because  she 
was  shrewd  enough,  even  then,  to  know  it  was 
the  way  to  succeed.  In  order  to  make  enough 
money  to  carry  her  along  she  found  work  out- 
side the  studios  as  a  model  for  commercial  ar- 
tists. 

In  this  way,  giving  her  undivided  physical 
and  emotional  and  mental  powers  to  her  work, 
she  lifted  herself  up,  without  pull,  without 
friends,  to  the  place  where  young  Irving  Thal- 
berg,  who  was  then  a  producer  for  the  Louis 
B.  Mayer  Studios,  was  attracted  by  her  work 
on  the  screen  and  sent  to  New  York  for  her. 

Norma  has  often  told  the  story  of  her  first 
meeting  with  Thalberg.  She  thought,  at  first, 
that  he  was  an  office  boy  and  then  she  discov- 
ered, almost  instantly,  that  he  was  a  producer. 
Now,  she  says,  she  knows  that  she  fell  in  love 
with  him  at  first  sight.  I'm  prone  to  doubt 
that.  It  must  have  been  love  at  second  sight, 
for  if  she  thought,  upon  first  sight,  that  he  was 
an  office  boy  she  did  not  fall  in  love  with  him. 
If  Norma  Shearer  fell  in  love  then,  she  fell  in 
love  with  the  producer. 

SHE  began  playing  leading  roles.  Shortly 
after  Mayer  merged  with  Goldwyn  and 
Metro  she  was  made  a  star  and,  although  she 
achieved  a  fair  amount  of  popularity,  she  was 
never  a  sensation.  She  and  Thalberg  were 
closely  associated  in  a  business  way.  but  there 
was  no  romance  between  them.  Irving  was  in 
love  with,  and  practically  engaged  to.  another 
girl.  Norma  was  merely  one  of  his  stars  and  a 
shrewd  one,  too. 

She  obeyed  all  the  star  mandates.  She  gave 
out  marvelous  interviews  (the  only  woman  I've 
ever  known  whose  first  words  are  invariably 


the  lead  of  your  story).  She  was  never  con- 
nected with  any  sort  of  scandal.  She  indulged 
in  no  eccentricities  that  might  have  been  criti- 
cized. She  was,  like  Caesar's  wife,  beyond  re- 
proach. But  she  was  not  yet  Caesar's  wife. 
That  came  later.  That  came,  and  I'm  sure  it 
was  coincidence,  just  as  she  was  beginning  to 
slip  as  a  silent  star. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  Norma  Shearer  loves 
Irving  Thalberg.  There  is  no  doubt  that  she 
has  managed  her  marriage  as  successfully  as 
she  has  managed  her  career.  But  I  believe  that 
she  learned  to  love  her  husband,  as  many  an- 
other woman  has  done  before  her.  Certainly 
Irving  is  head  man  in  his  own  household. 

Once  Norma  recounted  an  incident  that 
proves  this.  Some  one  admired  the  clothes  she 
had  brought  back  from  her  honeymoon  in  Eu- 
rope. She  smiled  and  said,  "They  were  almost 
ruined,  every  one  of  them.  I  had  taken  them 
out  of  the  trunk  and  laid  them  out  in  our  cabin 
on  the  boat  just  under  a  port-hole.  During 
the  night  a  terrible  storm  came  up  and  Irving 
said,  'Norma,  you'd  better  do  something  with 
your  clothes.'  I  got  up  and  put  them  away 
only  a  second  before  a  tremendous  amount  of 
water  burst  through  the  port-hole." 

If  you  will  examine  this  simple  story,  you 
will  find  that  it  was  Norma  who  got  up  and  re- 
moved the  clothes  and  it  was  Irving  who  sug- 
gested it.  Norma  is  wise  enough  to  know  that 
men  like  to  be  head  man  in  their  own  house- 
holds. 

WHEN  the  talkies  came,  Norma  made  the 
shrew'dest  gesture  of  her  career.  While 
others  were  crying  loudly  against  the  micro- 
phone and  declaring  the  whole  thing  was  simply 
a  fad,  Norma  was  quietly,  calmly  preparing 
herself  for  it.  What  long  hours  she  worked, 
how  she  concentrated  on  her  voice,  only  Norma 
Shearer  knows.  What  the  world  knows  is  that 
she  flowered  into  a  mature,  brilliant  actress 
with  the  poise  of  Ina  Claire  or  Ruth  Chatter- 
ton.  Norma,  who  had  never  been  on  the  stage, 
who  had  had  no  previous  training  for  that  diffi- 
cult technique,  has  become,  without  doubt,  one 
of  the  greatest  actresses  upon  the  screen. 

"The  Divorcee,"  as  you  know,  broke  almost 
every  box-office  record.  She  stands  at  the  top 
of  her  profession.  She  has  everything  that  a 
woman  could  possibly  want,  great  artistic 
achievement,  financial  success,  a  perfect  mar- 
riage and  a  baby  boy.    What  more  is  there? 

Now,  perhaps  I'm  just  an  old  silly,  but  I 
think  there  is  more.  There  is  the  warm,  alive 
glow  of  a  perfectly  ridiculous  action,  ridicu- 
lously done.  There  is  the  fun  of  abandoning 
yourself  to  nonsense.  There  is  the  thrill  of 
picking  up  friends  here  and  there  who  don't 
amount  to  anything  and  can  never  do  any- 
thing for  you.  There  is  the  remembrance  of  an 
unreasonable  romance  with  an  impossible,  in- 
eligible youth.  There's  divine  madness.  There 
is  also  the  beauty  of  giving  way  to  an  impulsive 
gesture.  And  there's  a  lot  more.  There's  a  lot 
more  that  Norma  Shearer  hasn't,  as  has  no- 
body who  has  made  her  sort  of  success  a  god. 

But  Norma.  I'm  sure,  doesn't  want  any  of 
these  silly  things.  If  she  had,  of  course  she 
would  have  gotten  them. 


A  Fortune  for  Photoplay  Readers 

You  have  a  chance  to  win  a  fat  share  of  $5,000,  or  all  of 
$2,000,  in  PHOTOPLAY  Magazine's  two  big  fascinating  prize 
contests.  You  may  enter  either  or  both. 

For  further  information  see  pages  52-53  and  page  36,  this  issue. 


PhOTOP]  \\    M  \'   \/i\i     i  01    M  \">  . 


NOW    A     NEW 


103 


d 


eeo 0  m 


new  i  eace  0 


Gone  are  the  Shackles 

of  F ear,  D i scow fo rt, 

and   Uncertainty! 


THE  shackle  of  womanhood   is  broken. 
The  shackle  that  has  held  them  foi 
in  fear,  discomfort,  uncertainty! 

Today  all  women  can  know  at  nil  timex  the 
poise  and  the  peace  <>!'  mind  that  come  from 
perfect  protection. 

Active,  athletic  women,  too,  can  he  free 
today  to  pursue  their  sports  at  any  time. 
Free,  to  wear  filmy  frocks  on  any  occasion 

For  there  is  now  an  utterly  new  and  totally 
different  hygiene  for  women. 

merely  another  sanitary  pad,  hut  an 
immaculate  awl  complete  protection!  A  san- 
itary napkin  that  is  New  in  design;  New  in 
material;  New  and  remarkable  in  the  results 
it  gives. 

It  is  so  unique  that  we  want  to  send  you  a 
sample  free  of  charge  (in  plain  wrapping,  of 
course").  So  you  can  examine  it  fully.  Judge 
for  yourself  its  two  distinct  advantage*  that 
have  never  l>efore  been  offered  to  women. 

Ends  All  Chafing — 
All  Irritations! 

Made  under  rigid  U.  8.  Patents,  it  is  pure 
K  vh>v  cellulose  filled.  And  you  will  find  it 
as  gentle  as  fluffed  silk. 

This  softness  comes  because  of  its  totally 
new  construction— as  well  as  its  rayon  cellu- 
lose filler  — as  you  will  note  the  moment  you 
see  it  ami  compare  it  with  any  other  pad. 
You  sec  at  once  why  it  is  preferable.  For  it 
is  not  made  from  mere  layers  of  crepe  paper 
as  in  old-type  sanitary  methods. 

Once  the  discriminating  woman  tries  one, 
she  never  goes  back  to  old  ways.  Its  name 
is  Veldown.  Most  stores  can  now  supply  you. 

Effective  Hours  Longer 

It  also  has  another  important  feature.  It  is 
absolutely  protective  for  the  reason  that  the 


^ 


FOR     EVERY    WOMAN 


outer 

moisture-proof  and  impenetrable. 

This  innovation  makes  Veldown  .r>  or  more 
times  more  absorbent  than  other  sanitary 
methods.  And  it  gives  CoMFLBTO  Smmv 
and   protection   Horns  LONOEB  than  Other 

ways.    Hence  a  danger  that  every  woman 

carries  in  her  mind  is  absolutely  eliminated. 
And  no  other  protective  garments  are 

cssary. 

It  is  specially   treated   with    a   deodorant 
—  and   thus  end-  even  titightest  danger  of 
embarrassment.    Discards,  of  course,  easily 
-ue. 

Accept  Trial 

Co  today  to  any  drug  or  department  store. 
Obtain  a  box  of  Veldown.  You  will  find  that 
it  is  a  Vast  and  Great  Improvement  on  any 

other  pad  you  have  ever  worn. 

Or.  if  you  prefer  to  inv  fore  buy- 

ing, send  the  coupon  for  a  trial  pad  free. 
For  the  sake  of  your  own  comfort  and 
don't  delay  to  learn  the  unique  advantages 
of  this  remarkable  new  invention. 

Veldown  Company,  Inc.,  220  East  42nd 

Street,  New  York  City.    I  D 

of  the  International  I'aprr  A  Power  Company. 


II1-5 


Miss  Loct  T.  Cosrnxo,  R  N". 

VcUlown  Company.  Inc.. 

220  East  42nd  Street.  New  York  City 

Please  mail  me.  in  plain  wrapper,  free  of 
charce,  a  sample  of  Veldown  for  my  in- 
spection. 


IVmm 


Slrett  Address.. 



Slate 


(This  ofler  good  only  in  US   A  ) 
^J 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


The  Perils  of  Marlene 


Treat  that 

or 
carefully 

Don't  hurry  it;  or  worry  it  with  knife 
or  rapid-fire  "corn  cures."  But  don't 
let  it  spoil  your  fun  and  freedom  when 
springtime  beckons  out  of  doors. 
Blue-jay  will  end  its  pangs  instantly, 
gently.  A  safe,  mild,  certain  treatment 
for  banishing  corns,  Blue-jay  lifts  the 
pressure  and  friction  which  cause 
them  and  keep  them  sore.  Softens  and 
destroys  their  structure,  detaching 
them  for  easy,  painless  removal. 
On  or  off  in  ten  seconds,  Blue-jay  is 
handy,  pleasant,  bath-proof,  depend- 
able. Made  by  a  house  noted  for 
surgical  dressings.  Used  by  millions 
through  31  years.  At  all  drug-stores, 
25  cents.   (In  Canada,  35  cents.) 

BLUEJAY 

CORN    PLASTERS 


BAUER  &  BLACK 


DIVISION   OF  THE  KENDALL  COMPANY 
Chicago      .      .      New  York     .      .      Toronto 

Do  you  know  Protect -O- Pads,  smart 
new  members  of  the  famous  Blue-jay 
family  of  foot  comforts?  These  trim  oval 
shields,  hollow-centered,  velvet-soft  yet 
tough,  guard  tender  spots  and  prevent 
corns,  calluses,  blisters.  Ask  your  drug- 
gist— or  send  10c  for  samples  to  Bauer  & 
Black,  2527  South  Federal  St.,  Chicago. 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  37 


with  unwrinkled  hosiery — can  you  imagine 
her  hurled  into  eternity  with  one  stocking 
bagging  at  the  ankle? 

Not  Dietrich!  Not  if  Joe  Yon  Sternberg 
knows  it! 

NOW,  I  submit  that  this  is  all  very  pleasant. 
I'd  far  rather  look  at  Marlene  Dietrich's 
legs  than  at  the  Taj  Mahal  by  moonlight,  or 
even  at  a  fat  lady  slipping  on  a  banana  peel  and 
coming  down. 

But  I  further  submit  that  Dr.  Von  Stern- 
berg— discoverer,  director  and  artistic  ex- 
ploiter of  the  glamorous  Potsdam  Peacherino — 
is  definitely  threatening  the  artistic  advance  of 
this  star  by  overemphasizing  those  portions 
of  the  lady  which  lie  below  the  Adam's  [apple. 

In  short,  she  is  spending  the  time  draping 
herself  on  chairs,  divans  and  four-posters 
that  might  be  devoted  to  showing  us  what  a 
great  actress  she  is. 

Von  Sternberg  is  to  blame.  He  saw  Marlene 
Dietrich's  legs  first  and  gave  them  to  the 
American  gaze,  and  we  are  all  in  his  debt  for 


it.  But  he  is  now  in  a  fair  way  to  show  them 
off  until,  in  her  next  picture,  we  are  apt  to  say, 
"Oh,  yes — there  are  Dietrich's  legs  again,  and 
very  nice,  too!  Now,  baby,  let's  see  some  of 
that  swell  acting  we  hope  you  can  do!" 

And  if  we  don't  see  it,  we're  very  apt  to 
gallop  down  the  block  to  the  next  tent! 

I'm  for  Dietrich — and  Dietrich's  legs — till 
Pike's  Peak's  a  dimple.  But,  in  the  name  of 
the  American  motion  picture  public,  I  pre- 
sume to  warn  Herr  Doktor  Von  Sternberg  that, 
just  as  pigs  are  pigs,  legs  are  only  legs,  be  they 
ever  so  magnificent.  Be  they  ever,  in  short, 
Dietrich's. 

I  FURTHER  announce  that  when  I  see 
Marlene  Dietrich  play  a  great  drama  mag- 
nificently, dressed  from  shoulder  to  toe  in  a 
suit  of  opaque  blue  union  overalls,  then  will  I 
get  up  on  my  seat  and  howl  that  I  have  seen 
one  of  the  greatest  dramatic  actresses  on  the 
screen.  As  it  stands  today — this  early  in  the 
game — we  can't  see  the  genius  for  the  legs. 
The  trees  for  the  limbs,  that  is. 


Here  Comes  Tallulah! 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  46 


from  the  South — a  new  personality  and  artist 
to  her  own  people? 

She's  about  five  feet,  three,  and  can't  weigh 
much  over  a  hundred  pounds. 

Eyes  big  and  blue,  and  very  well-managed 
and  articulate. 

Rather  prominent  nose,  full  mouth,  deter- 
mined chin. 

Tallulah's  hair  is  blonde,  and  worn  in  a  long 
bob  that  curls  up  at  the  ends. 

But  those  are  just  physical  characteristics. 
Tallulah  Bankhead  has  the  glamour,  the  snap 
of  mind  and  spirit,  the  smart  and  intelligent 
viewpoint  that  sets  off  the  personality  from 
the  just-another-actress. 

She  glitters. 

SHE'S  got  a  temper,  and  a  will  of  her  own. 
this  one.  She's  been  known  to  raise  thunder 
at  times — and  it's  been  taken,  if  not  altogether 
liked,  because  she's  Tallulah. 

She  can  be  as  cold  as  the  right  eye  of  a 
defunct  fish — and  as  hard  as  the  ice  it's 
packed  in. 

That's  part  and  parcel  of  the  glitter  that 
goes  to  make  up  such  a  one  as  Bankhead.  No 
complete  sofly  can  sway  and  rule  the  interest 
of  the  thousands. 

About  that  name — she  got  it  from  her 
grandmother,  who  was  named  for  Tallulah 
Falls,  in  the  state  of  Georgia.    It's  Indian. 

Once,  before  she  went  to  London,  Ethel 
Barrymore  advised  Tallulah  to  change  the 
handle. 

Barrymore  suggested  Barbara  or  Mary,  and 
the  Bankhead  girl  was  trying  to  make  a  choice. 

Joseph  Hergesheimer  saw  her  at  lunch  one 
day. 

"I  hear  you're  thinking  of  changing  your 
name."  the  novelist  said.    Tallulah  admitted  it. 

"If  you  do,"  said  Hergesheimer,  "I'll  never 
write  another  line,  and  I'm  a  poor  man  who 
must  write  to  eat.    I  like  to  eat." 

Tallulah  didn't  change  it! 

And  now,  talking  pictures.  I  asked  Tallulah 
why. 

"Let's  be  frank,"  she  said.  "We're  all 
working  for  money.  The  legitimate  stage  is 
too  uncertain.  And  I  can  get  over  to  a  wider 
audience  in  pictures,  and  a  wider  success — 
I  hope." 

Then,   too.   she   was  getting  fed   up   with 


giving  the  same  old  show  every  night.   Talkies 
are  an  ever-changing  panorama. 

Of  course,  it's  a  new  medium  for  her,  and 
she  was  stumped  once  or  twice.  But  she's  a 
good,  smart  trouper.  No  tricks  can  stay 
tricks  that  Tallulah  doesn't  know — not  for 
long. 

Then,  too,  she  wanted  to  come  home  again. 
Family  and  friends  are  here.  Her  father  is  a 
Congressman  from  an  Alabama  district. 
.  And  she  wants  to  be  known  and  liked  in 
America.  Home's  home,  and  you  can't  get 
away  from  it. 

I  asked  her  if  she  had  any  preference  about 
parts. 

"Parts?"  she  said.  "I  have  played — and  will 
play — anything.  Creating  a  character  is 
pretty  much  of  an  accident,  anyway.  I 
played  Camillc  just  because  I  wanted  to  do 
something  different. 

"Jeanne  Eagels  made  her  biggest  hit  ad 
Sadie  Thompson  in  'Rain,'  but  that's  because 
it  was  a  great  part,  and  not  because  she  did 
it  better  than  her  other  roles.  Chaplin  might 
just  as  easily  have  hit  first  on  a  palm  beach 
suit  and  straw  hat,  and  made  another  char- 
acter." 

Sound  trouper's  point  of  view,  that.  But 
then,  acting's  her  one  great  interest.  Acting — 
and  talking.  She's  one  of  the  best  conversa- 
tionalists going — her  talk  snaps  and  sparkles 
and  rings. 

She's  a  great  mimic,  with  a  leaning  toward 
irony. 

WELL,  there's  a  picture  of  Tallulah  Bank- 
head,  Alabama  girl  who  captivated  Lon- 
don for  eight  long,  successful  years  and  is  now 
making  a  dash  on  the  interest  and  affections  of 
the  old  home  country. 

You'll  see  Tallulah  in  "The  Tarnished 
Lady."  I  hope  the  screen  gives  off  the  glamor- 
ous, interesting  personage  that  is  the  girl 
herself. 

If  it  does,  she'll  start  conversation  and  argu- 
ments that  will  stretch  from  here  to  Michael- 
mas and  back  as  far  as  Omaha. 

She's  that  kind  of  girl!    She's  somebody! 

And  her  native  land  may  yet  hear  the  cries 
of  hundreds  of  Tallulah-mad  flappers — the 
sort  that  echoed  through  London's  streets. 

"Ooh!    Yoo-hoo!    There's  Tallulah!" 


WATER       WEAR 


Photoplm   .\1\<\/im    roi  MAY,  19   i  i(»9 

NOW    'TAKES      ON      NEW       MODE      AND      MEANING 


NEVEK   BEFORE  — 


IN  SWIM  SUITS 


JLmS  SUMMER,  as  never  before,  smart  styles  will 
strut  the  sands.  Gay  colors  will  ride  the  waves. 
Winter-weary  bodies  will  call  for  swim  suits  slim 
and  supple  .  .  .  suits  that  let  the  sun-rays  and  air- 
waves frisk  about  them! 

For,  thanks  to  Catalina,  water  wear  has  taken  on 
new  mode  and  meaning.  Here  are  sw  im  suits  so  novel, 
so  uncommon,  so  refreshingly  smart,  that  the  stars  cf 
the  screen  world  have  selected  them  for  personal  wear. 

The  athletic  cut  predominates,  as  it  should.  You 
get  all  the  muscle-play  in  the  world.  Nothing  to  bind 
or  fetter!  VThy?  Because  each  Catalina  is  cut-by-hand 
and  knit-to-fit  by  our  original  Ribstitcb  process.  Yet 


all  the  while — wet  or  dry — your  suit  hugs  you  snug, 
clings  to  the  body  minus  mar  or  wrinkle! 

And  talk  about  colon!  Here  are  new  Catalina  Multi- 
Tooes  that  speak  of  sun  and  sand  and  surf  \'imJ. 
sparkling  hues  with  the  tone  and  tang  of  the  sea!  In 
one  piece  suits,  two  piece  suits,  ensembles — all  at 
prices  that  are  litde  short  of  a  revelation. 

If  you  want  to  see  the  swim  suit  sensation  of  the 
year,  ask  your  dealer  to  show  you  the  1931  Catalinis 
— "Worn  by  the  Stars  of  Hollywood."  In  case  he 
doesn't  happen  to  have  them  in  stock,  write  us  direct 
and  we"II  see  that  you  are  promptly  supplied.  Address 
Pacific  Knitting  Mills,  443  S.San  Pedro  St., Los  Angeles 


-4s 


io6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


Whw  llie 


MERCURY  EMBLEM 


befc 


ore 


you 


se 


no 


FLOWERS  Li  WIRE 


■  You  will  want  to  send  Mother 
flowers  on  Mother's  Day,  May  10 
— even  though  the  length  of  the  land 
may  separate  you. 

■  And  thanks  to  the  guaranteed 
service  given  by  bonded  members  of 
the  Florists'  Telegraph  Delivery 
Association,  you  may  order  flowers 
by  wire  with  perfect  assurance. 

■  You  can  identify  a  florist  as  a 
bonded  F.  T.  D.  member  by  the 
"Mercury"  emblem  on  his  window. 

■  You  will  appreciate  the  protection 
of  this  emblem,  not  only  on  Mother's 
Day,  but  every  time  you  "Say  U 
with  Flowers." 

ijor  Jjldant  Q Lower  JJeliveriei 

THE  F.T.D/-MERCIIRY"WAY 

IS  GUARANTEED 


As  Mary  Faces  Forty 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  67  ] 


then  being  photographed  before  I  dismounted 
to  be  presented  to  the  King  and  Queen  of  a 
tribe.  On  that  other  trip  I  was  really  miser- 
able. [I  remembered  the  packing  cases  of  gifts 
Mary  Pickford  had  opened  for  me.]  For  eight 
weeks  we  were  without  green  vegetables.  I 
don't  like  meat  and  desserts.  I  lived  on  tea 
and  wafers.  We  could  have  gone  to  Europe, 
but  Douglas  might  as  well  have  stayed  at  Pick- 
fair.  He  would  not  have  had  the  obstacles  to 
conquer. 

SEPARATION?"  Again  she  smiled.  "Not 
now,  no.  Douglas  and  I  are  two  normal  hu- 
man beings  who  like  each  other  very  much.  In 
six  months  or  six  years,  how  can  I  say  in  this  pe- 
culiar, shifting,  weird  nightmare  of  a  world 
what  will  happen?  I  cannot  deny  that  there 
may  be  a  separation.  I  can  only  say  there  is 
none  now.    Just  a  vacation. 

"  I  haven't  half  as  much  money  as  people 
credit  to  me.  But  I  have  enough  to  live  com- 
fortably. Conservatively,  I  have  lost  two  mil- 
lions that  I  might  have  saved  on  productions. 
That  is  conservative.  I  am  spending  more 
money  today.  I  am  buying  more  expensive 
clothes.  I  am  taking  a  pleasure  in  being  smart- 
ly dressed.  Life  is  very  short.  Why  shouldn't 
I  spend  and  enjoy  now  that  I  have  earned  it? 

"  'Secrets?'  Certainly  I  will  tell  you  whv  I 
destroyed  'Secrets'  at  a  loss  of  $300,000.  Al- 
though my  talk'ng  pictures  have  actually 
grossed  more  than  my  silents  ('Coquette'  made 
S300,000  more,  playing  in  3,000  houses,  than 
'Daddy  Long  Legs'  in  9,000),  I  presume  I  am 
not  at  the  pinnacle  of  success  any  longer.  I 
am  not  a  novelty  and  my  pictures  must  be 
good.  I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  a 
good  picture  is  almost  an  accident. 

"  'Secrets'  was  not  that  kind  of  an  accident. 
It  was  the  most  stupid  I  ever  saw — including 
myself.  I  looked  all  right.  I  really  photo- 
graphed younger  and  better  than  I  did  in  'Kiki.' 
But  it  was  all  talk  and  no  action. 

"I  believe  talkies  should  not  have  more  dia- 
logue than  silents  had  titles.  I  am  not  a  gentle 
Julia  type.  It  is  what  I  hate  most.  It  would 
be  a  good  story  for  Ruth  Chatterton.  She  is 
considered  an  actress.  I  am  considered  a  per- 
sonality. 

"Age  has  little  to  do  with  pictures  today. 
Look  at  George  Arliss,  Marie  Dressier,  Wallace 
Beery.  People  do  not  ask  the  age  of  Ruth 
Chatterton  or  Ann  Harding.  It  is  merit  that 
counts  now. 

"I  realize  I  am  not  a  baby.  I  don't  want  to 
play  Pollyannas.  But  I  must  have  pictures 
where  I  not  only  can  show  merit  as  an  actress 
but  can  live  up  to  the  public's  conception  of 
personality.  I  must  be  able  to  move  in  them. 
Which  is  why  I  say,  if  a  really  good  picture 
comes  along,  I  will  probably  make  it  but  I  will 
retire  rather  than  make  a  bad  one. " 


Gladys  Smith  speaking  from  the  perfectly 
groomed  figure  of  Mary  Pickford.  I  even  dared 
to  say  I  liked  Gladys  Smith  better;  that  I  had 
not  particularly  enjoyed  the  thought  of  one  of 
the  people  building  a  castle  and  barricading 
herself  in  it,  entertaining  royalty  and  royalty 
only. 

Gladys  laughed.  "  You  never  read  about  the 
other  parties,  do  you?  One  evening  a  friend 
came  up  for  the  first  time.  She  was  dressed 
beautifully  and  with  dignity.  There  were 
twelve  very  old  friends  at  the  table.  Tom 
Geraghty,  Marjorie  Daw,  one  of  my  closest 
girl  friends,  Al  Parker  and  his  wife.  Names 
you  don't  often  read,  perhaps.  Suddenly  Doug- 
las disappeared  under  the  table.  He  was  tick- 
ling the  guests'  legs.  It's  a  great  game.  You 
want  to  try  it.  The  lady  was  a  bit  disappointed 
at  first,  but  now  she  loves  it. " 

"  Do  you  know  Greta  Garbo?  How  do  you 
like  her?" 

Gladys  leaned  forward  anxiously.  "  Frances 
Marion  called  me  and  we  are  going  to  lunch 
with  Miss  Garbo.  I  am  so  thrilled.  So  nerv- 
ous. I  have  been  trying  to  plan  what  to  say. 
She  doesn't  like  to  talk  about  her  work,  does 
she?  Or  her  personal  life? — I  think  I  shall  talk 
about  Sweden.    That  will  be  a  safe  subject 

"  Do  you  know,  I  still  shake  all  over  when  I 
am  in  the  presence  of  Gloria  Swanson?  The 
other  day  she  was  here  and  I  had  to  change  my 
clothes  in  front  of  her.  I  nearly  died.  I  had 
on  an  old  combination  that  was  too  long.  I 
couldn't  understand  why  I'd  hung  on  to  that 
one — why  I  hadn't  discarded  it  long  ago. 

"I  was  so  frightened  when  I  saw  Mussolini. 
I  hid  my  autograph  book  behind  my  back. 
'What  have  you  there?'  he  asked  finally.  I 
almost  stuttered  telling  him.  What  if  he  had 
refused  to  sign  it?" 

HPHERE  was  more,  much  more.  My  conver- 
*■  sation  with  Gladys  Smith  was  long.  You  can 
believe  it  or  not,  but  I  am  convinced  that  Gladys 
Smith  is  as  awed  of  celebrities  (even  when  they 
visit  Pickfair)  as  Mary  Jones  from  Milwaukee 
is  awed  by  Mary  Pickford. 

And  I  am  also  convinced  that  the  struggle 
which  raged  between  Gladys  and  Man-  is  al- 
most over — the  Gladys  has  almost  decided  to 
let  Mary  enjoy  the  memories  of  the  past  while 
she  prances  around  in  the  present.  Gladys 
goes  ice-skating  every  Saturday  afternoon  with 
her  niece.  "  I  have  loads  of  beaus  in  the  rinks. 
We  put  pennies  in  the  slot-machines  to  see 
what  we  can  win.  We're  trying  for  a  penknife 
but  so  far  we've  gotten  only  jelly-beans. " 

In  fact,  just  between  ourselves,  I  don't  think 
it  will  be  long  before  Gladys  will  have  con- 
vinced Mary  that  she'd  like  to  see  Joan  Craw- 
ford have  a  baby  so  she  can  get  the  joy  of  being 
a  grandmother,  even  a  step-one,  while  she  is 
young  enough  to  romp  with  the  baby. 


Heart  Throb 


I  am  a  poor  young  man  and  have 
been  an  unfortunate  cripple  for  the 
past  twenty-four  years,  due  to  a  doc- 
tor's mistake  in  injecting  into  my 
spine  some  medicine  to  cure  me  of 
diphtheria.  I  haven't  walked  a  step 
since  then.  All  these  years  I  have 
been  shut  in  from  the  rest  of  the 
world,  deprived  of  all  comfort  and 
pleasure  in  life.  Doctors  diagnose  my 
case  of  muscular  paralysis  as  hope- 
less. All  day  long  I  must  sit  in  a  chair 


like  a  prisoner  in  a  cell.  I  am  living  a 
life  of  misery  and  if  it  were  not  for 
books  and  magazines  life  would  be 
unbearable. 

I  am  proud  to  say  that  I  have  been 
reading  PHOTOPLAY  for  many 
years.  In  all  these  years  your  maga 
zine  has  proved  of  much  enjoyment 
to  me  as  I  like  to  read  about  the  stars 
and  doings  in  the  movie  world,  even 
though  I  can't  see  any  pictures  at  all. 
H.  J.  D. 


PHOTOPl  w    M  M3AZIN1     i  OH    M  Mf,  1       I 


IO7 


1**.  >M 


a*4  v^ 


*>*»' 


■0 


5fi* 


k»o 


o^ 


*& 


S& 


.t^?S^ 


.^v 


>* 


•IP 


*£ 


s^<Toi 


1^; 


,\o*' 


I 


tfcc 


*ZJ*ZJ* 


tT*M* 


<*\^* 


jSvt* 


Zo* 


1*1 


<.°: 


*o« 


Art1 


s^kgp 


C*£ 


WB?^ef  ***■ 


o< 


3<e 


A* 


\<* 


te< 


i*° 


\* 


*° 


»xe*     #•      ,ce** 


^ 


e*j 


,mvO 


*°°   CO-  A«*. 


vfe 


**Z**Z3# 


& 


SOct 


** 


V 


\W 


eV 


*<**<•;>* 


»*°! 


t.*1* 


l<*» 


c° 


^ 


a* 


\e 


no* 


,«*> 


*<* 


>o* 


<>^i 


t« 


n* 


U 


I*1 


io&' 


»°: 


>0* 


<o< 


de 


.e* 


I* 


*o 


«<* 


^ 


■* 


**°1  mJ 


»\« 


«o 


o<* 


<^* 


5oe 


•e\>ef>  ^  :;* 


#* 


rf* 


,0*, 


V° 


lO^' 


&* 


*p 


+* 


ov* 


A* 


,„* 


>" 


I^c 


\o* 


io8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


K^slaiidia  hJJeti 

chooses  the  new  Meshanet 

for  Summer  Days 

Claudia  Dell,  charming  Radio  Pictures 
featured  player,  couldn't  believe  this  Hubrite 
Informal  Frock  cost  only  $5.95.  "But,"  she 
said,  "it's  so  soft,  so  smart,  and  so  well  made!" 

This  cotton  meshanet  dress(No.  527-Sizes 
14  to  20),  in  yellow,  pinlc,  blue.green  or  white, 
is  typical  of  every  Hubrite  Informal  Frock  . .  . 
fine  materials,  carefully  finished,  cut  to  fit  and 
priced  unusually  low — from  $2.00  to  $11.00. 

At  such  stores  as  McCteery's,  New  York;  Fi- 
lene's,  Boston;  Steiger's,  Springfield;  Sibley's, 
Rochester,  Taylor's,  Kansas  City;  Younker 
Bros.,  Des  Moines,  and  Coulter's,  Los  Angeles, 
are  Hubrite  Informal  Frocks  displayed.  Or  you 
may  order  direct  from  Boston. 

Send  for  Style  Folder  P-5 

Prices  slightly  higher  West  of  Rockies 


HUBRITE 


Ji  tfo  nnat  {JhocAs 


100- 112  Shawmut  Avenue,  Boston,  Mass. 


A  Melancholy  Wisecracker 

run  j.D  from  pack  58  ) 


of  a  sudden,  he'll  get  morose  and  melancholy 
and  be  as  quiet  as  a  tombstone.  We  who  know 
him  well— or  think  we  do — believe  his  smart- 
alecking  is  largely  artificial. 

"I  hat  smart-aleck  character  is  one  he's  de- 
v  eloped  since  his  first  picture  appearance.  You 
see,  he  first  started  in  one  of  those  country-boy 
rdles.  His  pictures  looked  just  like  Charles 
Kay.  'Heck,'  he  said,  'I  don't  want  to  be 
known  as  the  Second  Charlie  Ravi'  -So  he  de- 
vised the  direct  opposite — the  wise  guy  with 
smart  cracks — and  he's  played  that  on  the 
screen  so  much  that  he's  that  way  off  screen." 

SO  it  went.  So  it  went,  on  and  on  and  on. 
One  told  this;  the  other  that  .  .  . 

Now,  the  first  thing  that  strikes  people  on 
meeting  Bill  is  his  size.  Looks  much  bigger 
than  on  the  screen.  Really  stands  six  feet,  and 
is  husky.  Clothes  worry  him,  because  he 
doesn't  think  he  wears  them  well.  Has  a  very 
small  wardrobe,  compared  with  most  screen 
stars.  Likes  quiet  clothes — dark  grays  and 
serge  blues,  but  does  go  in  for  red-hot-colored 
sweaters  and  belted  leather  coats.  Hates 
garters  and  won't  wear  them,  whenever  he  can 
help  it.    Never  wears  a  straw  hat. 

The  one  big  affection  in  his  life  is  his  mother. 
It's  really  an  affection — not  an  affectation. 
She's  a  white-haired  Southern  matron.  Bill 
was  born  in  Vuhginiuh,suh! — Staunton,  where 
the  military  academy  is,  but  he  never  attended 
it,  although  untrue  biographies  say  he  did. 
His  dearest  possession — among  all  the  lace 
pillows  and  pretty  pictures  and  antiques  that 
he  likes  to  sit  and  look  at  by  the  hour — is  a 
miniature  of  his  mother.  His  sister  once  gave 
it  to  him  for  a  Christmas  present. 

He  drives  a  five-year-old  car,  "and  I'll  be 
driving  it  yet  five  years  from  now,"  he  says. 
He  never  has  the  top  up,  and  wears  a  beret  be- 
cause the  wind  blows  his  hair  out  of  place.  He 
has  a  chauffeur,  who  comes  from  Bill's  home 
town  in  Virginia  and  used  to  be  a  Pullman 
porter.  He  has  black  hair,  brown  eyes  and  a 
beard  that's  so  heavy  and  tough  that  barbers 
hate  to  shave  him. 

If  you  see  him  on  the  set,  you'll  always  see 
him  (except  when  cameras  are  turning)wearing 
a  white  silk  scarf  about  his  neck,  tucked  in  his 


collar.  He  wears  it  into  the  lunchroom,  too. 
Whenever  he  can,  he  prefers  to  wear  a  scarf 
instead  of  a  collar  and  tie. 

He's  extremely  lazy  and  admits  it.  Likes  to 
sit  by  the  hour.  His  idea  of  a  swell  afternoon 
at  the  beach  is  not  swimming  or  playing  ball 
or  racing,  but  just  sitting.  Nights,  though,  he 
likes  to  whoop  it  up.  He  is  quite  abstemious 
at  that.  Delights  in  getting  a  crowd  together 
and  then  crashing  in  on  other  people's  parties. 

They  don't  ever  know  what  he'll  do  on  the 
set.  Many  times  he  has  "broken"  a  scene  by 
laughing  at  some  one  else  on  the  set,  or  working 
a  joke  that's  not  in  the  story  and  couldn't  bi 
or  almost  anything  at  all.  Once  he  learned  that 
actors  on  another  set  were  quitting  work  at 
four  o'clock.  When  four  o'clock  rolled  around, 
he  stopped  in  the  middle  of  a  scene,  bawled 
'it's  four  o'clock  and  I'm  going  home!'  and 
then  sulked  the  rest  of  the  day  and  evening 
because  the  director  made  him  stay  and  work 
to  the  finish  of  the  sequence  they  were  shooting. 

He's  not  jealous  professionally — either  of 
other  actors  or  other  clowns.  "If  somebody 
can  'steal  the  picture'  from  me,  it's  all  right," 
he  says,  "because  people  will  still  say  that  the 
Haines  picture  is  a  wow,  so  I  get  credit  any- 
way!" As  for  other  buffoons.  Bill  loves  to 
watch  and  laugh  at  their  clowning  just  like 
other  people  like  to  watch  and  laugh  at  his. 

He  can  bring  tears  to  his  eyes  at  will,  and 
thinks  he  can  do  good  sob-stuff  scenes. 

"DILLY  keeps  his  entire  family — besides  his 
■'-'mother,  there  are  two  brothers  and  two  sis- 
ters. One  brother,  George,  is  his  secretary. 
Once  in  a  while,  just  for  the  fun  of  it,  he  gets 
his  sisters  and  brothers  work  as  extras  in  pic- 
tures. 

He  likes  dogs.  Innumerable  stray  mutts 
hang  around  that  dressing-room-bungalow  of 
his  off  the  lot,  because  he  sees  to  it  that  they're 
fed.  He's  always  kind  to  dogs.  That's  more 
than  he  is  to  people.  He  likes  to  play  practical 
jokes  on  people.  Or  shock  them.  Interviewers 
are  always  fair  game,  anyway,  in  his  estima- 
tion. He  usually  tells  them  anything  but  the 
truth,  or  what  he  really  thinks  and  believes. 

"What's  the  use?"  he  says;  "they  never 
print  what  you  tell  them,  anyway." 


Hurrell 


Next  to  his  mother,  William  Haines  loves  antiques  best — especially  Early 
American  pieces.  This  is  the  upper  sitting  room  of  his  home,  done  in 
knotted  pine  in  the  Georgian  period.  All  the  furnishings  are  authentic 
pieces  of  their  period.  It's  one  of  the  most  beautiful  rooms  in  Hollywood — 
or  the  country,  for  that  matter 


PHOTOP1  w    M  IGAZIN1     i  01    M  MT,  1       I 


I  09 


oot  for  foot  of  film,  minute 
for  minute  of  your  time,  you'll 
get  more  fun  and  more  entertain- 
ment from  one  of  Educational'* 
comedy  or  novelty  short  subjects 
than  from  almost  anything  else 
on  the  program.  They're  packed 
with  action.  They're  jammed  h  it  li 
laughs,  or  thrills — or  hoth.  So,  no 
matter  what  feature  pictures  are 
showing  in  your  neighborhood, 
find  out  what  short  subjects  are 


playing,  too.  It  may  be  time  for 
yon  to  see  one  of  the  comedies 
illustrated  above.  They're  show- 
ing now  in  the  country's  best 
theatres.  And  you  can  count  on 
any  one  of  them  to  make  a  "rood 
show   brtter. 


"THE  SPICE  OF  THE  PROGRAM" 


EDUCATIONAL  FILM  EXCHANGES,  INC     E.  W.  II  t  MtfONS,  Pnaidemt—  Exeeatire  Ofiees:  1501  Broadway.  New  York.  N.V. 


I  IO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


still  Beautiful 
if  not  still  new 

— IDE  *V  (ir/iic/i  may  be  used  on  a 
moment's  notice)  lias  kept  it  so 


ho  doesn't  wish  that  a  new  frock  or 
gown  would  keep  its  fresh  daintiness? 

Hundreds  of  thousands  of  women  have 
found  that  it  can  be  done  with  the  simple, 
pleasant  help  of  DEW.  This  crystal-pure 
deodorant  and  instant  non-perspirant 
keeps  frocks  and  gowns  free  of  perspira- 
tion stains  and  moisture  spots. 

DEW  can  be  used  at  any  time,  even 
while  dressing  It  will  not  irritate  a  deli- 
cate skin  or  harm  the  most  fragile  of  fabrics 
when  the  simple  directions  are  followed. 
Use  it  as  often  as  needed. 

At  all  drug  and  department  stores  in 
spill -proof  flasks:  —  25  cents,  50  cents 
and  $1.00. 

DEW  instantly  and  completely 
deodorizes  sanitary  pads 

Lambert-Fesler,  Inc. 

St.  Louis,  U.  S.  A.,  and  Toronto,  Canada 

DEW 

Crystal-pure  Deodorant    r    Instant  Non-perspirant 


Can  be  used  at  any 
time.  Stops  perspira- 
tion instantly.    Won't 
irritate  the  skin. 


Lambert-Fesler,  Inc. 

Dept.  J-19,  Del  Monte  Way.  St.  Louis 

Inclosed  is  10c.  Please  send  DEW  sample  to: 


Address 

City 


itate- 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 


LNUED  1'ROM  PAGE  84  ] 


SOONER  or  later  it  always  happens.  Johnny 
Mack   Brown,  wife  and   baby,   have  been 

living  in  a  simple  little  cottage  in  an  obscure 
part  of  Hollywood  for  several  years. 

Johnny  has  been  saving  his  money,  but  that 
can't  last  forever.  Now  he's  building  an 
English  home  in  Beverly  Hills. 

WHEN    you    saw    Richard    Cromwell    in 
"Tol'able     David,"     you     immediately 
placed  Dick  as  a  nice  bashful  kid. 

The  truth  of  the  matter  is  that  the  lad  is 
pretty  doggone  sophisticated,  but  somebody 
must  have  told  him  about  preserving  the 
illusion;  so  whenever  he  has  an  interview  or 
goes  to  see  a  producer  he  stands  just  outside 
the  door  and  takes  off  his  tie  and  opens  his 
shirt  at  the  throat.  It  gives  that  fresh,  boyish 
effect  when  he  enters  the  room. 

IF  you've  been  wondering  about  Dolores  Del 
Rio,  here's  the  answer. 

Cedric  Gibbons,  her  husband,  would  rather 

she  retired  from  the  screen,  but  he  knows  that 

Dolores  would  be  unhappy,  so  he  has  waived 

his  objections. 

However,   Dolores'  physical  condition  has 


kept  her  inactive.  She  was  much  more  seri- 
ously ill  than  the  newspapers  have  led  you  to 
believe,  and  it  will  be  some  months  before 
she'll  be  fit  to  work. 

NEWEST  cinemaland  yachtster  is 
Marjorie  White.  She  just 
bought  a  34-foot  cruiser,  and  named 
it  "Ali  Baba." 

Says  she's  going  to  give  a  yachting 
party  for  two-score  script  writers. 
"Ah  Baba  and  the  Forty  Thieves." 

•"THE  Hollywood  Script  revives  this  story 
*■  about  Chaplin,  which  will  bear  repetition. 

A  society  matron  asked  him  if  he  would 
attend  a  charity  bazaar  and  occupy  the  box  of 
honor.  "You  needn't  stay,"  she  said,  "but 
if  we  can  advertise  that  you  will  be  there,  we 
can  sell  more  tickets." 

"Don't  you  think  the  Goldwyn  lion  would 
serve  your  purpose  just  as  well?"  was  the 
comedian's  serious  retort. 

A  DRIAX  dresses  the  stars  for  Metro 
-'^■pictures  and  he  has  made  some  interesting 
observations  about  some  of  them. 

[  PLEASE  rUHN  TO  PAGE  112  ] 


Shooting  a  ship  scene  for  "Never  the  Twain  Shall  Meet"  on  an  old  tub 
in  the  harbor  of  San  Pedro,  the  port  of  Los  Angeles.  Our  old  friend 
Mitchell  Lewis  is  yelling  a  lusty  and  bewhiskered  defiance  into  the 
microphone,  while  the  sound-muffled  camera  grinds  at,  and  the  silver 
reflectors  light  up  his  face.  Director  Van  Dyke,  who  made  "Trader 
Horn,"  leaning  on  the  platform,  is  bossing  the  job,  while  the  script  girls, 
in  the  lower  left  hand  corner,  check  up  on  the  dialogue  and  details  of 
costume.  Later  on,  as  the  light  fails,  the  big  arc  will  be  put  into  action. 
It's  all  in  the  day's  work 


Photopi  w    Macaiim    I  01   M  v.     1      1 


I  I  I 


FINE  CAR   LEADERSHIP 

The  leadership  of  the  Cord  front-drive  in  the  fine  car 
field  daily  hecomes  more  pronounced.  This  is  trace- 
able to  the  accumulative  experience  of  Cord  owners 
who  enjoy  advantages  not  obtainable  in  any  other 
automobile.  Included  among  these  exclusive  advan- 
tages are  effortless  handling,  a  different  readability,  a 
-•use  of  security,  and  an  absence  of  fatigue  for  driver 
and  passengers  that  obsolete  any  car  less  efficient 
and  commodious.  And  now,  an  improved  Cord 
car  is  available  at  prices  comparable  with  ordinal*) 
standard  cars— a  sensational  value  in  the  fine  car  field. 

BROUGHAM  USK-SED  ANSIS N»  r  KTIBLK  CABMOLI  r*M9S  -  CONVERT!  BU  PHAI  l"\-ni' 

Price,  f.  o.  l>     \uhurn.  Imli.n..    FqaipmiM  Inrr  than  \mndar4.rxtin 

\    I     B    I     K    N  IUTOMOBILI  COMPANY,         <    I     B   I     H    n  .         I    N    n   I    \    N    \ 


CORD 

FRONT    DRIVE 


I  I  2 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


GLAZO   creates 

the  smart  vogues 
in  fingertips! 


H, 


.ave  you  some  charming  memories 
of  fingertips  of  a  special  loveliness  that 
are  seen  about  nowadays?  Memories, 
perhaps,  of  fingers  delicately  tipped  with 
flower-like  loveliness  rising  up  in  greet- 
ing ...  or  of  brilliant  fingers  dancing  a 
ballet  of  impatience  on  the  table-top. 

Obviously,  neither  nature  nor  ordi- 
nary polishes  can  account  for  nails  of 
such  attractiveness.  The  uninitiated  ask 
what  and  how  this  special  charm;  and 
the  answer  is — Glazo  does  it! 

Glazo  polishes, so prizedand  sought  for 
their  exquisiteshades, 
have  won  wide  and 


distinguished  approval.  They  brush  on 
easily  and  smoothly,  without  piling  up, 
chipping,  or  turning  white  at  the  edges. 
And  Glazo's  new  Cuticle  Remover 
Creme  introduces  a  superior  method  of 
caring  for  the  cuticle.  Try  this  gentle, 
white  cream,  and  find  for  yourself  how 
even  and  smooth  it  leaves  the  cuticle 
edges.  Other  Glazo  preparations  assist 
in  the  perfection  of  the  Glazo  manicure 
—Glazo  Nicotine  Remover,  Glazo  Nail 
White,  Glazo  Cuticle  Massage  Cream. 
You  will  find  these  Glazo  products 
at  your  favorite  toilet 
goods  counter. 


Cal  York's  Monthly 

Broadcast  from 

Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  110) 

"In  the  old  days,  Joan  Crawford  could  see 
herself  in  nothing  but  a  skin-tight  dress  and 
circular  skirt.  She  was  like  a  little  girl — 
frightened  to  see  herself  in  anything  else. 
Today,  Joan  is  getting  something  akin  to  the 
flair  of  Gloria  Swanson  for  clothes.  It  is  as 
though  she  had  found  the  key  to  life  and  the 
result  is  finding  expression  in  her  clothes. 
She  is  even  creating  new  ideas  and  modes  for 
herself. 

"Before  'The  Divorcee,'  Norma  Shearer 
was  smart,  but  conservatively  smart.  There 
is  a  smartness  which  is  interesting  and  one 
which  is  uninteresting.  Norma  used  to  be 
smartly  uninteresting  because  she  was  afraid 
to  dare. 

It  was  necessary  to  sneak  daring  things  upon 
her.  No  more.  She  leads  the  styles  rather 
than  follows. 

"Greta  Garbo  is  much  interested  in  clothes 
for  a  picture  (Adrian  emphasized  the  pro- 
fessional interest)  if  she  likes  the  story.  She 
didn't  believe  she  could  wear  the  clothes  in 
'Romance,'  so  had  no  interest  until  they 
were  completed.  Then  she  adored  them. 
What  she  really  likes  is  smart  modern  things. 
If  she  has  a  picture  where  she  can  wear  them, 
she  warms  up  to  the  subject  of  clothes  as  much 
as  any  woman." 

ROYALTY  must  never,  never  be  mentioned 
in  connection  with  ladies  of  the  screen!    A 
couple  of  European  courts  are  agog  over  such 


(Above)  —  Perfumed  Glazo  Liquid 
Polish  comes  in  Natural,  Flame,  Ge- 
ranium or  Crimson — large  bottle,  50c. 
Perfumed  Glazo  Polish  Remover,  }5c. 


(Below)  —  Glazo  Cuticle  Remover 
Creme  presents  a  new  and  superior 
method  of  removing  excess  cuticle.  In 
a  convenient  tube,  50c. 


(Right)  —  The  famous  Glazo  twin 
package  contains  both  Liquid  Polish 
a 'id  Palish  Remover,  50c.  Choice  of 
Natural,  Colorless,  or  Deep  Shell. 


*' 


THE  GLAZO  COMPANY,  Inc.  Dept.  GQ-51 
191  Hudson  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
I  enclose  six  cents.  Please  send  me  samples  of  Glazo 
Liquid  Polish,  Polish  Remover,  and  the  new  Cuticle 
Remover  Creme.  (If  you  live  in  Canada,  address 
P.  O.  Box  2320,  Montreal.) 


Name 

Address  ■ 
Cm 


.  State.. 


Hist!  This  sinister  gent  is  back  in 
Hollywood  again,  scattering  mystery. 
It's  S.  S.  Van  Dine,  creator  of  Philo 
Vance,  the  suave  detective.  Van 
Dine'snewestis"Blue  Moon  Murder," 
and  Walter  Huston  will  play  Vance. 
Others  who  have  done  the  role  are 
William  Powell  and  Basil  Rathbone 


Photopj  11    M  \>  \/im    i  01   M  w  .    1      1 


ipling,  which  appeared  in  .i  newspa] 
Budapest,  Hun. 

\   Huns  irian  journalist   said  the   Prii 
daughter  of  the  king  of  the  B<  l  ;i  ins,  de- 
sired a  separation  from  her  husband,  * 
Prince  Humbert  of  [taly      I  h<  p 
said  that  the  ( 'r««n  Pnn<  <■  had  "i 
relations  with  an  Rt»gH«h  rn©\  it-  star  with  whom 
he  «as  will  acquainted  several  \> 

This   gossipy    note    threw    the    i 
Belgium  and  Italy  in t.<  .i  fn  n 

Rome  issued  no  denial.  From  tli<  Belgian 
palace  came  this  statement: 

["he  honor  of  a  family,  whether  royal, 
middle  or  working  class,  is  entitled  to  pro- 
i.  The  Prince  of  Piedmont  (The  Crown 
Prince)  may  decide  to  bring  legal  action  Dp 
to  now  lliv  Royal  Highness  and  the  Belgian 
Royal  Family  have  opposed  with  disdainful 
silence  all  such  rum. 

Moral,  never  couple  a  motion  picture  actress' 
name  with  royalty,  or  papa  in-law  will  spank! 

BILLIE  DOVE  collects  fleas.  Lots 
of  them.  They're  her  hobby. 
Dead  ones,  all  dressed  up  in  tiny 
clothes,  and  mounted  in  nutshells 
and  such-like. 

You  look  at  'em  through  a  magni- 
fying glass.    If  you're  interested. 

JOHN  BARRYMORE  has  a  lot  of  most 
ntric  and  disconcerting  ways,  as  Harry 
Lang  has  already  told  you.  One  of  them  is  this: 
When  B  ram  well  Fletcher  came  on  the  "Sven- 
gali"  set  to  play  the  role  of  Little  BiUee,  Jack 
would  sit  for  minutes  at  a  time  Staring  at  the 
hoy.  Every  time  BramweU  (what  a  name!) 
stepped  before  the  camera.  Jack  stand  and 
stared. 

It  was  slowly  getting  the  kid's  goat,  until 
director  Archie  Mayo  took  the  young  actor  by 
the  arm.  led  him  to  Barrymore  and.  guiding 
BramwcU's  finger,  touched  Harrymore  on  the 
said  Archie.  "He's  human  after 
all.    Lookce,  he  doesn't  even  lute." 

THEY'RE  telling  the  story  about 
the  guy  who  was  taken  to  a 
Hollywood  hospital  with  what  looked 
like  facial  paralysis. 

"What's  the  matter?  Lock-jaw?" 
asked  the  nurse. 

"No,"  said  the  patient,  talking  out 
of  the  corner  of  his  mouth,  "I've  been 
working  in  gangster  pictures." 

O:'  the  st rankest  and  most  tragic  cases 
in  Hollywood  is  the  case  of  Aileen  I'ringle, 
the  girl  who  happened  before  her  time. 

When  she  first  came  to  pictures  she  had  a 
definite  idea  what  she  wanted  to  do.  A 
sophisticated,  charming  woman  of  the  world, 
herself,  she  wanted  to  play  sophisticated, 
charming  women  of  the  world  in  films.  But 
at  that  time  such  a  thine  was  unheard  of. 
When  Aileen  explained  what  she  meant,  the 
studio  execs  put  her  in  Elinor  Glvn's  "Three 
We,  - 

Aileen  did  this,  but  insisted  that  still  wasn't 
the  idea. 

They  couldn't  understand.  If  you  were  a 
woman  of  the  world,  you  were  a  naughty  vamp 
in  a  velvet  negligee.  She  tried  to  make  them 
see  that  she  wanted  to  be  human  as  well  So 
they  co-starred  her  with  Lew  Cody  in  a  series 
of  far 

Aileen  complained  again. 

"But  we  thought  this  was  what  you  meant!" 
they  said,  quite  confused  about  the  whole 
thing. 

So  Aileen  gave  it  up  as  a  bad  job. 

The  years  passed,  the  microphone  began  its 
dirty  work  and  exactly  the  type  of  woman  that 
Aileen  wanted  to  play  became  the  vogue. 

Norma  Shearer  does  it  perfectly.  So  does 
Ruth  Chatterton  and  Barbara  Stanwyck. 
Aileen  could  do  it,  too.  Her  voice  is  cultured. 
Her  manner  exactly  the  popular  manner  of  the 
moment. 

But  they've  forgotten  about  Aileen.  She 
lived,  professionally,  before  her  time. 


for  washing  woolens  — 

IVORY  SNOW 

an  J  )LuzsiSYCLXnx  wcdJiA; 


Ivory  Snow — tiny  fairy-thin  pearls  of  pure  Ivory  Soap — gives 
extra  protection  to  all  fine  fabrics.  Every  tiny  pearl  is  so  very 
thin  that  it  turns  into  gentle  Ivory  suds  the  moment  water  touches 
it.   liven  lukewarm  water! 

No  waiting  for  hot  water.  No  fussing  with  suds.  No  cooling  to 
the  safe  faintly  warm  temperature.  Now  you  start  with  lukewarm 
water,  add  Ivory  Snow,  and  you'll  have  foamy  suds  in  a  single 
swish.    No  unmelted  soap  left  to  cling  to  woolens  and  silks. 

So  quick!   So  handy!    So  very,  very  gentle!   A  big  box  for  15 1. 


too 


\£, 


Silk 


an< 


woolen 


manufacturers  agree 

"A  perfect  soap  for  silks,"  say  Mal- 
linson,  Cheney  Brothers  and  Truhu. 
"The  ideal  soap  for  woolens,"  say  the 
weavers  of  the  fine  Biltmore  Hand- 
woven  Homespuns,  the  makers  of  the 
downy  Mariposa  blankets  and  the 
Botany  Worsted  Mills,  leading  woolen 
manufacturers. 


*— 


ii4 


T 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


WO  TYPICAL 


CASE  NO.  11  .  .  .  Stenographer,  New 
York  City.  Age  24.  Suffered  from  dryness 
and  scaliness.  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap 
brought  natural  lubrication.  On  30th 
day  dryness  had  entirely  disappeared. 


CASE  NO.  250  .  .  .  Baltimore,  Md. 
Age  37.  Bothered  with  conspicuous  pores 
and  oiliness.  Noticeable  improvement 
4th  day.  On  30th  day  odiness  had  nearly 
disappeared   and    pores   were    smaller. 


ENLARGED  PORES   •   BLACKHEADS   •   BLEMISHES  •  DRY  SKIN  •   OILY  SKIN 


In  the  recent  Nation-Wide  Beauty  Clinic 
nearly  every  type  and  condition  of  skin  was 
represented. 

And  in  side-by-side  comparison  on  the  same 
faces,  Woodbury's  demonstrated  that  it  could 
do  more  to  correct  faulty  complexions  and 
improve  normal  ones  than  any  other  method 
of  daily  skin  care. 

The  test  was  conclusively  simple.  Leading 
dermatologists  asked  612  women  to  use  their 
usual  cleansing  method  on  the  left  side  of 
their  faces,  and  Woodbury  s  on  the  right  side 
...  for  30  da  vs. 


Woodb 


ttry's 


L£oop  i 


1 1 3  women  began  the  treatment  with  en- 
larged pores,  and  ended  the  test  with  the 
problem  either  entirely  or  largely  solved. 
Acne  was  helped  106  times  .  .  .  blackhead  con- 
ditions improved  on  103  faces.  Excessive  oili- 
ness was  corrected  in  115  instances  .  .  .  dry, 
scaly  skin  for  81  patients. 

Make  a  thorough  test  of  Woodbury's  Facial 
Soap.  If  it  cost  a  dollar  a  cake  instead  of  only 
25<i,  it  would  still  be  the  most  economical  and 
surest  way  to  skin  loveliness.  Woodbury's 
may  be  had  at  all  drug  stores  and  toilet  goods 
counters,  or  mail  the  coupon. 


MAY  WE   SEND  YOU   DAINTY   SAMPLES? 
JOHN  H.  WOODBURY,  INC. 

805  Alfred  Street,  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  If  you  live  in  Canada, 
address  John  H.  Woodbury,  Ltd.,  Perth,  Ont. 
I  would  like  advice  on  my  skin  condition  as  checked  he- 
low,  also  trial  cake  of  Woodhury's  Facial  Soap  and  gener- 
ous samples  of  two  Woodhury's  Creams  and  Facial 
Powder.  I  enclose  lOi  to  partly  cover  cost  of  mailing. 
Oily  skin  □  Flahby  skin    D  Sallow  skin  □ 

Drv  skin  D  Coarse  pores  □  Pimples         Q 

Wrinkles  □  Blackheads     □ 

Na  me 


Brickbats  £#Bouquets 

[  CONTINXED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 

When  I  remember  the  lovely,  laughing 
Joan  Crawford  of  "Dancing  Daughters"  and 
compare  her  with  the  grotesque,  hollow-eyed 
heroine  of  "Paid"  I  feel  she  should  cut  out 
this  freak  idea  of  starvation.  She  is  letting 
her  fans  down  badly! 

K  w  Yabbosough, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Doug,  Sr. 

If  "Reaching  for  the  Moon"  is  a  sample  of 
a  1931  vehicle  for  Douglas  Fairbanks  and  his 
unusual  ability  to  portray  good  interesting 
entertainment,  why  not  go  back  to  classic 
literature  where  there  is  at  least  some  sem- 
blance of  plot  and  reason? 

Betty  Ward  Deffebach, 

Houston,  Texas 

Doug,  Sr.,  was  great  in  "Reaching  for  the 
Moon."  This  is  an  up-to-the-minute  picture 
with  lots  of  pep  and  admirably  suited  to  the 
talents  of  the  energetic  Fairbanks.  We  hope 
to  see  him  in  more  of  this  type  of  picture. 
Fred  Callahan, 
New  York  City 

Watch  Out,  Producers! 

Am  I  wrong  in  believing  the  song  "Little 
White  Lies"  was  composed  in  the  spring  of 
1930,  or  was  it  in  full  swing  the  year  after 
"the  boys  came  home"  as  pictured  in  "The 
Last  Parade"?  What  a  slip!  What  a  slip! 
Virginia  Hemrick, 
Ft.  Wayne,  Ind. 

"Dance  Fools,  Dance"  was  a  great  movie, 
and  Joan  Crawford  an  actress  always  worth 
seeing,  but  who  was  the  dumbbell  who  had 
Cliff  Edwards  murdered  at  a  subway  entrance 
in  Chicago,  when  that  city  hasn't  any  sub- 
ways? M-G-M  needs  some  little  girl  like  me 
to  watch  out  for  these  details. 

G.  S.  S., 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 


!    1931.  JOHNH.  WOODBURY,  INC. 


Address - 


Ever  meet  Mickey  Mouse's  daddy? 
The  little  cartoon  comic,  who  seems 
to  be  about  the  most  popular  star  in 
the  world,  is  created  by  Walt  Disney, 
the  smiling  gentleman  here.  And  as 
you  see,  he  has  his  star  well  trained 
in  yessing,  an  old  Hollywood  custom 


Photopi  W   M  IG  MINI    '■  01   M  n 


I  \-Hik1<Is   Rogen 

I  woii'lir  why  Buddy  R  I  10  many 

lesda      n»-  puiilu    kdmita  li<-  makes  k<"*\ 
icenery  bul  i-*  not  dying  fd  Kton  mom 
chid  "acting"  i^  wearing  Rood  looking  clothe* 
|y  when  tlun\  NovaiTO  an,!  M"iit 

gomery  in  "then  tliar  bJDa  " 

Clovei  R 

k.m. 

I    preferred    Baddy    Ro  n-Aw,    in 

"Headi  Up"  t<>  John  Bolei  in  "Kjm  Me 
Again  "     Let's  see  more  of  bin  and   beer 

more   of    his    ■*"gi"g- 

■hi  -  (...<  HOI  I  . 

Dayton,  Ohio 

••Hi,-  Eaatel   I  »y" 

In  "The  B  ay"  I  '■■"  -'  u  i  e  Bennett 

u.i>  charming  and  beautifully  gowned — but 
the  story  I  why  <lo  producers  no  to  such 
extremes?  The  home  of  the  girl  was  unbeliev- 
ably   squalid    anil    so. did    while    Brockton's 

apartment  was  so  luxurious  as  to  be  in  bad 
taste  Surely  her  choice  of  "the  easiest  way" 
would  have  been  plausible  without  this  vast 
difference.    And  the  finish!    Why  must  every 

fallen  woman  gate  through  a  window  in  a 
mist  of  tears  at  the  happy  family  group? 
Maudlin  sentimentality! 

1  didn't  see  enough  of  Hedda  Hopper.     She 

w  i>  simply  .;rand. 

Di  w  \   II 

New  York  City 

Ruth  Chatterton 

All  this  raving  about  Ruth  Chatterton 
puzzles  me.  She  has  about  as  much  emotion 
as  a  wooden  Indian — and  just  about  as  much 
animation.  She  has  a  beautiful  voice — and  it 
is  this  trick  voice  that  has  hypnotised  people 
into  thinking  she's  a  great  actress.  When 
she's  glad,  her  facial  expression  is  exactly  the 
same  as  when  she's  sad!  Her  emotions  don't 
go  beyond  her  throat. 

Diana  Hess. 
New  York  City 

"Unfaithful"  is  another  triumph  for  Ruth 
Chatterton.  She  is  by  far  the  greatest 
dramatic  actress  in  the  talkies,  and  she  has 
never  given  a  bad  performance.  When  I  see 
one  of  her  pictures  I  sutler  all  that  she  is 
suffering.  She  has  the  most  expressive  face 
and  such  a  beautiful  voice.  To  me  she  is  the 
reigning  queen  of  talkie-land. 

-;e  Flint. 
Montgomery,  Ala. 


Heart  Throb 

I  might  have  been  somebody  if  I 
had  followed  the  straight  path.  And, 
now,  thanks  to  some  of  the  fine  talk- 
ing pictures  that  I  have  seen  in  the 
past  two  years  I  feel  that  I  have  a  new 
lease  on  life  and  that  this  time  I  am 
going  to  make  a  success  of  my  life  in- 
stead of  a  mess. 

I  have  done  time,  and  I'm  only 
twenty-one,  but  during  those  long 
months  in  confinement  when  some 
were  plotting  to  pull  "big  jobs"  when 
they  got  out,  it  was  the  pictures  we 
were  allowed  to  see  at  intervals  that 
kept  my  mind  away  from  thoughts  of 
revenge  and  of  tempting  offers  made 
by  fellow  prisoners. 

Those  who  say  that  motion  pictures 
are  not  up-lifting  don't  know  as  I  do. 
They  have  been  a  means  of  giving 
me  new  hope  and  courage  and  have 
set  my  feet  in  the  straight  path. 

R.  S.,  Graft,  Colo. 


You  feel  at  ease 

for  Kotex  is  shaped  to  fit 


Then,  too,  Kotex  absorbs 

scientifically,  giving  more 

secure  protection. 

WHEN  you  realize  how  individual 
a  problem  sanitary  protection  is, 
you  appreciate  the  fact  that  Kotex  is  so 
made  that  you  can  adjust  it  to  your 
changing  needs. 

That,  of  course,  is  only  one  of  the  ad- 
vantages of  Kotex.  It  is  shaped  to  fit  in- 
conspicuously under  any  frock,  no  matter 
how  close-fitting.  It  is  treated  to  deodor- 
ize— keeps  one  feeling  dainty  at  rimes 
when  that  is  more  than  ever  necessary. 
It  is  soft  —  not  only  at  first,  but  during 
hours  of  use. 

W by  Kotex  stays  soft 
Kotex  filler — Cellucotton  (not  cotton)  ab- 
sorbent wadding — takes  up  five  times  its 
weight  in  moisture — is  so  amazingly  effi- 
cient that  85%  of  our  great  hospitals  now 
use  it  for  all  kinds  of  surgical  dressings. 
Kotex  owes  its  unique  dependability 
and  comfort  to  the  fact  that  it  absorbs 
laterally,  leaving  the  pad  soft  and  deli- 
;  cate  despite  its  amazing  efficiency.  leaving 
the  sides  unpenetr.ued.  which  prevents 
chafing  and  irritation. 


Kotex  can  be  worn  on  either  side.  It 
will  serve  uith  ecjti.il  efficiency,  with  no 
possibility  of  embarrassment.  Adjust  it 
(you  can,  you  see,  because  of  the  layer. 
construction)  to  meet  changing  require- 
ments. Dispose  of  it  quickly,  easily.  Buy 
it  anywhere.    Simply  specify  Kotex. 

Kotex  Company,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

IN  HOSPITALS  .  .  . 

|    1      The  Kotex  absorbent  is  the  identical     I 
|  material  used  bv  surgeons  in  8s%  of  the     | 

country's  leading  hospitals. 

|  2  Kotex  is  soft  .  .  .  Not  mctelr  an  appar-  1 
cnt  softness,  that  soon  panics  into  chafing  I 
hardness.     But  a  deluatc,  lasting  softness.    | 

|   3     Can  be  uorn  on  either  side  with  equal 
comfort.  No  embarrassment. 

1  4    Disposable,  instantly,  completely. 


I 


Regular  Kotex— 4V  for  12 
Kotex  Super-Size— 65c  for  12 


Brine*  new  ideal*  of  sanitary  comfort!  Woven 
Co  fit  b-v  un  entirely  new  patented  procett. 
Firm  yet  light;    will  not   curl;    perfect' fitting. 

(U.S.  Patent  No.  1770741) 

KOT6X 


n6 


Photoplay  Macazine  for  May,  1931 


Keeps  teeth  while 


SMILE  and  conquer.  No 
one  can  resist  a  charm* 
ing  smile. 

But  remember  —  your 
smile  is  only  as  charming  as 
the  snowy  whiteness  of  your 
teeth  permits. 

Every  day  chew  delicious 
Dent}  ne — the  gum  especially 
made  to  keep  teeth  white.  It 
also  helps  to  keep  gums  firm 
because  its  extra  chewy  qual- 
ity gives  them  extra  healthful 
exercise.  Dentyne  is  the  finest 
chewing  gum  on  sale  today. 


°T)ENTYNE 

J J . .  and  smile! 


WM.  DAVIS,  M,  D„ 


Wales 

How  to  baniah  them 
A  simple,  safe  home  treat- 
ment— 16  years'  success  in  ny 
practice.  Moles  (also  Big 
Growths)  dry  up  and  drop 
off.  Write  for  free  Booklet. 
124-D  Grove  Ave,  Woodbridge,  N.  J. 


OR  CHILD    NURSING 


LEARNED  AT  HOME 


N   12   WEEKS 

weekly   enrme   (or 


■•curs    positions. 

MISS     C.    TULL.    6206    Winthrop.      Chlcaco, 


Hi^h  School  Course 
in  2  Years 


You  can  complete 

this  simplified    II  i  e  h 
School  Course  at  home 

inside  of  two  v«ara.  Meets  all  requirement,  for  entrance  to  collece 
and  the  leadinc  professions.  Thi>  and  thirty-wx  other  practical 
courses  are  described  in  our    Free    Bulletin.     Send    for   it    TODAY. 

AMERICAN    SCHOOL 

Oept.  H-S»3.  Orexel  Ave.  »  58th  St.        (R  AS  1923        CHICAGO 


Will  pay 
Fifty  Dol- 
lars   for 


OldMoney  Wanted 

nickel  of  1913  with  Liberty  head   (no  Buffalo).   We  pay 
cash  premiums  for  all  rare  coins.      Send  4c  for  Large 
Coin  Folder.    May  mean  much  profit  to  you. 
NUMISMATIC  CO.,  Dept.  75,       Ft.  Worth, Tex. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

■  Dept.  5-P,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

■  Gentlemen:   I  enclose  herewith  S2.r.O  [Canada  $3.00. 
•     Foreign    S3. 50]    for    which    kindly    enter   my   sub- 
!    8crlption  for  Photoplay   Magazine,  for  one  year, 

■  effective  with  next  Issue. 

Subscribe  for 
PHOTOPLAY 

RATES 

Yearly  Sibscription:  S2.50  in  the  United 
si:  tee,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and  Cuba; 
$3.(X)  Canada;  $3.50  to  foreign  countries.    Re- 
mittances should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal 
or  express  money  order. 

NOTICE! 

Da    not    subscribe    for    Photoplay    MAOAZDTB 
through  unknown  persons.  Verify  the  credentials 

of  all  solicitors.  If  in  doubt  give  your  subscript  Ion 
to  your  newsdealer  or  use  the  coupon  and  send  it 

. 

Do  You  Want  a 
Job  in  the  Studios? 


rnxuED  FROM  PAGE  70 1 

we  must  remember  it  was  the  left  hand.  When 
it  comes  to  learning  the  picture  business  there 
isn't  a  better  method." 

Catherine  received  S40  as  a  secretary  and 
she  receives  the  same  as  a  script  girl  except  on 
shorts  where  she  assists  the  director — even  di- 
rects during  his  absence. 

Then  she  gets  $75.  Incidentally,  she  has  sold 
several  magazine  stories  on  her  experiences  as 
a  script  girl  and  has  recently  assisted  Bryan 
Foy  in  writing  shorts.  Her  ambition  is 
scenario  writing. 

Dorothy  Cairns  was  a  script  girl  at  Para- 
mount until  she  sold  "Sin  Takes  a  Holiday" 
to  Pathe.  She  has  been  offered  several  writing 
contracts  but  prefers  to  freelance,  in  the  hope 
of  selling  enough  originals  so  that  she  will  not 
have  to  tie  herself  down  to  one  department. 

Anne  Bauchens  has  been  cutting  film  for 
fourteen  years.  She  has  cut  every  Cecil  De 
Mille  picture  for  twelve.  "I  had  hoped  to 
write  but  I  found  I  couldn't  create  originals. 
But  I  could  take  the  work  of  somebody  else 
and  create  with  it.  Which  is  the  work  of 
cutting.  A  good  director  doesn't  tell  a  good 
cutter  what  to  do.  He  takes  his  shots  and 
lets  her  or  him  make  a  picture  from  it.  You 
are  creating  the  finished  story  from  the  other 
fellow's  ideas  but  you  are  still  creating." 

Cutters  receive  from  $75  to  $200  a  week. 
Miss  Bauchens  gets  S135. 

This  work  is  hard  on  the  eyes,  as  they  are 
reading  film  continually.  Matching  the  sound 
tract  to  the  photographic  film  has  more  than 
doubled  their  work. 

They  have  small  rooms  with  a  sound  repro- 
ducing apparatus.  I  have  spent  hours  watch- 
ing them  work. 

They  must  not  only  be  creative  but  they 
must  be  mechanically  inclined  and  extremely 
accurate. 

Peggy  O'Day  was  Miss  Bauchens'  assistant. 
Today  she  is  cutting  foreign  versions  only  for 
Metro.  She  cannot  speak  a  word  of  Spanish, 
and  yet  she  cut  the  Spanish  version  of  "The 
Big  House."  She  has  learned  to  understand 
Spanish  by  listening  to  her  sound  tract  and 
matching  the  words  to  the  action  of  her  picture. 
She  started  at  S6  a  week  cleaning  negative, 
and  was  formerly  an  ingenue  with  her  name 
in  the  casting  directory! 

Miss  Bauchens'  advice  to  young  folk  wish- 
ing to  become  cutters  is  to  begin  with  stenog- 
raphy, go  into  script  work,  learn  the  way  pic- 
tures are  made,  and  then  go  into  cutting  as  an 
assistant.  Incidentally,  I  talked  with  a  dozen 
cutters  and  didn't  find  a  discontented  one 
among  them.  Or  a  lazy  one!  You  never  get 
to  be  a  cutter  if  you  are  lazy.  During  the 
making  of  a  picture  the  hours  are  often  eighteen 
at  a  stretch. 

HARRY  ALBIKZ  is  a  "property  boy,"  al- 
though he  is  a  middle  aged  man.  Six  years 
ago  he  was  standing  leaning  on  a  shovel  in  his 
alfalfa  patch  at  Van  Nuys,  California.  He  had 
the  urge  to  travel,  but  not  the  money.  How 
could  he  get  excitement,  variety?  The  movies 
were  ten  miles  away.  He  dropped  his  shovel 
and  went  to  the  old  Selig  lot.  "I  hit  it  lucky. 
I  asked  for  a  job  and  got  it.  By  working  fast 
and  not  sitting  down  and  paying  no  attention 
to  hours,  I  held  it.  Haven't  been  out  of  work 
since.  I  saw  everyone  was  trying  to  duck 
Westerns.  They  had  longer  hours,  more  work 
and  no  more  pay.  I  hit  for  them.  I  had 
wanted  travel,  I  did.  Went  up  into  the  Indian 
lands  with  Tim  McCoy.  Back  a  month  and 
then  left  for  the  South  Seas  with  'White 
Shadows  of  the  South  Seas.'  Also  went  there 
on  'The  Pagan.'  Been  down  through  Mexico 
with  a  jungle  picture.  Spent  a  whole  year  in 
Africa  with  'Trader  Horn. '      A  property  boy 


OP]  w    M  v   \/im     i  "K    M  \"> 


I  17 


does  mo  1  everythla  iy,  but  on  I 

location  tripe  you  do  everything  from  ward 
robe   i"     eeing   that   there's  plenty  «>f   wild 

aium.iU  -.(u  km::  about. 

'JOHN  FORD   ■  irted  as  a  i>r« »(>  boy     So  did 
J  Johnny  Waten    He  directs  Don  and  ■< 
too     They've  made  three  assistant  directors 
from  pro|>  boys  on  this  l"i    M  G  M    in  the 

l.i,l    three    months       \  011    learn   aboul    I 

thing  there  is  to  know  if  you  keep  you: 

open   " 

Harry  started  al  S-,:;  .1  week.    He 
$<*)  today     He  says  the  way  to  get  started  b 

a^k  fol  .1  job,  keep  on  asking  tor  it  until 
tiny  know  you  mean  business,  work  like  the 
devil  anil  join  the  union. 

Studio  drivers  and  gatemea  arc  usually  men 
past  fifty. 

it's  the  opportunity  for  old  ago.  "Pop" 
atanatt  has  driven  stars  at  Metro  Tor  thirteen 

"The  only  difference  between  the  days  when 

I  drove  Ueraldmc  I'arrarand  1'. inline  Frederick 

and  today,  when  it's  Norma  Shearer  and  Joan 

lord,  a  they  don't  have  as  many  location 

trips  since  the  talkies.    Driving  ain't  no  place 

lor  a  young  man.  No  future.  It's  line  for  an 
old  man.  Keeps  life  interesting.  The  stars 
are  awful  good  to  us.  For  five  years  Ramon 
ome  out  on  the  day  before 
Christmas  with  a  $10  gold  pie 

The  drivers  furnish  their  own  cars  and  pay 
the  upkeep.  They  are  paid  by  either  the 
hour  or  mileage. 

••  I'.  •;  9  about  $4,000  a  year  and  nets 

approximately  $-'..^00. 

Frank  Tuttk  (not  the  director)  has  been 
gateman  at   United  Artists  for  eight  > 
When  Douglas  Fairbanks  discovered  he  had 

been  a  champion  bicycle  rider  in  his  youth,  he 
took  a  personal  interest  in  him  as  Doug  does 
in  all  athletes,  and  presented  him  with  a 
pedigreed  dog.  The  white-haired  man  and 
huge  dog  became  landmarks  on  the  lot.  Last 
week  the  dog  died  of  old  age.  The  man  is 
unconsolable.  He  makes  $.0  a  week  and  his 
best  story  is  an  imitation  of  the  way  (iloria 
Swanson  comes  to  the  gate  on  Christmas  day 
and  says.  "Will  you  accept  this  with  a  Merry 
Christmas?"  This  is  a  $5  gold  piece  in  pretty- 
wrappings. 

IF  you  are  a  beauty  operator  or  interested 
in  becoming  one.  your  future  in  pictures  lies 
in  the  Make-l'p  Department.  The  scientific 
make-up  of  today  is  only  live  years  old,  but 
it  has  become  one  of  the  most  important  parts 
of  the  industry' • 

Radio  Pictures  recently  built  a  $120,000 
building  to  hold  their  department  and  placed 
Eme  Westmore  in  charge  of  it.  He  personally 
supervises  the  make-up  of  each  person  playing 
in  a  Radio  picture.  On  the  first  tloor,  his 
•.mts  make-up  the  stars;  on  the  second 
the  principals;  on  the  third  the  ponies  and 
show  girls;  on  the  fourth  the  extras.  The 
make-up  for  "Cimarron"  cost  $2.?. 896,  of 
which  $20,640  was  paid  for  salaries  of  the 
people  applying  it. 

Make-up  men  are  unionized  and  the  min- 
imum wage  is  $100  weekly;  by  the  day.  $15. 
The  heads  of  departments  receive  $500  and 
I  weekly. 

Erne  Westmore  and  his  brothers  and  father 
— all  in  motion  picture  work — have  been  in 
the  beauty  business  all  their  lives.  "We  are 
in  constant  need  of  really  good  men  and 
women;  those  who  understand  bone  con- 
struction, high  lighting,  and  so  on.  I  have 
personally  induced  several  to  come  from  the 
Fast.  But  the  average  beauty  operator  is 
not  skilled  enough  for  studio  work.'' 

Hairdressers  also  come  under  this  depart- 
ment. They  receive  from  $50  to  $75  a  week 
depending  upon  their  expertness. 

Frequently,  they  become  so  efficient  in  work- 
ing on  one  star  that  they  are  attached  to  her 
statT. 

Ruth  Chatterton,  for  example,  has  her  own 
hairdresser. 

Numerous   stars   have   private   secretaries. 


DOROTHY 
GRAY 


LIKE  A  TOWER 

OF  IVORY...  AN  U NUN  ED 

YOUTH  FLU  THROAT 

Your  throat  can  he  as  [lawless  and  beautiful  as 
a  slim  ivory  tower.  How  wickedly  careless  it  is 
to  let  a  crepe-like  texture  give  your  throat  cruel. 
aging  lines!  It  is  a  simple  matter  to  keep  your 
throat  flawlessly  smooth.  1  he  Dorothy  C»ray 
treatments  lor  preventing  ciepv  throat  and  cor- 
recting it  have  lor  many  yean  proved  their  suc- 
cess in  the  Dorothy  C-»ray  salons.  00  that  sou  may 
readily  give  yourself  these  treatments  at  home, 
Dorothy  Lrray  preparations  are  sola  at  leading 
shops  everywhere.  Ask  or  write  for  the  booklet, 
lour  Dowry  of  iJeauty.  It  t»ives  vou  clear 
directions  for  all  the  Dorothy  Gray  home  treat- 
ments. ©D.G.  I9J1 

685  FIFTH  AVENUE,  NEW  YORK 

Pari*.  Chicago.  Loj  Aitjclcs.  Sjii   F ranciivO, Wnjlunarton.  Atlantic  Citv 


n8 


ISOTtira*!! 


Have  Curling  Lashes  Instantly 

with  KURLASH 

ANYBODY  can  do  it.  No  heat, 
no  cosmetics!  Just  si  ip  the  rub- 
ber Kurlash  pads  over  your  lashes 
and  press  gently.  At  once  you  have 
curling  lashes,  sparkling  eyes,  more 
charm,  greater  personality.  No 
wonder  Hollywood  make-up  artists 
use  Kurlash  on  movie  stars!  Curl 
your  own  lashes  today.  At  toilet 
counters  everywhere,  $1.00. 

Kurlene 
for  growing  long  lashes 

This  European  discovery  promotes 
growth  of  long  lashes.  Keeps  them 
brilliant  and  free  from  granulation. 
Tubes  50c;  jars  $1.00. 

Shadette 
intensifies  eye  color 

Just  a  touch  of  Shadette  on  upper 
lid  makes  your  eyes'  natural  color 
richer,  deeper.  Improves  appear- 
ance remarkably.  Four  colors.  Com- 
pacts, $1.00.  Sold  everywhere. 

Lashpac— Compact  with  brush 

and  stick  mascara. 
Lashtint — perfumed,  waterproof 

liquid  mascara. 
Tweezette — automatic,  painless 
tweezer.  Each  $1.00. 

Write  for  booklet  "Fascinating  £yes  and  Mow 
To  Have  Them."  Tieauty  secrets  told  in  pic* 
lures.  &A at  led  free. 


THE  KURLASH  COITlPflnU 

77  SOUTH  AVE.   -    ROCHESTER  -  N.Y. 


"NO 

GRAY 
HAIR" 

Don't  endure  the  unfair- 
ness of   age-telling  gray, 
fachd,   or   streaked    hair. 
Tint   it    instantly    to   its 
natural    youthful     shade 
and  lustre  —  any  desired 
<ok>r  from  lightest  blond 
to  mHnight  black.     Just 
*  omb  thru  clean,  1. armless. 
o<!orl<  ss     Brownatone.     No 
fuss,   no   muss.     Immediate 
guaranteed  results.    All  deal- 
i  rs.  50c.     Of  sen!  lOeior  trial  bcllle. 
KENTON  PHARMACAL  CO. 

Brownatone   Bldg.,  Covington,   Ky 

Hi.in   Address,   Windsor,   Ontario 

ROWNATONE 

TINTS  GRAY  HAIR  ANY  SHADE 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 

Joan  Crawford  ami  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr. 
have  a  man,  but  .Mary  Pickford,  Constance 
Bennett.  Ann  Harding,  Ruth  Chatterton,  Sue 
Carol  and  many  others  have  women.  They 
receive  from  $50  to  $75  a  week. 

Hazel  Gray,  working  for  Ruth  Chatterton 
unci  Ralph  Fori  "Being  a  secretary 

to  a  star  is  not  comparable  to  other  secretarial 
work.  Our  duties  are  more  intimate,  more 
varied  and  more  exciting.  We  not  only  handle 
the  fan  mail,  the  private  correspondence  and 
appointments  but  we  do  anything  in  the  world 
which  arises  to  make  their  fives  easier.  In  my 
case,  I  run  Mi-s  ( 'hatterton's  home,  hire  the 
servants,  purchase  the  food,  sign  the  checks, 
deposit  the  money  and  save  it.  I  usually 
have  luncheon  with  Miss  Chatterton  at  the 
studio  but  I  never  sit  on  the  sets. " 

T  AST  Christmas  Miss  Gray  purchased  most 
-'-'of  the  presents  her  employers  gave;  as  both 
were  working. 

She  frequently  buys  Miss  Chatterton's 
clothes.  She  secured  her  position  through  a 
mutual  friend  who  could  vouch  for  her  trust- 
worthiness. 

She  believes  there  is  opportunity  for  reliable 
girls. 

One  of  the  most  important  divisions  of  any 
studio  is  the  publicity.  It  is  the  diplomatic 
corps  of  the  entire  organization.  It  sells  not 
only  the  stars  but  the  pictures  to  the  public 
and  handles  relations  with  newspapers, 
magazines  and  theaters.  It  also  acts  as  the 
go-between  for  stars  and  every  medium  of 
publicity. 

Contrary  to  popular  opinion,  the  publicity 
departments  do  little  writing  for  other  than 
press-books.  A  press-book  is  a  collection  of 
stories  concerning  one  production,  printed  in 
pamphlet  form,  and  sent  to  the  various 
theater    exhibitors.      A    "unit"    man   in    the 


B 


»& 


Make   money  taking-  pictures.    Photo. 

graphs    in    biK    demand.     Commercial 

I'holoirraphy    also    pays    biK    money. 

Learn  quickly  at  home  in  ..pare  time. 

I  :u-nce  necessary.  Write  today 

e    free  book.    Opporfumri...  in 

n  Photoora  i.*i  v-  American 

Schoolot  Photography.  Dep-.    12S5 

3601  Michigan  Ave..  Chicago. 


publicity  department  remains  on  the  set  of  a 
picture,  gathers  all  the  items  of  interest  and 
writes  the  "press-book"  for  his  picture.  When 
these  stories  reach  the  theater  owners,  they 
clip  and  distribute  them  to  the  local  news- 
papers  as  information  for  local  write-ups 
(usually  advance)  about  the  picture. 

These  unit  men  receive  from  S60  to  SI 50  a 
week.  They  are  usually  trained  newspaper  re- 
porters. 

■"PI IK  publicity  department  does  not  write 
■*■  magazine  stories,  and  very  few  newspaper 
yarns  aside  from  the  press-book.  They  con- 
ta<  t  the  tegular  writers. 

For  example,  Photoplav  has  a  large  staff  of 
trained  writers.  It  is  the  duty  of  the  publicity 
department  to  furnish  them  with  any  informa- 
tion they  have  about  their  players  but,  prin- 
cipally, to  act  as  a  go-between  for  the  writer 
and  the  player. 

Take  this  story  for  example. 

The  publicity  department  did  not  give  me 
the  information. 

They  arranged  interviews  and  I  talked  to 
each  person  mentioned,  in  person. 

The  salaries  for  the  heads  of  departments 
run  from  $25,000  a  year  downward. 

John  Le  Roy  Johnston,  head  of  the  depart- 
ment at  Universal,  has  been  in  the  newspaper 
and  publicity  business  since  he  was  thirteen. 
He  started  on  the  St.  Paul  Daily  News  and 
sketched  more  than  300  famous  faces  in  his 
first  year  besides  handling  the  presswork  for 
the  Hudson  Boxing  Club  and  the  St.  Paul 
Symphony  orchestra. 

His  record  reads  like  a  list  of  newspapers 
from  Coast  to  Coast  and  all  of  the  studios  in 
existence. 

"I  decided  at  thirteen  that  it  was  a  great 
game  because  it  brought  one  in  contact  with 
the  most  famous,  and  I  wanted  to  know  the 


Joan  Crawford's  new  studio  home  on  wheels — the  portable  dressing- 
room  just  given  her  by  the  doting  husband,  Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr.  White, 
with  green  shutters,  it  contains  rich  antique  furnishings — and  an  electric 
refrigerator,  hot  and  cold  water  and  what-not.  Joan  seems  mighty 
proud,  but  the  Scotty  doesn't  seem  to  be  impressed 


PHOTOP]  \n    M  m.\/im     i  "k    M  \v,    1"  ^1 


19 


■MKl  men  ami   women.      You   learn   to  know 

life  and  people;  you  become  analytical  and 

philosophical.  S'ou  must  have  the  tacl 
butler,  tin-  soul  of  a  dreamer,  the  fronl  i 
executive,  the  m  desman.     You  musl 

be  able  to  create  illusions  about  everything 
and  everybody.     And  you  must  take  the  ra|> 
for  the  entire  studio,  always.      You  work 
hour   and   all    hours,   and   you    love    it   or   you 
can't  stay  in  it." 

rT'HERE  are  many  successful  women  in 
I  A  line.    Much  studio  has  a  woman  in  charge  of 
magazine  contacts,  for  example       I  wo  •. 
ago    Eleanor    I'acker    arrived    in    Hollywood 
from    Columbus,    Ohio.       Iler    father    m 
newspaper    man,    her    college    degree    was    in 

ilism.     She  knew  nothing  of  studio 
she  took  the  telephone  Ixmk.  called  them  all 
and  asked  for  the  names  of  the  head  of  eai  h 
publicity  department.     Then  she  called  tin  -e 
men  and  secured  an  appointment  with  Arthur 
Winer  at  United  Artists.     She  was  put  onto 
the   Douglas   Fairbanks  unit  writing  a  press 
book.   Today  she  has  charged  magazine  con- 
it  Metro  and  receives  Sl.>5  a  week  for  it 
She  says: 

"I  should  say  newspaper  training  is  the 
most  valuable  for  either  man  or  woman  in 
any  branch  of  motion  pictures  e\i  cpt.  possibly 
acting.  It  teaches  life  and  pictures  deal  with 
life  in  every  angle." 

II  ;h  in  a  corner  office  at  M-G-M  sits 
Natalie  Buckncll,  head  of  the  research  depart- 
ment. Recently,  a  tierman  newspaper  man 
tested  her  knowledge  by  asking  her  fourteen 
questions,  oil  hand.  She  answered  each  one 
without  a  moment's  hesitation.  Two  were  as 
follows : 

"What  type  of  saddle  did  King  Darius  use 
in  ancient  Russia? 

•What  type  of  toy  was  used  in  the  time  of 
Pcrich 

It  is  her  business  to  see  that  every  prop, 
costume,  quotation,  etc.,  is  technically  correct 
on  each  production. 

She  has  been  there  four  years  and  has  col- 
lected 50  tiles  of  newspaper  clippings  which  are 
valued  at  $5<X),000. 

She  started  in  the  reading  department  but 
was  transferred  to  her  present  position  in  two 
weeks.  Why? — Her  father  was  councilor  of 
state  under  the  Czar.  She  was  educated  by 
four  governesses — French.  English,  German 
and  Russian.  She  speaks  and  reads  live 
languages.  She  has  traveled  throughout  the 
world. 

She  knows  history.  She  receives  less  than 
$100  a  week.    Her  ambition  is  to  direct. 

She  is  in  a  spot  where  she  can  leam  cvery- 
thinj;  there  is  to  know  about  directing.  When 
sound  came  in  she  studied,  and  was  the  first 
woman  to  secure  a  certificate  as  a  sound 
engineer. 

She  never  heard  of  regular  hours;  I  doubt  if 
she  ever  wants  to  hear  of  them.  She  believes 
any  really  trained  person  can  find  an  oppor- 
tunity in  pictures. 

"X/f°TnER"  Coultcr  is  thc  w-iy  her  name  is 
"•■■listed  in  the  M-G-M  studio  directory.  She- 
has  charge  of  the  wardrobe  department  where 
period  clothes  and  costumes  are  made.  She 
is  sixtytive  years  of  age  and  has  been  in  the 
wardrobe  work  of  theater  and  screen  for  forty 
years.  Originally  an  actress,  she  realized  she 
wouldn't  make  a  successful  one,  and  turned 
her  handiness  with  the  needle  to  advantage. 

She  has  been  in  her  present  position  twelve 
years,  receives  SI 25  a  week.  She  starts  her 
seamstresses  at  S22.50  a  week,  pays  her  head 
cutter  $60,  and  has  forty  women  working 
when  the  studio  is  in  full  swing.  She  prefers 
women  who  have  not  been  in  dressmaking 
shops  but  have  learned  to  use  the  needle  and 
scissors  in  the  home! 

One  of  the  greatest  opportunities  for  men 
lies  in  the  camera  department.  A  boy  starts, 
usually,  in  the  laboratory  although  many 
studios  give  their  messenger  boys,  prop  boys, 
etc.,  opportunities  to  learn  the  camera  busi 

In  the  laboratory  he  learns  cleaning  of  film, 


Absorbent . . . 


to  remove  dangerous  dirt" 

That's  why  Jean  Harlow  insists  on 
Kleenex   to  remove  cold  cream 


She  made  one  of  the  most 
rapid  climbs  to  stardom  in  all 
Hollytvood's  amazing  history! 
Read  her  beauty  adder  to  you. 

JEAN  HARLOW,  like  other  great  beau- 
ties, stresses  the  supreme  importance  of 
cleanliness. 

"Whenever  I  see  Kleenex  on  a  woman's 
dressing  table,  I  know  she  understands 
beauty  care.Women  who  know  notbing  "I 
the  scientific  side  of  beauty  often  under* 
emphasize  the  importance  of  strict  eleanli- 

lie-s. 

"They  are  still  using  unhygienic  methods 
of  removing  cleansing  cream  ami  make-up 
.  .  .  methods  which  leave  almost  as  many 
impurities  in  the  skin  as  before. 

"Too  bad  everyone  doesn't  understand 
about  Kleenex!"  Miss  Harlow  continues. 


"These  wonderful  tissues  are  so  sanitary  in 
themselves,  and  so  ab-orbent  to  remove  dan- 
gerous dirt!" 

Tmcelx  unnhsnrbent 
"So  absorbent  to  remove  dangerous  dirt!" 
The  dirt  that  lurks  deep  in  pores.  The  dirt 
in  which  acne  thrives.  The  dirt  which  h.ir-h 
cloths,  unabsorbent  towels,often  slide  rigbl 
over. 

This  is  the  din  Mi--  Harlow  refers  to.  It's 

the  dirt  Kleenex  ab-orl quickly.  Kleenex 

blots  up  cleansing  cream,  and  every  particle 
of  crime  comes,  too.  Even,  invisible  fleck  of 
powder.  Kleenex  is  so  powerfully  absorbent 
that  rubbing  i-  unnecessary. 

For  handkerchiefs 
Kleenex    is    rapidly    supplanting    handker- 
chiefs for  use  during  colds.  It  prevents  self- 
infection   from    germ-filled    handkerchiefs. 
You  use  Kleenex  just  once,  then  discard  it. 

Kleenex  comes  in  packages  at  25c, 50c  and 
$1.  Prices  arc  the  same  in  Canada.  At  drug, 
dry  goods  and  department  stores. 
•> <• 

kirFVEX  COMPANY.  ™-s 

Lake  Michigan  Building,  Chicago.  111. 
Pleaae  send  a  free  supply  of  Kleenex- 


Ac!/] 


Street 


fPlaaae  print  ume  plainly' 


I  «e  Kleenex  for  adjusting  make-up  as  tcell  as  for  re- 
mo\inst  creams  and  cosmetics.  This  dainty  dressing  room 
accessory  comes  in  your  facorite  pastel  tintastcetias  white. 


City 


In  Canada,  address:  330  Bay  Street,  Toronto,  Ont. 


120 


Spring  Styles  Make 

IJouthforms 


a  Necessity 


JRotmd  Out  Your  Form 
Make  It  Beautiful 

Today's  styles  clearly  define  the  bust.  Style 
artists  have  doomed  the  ill-fitting,  flattening, 
pressing.  tissue-destroying  brassieres,  and 
have  given  women  a  new  charm  and  beauty 
with  the  bust  line.  YOUTHFORMS  are  the  one 
support  that  serves  two  purposes — holding 
your  bust  in  correct  position  and  giving  you 
that  infinite  charm  of  youth. 

YOUTHFORMS  secret  is  in  the  elastic  band 
which  goes  around  the  body,  and  the  beautiful 
first  quality  pink  Van  Raalte's  Swamee  Silk 
forms  which  hold  the  busts  in  shape,  removing 
all  weight  from  them.  Doctors  and  physical 
culture  experts  are  indorsing  YOUTHFORMS 
to  correct  sagging  busts.  Thousands  praise 
YOUTHFORMS  daily  for  they  are  comfortable, 
restful,  enjoyable  to  wear.  Not  sold  in  stores 
because  they  are  made  to  your  individual 
measure.      Order  direct. 

MAIL    COUPON    TODAY       I»-S 

J    Yoitthfohm  Co.,  150  Forsyth  St.,  S.  \\\.  Atlanta,  Cla. 
Enclosed  And   (check,   11   O.  or  cash!   S 

I    for  which  send  me   Youthforms.  size  around 
body  Just  undiT  bust  in.,  sice  around  body 

Iac;oss    center   of    bust    in.      Standard    color 
pink. 

|    Name     


Street 


City    State 

Take  measurements  accurately  next  to  the  skin. 


Her  Blonde  Hair 


won  me! 

ROMANCE  always  comes  to  blondes  who  keep 
.  their  hair  golden.  And  it's  so  easy  with 
Blondex.  This  special  shampoo  notonly  prevents 
darkening — but  safely  restores  natural  golden 
color  to  dull,  faded  light  hair.  Brings  outspark- 
ling  lights— adds  gleaming  radiance.  Not  a  dye. 
No  harmful  chemicals.  Fine  for  scalp.  Used  and 
recommended  by  scores  of  famous  blonde  movie 
stars.  A  tall  leading  drug  and  department  stores. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 

developing,  threading,  general  handling.  First 
assistant  is  the  next  step.  Salary  $50  to  $55. 
Sometimes  overtime  makes  this  a  little  higher, 
but  seldom,  taken  over  a  year's  av<  I 
Second  assistant  is  the  next  climb.  Salary: 
SI (XI.  The  minimum  wage  for  a  real  camera- 
man is  S50  a  day.  Expert  cameramen,  such 
as  Charley  Kosher,  formerly  with  Mary  Pick- 
ford  (for  years  Mary  would  allow  no  one  else 
to  photograph  her)  and  Clyde  De  Yinna,  who 
did  "Trader  Horn,"  receive  an  average  of 
S800  a  week.  Many  cameramen  receive  as 
high  as  S500  regularly.  These  men  are  on  a 
contract  basis  the  same  as  stars  and  get  no 
overtime.  Men  at  $50  a  day  may  average 
more  from  overtime  arrangements. 

"Still"  cameramen  are  those  who  take 
publicity  pictures.  Like  Bill  Grimes  at  M-G-M, 
they  are  usually  recruited  from  newspapers 
or  news-reel  "still"  camera  forces.  They  must 
know  news  value  in  pictures.  They  average 
SX5  a  week.  They  often  go  into  the  regular 
camera  division. 


PORTRAIT  artists  such  as  Elmer  Fryer  at 
*-  First  National  and  George  Hurrell  at  M-G-M 
and  Otto  Dyar  at  Paramount  receive  from  SI  50 
to  S200.  They  must  be  artists,  and  are  usually 
trained  in  photographic  work  before  they  come 
to  the  movies. 

There  is  little  advancement  for  electricians. 
An  electrician  is  an  electrician.  They  average 
S50  a  week.  Carpenters  average  S51  weekly; 
assistant  directors  S65  to  $85,  and  for  experts 
who  are  almost  directors  as  high  as  $250. 
Grips  average  $45.  Stenographers  begin  at 
S22.50  and  reach  salaries  of  S125  weekly  when 
they  become  private  secretaries  to  executives, 
where  they  are  practically  executives  them- 
selves with  private  secretaries  of  their  own. 

The  list  is  endless;  the  opportunities  like- 
wise. It  is  strange  but  those  at  the  top  seem 
to  be  the  least  contented  and  warn  the  out- 
sider not  to  try  the  movies,  while  those  who 
are  still  climbing  and  are  in  lesser  positions 
adore  their  work  and  say,  "Come  on  in,  the 
swimmin's  line. " 

But  one  and  all,  they  say:  "Hard  work  is 
the  secret.  The  movies  are  no  place  for  a 
lazy  person!" 


Clothes  Habits  of 
Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  73  ] 


evening  creation.  Cut  beneath  the  arm  on  one 
side  and  draped  to  the  opposite  shoulder.  Split 
skirt.  Xot  according  to  any  Hoyle-of-style  but 
especially  appropriate  for  showing  the  Comp- 
ton  back,  supposed  to  be  one  of  the  finest  A 
few  nights  later  she  appeared  at  a  formal  din- 
ner in  a  gown  of  the  same  design,  of  different 
material.  I  understand  she  is  having  others 
created  from  the  same,  self-designed  pattern. 

Of  course,  the  Garbo  beret  became  famous. 
Only  now  she  features  a  big  vagabond  felt,  on 
the  same  lines  as  Joan  Crawford's,  only  much 
larger.  Oh,  yes,  the  camel's-hair  coat  and  big, 
flat  shoes  still  go  with  it  and  she  still  sticks  her 
hands  deep  into  her  pockets  while  walking. 

Phillips  Holmes  joined  the  Hollywood  non- 
hat  fraternity  soon  after  his  arrival. 

WILLIAM  POWELL  vies  with  Clive  Brook 
for  male  sartorial  honors.  Only.  Bill  wears 
ha  ts.butisstubbornabout  shirt  colors.  He  wears 
only  white,  while  Clive  goes  in  for  blues  and 
light  colors.  "And  I  never  wear  brown.  N< 
Bill  makes  this  very  emphatic.  He  doesn't  be- 
lieve that  brown  high-lights  his  complexion  cor- 
rectly.  Plain  ties — I  mean  solid  colors.  Never 
a  design  or  a  dot  in  them.  His  suits  are  also 
pressed  after  each  wearing. 

Of  course, director  Raoul  Walsh  is  our  color- 
less person.  A  loosely  knit  scarf  for  day- 
times and  a  collar  on!;.  .'  in  the  evening. 


Only  a 
handkerchief 

T3UT  it  was  no  joking  matter 
■*-J  to  the  bride.  Someone  had 
stepped  on  her  "going  away" 
handkerchief.  The  rare  little  bit 
of  handed-down  lace  was  crum- 
pled and  soiled.  And  it  had  to 
be  washed  with  infinite  care. 
Could  we?  We  could  and  did. 

We  rather  pride  ourselves  on  our 
ability  to  take  care  of  our  guests. 
You'll  find  it  reflected  in  rooms 
that  have  closets  big  enough  to 
hold  all  your  clothes— in  every  ap- 
pointment which  a  hotel  worthy 
of  the  name  provides.  But  what 
you'll  be  sure  to  notice  is  a  spirit 
of  extra  service,  in  all  the  little 
things  which  United  Hotel  em- 
ployees are  taught  to  take  the 
time  to  do  well! 

Extra  service  at  these  2$ 
UNITED  HOTELS 

new  YORK  city's  only  UnittJ The  Roosevelt 

PHILADELPHIA,  PA The  Benjamin  Franklin 

Seattle,  vr ash The  Olympic 

Worcester,  mass The  Bancroft 

NEWARK,  N.J The  Robert  Treat 

PATERSON.  n.  J The  Alexander  Hamilton 

trenton,  N.  j The  Stacy-Trent 

Harrisburg,  pa The  Penn-Hams 

Albany,  n.  Y The  Ten  Eyck 

SYRACUSE,  N.  Y The  Onondaga 

Rochester,  N.  Y The  Seneca 

Niagara  falls,  n.  Y The  Niagara 

ERIE,  pa The  Lawrence 

akron,  ohio The  Portage 

FLINT,  MICH The  Durant 

Kansas  city,  mo The  President 

TUCSON,  ARIZ El  Conquistador 

SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL The  St.  Francis 

shreveport,  la The  Washington-Youree 

NEW  Orleans,  la The  Roosevelt 

NEW  ORLEANS,  LA The  Bienville 

TORONTO,  ONT The  King  Edward 

NIAGARA  FALLS,  ONT The  Clifton 

Windsor,  ont The  Prince  Edward 

Kingston,  Jamaica, B.w.i.. The  Constant  Spring 

-H0D 


Photoplm  Magaxini    roa  May.  i     1 


I  2  I 


Mi  I  ro  < ...  1 1 1  \s  \  ii  Mayer  have  almost  no- 
( ceded  in  persuading  Hnl>  Montgomery  i"  leave 
»  at  borne  and  to  wear  ■  i  •  >l Lt r 
even  for  daytime  apparel  Dm  even  once  in 
a  while  Bob  acoota  .iron  in  I  town  in  bis  own  fa 
vorite  fashion  No  collar;  no  tie;  th<  ami  old 
yellow  Karl  dangling  jauntil)  undei  bi 

l  in-  |itiMniiv  department  plead  with 
lini>  mil-  day  in  my  hearing,  "  Now .  please  Bob, 
tin -.  interview  is  important  Do  put  on  .1  collar 
ami  tie  and  leave  that  Mart  at  bomi 

YOU'D  have  to  pup  into  Eatelle   [aylor1! 
Iiouiloii  •  get  her  i< 1 1« >^\  ncras)    l ; 

Icevcd  nightgowns  She's  never  worn  a 
>ii«>rt  sleeved  one  in  her  life.  Winn  some  one 
lu-r  a  beautiful  nightie  sin-  buys  material 
to  mail  h  and  has  hei  dre  ismaker  put  in  sli 
\\  In  I  itelle  was  raised  by  Quaker  yrutulpar- 
I  lu-v  taught  lu-r  to  wear  long  sleeves  at 
night  and  she's  never  gotten  away  from  the 
habit. 

Charlie  Bickford  wean  braided  leather  san- 
dal type  shoes  or  sneakers.    \  ou  will  ne\  er  linil 

liim   in   a   pair  .'t    normal   slinis.      A   inattiT  Of 

comfort,  In'  tells  us. 

Ailnlpln-  Menjou,  another  member  <>f  our 
"best  dressed"  society,  has  every  slim-  made  in 
ItaU  He  of  ten  innovates  fashions.  Right  now 
In- 1» lasts  a  pair  ni'  evening  patent  leathers  with- 
out laces.     "Slip-ins,"  I  suppose  you'd  i.ill 

them. 

Genevieve  Tobin,  one  of  Universal's  femi- 
nine hopes,  spends  all  hex  spare  pennies  on 

slim-s.    i  met  Iut  on  the  lot  the  other  day  in  a 


Juliette  Compton  gives  you  a  glimpse 
of  the  belted  coat  that  is  taking 
precedence  over  the  straight-line 
wrap.  She'll  wear"  it  in  "Kick  In," 
the  new  Clara  Bow  picture.  The 
coat's  of  white  flannel 


All    I  lie  «iiils   to   skin   perfection 


riMiuiiu'tl  in  this 


LJlS auuicea  ^Ajtwm 


IF  I'd  \l  \\  i-  <>nlv  -kin  deep — as 
thry  sav — how  very  important  to 
keep  the  skin  well-groomed  and  look- 
ins  its  freshest!  A  facial  a  daj  is  the 
rule  for  all  whose  aim  is  a  lovely 
complexion.  And  it's  easilv  accom- 
plished— in  the  shortest  space  of  time 
— with  this  simple  balanced  cream. 

Daggetl  &  RamsdelTs  Perfect  Cold 
Cream  contains  all  the  aids  to  skin 
perfection.  It  cleanses,  -months,  beau- 
tifies. The  pure  ingredients  arc  -ii 
carefully  Belected,  so  accurately  bal- 
anced in  blending,  that  an  all-purpose 
cream  is  the  re>ult.  It  your  dressing 
tahle  has  heretofore  held  a  host  01 
beauty  potions,  you'll  find  it  more 
economical,  convenient  and  doubtless 
more  fruitful  in  the  end  to"  let  this 
one,  complete  cream  replace  them  all. 

Hi  re  is  a  famous  treatment  which 
millions  of  women  give  themselves 
dailv.  Apply   Daggett    >S.    RamsdelTs 

Perfect   ("old   Cream   liberally   to   the 


regular 


fare    and    yvork    it    in    gently.    Where 

there-  danger  of  blackheads  ma-- 

with  special  care.  I  Be  tissues  to  remove 
the  excretions,  then  apply  more  cream 
and  massage  lightly,  with  an  upward 

stroke  oyer  the  clinks  and  forehead 
and  a  rotary  one  for  the  eyes.  Nom 
use  tissues  again  to  remove  any  exi 
cream.  This  routine,  performed  regu- 
larly, will  soon  improve  the  texture 
of  your  skin,  stimulate  circulation  and 
give  you  a  youthful,  well-kept  look. 

This  formula  is  the  same  one  which 
has  made  Daggett  &  Ram-dell's  Per- 
fect Cold  Cream  a  favorite  of  women 
since  the  days  of  the  gay  nineties.  Made 
from  the  finest  ingredients  to  be  found, 
and  created  to  agree  with  the  greatest 
Dumber  of  >kin-s.  There  are  no  better 
products  to  be  had  at  any  price. 

\  last-minute  whisk  of  Daggett  & 
RamsdelTs  Perfect  Vanishing  ('ream 

makes  the  powder  adhere  niceK    and 

giv-  a  lovely,  smooth,  finished  look. 

size     tube     free 


H  \«.«.J  1  I    &  BAMSMBUL,  2  PARK  AVEME.  NEW  YORK  CITY 

Please  send  me  FREE  one  of  your  regular  tubes  of  Daggett  &  R:imsdeU's  Perfect  Cold  Cream 

Name 


Street 
City  .. 


I'RINT 
TRIM 
PRINT 


Dept.  P-5      State . 


I  22 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


What  Do  You  Want  To 
Know  About  The  Pictures? 

Is  it  a  good  picture? 

Is  it  an  All-Talkie,  Part-Talkie — Silent  or  Sound? 
Is  it  the  kind  of  picture  I  would  like? 
Which  one  shall  we  see  tonight? 

Shall    we    take    the   children? 

PHOTOPLAY  will  solve  these  problems  for 
you — save  your  picture  time  and  money. 


Photoplay    gives    you: 

A  wealth  of  intimate  details  of 
the  daily  lives  of  the  screen  stars 
on  the  lots  and  in  their  homes. 

Striking  editorials  that  cut,  with' 
out  fear  or  favor,  into  the  very 
heart  of  the  motion  picture  in' 
dustry. 

Authorized  interviews  with  your 
favorite  actors  and  actresses  who 
speak  frankly  because  Photoplay 
enjoys  their  full  confidence. 

Articles  about  every  phase  of  the 
screen  by  outstanding  authori- 
ties  who  have  made  pictures  their 
life  business. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  $2.50  (Canada  $3.00. 
Foreign  $3.50)  for  which  you  will  kindly  enter  my 
subscription  (or  Photoplay  Magazine,  for  one  year, 
effective  with  the  next  Issue. 


Send  to 


Street  Address 
City 


.State. 


NOTICE! 

Do  not  subscribe  for  PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE  through  unknown  per- 
sons.  Verify  the  credentials  of  all 
solicitors.  If  in  doubt,  give  your 
subscription  to  your  newsdealer  or 
use  the  coupon  and  send  it  direct 
to  Photoplay. 


Photoplay's 

"Shadow  Stage" 

is  nationally  famous.  Here 
are  reviews  of  all  the  new 
pictures,  with  the  casts  of 
all  the  players.  PHOTO, 
PLAY  also  prints  monthly 
a  complete  summary  of 
every  picture  reviewed  in 
its  pages  for  the  previous 
six  months.  These  are 
but  a  few  of  a  dozen  great 
departments  in  which 
PHOTOPLAY  is  as  up-to- 
the-minute  as  your  daily 
newspaper.  You  cannot 
really  know  the  fascinating 
world  of  the  screen  unless 
you  are  a  regular  reader  of 

PHOTOPLAY 


SUPERB  FICTION 

by  the  Foremost  Writers 

Hollywood  Menus 

Advice  on  Girls'  Problems 

Addresses  of  the  Stars 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current 
Pictures 

Casts  of  Current  Pictures 

Questions  and  Answers 


pair  of  plain  looking  pumps — plain  to  the  tune 
of  eighty-five  dollars,  with  dainty  little  buckles 
which  raised  the  ante  fifteen.  One  hundred 
dollars  on  two  tiny  feet  which  traipsed  from 
one  set  to  another.  But  it's  her  hobby.  A  boot- 
maker in  Paris  spends  the  profits. 

JOHN  BOLES  pays  little  heed  to  shoes,  but 
J  his  socks — he  owns  nothing  but  black  silk,  if 
you  please.  Nary  a  color — not  even  a  striped 
clock  among  'em. 

Marlene  Dietrich  is  another  who  watches 
her  ankles.  So  she  spends  all  her  extra  pennies 
on  hose — the  kind  that  are  so  thin  that  you'd 
think  you  could  get  them  for  nothing,  but  which 
come  at  twenty  dollars. 

Marlene  is  temperamental  about  the  rest  of 
her  apparel.  For  weeks  she'll  wear  strictly 
tailored  suits;  in  fact,  downright  mannish.  So 
mannish  you  look  to  see  if  there  are  suspenders. 
Then  she  has  a  streak  of  dressing  ultra-femi- 
nine and  comes  forth  with  the  latest  Paris  crea- 
tions. During  one  of  these  latter  spells  you'll 
always  find  a  nosegay  of  violets  (artificial) 
pinned,  not  on  her  coat  lapel  but  directly  be- 
neath it.  Violets  of  various  colors — to  match 
the  different  accessories  which  go  with  her  dif- 
ferent ensembles. 

On  the  other  hand,  Dorothy  Lee  hates  stock- 
ings. So  much  so,  she  doesn't  own  any.  She 
was  married  to  Jimmy  Fidler,  her  new  press- 
agent  husband,  in  bare  legs!  She  hates  shoes 
just  as  much  and  is  likely  to  kick  them  off  at 
the  theater  or  right  in  the  middle  of  a  party. 

Fashions,  as  you  have  gathered,  do  not  al- 
ways intrigue  picture  celebrities.  When  short 
dresses  were  in  vogue,  Aileen  Pringle  never 
wore  them.  "I  dress  for  my  personality,  not 
for  fashion, "  she  tells  us.  Therefore,  her  dresses 
have  always  hung — and  always  will — at  a  point 
just  slightly  above  her  ankles. 

On  the  other  hand,  Alice  White  detests  long 
clothing.  The  knee  is  about  her  limit.  She 
flatly  refused,  when  being  fitted  for  "The 
Widow  from  Chicago, "  to  wear  anything  long- 
er. The  matter  was  carried  from  the  designer 
to  Hal  Wallis,  producer.  But  Alice  remained 
adamant,  and  short  dresses  she  wore.  She 
makes  one  exception.  Her  evening  gowns  sweep 
the  floor. 

Nancy  Carroll  doesn't  care  a  whoop  about 
clothes.  She  has  no  intention  of  trying  to  rival 
Lilyan  Tashman  and  Kay  Francis  for  the  best- 
dressed-woman  title.  She  buys  fifteen-dollar 
dresses  at  the  department  stores.  They  satisfy 
her,  and  that's  all  that  seems  to  matter. 

GARY  COOPER  is  a  fine  advertisement  for 
tweeds.  He  occasionally  buys  something 
else,  but  wears  them  seldom.  No  collar  or  tie; 
lovely  scarfs;  soft  Stetsons.  Never  a  cap.  Lupe 
Velez  helps  him  buy  all  of  his  clothes  and  agrees 
that  six  feet,  two  and  a  half  inches  is  more  im- 
pressive in  soft  tweed  mixtures  than  solid  colors. 
Dick  Barthelmess  dotes  on  top  hats.    He  will 

1  wear  one  on  the  slightest  provocation — even  to 

I  informal  functions.  Methinks  Dick  may  feel 
they  make  him  look  taller! 

You  will  always  find  Fifi  Dorsay  decked  out 

i  something  like  the  proverbial  Christmas  tree, 
in  the  evening.  She  says:  "At  a  party  you  are 
supposed  to  be  gay  and  happee!  You  should 
wear,  then,  gay  colors.    In  a  rain  coat  you  feel 

|  like  rain,  don't  you?  Well,  you  do  not  want  to 
feel  dull  in  the  evening.  My  new  dress — it 
cost  three  hundred  seventy-five  dollars  which 
is  so  much  money  I  tremble — eet  ees  bright  red. 
The  top  all  beads  and  the  bottom  all  ruffles. 

"I  haf  beeg  necklaces  and  bracelets  to  go 
with  eet.  Eet  ees  hard  to  get  beeg  jewels  in 
Hollywood.  They  should  be  so  beeg  they  make 
a  happy  noise.  I  do  not  mean  bad  taste — but 
I  mean  beeg  splashes. " — You  can  always  locate 
Fifi,  even  though  you  do  not  know  her,  at  a 
Cocoanut  Grove  or  Roosevelt  crush-party. 

Raquel  Torres  is  another  who  wears  vivid 
colors  to  harmonize  with  the  vividness  of  her 
Mexican  personality.  Reds,  lavenders,  bright 
blues  and  greens.  Everything  the  same.  Shoes 
stockings  and  purses  of*  exactly  the  identical 
shades.  She  buys  all  white  kid  bags  and  shoes, 
has  them  dyed  to  match  each  ensemble.    Bad 


PhOTOPI  w    M  v.\/im     i  01    M  w.I       I 


hm|     taste     on     either 

Raquel  or  I  ifi 

Lupe  \ <l<-/.  detests  gkn cs  and  seldom  » 
them     She  adores  evening  p*j»m»t  and  alw*)  -. 
wear-,  ih.  in  »ben  entertaining     She  i->  threat 
ening  to  appear  al  the  next  Hollywood  open- 
ing in  formal   pajara  I  I      It  she  d 
Diim  .in,  Miry  Nolan  and  a  host  of  others  will 
probably  follow  they  wear  them,  even 

formally,  for  home  dinners. 

D  I  ill  (  ll\l  M  illyhaaUttk  hv 

•"Meresl  in  i  lothes  althoi 
of  the  smartest  dressed  women  in  the  <  itv  Hut 
she  feels  that  t  lothes  arc  a  bother.  A  prodw  er 
told  her,  however,  thai  she  should  pay  more 
a  i  tin  i  ion  to  tier  appearance.  So  now  she  sends 
retary  i  lothes  hunting  for  her. 
She  often  telephones  home  in  the  afternoon 
and  reman         [am  tonight 

and  suppose  I  should  liavra  nc 

Graves,  the  -■■  rrtary,  and  Lois  \\  ilson 
the  devoted  [riend     then  go  to  Harry  Collins 
or  Greer's  and  bring  home  two  or  three     Mi 
Chatterton  chooses  <>nv  and  wears  it     She  sel 

dom  wears  other  than  black  or  white  or  hl.u  k 

and  gray. 

Lew  Ayres,  likewise,  has  no  interest  in  (lothes 
and  has,  thus  far,  made  no  effort  to  develop 
any.  His  ragamuffin  appearance  is  the  bane  of 
Loss  Lane's  the  ghi  friend  i  existence.  I  saw 
the  two  shopping  at  one  of  our  fashionable 
Hollywood  Boulevard  stores  on  the  day  before 
Christmas.  Lola  pretty  and  dainty,  Lew  in 
nondescript  trousers  which  looked  as  though 
they'd  seen  service  beneath  a  car,  a  leather 
jacket,  slouch  hat,  no  tie.  Lew  positively  re- 
fuses social  invitations,  even  those  of  Mary 
Pickford,  because  he  refuses  to  dress  for  them. 


Gloria  Swanson  gives  you  a  smart 
bit  of  headgear  in  her  new  comedy, 
"Obey  That  Impulse,"  This  little 
felt  hat,  bonnet-like  in  effect,  ringed 
with  white  feathers  and  worn  well 
off  the  forehead,  is  as  chic  a  piece 
of  hattery  as  the  spring  has  turned 
up.     Want  to  have  it  copied,  girls? 


A  tuick  creates  the  mode 

Snug-fitting  underdress,  now  made  pos- 
sible by  the  famous  little  tuck,  is  accepted 
by  smartly  gowned  women  as  the  answer 
to  their  demand  for  style  with  comfort. 

Kickernick  clings  closely  to  the  body  in 
all  positions,  without  binding.  The  tuck 
at  the  thigh,  short  front  and  longer  ex- 
panding back  give  greatest  freedom  to  the 
body  in  action  and  bring  relief  from  ugly 
bagginess  of  the  ordinary  garment. 

New  comfort,  new  beauty  in  underdress! 

Kickernick  is  made  to  give  long  service. 
And  the  new  Everlastik  inserts  will  retain 
their  life  even  beyond  the  long  life  o{  this 
remarkably  well  made  garment. 

Made  in  many  styles  in  modish  fabrics 
and  colors  for  every  dress  need.  At  your 
best  store.  Or  send  to  Winget  Kickernick 
Company,  Minneapolis,  for  booklet. 


Kickernick^ 

PATENTED    UNDERDRESS 


124 


A  Clean  Hat  in  a  Jiffy 

SEND  HIM  AWAY  with  a  clean  hat- 
spotless,  fresh,  like  new.  Takes  but  a 
minute  or  two  to  remove  all  spots  and  soil 
with  Energine. 

First  brush  hat  to  remove  loose  dirt.  Next 
remove  all  spots  with  a  clean  Energine- 
moistenedcloth.Then  lightly  wipe  entiresur- 
face  of  hat  with  same  cloth.  The  hat  can  be 
worn  immediately  because  Energine  dries 
instantly.  Leaves  no  odor  and  no  regrets. 

Easy  directions  on  the  Energine  label  soon 
make  you  expert  in  removing  grease  and 
dirt  spots  from  suits,  coats,  dresses,  gloves, 
ties,  shoes,  etc.  With  Energine,  spots  vanish 
like  magic,  soil  gives  way  quickly  to  a  new 
immaculate  freshness.  A 
little  Energine  goes  a  long 
way.  Get  the  Energine  hab- 
it and  save  money.  Large 
can  35c.  All  druggists. 

* 


Millions  Of  Cans 
Sold  Yearly 


LEAVES    NO  ODOR 

ENERGINE 

THE  PERFECT  CLEANING  FLUID 


G&mdic*  CanYUvtr 
HuktfafDruth 

If  your  cheeks  are  sallow,  eyes  dull ;  if  you're 
always  dead  tired,  don't  try  to  hide  the  truth. 
Take  Dr.  Edwards  Olive  Tablets.  A  safe 
substitute  for  dangerous  calomel.  Non-habit- 
forming.  A  pure  vegetable  compound  that 
helps  relieve  constipation,  cleanses  the  sys- 
tem, removes  the  greatest  cause  of  pallid 
cheeks.  A  matchless  corrective  in  use  for  20 
years.  Take  nightly  and  watch  pleasing  re- 
sults. Know  them  by  their  olive  color.  At 
druggists,  15c,  30c  and  60c 

^W^t5LIVE  TABLETS 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 

\\  i  accidentally  discovered  that  Joan  Ben- 
nett never  wears  orchids  which  cost  less  than 
fifteen  dollars  apiece!  It  was  on  the  set  of 
''Doctors'  Wives,"  which  she  recently  com- 
plete! with  Warner  Baxter.  She  was  in  eve- 
ning sown  anddemandedacorsage.  Shespurned 
artificial  llowers.  Real  orchids  were  produced. 
She  took  one  look  at  them  and  stormed.  In 
fact,  she  left  the  set.  They  had  been  live-dollar- 
apiece  orchids.  Johnny  Considine  was  super- 
vising the  production.  Mr.  Considine,  in  pri- 
vate life,  was  Miss  Bennett's  almost  constant 
companion.  "Send  her  what  she  wants;  the 
flowers  to  which  she  is  accustomed, "  he  ordered. 
They  were  fifteen  dollar  orchids. 

From  the  sublimity  of  orchids  to  the  ridicu- 
lousness of  suspenders!  Wallace  Beery  always 
wears  them,  yet  all  of  his  pants  have  a  manner 
of  sagging  and  worrying  the  on-looker  with  a 
definite  threat  to  slip  off  altogether.  Inciden- 
tally, he  always  slips  off  his  suspenders  while 
he  is  eating.  You  can  see  him  in  shirt  sleeves, 
suspenders  flapping  around  the  chair  legs,  any 
day  in  the  Metro-Gold wyn-Mayer  commissary. 

Undoubtedly,  "Hell's  Angels"  started  Jean 
Harlow  in  her  little  clothes  habit.  Evening 
gowns  cut  down  to — well,  you  saw  the  picture. 
And  she  never  varies  the  point.  Opening  or 
party — you  could  tell  Jean  by  that  cut  even 
though  there  wasn't  platinum  hair. 

It  is  generally  supposed  that  fat  ladies  can- 
not wear  printed  dresses.  Yet  Marie  Dressier 
is  a  fat  lady  and  admits  it — and  she  almost  in- 
variably wears  prints.  I  was  with  her  on  the 
set  the  other  day  when  she  discovered  her  elbow 
peeping  forth  from  a  green  and  white  one.  Her 
lips  pouted.  "I  am  going  to  patch  that.  Xo 
one  will  notice.  I  love  this  particular  print,  so 
I  can't  give  it  up." 

One  day  some  years  ago,  Marie  accompanied 
one  of  her  socially-prominent  Santa  Barbara 
friends  shopping.  It  was  an  ultra-fashionable 
establishment.  The  owner  asked  Marie  if  she 
wouldn't  like  to  try  on  something.  "  You  don't 
keep  clothes  for  elephants,"  Marie  answered. 

The  lady  brought  out  the  green  and  white 
print.  It  fitted  perfectly.  Marie  wore  it  from 
the  store  and  carried  away  six  others,  all  prints. 
The  first  real  interest  Marie  took  in  clothes. 

T_TOLLYWOOD  has  never  quite  recovered 
*■  -Mrom  a  peep  into  Constance  Bennett's  shoe 
closets.  Miss  Bennett  tops  the  entire  world,  I 
believe,  on  foot  apparel.  She  orders  hundreds 
at  a  time.  Practically  every  actress  has  more 
than  one  hundred  (they  provide  their  own  shoes 
for  pictures,  remember)  but  hundreds  upon 
hundreds  leaves  us  all  gasping. 

Then,  of  course,  there's  Buddy  Rogers'  pen- 
chant for  bright  colors,  and  the  two  sister  writ- 
ers who  wear  one  earring  each,  and,  of  course, 
Will  Rogers.  Broadway  boasts  of  A.  H.  Woods 
who  has  only  been  in  a  dress  suit  once.  Well, 
we  have  Will  who  wears  a  business  suit  to  an 
opening  while  his  young  son,  not  out  of  his 
teens,  appears  in  a  diminutive  Tuxedo. 

I've  heard  that  Broadway  thinks  its  people 
have  more  dress  idiosyncrasies  than  any  folk 
in  the  world.  Well,  I  guess  I've  proved  that 
Broadwayites  aren't  a  patch  on  Hollywood's 
oldest  corduroy  pants! 


Ti 


Madison 

OverlookingOceanat Illinois Are. 
ATLANTIC  CITy,  N.J. 
— ».  Atmosphere   of  the   old    South, 

faithfully  reproduced  and   transplanted  to  a  position  of  dis- 
Unction  by  the  sea  ...  jointly  offered  with  all  modern  com- 
forts, efficient  service  and  superior  cuisine. 
The  rates  are  most  attractive. 

FETTER  &  HOLLINGER,  Inc. 

Eugene  C.  Fetter,  Mng.  Dir. 


NEARLY  TIME 
TO   VOTE! 

Balloting  starts  next  month  to  award 
THE  PHOTOPLAY  GOLD  MEDAL 
OE  HONOR  for  the  best  picture  re- 
leased in  1930.  It's  your  privilege  to 
help  choose  this  picture.  The  whole 
film  world  recognizes  THE  PHOTO- 
PLAY MEDAL  as  the  outstanding 
popular  award  of  each  year  for  good 
work  well  done.  The  first  ballot  will 
appear  in  the  June  issue,  out  May  15. 


What  $1.25 

Will  Bring  You 

In  six  issues  of  Photo- 
play Magazine  hun- 
dreds of  unusual  pic- 
tures of  photoplayers 
and  illustrations  of  their 
work  and  pastime. 

Scores  of  interesting  ar- 
ticles about  the  people 
you  see  on  the  screen. 

Splendidly  written 
short  stories,  some  of 
which  you  will  see 
acted  at  your  moving 
picture  theater. 

Brief  reviews  of  cur- 
rent pictures  with  full 
casts  of  stars  playing. 

The  truth  and  nothing 
but  the  truth,  about 
motion  pictures,  the 
stars,  and  the  industry. 

You  have  read  this  issue 
of  Photoplay,  so  there  is 
no  necessity  for  telling  you 
that  it  is  one  of  the  most 
superbly  illustrated,  the 
best  written  and  most  at- 
tractively printed  maga- 
zines published  today  — 
and  alone  in  its  field  of 
motion  pictures. 

Send  a   money   order   or  check 
for  $1.25  addressed  to 

Photoplay  Magazine 

Depl.  H-5,  919 No.  Michigan  Av.,  CHICAGO 

and  receive  the  next  issue  and 
five  issues  thereafter. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Department  H-5 
919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  $1.25  (Can- 
ada $1.50;  Foreign  $1.75),  for  which  you  will 
kindly  enter  mv  subscription  for  Photoplay 
Magazine  for  six  months  (six  issues)  effective 
with  the  next  issue. 

Send  to 

Street  Address 

City    

State    


I'll.)  I  V.A/INI.     I  01     M  \'.  .     1  1 


$2,000  For  Your 
Picture  Idea 

ROM  PAOI  S3  I 

ch.ir.u  terisation  usually  has  the  effei  tof choking 
ie  action     <>!i  ire  touched  bat 

there  ii  little  or  nothing  foi  out  eyei     W 
here,  that  there  ia  Inch  >>t  movement 

I  lu-  ideal  screen  itory  a  that  in  which  plot 
and  characterisation  are  evenly  balani 
that  the  character!  live  and  grow  in  tenni  of 
visual  action 

Vction  i-  essential  in  a  motion  picture 
Motion   picture   means   pictures   In   motion, 
nothing  more  or  less. 

This  (act  should  never  be  lost  sight  of  by  the 
screen  writer. 

The  characters  must  be  compounded  of 
flesh  and  blood.  They  must  move  through  the 
story  naturally,  and  not  a>  though  they  were 

at t. u  hed  to  wires,  like  puppets.     Otherwise 
the  story  i>  not  convincing. 

THIS  isn't  easy  The  writer  must  be  ■  judge 
of  character.  He  must  be  able  to  manipulate 
the  personality  of  his  character  with  the 
precision  oi  a  scientist.  At  the  same  time  be 
must  bide  all  the  machinery.  Nothing  should 
creak  The  story  should  roll  along  just  as 
though  he  were  telling  the  story  of  something 
that    actually   happened. 

Never  for  a  moment  should  the  disagreeable 
sensation  of  artificiality   be  present. 

The  successful  writer  is  not  merely  a  story- 
teller. He  i>  a  person  with  keen  insight  into 
human  nature;  he  has  a  strong  sense  oi 
dramatic  value;  he  knows  his  subject.  Last  <Jf 
all,  he  has  the  ability  of  presenting  his  story 
vividly.  A  literary  style  is  not  necessary,  but 
the  clear  and  vivid  presentation  of  alluring 
in  dramatic  form  is  essential. 


Dorothy  Mackaill  wears  this  beautiful 

silk  negligee   in   "Party   Husband," 

her   next    picture,    in    which   James 

Rennie  is  her  leading  man 


The  fashionable  manner  of  the  day  is  the  manner  of 
personal  elegance.  It  is  something  that  goes  quite  be- 
yond dressing  smartly.  It  is  the  manner  that  suggests 
an  exquisitely  cared  for  body  underneath  the  clothes. 
A  body  skin  of  smooth,  silky  texture,  of  delicious  cool 
fragrance,  of  exquisite  ease.  And  to  the  woman  of 
fashion  this  cult  of  the  body  beautiful  is  no  secret. 
For  she  powders,  nay,  showers  herself  with  that  ce- 
lestial dust  milled  by  the  gods  to  an  infinite  fineness 
—  known  to  the  initiate  in  personal  elegance  as 
Vivaudou  Mavis  Talcum. 


f-- 

r"5 

1 

r 

— 1 

Los  Angeles 


V.    VIVAUDOU,     Inc. 
Paris    .    .    .    New  York     .     .     .     Chicago 


Toronto 


VAU  DOU 


TALCUM 


126 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


PICTURES   THAT  SATISFY 


OR  A   NEW   FILM   FREE! 


Complete  confi- 
dence in  the  won- 
derful results 
obtainable  with 
Agfa  Film  under 
all  conditions 
makes  possible 
this  unusual 
guarantee. 


ALL-WEATHER 


vv 

A  Guarantee  Bond 
With  Every  Roll 
AGFA    ANSCO    OF    BINGHAMTON,    N. 


FILM 


Hotel 

mbassador 

The  Ambassador 
Hotel  is  represent- 
ative of  everything 
that  the  finest 
hostelry  can  be  in 
location,  charm,ex- 
cellence  of  menus 
and  service. 

There  are  always 
celebrities  of  the 
screen  world  at 
The  Ambassador. 
It  is  in  the  social 
center  on  one  of 
the  world's  most 
famous  thorough- 
fares. 

NEW     Y  O  K  K 

■     PARK   AVE  N  UE 
AT  5  I  ST  STfcEET 

ATLANTIC  CITY-  PALM  BEACH  •  LOS  ANGELES 


The  Shadow  Stage 


(  CONTINUED  FROM  PA<.i    57 


GUN  SMOKE— Paramount 

D  EM  EM  BER  the  days  when  Tom  Mix  rode 
■L^-madly  through  wild  mountains  to  capture 
the  mishandled  maiden?  They're  back  again. 
Only  the  black-whiskered  villain  is  a  big-town 
gangster  vacationing  (?)  in  an  Idaho  village. 
Dick  Arlen  proves  that  cowboys  are  still  the 
best  killers.  Mary  Brian  is  the  girl;  William 
Boyd  the  modernized  menace.  Kids  will  love 
it. 

BIG  BUSINESS  GIRL— First  National 

T  IVELY  comedy  of  1931  styles  in  business 
■"and  love.  Gives  you  laughs  aplenty,  some 
thrills  and  the  satisfaction  of  having  seen  a 
good  movie — despite  the  advertising  plugs 
crammed  into  the  picture.  Loretta  Young 
wears  pretty  clothes,  and  could  stand  a  few 
more  pounds.  Frank  Albertson's  juvenility  is 
fresh.  Ricardo  Cortez  is  the  suave  old  villain 
who  means  no  good  to  the  girl. 

BAD  SISTER— Universal 

A  FIXE  little  picture,  as  natural  as  your  next 
■'■door  neighbor.  The  story  is  Booth 
Tarkington's  "The  Flirt,"  and  it's  about  a 
small  town  girl  willing  to  ruin  her  father  to  get 
what  she  wanted.  This  introduces  a  new  per- 
sonality, Sidney  Fox,  one  of  the  prettiest,  most 
talented  girls  you've  seen  in  a  long  time.  There 
is  a  grand  cast  which  includes  Conrad  Xagel. 
See  this. 


LAUGH  AND  GET  RICH— 
Radio  Pictures 

ANEW  team  of  funsters — Edna  May  Oliver, 
of  "  Cimarron"fame,and  Hugh  Herbert, the 
clown — make  a  hilarious  debut  in  the  first  of  a 
series  of  comedies.  It  deals  with  the  mis- 
adventures of  a  boarding-house  mistress  and 
her  chronically  tired  hubby.  Sounds  trite,  but 
you'll  be  agreeably  surprised  at  the  newness  of 
the  treatment  and  gags.  Good  for  plenty  of 
laughs. 

BEYOND  VICTORY—  RKO-Pathe 

OXE  of  those  grand  ideas  that  went  haywire 
in  the  making.  This  started  out  to  be  an 
epic  with  all  the  stars  on  the  Pathe  lot.  It 
winds  up  as  a  very  bad  hodge  podge  of  peace 
propaganda,  starring  Bill  Boyd.  Xot  even 
Jimmy  Gleason.  ZaSu  Pitts  and  Lew  Cody  can 
make  it  anything  but  a  poor  war  film.  Boyd  is 
excellent  in  his  soldier  sequences. 

THE  LIGHTNING  FLYER— Columbia 

HPHE  wild  son  of  the  railroad  president  be- 
*■  comes  an  unknown  employee  on  his  father's 
road.  Yes,  you  guessed  it.  He  makes  good. 
He  becomes — who  would  have  thought  it? — an 
engineer.  He  finds  the  love  of  a  good  woman 
and  everything  is  not  exactly  hotsy,  but  quite 
totsy.  It's  a  formula  film,  not  too  good,  not 
too  bad.  with  Dorothy  Sebastian  and  Jimmy 
Hall  as  the  Young  Couple. 


Sixty-five  feet  in  the  air  atop  the  famous  steel  camera  crane  invented 
by  Director  Paul  Fejos.  It  can  swing  that  number  of  feet  in  any  direction. 
Mounted  on  a  special  auto  truck,  it  can  be  used  for  "location"  as  well 
as  studio  use.  The  chauffeur  is  taking  Lew  Ayres,  Jean  Harlow  and 
Robert  Armstrong  for  a  joy  ride  between  the  taking  of  scenes  for  "The 

Iron  Man" 


PHOTi  I     i  OB    M  w      1       1 


P.U.l  l  \<  (  l     \udio  (  fn«fiM 
Prodw  tiun 

B\|)  grand  opera  |KM>rly  tr.i: 
n  en.      ["he  well  worn 
st«>r>-  of  the  clown  with  thr  I- 
suriL,'  by  members  of   thi  rlo  Grand 

Co.,  with   Fernando  Bcrtini  a~  ( 
This  pioneer  opera  film  is  crudely  made,  and 
acted  in  the  sticky  operatic  manner. 

Ml   \NEE  RIVER— Sorto  Art -WorldWidi 

IT  will  take  more  than  the  attractive  app 
of  Thelma   I  odd  and  <  Irani  Withi 
litt  this  melodrama  from  the  ordinary,  but  it 
verything   in    it.     The   ingredients  for 
Dispense,  beauty  and  pathos  are  there  and  are 
mixed  improperly. 

COMRADES  OF  1918  -Forenflhru 

THE  Germans  have  now  given  the  world 
their  talking  picture  of  the  terrors  an. I 
horrors  of  the  late  war  This  harrowing  talkie, 
'man,  follows  the  fortunes  of  four  young 
Teuton  soldiers  in  the  last  year  of  the  Struggle 
It '-  i  gruesome,  dismal  piece  of  work,  this,  but 
well  directed  and  acted  Don't  bring  the 
children     it's  too  terrible  for  the  infant  mind. 

\  RIDER  OF  THE  PLAINS— 
Syndicate 

THIS  i^  a  Kr-r-r-r-rand  old  Western,  with  all 
those  things:  The  hard  gny  whose  heart  is 
purest  gold  and  he  loves  litt-ul  cheeeldren;  the 
beautiful  heroine  who  bull  lieves  in  him  despite 
all;      the     parson      who-  ihsh — was 

oncet   a   bad   man;   the   post-office   thai 
robbed;     the     unjust     accusations — and     the 
happy,  happy  ending  when  voitue  is  rewarded 
and  the  dastardly  villains  get  theirs. 

WILD  WEST  WHOOPEE— Cosmo 

J\CK  PERRIN  -tars  in  this  conventional 
Western,  the  highlight  of  which  is  a  thrilling 
rodeo  sequence,  Jack's  handsome  steed.  ~ 
light,  plays  a  bit:  role  well,  and  the  riding  packs 
more  than  one  punch.  The  bee-oo-tiful  hero-  | 
ine  is  Josephine  Hill.  I'.  S. — 1'errin  gets  the 
gal. 


May  Birthdays 

May    1 — Josephine  Dunn 

May     1 — Rose  Hobart 

May     1 — Leila  Hyams 

May    2 — William  Bakewtll 

May    .?— Mary  Astor 

May    5 — Amos  (Freeman  F.  Gosden 

May    7 — Gary  Cooper 

May    9- — Richard  Barthelruess 

May  10 — Clarence  Brown 

May  13 — Jack  Holt 

May  13— Paul  Page 

May  14— Billie  Dove 

May  17 — Maureen  O'SuIlivan 

May  19 — Anthony  Bushel] 

May  20— Fstelle  Taylor 

May  21 — Lola  Lane 

May  21 — Robert  Montgomery 

May  2.5 — Dorothy  Lee 

May  23 — James  Gleason 

May  23 — Douglas  Fairbanks 

May  26— Al  Jolson 

May  26 — Paul  Lukas 

May  26 — Norma  Talmadge 

May  29— Zelma  O'Neal 


^  STYLE  £ 


WRIG  LEY'S,. 

NEW 


DOUBLE  MINT 


CHEWING  GUM 

PEPPERMINT   FLAVOR 


STYLE 


MAKE 

the  most  of  your  good  looks. 

YOUR 

magnetism  depends  upon  lips. 

MOUTH 

contours  need  DOUBLE  MINT. 

BEAUTIFUL 

results   come    from  chewing. 


THE  MORE  BEAUTIFUL  a  woman  is,  the  more 
thought  she  gives  to  her  looks  —  consequently, 
screen  stars  spend  much  time  before  their  mirrors. 
•  Chewing  DOUBLE  MINT  has  been  discovered  as 
the  quickest  Beauty  Secret  to  keep  their  lips  attrac- 
tively shaped.  They  keep  DOUBLE  MINT  on  their 
dressing  tables.  They  chew  it  while  making-up,  dress- 
ing and  undressing.  •  It  beautifies  lips  and  relaxes 
tense  muscles.  Its  flavor  is  marvelously  refreshing. 


4, 


xbc 


ic.xptusnK 


JalL'tJAjfAiq) 


L-200 


WRIG  LEY'S 


128 


KNOW  THESE 
FAMOUS  EYES? 


■MMMi 

You  -lnnil.1  fnrsli«-*i  onf  of  Univnrftal  Picturr** 

fi  r.     i  I  .  -  I     Hturrt.      This     l.r<.  \»  n-«  \  it  1     .i<   t  r«  —  -,     who 

wears.  14  year  sizr  clothcN,  i-  now  appearing  in 
a  ili  .iin.it  i<-  picture  of  Russian  life.  See  below*. 

refreshes  eyes 
after  motoring 

Motoring  causes  eyes  to  tire  and 
burn;  often  makes  them  blood- 
shot.  Relieve  these  annoying 
after-effects  by  applying  a  few 
drops  of  harmless  Murine.  In  a 
jiffy    your  eyes   will   feel    fresh 
and  rested;  soon  the  bloodshot 
condition  will  disappear.  Also 
use  Murine  after  golf  and  other 
outdoor  sports  to  offset  eye  ir- 
ritation. 60c  buys  60  applica- 
tions at  drug  and  dept.  stores. 

*Lupe  Velez  in  "Resurrection" 

Millions  of  Bottles  Used  Yearly! 


Y 


OU  are  entitled  to 
good   health,  too  .  . 

"IWTORE  valuable  than  mere  beauty  is 
-"•*  the  irresistible  personality  of  good 
health.  Men  do  prefer  women  who  radiate 
the  charm  of  good  health.  Dancing,  tennis, 
golf,  swimming — even  a  bridge  game  can 
not  be  enjoyed  with  aching  heads  and 
nerves  on  edge.  Women  who  continually 
feel  fidgety  .  .  .  nervous  .  .  .  irritable  .  .  . 
usually  lack  the  joyful  companionship  of 
both  sexes.  Dr.  Pierce's  Golden  Medical 
Discovery  will  enrich  your  blood,  soothe 
your  nerves  and  restore  the  roses  to  your 
face.     Ask  your  druggist  for 

Dr.  Pierce's 

Golden    Medical    Discovery 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


Ham  Actor 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  36  ] 

beamed  at  her  from  behind  his  desk.  Davey 
Cohen  Razed  idly  out  the  window.  Their 
a^ent,  reduced  to  silence  by  Don's  raucous 
warning  that  he  himself  would  handle  this, 
kept  looking  from  one  to  the  other. 

"You  see."  Abe  began,  telling  it  all  to 
Patricia,  "we've  seen  your  act,  and  we  think 
you  may  go  over  in  the  pictures.  But  we're 
not  sure.  You  never  can  tell.  Maybe,  you'll 
be  a  hit.  Maybe,  you'll  die  on  us.  So,  if 
you're  willing  to  gamble,  we'll  give  you  a 
three-month  contract.  If  you  make  good  and 
everybody's  satisfied,  we'll  sign  a  longer  one 
at  a  salary  to  be  decided  then.  For  the  three 
months  we'll  pay  you  a  weekly  salary  double 
the  one  you're  drawing  now.  Is  that  satis- 
factory?" 

"  T\JOT  quite, "  Don  told  him  with  a  sarcastic 

■l-^"  smile.  "We'll  go  over  in  the  pictures. 
Don't  worry  about  that.  Anybody  that  can 
get  to  the  top  in  vaudeville  can  make  good  any 
place,  especially  in  moving  pictures.  But  the 
salary  isn't  enough.  Double  it,  pay  our  trans- 
portation both  ways  and  we'll  play  with  you." 

Abe  hardly  heard  him.  He  was  drinking  in 
Patricia's  charm,  as  the  representative  of"  six 
million  male  movie  fans,  and  hoping  she 
wouldn't  develop  a  temperament  with  success. 
He  never  had  a  doubt  but  what  she  would  be 
a  tremendous  success.  She'd  got  him  and 
she'd  get  every  man  and  woman  who  saw  her. 

"What's  that?"  he  grunted,  startled  into 
attention  by  a  sudden  silence.  "Why,  yes. 
Of  course.  That's  fine.  Davey,  arrange  for 
their  screen  and  voice  tests.  Get  the  report 
soon  as  possible.  If  it's  satisfactory,  date  the 
contract  three  weeks  from  today  and  book 
transportation  to  Hollywood  at  Mrs. — and  Mr. 
Halburton's  convenience.  And  I  hope  you'U 
like  it  out  there  and  make  a  big  success." 

"Don't  lay  awake  worrying,"  Don  told  him. 
"We  will. " 

Both  tests  were  satisfactory,  but  the  camera 
and  the  microphone  were  especially  kind  to 
Patricia.  Her  shadow  took  on  an  elf-like  qual- 
ity on  the  screen  and  her  voice  tugged  at  the 
heart  strings. 

"I  told  you!"  Abe  Wagner  chortled  to 
Davey  Cohen.  "The  minute  I  saw  her  I 
recognized  it.    She's  a  natural!" 

"How  about  Halburton?"  asked  Davey 
Cohen. 

"Well,"  Abe  said  resignedly,  "he  goes  with 
her,  like  a  burr  goes  with  a  chestnut.  Give 
him  a  fat  part  and  cut  most  of  it  out  in  the 
cutting  room.  Maybe  he'll  get  shot  or  some- 
thing in  the  next  three  months." 

"Okay,  boss,"  said  Davey  Cohen. 

On  the  train,  Patricia,  who  in  all  her  travels 
had  never  before  occupied  a  drawing  room, 
thought  Mr.  Wagner  was  wonderful  to  get  it 
for  them  and  then  fill  it  with  lovely  flowers. 
But  Don  reminded  her  of  how  good  they  were 
and  told  her  they  rated  them. 


"LTOLLYWOOD  is  the  most  romantic  spot 
■*■  -*-in  the  world. 

It  is  the  fairyland  of  a  million  dreams  and 
the  place  where  thousands  of  them  come  true. 
There  the  modern  Cinderella  goes  to  her 
triumphs,  transformed  by  the  magic  of  oppor- 
tunity, the  camera's  eye  and  the  microphone 
from  a  model,  a  waitress,  a  stenographer,  a 
clerk,  a  society  or  an  extra  girl  to  a  princess 
of  the  films  who  may  pick  her  Prince  Charm- 
ing, from  any  part  of  the  world. 

It  was  heaven  for  a  while  to  Patricia  be- 
cause she  went  to  live  in  her  own  house.  It 
was  only  a  six-room  furnished  bungalow  half 
a  mile  from  the  studio,  but  it  was  what  she 
had  wished  for  and  dreamed  of  ever  since  her 
marriage,  a  home  for  Don  and  her. 

But  to  Don,  Hollywood  was  merely  another 


Now  see  what  the 

weather  has  done 

to  your  face! 


Poor  lamb!  You  stayed  out  in  all  sorts  of 
weather.  And  now  just  look  at  you!  You'll 
be  a  fright  in  all  the  soft,  fluffy,  feminine 
things  that  call  for  fair,  white  skin. 

There's  just  one  thing  to  do — get  a  jar  of 
Golden  Peacock  Bleach  Creme — right  away. 
Ten  nights — and  you'll  be  a  ravishing,  fair- 
skinned  creature!  All  the  weather-beaten 
look  gone — all  the  blotches  and  blackheads 
and  freckles  simply  coaxed  away. 

You  see,  Golden  Peacock  Bleach  Creme  is 
utterly  harmless — marvelously  gentle  and 
soothing  and  safe!  Has  the  same  ingredient 
they  use  in  baby  creams.  Soothes  and  softens, 
whitens  and  heals — and  invigorates.  Ask  for 
it  at  any  toiletry  counter — $1  the  jar. 

QoUen  Geocock 

0  BLEACH  CREME 


BIG  OPPORTUNITIES 
in  PHOTOGRAPHY      - 


ff! 


ft 


I 


bus 


SI. 500  to  $7,000 
ir  in  new  photo- 
tic  field.  Oppor- 
:ies  every*  here 
lined  motion  pie- 
con.roerc.al    or 

rail  photof. 
en  in  lartr  hotels, 
ential    section*. 


T  ascis-vtisc 

HORK 


schools,  hoepH.il*.  etc. 
MIA  Previous  experience 
unmuwiry.  Train  throucfa  our  Sim- 
plified System.  We  furnish  equipment. 
Eirn  while  you  learn.  Life  Membership 
FREE  of  extra  erarte   in   Personal   Serr-  m 

ice  Bureau  which  helps  you  start  a  studio 
or  puts  you  in  touch  with  opportunities.  Hundreds 
'.  N  V  Institute  Graduate*  ha»*  worn  juick 
*iio-ena  in  this  profitable  profe*«i»n  Send  TODAY  for 
FREE  Book  tellinx  how  to  qualify  for  (  )Mou...n  Pic- 
ture photornphy  or  Projection.  (  )  Commercial 
and  Portrait  Photocraphy  or  Photo-rumhinr. 
NEW  YORK  INSTITUTE  OF  f*MOTOGRAPHY 
Dept.  AF-1255     10  W— t  33rd  Street 


New  York  City 


Be  a  Hotel  Hostess 


I  Residential.     Apartment     and     Rssort 

Hotel,,     Club,.     Schools     and     Coffee 

I  Shop*     Calling     for     Tralnad     Woman 

Learn  to  be  a  hotel  hostess.  Op- 
portunities everywhere  for 
women  of  all  ages.  Splendid 
salaries,  fine  living,  luxurious 
surroundings  In  this  fascinating  profession. 

Previous  Experience  Proved  Uancilliri 

Qualify  for  a  splendid  position  and  good  salary 
— our  Personal  Coaching  Plan  adapts  the  train- 
ing to  your  needs.  Train  at  home  through  our 
complete  course  In  hotel  administration.  Na- 
tion-wide Employment  Service  Free  of  extra 

coi.t.  Lewis  graduatca  em  \  where  winning  forces.  Mrs. 
Lillie  N.  Ta.h  writer:  "Through  your  kindness  I  hare 
connected  with  this  hotel  as  Hoetew,.  It  is  a  beautiful 
place  and  I  like  it  Terr  much  ind-ed.'*  Write  today  lor 
Free  Book. -YOUR  Bid  OPPORTUNITY" 

LEWIS   HOTEL  TRAINING   SCHOOLS 
Sta.  OG-818  Weeh.rurton.  D.  C 

Tae    Onriaoi    and    Oniy    ScAeol   of    tit    Kind   ia    tar     World 


ySDrama-Dance 


J    »*  Mosieal  Comedy.  Stage  and  Concert   Denring.  Talking 

Pictures.  Elocution.  Personal  Deresoprnent.  Moek 
Theatre  Training  appearances  while  learning.  Pupils.  Mary  Piekford, 
Lea  Tracy.  Fred  and  Adete  Astaire,  etc.     Catalog  16. 

Irwin.  AlTlene  UnlTeralty.  66  W.  85th  St..  New  York 


Photoplay  Magazinz  ros  May,  1     1 


i  29 


liii  k  town  wild  a  ]tr«>.ulv\ ;i>  tomplex.  Holly- 
wood Boulevard  was  just  ■  village'*  main 
■tern,  even  at  night  when  mammoth 
threw  int"  ghastly  radiance  the  resplendent 
front*  "i  department  itores,  beaut}  - 1  > > ■  1  < -  or 
new  boteli  foi  their  ofb<  ial  opening*  Almost 
immediately  on  ln>  arrival  be  learned  that  1  In- 
only  Hit;  Tune  vaudcv  ille  house  in  I 
haii  lately  gone  into  w  tuna.  And  bow  1  ould  ■ 
be  civilised  without  .1  l>>v;  time  vaude- 
ville house?  "  1  he  trouble  with  this  burg,"  be 
told  the  inattentive  Patricia,  "is  that  it  has 
no  Pal 

TIIIA  were  not,  tiny  learned,  k°\^k  to  be 
ituxed  in  tluir  tir->t  picture.  Patricia  was 
:or  the  r6le  of  the  ingenue.  Mir  would 
play  .1  dancer  in  .1  nighl  dub  in  unrequited  love 
with  the  hero,  .1  racketeer,  and  Don  was  to 
racking,  sell  sacrificing  partner 
in  love  in  his  turn  with  her.  He  WU  to  win 
her  in  the  end.  Their  big  moment  in  the 
picture   was   to  come   when   they   held   the 

habitues   Of   a   Oight   Club  enthralled    by   their 

dam  inn  while  the  racketeer  hero,  turned  sud- 
denly straight,  shot  it  out  with  the  villain,  a 
double  crossing   business  rival  who  had   the 

heroine  in  his  power. 

The  cast   was  a  brilliant  one,  with   Harold 
,  the  sleek  star  playing  the  lead  Opposite 

Raeberta  Holmes,  the  «irl  who,  starting  with 

female  "heavy"  roles  in  the  old  silent  pictures, 
had  revealed  a  charming,  cultured  void  to 
the  microphone  and  was,  herself,  on  the  way  to 
stardom.  Ross  Wells,  one  of  the  best  in 
Hollywood,  was  directing.  The  story  was  full 
of  melodrama  and  dancing  ^irls.  catchy  tunes 
and  swift  action,  and  both  Patricia  and  Don 
had  fat  parts. 

Their  reactions  to  them  were  typical.  Patricia 
was  paralysed  with  fear. 

"I'll  never  be  able  to  barn  all  these  sides!" 
she  wailed.  "And  if  I  do,  I'll  never  put  them 
over      I'm  not  an  actress.     I'm  a  dancer." 

"Snap  out  of  it,  baby,"  Hon  told  her.  "I 
made  you   a  dancer  and   I'll   make  you   an 


Sylvia  Sidney  is  one  of  the  newest 
Paramount  finds.  A  popular  young 
Broadway  actress,  she'll  be  seen 
opposite  Gary  Cooper  in  "City 
Streets" 


/. 


I  islet  I 


ill 


u 


A    SOFT 

SMOOTH 
SKIN 

A  Linit  Beauty  Bath  is  sensational  in 
immediate  results —  delightful  —  no 
waiting  — and  trifling  expensel 

Merely  dissolve  half  a  package 
or  more  of  Linit  in  your  tub—  bathe 
in  the  usual  way,  using  your  favorite 
soap— and  then  feel  your  skin  I  In 
texture  it  will  be  soft  and  smooth  as 
velvet— as  well  as  perfect  in  elas- 
ticity and  suppleness. 

Linit  gives  the  skin  just  the  right 
amount  of  lubrication.  It  neither 
takes  away  too  much  of  the  neces- 
sary oil  in  the  skin,  which  often 
makes  it  chafed  and  inflamed,  nor 
does  it  dry  up  the  skin  by  clogging 
the  natural  oil  in  the  pores. 

THIS  TEST  PROVES  IT  TO  YOU! 

After  dissolving  a  handful  or  so  of 
Linit  in  a  basin  of  warm  water,  wash 
your  hands.  The  instant  your  hands 
come  in  contact  with  the  water  you 
are  aware  of  a  smoothness  like  rich 
cream— and  after  you  dry  your  hands, 
your  skin  has  a  delightful  softness. 
You'll  be  convinced- INSTANTLY! 

LINIT 

is   sold    by   your    Grocer 

• 
THE      BATH WA Y     TO     A 
SOFT,     SMOOTH     SKIN 


Grow 


Yes,  Grow  Eyelashes  and  Eye- 
brows like  this  in  30  Days 

Marvelous  new  discovery! — makes  eyelashes  and  eye- 
brows actually  grow!  Now  as  never  before  you  can 
positively  have  long,  curling,  silken  lashes  and  beauti- 
ful, wonderful  eyebrows. 

I  say  to  you  in  plain  English  that  no  matter  how  scant 
your  eyelashes  and  brows,  I  will  increase  their  length 
and  thickness  in  30  days — or  not  accept  one  penny. 
No  "ifs",  "ands"  or  "maybes" — you  actually  see 
startling  results — or  no  pay !  You  be  the  j  udge. 

Over  10,000  Women  Prove  It 
—prove  beyond  a  doubt  that  this  astounding  new 
discovery  fringes  the  eyes  with  long,  curling  natural 
lashes — makes  eyebrows  lovely,  silken  lines.  Read 
what  they  say — sworn  to  under  oath  before  a  notary 
public.  From  Mile.  Hefflehnger,  240  W.  "B"  St., 
Carlisle,  Pa. ;  "I  certainly  am  delighted  .  . .  people  now 
remark  how  long  and  silky  my  eyelashes  appear." 
From  Naomi  Otstot,  5437  Westminster  Ave.,  W. 
Philadelphia,  Pa.;  "I  am  greatly  pleased.  My  eye- 
brows and  lashes  are  beautiful  now."  Frances  Raviart 
of  Jeanette,  Pa.  says:  "Your  Eyelash  and  Eyebrow 
Beautifier  is  simply  marvelous."  Flora  J.  Corriveau, 
Biddeford,  Me.,  says  "With  your  Method  my  eye- 
lashes are  growing  long  and  luxurious." 

Results  Evident  In  One  Week 
In  one  week — often  in  a  day  or  so — you  see  the  lashes 
become  more  beautiful,  like  silken  fringe!  The  darling 
little  upward  curl  shows  itself  and  eyebrows  become 
sleek.     It's  the  thrill  of  a  lifetime — when  you  have 
lashes  and  brows  as  beautiful  as  any  ever  seen. 
Remember — I  guarantee  you  satisfactory  results  in 
30  days — or  your  money  refunded  in  full.  I  mean  ju3t 
that — no  quibble,  no  strings. 
Send    today.     Special  Intro-  ^?  SO i 

ductory     Price     only     81.95        fL-^£ '    «%«-«~«J 


NOW!    Later   $5.00.     Order 
NOW  at  low  price. 


Sent  C.  O.  D.—Or  if  money  accom- 
panies order  postage  will  be  prepaid. 


-Lucille  Young,  6565  Lucille  Young  Bid?.,  Chicago, 
»  Send  me  your  new  discovery  for  growing  eyelashes 
rand  eyebrows.  It  not  entirely  satisfied,  I'll  return 
;  In  30  days  and  you  refund  my  money. 

Price  C.  O.  t>.  Is  $1.95  plus  few  cents  postage 
"  II  S1.95  sent  with  order  postage  will  be  paid. 
"         Check  It  money  enclosed  P  or  C.  O.  D.  □ 


I  Name 

|  St.  Address 

;  City State 


PHOTOS 
ENLARGED 


(uii  i.-.tti   -   EACH 

•iroup.-, 
land*cai> ■«     Of     •  ■IwTljUiwnlll    of 

■  ny  coup  nk-turr.  Safe  return 
of  your  original  photo  Guar- 
anteed. 

Send  NO  MONEY 

Ju5t  mail  photo  or  snapshot  (any 
ui')  and  within  a  wrrk  you  will 
reo-iTe  your  beautiful  life-like 
enlargement  -ueSxlO  ruaranteed 
f-.d~.-as  Pay  prwtman  <4-<w  plus 
a    few    eent»    pnttare  or  send    50c 

■  ith  order  and  we  pay  postage. 
— send   your  photo   today. 


M 


Take  advantage  of  this  amaxinx  offer 


RPV      ART"  538  So-  Dearborn 

*VE"A    raa*  *     Dept.  470,    CHICAGO,  ILL. 


Always  E.c.t.d  7  Fat.ao.d  ?  Worri.d  7 
Poaaiwitatlc?  Constipation,  indication,  cold 
—  dmv  spell*  and  b.v.li(ulnea»  are  rausro  br  NERVE 
EXHAUSTION.  Di.ti,  M.iu  a.d  mriir.-rj  coaaot  AWp  a-eot.  fie* 
nerve*.'     Learn    how     to    retain     Vuror.     Calmneas    and    Sell    Confidence. 

wood   25c  for   th.a   amailns  book. 
RICHARD    BLACKSTONE.  N  225    Flat.ro*  Bide.  NEW  YORK 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 

actress.  I  can  improve  on  every  one  of  my 
own  lines.  But  would  I  like  to  have  a  part 
like  this  on  Broadway  instead  of  in  a  canned 
drama!  Baby,  I'd  jerk  'em  out  of  their  seats 
and  slay  'em!" 

CO  the  talkies  reached  out  and  grabbed  them. 
■-'Patricia  spent  the  first  week  in  the  studio 
in  a  state  of  partial  paralysis,  and  her  nights 
repeating  her  lines  over  and  over  again  under 
her  husband's  direction.  The  tremendous  or- 
ganization set  in  motion  in  the  making  of  a 
modem  moving  picture  awed  even  Don  at 
first.  The  huge  arc  and  Kleig  lights  literally 
stunned  them  like  a  blow.  The  iterated  and 
reiterated  rehearsals  wearied,  irritated  and 
bored  them. 

They  missed  their  audiences  dreadfully.  In 
vaudeville  they  were  used  to  throwing  their 
personalities  out  into  the  pit  and  having 
them  bounce  back  on  laughter  and  applause 
or  even  on  the  silence  of  a  deep  interest. 
Here  they  felt,  as  they  acted,  enjoined  from 
ever  looking  into  the  camera,  but  always  aware 
of  its  cold,  cruel,  lidless  glare,  that  they  were 
throwing  their  personalities  into  a  void  from 
which  they  would  never  return. 

And  then,  suddenly,  life  snapped  back  to 
normal.  They  had  slipped  into  the  new 
medium.  They  were  on  their  way  toward 
becoming  veterans  of  the  sonorous  screen. 

Don  had  been  studying  Wells,  the  director, 
from  the  first  day  because  he  heard  that  he 
had  a  ten-year  list  of  successful  pictures  be- 
hind him.  The  director  was  a  tall,  slim  dark 
man  with  gray  eyes  and  swift'nervous  move- 
ments. He  directed  all  interior  scenes  dressed 
in  a  disreputable  gray  cap,  a  sweat  shirt,  old 
blue  trousers  and  black  Oxfords.  On  location 
he  affected  the  cap,  a  sweater,  riding  breeches 
and  puttees. 

He  wasted  little  time  in  instructions.  He 
detailed  his  wants  and  then  waited  for  the 
cast  to  give  them  to  him.  He  paid,  Don 
noted,  little  attention  to  the  dialogue  as 
written,  but  would  go  into  consultation  with 
the  actors  in  a  scene.  Out  of  the  consultation 
would  evolve  a  dialogue  as  natural  as  men 
and  women  talked. 

"Mr.  Wells,"  Don  told  him  one  day  as  they 
sat  waiting  for  the  electricians  to  light  a  scene. 
"My  dialogue  is  stiff.  The  gags  are  out  of 
Joe  Miller's  note  book.  I  got  some  of  my  own 
that  will  pull  'em  out  of  their  seats.  Some  we 
used  in  our  act." 

Wells  looked  quickly  at  him  and  then  away, 
thinking  of  a  conversation  he  and  Jack  Denny, 
his  cutter,  had  had  with  Davey  Cohen,  Abe 
Wagner's  secretary,  concerning  this  man. 

"The  old  man,"  Davey  drawled,  looking  out 
of  Wells'  office  window,  "thinks  this  Hal- 
burton  girl's  a  natural.  If  she  is,  he  wants  to 
start  building  her  right  from  the  start.  But 
her  husband's  a  wet  smack.  A  swell-headed 
ham.  We  had  to  sign  him  up  to  get  her. 
What  becomes  of  him  is  not  essential  a-tall." 

WELLS  shot  a  quick  look  at  Denny,  whose 
right  eye  went  dead  behind  the  lid. 

"The  axe,  eh,"  he  said. 

"Oh,  I'm  not  saying  that,"  Davey  said 
hastily.  "In  fact,  I'm  not  saying  anything. 
But  lots  of  things  happen  in  the  cutting  room. 
You  know  how  it  is  in  the  pictures,  Ross — 
and  Jack.     Every  man  for  himself. " 

So  now  Ross  looked  back  at  Don. 

"Fine,"  he  said.  "We'll  take  it  both  ways. 
As  written  and  as  we  ad  lib  it.  I  noticed  that 
some  of  your  stuff  is  overhung  with  moss." 

As  Wells  got  up  to  rehearse  on  the  lighted 
set,  Don  asked  himself,  wonderingly,  why  he 
had  ever  thought  that  Hollywood  was  a  bone- 
yard  and  that  picture  people  were  all  four- 
flushers. 

Take  Wells  now.  There  was  a  man  as  good 
in  his  line  as  Belasco  or  young  Jed  Harris 
were  in  theirs.  Maybe  better.  He  could  play  on 
actors  and  actresses  just  like  a  musician  plays 
on  his  instrument.  He  could  tighten  them  up 
so  they'd  cry,  loosen  'em  up  so  they'd  laugh. 
Make  'em  so  mad  they'd  be  willing  to  kill — 
and  look  it. 


Take  Miss  Holmes,  the  leading  woman. 
Smooth  as  silk.  An  artiste  and  a  lady  on  and 
off.  And  Deane.  He  rated  being  a  star. 
Didn't  he  look  like  everybody  thought  a 
slick  high-class  racketeer  ought  to  look  as  he 
played  that  scene  with  Patricia? 

Don  moved  nearer  to  watch  and  listen. 

Patricia  in  a  brassiere,  trunks  and  dancing 
shoes,  was  offering  her  love  brazenly,  fearfully 
and  pathetically  to  the  smooth  killer.  Her 
lines  were  great,  breathless  with  the  anxiety 
she  was  trying  to  hide  from  him.  They  ought 
to  be.  He'd  written  most  of  them  himself 
and  then  drilled  her  to  act  like  that. 

Say,  the  kid  was  beautiful  with  that  nice, 
shapely  little  body  of  hers  and  her  baby  face. 
Others  thought  so,  too.  Look  at  them  eating 
her  up  with  their  eyes.  She'd  even  got  Deane. 
That  fire  in  his  look  wasn't  written  in  the 
script. 

"All  right,"  snapped  Wells.    "We'll  take  it." 

A  XD  Patricia  brought  the  tears  in  that  scene 
*Mo  the  eyes  of  the  people  who  saw  the  shoot- 
ing of  it.  For  she  was  young  love,  tough  yet 
tender,  innocent  and  too  wise,  offering  herself 
to  death,  as  young  love  often  does. 

The  kid  with  his  help,  Don  admitted,  was 
going  to  knock  'em  cold  in  pictures.  Funny 
he  hadn't  noticed  for  a  long  time  how  pretty 
she  was. 

She  beckoned  him  and  he  went  over  to  the 
group. 

"I  wish  you  and  Mrs.  Halburton  would  re- 
hearse your  number  with  the  chorus,"  Wells 
told  him.  "Richardson  is  waiting  with  them 
on  Stage  7." 

He  threw  her  cloak  around  her  and  as  they 
walked  down  to  where  the  chorus  waited,  he 
put  his  arms  around  her  shoulders. 

"Baby,  you  were  great,"  he  told  her.  "You're 
always  great,  but  you're  getting  greater.  Lynn 
Fontanne  couldn't  improve  on  that  scene." 

"Oh,  Don!  Was  I  really?  You  and  I,  you 
mean!  Gee,  hon,  you're  good  to  me.  So 
patient,  working  on  me  all  the  time.  And 
what  you're  going  to  do  to  them  with  those 
funny  cracks  and  your  swell  dancing." 

"Yeh,"  said  Don.  "I  am  good.  We're 
both  good.  I  think  we'll  leave  vaudeville  flat 
and  go  into  the  pictures.  Xo  getting  up  at 
3  a.  >i.  to  catch  a  train." 

"Xo  sleeping  in  bum  hotels,"  chorused  Pat. 

"Yeh.  I  guess  pictures  is  a  good  bet.  And 
we  got  a  great  start.  We're  both  knocking 
'em  bow-legged  in  our  first  one." 

"I'll  say." 

As  the  picture  neared  completion  Patricia 
found  herself  happier  than  she  had  ever  been. 
For  the  first  time  in  her  life  she  had  every- 
thing she  wanted,  a  home,  an  easy  job  with 
an  incredible  salary,  and  Don. 

So  she  played  house  with  the  enthusiasm 
of  a  bride.  She  changed  the  furniture  around 
in  every  room  once  a  week.  She  bought  new 
pieces,  and  she  revealed  herself  as  a  housewife 
who  could  cook  up  a  mean  meal. 

Don  should  have  been  as  happy  as  she  was, 
but  he  wasn't.  His  daily  schedule  at  the 
studio  practically  constituted  a  vacation  after 
a  lifetime  in  vaudeville.  He  missed  Broadway. 
He  missed  the  clatter  of  a  small  theatrical 
community  like  an  actor's  hotel  and,  most  of 
all,  he  missed  Patricia's  seemingly  passionate 
concentration  upon  him.  his  hopes,  his  plans 
and  his  prophecies  as  to  their  ultimate  success. 
Patricia,  in  the  years  of  her  married  life,  had 
perfected  an  attitude  of  rapt  attention  on  his 
every  word  behind  which  she  could  dive  down 
into  her  own  affairs  coming  up  only  at  intervals 
with  the  word  which  exactly  fitted  into  his 
conversation.    Most  of  the  time  it  was  "Yes." 

NOW,  occupied  with  her  new  interest,  she 
discarded  most  of  her  protective  coloring 
and  was  either  inattentive  or  obviously  bored. 
And  Don  at  first  was  puzzled,  then  hurt  and 
finally  savage.  At  that  moment  Joan  Mercer 
came  into  their  lives. 

Joan  Mercer  was  one  of  the  tribe  of  women 
that  infests  Hollywood  and  keeps  it  hovering 
around  the  first  page.     She  was  listed  in  the 


Photoplay  Magazine  job  May,  i     1 


»3» 


1 

■lipping  into  her  thirties,  .i  beautiful  auburn 

haired  woman  with  claasii   failures  tnd  mali 

She  had  been  divon  < « i  tw  i<  >■.  doing 

well  im.iiH  i.iIU-  on  both  her  ^<  tit.  i 

would  keep  nei  tin-  r< si  of  hei  lift  tod 

meanwhile   the  dabbled   u   "extra"   in   the 

picturea  while  she  waited  for  fur  third  buaband 

ti>  make  his  appi 

Don  noticed  her  the  tirst  time  in  the  ni«ht 
chlbkSet,  his  attention  being  attracted  by  the 

sensational  amount  of  beautifully  modelled 

be  displayed      Later  one  night  he  pel 

her  in  "The  Pig'n  Whistle,"  ■  restaurant  into 

which  he  had   prowled,   the   victim  of  one  of 
Patricia's  furniture  moving*. 

Ih,  Mr.  Halburton!"  She  called  him  from 
a  booth  in  which  she  sat  alone.  "You  don't 
know  me  at  all.  Probably  haven't  even 
noticed  me  I'm  just  an  extra  girl  But  I'm 
been  one  of  the  props  in  your  picture  and  I've 
wanted    so    to    tell    you    how    much    I    admire 

your  work,  especially  your  dancing.    And  M. 
Halburton's  too,  of  course.     Won't  you  sit 

down?" 

Now,  here  was  an  intelligent  woman    Sun 
he'd  sit  down  for  a  minute.     Had 
home  and  catch  tome  sleep     Big  day  tomorrow 
He  and  Mr-    llalburton  were  helping  Richard- 

with  a  new  number. 

inarily.  this  would  have  been  a  casual 
encounter  that  a  man  has  difficulty  remember 
Dig    two    week-   after    it    happened.      But    she 

stepped  in  at  the  psychological  moment,  when 

both  Don  and  Patricia  wen-  bewildered  a- 
they  tried  to  adapt  themselves  to  a  new  en- 
vironment and  getting  on  each  other's  nerves 
in  the  process  She  sensed  this,  with  the  sure 
instinct  of  the  born  man  hunter,  and  went  to 
work  on  him.  soothing  him  with  the  very  rapt 
attention  his  wife  was  now  refusing  him.  look 
Big  into  his  eyes  and  holding  his  hand  in  both 
of  hers  as  she  told  him  he  was  the  most  wonder- 
ful man  she  had  ever  known  in  all  her  short, 
misunderstood  life  of  nearly  twenty-five  years 

True  to  her  type,  she  Haunted  her  owner 
ship  in  the  studio,  calling  on  him  for  little 
services  which  a  woman  demands  from  a  man 
only  when  she  possesses  him  And  Don  leaped 
to  do  her  bidding,  so  that  the  affair  I>ecame  a 
scandal. 

It  pot  to  the  front  offices  and  Davey  Cohen 
dropped  in  to  see  for  himself. 


And  here's  Reri,  South  Sea  Island 
beauty,  who,  after  a  brief  career  of 
starring  in  F.  W.  Murnau's  "Tabu," 
has  gone  back  to  nibbling  breadfruit 
and  drinking  cocoanut  milk  again. 
Just  another  girl  who  Used  to  Be  a 
Movie  Star  Herself 


lo  wash  dishes  faster 

Cleaning  In mrs  can  \»-  shortened!  Take  dishwashing  dot 
example.  Two  secrets  are:  water  that's  realh  hot  -  and 
plenty  of  soap.  Having  a  "system"  helps,  t<><.-     see  1  ■<  •<  >kl«t. 


lo  remove  iodine  stains 

Our  free  booklet  al-o  explains  how  to  remove  IS  difficult 
(luit  common)  Btains.  1  "i  in-taut  <-.  iodine:  W  ash  while  fresh 
in  warm  water  and  .->>.ip:  apply  concentrated  ammonia;  wash 
off  in  alcohol.  A  "dry  '  method  is  also  described. 


lo  clean  woodwork  easier 

Don'l  expet  I  "tired  suds"  to  clean  woodwork  thoroughly.  To 
do  better  work  in  less  time  and  with  less  effort  !><•  sure  to 
change  the  water  frequently. 


lo  finish  cleaning  by  noon 


The  way  to  get  your  cleaning  done  faster  —  and  better  —  is  to 
combine  many  little  time-saving  methods  into  a  single,  prac- 
tical cleaning-plan.  Our  booklet  tells  exactly  how  to  do  this! 


Read  this  FREE  booklet 


A  Cleaner  House  bv  12  O'clock  is  interesting,  practical. 
Takes  only  a  few  minutes  to  read  —  yet  can  save  you  many 
hours.  S  :id  for  free  copy  today. 

CLEANLINESS    INSTITUTE 


E*tablixhetl 

to  promote  public 

welfare 

by 

teaching 

the 

nihil- 

"f 

clean 

li 

meet 

VNLINESS  INSTiTVTF..  Depi.  N'3 
*i  East  17th  Street.  New  Y..rk.  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me 

free  o 

ran 

'■■  -t 

"A 

Cleaner  House  by 

12  O'clock." 

P5-31      i 

Street                

Pule 







; 

I  7  2 


A  New  Outlook  on  Life 

— That's  what  a  Dude  Ranch  vacation  in  the  Mon- 
tana-Wyoming Rockies  gives  you.    Ride,  hike,  fish, 
swim  —  or  just  rest  luxuriously. 
Low  summer  excursion  fares  on  the 
Northern  Pacific 

Interested  in  a  Western  trip? 
Where?  Send  for  free  booklets  and 
full  information.  E.  E.  Nelson,  414 
Northern  Pacific  Ry.,  St. Paul, Minn. 
For  travel  in  the  West — the  new- 
est of  transcontinental  trains,  the 

North    Coas 


r 


Your 
Unique 
Brush 
Leaves 
My   H 


air 


That's  what  one  prominent  woman 
said  about  this  amazing  new  hair  brush 
— that  jits  the  head.  Remarkable! — 
that  from  such  a  simple  principle — 
graduated  bristles — should  come  lux- 
urious, soft  hair. 

These  bristles  reach  down  into  your  hair  and 
onto  your  scalp.  Gently  massaging  the  base  of 
each  hair,  stimulating  the  circulation,  cleansing 
your  scalp  of  loose  hair.  dandruff  and  grease  de- 
posits. And  all  this  wirh  a  minimum  effort.  For 
this  brush  do.-s  three  times  the  work  of  the  ordi- 
nary brush  with  the  same  number  of  strokes. 

You.  too,  may  have  lovely  hair — easily,  quickly. 
S-nd  $2.00  for  the  large  size  brush,  or  $1.25  fir 
trie  regular  si;e  brush, — also  your  dealer's  name. 
Specify  color — nile  green,  beige  or  coral.  Every 
brush  of  genuine  Pyroloid. 


THE 

WILCOX 

HAIR  BRUSH 

"section      ATHOL, 

SHOWS  HOW      k^i    A    C  C 
NCAVEO  BRISTLES 
FIT  THE  HEAD 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 

"Hear  Halburton's  running  true  to  form,"  I 
he   said    casually    to    Wells.      "Falling   for   a 
tramp  and  gumming  up  the  works.     I   told  I 
you  that  ham  was  no  good. " 

"Yes,"  admitted  wells  pleasantly, 
you  did.  Hut  this  other's  news  to  me.  Too 
busy  trying  to  make  a  picture  to  root  into 
my  people's  affairs.  The  trouble  with  you 
and  Wagnet  and  the  other  big  shots  around 
here,  Davey,  is  that  you're  too  damned  moral 
— when  it  comes  to  the  other  fellow.  A 
scavenger  thinks  everything  is  rotten.  Hut 
get  this,  Davey.  I'm  here  to  make  pictures, 
not  to  snoop.  And  I'll  throw  any  spy  that 
comes  in  here  snooping  right  through  a  sky- 
light.    How  the — " 

"TYAVEY  stepped  quickly  away  from  there. 
-* — ^Wells'  bursts  of  furious  temper  had  been 
notorious  for  years. 

I'atricia  noticed  it  and  kept  her  chin  up 
though  her  heart  was  breaking.  She  wanted 
to  go  to  Don  and  fight  it  out  as  she  had  done 
three  times  before,  but  pride  and  bewilder- 
ment, and  this  new  strange  barrier,  kept  her 
from  it.  He  saved  her  the  trouble  by  bringing 
it  to  her. 

"I  guess,  Patricia,  that  you  and  I  are  washed 
up,"  he  told  her  in  the  course  of  a  spat  which 
developed  from  an  unsuccessful  joint  search 
for  his  favorite  necktie.  "Now,  don't  get  me 
wrong.  I  think  you're  a  swell  kid.  You  know 
what  I've  done  for  you,  but  the  feeling  we 
used  to  have  for  each  other  seems  to  have 
gone.  You  don't  understand  me.  You'll  get 
along  all  right.  You're  going  to  be  great  in 
pictures.  Y'ou  won't  need  me  any  longer. 
I've  taught  you  all  I  know. " 

"All  right,  Don,"  she  said,  through  a  set 
smile.  '"Sure  I'll  get  along.  But  don't  kid 
yourself  about  giving  me  everything  I've  got 
before  you  fell  for  a  cheap  studio  tramp.  You 
taught  me  all  you  know  five  minutes  after 
we  met  and  you  wasted  three  minutes  at  that. 
Sure  I'll  make  good  in  pictures,  in  spite  of 
being  married  to  you.  Why,  everybody  in 
the  studio  hates  you  for  the  swell-headed  ham 
you  are. " 

"They're  jealous,"  Don  said  absently.  For 
the  love  of  Mike,  what  was  there  to  get  sore 
at?    Tears  had  melted  her  and  she  fled. 

"I'll  be  a  star  when  you're  just  a  cheap 
hoofer  doing  the  six-a-day  and  liking  it,"  she 
wailed.  "Now  you  get  out  of  here.  I  hate 
you!" 

He  went  to  live  at  the  Hotel  Christy.  The 
Christy  had  a  newsstand  and  he  could  buy  the 
vaudeville  papers  the  day  they  came  out. 


THEY  sat  in  the  projection  room  watching 
the  completed  picture — Abe  Wagner,  Davey 
Cohen,  Deane,  Miss  Holmes,  Patricia.  Don 
and  two  stenographers.  Wells  sat  with  his  arms 
folded,  his  chin  cupped  in  his  right  hand. 
Beside  him  sat  Jack  Denny,  his  cutter,  at  a 
small  table  under  a  green-shaded  electric  light, 
making  notes  of  the  director's  comments. 

The  picture  moved  swiftly,  living  up  to 
what  the  publicity  department  had  already 
sent  out  to  the  trade.  It  was  a  tale  of  love 
and  passion,  hurtling  with  the  speed  of  an 
express  train  to  wreck  your  emotions.  But 
the  express  train  was  crippled.  It  had  a  big 
hole  in  the  center  of  it.  Its  comedy  relief 
was  nothing  but  cheap  burlesque  comedy, 
hoary  with  old  jokes. 

The  performances  of  Deane  and  Miss  Holmes 
were  things  of  pure,  true  artistry  that  had 
brought  them  their  place  in  pictures.  The 
songs  and  dances  were  snappy,  new,  zestful, 
beautiful.  They  were  different.  Patricia 
stepped  out  of  obscurity  to  steal  the  picture. 
She  had  charm  and  beauty.  She  was  youth 
and  innocent  love  trying  to  be  hard-boiled. 
She  was  the  find  of  the  last  ten  years.  Every- 
body recognized  it.  Even  Deane  and  Miss 
Holmes  felt  it  with  no  jealousy. 

And  as  the  picture  ran  on,  a  great  weight  of 
bewilderment  settled  slowly  down  on  Don's 
brain.     He  was  a  flop.     A  terrible  flop.     Not 


The  Doctors9 
Testimony 


Doctors  in  every  section  of  the 
country  recommend  and  pre- 
scribe Pluto  Mineral  Water  for 
their  patients.  Pluto  Water,  they 
declare,  is  the  one  best  laxative. 

Pluto  Water  cannot  harm  the 
most  sensitive  of  body  tissues, 
testify  these  thousands  of  repu- 
table physicians.  It  rapidly, 
thoroughly  flushes  away  the 
health-destroying  poisons  that 
accumulate  in  the  intestinal 
tract  .  .  .  flushes  away  these 
poisonous  wastes  without  grip- 
ing or  causing  discomfort  of 
any  kind. 

Pluto  Water  comes  from  the 
great  health  resort  at  French 
Lick,  Indiana.  It  is  sold  at  drug 
stores  and  fountains  every- 
where. Ask  your  own  doctor 
about  it. 


HEALTH  HINT:  A  little 
Pluto  Water  each  morning 
upon  arising,  diluted  in 
plain  hot  or  cold  water, 
will  help  keep  you  regular 
— promote  glowing  health. 


America's  Laxative  Mineral  Water 


PbOTOPI  O    M  U  \/im     i  01    M 


only  ;i  terrible  Bop,  but  be  was  ruining  the 

ii.uit  asinine  remai It 
only  ".it  funny,  thej  »>  ■■  H 

I    hall    Wit,  and   tl  till   tll.lt    »a> 

Hut  that  was  tin-  way  bit  linca  appeared  in 
tin-  m  r  1 1 > t '  Where  were  hit  own  lines?  Where 
were  bii  smart .  inapp)  wisc-i 

v\ lull-  tin  \  were  shooting  that 
tins  had  to  n  t.ik.  ..  •..  ral 
weren't  then  \ tn I  the  ob\  ious  answer  ba 
at  Ins  Intelligence  1 1 •  pushed  it  away  but 
it  banged  again  immediate!)  and  harder  than 
liny  bad  |>ut  hnu  mi  the  -.|M.t'  Wells 
hail  given  him  tin-  worksl  Wells,  a  man  he'd 
bet  hn  life  «  as  mi  tin-  te i 

Mr  wanted  tn  jump  u|>  and  run  awa\       II' 

wanted  to  |>uk  up  something  and  hurl  it  at 
tin-  screen.  II''  wanted  t<>  get  his  hngen  in 
Wells'  throat  and  choke  him  to  death 

TJIT  be  was  a  trouper.     Gee,  tin-  ki 
™greatl  Even  In-  never  knee  she  had  it  in  her. 

Slu-    was   WOWing    them!      M\    l.od.    what   an 
I  -In    arasl     And  In-  hail  taughl  her  a  lot 

<ii  it  I  in\  could  never  take-  that  from  him. 
As  tor  him  being  a  Sop  that  was  the  breaks 
in  tlu-  game.  That  was  show  business  \ 
tin-  whir  of  thr  picture  Stopped  with  a  jerk 
and  thr  lights  went  mi.  he  slunk  nut.  Had  a 
date  with  Joan       \-  he  went,  he  fell  Petri 

on  him.    They  were  lull  of  tears. 
Was  waiting  for  him  in  her  car.     He'd  have  to 

tell  her.  A  Sop  I  Could  you  beat  that!  You 
never  knew  in  this  Inisini 

"Hello,  old  Thing,"  she  greeted  him.  "Won- 
der if  you'd  mind  if  I  ran  along.  Cot  a  last 
minute  appointment  with  the  hair  dresser." 

"Joan,"  In-  said.  "Listen,  Bweethearl  1 
Bopped.     Can  you  imagine?' 

••\cs,"  slu-  said.    "I  neard  you  did.    Well, 

buck  up.     Maybe  you'll  he  better  next   time. 
Oh,  don't  bother  to  call  me  up  to- 
night.    Goinj:  out. " 

Silence  held  in  the  projection  room,  a 
stunned  and  fearful  silence.  The  picture 
wasn't  so  good.  Everybody  recovered  almost 
immediately  and  hurried  toward  the  one  bright 
spot.  They  crowded  around  Patricia  shower- 
ing  her  with  congratulations. 

"Better  go  over  to  my  office,  little  gari," 
Abe  beamed  on  her.  "I  got  something  im- 
portant to  say  to  you.  young  lady.  Wells, 
I'm  sorry.  Hut  you  can't  be  good  all  the  time. 
I  can  sec  you  did  your  hi 

Wells  had  not  changed  his  position.  His 
chin  was  still  cupped  in  his  hand.  His  dis- 
reputable cap  was  concealing  one  ear. 

•'Didn't  care  for  the  picture,  did  you,  Abe?'' 

"Well,  you  got  to  admit  it  ain't  no  'What 
Price  Glory?1  And  it  cost  nearly  three  hun- 
dred thousand.     But  as  I  say — " 

"I  heard  something  about  you  wanting  to 
kill  this  fellow,  Halburton.  I  obeyed  orders 
and  slashed  him  to  the  bone." 

"Me?  Orders?  Xot  me.  Wells.  I  should 
rders  to  tlop  a  picture  to  kill  an  actor." 

"That's  what  I  thought."  Wells  said  gently. 
"Abe.  you  get  back  in  this  projection  room  in 
an  hour." 

"But  I  can't.  I  got  a  lot  of  business.  And 
what's  the  use?     I've  seen  everything." 

"You  get  back  here  in  an  hour  or  you're 
accepting  my  resignation." 

VWWGXER  stared  at  him.   Wells'  eyes  were 
**    flaming 

"Oh,  all  right,  Ross.    I'll  be  here  " 

He  hurried  over  to  his  office  and  almost  em- 
braced Patricia  who  sat  in  a  little  forlorn  heap 
in  a  big  chair. 

"My  dear  little  girl!"  he  boomed.  "It's 
going  to  cost  me  and  Monarch  a  lot  of  money, 
but  I  got  to  tell  you.  You're  great!  You're 
the  best  bet  in  pictures  today!  Now  don't 
worry  about  that  picture.  It's  only  a  program. 
Wells  fell  down  on  it.  But  you  stood  out  like 
a  sore  thumb.  Here's  a  contract  calling  for  one 
thousand  a  week  for  the  first  year,  two 
thousand  the  second.    Sign  here,  please. " 

"What  about  Don,  Mr.  Halburton,  Mr. 
Wagner?" 

"Don?     Oh,  your  husband.     Well,   I   tell 


3J 


SHE    DANCES    WITH    CHEERS 
IN    HER   EYES  ...  yet  she   has 

ffATHLi:TE9S   FOOT" 


SO       t]      -••   (■    itber-ligbt 
mi    I..  I    tb.it    f.iuU    111  I 

.o  i  •■-  -    .i    gb    1 1 ••    t  bxir. 

i  "oil  viv  tin-  laughing  In  tie 

lad]   didn't  have  a  <.ir<-  in 

tin-  world.    Hut,  while  her 

give    three  cheers   to 

e.u  b  BOW  partner  in  the 
dame,  then-'-  a  Ixtr  \ini\ier 
mi  her  happiness. 

\  t  tin-  back  of  her  mind, 
a  vague  WOrrj  Im-^iii-  to  iii- 
trn. I.  .    I  v .  n  a-  she  dreeaed 

for   the  part  \    -In     noticed   it 
>i:    \n  iinn.ilur.il.  nmi-t 

whiteness  between  her  little 

pink    toe-.      1 1   made  her  feel 

hardl]  dainty.  What  would 
her  partner  think  of  the 
twinges  she  feels  —  even 

i-t-c-h-i-n-^.''     ."she    bates    to 

a-k  even  her  dearest  friend 
about  it;  doean'l  know  what 
to  i  all  i  t.  though  thousands 
ot   similarly    immacula te 

p  in  p  I  e  li  a  \  e  this  same 
trouble — ''Athlete"-  Foot.*1 


Are  YOU  guarding  against  this  stealthy 
infection,  so  easily  tracked  into  homes? 

"Athlete's  Foot"  may  attack  any  of  n-* 
because,  unlike  mo-t  diseases,  it  persists  in 
the  cleanest  places.  A  tiny  vegetable  par.i- 
-ite.  tinea  trichophyton,  generally  causes  this 
ringworm  infection  and  it  thrives  on  the 
edges  of  showers  and  swimming  pools;  on 
locker-  and  dressing-room  floor-;  in  gym- 
na-ium-.  And  from  all  these  places  it  is 
continually  tracked  into  countless  homes. 
It  may  live  and  thrive  for  months  in  \<>ur 
own  spick-and-span  bathroom;  and  it  causes 


'Watch  for  these  distress  signals 

that  warn  of  "Athlete's  Foot" 

Though  "Atlilrtr'-  I"..!*'  i-  ..in-.-. I  t.\  thr  crrm  — 
tinea  trichophyton — its  rarly  Starrs  manitr-l  llirtn-rl\  r« 
in  several  diffrrrnt  \».*\-.  u-u.ill>  Iwtwrrn  tin-  i 
-omclnnc-  by  rrdnr--.  «>nirtmi.'-  \<\  Hkm*rr.irks.  ottrn 
ti v  tin\  itrhinc  lili*lrr«.  Thr  skin  may  turn  ulntr, 
thick  anil  m.n-t  or  it  mav  davdufi  drwir.*  \«iili  lutlr 
sralr*.  Any  one  of  these  calls  for  immediate  treatment'  If 
the  ca*e  appears  argrat  atc.l  and  dors  not  readib  >  irld 
to  Absorlnnr  Jr..  cmi-ult  farm  l"*VT  without  delay. 


Absorbine  I  Jf 

rot  TEARS  HAS  RELIEVED 
SORE  MUSCLES.  MUSCULAR 
ACMES.  ■■•IMS,  BURNS. 
CUTS.     SPRAINS.     ABRASIONS 


infection  and  re-infection  with  gnat  per- 
sistence. In  fael  the  I  .  >.  Public  Health 
Si  r\iee  has  reported  that  "prtAabfy  half  of 
all  adults  suffer  from  it  at  some  time." 

It  has  been  found  that  Absorbine  Jr. 
KILLS  this  ringworm  germ 

"Athlete's  Foot"  may  start  in  a  number 
of  different  m  ,i\  -.*  All  of  tin- in.  it  i-  agreed, 
are  general!]  caused  bi  tale  ringworm  ^rrm. 

\  nd  exhaustive  la  bora  tor  v  te-t-  ba\  e  -bown 
that  Absorbine  Jr.  penetrates  He-hlike  ti-- 
snes  deeplj  and.  wherever  it  penetrates, it 
kills  the  ringworm  germ.    Results  in  a< -tu.il 

cases  confirm  these  laboratory  teste. 

Examine    YOUR    feet   tonight 

It  might  not  be  a  bad  idea  to  examine 
yostr  feet  tonight  for  symptoase*  of  "  \th- 

lete  -    Foot."      \t    the   tir-t    sigSl   of  anv   one 

symptom,  begin  tin-  free  rase  of  sJjourbine 

Jr.  —  donee  it  mi  nn>rnin::  and  night  and 
after  every  exposure  of  your  Ixin  feet  on 
damp  floors. 

Ab.-orbine  Jr.  has  been  BO  effective  that 
substitutes  are  sometimes  offered.  Don't 
expert  relief  from  a  "ju-t  as  good.*1  Tin  r.  is 
nothing  else  like  \b-orbine  Jr.  I OU  Can  get 
it  at  all  drag  stores  fl.?5  B  bottle.  For  a 
free  sample,  write  W.  F.  Young,  Inc.,  I  To 
Lyman  Street,  Springfield,  Mass. 


YOUR  BEAUTY  SECRET  lies  within  this 

jar... The  glow  of  youth  from  a  clear, 

clean    skin  .  .  .  yours    if   you    gently 

cleanse   the   pores    morning    and  night 

# 
with   Krank  Lemon  Cleansing  Cream. 

/ 
A  universal  favorite  . . .  liquefies  instantly 

. . .  penetrates  deeply . . .  dissolves  impuri- 
ties .  . .  cleanses  thoroughly.  Unexcelled 
at  any  price.  $1  for  a  4  oz.  jar  . . .  Follow 
it  with  Krank  Astringent  Lotion,  so 
delightful  for  firming  the  skin ...  Mentho- 
Lemon  Foundation  Cream,  the  perfect 
powder  base . . .  and  the  softer,  smoother, 
clinging    Poudre    Krank...  5  shades. 

Send    50c  in   stamps   for    lovely   3-piece 
Acquaintance    Set    and    new    Beaut/ 
BooJr,  "Copfivafing  Loveliness."  Write 
Depl.     88,      Krank    Toiletries,     1885 
University  Avenue,  Saint  Paul,  Minn. 
»# 

\rO tl  K  (cleansing) 

LEliOM  C&MT1 


WATER  .  .  .  WHISPERING 
AT  THE  BOW.  .  .  BUBBLING 
AT  THE  BLADE 


Ahead  —  the  stream  is  glassy  smooth.  Astern 
—  it  ripples  shoreward.  You  gently  twist  the 
blade,  and  drift  into  the  shade  of  a  tree.  A 
bright-plumed  bird  takes  wing  —  as  silently 
as  jour  Old  Town.  Nothing  can  ever  equal 
the  quiet  of  a  canoe  —  the  peace,  and  solid 
contentment! 

Old  Towns  are  patterned  from  the  Indians' 
birch-barks.  They're  light,  graceful,  well-bal- 
anced, and  easy  to  handle.  Built  sturdy  and 
strong  for  years  of  use.  Free  catalog  shows  all 
canoe-types.  Also  rowboats:  dinghies;  big, 
fast,  seaworthy,  outboard  family-boats;  and 
speedy  step-planes.  Write  today.  Old  Town 
Canoe  Co.,  225  Main  St.,  Old  Town,  Maine. 

"Old  Town  Canoes" 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


you,  little  girl.     He's  a  fine  dancer  but  I'm 

afraid  he  ain't  cut  out  for  pictures.  In  this 
business  you  are  or  you  ain't.  And  Mr. 
Halburton  ain't. " 

"I  can't  sign  it,  Mr.  Wagner.  Thanks  just 
the  same."  She  got  up  from  the  chair.  "I 
got  to  find  him!"  she  suddenly  wailed.  "He's 
hurt  and  he  needs  me."  She  was  running 
through  the  doorway. 

T>ONT  sat  on  the  bed  in  his  hotel  room.  Well, 
■1-^thereit  was.  Hewasflaton  his  back,  flatter 
than  he  had  ever  been  in  his  life.  What  a 
job  Wells  had  done  on  him.  And  why?  He 
thought  the  guy  liked  him.  Well,  this  was  the 
end.  He'd  lost  Patricia.  He  deserved  to. 
What  a  swell-headed  ham  he'd  been.  Well, 
he  had  transportation  back  anyway.  He 
could  build  up  an  act. 

Maybe  the  picture  publicity  would  help 
him.  Maybe  he'd  pick  him  up  some  girl. 
But  it  would  take  him  months,  maybe  years, 
to  make  her  nearly  as  good  as  Pat.  His  face 
went  into  his  hands  and  tears  seeped  through 
his  fingers. 

The  telephone  rang.    It  was  Pat. 

"Oh,  Don!  I'm  so  sorry.  They  framed  you, 
dear.  I  want  to  talk  to  you.  Come  on  over." 
He  made  a  noise.  "Well,  wait  for  me.  I'll 
be—" 

He  hung  up  on  her. 

She  burst  into  the  room. 

"Hello,  Pat,"  he  grinned  crookedly.  "Well, 
you  did  great,  kid." 

"Don,  there's  been  a  mistake!    Oh,  Don." 

"Sure.    It  was  me." 

"What  are  you  going  to  do,  dear?" 

"Me?  I'm  going  back  to  Broadway.  Build 
up  another  act." 


"I'll  go  with  you — if  you  want  me — if  that 
Mercer  woman — " 

"She  gave  me  the  air." 

"She  would!  Listen,  Don,  I  hate  pictures. 
And  where  would  I  be  without  you?  You've 
got  to  take  me.  " 

"Gee,  kid.  You're  a  trouper.  But  I  couldn't 
do  that.     Why  I'm  a  flop!" 

"If  you  don't  take  me,  I'll  have  you  arrested 
for  desertion — " 

The  phone  rang  and  Don  picked  up  the 
receiver. 

"Tell  him  to  go  to  hell."  he  said  and  hung 
up.  "That  was  Wagner's  office.  I  suppose 
he  offered  you  a  contract  and  you  refused, 
and  now  he's  trying  to  sign  me  too,  so  you'll 
stay.    But  I'm  not  that  kind  of  a  guy!" 

The  telephone  rang  again  and  this  time 
Patricia  answered. 

"Yes,  he's  here. — What? — They  ran  the 
wrong  film  by  mistake! — He's  wonderful? — 
As  big  a  find  as  I  am?  Tell  that  to 
him." 

"Tell  him  to  go  to  hell,"  said  Don. 

"All  right. — A  thousand,  too? — Sure  we'll 
sign — Oh,  Don!" 


"T^\ID  you  catch  that  double  back  shuffle  of 
-'—'mine  in  my  solo?"  Don  was  asking 
Patricia  sternly  in  their  bungalow  three  hours 
later.  "And  that  wise-crack  about  woman  and 
trolley  cars?" 

"Oh,  Don,  darling,  darling!  Y'ou're  wonder- 
ful." 

"You  ain't  so  bad  yourself.  Baby.  I  told 
you  anybody  that  made  good  in  vaudeville 
could  make  good  any  place,  especially  in  pic- 
tures." 


Attar  of  Roses 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  49  ] 


approach.  And  then,  suddenly,  like  a  leaf  on 
a  racing  stream,  the  child  was  caught  up  by 
the  rush  of  the  swirling  crowd  and  thrown  into 
the  thick  of  it.  Thrown  into  the  thick  of  it 
with  such  force  that  she  landed  almost  directly 
in  front  of  the  tallest  man.  The  one  with  the 
curly  hair,  the  one  who  carried  the  roses. 
Panting  there,  in  front  of  him,  she  saw  that 
his  shoulders  were  extraordinarily  broad,  that 
his  chin  was  cleft,  that  his  eyes  were  smiling. 
And  then  she  heard  his  voice — a  rich,  deep, 
resonant  actor's  voice,  speaking. 

"Bless  my  soul!"  said  the  voice,  "I'm  about 
to  be  run  down — "   And — 

"Y'ou  sure  do  get  'em — "  answered  one  of 
his  shiny-hatted  followers.  "Even  the  little 
young,  thin  ones,  with  freckles!" 

Maty-  was  bewildered.  She  had  the  sensa- 
tion of  being  on  exhibition  in  a  goldfish  bowl. 
Once  she'd  dreamed  that  she  was  in  an  ex- 
press train,  and  that  she  hadn't  her  clothes  on. 
She  felt  like  that,  now.  Being  bewildered  she 
did  something  entirely  instinctive.  She 
reached  up,  with  a  thin,  not  too  clean  finger, 
and  touched  the  velvet  petal  of  a  flower. 

"Ain't — they — pretty — "  said  Mary-  Just 
that. 

The  tallest  man  bent  down.  Gallantly, 
there  on  the  corner  of  Broadway  and  Forty- 
second  Street.  He'd  been  put  to  it,  to  know 
how  to  dispose  of  the  flowers.  One  can't  toss 
aside,  lightly,  the  gift  of  a  theater  manager — 
and  a  thousand  fans. 

"You  like  them,  child?"  he  asked,  and 
again  Mary  was  conscious  of  the  deep, 
resonant  voice.  And  though  her  bewilder- 
ment was  growing,  she  answered. 

"They're  lovelier — than — heaven!"  said 
Mary. 

All  at  once  the  tallest  man  was  doing  a 
strange  thing. 

"Then,"  said  the  man,  "if  they're  that  lovely 
to  you  .  .  ."  He  was  stooping.  He  was, 
miracle  of  miracles,  laying  the  great  fragrant 


He  was  patting 


mass  in   the  child's  arms. 
Mary's  white  cheek. 

And  then  he  was  passing  on,  down  the 
street.  And  the  crowd — calling,  cheering, 
applauding,  was  closing  in  about  him.  And 
Mary  was  left,  standing,  with  a  hundred 
dollars  worth  of  blossoms  in  her  gray  clad 
arms. 

"Who  was  that?"  she  breathed,  to  the  street 
vender,  who  had,  earlier,  sold  her  the  Kewpie. 
"That  big  guy  with  the  curly  hair  and  the 
swell  voice?" 

The  vender  looked  at  her  with  eyes  in 
which  amazement  vied  with  a  certain  respect 

"Where  you  bin  all  your  life?"  he  asked. 
"That  was  Roland  Roundtree!  He  makes 
movies — out   in    California  .  .  ." 

The  name — it  didn't  mean  anything  to 
Mary  Smithers,  then.  But  the  eyes  did.  and 
the  hair  and  the  voice  .  .  .  And  the  kind- 
ness—the first  real  kindness  that  she  had  ever 
known.  The  name  didn't  mean  anything.  But 
Maty  was  still  holding  the  roses — holding 
them  as  tenderly  as  if  they  were  babies — 
when  the  superintendent  of  the  asylum  found 
her.  She  still  clutched  them  when  she  was 
led  back,  unrepentant,  through  the  midnight 
darkness  of  the  gray  gates  that  led  to  the  gray 
courtyard  of  the  gray  building. 


HPEX  years — a  trifle  more  than  ten  years! 
■*-  Ten  years  can  be  as  long,  almost,  and  as 
crowded  as  ten  centuries  .  .  .  Thrones  have 
fallen,  and  empires  have  turned  to  ashes  in 
far  less  time  than  a  decade.  And  especially 
have  thrones  fallen — and  empires  turned  to 
ashes — in  an  existence  that  is  bounded  by  the 
flicker  of  silver  sheets;  that  is  built  upon  the 
shifting  sands  of  public  favor. 

Empires  crumble  and  lesser  things  take 
place.  For  instance,  styles  change.  Styles 
change — in  clothes,  in  hairdressing,  even  .  .  . 
in  heroes.  .  .  . 


Photopi  u    -M  \<-  \/im    i  01    M  I \     1      1 


J  •> 


And  It's  ■  long  walk  from  •  ived 

courtyard  to  r  h.-  drawing  room  lik< 
■  >m  .i  shap 
heath  like,  trailing 
satin     Prom  plainness  and  poverty  !■■  '■■ 

l  the  lustei  of  dreams  thai  have  .ill  come 
true 


TTi  i|.|A  \\i  N  >!  >       i     •  talk 

A  *Mng  with  lirr  ilini  toi  She  was  talking,  and 
in  i.  i  -ting  of  her 

iirst  pi  in         H      ■  r>i  pit  tin  made 

i .  a  itai 
"  l  <  .  and  bei 

looked  nut  calmly,  from  beneath  level  hi 

"there  was  nine  a  m.in  of  the  exact  type  lh.it 
I   mean,  in  pi<  turn      Hi-,  n.ii'ie."     .\a>  there  a 

curious   throb   in   her   v<  ras   Roland 

Roundtree.    He  was  big  and  broad — " 
The  dire  toi  i  buckled 
l  ins,'-  he  said,  "is  the  year  of  our  Lord. 
I(»>l     I  hi-.  Miss  Smith-Elliott,  is  the  age  of 

the   talkie,    of    the    mike.      Roundtree  v 
there  iv.h  once  Such  a  person      Awfully  : 

lar,  too,  in  his  time.  Handsome,  as  I  re- 
member it.  in  a  big  m  I  of  way. 
Hut  he's  been  dead  — oh,  for  over  ten 
\cars— " 

Marye  Smith-Elliott  was  leaning  forward. 
"Dead,"  she  questioned.     "Hut — not  I'm 
sure — " 

"Well,"  the  director  wasn't  chuckling,  now- 
— there  was  something  too  oddly  tense  in  the 
-tar's  manner  "Well,  not  dead — speaking  in 
the  regular  funeral  and  buried  sense.  Hut 
dead  from  the  point  of  view  of  pictures.  His 
type  went  out  before  short  skirts  came  in — 
and  you  know  how  long  ago  that  was!  lie 
belonged  to  the  Bushman-Costello-Farnum 
era  Valentino  put  the  skids  under  those  big 
heavy  hoys.  Colman,  Barthelmess,  Novarro, 
Hen  I. yon — they  finished  the  job  .  .  ." 

"You  mean,"  said  Mane  Smith-Elliott, 
and  she  spoke  softly,  "that  he  just  dropped 
out5" 

"I  mean  exactly  such,"  said  the  director. 
"He  couldn't  make  the  grade.  And  then, 
finally,  there  was  talk  of  him  losing  a  lot  of 
money.  I  guess  he  went  market  mad.  And 
at  first  he  was  too  proud  to  take  character 
parts — he  just  wouldn't  believe  that  his  public- 
had  gone  tickle  on  him.  It  wasn't  till  after 
Valentino  made  The  Sheik'  that  he  go- 
to himself.  And  then  there  was  a  whole  new- 
crop  of  directors — and  there  weren't  even 
character  parts  left.  I  heard — "  the  director 
couldn't,  somehow,  meet  the  star's  eyes,  "that 
he  was  down  and  out.  Getting  an  occasional 
day's  work  as  an  extra  .  .  .  Vpu  know,  that 
I  thin;;." 

"Yea,  I  know."  said  Marye  Smith-KUiott. 
And  then,  "I  began  as  an  extra,  you  see."  she 
said  quite  casually.  "Not  here  in  Cali- 
fornia. In  New  York  I  wanted  to  be  in 
movies,  from  the  time  I  was  about  twelve.  I 
wanted  to  get  out  to  the  Coast — I  had  a  friend 
working  out  here.  Hut  it  took  me  so  long 
to  make  it  —  I  was  such  a  homelv  little 
brat—" 

"I  can't  imagine  that,"  said  the  director. 
He  spoke  quite  honestly.  "But  I  thought," 
he  added,  "that  you  came  to  California  via 
the  London  stag 

XXARYE  >MHH-ELLIOTT  rose  from  the 
"'deep  chair  in  which  she  had  been  sitting. 

"It's  a  good  line — I  encourage  people  to 
think  it."  she  said,  still  casually, 
actually.  I  did:  Hut  I  went  to  the  London 
stage  by  way  of  a  Broadway  chorus.  And  the 
chorus  came  after  a  Fort  Lee  studio.  And 
the  studio  came  after  a  New  York  orphan 
asylum." 

Sometime  it  would  be  a  good  story  to  tell — 
the  director  realized  that.  Just  now  all  of 
Hollywood  was  talking  of  the  slim,  calm,  dis- 
tinguished woman  with  the  inscrutable  eyes 
and  the  hyphenated  name.  All  of  Hollywood 
was  wondering  about  her  background,  her 
past.  This  bit  about  an  asylum — well,  it 
would  certainly  make  a  cocktail  hour  sensa- 


ii     open 


§ecret 


At  too  —  Iridio-platinun  wedding 
ring,  set  with  diamonds,  $165. 
Above  —  Groom's  Orange-Blossom 
wedding  ring  in  platinum,  from  $60, 
in  gold,  from  $18.  Bride's  Orange- 
Blossom    ring    in   platinum,   from 

$21.50,  in  gold,  from  $10 Many 

other  Traub  engagement  and  wed- 
ding   rings,    from  $10  to    $500. 

Tim  i  ii  l> 


•  The  whole  world  knows  what  your  wedding 
rings  mean  .  .  .  love  —  and  faith  —  and  a  new  life. 
As  beautiful,  as  traditional  as  orange  blossoms 
themselves,  Traub  rings  are  fitting  symbols  of  your 
trust  in  each  other  and  in  the  future. 

•  Skilfully  wrought  of  fine  metals,  engraved  or  set 
with  chosen  gems,  they  will  be  your  most  precious 
lifetime  possessions.  You  will  wear  them  always 
with  pride,  for  Traub  rings  are  brilliant  testimony 
to  your  good  judgment. 

•  Let  your  jeweler  show  you  rings  fashioned  by 
Traub's  master  craftsmen  .  .  .  rings  whose  beauty 
will  shine  always  as  proudly  as  on  your  wedding 
day.  Your  jeweler  has  so  many  things  you  will 
want  now. 

•  Write  for  our  booklet,  "Bridal  Etiquette."  It  con- 
tains lots  of  helpful  information  about  announce- 
ments, trousseaus,  and  the  Ceremony!  .  .  .  Traub 
Mfg.  Co.,  1933  McGraw  Ave.,  Detroit,  Mich., 
and  Walkerville,  Ontario.         Tr. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


At  breakfast, at  luncheon 
at  tea,  and  frequently  in  the 
evenind,  I  enjoy  an  ice  cold 
College  Inn  Tomato  Juice 


Cocktail 


FIBST   NATIONAL    STAR 


The  renowned  Bracer 
and  Appetizer 

ON  SALE  AT    DPUG    STORES     FOUNTAIN   GRILLS 
AND  ALL    FOOD   SHOPS 


pra  hwi  mil 

•Mafll 


COLLEGE  INN    FOOD   PRODUCTS  Co 

(Division  of    Hotel  Sherman  CoJ 
CHICAGO 


RUNNING  HOT  WATER 

Direct  From  Your  Faucet 

Continuously — Instantaneously 

A  necessity  wherever  there 
is  electricity,  either  direct 
or  alternating  current.  Slips 
on  and  off  any  faucet  very 
easily.  Will  heat  water  con- 
tinuously—  instantaneously. 


Price" 


.50 


WATER'    *<\<S^ 


Postage  prepaid  if  re- 
mittance accompa- 
nies order. 

Address  Dept.  37 
Electric  Co. 
:6eld  Ave. 
lew  Jersey 
AGENTS  WANTED 
In  All  Territories 


BjnJO  KWK  Elec 

865  Springfi, 
ifjljffu      Irvington,  Ne 


•   • 


ONE 

HOUR  EACH 
EVENING- 

10  Evenings 

Spend  that  much  time  on  a 

Buescher  Saxophone  and  you'll 

be  surprised y/hatyon  can  do.  In  go 

.  jyoucan  join  a  band  or  orchestra. 

Twoor  three  simple  lessonsgiveyou^w/fjfe 

easy  start.  But  only  with  a  Buescher  is  rapid 

frogress  assured.  Free  Trial.  Easy  Terms.  See  your 
ocal  Buescher  Dealer  or  send  postal  for  beautiful 
catalog.  No  obligation.  6  days'  free  trial.  Easy  terms. 
10  evenings  now  may  start  you  on  the  road  to  fame. 

BUESCHER 

Band  Instrument  Co.,  5 ,  i  g  Buescher  Blk.,  Elkhart,  Intl. 


B93 


SAFE  WAY  TO  END 

CORNS 

One  drop  deadens  pain,  removes  corn 

HERE   is  a  new  and  totally  different  way  to 
remove  a  corn  or  a  callus.    One  drop  dead- 


ens pain.    Acts  like   a  local   anaesthetic;   really 
amazing.    You  wear  tight  shoes,  walk,  dance. 

The  corn  shrivels  and  loosens.  You  peel  it  off 
with  your  fingers.     No  more  dangerous  cutting. 

Works  alike  on  any  corn  or  callus,  no  matter 
how  old  or  how  painful. 


tion.  It  would  be  a  good  story  to  tell,  some- 
time. But  at  the  moment  the  director  was 
embarrassed. 

"You  don't  say!"  he  ejaculated.  "Well — 
well  .  .  ."  he  fidgeted  with  his  watch  chain, 
"but,"  he  said,  after  a  moment  in  which  he 
fought  with  the  strange  embarrassment,  "but 
we  were  talking  business,  weren't  we?  We 
were  trying  to  decide  on  your  leading  man. 
He  must  be  a  big  chap,  of  course — the  captain 
of  industry  type.  Deep  voice,  and  all.  How 
about  George — " 

The  director  broke  off,  for  the  star  wasn't 
listening.  Absently  she  was  walking  over  to 
her  desk — this  informal  conference  was  being 
held  in  her  charming  study.  Absently  she 
was  bending  her  head  above  a  huge  cluster  of 
deep  red  roses  in  a  silver  vase. 

"There  was  once,"  she  said  slowly,  "a  man 
in  pictures — he  was  just  the  type  I  want. 
He'd  be — "  she  was  talking  gently,  as  if  to 
herself,  "he'd  be  older,  now.  His  hair  would 
be  getting  a  little  gray.  Perhaps  he'd  be — 
very  gray.  His  name."  she  turned  suddenly, 
eagerly,  to  the  director — it  was  as  if  the  sub- 
ject were  being  mentioned  for  the  first  time — 
"was  Roland  Round  tree!  You'll  find  him. 
won't  you?  Even  if  you  have  to  hire  a 
detective  to  comb  the  studios.  Two  detectives. 
Five  detectives/" 

TTHE  director  was  staring  at  her. 
■*-  "But,"  he  stammered,  "but  Miss  Smith- 
Elliott!  I  thought  you  were  only  kidding 
.  .  .  when  you  spoke  of  him,  before.  Why, 
that  chap's  a  has-been.  He's  been  out  of  the 
game  too  long.  And  this  is  a  big  feature. 
And  it's  your  first  as  a  star — its  success  means 
(you  mustn't  mind  my  saying  so)  a  lot  to  you. 
And  then,  too,"  he  hesitated,  floundering. 

"And  then,  too?"  prompted  the  star.  She 
still  spoke  gently. 

"Why,  his  voice,"  cried  the  director  in 
desperation.  "This  fellow,  Roland  Round- 
tree — how  do  you  know  that  he'd  go  over,  in 
talkies?  He  belongs  in  the  past.  He  never 
made  a  sound  picture.    How  do  you  know — " 

But  the  star  was  smiling  softly.  And  her 
eyes  were  looking  very  far  away.  Distances — 
oh,  I've  said  it  more  than  once!  They  can  be 
greater  sometimes  than  miles — the  miles  from 
New  York  to  London  .  .  .  and  back  again  'o 
New  York  .  .  .  and  from  New  York  to  Holly- 
wood .  .  .  Distance  can  reach  from  a  gray 
stone  building,  behind  a  gray  wall,  to  a  star's 
softly  shaded,  fragrant  room.  Don't  ask  how 
■ — such  tilings  do  happen  .  .  . 

But  Marye  Smith-Elliott  was  smiling. 

"Oh,  don't  worry  about  his  voice,"  she  said. 
"I'll  vouch  for  his  voice!  I  heard  him  speak, 
once — and  I've  never  forgotten  the  little  chills 
that  ran  up  and  down  my  spine  ..." 


a 


GETS-IT" 


World's 
Fastest  Way 


Heart  Throb 

I  am  today  a  successful  sports 
writer,  drawing  a  comfortable  salary 
and  looking  forward  to  a  very  bright 
future,  all  because  of  an  inspiration 
that  I  received  through  seeing  a  mo- 
tion picture. 

I  most  probably  would  have  still 
been  wallowing  in  the  gutter  of  life 
had  I  not  by  a  strange  coincidence 
entered  a  neighborhood  theatre  that 
was  running  a  then  current  attraction. 

I  had  never  before  done  anything 
in  the  way  of  writing  for  the  public, 
but  my  desire  was  so  great  and  my 
self-confidence  so  flattering  after  see- 
ing a  certain  photoplay  that  it  was  but 
a  short  time  before  I  had  established 
myself  as  a  reporter  for  one  of  the 
evening  papers  of  this  city. 

Life  is  funny,  isn't  it? 

S.  S.  Marlin,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


Brief  Reviews  of 
Current  Pictures 


i  sunt  si  BPICION     i 

I    L.r    Noi  i 
M ■  »u tin.-,  but  >  ■  •■!  u  get  \  .ut  money*!  worth 

v.      (-/an.) 

UP  K>K   Ml    UIUH  I  un- 

der tin-  nil  youth.") 

the  old  litem,     Mm.  Woman  .mil  Sin."    Lew  Ayra 
Km  struggle  through.  Pretty  badly 
worn  plot,    v 

UPTHE  RIVER— I-i.x.— The  Ik  prbon 

tnd  very  amusing.     Spei     i    !■  .  grand. 

(Dec) 

VIF.NNF.se  NIGHTS  —  Warnere,  —  The  beat 
operetta  In  recent  month*  -with  oh,  what  waltaeil 

•    nj    .in  I     \!    \  in  1    r    i  .r  i        ring    I 
songs.     ( iVoe.) 

VIRTUOUS  sin.    Mil    -Paramount.— Torrid 
!  Russia.   Kay  I 'r.un  i>  and  Walter  Huston 

.ir.-  simply  grand.     J' 

u  \r  M  Ksi  ,.\i.     \  perfei  t  men  . 

vrong.     Grueaome  and   silly,   by   turns,   this 
i    sad    disappointment.      June    Walker, 
(•age.  Robert   Montgomery  and   Rolx-rt  Anns 
have  tin-  ieada,  which  makes  it  all  doubly  distr. 

*W  \V  FOR  A  SAILOR— M-G-M.—  John  Gil- 
bert as  a  he-man  sailor,  with  rowdy  humor  and 
lowbrow  dialogue.     Never  a  dull  moment.     (.Dec.) 

WESTWARD  BOUN  D  —  Symlic.it.>.  —  Buffalo 
Hill.  Jr..  with  Ins  guns  and  bone  in  another  Western. 

(/•VV) 

WHITE  THUNDER.- The  eternal  triangle  story 

■  ic  magnificent  photography  show- 
ing the  terrifying  vast  idneas  of  Newfoundland. 
(Jfarcfc) 

WIDOW    KKOM    CHICAGO.   THE— Pint    N.i- 

ce   While  is  starred  in  this  conventional 
gangster  picture.      (Jon.) 

WILD  MEN  OF  KALIII VRI  -Travel  Film  — 
Mildlv  interesting  African  adventure— without  much 
faking.     (Feb.) 

\  wmi    DON,  THE— Richard  Talmadge  Pro- 
ductions,—  Richard  Talmadge  made  it  himself  and  it 
tern,  very,  very  meOo-drama. 

YELLOW  M  \SK.  THE— British  International.— 
An  attempt  to  mix  music,  comedy  and  melodrama. 
But  they  don't  mix.     (/Vi.) 

YOUNG     WOOOI  IV- British     International.— 

A  well-made  transcription  of  the  stage  play  ai>oui 
adolescent  love.    English  cast.    (Dec.) 

/WEI  HERZEN  IM  >i  T\KI  I  »..  Hearts  In 
Waltz    Timet — Associated    Cinema*.— -The    most 

charming   sound    picture    yet    sent    from    Germany. 
i nd  tuneful  operetta  in  the  Viennese  manner. 
Uan.) 


The  Hard-Boiled 
Samaritan 

[  CONTINUES  FROM  PAGE  "1  ] 


are  experts  in  profanity.  Wolheim  easily  be- 
came a  sensation  among  them.  There  was  no 
mule  driver  who  could  even  approach  him  as  a 
master  of  their  own  language. 

A  delegation  from  the  "better  element" 
asked  him  to  address  the  high  school  young- 
sters. The  mule  drivers  roared  at  the  thought 
of  his  talking  to  children.  He  talked.  In  tin- 
simplest  manner — in  words  which  are  described 
by  those  who  heard  them  as  "sweet" — he  told 
of  picture  people.  "They  are  no  worse  than 
others.  They  are  an  earnest  people.  It  is  hard 
to  be  a  hero  on  the  screen.  Be  kind  in  your 
thoughts  of  us." 

Louis  Wolheim:  A  gentle  sheep  in  a  wolf's 
mantle. 


Photoplay  BCaoazxni  rot  May,  1931 


(Permanently 


1  37 


Mcxtrrmx  •  •  . 
_  Uipernitoua.  • 
c/i air/.  •  •  •  • 


NOW 

A  $5.00  PRODUCT 
IN  A  NEW 

S I  00 

SIZE  PACKAGE 


TODAY,  ZIP  is  the  only  Epilotor 
available  for  actually  destroying 
hair  growths,  by  removing  the 
cause.  Tested  over  a  period  of  twenty 
years,  ZIP  has  met  every  requirement 
and  has  been  used  by  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  women  for  permanently 
destroying  hair  on  the  face,  arms,  legs 
and  underarms. 

Judge  Averill,  who  was  assigned  by 
the  U.  S.  Federal  Trade  Commission, 
reported:  "The  testimony  establishes, 
without  doubt,  the  fact  that  .  .  [ZIP) 
will  permanently  prevent  the  regrowth 
of  hair  .  .  ." 

ZIP  is  pleasant  to  use,  safe,  and  de- 
lightfully fragrant.  It  is  this  product 
which  I  use  at  my  Fifth  Avenue  Salon. 
It  acts  immediately  and  brings  lasting 
results.  Now,  in  its  new  package,  it 
may  be  had  at  $1.00. 

ITS  OFF  kawic  ITS  OUT 

To  permanently  destroy  hair  ask  for 
ZIP  Epilator—\TS  OFF  hecaux  ITS  OUT 
New  Package  $1.00 — de  luxe  size  $5.00 


J 


UST  spread  the  new  ZiP  Depila- 
tory Cream  over  the  hair  to  be 
removed,  rinse  off  with  water,  and 
admire  your  beautiful,  hair-free  skin. 
If  you  have  been  using  less  improved 
methods,  you  will  marvel  in  seeing  how 
long  it  will  be  before  even  the  slight- 
est semblance  of  hair  reappears — and 
then  only  fine  hair.  ZiP  Depilatory 
Cream  leaves  no  unpleasant  odor,  no 
irritation.  It  is  the  most  modern,  and 
relieves  you  of  every  fear  of  later 
stubble    or    stimulated    hair   growths. 

For  removing  hair  and  discouraging 

the  grouth,  ask  for 

ZiP  Depilatory  Cream.   Giant  tube  50c 


I 

L 


And  if  you  insist  on  using  the  harsh  razor  at  times.  .  .  .  take  this  advice  from  one  who  knows: 
Protect  the  skin  before  applying  the  razor.  Simply  spread  ZIP-SH  A  VE  over  the  surface  .  . .  and  shave. 
The  application  of  ZIP-SHAVE  not  only  speeds  up  the  razor,  but  overcomes  chap  as  well.    Tube.  50c 


562  FIFTH  AVE.,  NEW  YORK 

ZIP  Epilotor,  ZiP  Depilatory  Cream, 
and  ZIP-SHAVE  can  be  hod  of  all 
good  stores.  If  your  dealer  is  out  of 
stock,  use  the  coupon. 

For  personal  advice,  consultation  or 
demonstration,  all  without  charge, 
call  at  my  Salon.  Regular  treatments 
at  nominal  prices. 


ifihm  mm 


ENTRANCE  ON  46th  STREET 


SPECIALIST 


If  dealer  cannnt  supply  you  .  .  use  coupon 

MADAME   BERTHE  >>85) 

562  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York 

I  enclose  S Please  send  me 

~A  Package  of  ZIP  Epilator  ($1.00) 
^JA  Tube  of  Zi  P  Depilatory  Cream  (50c) 
|_A  Tube  of  ZIP-SHAVE  (50c) 

Name _ 

Address 

City  &  State 


i38 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


CORNS 


Pain  Ends  Instantly 

Put  one  on  and  in  one  minute  the  pain  is 
gone!  That's  how  quickly  Dr.  Scholl's 
Zino-pads  end  pain  from  corns  and  sore 
toes.  The  secret  of  this  magic  relief  is  the 
soothing  and  healing 
iiirilir.it ion  Zino-pads 
contain.  Their  cushion- 
ing, corrective  feature 
removes  the  cause — fric- 
tion and  pressure  of 
shoes.  Try  them! 

100%  SAFE ! 

Zino-pads  are  safe, 
sure.  Using  harsh 
liquids  or  p  1  a s t e rs 
often  causes  acid  burn. 
Cutting  your  corns  or 
callouses  invites  blood 
poisoning.  Zino  -  pads 
are  small,  thin, 
dainty.  Made  in  special 
sizes  for  Corns,  Corns 
between  toes, Callouses 
and  Bunions.  Sold 
everywhere — 35c   box. 

DfScholI's 

Zino-pads 

Put  one  on — the     pain  is  gone! 

FRECKLES 


Spring  Sun  and  Winds  Bring 

Out  Rusty  Brown  Spots.  How 

to  Remove  Easily 


This  is  the  time  to  take  special  care  of  your 
complexion  if  you  wish  it  to  look  well  the  rest  of 
the  year.  Spring  sun  and  wind  bring  out  freckles 
that  will  stay  all  summer  unless  removed  now. 
What  your  skin  needs  is  Othine-double  strength. 
A  few  nights'  use  of  this  dainty  white  cream 
will  show  you  how  easy  it  is  to  fade  out  those 
ugly-brown  spots  and  restore  the  natural  beauty 
of  your  skin. 

Be  sure  to  ask  for  Othine-double  strength  at 
any  drug  or  department  store.  Money  back  if  it 
does  not  remove  even  the  worst  freckles  and 
leave  your  skin  soft,  clear  and  beautiful. 


Those  Awful  Reporters 


I  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  41   j 


trying  to  figure  out  what  it's  all  about. 
Didn't  Daisy  know  a  reporter  who  said  he 
could  blow  the  lid  otT  Hollywood  with  Daisy's 
stolen  letters-*  Poor  Daisy!  She'll  live  and  learn 
but  she  will  probably  never  tell  again. 

If  Daisy  had  used  a  little  common  sense 
she  wouldn't  be  in  jail  today. 

BARBARA  LA  MARR  and  other  stars  who 
■Cwere  victimized  by  parasites  of  this  type- 
might  have  saved  themselves  a  lot  of  trouble 
by  laughing  and  saying:  "Go  ahead;  do  your 
worst." 

Clara's  action  in  having  Daisy  arrested 
complicated  the  whole  matter  and  gave  the 
newspapers  a  chance  to  print  intimate  stories 
of  Clara's  daily  routine  they  otherwise  would 
not  have  dared  print.  And,  of  course,  they 
could  then  print  all  the  letters  and  telegrams, 
too — for  the  court  action  made  them  part  of  a 
public  record. 

Clara  might  have  taken  the  monetary  loss 
and  said  nothing.  It  would  have  saved  her 
plenty  of  suffering.  And  it  would  have  saved 
additional  losses  in  the  matter  of  attorneys' 
fees. 

The  history  of  Hollywood  may  be  divided 
into  three  eras,  so  far  as  its  newspaper  history 
is  concerned. 

First  there  was  the  "Age  of  Innocence." 
Nobody  cared  what  the  little  band  of  actors 
in  Hollywood  was  doing,  or  not  doing.  They 
weren't  "class."  At  that  time,  more  than 
fifteen  years  ago,  two  famous  movie  stars 
fought  a  battle  in  a  hotel  room  because  of  a 
famous  director. 

One  girl  went  to  a  hospital  where  she  lay  for 
days  in  a  stupor.  The  other  never  survived 
the  horrors  of  that  fight.  For  years  her  white 
hair  had  to  be  hennaed. 

The  story  was  never  printed.  The  desk 
sergeant  who  sent  a  cop  to  quiet  the  two  girls 
merely  >ra\vned  when  reporters  asked  him 
"What's  new  tonight,  sarge?"  and  said, 
"Nothing,  boys,  nothing  at  all — couple  of 
movie  actresses  scratching  each  other's  eyes 
out  over  some  director." 

"NTOW  do  you  think  that  story  would  be 
■L^  played  up  today?  Of  course  there  would  be 
streamers  across  the  front  page,  pictures  of  the 
girls  in  many  poses,  pictures  of  the  director 
and  his  wife  and  his  ex-wife,  and  probably  a 
confession  story  from  one  of  the  women, 
which  naturally  would  be  written  by  a  hard- 
boiled  re-write  man. 

But  suddenly  movies  gained  importance — 
and  so  did  the  stars.  You  were  led  to  believe 
little  Hazel  Happy — and  most  of  the  girls  had 


names  like  that — lived  on  dew,  cream  puffs 
and  sunshine.  She  never  went  anywhere  with- 
out her  mother,  and  in  her  spare  time  she 
modeled  in  clay  or  painted  miniatures.  Pic- 
tures proved  these  stories  to  be  true. 

And  so  came  the  "Age  of  Bunk." 

There  was  bound  to  be  a  reaction  from  this 
publicity. 

One  morning  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Public  took  their 
paper  off  the  front  porch  to  read  that  Holly- 
wood was  a  sink  of  iniquity,  a  hot-bed  of  vice, 
the  Sodom  and  Hokumorra  of  America. 

Murders  kept  Hollywood  on  the  front  pages 
for  the  next  two  or  three  years — which  brings 
us  to  the  "Age  of  Scandal." 

A  "czar"  was  appointed  to  keep  good  be- 
havior in  the  ranks  of  the  boys  and  girls  of  the 
lilms.  Producers  put  morality  clauses  into 
all  contracts.  Press-agents  worked  over-time 
to  cheat  reporters  of  choice  bits  of  scandal. 

I  lived  in  Hollywood  during  the  Age  of 
Scandal.  The  "Fatty"  Arbuckle  trial  was,  in 
reality,  a  dreary,  sodden,  and  more  or  less 
prosaic  court  proceeding  that  proved  nothing 
except  that  the  comedian,  an  ex-barboy,  was 
at  a  party  where  Virginia  Rappe  received  the 
injury  that  caused  her  death. 

Incidentally,  Arbuckle  was  the  only  movie 
star  who  was  actually  ever  banned  from  the 
screen  because  of  scandal — and  that  was  done 
by  the  moving  picture  organization  itself,  not 
by  the  public.  The  heads  of  the  picture  com- 
pany figured  it  would  be  better  to  lose  the 
money  tied  up  in  "Fatty's"  pictures  than  have 
him  a  constant  eyesore  in  the  Hollywood 
scene.  If  Arbuckle  made  a  picture  today  his 
old  following  would  clack  with  delight. 

f'^XE  bleak  rainy  February  day  the  Los 
^^ Angeles  newspapers  carried  the  story  that 
William  Desmond  Taylor,  a  moving  picture 
director,  had  been  found  dead  "from  stomach 
trouble"  in  his  home  in  Alvarado  Street.  Later 
editions  revealed  that  the  stomach  trouble 
had  been  induced  by  a  bullet. 

That  murder  had  everything — mystery, 
glamour,  famous  names,  suspense,  romance. 
It  reached  into  the  underworld  of  dope.  It 
spread  into  the  mansions  of  great  stars.  It 
went  back  into  the  strange  life  of  the  murdered 
man  whose  life  was  a  mosaic  of  adventure. 

Mabel  Xormand  had  said  goodnight  to 
Taylor  an  hour  before  he  was  shot,  and  had 
gone  home  in  her  car. 

Man-  Miles  Minter,  beautiful  young  blonde, 
was  brought  into  the  case  when  her  lingerie 
was  found  in  Taylor's  home — and  her  love 
letters  were  taken  from  the  toe  of  an  old  boot. 

Harry    Peavey,     Taylor's    colored     valet, 


USE    SOME   MONEY? 

Of  course  you  can!  Some  new  clothes,  or  a  vacation  trip,  or  that  pesky 
payment  on  the  car. 

Photoplay  offers  you  $5,000  in  seventy  cash  prizes.  The  new  Cut' 
Puzzle  Contest  starts  in  the  June  issue.  It's  your  chance  to  cash  in  on 
your  knowledge  of  the  stars ! 

Cut  out  the  various  parts  of  the  scrambled  faces,  reassemble  them,  name 
the  players  correctly.   As  easy  as  that — but  a  fascinating  game.  Watch  for 

The  June  PHOTOPLAY 

On  sale  everywhere  May  15 


PH0T0P1  ay    M  \i.\/im:   i  01    M  iV.    1       1 


1  39 


blubbered  ova 

e  pudding  I  aylot  had  l"\  ed 
I  dwaf  I  ic  >lm t  i"t'>  formet  \ ale) 

and  friend,  bad  vanished,  and  i<>  tlu-<  da)  bi 

■  i  been  found. 

An    ftbandOl  I   ill.  I     1  .miirr, 

i  ■ ith  a  grow n  daughter 

to  I  loll)  a  ver  every  angle 

oi  the  si  a  rote  thousands  of 

OOl  only  .ilioiit  the   I  is  lor 

murder,  but  tin  about  all   tin    stand 

i|m  rs  all  o\.  r  tin    i  mmtry 

printed  cartoona  that  dealt  savagely  with 
nam 

PR£SS-A<  repdaal,  barred  km 

[Hirti-r^  from  tin-  studios,  and  caused  stories 
printed  which  declared  thai  the  scandal- 
writer-,  were  liars,  nonheads,  and  paid  propa 
gand 

I  vai  was  on  in  ean 
The  pictures  of  Mabel  Norm. mil  and  Mary 
Miles  Minter  were  banned  from  the  screen  in 
small  towns  The  Palace  or  Grand  Theater 
announced  that  citizens  would  not  be  offended 
by  the  sight  of  Mary's  blonde  curls  or  Mabel's 
pert  grin.    Hut  in  Chicago  pink  permits  wen 

granted  the  Minter  pictures — meaning  that 
only  adults  could  go  to  the  theater  and  Man  h 
for  signs  of  dissipation   in   that  bland,  girlish 

Shades  of  Harnum  and  Ilailcy! 

Ifut  let  it  he  laid  that  Mary  Miles  Minter 
and  .Mattel  Xormand  were  not  shunted  off  tin 

l   as  a   direct    result   of   the  Taylor 
Mabel    Normand's   days    were   already    num- 
bered. 

"Imagine  anyone  being  in  love  with  poor 
Mabel,"  said  Arbuckle  at  the  time  Mabel  said 
Taylor  was  in  love  with  her.  "AH  the  old 
Sennett  gang  has  had  a  tongfa  break 
me,  then  Mabel.  Sometimes  I  think  our  gang 
is  hoodooed." 

A  movie  mamma  and  twenty  pounds  kept 
Mary  Miles  Minter  from  collecting  her 
SS.0O0  a  week  from  Paramount.  Mary  was 
the  victim  of  her  mother — she  wasn't  allowed 
to  eat  the  things  she  wanted  to,  go  to  the  places 
she  wanted  to,  nor  see  the  people  she  wanted 
to. 

Result — she  followed  Taylor  about,  making 
a  scandal  target  of  herself. 

Mary  was  really  a  romantic  little  girl. 
Standing  on  her  veranda  one  night,  she  looked 
wistfully  over  the  tops  of  the  purple  hills  and 
murmured,  "The  Minter  women  love  but 
once." 

The  Minter  woman  started  to  cat  after  a 
fight  with  mamma,  put  on  twenty  pounds, 
went  to  Paris  and  wrote  finis  to  her  career. 

The  Taylor  story  had  taught  newspaper 
owners  that  movie  scandal  sold  papers  as  no 
other  news  did.  Many  reporters  wrote  only 
the  news — the  "spot"  news — the  news  of 
police  court  hearing  or  Superior  Court  trial, 
such  as  the  episode  of  Valentino's  first  marriage 
to  Natacha  Rambova — but  a  few  went  out  of 
their  way  to  "make"  news.  These.  I  may  say- 
in  passing,  didn't  last  long  as  reporters. 

HERE'S  an  instance.  A  number  of  reporters 
learned  that  a  certain  actress  had  been  re- 
jected by  Douglas  Fairbanks  as  his  leading 
lady  because  she  had  square  hips.  They  went 
to  see  Doug's  press-agent,  and  asked  if  the 
story  were  true. 

"Yes,"  said  the  press-agent,  Mark  Larkin. 
"It's  true.  I'm  sorry.  But  if  you  print  that 
story  you  are  going  to  ruin  the  girl's  screen 
career,  which  means  her  life.  You  can  make  a 
funny  story  of  the  'girl  with  the  square  hips' — 
but  what  will  it  get  you?  A  raise?  Xo. 
Honorable  mention?  Hardly.  Nothing  but  a 
bright  paragraph." 

The  story  was  never  printed. 

Pola  Negri,  new  to  Hollywood,  once  made  a 
scene  when  Harry  Carr  of  the  Los  Angeles 
Times  walked  on  her  set.  She  cried  she 
would  not  work  until  "that  pig"  was  off  the 
field. 

Harry  Carr  heard  the  epithet,  and  Harry 


TUFTED 

f)ro- j>fuj- Cac -tic 


IF  you  arc  open-minded  on  the  subject  of  which  tooth  brush  is  best 
for  you,  these  may  be  the  must  important  2  1  5  words  you  have  ever 
read.   So  vital  is  a  healthy  mouth  in  preventing  disease. 

We  make  two  styles  of  tooth  brushes,  illustrated.  Both  were  de- 
signed by  leading  dental  authorities.  The  Tufted  Pro-phy-lac-tic  is 
medium  size.  The  Masso  Pro-phy-lac-tic  is  the  newest  small  t\pe. 
We  are  glad  to  sell  either,  although  our  profit  00  the  Masso  is  slightly 
bugei  because  it  contains  less  bristle. 

The  Masso  is  a  wonderful  brush  for  those  who  will  clean  teeth  three 
minutes  by  the  clock,  as  dentists  direct,  but  we  cannot  conscientiously 
recommend  it,  if  you  brush  your  teeth  in  a  hurry.  Instead,  our  pro- 
fessional advice  is  to  use  a  brush  large  enough  to  clean,  polish,  and 
massage,  in  the  reduced  time.  Obviously,  hasty  brushers  will  get 
more  and  better  cleaning  with  a  brush  that  has  more  bristle. 

Bi'v  a  Tufted  Pro-phv-l.ic-tic  and  use  it  for  just  one  week.  See  the 
improvement.  Note  how  much  better  it  does  the  job.  How  thoroughly 
and  yet  how  quickly!  Observe,  too,  how  the  famous  tufted  toe  reaches 
and  cleans  the  molars  (back  teeth). 

No  matter  what  brush  you  are  using  now,  try  a  Tufted  ....  You  will 
thank  us  for  the  suggestion.  Pro-phy-lac-tic  Brush  Co.,  Florence,  Mass. 


MASSO 

pro  ■  pfuj-  Cac  ■  tic 


140 

Does  your  Skin 

invite 

Caresses 
? 


This  one  essential  cream  helps 
achieve  and  retain  skin  beauty 

A  CLEAR,  clean  skin  is  the  first  rule  of  charm 
and  the  use  of  Boyer's  Skin  &  Pore  Cleanser 
is  an  important  step  for  every  woman  interested 
in  her  looks. 

This  utterly  new  cream  liquefies  at  body  heat  and 
penetrates  to  the  depth  of  the  pores,  floating  out 
dirt  and  neutralizing  skin  ageing  acids.  Then  pores 
become  sweet  and  clean,  grow  finer,  and  a  new, 
smooth  skin  beauty  begins. 

Never  will  you  again  use  the  heavy,  old-fashioned 
creams,  and  you  will  learn  why  women  who  could 
pay  $5.00  for  a  jar  of  cream  really  prefer  the  75c 
jar  of  Boyer's  Skin  &  Pore  Cleanser.  It  is  pure 
and  guaranteed  not  to  grow 
hair. 

If  your  druggist  cannot  supply 
you,  order  a  75c  jar  from 
2700  South  Wabash  Avenue, 
Chicago.  It  is  guaranteed  to 
please  you. 


BOYEH 

^dhe  Society   tfa/tfumjeuA 


Any  PHOTO 

ENLARGED 


98 


Size  16x20  Inche9 

Same  price  for  full  , 
length  or  bast  form,  I 
jrroups,  landscapes,  I 
pet  animals,  etc..  or  ' 
enlargement 3 of  any  I 
jtart  of  group  pic- 
ture. Safe  return  of  your  own 
original    photo    guaranteed. 

SEND  NO   MONEY 

Just  mail  photo  or  snapahotf  any 
sizejandwitbm  aweck  youwill 
receive  your  beautiful  lit"e-like 
enlarpemen  t  size  l<;::110irj. guar- 
anteed fadeless.  I'ay  potman 
9Sc  plus  postago  or  aend  $1.00 
with  order  and  we  pay  postage. 

Special  Free  OfferS 

enlargement  we  will  send  FREE 

a  band-tinted  miniature  repro- 
duction of  photo  sent.  Take  ad- 
vantage now  of  this  amazing: 
o2«ir--aeml  your  photo   today. 

UNITED  PORTRAIT  COMPANY 

90O  West  Laxe  Street.  Dept.E-131.  Chicago.  III. 

PfiEnY  ANKLES  $5.^ 

AND    CALVT/ST      perpai*^ 

Dr.  Walter's  Special  Ankle  Hands — ex- 
tra live  flesh  colored  Pant  rubber,  sup- 
port and  shape  ankle  and   calf   while 
reducing  tnein.  Perfect  fitting.  Can  be 
worn  under  hose — or  worn  at  night 
— ndnoi  1  ""'  ibapM  win!.-  you  ileen.  You  can 
note  improv.-m.iit'  In  ■hapi   01    u&ku  »t  onco. 
ReUav*  tweUinj  and  VmrlMM  rcina. 
In    QTOMrlni    aend    ankle  and    call   measure, 
and     cii«<-k     or     BOOB*     ores*      (no     cash) 
or  pay  postman.      Write  for  booklet. 

Dr.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER 

389Fifth  Avenue       NewYorkCity 

Particulars  of  Dr.  Esenwein's  famous  forty - 
[anon  course  in  writing  and  marketing  of  the 
Short-Story  and  sample  copy  of  The  Wiuter'3 
Monthly  free.    Write  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL 
Dept  95.  Springfield,  Mass. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 

Carr  is  mighty  in  Hollywood  and  carries  a 
big  stick.  What  would  he  do  to  Pola?  Every 
one  shuddered.  A  bright  publicity  agent, 
though,  thought  he  knew  how  to  handle  .Mr. 
Carr.  He  called  on  the  newspaper  man  and 
explained  first  that  Pola  was  very  tempera- 
mental, and,  frothed  at  the  mouth  whenever 
a  stranger  appeared  on  the  lot,  that  she  knew 
little  English  and  so  found  it  hard  to  express 
herself,  and  that,  anyway,  she  had  paid  Mr. 
Carr  a  big  compliment  by  calling  him  a  pig, 
for  in  Poland  a  pig  isn't  just  a  pig  but  a  term 
of  endearment.  In  fact,  a  pig  in  Poland  is  as 
sacred  as  a  cow  in  India. 

/T\RR  wasn't  fooled,  but  he  liked  the  press- 
^— 'agent's  ingenuousness.  He  let  the  incident 
drop  and  wrote  a  "rave"  about  Pola. 

I  don't  mean  to  say  that  motion  picture 
people  are  entirely  to  blame  for  the  strained 
relations  between  the  Fourth  Estate  and  the 
Fourth  Industry.    Not  at  all. 

It  is  no  secret  that  some  newspaper  men  and 
women  have  grafted  money  from  some  of  the 
stars,  have  forced  friends  of  theirs  into  fat 
jobs,  and  have  otherwise  misused  them. 

It's  pretty  shoddy. 

Sometimes  a  reporter  is  innocently  bought 
by  the  astute  picture  people.  I  knew  a  naive 
young  writer  who  sold  a  story  to  a  big  film 
company.  His  daily  column  was  lush  with  the 
activities  of  the  company  that  had  bought  his 
story. 

It  was  never  made  into  a  film  and  to  this 
day  he's  probably  wondering  why! 

A  newspaper  woman  threatened  to  write 
some  stuff  about  Nancy  Carroll  that  would 
make  her  suffer.  Nancy  had  received  word 
from  the  higher-ups  at  Paramount  that  she 
wasn't  to  feature  the  fact  that  she  is  the  mother 
of  little  Patricia  Kirkland.  Bad  publicity, 
they  said.  They  pointed  out  that  Nancy  was 
supposed  to  be  an  ingenue  and  mustn't  be 
shown  as  a  mother.  So  Nancy  up  and  said 
"no"  in  perfectly  good  Irish  when  the  writer 
asked  for  a  picture  of  herself  and  Patricia. 

The  writer  wrote  a  story  slyly  digging  at 
Nancy's  attitude  and  mentioned  the  fact  that 
royalty  isn't  bashful  when  it  comes  to  showing 
their  offspring.  But  royalty  in  Hollywood 
and  Europe  is  something  else  again.  The 
kings  and  queens  over  there  do  not  get  kicked 
off  the  throne  unless  there  is  a  war.  In  Holly- 
wood any  movie  queen  can  be  uncrowned  by  a 
little  adverse  publicity. 

Hollywood  has  its  newspaper  chiselers  but 
it  also  has  newspaper  men  and  women  it  can 
trust.  Most  of  these  chiselers,  by  the  way, 
are  not  hired  by  real  newspapers.  They  are 
the  fringe  of  the  Fourth  Estate,  "free  lances," 
or  connected  with  some  obscure  sheet  that  is 
trying  to  come  to  life  by  dishing  dirt. 

The  Age  of  Scandal  is  dying.  The  edge  has 
been  taken  off  the  novelty  of  Hollywood 
scandal.  The  Clara  Bow-Daisy  DeVoe  trial 
was  important  only  to  a  few  newspapers. 
The  majority  dismissed  it  with  a  few  para- 
graphs daily — in  the  East. 

IT  would  take  as  big  a  story  as  the  Taylor 
murder  to  bring  back  the  old  days  and  such  a 
story  happens  only  once  in  a  decade  or  two. 

One  of  the  never-ceasing  battles  between 
newspaper  women  and  movie  stars  is  about 
beauty. 

"Beautiful,  but  Lord,  how  dumb!"  a  star 
is  dismissed  by  a  sob  writer. 

"She  looks  a  fright,"  come  back  the  boo'ful 
stars. 

The  it  of  movie  stars  is  far  more  important 
than  their  Intelligence  Quotient,  and  editors 
hire  women  to  write,  not  pose. 

Having  said  all  this  it  leaves  us  just  where 
we  started.  Movie  stars  will  continue  to  be 
good  news  for  the  papers  until  newer  idols 
appear. 

Maybe  we'll  have  radio  artists  on  the  griddle 
next. 

And,  as  for  newspapers — they'll  continue 
to  print  all  the  news  of  Hollywood,  good  or 
bad,  so  that  a  bright  fillip  will  be  added  to 
your  morning  oatmeal! 


Pleasant 
Breath 

One  way  to  be  sure  you  have  it 

THE  way  to  make  sure  you  are  not  guilty  of 
bad  breath  is  to  always  carry  a  box  of  May- 
Breath  with  you.  May-Breath  is  the  name  of 
little  tablets  that  instantly  purify  and  sweeten 
the  breath.  Odors  from  all  such  causes  as  drink- 
ing, smoking,  and  eating  vanish  immediately. 
Never  go  where  you  will  come  in  close  con- 
tact with  others  without  first  slipping  a  small 
tin  of  May-Breath  into  your  vest  pocket  or  purse. 

May-Breath 

(TABLETS) 


cSw/YJor#->  COLOR 

GFAYHAII 


It  is  not  the  vogue — color 
it.  B.  Paul's  Henna 
Compound  colors  your 
gray  hair  in  ONE  BRIEF 
APPLICATION.Thismarveloushair- 
coloring  preparation  created  and  sold 
for  15  years  by  Mon.  B.  Paul— so  simple  to  use 
—coloring  so  beautifully.  Unique  method  of 
using  confines  color  where  wanted  (does  not 
run).  Imparts  color  to  your  hair  immediately 
—no  matter  how  gray  or  faded  your  hair  is. 

14  Shades,  Black  to  Blonde,  Price  $1.10  P.P. 


Si  Price 


Save  over 
TS-Rock  Bottom 
Price  on  all  standard  office 
models— Underwood,  Reming- 
ton. Royal,  ete. -Easiest  termi  ever  of- 
fered. Also  Portables  at  reduced  prices. 

SEND  NO  MONET 

All  late   models  completely    renniahed^ 
like  brand  new.  Fuilv  Guarantied. 
Sent  on    19  days'  trial.    Send    No 
Money.  Biu  fr  ree  Catalog:  ehowa  actu- 
al machines  in  full  colors.  Greatest  bar- 
gains ever  offered    Send  at  once  1! 

International  Typewriter  Exch,,  Dept.  552,  ch*ca*©> 


day 

Trial 


SORE    FEET 


Use  Cal-O-Cide  on  sore,  tender,  swollen, 
burning,  aching  feet  and  get  relief  In 
one  minute.  Draws  pain  and  inflam- 
mation right  out.  Safe,  soothing,  cooling. 
Walk.  run.  dance.  Wear  shoes  you  like. 
Guaranteed.  35c  at  all  druggists.  Send 
postcard  for  free  book  "Care  of  Feet." 
Medco  Co.,  Dept.  L-5,  Dayton,  Ohio 


Calocide  foot  remedy 


STOPS 


FALLING 
HAIR 

LUCKY  TIGER,  a  proven  trermieide, 
\  corrects  dandruff  and  scalp  irritations. 
.World's   largest    seller— Money- 
it  Back  Guarantee.  Safe  for  adults 
b/l^al  and  children.     At  all  Barbers, 
Drusnjists  and  Beauty  Parlors. 


LUCKY  TIGER 


Photoplay  Magazine  roi  May,  r    I 


141 


Connie  &  Lilyan 


;  ROM  PAQI    31  I 

respective  boy  friends  tnd  husbands  filed  In 
The  proud  In-autu^  had  t<>  give  themselves  up 
. Mii-rall.  you  do  need  men  for  dancing  paitnen 

(.'l.iru  How  baa  never  been  <>n<-  of  ukx  I 
in>  of  the  moment    Poor  Clara,  even  though 
she  prefera  the 
hiarts  utd  studio  workers  to  ilu-  aocially  elite, 

ahe  wouldn't  have  much  of  I  I  h.inci-  to  be  --mart 

11  ahe  chose. 

Occasionally  ahe  went  to  Montmartre  for 
lunch  when  that  historic  cafe'  »a-*  the  hub  of 
tlu-  MHi.il  wheel,  l>ut  almost  invariably  ber 
father  trailed  her  there  and,  standing  in  the 
doorway  in  shirt  aleeves,  tie  less,  collar  open 
at  the  throat  and  hair  uncombed,  beckoned  to 

iur  before  all  that  will  drisscd  crowd.     Clara 

bad  to  respond. 

PERHAPS  two  of  tin-  most  beautiful  women 
-*-  in  Hollywood  are  Ann  Harding  and  Eleanor 

Iman.     I  In-sc  girls  an-,  from  a  atandpoint 

of  mold  of  feature,  anneal  perfect.  Yet  they've 
never  played  tin-  game  and  never  will.     Too 

simple  in  taste,  too  frank,  too  little  intereste 
in  the  spotlight,  they're  just  not  the  type 
Evelyn  Brent  always  occupied  the  same  table 

at  the  Montmartre.  At  the  Embassy  she  has 
an  especial  place.  Hut  she  does  not  play  the 
game  cither.  She  lunches  there  because  she 
BCCS  her  friends.  And  she  also  likes  l:'K), I  food 
In  a  community  as  small  as  Hollywood,  with 
so  many  beautiful,  ambitious  women,  it  is  in- 
evitable that  things  get  mixed  up.     One  of  the 

catastrophes  is  for  two  "best  dressed  women 
on  the  screen"  to  appear  at  the  same  function. 
wearing  gowns  exactly  alike.  When  the  Em- 
bassy Club  had  its  formal  opening,  five  beauties 
appeared  in  that  many  gowns  which  were  iden- 
t  ical.  And  were  there  dark  looks  passed  among 
them?  Needless  to  say.  the  designer  who  sold 
the  five  beauties  the  five  identical  dresses 
bought  a  one  way  ticket  to  Tasmania. 

\>  we  have  already  seen,  quarrels  are  not  un- 
known among  these  beauties  of  the  moment. 
There's  the  case  of  Dolores  Del  Rio  and  l.upe 
Yelez.  Dolores  wis  a  reigning  beauty.  I.upe 
wasn't,  for  l.upe  can't  be  dignified  enough,  so 
it  seems  Dolores  rather  rit/.ed  her  fellow  coun- 
try-woman when  Lupe  first  arrived,  l.upe  re- 
taliated by  imitating  her  in  a  priceless  fashion. 
One  of  the  times  when  l.upe  was  at  the  Em- 
bassy, she  boked  across  the  room  and  saw  I.il- 
yan  Tashman  wearing  long  kid  gloves.  Lupe. 
who  didn't  have  any.  wrapped  napkins  around 
her  arms.  Lilyan,  seeing  this,  obeyed  an  old 
Spanish  custom  and  offered  Lupe  her  gloves. 
Lupe  accepted  and  they're  not  exactly  good 
pals  any  more. 

CPF.AKIXC,  of  long  gloves.  Gloria  Swanson 
'■Avas  the  very  first  beauty  to  appear  in  them 
when  they  made  their  fashion  reappearance. 
What's  more,  she  wore  them  all  evening  and 
did  not  remove  them  during  dinner. 

It  is  difficult  to  say  just  which  one  has  the 
brightest  spotlight  at  present  writing,  but  I  be- 
lieve Constance  Bennett  is  the  most  glamorous, 
the  most  sparkling  beauty  of  the  moment.  Al- 
though there  are  others  with  the  same  peculiar 
Bare,  Connie  has  center  stage  right  now.  Who 
will  be  next?    Here's  a  nomination — Ina  Claire. 

She's  In-en  the  queen  of  Broadway.  When 
she  tirst  arrived,  Hollywood  couldn't  see  her 
for  sour  apples.  Then  she  went  away,  made  a 
swell  picture  in  New  York  and  a  sensational 
statement  to  the  press  in  Chicago.  Now.  back 
in  Hollywood,  she  is  doing  the  smart  things  and 
being  seen  at  the  smart  places.  But  she  has  a 
new  idea.  Whereas  Tashman  has  never  worn 
the  same  dress  twice.  Claire  has  been  seen  at 
the  Embassy  in  but  one  costum°  ?  dark  suit 
trimmed  with  red  fox  that  she  wore  in  "The 
Royal  Family  of  Broadway.  "  This  does,  at 
least  attract  attention. 

So  maybe  Ina's  next.    Who  knows? 


Here's  Simple  Way 

To  Actually  Get  Rid 

Of  Arm  And  Leg  Hair 

That  Completely  Banishes  Coarsened  Re-growth 


By  a  total  tack  of  stubbte  win  can  fcrl  the  dif- 
ference between  this  and  old  MM, 


A  Discovery  That  is  Proving  to  the 
Wonder  of  the  Cosmetic  World  That 
Hair  Can  Not  Only  Be  Removed 
Instantly,  But  Its  Reappearance 
Delayed  Amazingly. 

A  new  way  of  removing  arm  and  leg  hair 
has  been  found  that  not  only  removes  every 
vestige  of  hair  instantly,  but  that  banishes 
the  stimulated  hair  growth  thousands  of 
women  are  charging  to  less  modern  ways. 
A  way  that  not  only  removes  hair,  but  de- 
lays its  reappearance  remarkably. 
It  is  changing  previous  conceptions  of  cos- 
meticians about  hair  removing.  Women  are 
flocking  to  its  use.  The  discovery  of  R.  C. 
Lawn-,  noted  beauty  scientist,  it  is  different 
from  any  other  hair  remover  known. 

What  It  Is 

It  is  an  exquisite  toilet  creme  resembling  a 
superior  beauty  clay  in  texture.  You  sim- 
ply spread  it  on  where  hair  is  to  be  removed. 
Then  rinse  off  with  water. 


Xot  Pff/w  is  i/ifJb>tl  fear  ot  coarsened  rr-rrouth 

biJ'ushtd   bit   artuul   reappearance   of  hair    is 

slowed  amazingly. 

That  is  all.  Every  vestige  of  hair  is  gone: 
so  completely  that  even  by  running  your 
hand  across  the  skin  not  the  slightest  trace 
of  stubble  can  be  felt.  And— the  Ttapptar- 
ance  of  thai  hair  is  delayed  surprisingly! 
When  re-growth  finally  does  come,  it  is 
utterly  unlike  the  re-growth  following  old 
ways.  You  can  feel  the  difference.  No  sharp 
stubble.  No  coarsened  growth. 
The  skin.  too.  is  left  soft  as  a  child's.  No 
skin  roughness,  no  enlarged  pores.  You  feel 
freer  than  probably  ever  before  in  your  life 
of  annoying  hair  growth. 

Where  To  Obtain 

It  is  called  Neet— a  preparation  long  on  the 
market,  but  recently  changed  in  compound- 
ing to  embody  the  new  Lawry  discovery. 
It  is  on  sale  at  all  drug  and  department 
stores  and  beauty  parlors.  Costs  only  a 
few  cents.  274 

N  Cream 

\*>    v^    L      Hair  Remover 


HOTEL 

LUCY 


South  Carolina  Ave. 

at  the  Boardwalk 
Atlantic  City,  N.  J. 
ATLANTIC  CITY'S  >FWEST 

Centrally  Loraled  Fireproof  Mold 
Ji1"/l    European  American     Jp 


>250 


R.  B.  Lt'DY,  M.D. 


-A- 


The  Form 

Beautifully  Developed 

IS  P  ISHION'S  nECREE-o/u//. 

rounded  form  of  ffrr.mtne  £race  and 

H^&       charm.    If  you  are  flat-chested  and 

■^■^  x      unattractne.  investigate  the 

J  ^Jr  '.nun]     Dcvelopei 

^g  '         d.r  l:ltern  vcar*— praised  by 

B         '.    hundreds.  \Vnteforbnoi<let, 

*w^       W  \    "BEAIIY  CURVES  DE- 

iV^^.^  VELOPED."   sent    FREE 

— no  ohlieat:on. 

*  THE  OLIVE  COMPANY 

Dept.  P  Manitou,  Colo# 


142 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 


Make-up  Idea 

Improves  Whole  Appearance! 

In  Paris Hollywood everywhere' — a 

smart  new  beauty  secret  is  being  whispered. 
It  is  simply  this — that  your  hair  needs  "make- 
up" just  as  your  complexion  does^ — to  accent 
its  charm. 

Cleanliness  for  your  hair?  Yes,  of  course. — 
but  you  have  a  right  to  expect  something 
more  of  your   shampoo.     A    "tiny-tint"   that 

transforms  your  hair  like  magic! Alluring 

sheen! That  exquisite  soft  radiance  that  men 

admire! With  no  more  effort  than  you  use  in 

ordinary  shampooing!  Just  one  Golden  Glint 
Shampoo  will  show  you  the  way! 

No  other  shampoo,  anywhere,  like  it.  No- 
body will  guess  your  secret,  but  they'll  envy  you! 
25c  at  your  dealers',  or  send  for  free  sample. 

FREE        


J.  W.  KOBI  CO.,  630  Rainier  Ave.,  Dept.  E 
Seattle,  Wash.      «•••      Please  tend  a  fret  sample. 

Name 

Address 

City. .Ctate 


Color  of  my  hair: 


LONG,  ALLURING 

LASHES  IN   10  MINUTES! 

Ey-teb  lashes  are  real  lashes — 
long,  thick,  irresistible — not  a  tire- 
some ell'ort  to  get  the  effect  of 
long  lashes.  Attached  singly  to 
your  own  lashes  they  absolutely 
cannot  be  detected!  Easy,  quick 
to  apply.  Harmless  and  pro- 
tective. Last  2  or  3  weeks.  Not 
a  fleeted  by  water  or  cleansing 
agents. 

Send  your  name  and  address 
with  $1  for  special  trial  package 
(several  complete  applications)  to 

(Patent  Pending) 

Ey-teb— Dept.  Al,  275  W.  23rd  St.  N.  Y.  C. 
Have  beautiful  eyes  now — write  today! 

o*<n4  ta<nt- — Secure- 


FORM  ||  $1,001 
DEVELOPED 

17I. AT  chested?  Fashion  demands  the 
1  full,  rounded  shapeliness  "f  the  wom- 
anly form.  The  stars  of  Hollywood  are 
developing  their  feminine  charm.    You, 

too,  can  quickly  add  extra  fullness  where 
needed.      Ms    new   method    plumps  out 

Ihe   hollow,  mid   hmldi>   fir,,,,    youthful    U.»U».     Ji»t 

'     MIRACLE     CREAM     and 


.1  dcvclopi, 


•  I 


Accept 
Special 
Offer 


GIVEN  Write  Today 

Pond  onlv  $1.00  [or  hi-*,-  jir 
of  NANCY  LEE  MIRACLE  CREAM  (In  plain 
wrapper)  :,nd  I  will  include  mv  ipmhU  Finnrc- 
MouldinC  Coiir-c  :.nd  complete  advici'.  Take 
advantage  oi  Hill  bis  offer— write  Al   t>\i'K! 

NANCY  LEE  DepL  X-5 

816  Broadway,         New  York,  N.  Y. 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


••  BACHELOR  APARTMENT  "  —  Radio 
I'm  ruRES.— From  the  story  by  John  Howard  Lawson. 
Adapted  by  J.  Walter  Ruben.  Directed  by  Lowell 
Sherman.  The  cast:  Wayne  Carttr,  Lowell  Sherman; 
Heltnt  Andrews,  Irene  Dunne;  Agatha  Carraway.  Ma  ■ 
Murray;  Lee  Carlton,  Norman  Kerry;  Lil.i  Andrews, 
Claudia  Dell;  Henri  I)e  Maneau,  Ivan  LebedefT; 
Janet,  Noel  Francis;  Whoopee  Girl,  Roberta  Gale; 
Whoopee  Girl,  Arline  Judge:  Henry  Carraway,  Purnell 
Pratt;  Rollins,  Charles  Coleman;  Miss  Clark,  Kitty- 
Kelly;  Charlotte,  Hess  Flowers;  First  Drunk,  Arthur 
Mousman;  Mrs.  llalloran,  Florence  Roberts;  Brown, 
Boston  Winston. 

"HAD  SISTER"— Universal.— From  the  story 
"The  Flirt"  by  Booth  Tarkington.  Adapted  by  Tom 
Reed  and  Raymond  L.  Schrock.  Directed  by  Hobart 
Henley.  The  cast:  Dick  Lindley,  Conrad  Nagel; 
Marianne,  Sidney  Fox;  Laura,  Bette  Davis;  Minnie, 
ZaSu  Pitts;  Sam,  Slim  Summer  ville;  Mr.  Madison, 
Charles  Winninger;  Mrs.  Madison,  Emma  Dunn; 
Y alentine  Corliss,  Humphrey  Bogart;  Wade  Trumbull, 
Bert  Roach;  Iledrick  Madison,  David  Durand. 

"BEYOND  VICTORY"  — RKO-Pathe.— From 
the  story  by  Hope  Bennett.  Adapted  by  Horace 
Jackson  and  James  Gleason.  Directed  by  John 
Robertson.  The  cast:  Bill,  Bill  Boyd;  Frilzie,  ZaSu 
Pitts;  Lew,  Lew  Cody;  Ina,  Marion  Shilling;  Jim, 
James  Gleason;  Kalherine,  Lissi  Arna;  Major  Sparks, 
Theodore  Von  Eltz;  Mother,  Mary  Carr;  Russell, 
Russell  Gleason;  Fred  Brandon,  Fred  Scott;  Com- 
mandant, Frank  Reicher;  Sergeant,  Wade  Boteler; 
Colonel,  E.  H.  Calvert;  Reginald,  Charles  Coleman; 
German  Surgeon,  Max  Barwin;  Head  Nurse,  Hedwiga 
Reicher. 

"BIG  BUSINESS  GIRL"— First  National.— 
From  the  story  by  Patricia  Rcilly  and  H.  N.  Swanson. 
Adapted  by'  Robert  Lord.  Directed  by  William  A. 
Sciter.  The  cast:  Claire  Maclnlyre,  Lorctta  Young; 
John  Goodman,  Frank  Albertson;  Ralph  Clayton, 
Ricardo  Cortez;  Pearl,  Joan  Blondell;  Mrs.  Emery, 
Dorothy  Christy;  Sally  Curtis,  Virginia  Sale;  Office 
Boy,  Mickey  Bennett;  Messenger  Boy,  Bobby  Gordon; 
Sarah  Ellen,  Nancy  Dover;  Walter  Morley,  Oscar 
Apfel. 

"COMRADES  OF  1918"— Forenfilms.— From 
the  novel  "The  Four  from  the  Infantry"  by  Ernest 
Johannsen.  Adapted  by  Ladislaus  Vajda.  Directed 
by  G.  W.  Pabst.  The  cast:  The  Bavarian,  Fritz 
Kempers;  Karl.  Gustav  Diessel;  The  Student,  Hans 
Joachim  Moebis;  The  Lieutenant,  Claus  Clausen; 
Yvetle,  Jackie  Monnier;  Hampburg  Soldier,  Gustav 
Puttjer;  Karl's  Wife,  Hanna  Hoessrich;  Karl's 
Mother,  Else  Heller;  Butcher-Journeyman,  Carl 
Bellhaus. 

"DIRIGIBLE" — Columbia. — From  the  story  by- 
Frank  Wilber  Wead.  Adapted  by  Jo  Swerling. 
Directed  by  Frank  Capra.  The  cast:  Bradon.  Jack 
Holt;  Frisky  Pierce,  Ralph  Graves;  Helen,  Fay  Wray; 
Rondelle,  Hobart  Bosworth;  Sock  McGuire,  Roscoe 
Karns;  Hansen,  Harold  Goodwin;  Clarence,  Clarence 
Muse;  Admiral  Martin,  Emmett  Corrigan;  Com- 
mander of  the  U.  S.  S.  Lexington,  Al  Roscoe;  Lieu- 
tenant Rowland,  Selmer  Jackson. 


"DISHONORED"  —  Paramount.  —  From  the 
story  by  Josef  Von  Sternberg.  Screen  play  by  Daniel 
N.  Rubin.  Directed  by  Josef  Von  Sternberg.  The 
cast:  Lieutenant  Kranau,  Victor  McLaglen;  X27, 
Marlene  Dietrich;  Colonel  Kovrin,  Lew  Cody;  Secret 
Head.  Gustav  Von  Seyffertitz;  General  von 
llindau,  Warner  Oland;  Young  Lieutenant,  Barry 
Norton;  Court  Martial  Officer,  Davison  Clark;  General 
Dymov,  Wilfred  Lucas;  Manager,  Bill  Powell. 

"FINGER  POINTS.  THE"— First  National.— 
From  the  story  by  John  Monk  Saunders  and  W.  B. 
Burnett.  Adapted  by  Robert  Lord.  Directed  by 
John  Francis  Dillon.  The  cast:  Breckenridge  Lee, 
Richard  Barthelmess;  Marcia  Collins,  Fay  Wray; 
Charles  Russell,  Regis  Toomey;  Frank  Carter,  Robert 
Elliott;  Louis  Blanco.  Clark  Gable;  Managing  Ed. 
Wheeler,  Oscar  Apfel;  Larry  Hays,  Noel  Madison. 

"FRONT  PAGE,  THE"— United  Artists.— 
From  the  play  by  Ben  Hecht  and  Charles  MacArthur. 
Screen  play  by  Bartlctt  Cormack.  Directed  by  Lewis 
Mili-tone.  The  cast:  Walter  Burns.  Adolphe  Menjou; 
Hildy  Johnson,  Pat  O'Brien;  Peggy,  Mary  Brian; 
Bensinger,  Edward  Everett  Horton;  Murphy.  Walter 
Catlett;  Earl  Williams,  George  E.  Stone;  Molly,  Mae 
Clarke;  Pincus.  Slim  Summerville;  Kruger.  Matt 
Moore;  McCue,  Frank  McHugh;  Sheriff  Harlman, 
Clarence  H.  Wilson;  Schwartz,  Fred  Howard;  Wilson, 
Phil  Tead;  Endicott,  Eugene  Strong;  Woodenshoes, 
Spencer  Charters;  Diamond  Louie.  Maurice  Black; 
Mrs.  Grant,  Effie  Ellsler;  J>.nny,  Dorothea  Wolbert; 
The  Mayor,  James  Gordon;  Jacobi,  Dick  Alexander. 

"GODS  GIFT  TO  WOMEN"— Warners.— 
From  the  play  "The  Devil  Was  Sick"  by  Jane  Hinton. 
Screen  play  by  Joseph  Jackson  and  Raymond  Griffith. 
Directed  by  Michael  Curtiz.  The  cast:  Jacques 
Dtiryea,  Frank  Fay;  Diane  Churchill,  Laura  La 
Plante;  Doctor  Dumonl,  Arthur  Edmund  Carew;  Mr. 
Churchill,  Charles  Winninger;  Florine,  Louise  Brooks; 
Fifi,  Joan  Blondell;  Tania  Danilieff,  Margaret 
Livingston;  The  Undertaker,  Charles  Judels;  De 
Goncourt,  Armand  Kaliz;  Other  Girls,  "G"  Sisters; 
Nena  Quartaro;  Ethlyn  Claire;  Hazel  Howell. 

"GUN  SMOKE" — Paramount.— From  the  stoy. 
by  Grover  Jones  and  William  Slavens  McNuttr 
Directed  by  Edward  Sloman.  The  cast:  Brad  Farley, 
Richard  Arlen;  Sue  Yancey,  Mary  Brian;  Stub 
Wallock,  Eugene  Pallette;  hedge  Darvas,  William 
Boyd;  Hampsey  Dell,  Louise  Fazenda;  Tack  Gillup, 
Charles  Winninger;  Posey  Meed,  Guy  Oliver;  J.  H. 
Horton.  James  Durkin;  Spot  Skee,  Brooks  Benedict; 
Mink  Gordon,  Carroll  Naish;  Mugs  Maranza,  William 
Arnold;  Jassy  Quinn,  Stanley  Mack;  Strike  Jackson, 
William  V.  Mong;  Taffy  Keeler,'  Jack  Richardson; 
John,  Willie  Pung;  Eddie,  Imboden  Parrish;  Isabelle 
Horton,  Dawn  O'Day. 

"HONOR  AMONG  LOVERS  "—Paramount.— 
From  the  story  by  Austin  Parker.  Directed  by 
Dorothy  Arzncr.  The  cast:  Julia  Traynor,  Claudette 
Colbert;  Jerry  Stafford,  Fredric  March;  Philip 
Craig,  Monroe  Owsley;  Monty  Dunn,  Charlie  Ruggles; 
Doris  Blake,  Ginger  Rogers;  Maybelle,  Avonne 
Taylor;  Conroy,  Pat  O'Brien;  Margaret,  Janet 
McLcay;  Inspector,  John  Kearney;  Riggs.  Ralph 
Morgan;  Louis,  Jules  Epailly;  Buller,  Leonard  Carey. 


How's  this  for  a  rough  location?    The  "Shipmates"  company,  headed  by 

Robert  Montgomery  and  Dorothy  Jordan,  took  a  good  lashing  from  the  surf 

at  Laguna,  and  were  thoroughly  soaked  in  the  name  of  Art.    These  movie 

actors  certainly  do  have  fun! 


PHOTOP]  \\    M  \'.  \/im     i  OB    M  w  .    I       i 


••I. 


"IT'S    \    WISE    <  Mil  I) 
pin)    b 

mard      Hii 
HI  11  kmci  1  tool  ' 
Mui  in;     I 

Kobrrl   Mi  W  lohnny   Arl  Mil.l  1 

Applehy.    ! 

Fltai 

1  VST  PAH  \i>i-'.  Tin:  •  —  Colum 

Robinson      Ad  iplcd 

llowrll.      Dirrclcd   \>\    Erie   (  .    Ki  nlon 

1. 1,  k.     II. ill  ,     Mi 

I  *. •  1 1  ■  1 1 . 1  ■  ■  1 1 .  Marimo,   R 
1  >.  Bunn; 

>m  .  (  i.'v   / 
Rdmund  Breesc;  Alaban 

,  to;  />u>i«y  Murphy,  Robert  Graham. 

"LAUGH  VND  GET  RICH"— Radio  Pn    ■ 

I  r  mi  ii.  '  '  crrcn  pla) 

La  Cava      D 

i«,  Hugh   I  \rah    lui'i". 

M  i)     1 i||\  ■:.    Dorothj 

i'helpi.    Rnlx-rt    Emmrtt     Keane;    Htpbyrn,    John 
Harron;    Biddlt,  Charlra  Sellon:    Vinctnlini,  '■ 
late.  Maude  Fcaly;  Lurry,  R 
hi. 

"LIGHTNING    FLYER.    THR"— Columbia    - 

From  tin-  *tnry  l>\    Barf)    Barrlnger.     Directed   bj 

William  Nigh.     The  cast:  Jim  Ni  Hall; 

m.  Walter  Merrill;  Mr, 

1,    Robert    Homans;   Durkin,   Allx-rt   J.   Smith; 

Mr.  Rogers,  Ethan  Allei 

M..1  Iowa, 

M  VNOF  rHBWORLD"— Paramount.— From 

the  -t'>r\   by  Herman  J-  ManUcw  I  b) 

Richard  Wallace.  The  cast:  Muhael  Trttor,  William 
Powell;  Mary  Kendall.  Carole  Lombard;  I  rem, 
Wynne  Gibson;  //.;r.«'./  Taylor,  <'.uv  Klbbee:  Frank 
Thom?  Ire  Cheron; 

tred,  ( .  !•  llo. 

"MILLIONAIRE,    TIIK"  —  Wajwbbs.  —  From 

the  tlon  "  Idle  Hands"  b)  Earl  Derr  Bigger*.  Screen 

1.  Julian  Josephson.     Directed  by  John  Adolfi. 

■  bora  .!/•/<  11. 

1  M  inners;  Mi  t. 

■  vh  11. rrv;  !'/.;•-» 
Employ**,  J.  Farrell  MacDonald;  Andrews,  Bramwell 
Fletcher;    S,hofield.    Jai  ;    Briggs,    Tully 

Marshall;  Dosts,  Ivan  Simpson;  Or.  Horny,  J.  C. 
Nugent;  McCoy,  Sam  Hardy. 

■  MR.  LEMON  OF  ORANGE  "—Fox.  -From  the 
>i..r\  by  Jack  Hayes     Directed  by  John  G.  Blystone. 

'.  M,  lift.  El  Hr   n.l.l;  Julif  La 
Rue.   Fifi  Dorsay;   Air.   /U.iAv.  William  Collier,  Sr.; 
Mrs.  Blake.  Rmh  Warren;  /mm  l'-lake,  J 
;  lonald  Dill 

"PAGLIACCI"— Audio  Cinkma  Production  in 

.Hon  with  Fortune  Gallo. — From  the  opera 

luggtera    Leoncavallo.  by    Joe    W. 

in.     Th.-  cast:   Nrdda,    Mba   Novella;  Cani'o, 

Fernanda     Bertini:     Tomo.     Mario     Valle:    Silvio, 

Giuseppe  Inlcrranti;  Beope,  Francesco  Curd. 

"RIDER  OF  THE  PLAINS.  A'— Syndicate.— 

From  the  story  by  W.-llyn  Totman.    Directed  by  J. 

P.  McGowan.    The  ca^t:  Blocki*.  Tom  Tyl.-r:  Sandy, 

Andy  Shuford;  Belly.  Lilian  Bond;Gayic<.  Al  Bridge; 

Gordon     DeMain;     Parson.     Ted     A. lams; 

.  Slim  Whittaker;  Miss  Whipple,  Fern  Emmetl. 

"SrCIPPY" — Paramount. — From  the  comic  strip 
by  Percy  Crosby.  Adapted  by  Sam  Mints,  Joseph  L. 
Mankiewicz  and  Norman  McLeod.  Directed  by 
N'rman  Tauros  and  David  Burton.  The  cast: 
Skippy,  Jackie  Ciwiht;  Eloise,  Milzi  Green;  Sidney, 
Jackie  Searl;  Sooky,  Robert  Coogan;  Skippy's  Ma, 
Enid  Bennett;  The  IIea?y.  Donald  Haines;  Sooky's 
Mother,  Helen  Jerome  Eddy. 

"STEPPING  OUT"— M-G-M.— From  the  play 
by  Elmer  Harris.  Directed  by  Charles.  F.  Rieener. 
The  cast:  Sally,  Charlotte  Greenwood;  Eve,  Leila 
Hyams;  Tom,  Reginald  Denny;  Cleo.  Lilian  Bond; 
Paul.  Cliff  Edwards;  Madge,  M.rna  Kennedy;  I 
Marry  Stubbs;  Charley  Miller.  Richard  Tucker;  Hal, 
Kane  Richmond;  Parker,  Wilson  H 

•  STRANGERS  MAY  KISS"— M-G-M.— From 
the  novel  by  Ursula  Parrott.  Adapted  by  John 
Median,      Directed   b-  Lzmaurice.     The 

cast:  Lisbeth,  Norma  Shearer;  Situ,  Robert  Mont- 
gomery; Alan,  Neil  Hamilton:  Genera.  Marjorie 
Rambeau;  Celia.  Irene  Rich;  .1  adeem.  Hale  Hamilton; 
Spanish  Dancer.  Conchita  Montenegro;  liar 
Prouty;  D*  Bamtu,  Albert  Conti;  Waiter.  Henry 
Armetta;    Waiter,  George  Davis. 

"SW'ANEE  RIVER"— SOKO  Art-World  Wipe. 
— From  the  story  by  Barbara  Chambers  V 
Adapted  by  Arthur  Hoerl.  Directed  by  Raymond 
Cannon.  The  cast:  Gurry.  Grant  Withers;  Caroline. 
Thelma  Todd;  Jack  Bradford.  Philo  McCullottgh; 
Morton.  Walter  Miller:  Col.  Bradford.  Palmer  Mor- 
rison;  Esau,  Robert  Frazier. 

"TABU" — PARAMOUNT. — From  the  story  by  F. 
W.  Murnau  and  Robert  Flaherty.  Directed  by  F.  W. 
Murnau.    The  cast:  Reri;  Matahi;   Hitu. 


Now!  JLovely  JLips  lor 
8  Hours! 


AY»'  H-bour  lip  coloring  discovered 
in  Paris  by  lidna  Wallace  Hopper. 
Formulated  on  entirely  new  principle. 
Waterproof .  .  .  Wearproof .  .  .  Indel- 
ible.   Ends  constant  "making-up." 

Ei>\  \   Wat. 1.  Id  IIoppF.n,  famous 
beauty,  discovered  ii  in  Puis.   A  h|> 
color  thai  hnnithfti  all  the  nm  oaring  end 
Beeting  life  af  present  ways  in  make-up.  An 
utterly  new  kind  of  lipstick. 

She  .sont  it  to  Hollywood,  and  if  swept 
through  the  studios  liko  a  storm.  Old-time 
lipsticks  were  discarded  overnight. 

Now— Kissproof,  the  world's  larjrost 
makers  of  lipsticks,  has  obtained  the  for- 
mula frmii  Miss  Hopper,  and  offers  i's 
amasing  results  to  you.  A  totally  New  type, 
different  from  any  other  you  have  ever 
tried  . . .  Kissproof  or  any  other  hind. 

■  on  nut  it  on  before  you  ko  out.  Then 
forget  about  it.  Six  hours,  eighl  hours  later 
your  lips  are  still  naturally  loveryl 

No  more  constant  muking-up.  No  more 
fuss  and  bother.  Do  you  wonder  that 
u .  incn  are  flocking  to  its  use? 

I  t  lirly  NEW  Principle 
It  is  different  in  formula  and  result  from 
any  previously  known  lipstick.    It  does 
what  no  other  lipstick  docs  or  has  ever 


You  apply  uhert  soil  JooiW 

done  .  .  .  art  11  alii/  seemi  to  la-t  indefin 
That's  because  the  color  pigment  it  • 

bodies  has  never  lief. .re  l.een  Used  III  11  llj>- 

■tick.   It  holds  where  others  smear. 

Then,   tOO,  \i   is  a  trie-,  Nam  RAL  Oolor. 

Thus  it  ends  that  artificial  smirk  women 
have  tried  for  vears  to  overcome  A  color 
that  glorifies  the  lips  to  pulse-quickening 
loveliness— trust  the  Frcnrti  for  t 
What  To  .  (-/.   /  or 

To  obtain,  ask  for  the  New  1 
Indelible  Lipstick  (or  Lip  and  Cheek 
Rouge).  And  —  remember  it  is  Nor  the 
"same  '  as  any  other  lipstick  known.  Don't 
believe  that  just  because  you  have  tried 
Kissproof  before— that  you  have  tried  this 
one.  You  haven't;  this  is  Emtibbly  Nbw. 

Owing  to  tremendous  demand,  the  1 
is  as  little  as  50c— Edna  Wallace  Hopper 
paid  $2.50  for  the  original  in  Piri- 
forms at  all  toilet  counters— lipstick  and 
lip  and  cheek  rouge. 

Lipsticks— Blatk  and  red  enamel  snirele  ate.  7Se  Black 

and  told  case,  50c.  Lip  and  Check  Rouge 

yed  and  black  enamel  rarutv  u  tth  mirror,  .V'r    N- 

Parisian    Shades:    Theatrical,    Natural,    Raspberry, 

Orange. 

We  NEW 

Aissprooj 

SadeliLle  lipstick 


Newly  Discovered  Formula 


you 

87,000  men  and 
women  have  used 
the  ANITA  Nose 
Adju-tertoiinprove 
their  appear- 
ance. Shapes 
flesh  and  car- 
tilage of  the 
nose — quickly,  s:\tely  and  painlessly,  while 
you  sleep  or  w.rk.  Y  >ir  age  doaan'l  mat- 
ter. Raaulta  ara  lasting  praiasit. 
.Small  cost.     Money-back  guarantee. 

Send  for  FREE  BOOKLET 
"The  Nose  and  Its  Shape" 

ANITA  INSTITUTE,  E28  AnilaBldg.,  Newark,  N.  J. 


MORE  MONEY/b/ 
TYPISTS 


.NOSE 


30  DAYS 
HOME   TRIAL 


Increase  Pay — 
Save  Nerve  Wear ! 


V 


- 


NEW  ERA  TVPING.  Inc. 

E-:0  Ctlumbla  Bidq.  SpriniHeld.  Ohio 


SUBSCRIBE   FOR   PHOTOPLAY 

Yearly  SeBsCRipnos  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mcrcn  and  Cuba; 
$3.00  Canada;  13.50  to  foreign  countries.  Remittance  should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal 
or  express  money  order. 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO,  ILL. 


i44 


Tryth 

Finger-tip  Test 

Don't  trust  your  mirror!  It  can't  tell  you 
about  the  invisible  dandruff  cap  clogging  the 
pores  of  your  scalp  and  stifling  the  growth  of 
your  hair.  Find  out  now!  Gently  scratch  your 
scalp — then   look   at  your  finger   tips. 

Dandruff  is  as  natural  as  perspiration.  The 
only  way  to  remove  dandruff  is  to  dissolve  it, 
then  wash  it  out.  Fitch's  Dandruff  Remover 
Shampoo  dissolves  and  removes  every  particle 
of  dandruff  instantly  under  a  money-back  guar- 
antee. Rinses  clean  in  hard  or  soft  water.  As 
good    for   blondes   as  for  brunettes. 

Try  Fitch's  today.  At  all  barber  and  beauty 
shops,   drug  and   department   stores. 

Send  for  free  trial  size  and  booklet 

f^^^^g-       »*    **      Dandruff 

F.  W.  FITCH  CO.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa.         PH  5 

Please  send  me  generous  free  trial  package  and 

32  page  educational  booklet  "Your  Hair  and  Scalp." 

Name 

A ddress 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  May,  1931 

"TAILOR  MADE  MAN,  A"— M-C-M.— From 
tin-  original  play  by  Gabriel  Dregely.  Prom  tin-  Btage 
by  Hurry  James  Smith.  Continuity  by  Edgar 
All. in  Woolf.  bin  <t<  il  by  Sam  Wood.  Tin-  cast:  John 
l'uul  Hart,  William  Haines;  Tanya,  Dorothy  Jordan; 
lluher,  Joseph  Cawthorn;  Killy  Dupuy,  Marjorie 
Rambeau;  Jellicolt,  William  Austin;  Dr.  \'on  Sonnlag, 
Ian  Kiiih;  V/rv  Stanlaw,  llidda  Hopper;  Mr. 
Stanlav,  Hale  Hamilton;  Peter,  Henry  Armetta; 
Abraham  Nullum,  Walter  Walker;  I'omeroy,  Forrester 
Harvey;  Bessie,  Joan  Marsh;  Corrine,  Martha  Sleeper. 

"UNFAITHFUL"  —  Paramouvt.  —  From  the 
story  by  John  Van  Drutcn.  Continuity  by  Eve 
1  Directed  by  John  Cromwell.  The  cast :  Fay, 
Ruth  Chatterton;  Carl  lleiden,  Paul  Lukas;  Ronald 
Kilkerry,  Paul  Cavanagh;  Gemma  Houston,  Juliette 
t  ompton;  Terry  Houston,  Donald  Cook;  Aunt  Janie, 
Emily  Fitzroy;  Jeffries,  Leslie  Palmer;  Buck,  Sid 
Saylor;  Steve,  Bruce  Warren;  Btshop,  Arnold  Lucy, 
Gerald,  Denis  D'Auburn;  Tinker,  Ambrose  Barker; 
Iris,  Stella  Moore;  Count  Carini,  Capt.  George  Jack- 
son; Frank,  Eric  Kalkhurst;  A  Drunk,  Douglas 
Gilmore;  Armstrong,  Jack  Richardson;  Inspector, 
Donald  MacKenzie. 

"WILD  WEST  WHOOPEE"— Cosmo.— From 
the  story  by  Robert  J.  Horner.  Directed  by  Robert 
J.  Horner.  The  cast:  Jack  Perrin;  Josephine  Hill; 
Fred  Church;  Horace  Carpenter. 


Freckles 

VANISH    LIKE    MAGIC 


DEMOVE  those  embarrassing  freckles. 
AV  Surprise  your  friends  with  a  new 
velvety  soft,  crystal  clear  complexion. 
You  can  —  with  Stillman's  Freckle 
Cream.  It  bleaches  them  out  while 
you  sleep.  Done  so  quickly  and  easily 
— secretly  too.  The  first  jar  proves  its 
magic   worth.      At   all   drug  Etores. 

Stillmans  tjfo  // 

Freckle  Cream  U\J      / 

■Whitens  Skin  11 


Removes  Freckles — V 


The    Stillman    Company, 
Aurora,  III.,  U.  S.  A. 
81    Beauty    Dept..    send    free 
booklet.    Tells    why    you    have 
freckles — how  to  remove  them. 


Address 


I 
J 


He  Has  Two  Bosses 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  39  ] 

Arliss  has  his  own  way  in  many  things.  Such 
as  having  tea  every  afternoon  on  the  set,  and 
quitting  work  at  four-thirty  sharp  each  day. 
But  even  in  this,  it's  Jenner  who  sees  to  things — 

Jenner,  for  instance,  is  a  wizard  at  producing 
tea.  Come  three-thirty,  and  Jenner  appears — 
be  it  on  the  studio  lot,  or  'way  off  on  location 
somewhere — with  a  pot  of  tea.  And  production 
is  held  up  while  George  Arliss  sips  his  tea. 
Arliss  invariably  has  at  least  one  guest  at  tea — 
someone  in  the  company,  perhaps,  or  a  visitor. 

Tea  done,  picture-making  is  resumed.  But 
at  four-thirty  sharp,  Jenner  functions  again. 
He  announces  it's  time  to  quit.  And  Arliss 
quits.  You  see,  it's  in  his  contract — work  from 
nine-thirty  to  four-thirty  daily.  Well,  there 
are  lots  of  contracts  like  that,  but  studio  cus- 
tom is  to  go  on  working  after  hours  to  finish  a 
scene  or  a  sequence.    Most  actors  don't  object. 

HPHEY  tried  it  just  once  on  Arliss.  It  was  in 
-*-  the  midst  of  a  scene  when  four-thirty  came. 
Instantly,  Jenner  was  on  the  set.  He  stalked 
in  front  of  cameras  and  right  under  the  micro- 
phone and  declaimed:  "It's  time  for  Mr.  Arliss 
to  go  'ome. "  And  although  director  and  others 
raved,  Mr.  Arliss  went  home.  Jenner  has  even, 
at  times,  gone  so  far  as  to  snatch  Arliss'  wig  off, 
prompt  at  four-thirty,  to  forestall  directors  who 
might  try  to  talk  Arliss  into  working  a  bit  over- 
time! 

One  of  the  most  distinguishing  things  about 
Arliss  is  his  strange  walk.  Off  set,  he  swings 
along  with  a  most  ungainly  stride.  His  arms 
hang  like  an  ape's.  He  stoops,  round-shoul- 
dered, at  a  startling  angle.  At  a  half  mile  or 
more,  you  could  recognize  him  by  that  walking 
posture. 

Then,  there's  the  monocle.  It's  hard  to  think 
of  Arliss  without  it.  He's  worn  it  ever  since  he 
was  a  youth — because  his  father  wore  one  be- 
fore him.  At  first,  it  was  an  affectation;  now 
it's  a  necessity,  because  he's  become  near-sight- 
ed, and  Arliss  needs  the  glass  to  see  clearly.  In 
the  years,  the  monocle  has  worn  two  deep 
grooves  in  his  face — above  and  below  his  right 
eye. 

"In  twenty-five  years,"  says  Jenner,  "I've 
never  seen  Mr.  Arliss  break  a  monocle."  But 
Arliss  isn't  careless.  He  always  carries  a  spare. 
And  he  rarely  twirls  the  glass  on  its  string,  as 
so  many  stagy  Englishmen  do.  When  he  dis- 
penses with  using  it,  he  merely  opens  his  eye 
wide,  the  monocle  drops  out,  he  catches  it  in 
his  hand  and  slips  it  into  his  vest  pocket.  He 
doesn't  wear  it  when  reading. 

He  never  works  Sundays,  not  because  he's 
particularly  religious,  but  because  he  doesn't 
wish  to.  He  has  never  driven  an  automobile 
in  his  life,  and  doesn't  know  how.     Getting 


1  HE.  f>ertect  consummation  of  a 
luxurious  bath  is  a  gentle  patting 
with  No.  4711  Bath  Dusting 
Powder  .  .  .  really  a  first  essential 
to  bodily  comfort,  and  to  personal 
cbarm.  Delicately  scented  .  . . 
|bw  you  may  choose  from 
^\k  five     odors:     fclau     de 

C^ologne,  (  leranium 
Rose,  L'(  ^rlrande, 
Lavender.  Jasmine. 

In  J-/6.  metal  container 

with  vel-velour  puff. 

S1.S0 

Made  in  U.S.A.  by 

Mulhens  &  Kropff,  Inc. 

25  W.  45lh  St.,  N.  Y. 


». 


i 


"Both 
T)u  sting  TolucLbt 


Often 
IMITATED 

but  never 
DUPLICATED 


YOU  find  Katherine  Mac- 
Donald's  Lash  Cosmetic 
as  used  by  the  stars  of  Holly- 
wood gives  no  hint  of  artificiality,  for  it  leaves  your  lashes 
soft  and  silky,  yet  is  positively  waterproof.  Cry,  swim, 
get  soaked  in  the  rain. . .  no  water  can  make  it  streak 
or  run.  Contains  no  varnish,  so  cannot  flake  or  break 
your  lashes.   Easily  removed  with  cold  cream. 

Efforts  have  been  made  to  copy  this  wonderful  liquid 
mascara  but  without  success.  Handy  purse  size  gold 
capped  bottle,  black  or  brown,  $1. 

KATHERINE  MUcDONALD'S 
?X        LASH 


COSMETIC 

Katherine  MacDonald,  Hollywood,  Calif. 


Mercolized  Wax 
Keeps  Skin  Young 

Absorb  all  blemishes  and  discolorationa  by  regularly  using 
pure  Mercolized  Wax.  Get  an  ounce,  and  use  as  directed. 
Fine,  almost  in  visible  particles  of  aged  skin  fleck  off.  until  all 
defects,  such  as  pimples,  liver  spots,  tan.  freckles  and  large 
pores  have  disappeared.  Skinis  beautifully  clear,  soft  and 
velvet ya  and  face  looks  years  younger.  Mercolized  Wax 
brings'out  the  hidden  beauty.  To  quickly  reduce  wrink- 
les and  other  age  lines,  use  this  face  lotion:  1  ounce  Pow- 
dered Saxolite  and  1  half  pint  witch  hazel.  At  drug  stores. 


The  Soap  That's  Known  and 
Sold  The  World  Around 

Cuticura 

Nothing  Better  for  Daily  Use 

Price  25c.     Sample  free. 
Address  :  "Cotlcura, '  Dept.  12B,  Maiden,  Km 


MrtJaMMI 

in  your  own  home.  Simple  easy  method 
successful  2S  years.  No  medicine,  no  grease, 
nothing  to  wipe  off.  Results  where  needed- 
Arms,  Legs,  Neck,  Bosom,  ANY  part.  Send 
10c  for  Full  Information  and  a  Big  Four  Dram 
Box  (note  the  size)  of  my  PEERLESS  wokder 
CREAM.the  original  All  in-one  Cream,  Remember 
10c.  HOT  50c  Wrao  coin  cr  send  stamng.  but  <\o 
it  now.      MADAME  WILLIAMS,  CUM,  BUFFJOO,  K.  1. 


Photopi  w  m  \«. a/im   i  01  May,  i     i 


around  Hollywood,  hi-  uaei  .1  Itlldio  i.ir  which 

i-,  placed  tt  hit  rlwpfml  He  owna  no  home  In 
America,  living  in  hotel  apartmenti  instead. 
Jtu  t  be  owni  two  hou  land. 

One  ot  his  greatest  ambitioni  li  to  be 
knighted.    Some  day,  h<-  hopes,  he'll  b 

bis  last  \  isit  to  Eng- 
land, he  made  I  political  pictures  in 
whit  h  he  .i|>i«  i  I  nglish 
voters  tocasi  their  ballots  for  the  conservative 
p.uty  Stanley  Baldwin  is  one  of  Ai 
triends.  li  tin-  conservativ  es  win  the  next 
tion  m  Britain,  Arliss  hopes  to  get  his  knight- 
hood. 

ALTHOUGH  for  the  pasl   three  decades 
Arliss  has  been  doing  virtually  all  hi 
work  in  America,  he  >till  has  his  clothes  made 
in  England.   He  wears  typical  English  clothes 
— fine,  hut  not  foppish.     He  always  wears  ■ 

ollar.  and   high  shoes,  and   rather  tight- 
and-high-CUl  trousers.    He  doesn't  think  much 

ol    modern   fashions. 

He  wears  his  clothes  a  long  time  befon 

carding  them. 

His  salary,  surprisingly,  is  less  than  is  paid 
man'.  considerably   lesser  importance 

and  fame.  He  carries  his  money  in  a  purse, 
and  is  frankly  frugal.     Some  unkind  sou' 

nounce  it  "tight.      Vet  he  usually  buys  gifts 

for  everybody  in  his  company  at  the  close  of  a 
picture. 

He'l  Ml  handsome,  hut  is  rather  particular 
about  photographs  of  himself.  They  rarely 
satisfy   him.      He   knows   he's   not    the   "hero 

type."  as  he  terms  it,  hut  you  always  feel  that 

he  thinks  he's  better-looking  than  his  pictures 
show    him.      He    wears    hi^h  heeled    shot 
make  him  look  taller. 

He  has  crossed  the  ocean  many  times,  yet  he 
invariably  gets  seasick.  He  goes  out  very  little: 
doesn't  care  much  for  social  activities,  and 
makes  comparatively  few  friends.  Hollywood 
night  life  is  utterly  unknown  to  him,  and  he  has 
attended  only  two  of  Hollywood's  famous  pre- 
mieres. At  both,  he  had  ■  miserable  time,  and 
lied  as  early  as  he  could. 

He  once,  years  ago,  tang  the  lead  in  an  I 
lish  musical  comedy.    He  admits  it  was  terrible, 
and   hasn't  sung  since — in  public.     Says  the 
other  singers  used  to  let  him  start  first,  so  they 
could  find  out  what  key  he  was  going  to  sing  in. 

He  is  DOt  a  teetotaler.     He  hates  buttermilk. 

He  smokes  a  t;o<xl  deal — anything,  cigars,  cig- 
arettes, pipes,  nugfle.  He  has  been  married 
to  the  same  Wife  more  than  three  deciles  He 
first  noticed  her  in  a  London  cast  because  her 
arms  were  pretty,  and  was  afraid  to  propose  to 
her  until  they  were  marooned  in  a  dark  theater 
together  by  a  rainstorm,  and  there's  never  been 
any  other  woman  to  him.  She  appears  with 
him  in  most  of  his  plays  and  pictures,  but  he 
never  lets  her  play  any  role  but  his  own  wife — 
and  that  only  when  the  sta^e  characters  are 
happily  wed. 

He  loves  dowers  and  books.  He  collects 
books. 

His  only  exercise  is  walking,  anil  he  does 
not  care  for  any  sport. 

He  writes  so  vilely  that  no  one  can  decipher 
his  signature. 

T— P-  is  extremely  particular  about  the  diction 
-*■  -*-and  English  of  those  in  a  cast  with  him.  and 
rehearses  them  many  times  to  make  sure  their 
speech  is  perfect. 

Vet  he  likes  American  slang.  He  thinks  it's 
colorful  and  picturesque,  but  now  and  then,  he 
gets  it  mixed  up. 

In  focusing  cameras  between  scenes,  a  double 
sits  or  stands  in  the  place  where  the  star  will 
act. 

The  star  rests  while  the  double  does  this 
tedious  work. 

The  double  is  called  a  "stand-in."  Arliss 
never  could  get  that  straight.  One  day.  they 
asked  him  to  stand  in  a  certain  place  while  lights 
and  cameras  were  trained  on  him. 

"Oh,"  he  protested,  "I'll  leave  that  to  my 
step-ins." 

He  never  could  understand  why  they  laughed 
so. 


White  Kid  Slippers 
Require  Special  Care! 

NO  ordinary  cleaner  will  do  if  you  demand 
that  your  slippers  be  spotlessly  clean.  And 
no  ordinary  cleaner  will  keep  them  from  yel- 
lowing. But  Cinderella  Kid  White  will,  be- 
cause it  is  a  scientifically  blended  dressing  that 
protects  the  surface  .  .  .  keeps  it  lastingly  new 
.  .  .  preserves  its  dainty  whiteness.  Try  it  and 
see  for  yourself. 

Sold  at  the  Better  Shoe  and  Department  Stores 


der> 

Kid  White 


Made  by 

Everett  &  Barron  Co. 

Providence,  R.  I. 


(Tnderella 

Shoe 
Dressings 


Frc335*r 


'THE  BEST  AT 
ANY  PRICE" 


/MARTLY 
GROOMED 

Miss  1931  is  smartly 
groomed  from  head  to 
toe,  with  a  charming 
audacity  all  her  own. 
She  gives  the  final  touch 
to  her  sparkling  features 
with  a  Sterilized  Blue 
Bird  Powder  Puff. 

COLUMBIA  PLUSH  &  PUFF  CO. 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


cX^uslrous    \^solor  jor 

STREAKED 
■1^    HAIR 

[Test  Bottle  "I 
ruij 


BtWlWlr 


Lpuff* 


Have  ever-youthful 
hair  this  SAFE  way. 
Make  test  yourself. 
No  risk.  No  expense. 
We  send  complete  Test  Package  FREE. 
This  way  you  simply  comb  clear  liquid 
through  hair,  ('.ray  goes.  Any  shade  wanted 
comes — black,  brown,  auburn,  blonde. 
Won't  rub  off  or  stain.  We  do  not  ask  you 
to  buy — just  try  it  at  our  expense. 


FREE 
TEST 


3.000.000  women  have  received 
tnis  test.  Snip  off  a  |i>ck  or  hair. 
Test  it  first  this  sate  way.  Mail 
coupon  for  Test  Package. 


>I\RYT.  GOl.DMVS 


M21  Goldman  BIdg. 
Name 


St.  Paul.  Minn. 


Street 

City .--- 

Color  of  your  hair?. 


State 


The  irrepressible  Maurice  trying  to 
"break  up"  Miriam  Hopkins  in  a  studio 
still  picture  for  which  they  are  posing. 
You  can  see  her  working  hard  not  to  give 
in  and  laugh 


SUCH  a  pretty  blue  and  silver  boudoir.  Or  it  would  be, 
if  it  had  a  ceiling  and  if  the  walls  weren't  cut  off  at  the 
top  in  a  jagged  line.  But  it  doesn't  matter,  because  that 
won't  show  in  the  picture. 

It's  a  scene  in  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant,"  the  latest  Chevalier 
film.  Maurice  strides  on  the  set,  his  step  taking  its  cue  from 
the  martial  and  resplendent  uniform  he  wears.  Someone 
picks  up  a  spur  from  the  floor  and  wisecracks  about  "the  spur 
of  the  moment. "  Maurice  registers  the  famous  Chevalier 
grin  and  fastens  the  spur  to  his  boot. 

From  his  chair  next  to  a  camera  a  short,  heavy-set  man 
rises,  his  dark  eyes  alive  under  an  untidy  lock  of  black  hair 
which  hangs  across  his  forehead.  It  is  Ernst  Lubitsch,  director 
of  that  other  Chevalier  hit,  "The  Love  Parade." 

"All  right,  Maurice,"  he  says.  "Let's  do  somesing  now." 
He  turns  to  Miriam  Hopkins,  the  Princess  of  this  picture. 
(You  probably  remember  her  in  "Fast  and  Loose.")  "All  right, 
Mariam,"  he  says,  mispronouncing  her  name  and  making  her 
like  it.     "Rehearsal,"  he  orders.     "Everyone  quiet." 

Three  bells  ring  as  the  signal  for  silence  all  through  the  big 
Paramount  Eastern  Studios.  Chevalier  opens  a  door  in  the 
torn-off  wall  and  waits  on  the  other  side  for  his  cue  to  come 
on  the  set. 

"Action,  Mariam,"  instructs  Mr.  Lubitsch. 

Chevalier  comes  through  the  door,  quietly  closes  it  after  him, 
hesitates  a  moment  and  goes  to  the  side  of  his  bride.  But  an 
amazing  thing  has  happened.  There  are,  suddenly,  two  Prin- 
cesses— the  slender  Miriam  and  the  short,  dark-eyed  man  on 
the  sidelines. 

EVERY  expression  on  Miriam's  face  is  duplicated  in  Mr. 
Lubitsch's.  That  startled  look,  when  she  hears  the  door 
close  behind  the  man  she  has  just  married.  Her  astonishment 
when  he  stands  beside  her  and  says,  "Good-night,  dear."  Her 
uncomprehending  shyness.  All  these  are  duplicated  and  in- 
tensified on  the  face  of  the  man  who  peers  from  beneath 
the  camera. 

"What  an  actor!"  you  want  to  shout. 

U6 


A  Studio 
Ramble 


By 

Frances  Kish 


Fascinated,   you   watch   the  same  scene   rehearsed 

half  a  dozen  times,  the  same  double  acting  of  girl  and 

director.     Then  a  brief  rest.     Chevalier  autographs  a 

photograph  of  himself  for  an  admirer.     Miriam  and 

Mr.  Lubitsch  go  over  part  of  her  scene,  smoothing  out  the 

action,  and  giggling  like  a  couple  of  school  children  at  recess. 

Hammers  pound  on  the  floor  above,  where  sets  for  "Tarnished 

Lady,"'  Tallulah  Bankhead's  talkie  bow,  are  being  torn  down 

to  make  way  for  the  new  Nancy  Carroll-Fredric  March  picture. 

On  the  Lubitsch  set  lights  are  shifted  and  cameras  adjusted. 
The  "dolly,"  a  rubber-tired  truck  on  which  a  camera  is 
mounted,  is  carefully  placed  and  its  course  marked  by  white 
chalk  lines  to  be  followed  as  the  camera  advances  for  close-ups. 

Make-up  is  freshened.  A  prop  boy  rushes  forward  to  adjust 
the  train  of  Miriam's  lace  wedding  dress — a  lovely,  square- 
necked  gown  with  long,  tight  sleeves.  Her  long  veil  trails 
behind  her  like  a  white  cloud. 

"Zis  is  a  take,"  says  Mr.  Lubitsch.  The  bells  signal  silence. 
It's  just  like  a  rehearsal,  except  for  a  tenseness  that  com- 
municates itself  to  everyone.  Suddenly  Mr.  Lubitsch  growls 
"Cut."  His  alert  ear  has  caught  the  sound  of  a  hammer 
pounding  on  another  set,  a  sound  that  would  be  magnified 
to  the  proportions  of  a  thunder  storm  by  the  sensitive  micro- 
phones. Someone  has  disregarded  orders.  A  messenger  is 
sent  to  investigate. 

THEY  start  again.  All  goes  well,  until  Chevalier  gets  a 
"frog"  in  his  throat.  "Are  you  not  my  wife?"  he  asks  the 
puzzled  Princess.  "Am  I  not  your — "  and  try  as  he  will, 
the  word  "husband"  will  not  come  out  of  his  mouth.  Every- 
body laughs,  and  the  scene  starts  again.  This  time  it  goes 
well.  But  Mr.  Lubitsch  sees  a  chance  for  improvement. 
They  do  it  again.  They  do  it  another  time,  and  another 
time.  Mr.  Lubitsch  savs,  "Now,  Miriam,  try  that  line  wiss- 
out  the  'Oh.'" 

Finally,  he  is  satisfied.  "Cut,"  he  orders.  "Zis  is  okay 
for  me,"  he  says.    "How  about  sound?" 

"Okay  for  sound,"  comes  the  report  from  the  monitor  room. 

"Perfect  timing  in  that  scene,"  exults  the  director. 

Another  rest,  for  everyone  bufMiriam  Hopkins.  The  scene 
is  to  be  repeated  for  the  French  version,  and  Miriam  is  fever- 
ishly rehearsing  her  lines,  parrot-like.  Mr.  Lubitsch  has  wisely 
selected  a  cast  equally  at  home  in  English  and  French — 
Chevalier,  Claudette  Colbert,  George  Barbier — but  Miriam's 
French  appears  to  be  somewhat  uncertain. 

But,  on  the  first  take,  it  is  Chevalier's  French  that  strikes 
a  snag.  He  mixes  it  with  a  little  English,  with  amusing  results. 
What  a  howl  goes  up  from  the  others!  Maurice  joins  in  the 
general  laugh  and  says  with  his  funny  little  rising  inflection 
after  each  word:  "It's  a  great  thing,  is  eet  not,  to  talk  two 
langua-a-ges.  Not  ev-ery-body  can  talk  two  langua-a-ges  so 
pair-feet,  n'est-ce  pas?" 

"And,"  laments  Miriam,  "just  when  I  was  getting  along  so 
swimmingly  with  my  part  of  it!" 

The  next  time  it  goes  all  right.  "Hooray!"  shouts  Chevalier. 
And,  "Da-a-rn  good!"  is  his  final  comment. 


Lyeliccne    shad 


;iep  oul   in 


is 


season 


/  ink    CUWL 


are  ouls/andm 


/>■ 


mops 


Salespeople  ni  ptte 
ererfninn-re  aii'c  inn  recipe 
Luneurnrtrv  lirvn/  jiuvl 

When  I  visited  big  stores  all  over  the 
country  to  learn  about  this  year's  sum- 
mer clothes,  I  wasn't  a  bit  disappointed 
to  learn  that  pinks  and  blues  will  be 
popular  once  more.  Isn't  every  woman 
prettier  in  pink?  And  blue  is  cool  and 
charming  (and  a  favorite  with  men!). 

Of  course,  there  are  lovely  new  shades 
— creamy  pinks,  blush  pinks,  and  many 
of  the  blues  have  a  lavender  cast.  Yel- 
low and  green,  too,  are  usually  light  in 
shade.  In  fact,  it's  a  pastel  season! 

"These  colors,"  said  I  to  the  sales- 


Protect 

your  pastel  frocks  from 
that vV wishy-washy" look 


people  who  showed  me  the  new  deli- 
cately tinted  silks,  "are  lovely  now.  But 
they'll  certainly  look  washed  out  if  they 
fade  the  least  bit  in  laundering." 

"They  won't  fade,"  I  was  told,  "if  you 
wash  them  properly.  The  dyes  are  good 
and  if  you  use  lukewarm  Ivory  suds  to 
wash  them  in,  they'll  stay  fresh  through 
the  whole  summer." 

Everywhere,  in  all  the  leading  cities, 
in  the  nicest  shops  and  largest  depart- 
ment stores,  salespeople  are  recom- 
mending Ivory  for  everything  washable. 

In  one  of  Boston's  finest  department 
stores,  the  clerk  who  displayed  loung- 
ing pajamas  in  delicate  pastel  shades 
said,  "Ivory  is  the  best  soap  to  use. 
\\  ^  have  a  laboratory  here  where  we 
make  washing  experiments  and  we 
have  found  that  some  other  soaps  are 
too  strong." 


fin  this  particular  store,  Ivory  in  one 
of  its  various  forms  was  the  only  soap 
which  was  recommended  for  silk  sport 
dresses,  baby  woolens,  negligees,  sheer 
silk  stockings  and  sweaters  by  the  clerks 
to  whom  I  talked.) 

In  a  fine  specialty  shop  in  Chicago 
I  was  told:  "I  always  recommend  Ivory 
Soap.  I  believe  it  is  safest  to  use — it  is 
mild  and  will  not  (m.\c  delicate  shades." 

You  yourself  will  hear  things  like 
these  from  salespeople  in  the  fine  shops 
of  your  own  city:  "Ivory  is  pure"  .  .  . 
"Ivory  is  safe"  .  .  .  "Manufacturers  ad- 
vise Ivory."  Of  course.  Isn't  Ivory  so 
pure  that  it  is  used  to  bathe  babies? 
When  we  use  Ivory  for  our  fine  things, 
we  all  know  we  need  not  worry  about 
our  soap  —  we  are  using  as  pure  and 
sate  a  soap  as  money  can  buy. 

HOPE    ANDREWS 


()i)'XooZp///Y-/     •     kind  to  d'enffliif/q  it  touched 


Surely  you've  tried  (tie  new    IVORY       SNOW? 

Tiny,  line  thin  bubbles  of  pure  Ivory  Soap!  Ivory  Snow 
dissolves  /'«u;j»;:.'i  in  .'-t:-..  jrm  water !  Marvelously  con- 
venient for  the  quick,  safe  laundering  of  dainty  things. 


e  1M1    P.  A  G.  Co. 


It  must   be  Spring! 

When  the  song  of  a  new  season 
sings  in  your  blood,  and  every 
ribbon  of  road  that  unwinds  is  a 
highway  to  adventure,  then  .  .  . 
follow  new  trails!  And  with  the 
breath  of  returning  spring,  mingle 


the   fragrance  of   a   well-loved 


cigarette 


.  a  cigarette  which  is 
laden  with  sunshine,  mellow  with 
the  choicest  leaves  of  fine  tobaccos 
.  .  .  more  satisfying  than  any 
other  you  will  ever  find.  There's 
onlv   one  like  that:    It's   Camel. 


©  1931,  R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco  Co.,  Winston-Salem,  IS.  C. 


DOROTHY 
JORDAN 


$5,000  in 

Cash   Prizes 


The 

Troubles 

of  Gloria 
SWANSON 


Q<b 


y^yj^    /UJJTLCL^  . .  ^M>ihj^^     . 


the. 


THE      NEW      SURF      SUITS      WITH  ^^<L 

EVENING    GOWN    BACKS 


We  rather  thought  the  new  "Surf  Suits" 
would  create  a  sensation.  And  they  have! 
At  Miami  ...  at  Palm  Beach  .  .  .  along 
all  Southern  waters  .  .  .  their  evening 
gown  backs,  their  high  waistlines,  their 
gay  and  charming  colors,  have  made 
them  the  most  talked  of  among  all  the 
new  bathing  suits. 

Small  wonder  that  women  who  go 
from  North  to  South  and  back  again, 
with  the  seasons,  should  approve  their 
smartness.  Small  wonder,  too,  that 
women  to  whom  the  daily  swim  is  a  rite 
should  applaud  the  way  their  fit  lends 
swiftness  to  the  stroke!  For  months 
before  the  new   "Surf  Suits"   were  an- 


nounced, we  consulted  with  stylists  and 
artists.  It  was  one  of  the  most  brilliant 
of  them  all  who  suggested  the  "backs 
and  the  high  waistline  of  the  very  ioveli- 
cst  of  the  new  evening  gowns!"  And 
New  York  artists  chose  the  final  colors 
to  be  used. 

But  these  new  "Surf  Suits"  must  not 
only  be  smart — they  must  fit  so  perfectly 

BVD 


REG.    U.    S.    PAT.    OFF. 


Copyright  1931.  The  B.V.D.  Compuy.  Inc. 

that  not  a  single  swimming  muscle  would 
be  cramped  in  action. 

So  swimming  experts — including  that 
champion  of  champions,  "Johnny"  Weiss- 
muller — gave  us  points.  And  every  one  of 
them  is  incorporated  in  the  new  "Surf 
Suits." 

At  last,  after  months  of  designing  and 
redesigning  and  designing  again — the 
new  "Surf  Suits"  were  ready. 

Have  you  seen  them — the  new  "Surf 
Suits"  with  the  evening-gown  backs  and 
the  high  waistline?  Ask  to  see  them — 
before  you  choose  a  new  bathing  suit  for 
a  new  season!  The  B.V.D.  Company, 
Inc.,  New  York  City. 


PH0T0P1  w    M  u.a/im     i  ok    |i  m      1931 


Is  Pink ToOtll  Brush  really  serious? 


A  ( !om  oration  beta  eeu 
\ on  and  \ our  Dentist! 


lpana  toothpaste 


I  ( )l '       Is  "pink  tooth  bruih"  really  serious! 

mi:    It   can   I>c.    But    its  seriousness    largely 
depends  on  how  long  \ou  have  had  it. 

You:  I'tc  had  it  quite  a  long  tirr.t  for  yeari,  I  sup- 
pose. I  remember  I  u  as  rather  u  orrttd  u  hen  I 
jutt  not  net!  that  my  gums  uere  t  ^Itd 

tmrilj.   II  '/•>   \houLl  I  hate  "pink  tooth  brush"! 
I  t.ike  such  awfully  good  care  of  my  teeth.' 

Hi  n  i  ist :  Anybody  may  have  "pink  tooth  brush'*! 
Modern  diet,  you  sec.  Soft  foods.  The  gums 
need  exercise  to  keep  them  healthy,  just 
as  one's  muscles  need  work.  Without  exer- 
cise- work,  if  you  please — your  gums  grow 
logy  and  dull.  They  get  soft— a  bit  flabby— 
and  in  time  they  begin  to  bleed. 

Too:  And  after  that? 

Dentist:  Well,  "pink  tooth  brush"  makes  it  easy 
for  any  one  of  an  entire  group  of  gum 
troubles  to  get  a  start.  Vincent's  disease,  for 
instance,  gingivitis.  Sometimes,  even  pyor- 
rhea, though  that  particular one  is  rather  rare. 

Voi  :   /  haten't  any  of  those  terrible  things,  haie  I! 

Di  ntist:  You'd  probably  know  it  if  you  did!  But 
there's  another  reason  to  stop  "pink  tooth 
brush"  quickly!  An  unhealthy  condition  of 
the  gums  is  likely  to  spoil  the  natural  polish 
of  your  teeth.  Neglect  it  and  the  roots  of 
some  may  even  become  infected.  And  that 
may  threaten  some  of  your  sound  teeth. 

Y'ou:  No,  thanks.  I'll  get  rid  of  the  "pink  tooth  brush" 
in  itead  of  my  teeth!  H  'hat' s  this  about  massaging 
Ipana  Tooth  Paste  into  the  gums,  to  stop  "pink 
tooth  brush"! 

Dentist:  Ipana  has  ziratol  in  it.  Ziratol  is  what 
we  dentists  use  for  toning  and  stimulating 
the  gums  back  to  health.  You  sec,  Ipana  plus 
massage  speeds  up  circulation  and  firms  the 
gum  walls.  Try  it.  Just  clean  your  teeth  with 
Ipana.  Then  massage  some  more  Ipana  lightly 
into  your  gums.  Once  or  twice  a  day.  In  a 
month  or  so  your  gums  should  be  consider- 
ably harder  and  healthier  than  they  arc 
right  at  this  minute. 


BRISTOL-MYERS  CO  .  Dcpt.  1-61 
73  VCest  Street.  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Kindly  send  me  ■  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH  PASTE. 
Enclosed  is  i  two-cent  stamp  to  cover  partly  the  cost  of  pick- 
ing and  mailing. 

Kame 


Street 
OtJ 


.State. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


Your  Facori/e  Start! 


Harold  Llovd  •  Marlbnb  Dietrich 
Marx  Brothers-  Mauricb  Chevalibr 
Ruth  Chatterton  •  Gary  Cooper 
Nancy  Carroll  •  Gborgb  Bancroft 
Clara  Bow  •  Tallllah  Bankhbad 
Jack  Oakjb  •  Richard  Arlbn-  Fred- 
ric  March  •  Claudbttb  Colbert 
Phillips  Holmes-  PaulLukas-  Jackib 
Coogan  •  Clive  Brook  •  Sylvia  Sidney 
and  more  ! 


Your  Farorite  Storie*! 

"A  Farewell  to  Arms".  "24  Hours" 
"Stepdaughters  of  War"  -  "No 
Onb  Man"  •  "An  American  Tragedy" 
"The  Smiling  LiEUTENANT"(Chev«iier) 
"Lives   op   a    Bengal    Lancer" 

"MONKBY      BUSINBSS"      (Mini      Bros.) 

"Huckleberry  Fjnn"  •    ond70mwt! 


1912!  Movies  in  their  infancy.  Adolph  Zukor  visions 
a  mighty  dream !  Wholesome  entertainment  for  all 
—  young  and  old,  rich  and  poor  alike!  Across  the 
screen  thunders  the  first  long  motion  picture  — im- 
mortal Sarah  Bernhardt  in  "Queen  Elizabeth"! 
Since  that  time  Paramount  has  been  known  every- 
where as  the  greatest  name  in  entertainment. 

PARAMOUNT   PUBLIX   CORP..   ADOLPH   ZUKOR. 


1931  !  Paramount's  greatest  triumph  !  The  20th  Birth- 
day Jubilee  Program  for  1931-2.  Your  Theatre 
Manager  is  arranging  now  for  the  pictures  you  will 
see  in  1931-2.  Tell  him  now  that  you  want  to  see 
this  program  of  75  marvelous  entertainments,  the 
climax  of  20  years  of  supremacy!  "If  it's  a  Para- 
mount Picture  it's  the  best  show  in  town!" 

P  R  E  S  .  .     PARAMOUNT      BLDC.    NEW      YORK     CITY 


^paramount  |jl  Cpldure± 


P  L  AY 


T li  a  w  o r Id'i  l.  <•  .1  ■!  i  n  a  Motion  Pic tu i  a  I'  ublica  I  i  o  n 


\..l   \\\\  No.  I 


J  \M1.S   R.  Qj  URk,  Editor  and  Publisher 


June,  1931 


•. 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Maga-ine  Gold  Medal  for 
the    best   picture   of   the   year 

1920  1921  1926 

"HUMOR-         "The  "BEAU 

ESQUE"    COVERED         GESTE" 
WAGON" 

1921  1924  1927 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 

1922  1925  1928 

"ROBIN      "THE  BIG  "FOUR 

HOOD"        PARADE"  SONS" 

1929 

"DISRAELI" 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets  .     .     .     .     It 

Friendly  Advice  on  Gills' 
Problems 16 

These  New  Faces Si 

Hollywood  Menus V> 

Questions  and  Answers      ...  M 

Addresses  of  the  Stars       ....  96 

Casts  of  Current  Photoplays       .      .  14!> 


High-Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close-Ups  and  Long-Shotfl Iambi  B.Qcnu 

With  Skippy  on  the  Set Babbi  L 

The  Screen  Social  Event  of  the  Month 

[f  a  Baby  Kepi  a  Diary Cabi  i       I 

Supporting  Attractions  :ih 

$5,000  in  Prizes ...  40 

The  Troubles  of  Gloria BtjthBibri  16 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood    ....  50 

A  Writer'-  Alibi 54 

Seymour — Photoplay's  Style  Authority 61 

$2,000  for  Your  Picture  Idea 70 

Voting  Begins! .72 

Reeling  Around I      habd  Hall  SO 

Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 8 

The  Shadow  Stage 56 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 88 

Personalities 

The  Girl  on  the  Cover      ....                 G 

Clara  Bow 

Beauty  at  Any  Cost 34 

Retired  at  Eleven Leonard  Hall 

Hollywood's  Newest  Romance Both  Bibbt  4!) 

Anita  Page 60 

Am  I  an  Actor? Cal  Yobb  65 

They  Saved  His  Life  with  Laughter! Fbannb  North  66 

She  Wants  to  Thrill  Us  to  Tear-'                  ....  Harry  Laho  67 

She  Has  Hollywood's  Number Katherinb  Albebi 


Short  Stories 


Plane  Love 

Pale  Hands  I  Loved 


Charlbs  I.  McGriRK 
Margaret  E.  Saxgster     40 


Published  monthly  by  ihe  Photoplay  Pvblishing  Co. 
Editorial  Offices.  221  W.  57th  St..  New  York  City  Publishing  Office.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave..  Chicago,  111. 

The  International  News  Company.  Ltd..  DistributingAgents,  5  Bream's  Building.  London.  England 

James  R.  Quirk.  President  Robert  ML  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathryn  Dougherty.  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  S2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba;  S3. no  Canada;  S3.50  for  foreign  countries.     Remittances 

should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    Caution — Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24.  1912.  at  the  Postoffice  at  Chicago.  IP  .  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879. 

Copyright.  1931.  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company,  Chicago 


The  Girl 


on 


the  Cover 


DOROTHY  JORDAN  — a 
little  Southern  girl  from 
Clarksville,  Tenn. — 
pretty,  unaffected — ob- 
viously untouched  by  the  more 
cruel  aspects  of  the  world  —  how 
does  she  so  strikingly  play  her 
dramatic  roles  in  pictures? 

It's  one  of  Hollywood's  current 
brain-cudgelers. 

How  can  this  gentle  child,  who 
very  evidently  hasn't  "lived,"  in 
the  modern  sense  of  the  word,  be 
the  fine  dramatic  success  she's  be- 
come since  her  stunning  work  in 
"Min  and  Bill"? 

Is  she  a  human  sponge  who 
soaks  up  the  power  and  emotion 
of  her  directors?  Or  has  she,  be- 
neath her  calm  surface,  a  true 
artistic  vision  and  a  well-spring 
of  powerful  emotion? 

We  asked  her  what  was  the 
most  dramatic  emotion  of  her  life. 
She  tried  desperately  to  think  of 
one.  At  last  she  told  of  a  time 
when  she  competed  in  some  sort  of 
inter-city  scholastic  dramatic  con- 
test. She  was  so  worn  out  from 
worry  about  her  impending  gradu- 
ation, and  so  weary  from  class 
parties  and  dances,  that  when  the 
time  for  her  tryout  came  she 
fainted  on  the  stage. 

AND   that  was   Dorothy  Jor- 
dan's most  dramatic  moment 
before  entering  pictures! 

Dorothy  left  Clarksville  for 
New  York,  where  she  studied 
dramatics,  worked  in  a  chorus 
without  being  even  slightly 
touched  by  the  environment,  and 
came  to  Hollywood.  At  first  she 
was  far  from  a  success.  Then, 
without  warning,  she  blossomed 
out  as  a  Grade-A  dramatic  actress! 

She's  a  spritely,  amusing  girl  of 
whom  mothers  would  approve  as  a 
sweetheart  for  Junior.  She  dresses 
simply — and  it's  a  safe  bet  that 
not  a  soul  would  take  her  for  an 
actress  if  they  didn't  know.   She's 

the  type  one  associates  with  strolling  in  moonlit  gardens  with 
adoring  swains.  She's  the  sort  that  should  be  protected  from 
life. 

Yet,  here  we  find  her  cutting  loose  with  some  pretty  strenuous 
dramatic  roles  in  the  toughest,  most  heart-breaking,  bitterest 
racket  in  the  world.  What's  more,  she's  beat  the  game  at 
which  many  a  seasoned  trouper  has  played,  and  flopped  dis- 
mally. 

It's  enough  to  make  even  a  good  guesser  give  up! 

IT  may  even  be  that  this  lack  of  actual  life  experience  does 
the  trick.  She  saves  herself  and  her  emotions  for  her  work 
and  does  not  scatter  them  as  more  avid  and  more  careless 
people  do. 

Ramon  Novarro  helped  her  in  this.  When  Dorothy  came  to 
Hollywood  she  was  more  excited  than  the  dizziest  fan  from  Bird 
Creek.     Just  being  in  a  studio  was  enough  to  send  her  ga-ga 


Very  much  in  the  Hollywood  swim,  this 
Dorothy  Jordan  girl,  and  you  can  take 
that  two  ways.  Here  she  is  in  her  new 
white  bathing  suit  at  the  Pacific's  edge. 
She  seems  to  be  devoutly  hoping  for 
some  fine  new  dramatic  roles  at  Metro 


with  thrills.  She  used  to  arrive  on 
the  lot  at  seven  in  the  morning  so 
she'd  have  plenty  of  time  to  put 
on  her  make-up. 

Novarro  scolded  her,  in  his 
nicest  way. 

LOOK  here,  Dorothy,"  he  told 
her,  "in  this  business  you 
must  save  your  energy.  Don't 
spend  what  power  you  don't  have 
to.  Put  your  make-up  on  at  home 
and  you  won't  have  to  leave  the 
house  till  eight-thirty." 

Sound  advice,  and  Dorothy 
took  it.  She  saw  that  her  con- 
stant state  of  excitement  over 
whatever  had  to  do  with  her 
career  was  sapping  her  vitality, 
her  emotional  power.  She  de- 
cisively and  snappily  stopped, 
and  began  pouring  her  young 
energy  into  her  work. 

Hear  Dorothy  herself. 

"When  the  studio  wants  me  to 
do  anything,  I  want  to  be  able  to 
do  it!" 

She  took  singing,  dancing  and 
voice-placement  instruction.  She 
acquired  conversational  French. 
She  readied  herself  for  big  things 
— and  they  came. 

It  isn't  true  that  she  lives  a 
cloistered  life.  She  has  plenty  of 
beaux,  and  goes  to  parties  without 
her  mother.  But  Dorothy,  her- 
self, chooses  a  quiet  life — she 
needs  her  strength  for  the 
camera. 

SHE  isn't  extravagant,  though 
her  mother  handles  her  finances. 
When  she  was  getting  a  pretty 
good  salary,  she  decided  that  it 
would  be  pleasant  to  move  from 
their  furnished  duplex  apartment 
into    a    little    nicer   place.      She 
found  an  unfurnished  apartment 
that  she  loved.    It  rented  for  $100 
a  month  but  it  meant  that  the 
furniture  from  Clarksville  would 
have  to  be  shipped.    "I'll  have  to 
wait    a    while,"    Dorothy    said. 
"My  contract  may  not  be  renewed.     I'd  rather  not  go  in  so 
deep  until  I  know  I  can." 

Now,  of  course,  she  can  plunge  a  bit.  She,  her  mother  and 
sister  live  in  a  charming  place  at  the  beach. 

Although,  particularly  when  she  tasted  the  first  drop  of 
success,  it  thrilled  her  to  be  recognized  and  pointed  out  by 
fans  as  "the  girl  who's  in  Ramon  Novarro's  picture,"  she  is 
essentially  a  modest  person.  During  the  making  of  "Min  and 
Bill"  an  important  magazine  editor  came  on  the  set.  Every 
member  of  the  cast  was  introduced  to  him  and  then  Marie 
Dressier  said,  "But  you  haven't  met  the  most  charming  one  of 
all.      Where's   Dorothy?" 

And  there,  away  from  the  others,  in  a  remote  corner,  sat 
Dorothy  who  had  not  come  up  to  the  visitor  as  the  rest  had. 
And  this  is  not  a  pose.  It  was  simply  that  she  considered  her- 
self less  important  than  the  others.  Sweet  kid,  this  Dorothy 
Jordan,  and  a  skilful  actress! 


Photoplay  Magazine  ros  Ji  m.  1931 


GEORGE 


W*U9  fc.ii// 


\v 


THE  MILLIONAIRE 

George  Arliss  in  his  first  modern  role!  A  merry  gentleman 
of  the  old  school  who  hecame  a  millionaire  at  30,  a  semi- 
invalid  at  40,  and  a  playboy  at  fifty.  His  doctor  thought  the 
pace  was  too  swift  for  him  —  so  he  retired,  but  his  idea  of 
the  quiet  life  would  put  an  ordinary  man  in  the  sanitarium! 
See  him  in  "The  Millionaire"  and  you'll  understand  why 
the  great  army   of  Arliss   fans   is   always   growing  greater. 


// 


Based  on  "Idle  TTancl«~l>v  FARI.  Dl  HI!  RIGGERS 

.-.  r.-on  play  by  J.    Jo«rph-..n  A    M.iuilr  T.  Powell 
Dialogue    In    Booth   Tarkington 

Directed  by  JOHN   ADOLFI 

Vitaphon*  ■    ||    thr    rrgittrmi    tmdr-mark 
of   The    Vitaphone  Carporattan 


DAVID  MANNERS 
EVALYN  KNAPP 
JAMES  CAGNEY 
NOAH  BEERY 
IVAN      SIMPSON 


A  WARNER  BROS.  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 

■^Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


AFRICA  SPEAKS— Columbia.— Interesting  trav- 
elogue  with  animal  thrills,  considerably  dramatized. 

But  it  lias  a  kick.     (Dec.) 

ALMOST  A  HONEYMOON— British  Inter- 
national.— A  light  bedroom  farce.  The  gags  would 
have  been  funny  ten  years  ago.  Very  mild.     (March) 

ALOHA  — Rogell  Tiffany  Production.— The  old 
"Bird  of  Paradise"  plot  made  over  for  the  talkies. 
Some  quite-good  comedy  and  a  lot  of  surefire  sob 
stuff.  Ben  Lyon  and  Raquel  Torres  work  hard. 
(March) 

ALONG  CAME  YOUTH— Paramount.— Just  a 
Unlit  Charles  (ex-Huddy)  Rogers  picture,  with  laughs 
from  Stuart  Erwin.  Nobody  sings,  anyway.  And 
that's  something.      (Dec.) 

ANYBODY'S  GI  RL— Columbia.— A  realistic 
story  of  a  taxi-dancer's  disillusionment.  Barbara 
Stanwyck  ana  Ricardo  Cortez  are  great.    (Feb.) 

ATLANTIC— British  International.— English  dia- 
logue may  bore  you,  but  the  melodrama  must  have 
breii  based  on  the  Titanic  catastrophe  and  it  affords 
some  creditable  sea  thrills.     (Dec.) 

BACHELOR  APARTMENT— Radio  Pictures.— 
The  superb  direction  and  acting  of  Lowell  Sherman 
make  this  sophisticated  story  interesting  from  start  to 
finish.  Mae  Murray  returns  as  a  modern  vamp,  a 
restless  married  woman.     Splendid  cast.     (May) 

BACHELOR  FATHER,  THE— M-G-M  —  Marion 
Davies  at  her  best  in  a  sprightly,  sophisticated  com- 
edy.   Good  for  one  million  laughs.    (Feb.) 

BAD  SISTER— Universal.— Sidney  Fox,  talented 
little  newcomer,  plays  the  title  role  in  this  entirely 
natural  story  based  on  Booth  Tarkington's  "The 
Flirt."    Conrad  Nagel  is  the  hero.    (May) 

•  BAT  WHISPERS,  THE— United  Artists.— 
Daddy  of  all  scare  movies,  and  it's  a  lulu. 
The  cameramen  and  Chester  Morris  share  first 
honors.      (Jan.) 

•  BEAU  IDEAL— Radio  Pictures.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Devil's  Battalion") — A 
spectacular  sequel  to  "  Beau  Geste,"  made  with  many 
of  the  same  actors.  A  great  picture  in  which  Ralph 
Forbes,  Loretta  Young  and  Don  Alvarado  do  great 
work.    (Feb.) 

BEHIND  OFFICE  DOORS— Radio  Pictures  — 
Mary  Astor  fine  as  the  clever  secretary  who  helps  her 
boss  (Robert  Ames)  to  rise  to  importance  in  the  in- 
dustrial world.     Interesting  story.     (April) 

BEYOND  VICTORY— RKO-Pathe  —  Poor  war 
film,  starring  Bill  Boyd.  ZaSu  Pitts,  Lew  Cody  and 
Jimmy  Gleason  make  the  effort  but  can't  do  much  for 
this  one.      (May) 

BIG  BUSINESS  GIRL— First  National.— Lively 
comedy  of  1931  styles  in  business  and  love.  Plenty  of 
laughs,  some  thrills,  Ricardo  Cortez,  Frank  Albertson 
and  Loretta  Young  in  prettv  clothes.  A  good  movie. 
(May) 

BIG  MONEY— Pathe—  Eddie  Quillan's  luck  at 
cards  drags  him  among  the  big-time  gamblers.  But 
it's  all  a  lot  of  fun  and  Eddie's  fresh  wisecracks  will 
convulse  you.      (Jan.) 

•  BILLY  THE  KID— M-G-M.— Johnny  Mack 
Brown  gives  the  show  of  his  life  as  tile  boy  out- 
law. Not  history.  But  who  wants  history?  The 
movie's  a  pip.     (Dec.) 

•  BLUE  ANGEL,  THE— UFA-Paramount.— 
Emil  Jannings'  first  talkie  in  English.  And  it's 
a  knockout.  So  is  Marlene  Dietrich  as  the  woman 
who  drives  a  man  mad.    (Feb.) 

BODY  AND  SOUL— Fox.— See  this  one.  Great 
entertainment.  Charlie  Farrell  and  Elissa  I. audi 
(from  the  stage).  You'll  like  her.  Myrna  Loy  is  the 
mean  one.     (.1  pril) 

BOUDOIR  DIPLOMAT.  THE— Universal.— 
Sophisticated  comedy,  cleverly  acted  by  Betty  Comp- 
son  and  Ian  Keith.  A  few  dull  moments  but  many  de- 
lightful ones,  subtly  naughty.     (Dec.) 

8 


BROTHERS— Columbia.— Bert  Lytell  acts  a 
dual  role  in  a  mildly  effective  melodramatic  thriller. 
(Jan.) 

BY    ROCKET   TO   THE   MOON— UFA.— The 

Germans  present  an  interesting  lesson  in  astronomy, 
if  you  like  astronomy.     (April) 

CAT  CREEPS,  THE  — Universal.— Your  old 
friend,  "The  Cat  and  the  Canary,"  now  a  talkie. 
Shivers  and  thrills!  A  wow  scare-movie.  Neil  Hamil- 
ton leads  a  great  cast.     (Dec.) 

CAUGHT  CHEATING— Tiffany  Productions.— 
George  Sidney  and  Charlie  Murray  get  tangled  with 
a  Chicago  gangster's  wife  and  are  taken  for  a  ride. 
Fast-moving  and  pretty  good  fun.      (March) 

CHARLEY'S  AUNT— Columbia.— The  old  farce 
is  still  funny.    Charles  Ruggles  makes  it  worth  seeing 

again.      (Jan.) 


The  Story  Entitled 

Hollywood's  Age 
of  Fear 

will  not  appear  in  this  issue 
as  announced  last  month  but 
it  will  be  in  next  month's 

Photoplay 

and  is 

Worth  Waiting  For 


CHARLIE  CHAN  CARRIES  ON— Fox.— Grand 
mystery  with  lots  of  thrills  and  romance.  Warner 
Oland  marvelous  as  Chan.  John  Garrick  and  Mar- 
guerite Churchill  are  the  love  interest.     (April) 

•  CHECK  AND  DOUBLE  CHECK— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Amos  'n'  Andy  materialize  on  the 
screen,  with  Kingfish  and  the  Fresh  Air  Taxi!  Dis 
am  entertainment!     (Dec.) 

CHILDREN  OF  DREAMS— Warners.— A  musi- 
cal which  you  can  miss  and  think  nothing  of  it. 
{April) 

CHISELERS  OF  HOLLYWOOD— Willis  Kent 
Productions. — First-rate  entertainment.  Hokum, 
humor  and  heart.  Phyllis  Barrington,  a  newcomer, 
does  great  work.    (Feb.) 

•  CIMARRON— Radio  Pictures.— The  thrilling 
story  of  the  pioneer  West,  superbly  transferred 
to  the  screen.  Richard  Dix  re-establishes  himself  as 
a  star,  and  heads  a  remarkable  cast.    (Feb.) 

•  CITY  LIGHTS— Chaplin-United  Artists. — 
The  one  and  only  Chaplin  makes  another 
masterpiece.  Magnificent  comedy  and  heartbreak- 
ing pathos  intermingled.  You  can  see  it  again  and 
again.      (March) 

COHENS  AND  KELLYS  IN  AFRICA.  THE— 
Universal. — Charlie  Murray  and  George  Sidney.  A 
scream  from  start  to  finish.      (Jan.) 


COMMAND    PERFORMANCE,    THE— Cruze- 

Tiffany  Productions. — A  bright  and  spicy  comedy 
about  one  of  those  engaging  mythical  kingdoms. 
Neil  Hamilton  is  simply  grand.    (Feb.) 

COMRADES  OF  1918— Forenfilms.— Gruesome, 
harrowing  German  talkie  follows  the  fortunes  of  four 
young  Teuton  soldiers  in  the  last  year  of  the  late  war. 
Don't  take  the  children.    (May) 

CONCENTRATIN"  KID,  THE— Universal- 
Hoot  Gibson  falls  in  love  with  a  radio  voice.  A 
weak-sister  for  Hoot.      (Jan.) 

•  CONNECTICUT  YANKEE,  A— Fox— Its 
better  than  the  silent  version  and  you'll  love 
Will  Rogers.  William  Farnum  and  Myrna  Loy  are 
excellent.  Maureen  O'Sullivan  and  Frank  Albertson 
supply  the  love  interest.     (April) 

CONOUERING  HORDE,  THE— Paramount.— 
Dick  Arlen  makes  this  Western  fine  entertainment. 
Fay  Wray  adorable  as  the  girl.     (April) 

COSTELLO  CASE,— Sono  Art— James  Cruze.— 
The  sweethearts  are  suspected  of  murder  again. 
Tom  Moore  is  the  wise  copper.  Pretty  obvious 
melodrama.     (Jan.) 

CRACKED  NUTS— Radio  Pictures.— Wheeler 
and  Woolsey  in  a  rush  of  dialogue  to  the  screen,  and 
not  very  good  dialogue.    Amusing  in  spots.     (April) 

•CRIMINAL  CODE,  THE— Columbia.— Don't 
miss  this  powerful  prison  drama.  You'll  never 
forget  it.  Walter  Huston  and  Phillips  Holmes  head  a 
brilliant  cast.     (Feb.) 

DAMAGED  LOVE— Sono  Art— World  Wide  — 
Pretty  mild.  June  Collyer's  charm  and  dimples 
save  it  from  being  an  entire  waste  of  time.      (March) 

DANCE  FOOLS,   DANCE— M-G-M— Fast  and 

thrilling  entertainment.  Joan  Crawford  again  proves 
herself  a  great  dramatic  actress.  Billy  Bakewcll  fine 
as  the  weak  young  brother  who  falls  in  with  gang- 
sters.     (March) 

DANCERS,  THE— Fox.— A  rambling,  younger 
generation  drama  which  isn't  at  its  best  on  the  screen. 
The  players,  including  Lois  Moran  and  Phillips 
Holmes,  do  their  best.    (Feb.) 

DAWN  TRAIL,  THE— Columbia.— A  good  Buck 
Jones  Western  with  a  rip-roarin'  fight  between  the 
sheep  and  cattle  men.    (Feb.) 

DERELICT— Paramount.— Big  Boy  Bancroft  and 
William  (stage)  Boyd  fight  a  grand  fight.  And  there 
are  lots  of  storms  at  sea.   Why  sorry  about  the  Btory? 

(Dec.) 

•  DEVIL  TO  PAY,  THE— United  Artists-Sam- 
uel Goldwyn. — Ronnie  Colman  breezes  through 
a  tasty,  spicy  little  comedy.  Great  cast,  sparkling 
dialogue  and  finished  production.    (Feb.) 

DICH  HAB  ICH  GELIEBT  (Because  I  Loved 
You) — AAFA-Tobis. — Though  it's  in  German,  you 
needn't  understand  the  language  to  enjoy  this  sweet 
love  story.      (Jan.) 

•  DIRIGIBLE— Columbia.— Thrilling  melo- 
drama of  adventure  at  the  South  Pole.  The 
Navy  helped  make  it  and  the  airplane  and  dirigible 
shots  leave  you  breathless.  Ralph  Graves,  Jack  Holt 
and  Fay  Wray  take  high  honors.     (May) 

•  DISHONORED  — Paramount.— Marlene 
Dietrich  exciting  as  an  Austrian  spy  in  a  tense 
story,  splendidly  directed.  Victor  McLaglen  great  as 
the  Russian  officer.    (May) 

DIVORCE    AMONG    FRIENDS.— Warners. 

— Heigh  ho,  the  husband  and  wife  quarrel  and  make 
upl    Lew  Cody  is  the  only  bright  spot.    (Dec.) 

DOCTORS'  WIVES— Fox— Joan  Bennett.  War- 
ner Baxter  and  Victor  Varconi  in  a  story  of  jealousy. 
Not  very  convincing.     (April) 

DON'T  BET  ON  WOMEN— Fox.— Husbands, 
wives  and  lovers  mix-up.  Good  adult  entertainment, 
with  smart  dialogue.  Roland  Young,  Edmund  Lowe, 
Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Una  Merkel  make  the  most 
of  their  parts.    (April) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  10  ] 


Phototoai  Maoahni   roa  Junk,  19.U 


They're  off  again  on  a  ram  page  —  FlaggandQuirt 
—the  world-popular  characters  created  by  Lau- 
rence Stallings  and  Maxwell  Anderson,  and  made 
famous  by  Victor  McLaglen  and  Edmund  Lowe,  in 
"what  price  glory"  and  "the  cock  eyed  world". 


Flagg  and  Quirt  —  leathernecks,  fightin',  lovin' 
fools  — in  a  delirious  love-loop  'round  the  world 
—  dallying  with  damsels  of  sheer  delight  — loving 
a  harem  of  luscious  ladies  — a  gorgeous  joyride 
of  laughs  exceeding  your  most  fantastic  dreams. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


DRACULA — Universal. — A  mystery  story  full  of 
and   thrills.      Helen  Chandler  grand  as  the 
terrified  heroine.     (March) 

DRUMS  OF  JEOPARDY,  THE— Tiffany  Prod, 
itery  melodrama  with  enough  murders  to 
the  bloodthirsty.  <  Sood  i  .i-t  beaded  by  Warner  Oland 

and  June  Collyer.     (April) 

EASIEST  WAY,  THE—  M-G-M.— A  modern 
sophisticated  story,  beautifully  directed.  Constance 
Bennett,  Adolphe  Menjou,  Anita  Page  and  Bob 
Montgomery  do  some  grand  acting — and  what 
costumes!     (March) 

EAST  IS  WEST— Universal.— Lupe  Velra  plays 
Ming  Toy.  Edward  G.  Robinson  is Chtnaiown Charlie. 
They  should  have  made  the  old  play  convincing,  but 
something  went  wrong.      (Dec.) 

•  EAST  LYNNE— Fox.— Don't  miss  this  one. 
Beautiful,  artistic  production  of  the  heart- 
breaking old  melodrama.  Ann  Harding  captivat- 
ingly  beautiful.  Fine  support  by  Conrad  Nagel  and 
Clive  Brook.     (April) 

ESCAPE— Associated  Radio  Pictures.— An  Eng- 
lish talkie  about  an  escaped  prisoner.  Far  too 
talkie.     (Jan.) 

EX-FLAME— Liberty  Productions.— Your  old 
friend  "East  Lynne"  dressed  up  in  modern  clothes 
and  played  by  Norman  Kerry  and  Marian  Nixon. 
Old-fashioned  and  unconvincing.     (Jan.) 

EXTRAVAGANCE— Tiffany  Productions.— Fash- 
ions and  passions  blended  in  a  display  that  will  make 
the  audience  gasp.     Don't  take  Junior.     (Dec.) 

FAIR  WARNING— Fox.— George  O'Brien  as  the 
honest  Western  lad  who  slays  the  wicked  villain  and 
wins  the  girl.     (Jan.) 

FAST  AND  LOOSE— Paramount.— A  pleasant 
little  comedy  about  the  rich  girl  who  falls  in  love  with 
the  working  man.  Miriam  Hopkins  debuts  success- 
fully as  the  girl.    (Feb.) 

•  FATHER'S  SON— First  National.— A  simple 
story,  fine  and  human.  Lewis  Stone.  Irene 
Rich,  Leon  Janney.  Here  are  actors — and  a  notable 
film.     (Dec.) 

•     FEET    FIRST— Paramount.— Harold    Lloyd 
rings  the  bell  again — with  both  feet.     You'll 
shriek  and  squeal.     (Dec.) 

FIFTY  MILLION  FRENCHMEN— Warners.— 

American  tourists  in  Paris.  Moves  so  fast  it  leaves 
you  weak.  One  good  gag  after  another.  Don't 
miss  it.      (March) 

FIGHTING  CARAVANS— Paramount.— Your 
old  friend,  "The  Covered  Wagon."  gone  talkie  just  a 
bit  late.  The  scenes  are  beautiful  and  Ernest  Tor- 
rence  and  Tully  Marshall  are  on  hand  in  their  original 
rdles.    (Feb.) 

FIGHTING  THRU  —  Tiffany  Productions.  — 
Worth  the  price  of  admission.  Ken  Maynard  and 
his  horse  "Tarzan"  do  some  fine  work  and  the 
beautiful  Jeanette  Loff  helps  considerably.      (March) 

FINGER  POINTS,  THE— First  National.— Dick 
Barthelmess  as  a  reporter  for  one  of  Chicago's  biggest 
newspapers,  gets  in  with  gangsters.  An  intensely 
absorbing  story.  Fay  Wray  and  Regis  Toomey  give 
splendid  support.     (Slay) 

FINN  AND  HATTIE— Paramount.— One  long 
howl.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Haddock's  trip  abroad  ruined  by 
a  fiendish  nephew  and  a  daughter,  played  well  by 
Jackie  Searl  and  Mitzi  Green.     (April) 


FLAME  OF  LOVE,  THE— British  International. 
— Anna  May  Wong  as  a  Chinese  vamp  in  Russia. 
But  it  really  matters  very  little.      (Jan.) 

FOLLOW  THE  LEADER— Paramount.— Ed 
Wynn's  a  howl  in  this  dandy  transcription  of  his  stage 
hit,  "Manhattan  Mary."  A  musical  comedy,  but 
it's  a  honey.     (Dec.) 

FOR  THE  LOVE  O'  LIL— Columbia.— Naughty 
in  a  very  nice  way,  this  story  of  married  life  managi  s 
to  be  reasonably  entertaining.  Jack  Mulhall.  Sally 
Starr.  Elliott  Nugent  and  Margaret  Livingston  play 
it      (Feb.) 

FOUND — Ralph  P.  King  Productions. — Australia 
sponsored  this  travel  film.  It's  excellent,  except  for  a 
goofy  ending.     (Dec.) 

FREE  LOVE— Universal.— Conrad  Nagel  and 
Genevieve  Tobin  demonstrate  what  to  do  when  a 
woman  takes  up  psycho-analysis.  An  amusing  com- 
edy.    (Feb.) 

•  FRONT  PAGE,  THE— United  Artists- 
Whirlwind  newspaper  talkie,  full  of  thrills. 
laughs  and  sobs.  You've  simply  got  to  see  it.  Adolphe 
Menjou  great  as  the  managing  editor.     (May) 

•  GANG  BUSTER,  THE  —  Paramount.  — 
Comedy-melodrama  with  Jack  Oakie  at  his 
best.  William  (stage)  Boyd  menaces  as  the  gang 
leader  and  Jean  Arthur  is  the  pretty  heroine.    (March) 

•  GENTLEMAN'S  FATE  —  M-G-M.  —  This 
tense  drama  brings  us  Jack  Gilbert  with  all 
liisold appeal.  The  beautiful  Leila  Hyams  and  Anita 
Page  support  him  and  Louis  Wolheim  gives  a 
flawless   performance.     (March) 

GIRL  FROM  THE  REEPERBAHN,  THE 
(DAS   MAEDEL   VON    DER    REEPERBAHN)— 

Sonor  Prod. — The  Germans  crash  through  with  a 
good  one.  Grim  melodrama  with  plenty  of  action 
and  some  good  songs.     (April) 

GIRLS  DEMAND  EXCITEMENT— Fox.— Mar- 
guerite Churchill,  John  Wayne,  Virginia  Cherrill  and 
William  Janney  are  a  fine  cast  wasted  in  a  story  that 
never  rings  true.    (April) 

GOD'S  GIFT  TO  WOMEN— Warners— Frank 
Fay  is  the  gift — Laura  La  Plante  the  receiver,  but 
after  many  hilarious  complications.  Well  worth  see- 
ing.    (May) 

•  GREAT  MEADOW,  THE— M-G-M.— A  stir- 
ring and  exciting  yarn  of  pioneering,  with 
Eleanor  Boardman  a  brilliant  member  of  the  distin- 
guished cast.    (Feb.) 

GUN  SMOKE— Paramount.— Great  for  the  kids. 
this  old-time  Western  melodrama,  with  Dick  Arlen  as 
a  cowboy,  Mary  Brian,  the  girl,  and  William  Boyd, 
the  menace.    (May) 

HATE  SHIP,  THE— British  International.— A 
fairly  gripping  old-school  melodrama — thrills  and 
mystery  on  board  a  yacht.    (Feb.) 

HEADIN'  NORTH— Tiffany  Productions.— Bob 
Steele  with  his  horse,  cowboy  suit  and  a  coupla  guns. 
A  sizzling  hot  Western.     (J a  n.) 

HEADS  UP— Paramount. —Charles  (ex-Buddy) 
Rogers  in  a  pleasant  little  musical  comedy  about  a 
dashing  coast  guardsman.  Not  historic — except  that 
Buddy  smokes  his  first  cigarette!     (Dec.) 

HELL  BOUND — Cruze-Tiffany  Prod.— Good  gang 
story  if  you're  not  tired  of  them.  Leo  Carrillo  plays 
the  broken-Englished  speakeasy  operator  and  Lola 
Lane  is  completely  charming.     (April) 


HER  WEDDING   NIGHT 

w,  en  negligee  in   Paris. 
in-  nds.     Light,  but  quite  cute. 


•Paramount. — Clara, 
Bedrooms  and  boy 
(Dec.) 


HOLE   IN   THE  WALL,    THE   (Nar    Rosorna 

Sla  Ut)  —  Paramount.  —  Swedish   talkie    brings    us 

1  .ustafsson.  Garbo's  brother,  but  nothing  like 

his   famous    sister.       Light   and    chatty    love    story. 

{April) 

HONOR  AMONG  LOVERS— Paramount.— 
Good  dialogue  in  this  story  of  love  between  boss  and 
secretary,  with  excellent  performances  by  Fredric 
March,  Claudette  Colbert  and  that  Ace  of  Cads. 
Monroe  Owsley.     (May) 

HOOK,  LINE  AND  SINKER— Raaio  Pictures.— 

That's  how  you'll  go  for  this  latest  gem  of  Wheeler- 
Woolsey  nonsense.  The  monkey  business  is  perpe- 
trated in  gangland.    (Feb.) 

HOT  HEIRESS,  THE— First  National.— A  mil- 
lionaire's daughter  on  the  make  for  a  Steel  riveter, 
poor  but  virile.  Loads  of  fun.  Ben  Lyon's  the  gent, 
and  what  a  cutic  is  Ona  Munson!    (Dec.) 

HOW  HE  LIED  TO  HER  HUSBAND— British 
International. — George  Bernard  Shaw  surrenders  to 
the   talkies.     Amusing,  if  you  like  the   Shaw  wit. 

(March) 

•  ILLICIT — Warners. — Another  triumph  for 
Barbara  Stanwyck,  who  plays  a  modern 
maiden  who  wants  love  without  marriage.  A  dar- 
ing film,  strong  and  moving.     (Jan.) 

INSPIRATION— M-G-M.— Garbo  was  never 
lovelierthan  in  this  very  modern  story  of  the  indiscreet 
woman  and  the  price  she  pays.  Lewis  Stone,  Robert 
Montgomery  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  lend  Greta 
strong  support.     (Ftb.) 

IT  PAYS  TO  ADVERTISE— Paramount.— The 
old  stage  play  revamped  for  the  talkies  with  plenty 
of  speed  and  lots  of  laughs.  Skeets  Gallagher,  Nor- 
man Foster  and  Carole  Lombard  head  a  perfect  cast. 

(April) 

•  IT'S  A  WISE  CHILD— M-G-M.— Marion 
Davies'  rare  gift  for  comedy  and  Robert 
Leonard's  direction  make  this  old  stage  play  a  brand 
new  hilarious  farce  not  to  be  missed.    (May) 

JAWS  OF  HELL— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— De- 
picts the  old  poem  "The  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade" 
and  makes  the  charge  a  pretty  thrilling  business.  The 
romantic  story's  a  bit  weak.     (March) 

JAZZ  CINDERELLA,  THE— Chesterfield.— Poor 
girl  captures  rich  boy.  Myrna  Loy  and  Jason  Ro- 
bards  do  as  well  as  they  can.  which  isn't  much.  (Dec.) 

JUNE  MOON — Paramount. — You'll  like  this  one. 
Ring  Lardner  wrote  the  wisecracking  lines  and  Jack 
Oakie  puts  them  over  with  a  bang.     (April) 

•  JUST  IMAGINE— Fox.— Life  in  1980!  Mad 
buffoonerv .  funny,  ironic  and  different.  El 
Brcndel  heads  the  dandy  cast.  Top  entertainment. 
(Dec.) 

JUST  LIKE  HEAVEN— Tiffany  Productions.— A 
simple  little  romance  between  a  toe  dancer  and  a 
balloon  peddler.  Fifteen-year-old  Anita  Louise  is  the 
heroine.    (Feb.) 

KEPT  HUSBANDS— Radio  Pictures.— Lively  en- 
tertainment. Dorothy  Mackaill  and  Joel  McCrea  an 
attractive  pair  and  the  still  beautiful  Clara  Kimball 
Young  returns  to  us.     [April) 

(  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE  12  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list. 


Page 

Born  to  Love— RKO-Pathe 59 

Broad  Minded — First  National 120 

Cheri  Bibi— M-G-M 58 

City  Streets — Paramount 57 

Clearing  the  Range — Allied 121 

Complete  Surrender — M-G-M 59 

Daybreak— M-G-M 58 

Dude  Ranch — Paramount 59 

Fame — First  National 57 

Hell's  Valley— National  Players,  Ltd..  121 


Page 

Indiscreet — United  Artists 58 

Iron  Man — Universal 58 

Ladies'  Man — Paramount 58 

Maltese  Falcon,  The — Warners 57 

Meet  the  Wife — Columbia 120 

Never  the  Twain  Shall  Meet— M-G-M.  59 

Party  Husband — First  National 59 

Public  Fnemy,  The — Warners 59 

Quick  Millions — Fox 56 

Secret  Six,  The— M-G-M 56 


Page 

Seed — Universal 56 

Shipmates— M-G-M 120 

Svengali — Warners 58 

Tarnished  Lady — Paramount 120 

Too  Many  Cooks — Radio  Pictures.  .  .  .120 

Trapped — Big  Four 121 

Virtuous  Husband,  The — -Universal.  .  .  120 
Woman   Between,  The — Radio 

Pictures 120 


Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 88  ] 


PBOTOPI  w   M\(.\/im    xk  J'  m,   1931 


1  1 


THE  VOICE  OM  THE  PHONE «  "listen,  you! 

This  is  a  friend  of  yours,  and  I'm  wuing 
you  up.  The  finger**  oh  youl  They're  goin*  to 

get  you  this  time  sure.  Even  a  reporter  con'l 
get  aicay  with  the  stuff  you've  been  pulling." 

THE  REPORTER:  "  What!  —  say  look  here! 
They  can't  kill  a  reporter:  Why  there's  a  mil- 
lion readers  behind  me  and  a  million  dollars 
tit  hack  me  up.  The  "Press"  tvoidil  hust  this 
town  wide  open  and  all  you  cheap  mobsters 
Would  f(dl  out  through  the  cracks.  They 
can't  kill  a  reporter,  I  tell  you,  they  can't!" 


RICHARD 


BARTHELMESS 


> 


FAY  WRAY 
REGIS  TOOMEY 

ROBERT     ELLIOTT 

HHll  III  II   br   IIOIIUII     IORD 
Dial.. cue  h»  JOHN  MONK  -  VI   Ni.r.RS 

A  John    I' rjn.i.    Dillon    1  rtxluclion 

• 
"f'itnphnne"    is    the    registered    trmtr- 
mark    of    The    lilaphune   L*>rp*>ratn>n 


Dirk  Hart  tidiness  plays  a  new  role.  A  reporter 
in  on  t  he  most  dangerous  secrets  of  gangland. 
His  paper  paid  him  fifty  dollars  a  week  for 
the  "inside  stuff" — hut  the  underworld 
offered  fifty  grand  for  the  news  that  never  got 
into  print.  And  then — his  hest  friend  spilled 
the  *lorv  that  In-  had  never  dared  to  *ritr! 


7Ae  linger  Points 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  &VITARHONE  PICTURE 


// 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  10 


•  KIKI  —  United  Artists. —  Presenting  a  new 
Mary  Pickford,  saucy  and  sophisticated  in  a 
grand  comedy.  You  can  safely  take  the  kids.  Regi- 
nald Denny  is  the  lead.     (April) 

•     KISMET— First     National.— Distinguished 
Otis  Skinner  makes  his  talkie  bow.     Beautiful 
fantasy,  but  fantasy.     (Dec.) 

LADY  REFUSES,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— If  you 
want  a  good  cry,  here's  your  chance.  Rather  an  old 
story,  but  Betty  Compson,  Gilbert  Emery  and  John 
Darrow  make  it  realistic.     (April) 

LADY  SURRENDERS,  A— Universal.— Marital 
woes,  subtly  and  delightfully  described  by  Conrad 
Nagel,  Genevieve  Tobin,  Rose  Hobart  and  Basil 
Rathbone.    A  charming  picture.     (Dec.) 

•  LADY'S  MORALS,  A— M-G-M  —  Introduc- 
ing Grace  Moore,  young  and  beautiful  Metro- 
politan Opera  prima  donna.  A  lovely  voice  and  a 
charming  story,  based  on  the  life  of  Jenny  Lind. 
Reginald  Denny  is  fine  opposite  the  star.     (Dec.) 

LAND  OF  MISSING  MEN,  THE— Tiffany 
Productions. — A  Bob  Steele  Western.  Hard  ridin', 
and  that's  all  there  is  to  it.      (Ju  n.) 

LASH,  THE— First  National. — (Reviewed  under 
the  title  "Adios").  Richard  Barthelmess  as  an  early 
California  Robin  Hood.  Colorful  and  charming. 
You'll  like  it.     (Dec.) 

LAST  OF  THE  LONE  WOLF— Columbia.— The 
perennial  Lone  Wolf  in  the  person  of  ageless  Bert 
Lytell.  After  much  rushing  about,  Bert  preserves  the 
queen's  fair  name  I  It  all  happens  in  mythical 
Saxonia.     (Jan.) 

LAST  PARADE,  THE— Columbia.— Another 
gangster  picture  and  good  too,  with  thrills,  suspense, 
romance  and  laughs.  Jack  Holt  and  Tom  Moore  are 
rivals  for  Constance  Cummings'  favor.     Jack  wins. 

(May) 

LAUGH   AND   GET    RICH— Radio   Pictures.— 

Misadventures  of  a  boarding  house  mistress,  played 
by  Edna  May  Oliver,  and  her  chronically  tired  hubby, 
Hugh  Herbert.    Good  for  plenty  of  laughs.    (May) 

•  LAUGHTER— Paramount. — Nancy  Carroll 
and  Fredric  March  in  love — with  a  millionaire 
husband  in  the  background.  A  bewitching  picture. 
See  it.     (Dec.) 

LIFE  OF  THE  PARTY,  THE— Warners.— 
Winnie  Lightner  roughhouses  in  high  class  Techni- 
color and  Havana's  fast  set.     What  laughs!     (Jan.) 

•  LIGHTNIN'— Fox.— Don't  miss  this,  for  it's 
Will  Rogers  at  his  best.  A  real  story  about 
the  Nevada  divorce  mill,  a  fine  cast,  brilliant  di- 
rection. And  the  choicest  Rogers  observations. 
What  more  could  you  ask?     (Jan.) 

LIGHTNING  FLYER,  THE— Columbia.— Jimmy 
Hall  as  the  wild  young  son,  who  makes  good  and  wins 
the  love  of  a  good  woman — Dorothy  Sebastian.  Not 
so  good;  then  again,  not  so  bad.    (May) 

LION  AND  THE  LAMB,  THE— Columbia— A 
gangster  story  supposed  to  be  good  clean  fun.  It's 
clean,  anyway.  Miriam  Seegar,  Carmel  Myers  and 
Walter  Byron  are  the  principals.      (Jan.) 

LITTLE  CAESAR— First  National.— Don't  decide 
you're  fed  up  on  underworld  movies  before  you've 
seen  this  one.  It's  worth  it,  thanks  to  brilliant  work 
by  Edward  G.  Robinson  and  Doug,  Jr.     (Dec.) 

LITTLE  CAFE,  THE  (Le  Petit  Cafe)— Para- 
mount.— Chevalier's  French  version  of  "Playboy  of 
Paris"  and  simply  great.  Gay  and  charming  with 
more  songs  added  and  his  wife,  Yvonne  Vallee. 
(April) 

•  LONELY  WIVES— Pathe  —  Edward  Everett 
Horton  great,  in  a  side-splitting  farce.  Patsy 
Ruth  Miller,  Esther  Ralston  and  Laura  La  Plante 
are  the  girls  involved.     (April) 

LOOSE  ENDS— British  International.  — The 
British  have  a  go  at  a  problem  drama.  Weak  and 
wordy.     (Jan.) 

LOVE  HABIT,  THE— British  International.— 
British  conception  of  a  French  bedroom  farce.  Very 
heavy.    (April) 

LOVE  KISS,  THE— Celebrity  Productions.— A 
nice  little  college  comedy  with  plenty  of  romance 
and  laughter.     (March) 

LOVE  TRADER,  THE— Tiffany  Productions.— 
Leatrice  Joy,  blonde  and  beautiful,  in  a  seductive 
Hawaiian  locale.     See  it  for  Leatrice.     (Dec.) 

MADONNA  OF  THE  STREETS— Columbia.— 
Evelyn  Brent  triumphs  over  the  old  yarn  about  the 
regeneration  of  a  lady  crook.    (Feb.) 


MAN  FROM  CHICAGO,  THE— Elstree  Pro- 
ductions.— The  British  go  hay-wire  on  this  story  of 
Chicago  gangsters  and  their  ladies.  Skip  this  one. 
(March) 

MAN  OF  THE  WORLD— Paramount.— Good 
picture;  not  much  action  but  plenty  of  drama  and  a 
great  performance  by  William  Powell.  Carole  Lom- 
bard is  the  lovely  heroine.    (May) 

MAN  TO  MAN — Warners. — (Reviewed  under  the 
title  "Barber  John's  Boy.")  A  father  returns  to  face 
his  son  after  eighteen  years  in  prison.  Grant  Mitchell 
and  Phillips  Holmes  are  good,  but  the  picture  isn't 
always  convincing.     (Dec.) 

MAN  WHO  CAME  BACK,  THE— Fox.— Farrell 
and  Gaynor  sink  to  the  depths,  but  love  reforms 
them.      Not   a    "7th    Heaven"    but    worth   seeing. 

(March) 

MANY  A  SLIP— Universal. — Joan  Bennett  and 
Lew  Ayres  in  a  wise-cracking  dialogue  comedy.  You 
may,  but  you  probably  won't,  like  it.     (March) 

MEN  CALL  IT  LOVE— M-G-M— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Among  the  Married.")  Sophisticated 
story  of  married  life  in  the  country  club  set.  Adolphe 
Menjou  excellent.  Norman  Foster  and  Leila  Hyams 
good  as  the  young  lovers.  Not  for  the  children.  (A  pril) 

MEN  ON  CALL— Fox.— Edmund  Lowe  wastes 
his  time  and  talents  in  a  bad  story.     (March) 


Producer  Announcements 

ofj\ew  Pictures 

and  Stars 

While  all  good  advertising  is  news, 
we  consider  producer  advertising 
of  particular  interest  to  our  read' 
ers.  With  this  directory  you  easily 
can  locate  each  announcement: 

Columbia  Pictures  ....  Page  115 
First  National  Pictures  . .  Page  11 

Fox  Films Page  9 

Paramount  Pictures  .  .  .  Page  4 

Radio  Pictures Page  111 

Warner  Bros Page  7 


MEN  WITHOUT  LAW— Columbia.— Buck  Jones 
performs  his  Western  heroics  in  an  interesting  Span- 
ish locale  and  wins  the  beautiful  Carmelita  Geraghty. 
(Feb.) 

MIDNIGHT  SPECIAL,  THE— Chesterfield  Prod. 
— Nothing  new,  but  plenty  of  excitement.  Good  for 
the  kids.     (April) 

MILLIE  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Helen  Twelvetrees 
splendid  in  this  tense  drama.  Enough  tears  and 
chuckles  to  make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March) 

•  MILLIONAIRE,  THE— Warners— George 
Arliss — need  we  say  more?  This  time  he  plays 
a  wealthy  American  automobile  manufacturer.  Eva- 
lyn  Knapp  is  the  attractive  daughter  and  David 
Manners,  the  business  partner.    See  it.    (May) 

MIN  AND  BILL— M-G-M.— A  tragic  story  stu- 
pidly gagged  up  with  slapstick.  However,  Marie 
Dressier  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  are  gr^nd  actresses. 
(Dec.) 

•  MOROCCO— Paramount. — The  new  German 
enchantress,  Marlene  Dietrich,  will  stir  up  a 
storm.  And  Gary  Cooper  is  a  gorgeous  Foreign  Le- 
gionnaire.    Hot  stuff,  this.     (Dec.) 

MOTHERS  CRY— First  National.— A  best  seller 
turned  into  a  good  picture,  chiefly  by  the  superb  act- 
ing of  Dorothy  Peterson  as  the  mother.     (Dec.) 

•  MOTHER'S  MILLIONS— Liberty  Prod.— 
Humor,  pathos,  bright  dialogue  and  splendid 
acting  make  this  a  delightfully  entertaining  story. 
May  Robson  is  the  mother.     (April) 


MR.  LEMON  OF  ORANGE— Fox.— El  Brendel. 
starring,  in  some  mistaken  identity  stuff.  Riotously 
funny  in  spots,  and  Fifi  Dorsay  helps  a  lot.     (May) 

MURDER — British  International. — Smart  and 
entertaining  mystery  drama  with  a  travelling  stock 
company  as  the  background  and  a  first-rate  amateur 
detective.      (Jan.) 

MY  PAST — Warners. — (Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Ex-Mistress.")  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bcbe  Daniel9 — par- 
don !  The  Ben  Lyonses  in  an  ultra-modern  love 
story  which  is  highly  entertaining.     (Feb.) 

•  NEW  MOON— M-G-M.— Music  of  the  drama 
first  rate,  with  the  greatest  singing  combina- 
tion on  the  screen.  Metropolitan  Opera's  Lawrence 
Tibbett  and  Grace  Moore.  Color,  drama,  beauty, 
melody  combine  in  a  real  musical  smash.     (Jan.) 

NIGHT  BIRDS  —  British  International.  — 
Mystery  melodrama,  with  much  a-do  over  a  killing. 
Not  so  bad.      (March) 

NO  LIMIT — Paramount. — Clara  Bowasa  flapper, 
an  usherette  and  a  gangster's  moll,  and  wearing 
some  amazing  clothes.  You  may  be  amused. 
(March) 

NOT  EXACTLY  GENTLEMEN— Fox.— Three 
men's  battles  for  a  map,  a  girl  (Fay  Wray)  and 
riches.  Top-notch  entertainment.  Victor  McLaglen, 
Lew  Cody  and  Eddie  Gribbon  share  acting  honors. 
(April) 

OH,  FOR  A  MAN!— Fox.— A  bright  and  merry 
farce  about  a  grand  opera  star  who  loves  a  burglar. 
Reginald  Denny's  the  burglar,  and  Jeanette  Mac- 
Donald  is  the  song-bird  who  falls  for  him.     (Jan.) 

ONCE  A  SINNER— Fox.— The  oldest  type  of 
triangle  story.  The  really  fine  performances  of 
Dorothy  Mackaill.  Joel  McCrea  and  John  Halliday 
make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March) 

•  ONE  HEAVENLY  NIGHT— United  Artists.— 
(Reviewed  under  the  title  "The  Queen  of  Scan- 
dal.") A  musical,  but  a  hit.  England's  Evelyn  Lave 
is  charming  and  Texas'  John  Boles  in  grand  voice. 
(Dec.) 

ONLY  SAPS  WORK— Paramount.— Mr.  Leon 
Errol  and  his  trick  legs  stagger  away  with  this  comedy 
about  lovers  and  thieves.    (Feb.) 

OTHER  MEN'S  WOMEN— Warners.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Steel  Highway".)  Grant  Withers 
and  Mary  Astor  against  a  railroad  background. 
Fairly  entertaining.     (Dec.) 

PAGLIACCI— Audio  Cinema  Prod.— Bad  grand 
opera  poorly  transferred  to  the  screen.    (.Way) 

•  PAID— M-G-M.— (Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Within  the  Law.") — Just  wait  until^  you  see 
Joan  Crawford  in  this  powerful  dramatic  r61e!  The 
story  is  absorbing  and  Joan  is  simply  grand.    (Jan.) 

PAINTED  DESERT,  THE— Pathe.— A  Western 
which  you'll  like.  Bill  Boyd  is  the  virile  hero  and 
Helen  Twelvetrees  the  girl.     (March) 

•  PARLOR,  BEDROOM  AND  BATH— 
M-G-M. —  It's  a  howl,  this  farce.  Buster  Kea- 
ton  and  Charlotte  Greenwood  race  for  honors.  As  a 
heavy  lover.  Buster  is  amazing.     (April) 

PART  TIME  WIFE— Fox.— Hokum,  but  enter- 
taining. Eddie  Lowe  makes  grand  work  of  a  funny 
r61e  and  little  Tommy  "Song  o'  My  Heart"  Clifford 
is  a  natural.      (Jan.) 

PASSION  FLOWER— M-G-M— Charles  Bick- 
ford,  Kay  Johnson  and  Kay  Francis  form  the  good 
old  eternal  triangle.  Interesting  people  in  a  good 
film.      (Jan.) 

PHANTOM  OF  THE  DESERT,  THE— Syndi- 
cate.— Jack  Perrin  in  a  true-to-type  Western.  Plenty 
of  hard  ridin'  and  fast  shootin'.    (Feb.) 

PINCHOT'S  SOUTH  SEA  CRUISE— Travel- 
Epics. — The  ex-governor  of  Pennsylvania  took  some 
interesting  pictures  of  a  South  Seas  cruise.  No  studio 
faking  in  this  one.     (Jan.) 

PRINCESS  AND  THE  PLUMBER,  THE— Fox. 
— A  young  American  millionaire  (Charles  Farrell) 
and  a  beautiful  princess  (Maureen  O'Sullivan).  You 
know  what  happens — a  harmless  little  light  comedy. 
(Feb.) 

RANGO— Paramount. — A  stirring  jungle  picture 
with  a  real  story.  Magnificent.  Different.  Don't 
mistake  it  for  "just  another  wild  animal  picture." 
(Feb.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  122  ] 


I'i 'i  \v   M  \..\/im    i  01  Ji  I 


'3 


Discovered!  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  checks 

bad  breath  longer  than  leading  mouth  antiseptics!! 
3  to  1 1*  times  more  powerful  in  killing  germs  ! ! ! 


"AGAIN  science  discovers  something 
X~V  new.  This  time  a  recent  and  sensa- 
tional advance  is  made  in  the  field  of 
deadly  bacteria.  A  revolutionary  mouth 
wash  has  been  developed  that  is  3  to  11* 
times  more  powerful  in  killing  germs  than 
many  other  leading  mouth  antiseptics." 

This  is  the  unqualified  and  official 
opinion  of  great  bacteriological  labora- 
tories, and  of  individual  scientists  who 
have  made  extensive  tests  with  its  new 
discovery. 

From  Pepsodent  laboratories 

This  remarkable  discovery  is  a  new  and 
powerful  weapon  in  fighting  germs.  It 
combats,  immediately,  the  social  evil  of 
bad  breath. 

The  formula  comes  from  the  Pepso- 
dent tooth  paste  laboratories,  whose  con- 
tribution to  dental  hygiene  has  won  high 
recognition.  Under  the  label  of  Pepso- 
dent Antiseptic  Mouth  Wash  it  is  being 
widely  distributed  in  the  public  interest. 

Cleanses— purifies  the  mouth 

The  active  agent  used  in  Pepsodent 
Mouth  Wash,  as  determined  by  standard 
tests,  is  many  times  more  potent  than 
pure  carbolic  acid,  for  all  time  the  stand- 


ard germicide.  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  is  non- 
poisonous,  safe  and  soothing. 

Immediately  after  you  use  it,  95%  of  the 
germs  in  the  mouth  are  destroyed.  Their  num- 
ber is  still  reduced  70%  at  the  end  of  two  hours' 
time — that  is  far  longer  acting  than  many  other 
leading  mouth  washes. 

"We  find,"  states  one  laboratory,  "Pepsodent 
Mouth  Wash  kills  the  stubborn  pus-producing 
germs  (M.  Aureus)  in  the  fastest  time  it  is 
possible  for  science  to  record  —  we  believe 
faster  than  has  previously  been  the  standard 
for  other  leading  mouth  washes." 

Checks  bad  breath 

With  this  revolutionary  discovery  comes 
a  social  safeguard:  remarkable  protection 
against  offensive  breath.  A  laboratory 
director  states:  "Tests  prove  conclusively 
that  Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  overcomes 
bad  breath  1  to  2  hours  longer  than  many 
other  leading  antiseptic  mouth  washes." 

At  your  druggist's— today 

Your  druggist  has  just  received  this  new 
discovery.  Go  today  and  get  a  bottle. 
Secure  this  added  protection  to  your 
family's  health  plus  the  greater  assur- 
ance of  a  pure,  sweet  breath. 


Consult  your 
Dentist,  Physician 

In  the  opinion  of  some  au- 
thorities, most  breath  odors 
come  from  such  minor  causes 
as  neglected,  unclean  mouth, 
tooth  decay,  slight  infections 
of  nose  and  throat,  excessive 
smoking.  If,  after  using 
Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash,  bad 
breath  persists  in  returning, 
seek  medical  and  dental  ad- 
vice   to    remove    the    cause. 


Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  is 
highly  antiseptic  when  diluted 
with  several  parts  of  water. 
Hence,  it  goes  many  times  as 
far  as  many  mouth  washes 
which  must  be  used  FULL 
STRENGTH   to   be  effective. 

COSTS    MUCH    LESS 


Pepsodent   Antiseptic   Mouth  Wash 

A  revolutionary  mouth  wash  just  discovered  by  the  Pepsodent  tooth  paste  laboratories 


"Touch    Not 
Yon   Blonde 


WHAM!  The  warfare  Katherine  Albert  started 
when  she  wrote  the  article  in  a  recent  issue  of 
Photoplay  called  "Exploding  the  Garbo  Myth." 
Sky  rockets,  pin  wheels,  Roman  candles,  hand 
grenades,  shrapnel  shells  and  poison  gas  came  popping,  banging 
and  hissing  into  Photoplay's  office.  Through  the  rockets'  red 
glare  with  bombs  bursting  in  air,  our  neighbors  began  to  wonder 
if  Photoplay  was  still  there. 

The  only  thing  we  didn't  get  was  a  time  bomb,  and  this  was 
only  because  no  one  thought  of  it.  We  even  heard  from  insane 
asylums,  old  soldiers'  homes,  maternity  wards  and  orphan 
asylums. 

No  story  ever  printed  about  a  screen  personality  started  as 
many  fireworks  as  Miss  Albert's  story  that  Garbo  is  tainted 
with  humanity  and  is  not  a  goddess. 

All  bulky  packages  addressed  to  Katherine  Albert  were 
delivered  to  the  Police  Bomb  Squad  to  be  soaked  in  water 
before  opening.  The  editor  of  another  screen  magazine  received 
a  long  article  denouncing  Miss  Albert  and  proclaiming  the 
divinity  of  Garbo,  with  the  statement  that  unless  the  article 
was  printed  in  that  magazine  the  writer  would  publish  a  mag- 
azine of  her  own. 

Miss  Albert  was  denounced  in  bombastic,  flaming  epithets 
that  made  her  cute  little  pink  ears  turn  a  livid  purple  and 
crinkle  at  the  edges.  She  was  put  in  a  class  with  Benedict 
Arnold,  Nero  and  Judas.  Lucrezia  Borgia,  she  discovered,  was 
just  an  amateur  poisoner  compared  to  her- 
self. And  all  because  she  had  the  te- 
merity to  suggest  that  Garbo  was  less 
than  Divine. 


THE  fact  that  she  did  say  many  nice 
things  about  Garbo  didn't  save  her  from 
abuse. 

"  Nobody  has  ever  had  such  a  place  in  the 
film  firmament,"  wrote  Miss  Albert.  "  No- 
body has  ever  had  such  a  hold  on  the  im- 
agination of  the  people." 

And  again:  "Garbo's  a  nice  girl." 

And  again:  "She's  invariably  lovely  and 
kind  to  the  new  actors  and  actresses  who 
work  with  her.  She  is  touched  by  illness 
and  sadness  and  expresses  herself  in  flowers 
and  gifts  to  those  who  are  ill  or  sad." 

But  no  matter.  Miss  Albert  thought 
the  Garbo  legend  of  mystery  was  just  a 
myth — and  the  war  was  on! 

When  the  smoke  of  the  Garbo  vs.  Albert 
battle  cleared  we  discovered  numerous 
letters  in  praise  of  "Skippy."  How  the 
kids  loved  it!     "The  Front  Page"  caused 

//, 


a  sensation;  hats  were  doffed  high  to  Adolphe  Mer-iou  for 
a  grand  performance.  "Dracula"  stirred  up  much  excite- 
ment, too  much  for  those  with  jagged  nerves.  Complaints 
galore  because  the  music  had  been  removed  from  "  Fifty  Million 
Frenchmen."  There  is  a  decided  yearning  creeping  into  the  fan 
mail  for  more  music  in  the  talkies.  The  pendulum  is  swinging 
back. 

GEORGE  ARLISS'  admiring  throng  thought  "  The  Million- 
aire" a  great  picture  and  they  liked  to  see  him  playing  an 
American  for  a  change.  Evalyn  Knapp  as  his  daughter  received 
nothing  but  bouquets  and  was  nominated  as  a  sure  candidate 
for  stardom.  Claudette  Colbert  and  Fredric  March  in  "Honor 
Among  Lovers"  won  the  popular  vote.  Robert  Montgomery  is 
dodging  brick-bats  and  picking  up  bouquets  at  the  same  time. 
Lew  Ayres  is  a  boy  wonder.  Paul  Lukas  is  g-r-r-rand!  Better 
stories  are  demanded  for  Charles  (ex-Buddy)  Rogers.  He's 
still  a  big  favorite. 

Insistent  cries  for  more  romance  in  the  talkies,  less  sensa- 
tionalism, worth  while  stories  with  some  plot;  cut  out  misleading 
advertisements. 

And  always  the  Garbo  Army  for  the  Defense  telling  us — 
commanding  us — to  watch  our  step  and  leave  the  Divine 
Woman  unassailed. 

Now  for  the  barrage  that  landed,  some  15,854  strong,  on  our 
defenseless  heads  and  left  us  groggy  and  hanging  on  the  ropes! 

For  and  Against 

GARBO  is  all  soul  in  an  age  where  soul 
i 


ris  forgotten. 


Blanche  Driscoll, 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 


Weight  98  pounds.  Fifteen 
thousand  Garbo-Foreverfans 
pounced  on  her.  She  still 
maintains  that  Garbo  is  not 
divine 


I'll  never  read  another  story  by  Kathe- 
rine Albert  as  long  as  I  live,  unless  it  is 
entitled  "I  Apologize  to  Garbo." 

Ellen  Brown, 
New  York  City 

Garbo  is  the  scale  by  which  we  measure 
our  stars.  No  one  has  ever  reached  her 
standard. 

Elizabeth  Walter, 
Baldwinsville,  N.  Y. 

Miss  Albert  has  failed  in  her  attempt  to 
discredit  the  world's  greatest  actress. 
Rose  Lane, 
Medford,  Ore. 


5^. 


Once  in  an  ape  a  vibrant,  magnetic  person- 
ality i-  given  to  the  world — such  a  personality 

Mi  ki  i    Dl  i  wi  s . 
Montreal,  Can. 

I've  bought  my  last  copy  of  PHOTOPl  \y. 
J.  I).  SlSSON, 

New  ,i  (irk  City 

We  know  our  Garl>o!     She  is  as  we  want 
her  to  be.     Don't  try  to  put  us  "wise"  to  her. 
i  Laki  lew  . 

Birmingham,  Ala. 

That  our  Divine  Gutw  is  brilliant  and 
talented  is  too  obvious  a  thing  to  bicker  al>out. 

( ;  i  \  i  Caktwell, 

Brooklyn,  X.  Y. 

Give    up    the    hopeless    task    of    trying    to 
oy  our  illusions  about  Garbo.    No  matter 
what  she  is.  DO  matter  what  she  does,  we'll  go 
right  on  worshipping  her. 

A    M.  Ambler, 
New  York  City 

Gel  Catherine  Albert  off  your  staff  quick! 
Anyone  calling  the  Great  Garbo  an  "emotional 
machine"  will  ruin  PHOTOPLAY. 

M  \k\   J  \\i  i    Brow  \. 

Sew  Orleans,  La. 


Fifty      million      people     can't      be      Wl 
Catherine  Albert's  article  hasn't  convinced  me 
that    Garbo's   charm    is   caused    by   a    "facial 
trick." 

M  \\i\i    I>ii  S, 
Denver,  Col. 

The  Public — which  after  all  is  the  gn 
boss — judged     Garbo    and     found     her    NOT 
lacking. 

Rose  Anderson, 

Flag  ('enter,  Kan. 

Down   with   this  joy-killing   debunker   who 
cannot  let  us  worship  our  Goddess  in  peace! 
Anna  McLean, 
Kn.lerlin,  X.  D. 

PHOTOPLAY  is  the  most  outstanding  screen 
magazine  in  the  world,  but  if  Katherine  Albert 
writes  against  Garbo,  the  Immortal,  we  shall 
never  read  PHOTOPLAY  again. 

M  \i:y  Li 
Chicago,  111. 

1  \ploding — that's  how  I  feel  after  reading 
Katheritu-  Albert's  article  on  the  unsurpassable 
Garbo.    Garbo  is  the  greatesl  living  actress. 
A  F.  Sandesson, 

Pittsburgh,  l'enna. 


a.,  crouch 

Don't  give  US  any  more  artii  lei  like  "  Explod- 
ing the  Garbo  Myth."    Xo  one  wants  to  know 
that  her  idol  has  clay  feet.     Leave  us  our 
untarnished  by  the  glare  of  unflattering  reality. 
S\R\  MrODLI  MAN, 
Philadelphia.  l'enna. 

"C.arbo  is  no  great  shakes  as  an  actress," 
Katherine  Albert.     At   that   rate   "Anna 
Christie,"     "Romance"     and     "Inspiration" 
must  have  l>een  optical  illusions. 

\  ,\  \  M.  Bum  \i  IN, 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 

This  kind  of  criticism  can  hurt  no  one. 
When  Garbo  reads  it  she'll  probably  give  one 
of  her  entrancing  smiles  and  say,  "Oh,  dot's 
silly."    That's  what  we  think. 

II   Alorich, 
Lvanston,  111. 

If  Garbo  is  "no  great  shakes  as  an  actress" 
and  her  artistry  is  "merely  a  facial  trick."  then, 
dear  me.  what  in  the  world  is  wrong  with  the 
few  million  of  us  who  sit  and  twiddle  our 
thumbs  waiting  for  the  release  of  her  next 
picture? 

•  nvilh ■.  Mich. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE  145  ] 


Best   Letters  of  Month 


The  $25  Letter 


To  the  movies  I  owe  a  debt  of  gratitude. 
During  my  hardest  years  they  offered  me 
respite  and  escape.  \\  hen  life  is  pretty 
thick,  money  scarce,  clothes  shabby,  just 
slip  into  the  grateful  darkness  of  a  movie 
theater  for  a  couple  of  hours.  I  remember 
one  occasion  in  particular.  After  nursing 
the  kids  and  their  father  through  a  B&ege 
of  flu,  cold  packs,  hot  packs,  aspirin, 
orange  juice  and  the  rest,  I  had  them  at 
last  Barely  convalescent  and  slipped  out  to 
a  show.  It  was  a  romance  as  picturesque 
as  an  old  tapestry.  And  did  I  enjoy  it !  I 
walked  home  in  the  rain  with  new  energy 
to  tackle  my  job. 

Time  has  passed.  My  children  are 
older,  life  a  little  easier,  but  I  still  go  to 


the  movies  for  the  pleasure  they  give  me. 
Mrs.  M  \riav  RodOEKS, 
Portland,  Ore. 

The  $10  Letter 

From  the  beginning  of  motion  pictures 
to  the  present  time  there  have  been  a  large 
number  of  clergymen  who  seem  to  have 
nothing  but  destructive  criticism  for  the 
screen. 

They  are  denouncing  something  they 
know  nothing  about.  For  an  example,  on 
a  Sunday  evening  a  few  weeks  ;i 
listened  to  a  minister  tell  about  what  a 
menace  the  movies  were.  He  wound  up 
his  discourse  by  saying  that  he  and  his 
children  had  never  been  in  a  picture  show. 

I  said  to  myself,  "Brother,  if  vou  had 


gone  to  see   'The   Devil's  Holiday'  last 
week,  you  probably  would  have  had  a 
better  text  for  your  sermon  this  cvenine ." 
Pi:  \rl  BlUNCTON, 
Long  Beach,  Calif. 

The  $5  Lei  ter 

The  creed  of  the  box  office  seems  to  Ik1 
to  make  pictures  appear  a  little  off -color 
or  the  public  will  be  bored.  Many  a  so- 
called  "bad ''  picture  is  in  reality  a  beauti- 
ful thing,  subtly  and  delicately  handled 
and  not  the  indecent  type  one  is  led  to 
expect  from  its  lurid  title.  The'baii 
of  a  picture  often  lies  in  the  way  it  is  ad- 
vertised. 

Latjsa  Belle  Cower. 
Battle  Creek.  Mich. 


In  "Bachelor  Apartment,"  the  employer  (Lowell  Sherman)  might  be  saying  to  his  secretary 
(Irene  Dunne),  "Be  hard  on  yourself,  I  haven't  got  time" 

A  Tip  for  Lazy  Girls 


THERE'S  one  in  every  office.  In 
every  factory,  and  shop,  and 
school.  And  in  plenty  of  homes. 
The  girl  who  can  always  find  an  ex- 
cuse for  herself,  a  reason  why  she 
shouldn't  be  censured  either  for  small 
slips  or  serious  mistakes.  Who  thinks 
everybody  is  "hard  on  her"  but  never 
connects  it  with  not  being  hard 
enough  on  herself. 

I  heard  a  story  recently  that  illustrates  just  what  I  mean. 
The  secretary  to  a  busy  and  important  man  made  a  mistake 
during  the  first  month  of  her  work  for  him  that  cost  the  com- 
pany quite  a  sum  of  money.  Discouraged  and  conscience- 
stricken,  she  went  into  his  office  to  apologize  and  receive  the 
discharge  she  knew  she  deserved. 

Disconcerted  by  his  abrupt,  impersonal  attitude  as  she  began 
the  set  little  speech  she  had  composed,  her  poise  left  her  com- 
pletely and  she  found  herself  mumbling  how  sorry  she  was  and 
begging  him  not  to  be  too  hard  on  her. 

"Be  hard  on  yourself,"  he  snapped  back.  "I  haven't  time 
to  be  hard  on  the  people  in  my 
office.  If  they  can't  see  and  cor- 
rect their  own  shortcomings,  I 
let  them  go.  Maybe  other  busi- 
ness men  have  time  to  argue.  I 
hav.n't.  Now,  please  get  your 
note-book.  I'm  going  out  of 
town  to  try  to  save  the  pieces 
on  this  deal,  and  there  are  some 
important  jobs  you  will  have 
to  follow  up  while  I'm  gone." 

Frightened  by  the  sternness 
of  his  code,  but  grateful  for  be- 
ing given  another  chance,  she 
set  herself  to  making  a  concen- 
trated attack  upon  each  day's 
work.  She  learned  to  be  really 
hard  on  herself.  It  showed  in 
the  thoroughness  of  her  work 


They  wonder  why 

they  don't  get  along 

in  office,  home  and 

social  affairs 


and  the  speed  with  which  she  devel- 
oped judgment  in  business  affairs. 

Two  years  later,  when  her  title  was 
changed  to  "assistant"  to  cover  the 
increased  scope  of  her  duties,  she  was 
told  that  the  money  her  mistake  had 
cost  the  company  had  long  since  been 
chalked  up  as  an  investment.  They 
realized  that  it  had  made  her  develop 
from  an  average  stenographer  to  a 
wide-awake  business  woman. 


Friendly  Advice  on 

Girls'  Problems 

\  RE  you  overweight?  Send  for  my  booklet  of  nor- 
^*-maIizing  exercises  and  non-fattening  menus.  Are 
you  troubled  with  blackheads  or  acne?  My  complexion 
leaflet  will  help  you.  A  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope 
will  bring  you  either,  or  both,  or  any  other  advice  on 
personal  problems.  There  is  no  charge  and  your  letters 
will  be  held  in  strict  confidence. 

Address  me  at  PHOTOPLAY,  221  West  57th  Street, 
New  York  City. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


I  KNEW  a  wife  who  thought  her  husband  was  unusually  hard 
to  please.  He  liked  his  meals  hot  and  on  time.  He  liked 
his  newspaper  handy  to  his  easy  chair  in  the  evening.  He  liked 
everything  that  made  for  comfort  in  his  home.  He  grumbled 
when  he  didn't  get  it.  And  she  resented  this,  and  thought  he 
was  demanding  a  great  deal. 

One  day  he  said  something  in  anger  that  stung  her,  not  to 
immediate  action,  but  to  some  real  thinking.  "If  I  put  out  as 
little  effort  to  make  good  in  my  job  and  earn  my  salary  as  you 

do,  there  wouldn't  be  any  job 
or  any  money  to  run  this 
house,"  he  exploded. 

Amazed  at  his  audacity  in 
reminding  her,  a  modern  wo- 
man who  had  been  self-sup- 
porting before  marriage,  that 
she  was  dependent  upon  him 
for  a  living,  she  was  quite 
speechless.  Yes,  this  is  a  true 
incident,  and  women  are  some- 
times left  speechless  with  sur- 
prise or  indignation,  the  joke- 
smiths  and  comic  strip  artists 
to  the  contrary!  Women  al- 
ways deliver  their  best  come- 
backs in  their  own  imaginary 
conversations,  long  after  the 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  104  ] 


Pi Pi  \\    MaOAHWI     miK   Jim.    1931 


'7 


Is  Yiollywaods  Indescribable  ffIT" 

Hidden  in  the 

MAGIC 

Make-up 

Is  make-up  the  secret  of  lie 
glamorous  beauty  of  the  screen  stars? 


girl  create  a 
a  personality 
Hollywood's 


Can  every 
beauty  that  thrills  . . 
that  attracts ...  with 
Make-Up  Secret  ? 

Read  the  answer  .  .  .  by 
Ho/Iyzcood's  Make-  Up  Genius  .  .  . 
Max  Factor. 


1 1 


that   indescribable   something   about   a 

personality   that  attracts,  that   allures,  that 

appeals;  that  is  magnetic  and  electric.  Every 
famous  screen  star  has  it  .  .  .  and  holds  an  audience  of  mil- 
lions spellbound.  What  is  the  secret? 

"What  we  have  discovered  in  pictures  about  beauty, 
about  make-up,  about  cosmetics ...  every  woman  should 
know.  True!  make-up  is  magic . . .  and  in  the  magic  of  make- 
up lies  more  than  ne^  Scanty ..  .but  the  wand  of  make-up 
is  not  so  magical,  so  mysterious  that  every  woman  cannot 
wave  it  over  herself  and  produce  in  her  own  likeness  the 
vision  of  beauty  she  has  alwavs  dreamed  of."  And  then 
Max  Factor,  Hollywood's  genius  of  make-up,  creator  of 
make-up  for  the  leading  motion  picture  stars  and  studios, 
told  me  the  secrets  of  make-up  which  every  woman  will 
want  to  know. 

If  you  would  double  your  beauty  ...  gain  new  personality  ...  new  charm  ...  new  attraction... 
listen!  In  Hollvwood,  screen  stars  are  using  a  new  kind  ot  make-up  tor  street  and  social  wear.  It  is 
based  on  cosmetic  color  harmonv  . .  .  Max  Factor's  famous  discovery  which  revolutionized  make-up 
in  Hollywood,  and  caused  all  stars  and  studios  to  adept  his  make-up  exclusively.  A  make-up  ensem- 
ble...  powder,  rouge,  lipstick,  eyeshadow  and  other  essentials  in  perfect  color  harmonies  for  every 
individual  type  of  beauty ...  in  blonde,  brunette,  redhead  and  brownette. 

And  each  star  has  her  own  individual  color  harmony,  too. ..just  the  exact  shades  in  each 
essential  to  blend  into  a  make-up  ensemble  exactly  suited  to  her  own  individual  persona 
ity  .  .  .suggested  by  Max  Factor  to  accentuate  the  allure  of  natural  beauty.  No  wonder 
millions  silently   applaud   the  fascinating  beauty  of  the  stars. 

Now  you  .  .  .  like  a  screen  star  .  .  .  may  share  this  secret  of  beauty.  Max  Factor 
will  create  for  you  .  .  .  just  as  he  would  for  a  screen  star  .  .  .  your  own  color  har- 
mony in  make-up,  according  to  your  own  complexion  analysis,  and  with  this 
priceless  gitt  you  will  receive  a  copy  of  his  book,  "The  New  Art  of  Society 
Make-  I'p."  Discover  this  make-up  secret  of  Hollywood's ...  and  you'll  dis- 
cover the  one  way  to  new  beauty,  new  fascination,  and  that  indescribable 
something  called  "it"  which  until  now  has  been  held  within  the  glamorous 
world  called  Hollywood.  Mail  courtesy  coupon  now 


DOROTHY  MACK  A  ILL 

starring  in 
First  National's  production 

"Party   Husbands" 

Make-Up  by  Max  Factor 

Dorothy  Maciaill,  -j.  rites:  "I  use  your 
make-up  exclusively,  as  there  is  none 
just  as  good  as  Max  Factor's  Society 
Make-  Up. " 

*     *     * 

LORETTA  YOUNG, 
First  National  Star  and  Max  F 
Hollywood s   Make-Up   Genius  using 
the  correct  color  harmony  tone  in  Max 
Factor's  Face  Ponder. 


nur's  Society  Make- 
I        MM~FCjR~YOUR~C7)MrTEYlON~TNl'L\rs7s~ 

|Mr.  Max  Factor — Mix  Factor  Studios,  Hollvwood,  Calif.      1-6-40 
|  Dear  Sin  Send  me  a  complimentary  copy  of  your  48-page  book,    1  Ac  Nn  A-t 
\of  Society  Make-Up",  personal  complexion  analysis  and  make-up  color  harmony 
■  chart.    I  enclose  10c  (com  or  sumps)  to  cover  cost  of  postage  and  handling. 


MAX  FACTOR'S  Society  MAKE-UP 

HOLLYWOOD 


osmetics  of  the  Stars  - 

96%  of  all  mike-up  including  Technicolor  used  by  Hollywood  Screen  Sun  ind  Studios  is  Max  Factor's. 

(Lu  Angilii   Chimtrr  «/  Ctmmini  Suiuliu)  ClgJO  Mi*  fSmr 


I 
I 

I 


COMPLEXION 


b,M 


COLOR  LASHES  Dr. 


COLOR  EYES 


COLOR  HAIR 


j  zrT 


KT 


Ani»tf  with  Cnf<k  M»rk 


i8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


till  BREATH 


do  us  part 


s  the  time  coming  when  halitosis 
(unpleasant  breath)  will  be  legal  grounds 
for  separation?  We  hope  not.  There  are 
too  many  grounds  now. 

Yet  halitosis  has  already  been  listed  as 
an  act  of  "extreme  cruelty."  In  another 
case,  tried  in  the  Chicago  courts,  it  was 
set  forth  as  the  principal  cause  of  a  wo- 
man's unhappiness  with  her  husband. 

One  thing  is  certain:  There  is  no  greater 
bar  to  pleasant  business  and  social  rela- 
tions than  unpleasant  breath.  It  is  the 
fault  others  won't  forgive. 

Don't  of  end  others 

The  insidious  thing  about  halitosis  is  that 
you  yourself  never  know  when  you  have 
it.  And  your  best  friend  won't  tell  you. 
Even  when  married,  a  man  or  woman 
hesitates  to  bring  up  this  delicate  sub- 
ject. 

One  way  to  make  sure  that  you  are  al- 
ways free  from  halitosis  is  to  rinse  the 
mouth  with  full  strength  Listerine  every 
morning  and  every  night,  and  between 
times  before  meeting  others.  Listerine  in- 


stantly overcomes  odors  and  leaves  the 
breath  and  the  mouth  sweet,  clean,  and 
wholesome.  Its  amazing  powers  as  a  de- 
odorant have  been  demonstrated  in  med- 
ical practice  the  world  over. 

Causes  of  halitosis 

Every  day,  conditions  capable  of  causing 
unpleasant  breath  are  already  present  or 
may  arise  in  the  mouth.  Its  common 
causes  are:  Fermenting  food  particles. 
Decaying  teeth.  Teeth,  natural  or  arti- 
ficial, improperly  cleaned.  Digestive  dis- 
orders resulting  from  excesses  of  eating 
or  drinking.  Too  much  smoking.  Infec- 
tions in  the  oral  tract,  such  as  pyorrhea, 
trench  mouth,  catarrh,  and  colds. 

Why  Listerine  deodorizes 

Because  of  Listerine's  instant  germicidal 
action,  it  halts  fermentation  and  decay — 
each  a  cause  of  odors.  Since  it  is,  in  addi- 


tion, a  swift,  pleasant  deodorant,  it  quickly 
gets  rid  of  the  odors  themselves.  Use  it 
before  any  social  engagement.  Lambert 
Pharmacal  Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo., 
U.  S.  A. 


LISTERINE    ends    Halitosis  (unpleasant  breath) 


Slolitt 


A  NATURAL,  regular  fellow — a  superb  actor  of  romantic 
and  light  comedy  roles — and  a  star  against  his  will — all 
these  go  to  make  up  Fredric  March,  "Fred"  to  us  since  his  mem- 
orable,  mirth-quaking  work  in  "The  Royal  Family  of  Broadway" 


Clarence  Sinclair  Bull 


IT  took  a  ramble  in  "The  Great  Meadow,"  Metro's  beautiful 
story  of  the  pioneers,  to  bring  Eleanor  Boardman  back  to  us. 
Now  she's  playing  in  Cecil  De  Mille's  "The  Squaw  Man." 
Other  times  she's  Mrs.  King  Vidor,  mother  of  two  small  Vidors 


Richee 


p)LESS  our  hearts — do  your  eagle  eyes  detect  a  more  mature, 
J-J  a  more  womanly  Nancy  Carroll  here?  The  same  pretty  face 
and  coloring — but  Nancy's  growing  up,  and  no  mistake.  Maybe 
it's  the  brilliant  dramatic  parts  Paramount  has  been  giving  her! 


Fryer 


CARE  for  the  curls  in  front  of  the  right  ear?  It's  one  of 
Dorothy  Mackaill's  new  little  stunts.  Dorothy's  talkie  suo 
cess  is  assured,  and  getting  greater  every  minute.  Her  next 
picture  for  us  is  "Party  Husband,"  and  she  says  we'll  like  it 


Your 

Sewing  Problems  Solved 

New  plan  entitles  you  to 

FREE  personal  help  with  your  summer  sewing 

no  cost— no  obligation— simply  use  coupon 

WHAT  help  do  you  need  right  >i»ti  with 
your  summer  sewing?  What  are  you  plan- 
ning to  make  or  what  would  you  like  to  make' 
A  dress  for  yourself,  a  child's  frock,  draperies 
for  your  home?  Or  would  you  like  help  in 
altering  and  adjusting  a  pattern.''  Whatever  your 
need  or  your  sewing  problem,  you  can  have  free 
personal  help  at  once  through  this  special  offer. 

Not  One  Penny  of  Cost 

DunngJune.July  and  August,  even,' Singer  Sewing  School 
in  the  United  States  and  Canada  is  giving  a  series  of 
special  free  Summer  Sewing  Courses.  They  are  short, 
interesting,  practical.  They  bring  you  the  personal  help 
of  a  competent  teacher,  the  same  teacher  who  conducts 
the  complete  Course  in  Home  Sewing  given  to  all 
purchasers  of  Singer  machines. 

For  the  summer  months  only,  these  Special  Courses 
are  Free.  There  is  not  one  penny  of  cost  to  you.  Not 
the  slightest  obligation  on  your  part.  Simply  choose 
the  Course  that  meets  your  needs  and  enjoy  its  benefits 

Come  now  and  be  among  the  very  first  to  accept 
this  unusual  offer.  Tell  your  friends  and  invite  them 
to  come  with  you.  Do  not  miss  this  opportunity  to 
have  personal  help  on  your  immediate  sewing  problems 

Send  Coupon  for   Enrollment  Certificate 

Fill  out  the  coupon  below  and  lake  n  Co  the  Singer  Shop 
nearest  your  home  (see  telephone  directory  lor  address  ^i  tx 
will  receive  at  once  your  Enrollment  Certificate  entitling  you 
to  this  free  help  on  your  sewing  problems.  Or,  send  the 
coupon  to  us  and  we  will  immediately  send  you  by  mail  jour 
Enrollment  Certificate  and  the  address  of  the  Singer  Shop 
w  here  you  may  enjoy  these  special  Summer  Sewing  Courses  tree 
Your  Enrollment  Certificate  also  entitles  you  to  your  cfaoice, 
frtt.  of  any  one  of  these  books  in  the  Singer  Sewing  Library 
—  How  to  Make  Dresses,"  "How  to  Make  Children's  (  lothcs. 
"How    to   Make   Draperies."   "Short   Cuts  to    Home  Sewing 

SINGER   SEWING  SCHOOLS 

Conducted  b\  SlX.Kll  SBWINC  MACHIIVB  C'OMPAX* 


Singer  Sewing  Machine  Co.,  Inc.,  Dept.  F-l  18.  Singer  Bldg..  New  York.  \.  Y. 

Please  issue  to  me  an  Enrollment  (ertihcate  entitling  me  without  cost  or  obligation, 
during  June,  July  or  August,  to  special  personal  instruction  at  the  nearest  Singer  Sew- 
ing  School:  also  to  my  choice,  free,  of  any  one  book  in  the  Singer  Sewing  Library. 


Siimi  . 


Street  (or  R  R  D  ) 
Crt)  or  Tnu  n 


Stat(_ 


L-nin 


Copvnirhl  U.S.  A  '■   Thr  Sm«rr  Manufat-turinf  Company.  All  nchu  r^vrvH  for  ill  muntnr. 


Choose  COLORS  that  make  your 


Jia 


earn  w\ 


savs 


DOROTHY  DIX 

Sympathetic  advisor  of  millions 

>  of  girls,  and  probably  the  most 

^■^    widely  read  writer  in  the  world 


'  C^()  many  letters  from  girls — all  longing 
>^7  for  the  loveliness  that  will  awaken 
romance!  Dear,  eager  girls — nowadays 
no  girl  needs  to  be  plain! 

"  \ny  girl  who  wears  the  right  COLORS 
ran  seem  so  radiantly  charming  that  the 
men  simply  Hock  around  her  for  men 
love  color. 

.1  Shining  Halo 

"Your  hair,  for  example — is  it  the  shin- 
ing halo  of  loveliness  your  heart  desires? 
The  right  color  in  your  frock  can  make 
your  hair  gleam  with  beauty  (and  men 
will  tell  you  so!). 

Only  remember  this:  once  you've 
chosen  your  best  colors,  take  care  not  to 
risk  fading.  For  two  reasons: 

1.  Fading  diminishes  the  emotional  thri 
of  the  color. 

2.  Fading — even  slight  fading — may  make 
a  color  'off  for  you. 

"Hut  yon   need   not   fear  fading   if  you 
wash    your    colorful     frocks,    gay 
blouses,  in  Lux.   For  Lux  is  made 
to  preserve  color. 

"Ordinary  'good'  soaps  oftei 
do  take  away  a  little  color  as 
they  cleanse,  hut  Lux  is  safe. 
You  know  their  slogan.  'If  it's  I   :, 
safe  in  water,  it's  just  as  safe  in  \ 
Lux!'    That's   absolutely    true.  \ 
\ot    only    in    your    clothes, 
but   in  your  HOME,  fresh  lovely 
color  adds  charm  and  glamour 
lo  VOI.    Dainty  curtains,  sofa 
pillows,  table  I  incus      keep  them 
alt  colorful  a.s  new  with  Lux!" 


"The  right  colors 
can  flatter  all  your 
good  points  and 
subdue  all  your  bad 
ones.  Make  you  so 
radiantly  charming 
that  men  flock 
around ! ' 


A^ 


**>T 


I  his  very  lovely  printed  chiffon, 
trashed  10  timet  in  ordinary 
"good"  soap,  has  faded  and  run, 
lost  all  charm.  The  brilliant  dis- 
tinction of  the  pattern  is  lost, 
too,  in  the  change  of  color  tone. 


.  I  nothcr  piece  of  the  same  chiffon 
I. n led  10  times  is  unfaded:  the 
tolan  are  absolutely  true  and  the 
fabric  unchanged  in  any  icuy. 
All  the  distinguished  beauty  it 
hail  when  neie  is  retained. 


■ 

If  a  color  is  safe 

in  water  alone  •  •  • 

it  *s  just  as  safe  in 

LUX 


June,  1931 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots 


By 
J  j  nics  R.  Quirk 


H 


AVE  you  seen  "Skippy"  yet?  If 
not.  gather  together  all  the  kids  you 
•can  crowd  into  your  automobile, 
visum  a  sea!  for  grandma,  and  take  them 
along  with  you.  It's  a  refreshing  treat  in 
those  cinematic  days  of  gangsters  and  hot 
mammas,  and  is  done  with  infinite  finesse 
and  insighl  into  child  psychology. 

In  the  usual  course  of  screen  events,  there 
will  follow  a  deluge  of  imitations  trying  to  cash  in  on 
Paramount ">  BUCCess  with  this  one. 

Then,  also,  in  the  usual  course  of  screen  events, 
because  some  of  the  imitations  will  l>c  crude,  there 
will  clique  a  loud  howl  from  the  DUSybodies  and  joy- 
killers  who  eternally  concern  themselves  with  our 
earthly  habits  and  heavenly  destination,  and  who 
think  the  motion  picture  should  he  submitted  to  the 
domination  of  the  same  mob  of  spiritual  gangsters 
who  put  over  prohibition. 


M 


ARK  you,    within  a  year  we  will  he  reading 
stories  like  this  in  the  daily  press: 


Enoch  /.  Bluenose,  that  ardent   worker  in  the  cause 

of  child  welfare,  declared  yesterday  that  the  screen  is  re- 
sponsible for  an  unprecedented  epidemic  of  juvenile  de- 
linquency which  threatens  to  corrupt  the  very  foundations 
of  American  home  life. 

"I  warn  even  parent  in  my  flock  to  protect  their  de.ir 
little  ones  from  the  contaminating  influence  of  the  screen, 
and   particularly  from  a   vicious  picture  called  "Skippy.'  " 

said  Mr.  Braenose 

"At  the  risk  of  personal  pollution,  I  visited  the  Para- 
mount Theater  and  viewed  this  abominable  product  ion. 
Imagine  my  surprise  and  horror  to  find  the  theater  filled 
w  ith  children  of  tender  and  impressionable  Bge. 

"These  poor  misguided  children  actually  laughed  at  the 
rascalities  of  this  reprehensible  young  character  in  the  set 
of  breaking  the  fourth  commandment.      He  roha    i  hank. 

deceives  and  disobeys  his  parents,  flaunts  the  laws,  and 
consorts  with  low  and  degrading  chara<  ' 


NO,  rather  make  sweet  little  byprocrites, 
tattle-tales    and    namby-pambies  of 

them — the  kind  <f  kids  you    would   like  to 
the  scoundrelly  Skippy  give  a  sock  in 
the  eye  just  for  good  luck. 


SMART    little    trick. 
daughter,  Constant* 


Richard     Bennett's 
e.      When    that    poor 

inexperienced  urirl  gets  busy,  the  sharp  business  men 

of  Hollywood  are  as  helpless  as  hahes. 

Her  old  Pathe  contract  gave  her  ten  weeks'  vaca- 
tion. Dili  she  go  to  Euro|M-  for  rest  and  study,  as 
they  call  it? 

She  did  not.  She  negotiated  a  deal  with  Warner 
Rros.  for  those  vacation  weeks  at  nothing  less  than 
$10,000  per. 

They  wanted  her  badly  hut  told  her  the  price  was 
too  high,  and  pointed  out  that  anyhow  the  govern- 
ment would  orah  a  big  slice  of  it  for  income  tax. 

"You're  right.  I  see  your  point."  said  the  timid 
little  hunch  of  fluffy  femininity  meekly.  "  I'll  think  it 
over." 


NFAT  day  she  told  the  big  business  men  she  had 
an  idea,  and  coyly  suggested  that  they  pay  the 
income  tax  in  addition. 

Four  executives  wen-  carried  out.  hut  before  they 

collapsed  they  agr 1.  lesl  Connie  get  another  idea 

while  in  their  weakened  condition. 

Then  she  negotiated  a  new  contract  with  RKO- 
I'athe.  They  cut  her  vacation  to  four  weeks  a  year, 
and  she  only  ^ets  a  niggardly  $25,000  a  week  while 
loafing  away  her  time. 

"I  had  been  out  late  at  a  dance  and  was  too  tired 
to  fight,"  Connie  told  a  friend  with  whom  she 
lunched  at  the  Ambassador  Hotel  that  day. 

God  help  the  producers  if  that  :-'irl  ever  catcb 
with  her  sleep. 


WHEN  Robert  Bdeson  died  in  Hollywood  at 
sixty-three,  a  unique  mail  and  spirit  went 
quietly  into  the  Sunset. 

Bob  Edeson  wasn't  unique  because  he  was  ;i  fine 
actor  and  stout  trouper  of  the  old  school — the  stages 
and  studios  still  hold  a  sprinkling  of  his  kind. 

No — Edeson  was  unique  because  among  all  men 
of  the  theater  he  most  graciously  and  successfully 
transferred  his  flag  from  the  old  theater  to  the  new 
world  of  the  screen,  and  moved  in  picture-land  a 
trusted,  kindly  adviser — a  faithful  friend  to  the 
youngsters — and  ever  a  good  actor  who  trouped 
until  illness  closed  his  make-up  box  for  all  time. 

When  he  knew  that  his  end  was  near,  he  said  to 
his  old  friend  Edmund Breese,  at  his  bedside,  "If  it's 
all  right,  Ed,  have  the  funeral  at  noon,  so  the  boys 
and  girls  can  come  without  holding  up  a  picture." 


IN  all  my  sixteen  years  as  publisher  of  Photoplay 
I  have  known  of  only  two  personalities  with  a 
following  so  devoted  that  the  idol  could  do  no 
wrong.  One  was  Valentino.  The  other  is  Greta 
Garbo. 

The  reaction  to  a  critical  article  written  by 
Katherine  Albert,  who  dared  to  question  the  artistic 
dimensions  and  divinity  of  Garbo,  was  the  most 
amazing  in  the  history  of  this  publication. 

No  sooner  was  the  magazine  on  the  newsstands 
than  letters  of  rebuke,  reproach,  condemnation, 
castigation,  disgust  and  contempt  for  both  writer 
and  publication,  started  coming  in — over  15,000  in 
all.  If  Garbomaniacs  mean  what  they  say  we'll  have 
at  least  that  many  less  readers  from  now  on. 

Do  not  miss  reading  some  of  these  letters  on  page 
14  of  this  issue.  They  offer  a  curious  insight  into  the 
reason  why  producers  will  never  be  able  to  dispense 
with  the  star  system,  and  why  many  picture  per- 
sonalities are  literally  worth  more  than  their  weight 
in  gold  in  every  production  in  which  they  appear. 


JOHN  DRINKWATER,  one  of  the  most  distin- 
guished of  living  writers,  biographer  of  Abraham 
Lincoln,  Robert  E.  Lee  and  Samuel  Pepys,  has  be- 
come the  Boswell  of  Carl  Laemmle,  head  of  the 
Universal  Company. 

Twenty-five  thousand  pieces  of  silver  is  the  re- 
ported price  that  the  distinguished  English  biog- 
rapher got  for  his  hack  job  of  a  book.  It  lauds 
Laemmle  as  the  greatest  figure  in  all  motion  pic- 
tures. Edison,  Griffith,  Zukor,  Fox;  these  chaps  are 
not  permitted  to  mess  up  Mr.  Drinkwater's  version 
of  how  Carl  Laemmle  played  the  role  of  God  in  the 
Genesis  of  picture  history. 


AS  a  piece  of  personal  aggrandizement,  it  de- 
serves any  award  in  sight.    As  a  biography,  it 
is  trash. 


Laemmle  is  frank  in  his  eternal  quest  of  publicity. 
As  to  Drinkwater — well,  when  a  guy  is  paid  ^.^OOO 
or  thereabouts,  he  has  to  say  something,  even  if  he 
does  stick  in  an  apologetic  note  here  and  there. 

Now,  Mr.  Drinkwater,  you  can  go  back  to  work 
on  your  biographies  of  those  other  great  men — 
Napoleon  and  Julius  Caesar. 

And  as  you  go  out,  close  the  door. 


NO  film  news  of  the  month  carries  as  much  sig- 
nificance to  the  industry  as  the  untimely  death 
of  Lewis  Warner,  twenty-two-year-old  and  only  son 
of  Harry  M.  Warner,  president  of  Warner  Bros.  He 
was  a  brilliant  and  utterly  unspoiled  young  man 
with  all  the  application  and  mental  balance  that 
make  for  achievement. 

I  have  rarely  seen  such  an  outpouring  of  genuine 
sorrow  and  sympathy  as  the  whole  motion  picture 
industry  evinced  on  the  occasion  of  his  passing. 


WHEN  you  go  into  a  book  store  and  see  a 
volume  called  "Stage  Struck  John  Golden," 
obey  that  impulse  and  walk  out  with  it,  even  if  you 
have  to  pay  for  it ! 

It's  a  text  book  on  the  stage,  motion  pictures, 
radio,  selling  gold  bricks,  philosophy,  humor,  big 
business,  deep  sea  fishing  and  golf,  although  it  has 
little  to  say  about  any  but  the  first  two.  I  think  it 
is  at  one  and  the  same  time  the  best  text  book  for 
motion  picture  producers  that  I  have  ever  read,  and 
one  of  the  most  delightful  volumes  that  ever  kept 
me  up  until  three  in  the  morning. 


I  DON'T  want  to  spoil  your  illusions  by  telling 
you  he  made  his  millions  (and  still  has  them)  by 
producing  clean  plays.    But  it's  so. 

One  of  the  most  fascinating  yarns  in  the  book  is 
about  the  close  call  from  oblivion  "7th  Heaven" 
had.  Golden  had  faith  in  a  little  manuscript  that 
came  to  his  office.  He  asked  Winchell  Smith,  William 
Gillette,  Edgar  Selwyn,  and  half  a  dozen  other  big- 
shot  writers  to  work  on  it.  They  couldn't  see  it.  So 
it  became  one  of  the  most  sensational  successes  in 
the  history  of  stage  or  screen,  and  made  millions. 

Golden  started  out  as  a  song  writer,  but  has  re- 
formed, and  is  today  a  fairly  respectable  citizen. 


A  FAMOUS  writer  from  New  York  had  just  left 
the  inner  office  of  one  of  the  big  moguls  of 
Hollywood. 

"That  man  has  the  most  alert  mind  I  ever  knew," 
ventured  one  of  the  ace  directors  of  the  lot. 

"Yes,  indeed,"  said  the  producer.    "It  never  stops 
until  it  reaches  the  studio." 


26 


TTARDLY  less  merciless  than  the  white  glare  of  pub- 
-*■  -*■  licity  is  this  battery  of  huge  lights  which  Clara  Bow 
faces  daily  when  she  is  making  a  picture.  That  one  at 
the  lower  left  is  a  rifle;  above,  a  sun  arc;  center,  a  twin 
or  broad,  a  spotlight  and  baby  spot;  right,  two  "inkies" 


With 

Skippy" 

on 
the 

Set 


"Don't  worry,  Sooky,  we'll  get 
Penny  back."  One  of  the 
picture's  tear-jerking  moments 


A  TOUGH  day  on  the  "Skippy"  set.  ...  It  had  been 
the  fourth  "bum  take"! 
Five-year-old  Robert  Coogan,  dressed  in  the  over- 
sized habiliments  of  Sooky,  just  couldn't  seem  to  get 
the   scene  right,   somehow.     Director   Norman  Taurog,   for 
once,  was  at  his  wits'  end.    Papa  Coogan,  always  on  the  stage, 
took  a  hand: 

"Look,  Bobbie,"  he  said  to  his  five-year-old  successor  to 
Jackie,  "you  don't  have  to  do  all  that  mugging  to  make  this 
scene.  You  can  act  it  with  your  eyes.  Why — don't  you 
remember  how  your  brother  Jackie  used  to  work?" 

Young  Robert  Coogan  drew  himself  up  to  his  full  forty- 
eight  inches  and  looked  his  father  square  in  the  eye. 

"Father,"  he  piped,  in  that  amazing  childish  treble  that 
squeaks  right  into  your  heart,  "at  my  age,  I'm  a  far  better 
actor  than  my  brother  ever  was!" 

And  the  next  take  was  perfect! 

Another  time,  Jackie  Cooper,  that  seven-year-old  genius 
who  tears  your  heart  out  as  Skippy  himself,  just  wouldn't 
look  sad  enough  when  he  peeped  through  a  screen  door  and 
saw  his  pal  Sooky  crying  his  eyeballs  out  over  the  death  of  his 
dog. 

"Come  on,  Jackie,  give  us  a  real  cry  now,"  begged  Taurog 
again  and  again.  But  Jackie,  swell  little  actor  though  he  is, 
is  more  the  boy  than  the  Thespian.  He  was  much  more  in- 
terested in  playing  with  some  toys  on  the  sidelines  than  playing 
his  role. 

0S 


Taurog  said:  "I'll  fix  him!"  He  called  Jackie  over.  "I'm 
terribly  sorry,  Jackie,"  he  said,  and  his  voice  trembled,  "but 
I'm  afraid  I  was  wrong.  I  thought  you  could  do  this  part 
— but  now  I  can  see  you  just  haven't  got  it  in  you.  I'll 
have  to  use  Tom  over  there  in  your  place  .  .  ." 

He  raised  his  voice  and  veiled  across  the  stage: 

"HEY,  BILL— GET  TOM  DRESSED  IN  SKIPPY'S 
CLOTHES  AND  MAKE  HIM  UP  RIGHT  AWAY.  I'M 
GOING  TO  FIRE  JACKIE  COOPER." 

Young  Cooper's  eyes  bulged.  His  lips  and  chin  began  to 
tremble.     Real  tears — not  fake  ones — welled  in  his  eyes. 

"Aw,  Mister  Taurog  ..." 

"W  TELL,  I'll  give  you  one  more  chance.     Try  the  scene 

W  again,"  said  the  director. 

This  time,  Jackie  Cooper's  weeping  was  perfect  for  the 
camera.     It  was  real. 

Jackie  was  crying  because  he  thought  he  was  going  to  lose 
the  part! 

But  those  two  little  incidents  are  just  two  of  thousands  that 
happened  during  the  filming  of  "Skippy"  to  show  the  methods 
the  grown-ups  had  to  use  to  achieve  the  heights  of  drama  they 
did  with  that  cast  of  five-,  six-,  and  seven-year-olds. 

The  grown-ups  couldn't  work  with  the  youngsters  as  they'd 
work  with  adult  actors.  Kids  don't  think  that  way — and  so 
the  grown-ups  had  to  be  kids  themselves,  playing  a  big  game 
with  the  child  actors. 


Clonic  on,  Idlers, 
let's  get  in  on 
the  making  of 
the  picture  and 
see  how  these 
kids  did   it 


By 

Hurry  Lcwg 


Every  dog  has  his  day  and 
here  the  dog-catcher's  boy  has 
his  before   an   envious  world 


Probably  the  most  amazing  fact  of  all  the  remarkable  things 
about  the  picture  is  this: 

That  outside  of  Coogan,  Senior,  not  one  of  the  men  who  had 
tn  authoritative  part  in  its  making — writers,  director,  super- 
visors— are  fathers  themselves! 

There's  a  squabble  of  sorts  over  who  is  most  responsible 
for  the  story  of  "Skippy."  The  title  sheet,  officially,  says 
the  original  story  is  by  Percy  Crosby  and  Sam  Mintz. 

CRi  >SBY  is  the  cartoonist  genius  who  is  Skippy 's  real  father. 
He  draws  the  Skippy  comic  strip  you  see  in  so  many  news- 
papers. Hut,  to  tell  the  truth,  Percy  Crosby  had  no  part 
whatsoever  in  the  writing  of  the  screen  story.  Sam  Mintz,  a 
fattish  young  non-father  on  the  Paramount  writing  staff,  wrote 
the  original  screen  story. 

'Crosby."  Mintz  explains,  "merely  created  the  character." 

That's  all — just  created  Skippy! 

Mintz  is  very  proud  of  his  achievement.  He's  so  proud  that 
he's  touchy  about  it.  The  other  day  on  the  Paramount  lot, 
someone  asked  him  if  he'd  written  the  "adaptation." 

•Adaptation?1"  he  roared.     "I  wrote  the  original!" 

And  he  was  in  such  a  huff  that  he  wouldn't  speak  to  any- 
body else  about  it  that  day. 

"Maybe,"  said  one  of  the  other  people  on  the  lot,  "that's 
why  he  did  such  a  good  child  story — because  he  acts  so  childish 
himself!"  But  that — well,  let's  pass  it  off  as  just  another 
Hollvwood  crack. 


The  real  genius,  perhaps,  is  Norman  Taurog,  the  directc- 
He  loves  the  cartoon  strip  of  Crosby's.  When  he  hear' 
Paramount  was  thinking  of  screening  a  Skippy  story,  he 
begged  for  the  chance  to  direct  it.     They  gave  it  to  him. 

He's  a  man  who  loves  children.  Loves  them  so  that  t  ey 
love  him  in  return.  Three  days  after  little  Robert  Coogan  .net 
him,  Robert  was  calling  him  "Norm." 

Ask  Taurog  how  he  did  it,  and  he  tells  you,  modestly,  that 
he  merely  tried  to  be  a  kid  with  the  rest  of  them.    And  he  adds: 

"We  tried  to  make  them  think  the  whole  thing  was  real — 
not  just  make-believe."  And  that,  perhaps,  is  the  fundamental 
secret  of  the  success  of  the  film.  Some  people  will  argue  it  was 
heartless  to  make  the  kids  believe  that  the  dog  was  killed — 
but  that's  what  they  did. 

OX  the  screen,  the  dog  is  named  Penny.  In  his  home  life, 
the  dog's  name  is  King  Tut — he's  just  another  of  Holly- 
wood's many  movie-trained  dogs. 

But  long  before  the  actual  shooting  of  the  picture  began. 
King  Tut  was  introduced  to  the  child  actors  as  Penny.  The 
children  were  allowed  to  play  with  him.  He  was  even  allowed 
to  go  to  their  homes  with  them.  Robert  Coogan  and  Jackie 
Cooper  got  to  love  Penny  as  only  a  kid  can  love  a  pooch. 

Then,  when  the  big  scene  in  the  dog-catcher's  effice  came, 
every  effort  was  made  to  convince  Robert  and  Jackie  that 
Penny  had  actually  been  killed.  Really,  the  children  knew  it 
was  make-believe.  But  with  that  [  please  TTJRN  to  PACE  148  | 


I  he  Screen  Social 


Where  they  dance 
with  their  present, 
or  ex,  or  going-to-be, 
and  check  their 
studio  troubles  with 
their  coats  and  hats 


Oh,  yes  indeedy — married  couples  dance  at  Mayfair  when 
Hollywood  goes  out  to  play,  dance  and  laugh.  Particularly  when 
they're  as  devoted  as  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  Montgomery.  They 
married  in  1928,  when  she  was  Elizabeth  Allen  and  they  were 
playing  together  in  a  show  called  "Dawn."  The  play  flopped — 
but  what  a  hit  the  marriage  is ! 

30 


Look!  Look!  There's  Corinne  Griffith! 
Doesn't  she  look  stunning?  And  who's  that 
tall,  good-looking  boy  she's  dancing  with — 
the  one  who's  so  tanned?  That's  Joel 
McCrea,  who  gets  so  many  leading-man 
jobs  these  days 


Event  of  the  Month 


Special   Photographs    by    Si 


The  debonair  not  to  say  dapper— Ivan  Lebe- 
deff  drinks  a  Mayfair  toast  to  the  lady  across 
the  table.  It's  Mary  Pickford  — sorry  you 
can't  see  the  back  of  her  head.  Ivan  is  a 
Mayfair  Beau  Brummcl.  He  makes  the  more 
careless  boys  feel  almost  half-dressed 


No— sorry!  They're  not  together  at  this  May- 
fair,  even  though  here  they  are  looking  at  each 
other.  At  the  left,  the  Marquis  de  la  Falaise 
leans  forward  to  catch  a  good  story.  And  at  the 
right  we  see  Gloria  Swan  son  smilingly  watch- 
ing the  merry  dancers 


And  of  course  every  Hollywood  Mayfair  has  its  outpouring 
of  filmland's  Younger  Set— and  here  are  two  of  the 
younger  and  prettier.  Sue  Carol  and  Mary  Brian,  wearing 
two  of  the  smartest  gowns  seen  at  the  party,  sit  quietly 
just  outside  the  ballroom  and  watch  the  glittering  parade 
of  starry  folk  go  by 


Plane 

Love 


A  fast  moving  tale  wherein 
the  temperamental  Charmion 
CI  ay  burn  goes  up  in  the  air 
and  rides  out  the  storm  to 
a  happy  landing 


Si 


By 

Charles  J.  McGuirk 

Illustrated  by   Frank    Godwin 


HE'S  gonna  throw  one."  Rocky  Boles,  huge  elec- 
trician, spoke  out  of  the  corner  of  his  mouth  as  he 
I  stared  toward  the  set,  his  eyes  alight  with  excitement. 
'Yep.  She's  gonna  throw  one  and  it  ought  to  be  a 
lulu  because  she  ain't  had  one  in  so  long." 

"What's  the  matter,  Rocky?"  asked  Eddie  Caine,  the 
diminutive  stage  carpenter  and  Rocky's  pal.  "You  goin'  off 
your  nut?    Who's  gonna  throw  what?" 

"The  Clayburn. "  Rocky  jerked  his  head  toward  the  set. 
"Charmion,  The  Great.  America's  and  Germany's  and  Eng- 
land's and  Italy's  and  Spain's  and  China's  and  Japan's  sweet- 
heart is  gonna  throw  a  fit.  They  call  it  temperament  when 
you're  drawin'  down  five  grand  a  week  like  she  is,  but  if  you 
or  I  did  it,  they'd  say  it  was  just  temper  and  they'd  toss  us 
off  the  lot." 

"Yeah?"  said  Eddie  looking  at  the  sullen  young  woman 
lounging  on  the  couch  under  the  lights.  "I  heard  about  that 
dame  throwin'  them  fits  but  I  never  saw  her  doin'  it.  What's 
she  do  it  for?" 

"Well,"  asked  Rocky,  "what  would  you  do  if  you  was  poor 
all  your  life  and  came  out  to  Hollywood  hitch-hikin'  and  got 
grabbed  up  in  the  movies  and  at  twenty-two  was  gettin'  five 
grand  a  week  and  five  hundred  fan  letters  a  day  and  every- 
thing was  in  your  lap?" 

"I'd  go  down  to  Ti'  Juana,"  Eddie  said,  "and  I'd  get  cock- 
eyed and  then  I'd  go  three  miles  further  to  Agua  Caliente  and 
I'd  gamble  and  every  time  I  started  to  sober  up  I'd  make 
some  beautiful  doll  pour  champagne  down  my  throat  till  I  was 
unconscious.     But  I'm  askin'  you  about  this  Clayburn  dame." 


"And  I'm  tellin'  you.  She's  got  everything  in  the  world 
and  not  a  thing  to  worry  her,  only  her  art.  Nobody  to  take 
care  of.  Nobody  to  be  responsible  to.  Every  letter  she  gets 
tells  her  she's  the  Queen  of  Sheba  and  everybody  around  her 
'Yesses'  her  blind.  That  leaves  her  with  nobody  to  think 
of  but  herself.  And  if  you  think  yourself  is  pleasant  to  be 
always  thinkin'  about  try  it  on  your  own  piano  for  a  coupla 
years.    That  dame  needs  somethin'  to  take  her  out  of  herself." 

"W  THAT  she  needs,"  Eddie  said  judiciously,  "is  a  good 

W  sock  in  the  nose. " 

"Yeah!"  Rocky  sneered.  "You  should  talk  about  sockin'  a 
woman  when  your  wife  won't  hardly  let  you  blow  your  own 
nose.  No.  That  ain't  the  answer.  If  she  wasn't  a  swell  kid, 
she  wouldn't  be  so  bad  off.  But  she's  on  the  up-and-up. 
So  when  the  pressure  gets  too  heavy,  she  throws  the  furniture 
around  and,  maybe,  swears  a  little,  and  then  it's  all  over  for  a 
while.  Right  after  one  of  them  blow-offs,  she'd  give  you  her 
shirt.     What  she  needs  is  opposition." 

"No,"  disagreed  Eddie.    "What  she  needs  is  to  get  married." 

"Well,  for  the  love  of  Mike,"  said  Rocky.  "What's  marriage 
but  opposition?    Look  at  her  now.     Get  a  load  of  her  workin' 


Lorenz's  face  still  smarted  from  the  sharp  slap  of  her 
open  hand.  She  kept  her  eyes  on  him  as  she  turned 
disdainfully  away,  and  Dave  knew  that  scene  had  not 
been  rehearsed  even  before  he  heard  Lorenz's  frantic 
whimper 


up  the  temperature.  Why.  you  can  feel  it  in  the  air  she's 
gettin'  madder*!!  madder." 

It  was  true. 

The  atmosphere  was  charged  with  a  tension  like  that  which 
precedes  a  storm.  Charmion  Clayburn.  star  of  studio's  bigger 
and  better  dramas  of  passion,  rested  on  her  side,  supported 
by  her  right  arm  on  the  couch  in  the  set.  The  set  represented 
an  actress'  dressing-room  in  a  theater  in  Algeria. 

If  the  girl  on  the  couch  was  twenty-two  in  years,  she  was 
ageless  in  appearance.  She  might  be  twenty-two — or  ninety. 
Every  line  of  her  voluptuous,  shapely  body  was  revealed  by 
her  costume  of  black  lingerie,  sheer,  black  silk  stockings  and 
extremely  high-heeled  shoes.  She  was  a  tawny  woman.  Her 
thick,  blonde  hair  was  cut  so  that  it  fell  upon  her  shoulders. 
Her  skin  was  warm,  clear  ivory.     Her  forehead  was  low  and 


broad,  her  eyes  long  and  deep  blue  under  their  long  lashes. 
Her  mouth  was  firm  and  thick-lipped,  her  cheek  bones  high 
and  her  chin  square  under  its  roundness.  A  black  negligee 
was  pulled  carelessly  over  the  middle  of  her  body. 

She  was  smoking  a  cigarette,  tapping  it  nervously  from  time 
to  time  with  a  quick,  impatient  linger  so  that  the  ashes  fell 
into  a  tiny  unheeded  heap  on  the'  floor.  Looking  at  her,  you 
would  say,  as  the  millions  who  saw  her  pictures  said,  that 
she  was  made  for  love. 

Save  for  that  impatient  finger  and  her  eyes,  she  was  motion- 
less and  seemingly  calm  and  deliberate.  Yet  those  who  knew 
her  saw  in  them  the  signs  of  the  approaching  storm  and  moved 
warily.  The  eyes  were  alive  and  smouldering.  They  darted 
at  the  three  cameras,  one  set  for  the  full  scene,  the  other  two 
for  close-ups  at  different  angles.  They  slid  past  the  box  that 
was  the  sound  compartment  in  which  the  experts  were  working 
to  synchronize  their  apparatus  with  the  cameras.  They 
leaped  at  Forrest,  the  director,  [please  turn  to  page  133] 


Beauty 

At 

Any 
Cost 


ESTHER  RALSTOX'S  gone  and  done  it.  She's  opened  the  most 
lavish  beauty  shop  in  Hollywood.  For  several  weeks  there's  been 
a  rumor  that  Marion  Davies,  Bebe  Daniels  and  Mary  Pickford 
were  about  to  open  exclusive  beaut}'  shops.  But  before  anything 
definite  was  done,  Esther  Ralston  surprised  Hollywood  with  the  startling 
"Esther's  Beauty  Salon." 

Each  marcel  and  permanent  wave  room  is  furnished  in  a  different  color 
and  the  whole  is  completely  modernistic.  But  that  isn't  all.  The  main 
features  of  the  establishment  are  the  reducing  baths  and  gymnasium. 
Ever}'  sort  of  reducing  bath  known  to  womankind  is  there,  and  also  a 
big  pool  of  cold  water  for  the  final  dip.  You  can  have  salt  rubs,  Turkish 
baths,  steam  vapor  baths,  oil  rubs,  electric  cabinets,  light  baths  of 
suntan,  ultra-violet,  infra-ray,  or  a  marathon  bath  (sitting  in  a  tub 
of  water  for  a  few  hours). 

There  is  a  total  of  125  rooms,  and  it  cost  Esther  something  like  $150,000 
to  start.  Husband  George  Webb  will,  of  course,  be  manager-in-chief. 
Nothing  like  it  has  ever  been  seen  in  Hollywood  before. 


The  marble  plunge  in  Esther 
Ralston's  palatial  new  beauty 
salon.  Here  the  ladies  in 
search  of  health,  slimness 
and  beauty  can  swim  and 
dive  to  their  hearts'  content. 
Adjustable  hot  and  ice-cold 
needle  showers  can  be  placed 
around  the  edges  at  will 


One  of  the  twelve  rest  rooms. 
The  ceilings  of  the  rooms  are 
latticed  so  that  the  blue  sky  may 
be  seen.  Each  room  is  equipped 
with  a  radio   set 


The  three  ages  of  Farina.  Left, 
The  Black  Spot  as  he  made  his 
"Our  Gang"  debut  at  two  and 
a  half.  Right,  at  four,  he  tucks 
into  a  Dixie  Dewberry.  And 
center,  almost  eleven  and  too 
big  to  be  cute  any  more.  Last 
stage  of  all — and  exit! 


etired  at  Eleven 


NIXE  years  ago  a  tiny  black 
dot  was  fcMB «d  to  the  mer- 
cies of  that  band  of  young 
hellions  known  as  "Our 
Gang.''  There  was  practically  noth- 
ing to  this  dot  but  huge,  rolling 
eyes  and  a  mass  of  kinky  woolen  hair. 
It  was  christened  Farina,  dressed  in 
rags  and  immediately  hit  in  the  face 
with  a  cocoanut  custard  pie. 

Thus  began  the  motion  picture  career  of  Master  Allen 
Clayton  Hoskins,  famous  as  the  unapproachable  Farina,  and 
now  known  in  song  and  story  as  the  founder  of  the  realistic 
school  of  acting — the-sufifer-and-mean-it  type — in  the  film 
world. 

At  the  age  of  two  and  a  bit,  Master  Hoskins  was  the  un- 
questioned leader  of  his  school. 

Today,  a  spindly  colored  boy  of  eleven.  Master  Hoskins 
leaves  "Our  Gang."  becoming  the  second  alumnus  of  his 
tinting  to  be  graduated  because  he  is  no  longer  little  and 
'•cute." 

His  predecessor  was  the  once-noted  "Sunshine  Sammy," 
now  in  the  vaudeville  halls. 

And  so  Farina  passes  definitely  out  of  the  picture!  In 
reality,  he  passed  a  few  years  ago — when  he  began  to  realize 
that  when  he  was  placed  tenderly  on  the  edge  of  a  cliff,  it 
wasn't  just  to  admire  the  view.     He  was  to  be  pushed  off. 

Just  the  same.  Farina's  departure  from  "Our  Gang"  marks 
the  end  of  another  era  in  picture  history  Few  actors  can  say 
that  at  three  they  were  knocking  'em  dead  all  over  the  United 
States — that  people  by  the  thousands  went  to  picture  theaters 
to  see  them  instead  of  the  feature. 


The  famous  Black 
Dot  leaves  "Our 
Gang,"  and  marks 
the  end  of  an  epoch 


Farina  can.    And  whenever  we 
old  grizzled  fans  gather  round  the 
cider  (soft)  barrel  in  days  to  come, 
always,  in  the  course  of  the  con- 
fab, some  one  will  say,  "Gaffer,  do 
you   remember   the   time    Parina 
was  kicked  over  the  corn-crib  by 
a  mule?"   And  we  shall  remember 
and   igh,  knowing  that  the  movies 
are  graying  at  the  temples. 
Farina  fascinated  us  because  he  ut  was  she  at  the  time)  was 
the  perfect  incarnation  of  poor,  witless  Man's  struggles  against 
inscrutable,  and  very  rough  and  dirty.  Fate.     What  a  sucker 
Farina's  pictures  made  of  the  silly  movie  "plots."       In  the 
face  of  Farina's  catastrophes,  what  could  interest  us  about  the 
struggles  of  two  enameled  actresses  for  the  favor  of  a  Number 
Five  Company  of  Rudolph  Valentino? 

Things  happened  to  Farina  that  could  happen  to  us,  and 
often  did,  in  other  ways.  We.  too,  were  Fate's  footballs. 
When  Farina  was  hurt,  we  were  too — though  not  in  the  same 
places. 

FARINA,  at  three,  was  Trusting  Man.  He  hadn't  reached 
the  age  of  reason,  when  all  the  trouble  starts.  Fate,  in  the 
imagination  of  his  brilliant  (I  mean  brilliant)  director,  Bob 
McGowan,  kissed  or  killed  him  according  to  its  dictates.  It 
was  like  Life — by  the  sainted  Griffith,  it  was  life! 

And  we  loved  Farina — because  Farina,  a  three-year-old 
fragment  of  ebony,  was  ourselves. 

Most  of  the  time  Farina  rollicked  happily  around  the  Hal 
Roach  lot,  disguised  as  a  girl  by  hated  skirts  and  worse  hated 
pigtails.     Then  came  the  call  of    [  please  turn  to  page  125  ] 


A  BEAUTIFUL  young  trouper  comes  back  to  the  teem- 
•*-  *•  ing  studio!  After  two  years  of  retirement,  during 
which  she  achieved  happy  motherhood,  Dolores  Costello 
Barry  more  is  shown  studying  her  lines  for  "Expensive 
Women,"  her  comeback 


\J{  A  Baby  Kept  a  Diary 


M  iss  Do  lores 
Ethel  Mae  Barry- 
more  checks  up 
and  reports  on  a 
heavy  day  in 
Hollywood 


By 

Carlisle 
Jones 


WEDNESDAY.  Woke  up  thinking  it  a  long  time 
between  bottles.  Blew  bubbles  for  half  an  hour, 
hoping  nurse  would  wake  up.  She  didn't.  Counted 
my  toes.    Have  ten  of  them. 

The  sun  dial  in  the  patio  said  it  was  six  o'clock.  Funny  old 
sun  dial.  Dad  bought  it  from  an  importer  who  said  it  came 
from  an  old  English  garden.  Some  day  I'll  climb  it  and  jump 
into  the  pool  Dad  built  around  it.  But  I'll  have  to  wait 
until  he  takes  down  that  ugly  wire  fence  he  built  around  the 
pool.    ''No  Barrymore  has  ever  drowned — in  water,"  Dad  said. 

Decided  to  wake  nurse  at  all  costs.  Yelled.  Yelled  again. 
I  yelled  like  Dad  did  that  day  he  got  a  note  from  the  studio 
asking  him  to  work  on  Sunday.  That  brought  results.  Nurse 
showed  up,  all  dressed  and  smiling. 

I  knew  right  then  something  was  wrong.  Nurse  never 
smiles  before  seven  o'clock,  no  matter  how  hard  a  Barrvmore 
yells. 

Walter  went  by  the  window.  Walter  is  Dad's  butler.  Once 
he  went  with  us  on  a  trip  on  that  big  boat  Dad  and  Mother 
named  for  me,  the  Infanta.  It  was  lots  of  fun,  but  Walter 
didn't  think  so.  He  was  always  so  busy  by  the  rail  up  on 
deck  he  never  had  time  to  buttle.  Dad  said  after  that  he 
would  leave  Walter  at  home.  But  Walter  being  up  at  six 
o'clock  by  the  sun  dial,  which  isn't  right  most  of  the  time 
anyway,  made  me  certain  something  was  wrong. 

I  sat  up. 

Saw  myself  in  the  mirror.     My  profile  is  better  than  it  was. 

All  the  birds  in  that  bird  house  Dad  takes  such  stock  in  were 
squawking.  I  knew  Bob  must  be  feeding  them  and  I  thought, 
if  the  Barrymore  birds  are  having  breakfast  it's  time  the 
Barrymore  baby  is  fed,  too.  I  yelled  louder  than  ever.  I 
yelled  so  loud  that  Scotty  scratched  on  my  window  from  the 


At  the  end  of  a  busy  day  on  the  Warner  lot,  the  Barry- 
more family  is  ready  to  go  home  for  supper.  Mamma 
Dolores  holds  Dolores  Ethel  Mae.  Shortly  after  this 
was  snapped,  the  infant  took  a  tug  at  the  gent's  whiskers. 
Off  they  came,  and  there  was  Pop  Jack  himself! 


patio,  and  that  funny  new  dog  Dad  paid  so  much  money  for, 
that  "Terry  Blue  Terrier,"  started  to  bark. 

Nurse  picked  me  up  and  did  what  was  necessary  to  do  to 
get  me  readv  for  breakfast.  After  all,  I'm  onlv  about  a  year 
old. 

She  sat  me  in  my  high  chair  by  the  breakfast  table  and  put 
on  that  fussy  bib  my  Aunt  Ethel  sent  me.  It's  lovely  but  it's 
full  of  holes.  Mother  says  it's  the  most  beautiful  Italian  em- 
broidery, but  I  think  it's  just  full  of  holes. 

Walter  brought  me  my  cereal.  I  got  a  gold  star  two  days 
running  for  eating  all  my  cereal,  but  I  was  too  excited  this 
morning  to  eat.  Walter  was  excited,  too.  He  set  places  for 
Dad  and  Mother  near  me  and  the  sun  dial  said  it  wasn't 
six-thirty  yet.     I  just  knew  something  was  going  to  happen! 

SURE  enough.  Mother  came  in  before  I  had  eaten  a  single 
one  of  my  prunes.  Nurse  tries  to  make  believe  prunes  are 
candy  but  you  can't  fool  a  Barrymore  with  prunes. 

Mother  was  excited,  too.  I  knew  right  then  that  Dad  would 
be  getting  up  early,  too,  and  I  knew  what  that  meant.  He 
would  be  going  to  what  they  call  the  studio,  and  wouldn't 
have  time  to  play  with  me  until  just  before  I  was  ready  for 
bed.  And  nurse  would  scold  because  he  played  with  me  then. 
A  baby  with  a  full  stomach  shouldn't  be  tossed,  she  says. 

But  Dad  just  grins  and  tosses  me  anyway.  He's  a  great 
old  tosser. 

Then  Dad  came  in. 

He  kissed  Mother  and  grinned  at  me.  Then  he  poked  his 
finger  toward  my  tummy  and  said:    [please  turn  to  page  143] 


Su 

Att 


pporting 


ractions. 


/ 


These  perfect  specimens 
belong  to  a  former  musical 
comedy  star.  They 
marched  in  a  famous 
talkie  "Parade" 


These  shapely  limbs  once 
twinkled  in  musical  re- 
vues. They  support  a  fa- 
mousyoung  emotional  star 


Are  these  the  most  beau- 
tiful legs  in  Hollywood? 
You'll  be  surprised  when 
you  find  whose  they  are 


The  property  of  one  who 

is  often  affectionately 

called   "The   Grand    Old 

Lady  of  the  Talkies" 


Ja  wohl!  She 
might  have  done 
very  well  with- 
out them,  but 
they  did  help 
put  her  over! 


Whose  L 


egS  are 


Tl 


iese 


A  study  in  anatomy  and 

one  phase  of  talkies  that 

causes  no  sound  problems 

See  Answers  on  Page  1 1 Q 


These  were  originally  im- 
ported from  England,  and 
you've  seen  them  many 
and  many  a  time  on  the 
screen 


She  hated  to  be  known  as 

the  possessor  of  the  most 

beautiful  legs  on  the  stage. 

She  can  act,  too 


Now,  children,  if  you  can- 
not guess  these  you'll 
simply  have  to  go  right  to 
the  foot  of  the  class 


Whenever  the 
studio  needs  to 
put  over  a  pub- 
licity picture, 
they  just  take  a 
picture  of  these 


You  see   more  of  these, 

in   her    latest    picture, 

than  you  have  ever 

seen  before 


$5,000™  in  Prizes 


1      Seventy  cash  prizes  will  be  paid  by 
*   Photoplay  Magazine,  as  follows: 


First  Prize $1,000.00 

Second  Prize 750.00 

Third  Prize 500.00 

Fourth  Prize 300.00 

Fifth  Prize 200.00 

Twenty-five  Prizes  of  $50 

each 1,250.00 

Forty  Prizes  of  S25  each. .  1,000.00 


7  In  four  issues  (the  June,  July, 
August  and  September  numbers) 
Photoplay  Magazine  is  publishing  cut 
puzzle  pictures  of  well-known  motion 
picture  actors  and  actresses.  Eight  com- 
plete cut  puzzle  pictures  appear  in  each 
issue.  Each  cut  puzzle  picture  will  con- 
sist of  the  lower  face  and  shoulders  of  one 
player,  the  nose  and  eyes  of  another,  and 
the  upper  face  of  a  third.  When  cut  apart 
and  properly  assembled,  eight  complete 
portraits  may  be  produced.  S5,000.00  in 
prizes,  as  specified  in  rule  No.  1,  will  be 
paid  to  the  persons  sending  in  the  nearest 
correctly  named  and  most  neatly  ar- 
ranged set  of  thirty-two  portraits. 


'l  Do  not  submit  any  solutions  or 
answers  until  after  the  fourth  set  of 
cut  puzzle  pictures  has  appeared  in  the 
September  issue.  Assembled  puzzle  pic- 
tures must  be  submitted  in  sets  of  thirty- 
two  only.  Identifying  names  should  be 
written  or  typewritten  below  each  as- 
sembled portrait.  At  the  conclusion  of 
the  contest  all  pictures  should  be  sent 
to  CUT  PICTURE  PUZZLE  EDITORS. 
Photoplay  Magazine,  919  North 
Michigan  Avenue,  Chicago,  111.  Be  sure 
that  your  full  name  and  complete  address 
is  written  on,  or  attached  to,  your  entry; 
that  your  entry  is  securely  packed  to 
guard  against  damage  in  transit;  and 
that  it  carries  sufficient  postage  to  avoid 
delay. 


Read  the  Rules 
Carefully  Before 
Using    Scissors 


A  Contestants  can  obtain  help  in  solv- 
ing the  cut  puzzle  pictures  by  care- 
fully studying  the  poems  appearing  be- 
low the  pictures  in  each  issue.  Each 
eight-line  verse  refers  to  the  two  sets  of 
cut  puzzle  pictures  appearing  directly 
above  it.  The  six-line  verse  applies  gen- 
erally to  the  four  sets  on  that  page.  Bear 
in  mind  that  it  costs  absolutely  nothing 
to  enter  this  contest.  Indeed,  the  contest 
is  purely  an  amusement.  You  do  not 
need  to  be  a  subscriber  or  reader  of 
Photoplay  Magazine  to 'compete.  You 
do  not  have  to  buy  a  single  issue.  You 
may  copy  or  trace  the  pictures  from  the 
originals  in  Photoplay  Magazine  and 
assemble  the  pictures  from  the  copies. 
Copies  of  Photoplay  Magazine  may  be 
examined  at  the  New  York  and  Chicago 
offices  of  the  publication,  or  at  public 
libraries,  free  of  charge. 


C  Aside  from  accuracy  in  assembling 
and  identifying  cut  puzzle  pictures, 
neatness  and  originality  in  contestants' 
methods  of  submitting  solutions  will  be 
considered  in  awarding  prizes.  The  thirty- 
two  cut  puzzle  pictures,  or  their  drawn 
duplicates,  must  be  cut  apart,  assembled 
and  pasted  or  pinned  together,  with  the 
name  of  the  player  written  or  typewritten 
below. 


C>     The  judges   will   be   a   committee 

of  members  of  Photoplay 

Magazine's  staff.    Their  derision  will  be 

final.     No  relatives  or  members  of  the 

household  of  anyone  connected  with  this 


publication  can  submit  solutions.  Other- 
wise, the  contest  is  open  to  everyone 
everywhere. 


"J      In  the  case  of  ties  for  any  of  the 
prizes  offered   the  full  amount  of 
the  prize  tied  for  will  be  given  to  each 
tying  contestant. 


Q  The  contest  will  close  at  midnight 
on  September  20th.  All  solutions 
received  from  the  time  the  fourth  set  of 
pictures  appears  to  the  moment  of  mid- 
night on  September  20th  will  be  con- 
sidered by  the  judges.  No  responsibility 
in  the  matter  of  mail  delays  or  losses  will 
rest  with  Photoplay  Magazine.  Send 
your  answers  as  soon  as  possible  after 
the  last  set  of  cut  puzzle  pictures  appears 
in  the  September  issue,  which  will  be  for 
sale  on  the  newsstands  on  or  about 
August  15th.  The  prize  winners  will  be 
announced  in  the  January,  1932.  issue 
of  Photoplay. 


Q  Because  of  the  time  and  labor  re- 
quired to  re-pack  and  re-ship  thou- 
sands of  entries,  it  will  be  impossible  to 
return  any  of  them.  They  will  be  sent 
to  hospitals  and  orphanages  to  gladden 
the  hearts  of  sick  and  homeless  children. 


Q  •  Contestants  should 

suggestions  studv  the  poems  ap- 
pearing in  connection  with  the  cut  puzzle 
pictures.  These  are  the  indicators  for 
identifying  the  contest  puzzle  pictures 
and  winning  prizes. 

It  is  suggested  that  contestants  merely 
pin  their  solutions  together  until  the  four 
sets  of  pictures  are  complete.  This  will 
permit  the  shifting  and  changing  about 
of  pictures  as  the  contest  progresses — and 
will  give  time  for  lengthy  consideration 
and  study. 

Each  cut  puzzle  picture  is  a  portrait  of 
a  well-known  motion  picture  actor  or 
actress. 


70  headers  M»/  Ww 


Follow  the  Arrows 


AO 


^TONCHALANT,  summery   .inJ   3portive   in   attire.   Mr.   P.iUl   Lukas 
1  X  looks  at  US  with  eyes  which  have  the  calmness  and  assurance  of  su 
Since  whipping  his  accent  to  a  frazzle.  Paul  has  gone  from  hit  to  hit  for  Para- 
mount.    His  newest  is  "The  Vice  Squad,"  with  Kay  Francis  opposite  him. 
And  what  a  team  it  is1 


This  Way  to  Cut  Puzzle 


Turn  Ovei 


Photoplay  Magazine's  New  $5,000  Cut  Puzzle  Contest 


WlP      ^3^ 


Upper 
The  hair  is  a  lovely  perennial  hridc. 
The  eyes  as  a  vamp  can't  be  beat 
The  mouth  was  demure  when  she  started  to  star. 
But  her  roles  aren't,  now,  quite  so  sweet  ' 

Lower 
The  hair  has  made  many  a  fine  costume  play, 
The  eves  iire  from  London,  no  less, 
The  mouth  is  in  love  \*uh  her  husband,  a  fact 
nly  too  glad  to  confess. 


Upper 
The  hair  is  the  eldest  of  three  of  a  kind. 
The  eyes  danced  their  uay  to  the  top. 
The  mouth  came  from  Brooklyn;  she  made  a  success 
That  even  poor  roles  couldn't  stop 

Lower 
The  hair  has  been  married — but  now  is  divorced; 
The  eyes  kneu    al  first,  stage  acclaim — 
The  mouth  has  a  great  acting  father,  and  she 
Has  followed  his  footsteps  to  fame 


RESUME 

Three  o)  them  arc  blondes,  but  one  girl  has  red  hair. 

Three  of  them  hair  eyes  thai  are  light 

Three  of  them  were  married     iusi  one  has  stayed  put' 

And  each,  as  a  star,  flickers  bright 

Three  knew  stage  careers,  and  tuo  studied  a> 

And  there's  nothing  in  lijc  that  the  Jour  can't  afford 


Complete    Rules   for   Competition    .Appear  on    Page  40 


Upper 

The  hair  was  a  cowboy  because  of  his  health, 
\  daughter  belongs  to  the  eyes; 

The  mouth  gamed  his  learning  at  Staunton.  M     \  . 
And  he  s  made  a  remarkable  rise 

lower 


i*hc  hair  is  unmarried,  though  many  maids  yearn. 

have  portrayed  Phiio 
rtie  m  >uth  is  a  handsome,  decided  brunette. 
And  he's  twice  felt  the  touch  of  romance. 


•per 
The  hair  was  divorced  from  a  dancer  of  note. 
The  eves  as  an  extra  were  started 

The  mouth  for  ten  years  knew  the  lure  of  the  boards. 
\r*J  he  from  his  wile  has  been  parted 
Lower 


The  hair  has  gone  in  tor  v^shisticale  roles. 

•irst  saw  light  New  Year's  d  13 
The  mouth  has  supported  a  new  foreign  star 
In  a  \1\1d  North  African  plav 

RESi  WE 
Ml  Jour  now  ./if*  hair,  but  'mi  Ian  hure  dark  t 
\na  tuv  fi  thtm  .tsiyrJ  Cupid'*  dorti 
\nd  one  wtu  an  extra,  and  ick  — 

Hut  all  »>/  the- 

:  I  irenx  the  East,  and  OfW  \**lh  and  one  Writ. 
\nd  ,t  would  he  >:..  -,!( 


TROUBLES?  This  smiling  and  lovely  lady  who  for  more  than  ten  years 
has  been  one  of  the  most  glamorous,  admired  and  popular  queens  of 
the  immortal  cinema?  We  can't  believe  it,  but  the  story  about  Gloria  Swanson, 
just  across  the  way,  tells  fascinatingly  about  some  of  them.  And  how  we're 
anticipating  a  look  at  her  new  picture,  teasingly  titled  "Indiscreet"! 


Remember  Ella  Wheeler 
Wilcox's  famous  lines,  "But 
the  man  worth  while  is  the 
one  who  will  smile  when 
everything  goes  dead  wron^'V 
That  goes  for  Gloria  Swan  son. 
Here  is  a  photograph  of  Gloria 
and  the  Marquis  taken  toward 
the  end  of  the  production  of 
that  mil.ion-dollar  fiasco,  the 
never  released  "Queen 
K<llv."  At  the  same  time  her 
troubles  with  the  Marquis 
had  started 


The  Troubles  of  Gloria 


GLORIA  SWANSON  is 
the  only  woman  who  still 
produces  her  own  pictures. 
Day  after  day  she  faces 
problems  that  would  confound  the 
greatest  financiers  and  harass  the 
greatest  executives.  And  she  fa<  es 
these  problems  alone. 

Even  Mary  Pickford.  wise  from 

her  many  years  of  experience  and 
surrounded  by  an  excellent  staff, 
ha>  given  up  producing.   Without 

her   mother   to  shoulder  some  of 

the  responsibility,  Mary  felt  pro- 
ducing was  too  great  an  under- 
taking. 

There  are.  S3  a  matter  of  fact,  only  two  stars  besides  Gloria 
who  continue  to  produce  Harold  Lloyd  and  Charlie  Chaplin. 
Harold  makes  but  one  picture  a  year  and  Charlie  less  than 
this  And  both  of  these  men  have  loyal  organizations  of  years' 
standing.  Gloria,  on  the  other  hand,  makes  several  pictures  a 
year.  And  there  is  absolutely  no  one  to  whom  she  can  turn. 
She  has  no  shrewd  relatives  capable  of  advising  her.  and  no 
tested  and  tried  staff  on  which  she  can  depend. 

Take  the  instance  of  "Queen  Kelly."  Gloria  had  about  half 
finished  this  production  when  the  talkies  arrived.  She  had 
one  million  dollars  already  invested.  Was  it  advisable  to  go 
ahead,  finish  it.  risk  public  favor  by  releasing  a  silent  picture 
when  the  trend  favored  the  new  talkie?  Or  was  it  wiser  to 
junk  "Queen  Kelly"  and  chalk  up  the  one  million  dollars  to 
loss?  Gloria  decided  to  junk  it.  A  momentous  decision.  And, 
as  usual,  one  she  made  alone. 

Naturally,  a  crisis  like  this  will  not  repeat  itself.  But  there 
are  a  hundred  other  emergencies  that  could  and  have  occurred. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  dozens  of  things,  more  or  less  unexpected, 
arise  to  jeopardize  every  picture  Gloria  makes.  And  she  has 
to  deal  with  these  grave  matters  when  she  is  wearing  the 
grease-paint  and  should  have  her  mind  free  for  her  work. 

When  "The  Love  of  Sunya,"  her  first  independent  pro- 
duction, was  in  the  making,  Gloria  felt  the  photography  was 
not  what  it  should  be.  Six  times  in 
the  middle  of  production  she  changed 
cameramen.    No  half-way  measures  for 


Read  this  and  ask  your- 
self if  you  envy  this 
woman  who  has  more 
responsibilities  and 
worries  than  any 
individual  in    pictures 


By  Ruth   Bier y 


Gloria.  Each  change  meant  re- 
takes and  delays.  And  as  a  result 
of  these  delays,  the  overhead  in- 
creased to  such  an  extent  that 
Gloria  was  faced  with  a  need  to 
raise  more  money  before  she  could 
finish  the  picture.  Therefore,  she 
invited  her  bankers  to  lunch  with 
her  one  day  in  her  suite  at  the 
studios.  And,  facing  them  across 
her  beautifully  appointed  table, 
she  explained  what  had  happened 
and  asked  for  an  additional  loan. 
They  protested,  those  three 
stern-faced  men  who  would  have 
intimidated  most  women,  that 
they  could  not  oblige  her.  They  insisted  the  anticipated 
profits  on  the  picture  did  not  warrant  them  giving  her  any 
more  money.  Undoubtedly,  they  accused  her  of  bad  manage- 
ment and  extravagance.     The  way  bankers  will. 

But  Gloria  refused  to  accept  their  first  decision.  She 
couldn't  afford  to  accept  it.  Before  they  left  that  room,  she 
knew  she  must  have  their  promise  of  many  thousands  of 
dollars.     At  any  cost. 

IT  was  hours  later  that  she  rejoined  her  waiting  company  on 
the  stage.  She  was  wearing  that  white  dress  with  the  pale 
blue  sash  which  she  wore  as  the  young  Sunyc  who  saw  her 
future  in  the  crystal  ball.  She  looked  a  care  free  twenty. 
But  she  was  far  from  that.  Far  from  carefree.  Even  though 
she  had  negotiated  the  desired  loan  and  the  deposit  was  to  be 
made  to  her  account  the  following  morning.  Persistent  rumor 
has  it  that  Gloria  got  that  money  only  by  signing  a  note 
pledging  her  share  of  the  profits  on  the  picture  as  extra  col- 
lateral. 

Had  Gloria  remained  with  Paramount,  she  would  have 
escaped  all  such  responsibility  and  worn-.  Paramount  offered 
her  twenty  thousand  dollars  a  week  for  a  period  of  two  years. 
They  would  have  bought  her  stories,  engaged  her  directors 
and  cameramen  and  casts.  They  would  have  shouldered  all 
the  financial  and  production  details.  All 
Gloria  would  have  had  to  do  was  play 
the  parts  [  please  tvrx  to  page  138  ] 


Her    coarse    sheets    became    warm    silver    sands.      The 

ceiling  of  her  meager  room  was  the  white  roof  of  an  Arab 

tent.     And  she  seemed  to  hear  the  beat  of  his  horse's 

hoofs,  bringing  him  to  her,  crowding  out  all  other  men 


1 


Hands  I  \^oved 


GLADYS  BROWN  had  never  read  O.  Henry's  story 
about  the  girl  who  was  saved,  from  what  might  have 
been  called  a  mistake,  by  the  photograph  of  Kitchener! 
Gladys  Brown  didn't  read  very  much,  at  that.  To  her, 
O.  Henry  was  the  name  of  a  candy;  to  her,  a  Kitchener  might 
have  been  something  that  you  used  in  a  kitchen — some  new- 
fangled sort  of  cabinet,  perhaps: 

And  yet  the  story  of  Gladys  Brown  was  like  O.  Henry's 
story  in  the  essentials.     In  more  than  the  essentials! 

You  all — but  of  course,  you  all  know  the  story  that  O.  Henry 
wrote  quite  a  long  while  ago.  About  the  girl  who  worshipped 
the  photograph  of  that  English  Lord  who  was  to  go  down  to 
his  heroic  death  in  a  sinking  ship  just  off  the  Orkneys,  during 
the  middle  of  the  World  War. 

The  girl  was  a  thin  little  shop  girl — she  didn't  have  a 
sufficiency  of  food  or  clothes;  she  was  submerged  in  poverty. 
But  she  had  something  which  must  have  been  the  early 
twentieth  century  equivalent  of  it.  For  she  had  attracted  the 
roving  eye  of  a  certain  gentleman  known  as  "Piggy" — who  was 
just  like  the  nickname  with  which  his  intimates  had  labeled  him. 

The  girl  in  0.  Henry's  story  (her  name  was  Dulcie;  not  that 
it  matters,  here!)  didn't  like  Piggy.     Kitchener  was  her  type. 


By  Margaret  E.  Sangster 


But  Piggy  was  generous,  even  though  he  sometimes  expected 
too  much  in  return  for  his  generosity.  And  the  girl  was — 
hungry.  And  so  she  consented  to  dine  with  Piggy.  And  she 
went  home  to  dress. 

And  as  she  was  dressing  in  front  of  her  bureau,  she  saw  the 
photograph  of  General  Kitchener  (which  decorated  that  bu- 
reau) looking  at  her  with  something  that  she  took  for  reproach 
in  its  grave,  wonderful  eyes. 

And  so,  when  Piggy  called  for  her,  the  girl  told  him  that  she 
couldn't  go  to  dinner  with  him.     Just  like  that  .  .  . 

And  the  story  ends,  approximately,  there. 

*     *     * 

GLADYS  BROWN  was  like  O.  Henry's  Dulcie  in  many  re- 
spects. She  was  thin,  she  was  tired,  she  was  underpaid,  and 
she  was  a  shop  girl.  Also — she  had  it!  Not  the  it  of  thirty 
years  ago;  this  year's  version. 

She  wore  her  hair  after  the  manner  of  Greta  Garbo  (thank 
heaven  it  had  a  natural  wave!).    She  pulled  her  eyebrows, 


The  story  of  a  ^irl  who  took  screen  romance  too  seriously 


laboriously,  every  Sunday,  until 
only  a  narrow  penciled  line  was 
left  above  each  eye.  She  religiously  manicured  her  slender, 
rather  lovely  hands. 

Her  very  thinness,  though  it  may  have  been  the  result  of  a 
meager  diet,  was  charming— even  in  this  year  of  gracious 
curves,  nobody  could  find  fault  with  the  figure  of  Gladys 
Brown.    It  was  as  slight  and  graceful  as  a  willow  tree. 

Oh,  even  in  occupation,  even  in  physical  characteristics,  the 
likeness  held.  And,  to  go  a  step  farther,  O.  Henry's  heroine 
and  Gladys  had  another  bond  in  common.  They  were  both 
hero  worshippers.  Only,  on  her  bureau— in  very  much  the 
same  position  as  that  which  was  once  held  by  Dulcie's  Kitchener 
—Gladys  had  enthroned  the  likeness  of  a  slender,  dark  bov 
with  somber,  beautiful,  mysterious  eyes,  and  a  poetic  mouth, 
and  a  firm-jawed,  sensitively  masculine  face. 


Yes,  you've  guessed  it.  Rudolph  Valentino!  Gladys  had 
adored  him  since  first  he  tangoed  into  her  vision  in  "The  Four 
Horsemen."  She  had  followed  him  through  the  meteor-like 
progress  of  his  too  short  career.  There  had  been  times  when  it 
had  been  seeing  a  Valentino  picture,  or  eating — and  at  such 
a  time  Gladys  had  never  hesitated.  She  had  gone  hungry  t<> 
bed.  But,  though  her  tummy  had  been  empty,  her  heart  hail 
been  full! 

Gladys  had  loved  Valentino  at  first  sight.  She — with  a 
million  or  more  other  women — had  loved  him  in  even-  picture 
that  he  ever  made.  And  now.  even  after  he  had  been  dead  for 
five  years — she  still  loved  him.  Loved  him  so  truly  that  his 
phantom  likeness  stood  between  her  and  the  eager  advances 
of  the  goodly  number  oi  men  who  would  have  loved  her! 

I  don't  mean  by  this  that  Gladys  Brown  was  cloistered.  I 
don't  mean  that  she  stayed  at  home,  mooning — no,  indeed! 
She  wasn't  the  mooning  sort. 

She  went  to  her  share  of  the  dances  of  the  Anawa  Social 
Club.  She  went  to  the  theater,  every  so  often,  and  grudgingly 
allowed  the  young  man,  who  escorted  her.  to  hold  her  hand 
when  the  romance,  on  the  other  side  of  the  footlights,  grew 
impassioned.  She  went  to  dinner — usually  a  regular  Saturday 
night  table  </'  hotc.  She  went  dancing — sometimes  she  dared  a 
blind  date.  But  her  affairs  never  seemed  to  get  beyond  the 
hand-holding  stage — not  even  in  taxi-cabs,  they  didn't! 

And  so  Gladys  Brown  achieved  for  herself  the  reputation  of 
being  cold.  And  her  most  ardent  suitors,  after  a  matter  of  five 
or  six  weeks,  moved  along  to  more  torrid  (and  more  receptivel 


He  left  her  at  her 
door,  her  hand  tin- 
gling to  the  pressure 
of  his.  "If  he  asks 
me,"  she  told  herself, 
"I'll  marry  him" 


fields.  And  Gladys  Brown,  not  in 
the  least  sorry  (well,  maybe  just  a 
tiny  bit  lonely,  but  not  sorry!)  went 
up  to  her  small,  cheap  room,  and 
looked  affectionately  at  the  photo- 
graph of  Rudolph  Valentino. 

Sometimes  she  did  more  than  look, 
too.     Sometimes  she  had  long,  glo- 
rious, throbbing  imaginary  conversations  with  him. 
Sometimes  she  felt  the  touch  of  his  fingers — some- 
times   (rapture    of    raptures!)    she    imagined    the 
pressure  of  his  lips. 

And  sometimes,  after  the  lights  were  out,  and  she 
was  in  bed,  her  very  coarse  sheets  were  warm  silver 
sands.    And  the  ceiling  of  her  room  was  the  white  roof  of  an 
Arab  tent.    And,  as  she  strained  her  ears,  to  listen,  she  could 
hear  the  beat  of  hoofs,  as  his  horse  (Rudy's  horse — the  Sheik's 
horse!)    brought    him    toward    her    across    the    desert  .  .  .  . 

So  it  went — so  it  had  gone,  for  years.  Every  day  the  same — 
with  life  moving  like  a  whirlpool  in  front  of  her  counter  in  the 
department  store  where  she  worked.  Every  evening  the  same, 
up  to  a  point.  A  dinner,  a  show,  a  dance.  The  groping  of  a 
masculine  hand  for  her  hand.  Lips  denied,  as  the  farewells 
were  said  in  front  of  a  rooming  house. 

And  then  the  small,  sparsely  furnished  room.  And  Rudy 
Valentino's  picture — and  himself!  Himself,  through  the  long 
mysterious  nights. 

So  it  went.  Until  Kent  Carrington  became  advertising  mana- 
ger of  the  department  store — and,  incidentally,  the  answer  to 
every  maiden  clerk's  prayer.  Every  one,  that  is,  except 
Gladys. 


PERHAPS  it  was  her  aloof  air— an  air  that  rang  actually  true- 
that  attracted  Kent.  For  Kent's  life  had  been  made  up  of  one 
easy  conquest  after  another.  Perhaps  it  was  a  certain  glamor — 
the  glamor  of  mystery — that  clung  about  Gladys. 

Perhaps  it  was  only  the  youth  of  her,  and  her  appeal,  and 
her  prettiness.  Perhaps  Kent's  interest  didn't  go  beyond  the 
birch  tree  figure,  and  the  Garbo  haircomband  the  slender,  rosy- 
finger-nailed  hands. 


But  no  matter  what 
it  was,  Kent  Carring- 
ton   was    drawn — ir- 
resistibly drawn — to  Gladys  Brown.     And,  not  being  a  shy 
soul,  he  made  no  secret  of  his  feeling  for  her. 

"Say,  Baby,"  he  remarked,  blandly,  when  he  first  caught 
sight  of  her  standing  behind  her  counter,  "where  have  you 
been  all  my  life?" 

And  it  wasn't  more  than  a  day  or  two  later  that  he  began  to 
ask  her  for  dinner,  for  the  theater,  for — anything! 

Kent  Carrington — he  wasn't  like  the  Piggy  of  O.  Henry's 
story.  He  was  handsome,  he  looked  not  unlike  a  collar  ad. 
His  shiny  hair  was  sleeked  back  from  his  forehead,  his  eyes 
were  large  (even  if  they  were  set  a  trifle  too  close  together), 
his  mouth  was  finely  curved.  It  wasn't  his  fault  that  the  hair 
was  blond,  that  the  too-close  eyes  were  blue.  How  was  he  to 
have  guessed  the  brunette  preferences  of  a  girl  like  Gladys- 
guessed  them  in  advance? 

In  fact,  Kent  Carrington  had  more  than  a  trifle  of  it,  too. 
And  so  Gladys  allowed  herself,  just  a  shade  languidly,  to  accept 
his  third — or  was  it  his  fourth — dinner  invitation.  She  accepted 
it  with  no  feeling  of  premonition,  with  in  fact  a  slight  flutter  of 
satisfaction.  It  gave  her  an  edge  on  the  other  girls,  being  the 
chosen  one  of  the  new  boss. 

But  the  satisfaction  had  begun  to  turn  to  a  sort  of  dismay 
before  the  dinner  was  half  over.     [  please  turn  to  page  128  ] 


/„<? 


Hollywood's  Newest 

Romance 


By 

K  ii  t  h    />'  /'  (■  /•  y 


IT'S  Hollywood's  newest  romance, 
this  matter  of  Willi. im  Powell  and 
Carole  Lombard  and  seldom  in 
the  long  and  romantic  history  of 
the  film  colony  has  a  love  affair  had 
tlu-  folks  gaping  and  gabbling  aa  this 
one  has. 

ft's  been  on  for  a  year  now,  and 

it*s  still  fresh  conversational  material. 

If    nothing    happens    to    the    young 

folks,  the  HoUywoodenheads  invent 

something.  When  they  don't  spat, 
lover-like,  Hollywood  fixes  up  a  nice 
brawl  for  them  and  even  prints  it  in 
the  newspapers.  The  subject  is  that 
live! 

And  why  not?  Here  was  Hill 
Powell — "hard  to  get"  as  any  man 
in  town,  except,  probably,  that  king 
of  all  secretive  and  eyebrow  raising 
cusses,  Ronnie  Colman. 

I  might  add,  of  course,  that  neither 
of  the  lads  is  technically  a  bachelor. 
Colman  has  a  wife  vaguely  ensconced 
somewhere  in  England—the  Powells 
were  divorced  eighteen  months  ago. 
She  was  Eileen  Wilson,  a  non-pro- 
fessionaL 

After  his  divorce  the  girls  took 
heart.  bill  took  them  out,  dined 
them,  smiled  on  them  a  little  loftily, 
but  wore  his  well  known  suit  of  chain 
armor  over  his  heart  He  squired 
Kay  Francis  about  a  bit,  but  there 
is  no  public  record  to  the  effect  that 
the  magnificent  Kay  stepped  up  his 
cardiac  condition  to  any  degree.  And 
there  were  other  pretty  ladies,  too. 
Hill  gave  them  a  little  time,  a  lot 
of  his  courtly  attention,  plenty  of  his 
charming  conversation.  That  was 
all.     Not  a  sight  of  heart  and  hand. 

Seemingly  his  participation  in  the 
tennis  cabinet  Ronnie  Colman, 
Dick  Harthclmess,  Jack  Gilbert  and 
himself  —was  of  first  importance, 

TI I  EN  came  the  blast  that  knocked 
Hill    Howell's  heart   far   back   in 
his   thorax. 

Carole  Lombard,  blonde  and 
pretty,  stepped  from  a  New  York 
train.  She  had  been  playing  in  "Fast 
and  Loose"  in  Paramount's  New- 
York  studio,  and  now  she  was  back 
on  the  Western  lot.  Stepping  before 
the  major  executive  in  command, 
she  saluted  smartly  and  awaited 
orders. 

She  had  had  two  big,  heroic  ro- 
mances in  her  twenty-two  years. 
They  had  been  exciting  and  uplifting 
experiences.  Both  men  were  non-pro- 
fessionals, and  she  had  loved  both 
madly — at  different  times,  of  course. 


Wouldn't  you  like  to  know  what  Bill 
Powell  and  Carole  Lombard  are  saying  to 
each  other,  as  they  glide  around  the  floor 
at  Hollywood's  Mayfair  party?  Oblivious 
of  the  crowd,  there  are  just  two  people 
dancing — Bill  and  Carole! 


'I  knew  I  shouldn't  marry  the 
BeCOnd      the   one    1    loved    hit,"   she 

told  me.  "We  were  temperamentally 
unstated  1  knew  if  J  told  him 
goodbye  I'd  almost  die.  I  did.  Hut 
I  got  better  I  simply  must  laugh 
and  clown  through  life.  " 

The    point    is    that    when    Carole 
Lombard    faced   the   Paramount 
officer,  she   was  heart-whole,  f. 
free  and  very  gay. 

"I  want  you  to  meet  your  new 
leading  man.      This  is  Hill  Powell!" 

Hingo  just  like  that'  And  they 
were  in  love. 

A  WORRIED  publicity  man 
fretted  out  loud.  "Gee,  I  hope 
they  get  on.  Powell  doesn't  like 
many  of  his  leading  women." 
He  needn't  have  worried. 
That  night  Hill  Howell  took  Carole 
Lombard  to  dinner.  It  wasn't  just 
an  ordinary  dinner.  It  was  one  of 
those  events  roped  off  with  red  plush 
cords  in  the  memories  of  a  man's  life 

and  a  woman' 

(  her  the  /tors  d'oruvrrs  they  started 
matching   spirits.      They    talked    for 

seven  hours! 

What  do  men  and  women  talk 
about?    Oh     men  and  women. 

I  think  marriage  is  dangerous," 
Carole  told  Hill.  "It  spoil>  beautiful 
friendships  that  might  have  lasted 
for  years.  The  idea  of  two  people 
trying  to  possess  each  other  is  wrong. 
And  I  don't  think  the  tlare  of  love 
Your  mind  rather  than  your 
emotions  must  answer  for  the  success 
of  matrimony.  It  must  be  a  friend- 
ship— a  calm  companionship  which 
can  last  through  the  years." 

These  are  some  of  the  things 
Carole  Lombard  told  Hill  Powell 
during  seven  hours  of  intensive  talk. 

Seven  hours  of  conversation — and 
love  not  only  survived  but  flourished. 

Remember  this — Carole  Lombard 
did  not,  and  docs  not,  want  marriage. 
Not  even  to  Bill  Powell,  not  only 
one  of  the  catches  of  Hollywood,  but 
the  man  she  loves. 

SHE  wants  to  be  what  the  world 
calls  a  pal — a  witty,  intelligent 
companion.  At  least  that's  what 
she  says. 

And  Bill?  There's  no  doubt  in 
his  mind — or  in  the  minds  of  the 
friends  to  whom  he  talks. 

"She's  marvelous!  She's  the  one 
girl  for  me.  I  want  to  marry  her. 
I'm  going  to  marry  her." 

[  PLEASE   TURN   TO   PAGE    106  ] 


The  Prince  of  Wales  looking  for 
a  horse?  No,  it  is  our  bonnie 
prince  Charlie  in  the  outfit  he 
wore  while  boar  hunting  with 
the  Duke  of  Westminster.  He 
ate  off  the  mantel  for  two  days 
after  that  historic  event 


BLOXDE  Miriam  Hopkins  and  Brunette 
Claudette  Colbert  met  in  the  full  glare  of 
the  kliegs  and  gave  each  other  slap  for  slap 
at  Paramount's  Eastern  studio. 

It  was  a  scene  from  Chevalier's  "Smiling 
Lieutenant"  megaphoned  by  Herr  Lubitsch. 

Miriam's  part  was  more  outstanding,  more 
showy,  than  Claudette's. 

Miriam  did  not  attempt  to  hide  her  satis- 
faction. 

Came  the  day  for  the  face-slapping  scene — 
the  big  scene  of  the  picture  when  the  girls  fight 
over  Chevalier. 

The  cameras  cranked.  The  girls  went  to  it 
with  a  will. 

On  the  sidelines  Lubitsch  chuckled.  "  All  for 
the  good  of  the  picture,"  quoth  he.  But  as 
take  after  take  brought  bigger  and  better  slaps 
the  "crew"  were  a  little  worried.  By  the  time 
the  foreign  version  takes  were  reached,  things 
were  at  their  merriest. 

"Cut!"  commanded  Lubitsch.  He  went 
over  to  the  girls,  congratulated  them  on  their 
fine  work  and  induced  them  to  shake  hands 
and  smile  prettily  at  each  other. 

A  VISITOR  asked  little  Robert 
Coogan,  who  played  Sooky  in 
"Skippy,"  if  he  wanted  to  be  an 
actor. 

"Not  when  I  grow  up.    All  actors 
are  really  crazy,"  he  answered. 

OUR  old  friend  Pola  Negri  is  in  Hollywood 
on  a  very  sporting  chance.    She  ardently 
desires  to  make  good  in  talkies— and  whether 
or  not  she  makes  a  picture  for  RKO-Pathe  de- 
Art 


Cal\ork 


(Thn 


First  picture  of  Harold  and  Mildred  Lloyd,  and  young  Harold,  Jr., 
who  from  a  three-pound  incubator  baby  at  birth  has  grown  to  an 
eight-pounder  in  three  months.  "Bud,"  as  the  world's  most  pub- 
licized baby  is  known  to  his  dad,  took  his  first  experience  Defore 
the  camera  as  if  born  to  the  studio 


pends  on  the  success  of  a  test  she's  taking  on 
the  Coast. 

She  traveled  6,000  miles  to  take  that  test! 

I  called  on  Negri  in  New  York.  She  looks 
the  same — a  little  heavier,  perhaps,  and  cer- 
tainly a  little  tamer.  Since  we  saw  her  last, 
nearly  three  years  ago,  she's  been  divorced, 
and  from  an  artistic  point  of  view  pretty  much 
out  of  the  spotlight. 

The  Perilous  Pole  is  still  a  beautiful  woman 
— and  still,  in  her  heart,  the  queen  of  queens. 
The  death  of  her  popularity  in  American  pic- 
tures in  1928.  her  divorce — nothing  has  bowed 
that  regal  spirit. 

T)OLA'S  going  to  a  new  Hollywood — where 
*-  queens  are  out  of  fashion.  Now  it's  a  place 
where  a  lot  of  hard-working  men  and  women 
live.  She'll  work  hard,  because  she's  very  am- 
bitious. But  she  probably  won't  find  a  loose 
throne  around  the  place. 
Negri's  voice  is  rich  and  deep.    Of  course, 


there's  a  notable  accent,  but  accents  are  pretty 
much  the  fashion  in  pictures  now. 

Pola  talks  freely  enough  about  her  recent 
divorce  from  Serge  Mdivani.  And  about  love 
and  marriage  in  general. 

"Happy  marriage  must  begin  calmly,"  she 
says.  "Mental  stimulus,  not  passion,  should 
be  the  basis.  I  shall  choose  an  older,  under- 
standing man  next  time,  and  we  shall  live 
happily  ever  after." 

AMOVING  picture  producer  is 
quoted  as  saying: 
"All  this  talk  about  Marlene 
Dietrich  and  Greta  Garbo  being  alike 
is  wrong.  Garbo  is  photographed 
from  the  hips  up.  Dietrich  is  photo- 
graphed from  the  hips  down." 

HOWARD  HUGHES'  offer  to  Walter  Win- 
chell,  New  York  tabloid  gossip  writer,  to 
play  the  part  of  Wliiley,  the  reporter  with  a 


The  Monthly  Broadcast 

of 

Hollywood 
Goings-On 


The  be-sweatered  Nordic  in  the  center  is  the  closest  double  for 
Greta  Garbo  found  in  a  search  of  all  Sweden.  The  girls  on  either 
side  won  second  and  third  prizes.  Now,  you  Garbomaniacs,  be 
kind  to  them.  They  do  not  threaten  your  idol's  throne  nor  declare 
themselves  also  of  the  royal  blood 


nose  for  glamorous  living  as  well  as  news,  in 
"Queer  People."  is  no  longer  a  rumor.  It's  a 
definite  thing. 

It  carries  such  a  wad  of  money  with  it  that 
no  one  expects  Walter  to  refuse. 

As  Winchell's  newspaper  contract  calls  for  a 
daily  column,  his  Broadway  friends  are  chuck- 
ling over  the  prospect  of  the  columns  he  would 
write  during  the  seven  weeks  it  would  be  neces- 
sary for  him  to  be  in  Hollywood. 

As  Walter,  himself,  likes  to  be  known  as 
Little  Boy  Peep,  the  Great  Gabbo,  Big  Ears 
and  Vulture  Yinchell,  some  of  the  name*  irate 
victims  of  his  gossip  have  called  him.  Bolly- 
wood, as  one  man,  would  have  to  lock  itself  in 
during  his  stay. 

XTOW.  let's  get  down  to  the  love,  marriage 
■LX'and  divorce  news  of  the  month.  There's 
plenty  of  it. 

But  don't  fail  to  follow  this  department 
through  to  the  back  pages  or  you'll  miss  some- 


thing you  can  tell  at  the  next  meeting  of  the 
Ladies'  Aid  Society. 

AS  this  issue  goes  to  press,  the  matrimonial 
battle  of  Estelle  Taylor  and  Jack  Dempsey 
is  in  high — with  shot  and  shell  flying  from  both 
camps. 

Jack  has  established  a  residence  near  Reno, 
with  the  avowed  purpose  of  seeking  a  divorce 
under  the  generous  Nevada  la 

According  to  best  reports.  Estelle.  in  Holly- 
wood, has  been  closeted  with  her  attorneys 
drawing  up  a  suit  which  she  intends  tiling — 
charging  mental  cruelty. 

Estelle.  in  statements  to  the  press,  has  said 
that  she  didn't  care  for  the  ex-champ's  pals, 
and  that  he  was  terrifically  jealous,  and  that 
there  was  nothing  she  wanted  more  than 
babies. 

A  few  months  ago  she  was  quoted  as  saying, 
"Babies — never!'' 

Jack,  in  the  very  little  talking  he  has  done, 


Undaunted  by  her  old  box- 
office  toboggan,  Pola  is  back  in 
Hollywood  wooing  the  micro- 
phone for  a  contract.  She's  off 
passionate  love  forever,  she 
says.  Ah  me,  Pola,  how  can 
love  live  without  you? 


has  hinted  that  Estclle's  insistence  on  a  film 
career,  to  the  exclusion  of  downright  domes- 
ticity, has  caused  him  great  tribulation. 

AND  as  matters  now  stand,  both  are  suing. 
If  Estelle  wins,  it  means  she  will  get  quite 
a  share  of  Jack's  hard-earned  fortune. 

Rumors  that  all  was  not  well  at  the  Dempsey 
place  have  been  common  for  several  years.  In 
the  spring  of  1929.  for  instance,  the  sure-thing 
gamblers  of  Hollywood  were  willing  to  wager 
almost  anything  that  the  marriage  would  not 
last  through  the  year. 

Now  the  long,  sad  story  is  out.  with  its 
charges  and  counter-charges,  and  another  mar- 
riage is  over. 

PAULINE  STARKE  and  her  husband.  Jack 
White,  producer  of  comedies,  are  on  the  outs 
and  bound  for  the  divorce  courts.  Recently 
Jack  sent  word  to  Pauline  that  if  she  ir 
on  demanding  one-half  of  his  worldly  posses- 
sions, according  to  the  California  community 
property  law,  he'd  start  saying  things  himself. 

THE  "lowdown"'  on  Olive  Borden's  recent 
elopement  with  Theodore  Spector.  31-year- 
old  Paterson,  N.  J  .  stock  broker,  is  an  inter- 
esting tid-bit.  Olive,  it  seems,  was  one  of  the 
guests  that  Ricardo  Salecedo,  Latin  play- 
wright, was  entertaining  at  a  farewell  party  for 
Anna  May  Wong  in  a  smart  Fifth  Avenue 
Hotel. 

The  phone  rang  and  a  voice  asked  for  Olive, 
who.  upon  answering  it.  relayed  the  message 
that  her  mother  was  very  ill  and  she  would 
have  to  leave  immediately. 


Tune    in,    Folks,    on    Cal    York' 


Oh  girls,  look  what's  happened 
to  that  nice  Lew  Ayres !  Horrid 
black  eye,  n'everything.  Mr. 
Ayres  goes  plumb  to  the  dogs 
in  Universal's  "Iron  Man"  in 
which  he  plays  the  role  of  a 
roistering  prize  fighter 


Her  ill  mother  was  the  enterprising  bride- 
groom himself,  who  was  waiting  downstairs  in 
his  car.  The  guests,  who  included  Ruth  Ro- 
land, Claire  Windsor,  Betty  Blythe,  Mrs. 
Frank  Kiernan,  Mrs.  Kenneth  Harlan,  and 
Mary  Lawlor,  discovered  that  in  the  news- 
papers the  next  day. 

WE  hate  to  admit  it,  but  old  Cal,  proud  of 
his  ability  to  sniff  orange  blossoms  months 
away,  must  be  slowing  up. 

When  we  called  on  Mary  Nolan  recently  a 
bright-faced  young  man  opened  the  door  for 
us,  took  our  hat  and  stick,  and  respectfully 
showed  us  to  a  chair. 

A  refreshing  thing  to  see  such  a  polite  lad  in 
these  times,  we  thought,  and  immediately  for- 
got him  as  the  exotic  Mary  entered  and  we 
began  talking  over  rough  times  in  Hollywood. 

A  couple  of  days  later  Mary  took  the  bright- 
faced  young  man  down  town  and  married  him. 
He's  Wallace  T.  Macrery,  Jr. — and  23  years 
old  if  he's  a  day. 

MARCH  31.    The  eleventh  wedding  anni- 
versary of   Mary   Pickford  and   Douglas 
Fairbanks.     And  they  celebrate  it  a  world 

no 


Not  much  privacy  to  those  soulful  waltzes  in  the  movies,  is  there?  This 
is  how  they  follow  a  dancing  couple  with  the  camera — a  low-wheeled 
platform  is  hitched  to  the  camera  truck.  The  beaming  gent  is  Gary 
Cooper — the  sad-faced  partner,  Sylvia  Sidney.  A  scene  from  Par- 
amount's  "City  Streets."    Perhaps  Gary  stepped  on  her  toe 


apart — Doug  shooting  tigers  in  the  Orient; 
Mary  dancing  with  Johnny  Mack  Brown  and 
other  lads  at  the  Mayfair. 

But  all  the  same,  when  Doug  shot  a  panther 
in  India,  he  forthwith  announced  he'd  bring 
the  skin  home  to  Mary,  for  a  coat. 

PHOTOPLAY'S  story  about  Mary  Pickford, 
in  last  month's  issue,  started  the  newspaper 
reporters  running  to  "Pickfair." 

Her  statement  that  "  there  might  be  a  sepa- 
ration "  set  the  news  agency  telegraphs  clicking 
like  mad. 

Hollywood  gossip  has  persistently  linked 
the  name  of  Douglas  with  that  of  Lady  Mount- 
batten. 

It  is  reported  that  her  ladyship,  now  in  Holly- 
wood, is  bound  for  Mexico  and  the  Mexican 
divorce  mills. 

Yet  Mary  and  Lady  Mountbatten  seem  the 
best  of  friends,  and  are  seen  places  together. 

WE  understand  that  the  Marquis 
de  la  Falaise  and  Constance 
Bennett  have  definitely  parted  ways. 
Yes,  you've  read  it  before  and  it's 
still  true. 
Connie  likes  Joel  McCrea. 
And  we've  a  hunch  with  some 
pretty  strong  facts  to  back  it  that 
Gloria  likes  the  Marquis — yet. 

TTIE  Farrells — Charles  and  Virginia  Valli — 
*■  got  back  from  their  ten-week  honeymoon 
happy  and  tilled  to  the  brim  with  sightseeing — 
and  wild  to  get  back  to  Hollywood  and  work. 

They  spent  several  happy  weeks  in  Italy — 
just  rambling. 

Then  to  Paris,  where  Virginia  did  some 
shopping,  though  she  insisted  she  could  do 
better  in  New  York  stores! 

It  was  Charlie's  turn  in  London.  Never  one 
to  go  in  much  for  clothes,  Farrell  went  on  a 
regular  suit-buying  jag  in  the  British  capital. 
No  less  than  ten  new  suits  came  back  in 
Charlie's  luggage,  including  a  new  tail  coat 
and  two  dinner  jackets. 


It  will  be  "  Charlie,  The  Well  Dressed  Man," 
in  Hollywood  from  now  on! 

CHARLIE  and  Virginia  sent  this 
message  via  postcards  from  their 
honeymoon  in  Europe: 

"Having  a  grand  time — glad  you're 
not  here." 

THEY  tell  us  that  Janet  Gaynor  had  a  good 
cry  when  she  learned  Charlie  Farrell  was 
actually  married. 

Poor  little  Janet,  with  her  personality  and 
acting  ability  and  her  zodiac  sign  which  fore- 
tells unhappiness  in  love  matters! 

JOEL  McCREA  is  Hollywood's  latest  Beau 
JBrummell.  You  should  just  hear  the  ladies 
rave  about  him. 

He  is  beauing  Constance  Bennett  to  open- 
ings, and  the  Marquis  is  not  always  among 
those  present,  either. 

Yet  he  admits  his  ideal  is  Corinne  Griffith — 
and  he  wishes  there  was  another  Corinne  in 
Hollywood  who  wasn't  married! 

HEIGHT  of  Something-Or-Other : 
Buddy  Rogers  and  Anita  Page 
dancing  together  at  the  Mayfair. 

HELEN  TWELVETREES  ran  into  a  little 
legal  trouble  lately.  She  divorced  Mr. 
Twelvetrees  and  married  Mr.  Woody,  but  she 
did  it  a  few  days  before  her  divorce  became 
legal  and  now  they'll  have  to  wait  and  do  it  all 
over  again.  Her  husband  is  a  dead  ringer  (in 
his  photographs  at  least)  for  Maurice  Cheva- 
lier. 

LILLIAN  ROTH'S  marriage  came  as  a  great 
surprise  to  the  amusement  world. 
Only  two  months  before  the  happy  event, 
Lillian's  childhood  sweetheart  died  in  New 
York,  and  she  was  reported  heart-broken  and 
in  a  state  of  collapse.  Then,  while  playing  in 
vaudeville  in  Atlanta,  she  married  a  Pitts- 
burgh boy  named  William  C.  Scott. 


Hollywood    Statio  n  —  N-E-W-S 


Close-up  of  a  charming  little  lady  staging  a  big  come-back.  Even 
though  Renee  Adoree  is  still  confined  to  a  sanitarium  in  Arizona,  this 
smiling  picture  will  reassure  her  many  friends  that  she  is  really  on 
the  road  to  complete  recovery  this  time.  Good  luck,  Renee,  we  are 
waiting  to  welcome  you  back 


Lillian  played  in  Paramount  talkies  for  over 
.1  year. 

Her  biggesl  role  was  HuguetU  in  "The  \ 
abend  kin:;." 

HERE'S  the  way  in-laws  are  fixed 
up  in  Hollywood.  Wally  Beery 
and  Herbert  Somborn  are  great 
friends. 

Somborn  calls  Beery  "brother- 
in-law."  They  were  —  at  different 
times — the  husbands  of  Gloria 
Swan  son. 

HOLLYWOOD  was  only  mildly  interested 
at  the  divorce-court  woes  of  Jack  Ludcn 
and  his  wife.  Luden  sued  his  wife,  Elizabeth, 
for  divorce,  charging  that  she  was  happy  only 
when  the  house  was  full  of  dizzy  guests  crook- 
ing their  elbows  at  the  Ludcn  bar. 

Jack  also  charged  that  many  of  the  bibulous 
boy  friends  not  only  pot  plastered  on  his 
liquor  but  insisted  on  enlisting  the  aid  of  his 
pretty  spouse  in  enthusiastic  petting  parties. 

Jack  didn't  like  this,  he  says,  and  suggested 
they  spend  a  quiet  evening  alone  with  a  good 
book,  or  something. 

Then,  according  to  Luden,  "She  threw  a 
soup  bone  at  me  and  laid  down  a  barrage  of 
ash  trays."    Home,  Sweet  Home! 

Jack  was  graduated  from  the  Paramount 
School,  in  1925. 

He  went  to  Hollywood,  but  soon  dropped 
out  of  the  glare,  never  clicking. 

Hollywood  can't  be  annoyed.  Those  things 
don't  often  happen  to  the  hard-working  and 
hence,  successful! 

ON  Friday  night  Lew  Ayres  told  a 
friend  he  and  Lola  Lane  had  split 
— 'definitely  and  forever.  On  the 
following  Wednesday,  he  asked  an- 
other friend  to  play  tennis  with  him 
and  Lola. 

That  love  affair  has  the  ear-marks 
of  going  on  the  rocks,  but  ear-marks 
are  not  always  true  indicators. 


WI  [TON  a  few  weeks  Jeanette  Mac- 
Donald  will  be  definitely  retired  from  cir- 
culation as  the  bride  of  Robert  Ritchie,  her 
business  manager. 

It's  been  on  three  years — this  romance  of 
Jeanette  and  Bob. 

He's  a  big,  good-looking  fellow — and  will  be 
envied  by  thousands  of  admiring  young  men 
all  over  the  Republic. 

Jeanette  has  definitely  announced  the  wed- 
ding for  June. 

And  "The  Love  Parade"  now  turns  into 
"The  Bridal  Parade"  for  the  blonde  singing 
star!    Happy  days! 

WHEN  Lilyan  Tashman  signed 
her  new  contract  with  Para- 
mount, husband  Edmund  Lowe's 
comment  was:  "Just  another  excuse 
to  postpone  a  blessed  event  in  our 
family !" 

HOLLYWOOD  and,  I  imagine,  the  rest  of 
the  world  as  well,  were  all  hot  and  bothered 
when  a  radio  announcer  declared  over  the  air, 
that  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  was  dead. 

We  haven't  had  anything  like  that  for  a  long 
time. 

Remember  when  you  were  always  hear- 
ing that  Theda  Bara  was  dead  and  that  girl 
you  were  seeing  was  a  double?  Then  that 
Gloria  Swanson  died  in  Paris  a  few  years  ago? 

In  the  recent  excitement  a  reporter  on  a  Los 
Angeles  paper  got  the  First  National  publicity 
department  on  the  phone. 

"Is  it  true  that  Doug  Jr.,  has  been  killed?" 
he  demanded. 

"  No,"  they  said,  "  he's  alive  as  ever  and  he's 
now  out  on  the  back  lot'playing  tennis." 

"Well,  I've  got  to  get  a  story.  Isn't  some- 
body dead  out  there?" 

A  CERTAIN  theater  carries  this 
legend    on    its   marquee,    "The 
last  word  in  the  talkies." 

Some   folks  wish  that  advertise- 
ment were  true. 


And  here,  dear  readers,  is  a 
French  nobleman  you  will  see 
on  the  screen  in  "Cheri  Bibi." 
It's  our  old  friend  Jack  Gilbert 
behind  that  beard  and  monocle. 
Come  on,  Jack,  show  up  some 
of  these  new  stage  chaps 


MLLE.  FIFI  DORS  AY  (Canada)  thinks 
she  is  seriously  in  love  with  Terry  Kay.  a 
stage  veteran  who  has  just  come  to  the  silver 
screen. 

"How  I  wish,"  Fill  is  quoted  as  saying  re- 
cently, "how   I   wish   that   I   had  someone   to 
show  me  the  ropes  when  I  came  to  Hollywood. 
I  was  a  wild  girl  then,  but  that  is  all  over  now." 
Isn't  Fili  coy? 

WELL,  Cecil  Dc  Mille  is  now  like  the 
movies  themselves,  as  cynics  sec  them. 

That  is.  he  has  a  plot! 

De  Mille,  making  a  talkie  version  of  "The 
Squaw  Man,"  famous  old  time  play,  says  it's 
his  favorite  piece.  He  made  silent  films  of  the 
story  in  1913  and  1918,  his  present  thus  being 
the  third. 

Furthermore,  he  says  he's  so  devoted  to  the 
story  that  he  wants  to  make  it  even.-  ten  years, 
and  have  his  heirs  and  assigns  continue  the 
tradition. 

Heigho  and  lackaday! 

The  only  consolation  is  that  some  day  we'll 
be  too  old  to  either  see  or  hear  "The  Squaw 
Man!" 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  76  ] 


"But,  Imogene  darling,"  pled  I, 
"the  editor  is  waiting  .  .  .  ." 
"Let  the  old  goof  wait,"  she 
said,  disrespectfully.  "Here's 
mud  in  your  eye,  Bogie  darling" 


AW 


riter  s 


Alibi 


1 


Dear  Editor: 

THIS  is  to  tell  you  that  the  story  on  Hollywood  beauty  shops 
is  out — capital  O-U-T  in  twenty-four  point  italics — as  far 
as  I'm  concerned.  It  was  a  bum  idea  in  the  first  place,  even 
if  it  was  my  own. 

Maybe  you've  forgotten  about  it.  Well,  I  haven't.  I  never 
will.    It  got  me  into  an  awful  jam. 

Just  to  refresh  your  memory — we  were  sitting  in  your  room 
at  the  Ambassador  the  last  time  you  were  here,  quaffing,  as  I 
recall,  a  bottle  of  ginger  beer.  At  least,  we  pretended  it  was 
ginger  beer.  I  mentioned,  apropos  of  something  else,  I  knew  a 
girl  named  Imogene  Fitzfancy — a  swell  dish,  too! — who  worked 
in  a  palace  of  pulchritude.  Whereupon  you  put  on  your 
glasses,  which  made  you  look  very  learned  indeed,  and  said: 
"Do  vou  suppose  vou  could  induce  this  Imogene  to  tell  all?" 

I  said:  "All  what?" 

You  said:  "All  she  knows." 

I  shuddered  convulsively  and  asked  you  what  you'd  do  with 
it  if  she  did.  You  said  you'd  print  it,  of  course.  I  said  not 
and  continue  to  send  the  magazine  through  the  mails.  You 
assumed  a  Hawkshaw  expression  and  exclaimed:  "Aha!  Then 
it's  just  as  bad  as  I  suspected!" 


Illustrated  by   Walter   Van    Arsdale 


I  said  to  myself:  "What  the  devil's  the  matter  with  this 
guy?"  but  to  you  I  said:  "It's  probably  worse.  What  do  you 
suspect?" 

"Well,  it's  this  way,"  you  said.  "Every  time  my  wife" — 
and  before  I  forget  it  I  wish  you'd  give  your  lovely  lady  my 
kindest  regards — "appears  with  a  new  manicure  or  shampoo  or 
marcel — the  tales  that  woman  brings  home  from  the  beauty 
shop  with  her!     Why  honest — I  can  hardly  believe  my  ears!" 

Whereupon  you  blushed — and  anything  that  can  make  you 
blush,  warrants  investigation. 

I  asked  what  you  wished  to  know  particularly.  You  leaned 
forward  like  a  Sax  Rohmer  hero  and  hissed:  "About  beauty 
shops — and  what  goes  on  within  their  curtained  walls." 

I  said  I  thought  it  was  a  swell  idea — which  I  really  did  at 
the  time — and  like  a  big  sap  said  I'd  ask  Imogene. 

"Neccssitas  mm  habet  legum" — which  is  Latin  and  means  a 
guy  will  do  almost  anything  for  money. 

Well,  I  went  about  the  thing  pretty  craftily.  You  see,  when 
a  man's  married  and  has  a  wife  and  starts  buzzing  around 
beauty  shoppes — Ha  ha!     I  should  be  telling  you,  Mr.  Quirk. 


Bogart  Rogers  falls  down   on   an  assign- 
ment to  write  an  article  about  Hollywood 
beauty  shops.    Just  to  teach  him  a  lesson, 
we  are  publishing  his  alibi 


I  kuos  you  understood.  Anyway,  I  went  up  one  evening  and 
bearded  this  cookie  in  bet  luxurious  den. 

Right  here  is  a  good  place  to  t *■  1 1  you  about  these  Hollywood 
beauty  shop  operators  and  their  luxurious  dens,  as  1  call  them. 
A  good  dandruff  &  ratcher  <>r  marcel  waver    or  even  a  cuticle 

pusher      in  a  Inst  i  las-,  shop  in  this  town  makes  a  lot  "I  dough. 

They're  booked  solid  tor  days  in  advance  and  the  tips  arc  big. 
They  can  afford  nice  automobiles  and  swell  clothes  and  even 
husbands,  some  of  them    and  pay  for  them  all  by  themselves. 

Isn't  that  fine!     [mogene  lives  in  a  beautiful  flat  and  tlaunts  her 

affluence  by  riding  to  work  in  a  taxicab. 
"Imogene."  tpioth  I,  "may  I  ask  a  few  questi 

She  said  she'd  tell  me  anything  hut  her  right  name. 

ISAM):  "Question  number  one  is — could  you  use  a  little 
drink?"  (let  the  idea,  Mr.  Quirk?  In  fact,  I  think  it  was 
you  who  advised  me  that  was  the  best  way  to  proceed. 

Like  a  flash  she  said  "\\ 

That  was  encouraging.  Obviously  she  had  nothing  to 
i  onceaL 

Well,  I  asked  her  the  same  question  several  times  more. 
When  she  began  to  get  hoarse  from  saying  "yes"  I  switched  to — 

"Imogene,  how  's  for  telling  papa  the  genealogy  and  history  of 
the  town's  beauty  shops  and  the  beauty  secrets  of  the  Holly- 
wood patooties?" 

"Why  the  rush?"  she  asked.  "Can't  a  girl  get  a  little  drink 
around  this  joint?" 

"Hut   Imogene  darling,"  pled  I,  "the  editor  is  waiting — " 

"Let  the  old  goof  wait,"  she  said  disrespectfully.  "Here's 
mud  in  your  eye.  Bogie  darling.  He's  waited  for  better  stories 
than  you'll  ever  write" — which  is  probably  true,  Mr.  Quirk, 
probably  true — "and  besides,  judging  from  his  picture  on  the 
editorial  page,  I'll  bet  he's  the  kind  of  an  egg  who  would  insist 


on  waiting  if  he  knew  a  | r  gil  ing  of  thirst.     He  has 

such  a  s\  inpatheti. 

About   three  drinks  later  she  Started  to  talk.      If  this  <! 
make  sense,  don't  worry  about  it,  Mr.  Quirk.     V*OU  aren't  going 
to  print  it  anyway  and  just  about  the  time  Imogene  siarli  d  to 
talk    I    discovered,    to   my    horror,    I    was   fried   as   a    goal.      I 

haven't  been  quite  the  same  tint 

As  I  remember,  she  said  Sadye  .Nathan's  was  the  first  Holly- 
wood beauty  shop  to  really  get  a  big  play  from  the  charming 
creatures  of  the  films.  Her  husband  Sadye's  and  not  Imo- 
gene's  |  Imogene  had  a  husband  but  I  think  she  talked  him  to 
death)  was  cutting  the  hair.  Sadye's  shop  became  a  fad. 
Business  was  swell.  Then  along  came  Jim.  I'd  better  quote 
Imogene. 

"Sadye  needed  another  barber,"  she  said  from  behind  her 
glass.    "She  put  an  ad  in  the  paper  and  what  do  you  think/" 

I  beat  her  to  it,  Mr.  Quirk.  I  said  I  thought  we  needed 
another  drink.  \ow  another  drink  was  the  last  thing  in  the 
world  I  needed  at 
that  moment,  Mr. 
Quirk,  but  how  was 
I  to  tell?  You  know 
how    ///(//    is. 

So  we  had  two 
drinks  and  Imogene 
said:  [  PLEASE  tikn' 

to  PAGE  126  ] 


Imogene  says  beauty  shop  attend- 
ants never  repeat  any  scandal  they 
hear  except  to  men,  women  and 
children  between  the  ages  of  seven 
and  seventy-nine 


THE   NATIONAL   GUIDE   TO   MOTION    PICTURES 


* 


THE  SECRET  SIX—M-G-M 


NO,  gangster  pictures  are  not  dead — not  as  long  as  they 
produce  thrillers  like  this!  A  sequel  to  "The  Big 
House,"  it  is  not  as  gruesome  and  has  more  humor.  And,  of 
course,  not  as  new  and  unusual. 

If  good  citizens  combine  secretly  and  work  as  energetically 
to  destroy  gangsters  and  crime  as  gangsters  work  to  promote 
themselves  and  their  work,  law  and  order  will  win — that's 
the  theme.  Bootlegging,  subsidizing  of  public  officials  and 
gun  play  are  the  crimes.  You  will  see  exactly  how  liquor  is 
made;  you  will  witness  the  most  thrilling  gangster  chase  ever 
pictured.  Beautifully  produced  and  directed  by  George  Hill 
(assisted  by  Writer  Frances  Marion),  the  cast  is  splendid, 
including  Wallace  Beery,  Lewis  Stone,  Clark  Gable  (watch 
this  newcomer),  Johnny  Mack  Brown  and  Jean  Harlow. 


* 


QUICK  MILLIONS— Fox 


IF  you  like  gangster  pictures,  you'll  like  this  one  for  its 
completely  novel  treatment.  The  film  is  as  cold-blooded 
as  the  gangsters  who  are  characterized,  and  this  effect  is 
gained  by  the  remarkable  use  of  apparently  disjointed 
scenes  that  contrive  to  keep  the  thread  of  the  story  and  your 
interest  at  the  same  time.  It's  a  man's  picture  and  is  utterly 
lacking  in  wild  histrionics. 

Spencer  Tracy  is  head-man,  playing  an  erstwhile  truck 
driver  who  becomes — sure,  they  always  do! — leader  of  the 
racketeers.  Although  he  tries  to  crash  society,  he  remains  a 
hoodlum  and  pays  the  penal ty.  He  does  his  job  perfectly. 
Sally  Eilers  gets  first-lady  honors,  for  Marguerite  Churchill 
hasn't  much  to  do.  Recommended  because  it  is  the  highest 
type,  directorially  and  technically,  of  this  breed  of  film. 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

(nix),  u.  5.  *at.  orr.t      tf 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


* 


SEED— Universal 


THIS  picture  should  delight  everyone — fans  and  pro- 
ducers alike. 

It  follows  none  of  the  formulas  of  present-day  pictures;  it 
has  nothing  sensational  to  recommend  it;  it  is  wholly  with- 
out obvious  sex  appeal;  it  offers  no  preachment,  yet  it  is  one 
of  the  finest  pictures  turned  out  this  year.  Charles  Norris 
will  certainly  rejoice  that  the  lesson  in  his  book  is  presented 
so  forcefully  and  yet  with  such  delicacy. 

A  writer  of  great  promise  marries  early,  quickly  has  rive 
children,  finds  himself  weighted  down  with  family  responsi- 
bility, and  is  forced  to  abandon  his  writing. 

A  former  sweetheart  returns,  as  a  member  of  his  firm,  and 
she  immediately  sets  about  to  restore  his  aspirations  to 
write.  His  wife  has  only  time  for  the  children  and  her 
household  duties.    You  foresee  the  inevitable  triangle. 

Lois  Wilson,  as  the  wife,  has  her  first  good  opportunity  in 
months.  She  gives  a  beautiful,  sympathetic  performance. 
Genevieve  Tobin,  as  the  former  sweetheart,  is  lovely  and 
justifies  all  predictions  made  for  her,  but  the  big  surprise  is 
John  Boles,  who  doesn't  sing  but  who  walks  away  with  a 
most  difficult  role.    The  children  are  all  natural  and  lovable. 

Director  John  Stahl  deserves  much  credit  for  this  excellent 
picture.    If  you  miss  it,  you  won't  forgive  yourself. 


SAVES    VOIR    PICT  IRK    TIMK    AM)    MONEY 


Tin-  Best  Picture*  of  tin-  Month 


SEED 

I  111     s|i   Kl   I    MX 
1   \M1 


Mil     M  \l   II  s|     I    \l<  (  i.\ 

Ql  [I  K  Mill  IONS 

<  uv  stre]  rs 


The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 

John  Boles  in  "Seed" 

1 1  is  \\  ilsnn  in  "Seed" 

Ricudo  Corta  In  "The  Maltese  Falcon" 

Wallace  Bccry  in  "The  Secret  Six" 

Speocei  Tr.uy  iii  "Quick  Milli 

I )orii  Ki  d ■. on  in  " Fame" 

Sylvia  Sidney  in  "City  Streets" 

Gary  Cooper  in  "Ciry  Streets" 

John  Barrymore  in  "Svengali" 

Ramon  Nov.irro  in  "Daybreak" 

John  Gilbert  in  "Cheri  Bibi" 

Jo.ui  (  rawford  in  "(  omplete  Surrender" 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  reviewed  will  be  found  on  page  149 


-to 


THE  MALTESE  FALCON— Warners 


ARE  you  one  of  those  who  delight  in  a  fast-moving 
gripping  mystery  yarn?  Does  your  spine  tingle  in 
response  to  the  clever  machinations  of  the  screen  detective? 

Then  this  picture  is  your  dish,  and  you'll  love  it.  See  if 
you  can  untangle  the  mystery  before  the  last  reel.  It's  a 
great  game. 

Ostensibly,  this  is  a  starring  picture  for  Bebe  Daniels,  but 
her  part  isn't  one,  two,  four,  compared  to  that  handed  Mr. 
Ricardo  Cortez,  the  sleek  young  gentleman  who  is  now  doing 
the  best  screen  work  of  his  career.  What  a  performance 
Cortez  gives  in  this  picture,  playing  the  demon  detective 
who  is  also  a  first-rate  Don  Juan. 

The  story,  made  from  the  well-known  novel  of  the  same 
name,  concerns  the  desire  of  several  people  to  possess  a 
jewel-encrusted  statuette  of  an  enameled  falcon,  worth 
fabulous  sums.     Cortez  is  the  lad  who  turns  the  trick. 

Bebe  does  excellent  work  in  a  part  that  doesn't  give  her 
nearly  enough  elbow-room.  Cortez.  as  we've  said,  is  thor- 
oughly fine,  and  good  helping  performances  are  given  by 
Una  Merkel,  Dudley  Digges  and  Otto  Matiesen. 

This  is  as  fine  a  piece  of  film  mystery — with  chills  and 
thrills — as  the  screens  have  held  in  some  months.  You'll  like 
it,  you  mystery  fans! 


£ 


/    Wfl       I  itM   \ational 


E\  I.RY  once  in  a  while  there  happens  along  a  picture  m 
splendidly  played   and  directed  that   it   Stands  out   dis- 
tiiu  lively  from  the  ruck.    Such  a  one  is  "  Fame." 

It's  an  unspectacular  story  of  what  happens  to  the  hopes 
and  dreams  of  people  people  like  "you  and  me"  when 
those  hopes  and  dreams  collide  with  worldly  needs.  There 
arc  no  sensational  climaxes,  no  "big"  scenes.  Instead,  there 
is  a  story  so  beautifully  and  humanly  told  that  it  will  hold 
your  rapt  attention  throughout.  Director  Robert  Milton 
h  is  instilled  into  this  picture  that  same  quality  that  made 
"  Holiday"  a  grand  job.  And  Doris  Kenyon.  in  the  leading 
role,  proves  a  right  to  top  ranking  among  today's  screen 
players.  A  less  capable  one  might  easily  have  overacted  the 
role  to  death.    The  rest  of  the  cast  is  nearly  perfect. 


tr 


CITY  STREETS— Paramount 


SEVERAL  things  set  this  timely,  fast-moving  gang  melo- 
drama apart  from  the  general  run  of  such  pictu 

First,  it  introduces  to  Paramount  audiences  a  grand  little 
actress  named  Sylvia  Sidney,  a  product  of  the  Broadway 
stage.  She  was  rushed  into  the  feminine  lead  of  this  picture 
when  Clara  Bow  was  taken  out  to  rest  after  the  De  Yoe  trial, 
and  Sylvia  justifies  the  company's  faith  in  her.  Gary- 
Cooper,  t  a  first-rate  job  as  an  unsuspecting  youth 
caught  in  the  activities  of  a  gang  of  beer-runners.  It's  a 
thriller  that  rings  true. 

The  supporting  cast — including  Paul  Lukas,  Wynne 
Gibson  and  William  Boyd — is  great,  and  there  isn't  a  dull 
minute  in  the  picture.  Chalk  up  a  hit  for  Director  Rouben 
Mamoulian. 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List! 


SVENGALI- 
Warners 


DAYBREAK— 
M-G-M 


JOHN  B  ARRYMORE  is  the  perfect  Svcngali.  He  might  have 
stepped  from  the  pages  of  Du  Maimer's  "Trilby."  But  there 
are  many  faults  in  the  picture  itself.  With  the  exception  of  the 
superb  Barrymore,  the  Andree  Lafayette  silent  film  was  better. 
Little  Marian  Marsh  photographs  much  too  young  to  be  con- 
vincing. Much  of  the  Latin  Quarter  charm  has  been  sacrificed 
to  hypnotic  gruesomeness.    Not  for  children! 


RAMON  NOYARRO,  as  a  blithe,  but  slightly  stupid 
student  prince,  seduces  a  girl  and  learns  too  late  that  he 
loves  her.  An  old  story,  this  rates  A-l  because  of  sensitive 
acting  and  dialogue.  It  moves  slowly,  but  this  very  fact  helps 
to  make  it  romantic  and  wistful.  And  the  ending  is  intelligent! 
Helen  Chandler  is  the  girl  you  never  forget — appealing,  charm- 
ing.    "  See  it! "  you'll  say  to  others. 


INDISCREET 

—  United 
Artists 


IRON  MAN- 
Universal 


IF  your  requirement  of  a  picture  is  entertainment — this  is  a 
good  picture.  There  are  only  two  songs  in  the  picture,  sung 
beautifully  by  Gloria  Swanson.  Not  quite  as  good  as  "The 
Trespasser,"  it  is  materially  better  than  "What  A  Widow!" 
There  is  comedy  good  for  many  laughs.  Ben  Lyon  is  delight- 
ful; Arthur  Lake  unusually  good.  Gloria  keeps  her  come-back 
lead.    Well  worth  vour  time. 


IF  Lew  Ayres'  name  drags  you  in  to  see  this,  you'll  be  dis- 
appointed, for  it  doesn't  seem  built  to  give  him  the  big 
moments.  Although  Lew  is  starred  the  picture  is  definitely 
thrown  in  Robert  Armstrong's  direction.  He  makes  the  most 
of  the  toss.  Lew  plays  a  prize-fighter  who  is  influenced  by  his 
bad,  bad  wife  to  give  his  old  pals  the  go-by.  Sex  rears  its  ugly 
head  every  time  Jean  Harlow  appears. 


LADIES' 

MAN— 
Paramount 


CHERI BIBI— 
M-G-M 


YOU  wouldn't  believe  that  William  Powell  could  play  a 
gigolo  and  yet  retain  the  sympathy  of  his  audience.  Some- 
how he  does  just  that.  A  man  who  can't  help  attracting 
women.  The  women  in  this  case  are  Olive  Tell,  Carole 
Lombard,  and  Kay  Francis,  the  last  named  being  the  one  he 
really  loves.  Gilbert  Emery  gives  his  usual  fine  performance  as 
the  husband.    An  entertaining  picture. 


THE  most  entertaining  picture  Jack  Gilbert  has  done  in  ages. 
It's  straight  drama,  with  a  happy  ending  that  removes  any 
depressing  afterthought.  Jack  is  a  poor  magician,  in  love  with 
a  girl  far  above  him.  He  is  accused  of  murdering  the  girl's 
father  and  has  four  years  of  suffering  before  things  are  righted. 
Leila  Hyams  is  again  the  beautiful  girl.  Plenty  of  romance  and 
thrills  to  keep  you  happy  and  anxious. 


The    First    and    Best    Talkie    Reviews! 


the  prime 
t\i  \t) 
M  hi  net  i 


V£l  /  R    //// 
/  It    MS 

S//  M  I     Ml  I  I 
\l  <,-\l 


OR  they  might  have  titled  it  "  How  to  Become  a  K.u  keteer, 
with  Special  Attention  to  Hew  to  Sell  Beer,  How  to 
Swipe  Hooch,  How  to  Slug  Molls,  How  to  Get  Bumped  off." 
James  Cagney  and  Eddie  Woods  in  the  lead  roles  try  hard.  lint 

the  story's  Weak,  so  are  many  other  things,  so  it's  just  another 

not  so  hot  contribution  to  gang-lore  on  the  .screen.    Hasn't 
there  been  about  enough? 


SOME  beautiful  performances  save  this  talkie  remake  of  the 
>ilent  that  made  Anita  Stewart  famous.     Leslie  Howard,  for 

instance,  a<  hieves  real  heights  in  spots,  but  in  others,  he's  still 
too  camera  conscious.  Conchita  Montenegro  makes  an  inter- 
esting and  decidedly  supple  hipped  Polynesian  maiden.    It's 

lavi>hly  produced,  but  alter  all,  the  story's  old  enough  to  have 
known  better  than  go  talkie. 


BORN  TO 
LOVE— 

RKO-Putlu- 


DUDER.WCII 
Paramount 


THIS  plot  died  of  old  age  years  ago.  Now  they've  exhumed 
the  poor  thing,  and  without  so  much  as  dressing  it  in  fresh 
clothes,  they've  asked  Constance  Bennett  to  make  it  entertain- 
ing. She  does  her  best — but  this  wheeze  about  the  war  nurse, 
the  two  officers,  and  whose-baby-is-it  is  so  defunct  that  it'd 
take  a  greater  miracle-worker  than  Constance  to  make  it  live. 
They  can  do  better  than  this. 


JACK.  (>\K1K  was  never  better  than  in  this  madly  funny 
travesty  on  the  modernization  of  the  old  West.  How  a  group 
of  itinerant  actors  are  hired  to  pep  up  a  dude  ranch,  and  how  a 
gang  of  bank  robbers  from  the  city  complicate  things  make 
hilarious  fibs  fare.  Gene  l'allette  is  great,  while  gorgeous  June 
Collyer  is  so  lovely  it's  no  wonder  Oakie  falls  for.hcr!  A  picture 
to  make  you  forget  your  bank  has  crashed. 


PARTY 

HI  sli  \\D— 

First  Motional 


(  (iMPLETE 
SI  RRESDER 
M-G-M 


THEY'VE  got  Dorothy  Mackaill  and  James  Rennie  and 
Dorothy  Feterson  working  hard  on  this,  but  all  the  same, 
it's  just  another  picture,  and  you'll  probably  not  jump  up  and 
down  and  clap  hands  much  over  it.  It  tells  about  a  couple  of 
newly-weds.  Hubby's  work  requires  him  to  deal  with  pretty 
girls.  Wine  doesn't  like  it.  She  quits  him.  But  they're 
reconciled.    And  that's  it. 


JO  AX  CRAWFORD  is  emotionally  great  in  a  sordid  story  you 
probably  won't  like.  This  psychologically  sound  character,  a 
cabaret  dancer  who  turns  to  the  Salvation  Army  only  to  find 
she's  human  after  all,  is  not  the  Joan  of  "  Our  Blushing  Brides," 
but  she's  grand.  Guy  Kibbee,  the  only  comedy  relief,  is  perfect. 
Neil  Hamilton,  unsympathetic,  gives  an  excellent  performance. 
[additional  reviews  on  page  120] 


A  NITA  PAGE,  of  course.  Anita  is  not 
-^■making  the  lightning  streak  to  stardom 
on  the  M-G-M  lot  predicted  for  her.  But 
please,  Mr.  Mayer,  give  our  favorite  beach 
flower  a  good  big  chance.  We  promise  to 
go  to  your  movies  just  to  look  at  her 


Seymour  says — 

Plot  Your 
Stars/ 


NOW  that  we  are  all  being 
guided  bv  the  stars  for  the  latest 
twist  to  our  futures — why  not  also 
consult  the  stars  for  future  fashions? 
The  stars  I  would  suggest  to  guide 
your  fashion  destiny  are  no  farther 
away  than  the  silver  screen — you 
won't  need  a  telescope  to  see  them 
— only  a  discriminating  eye. 

What  is  new  for  Summer?  Look  to 
the  screen.  How  much  more  inter- 
esting it  is  to  note  that  white  is  a  big 
fashion  because  so  many  stars  sponsor 
it  than  to  merely  read  about  it.  And 
that  debate  about  pyjamas  for  all 
hours — dre  they  really  being  worn? 
Of  course  they  are.  Haven't  you  seen 
the  smartest  stars  on  the  screen  wear- 
ing them?  For  beach,  for  garden — 
for  tea,  for  dancing — you  are  as- 
sured it  is  a  good  fashion. 

I  have  chosen  this  month's  fashions 
for  that  vacation  wardrobe  of  yours 
— bon  voyage! 


Summer  Fashions  by  the 


A  HOY!  Did  you  ever  see  anything  jauntier  than  this  sea-faring 
'  *  garb  that__  chic  Lilyan  Tashman  wears  in  her  new  picture  "Up 
Pops  the  Devil"?  It's  the  wearable  sort  of  outfit  that  will  be  at  home  on 
a  cat  boat  or  a  yacht.  I  heartily  approve  the  way  she  wears  her  blue 
and  white  striped  sweater  over  the  white  flannel  trousers — especially 
when  she  ties  a  matching  sash  about  the  waist.  Even  the  sandals  are 
blue — true  to  the  sailor-Tike  note  of  it  all. 


Six    New    Fashi 


ons    in 


HAT  type  of  jew- 
elry is  suitable  for 
sports  costumes?  I  would 
say  that  Dorothy  Mackaill 
answers  that  query  with 
the  stunning  bracelet  and 
necklace  ensemble  she 
chooses  for  a  sporting 
mood  in  "Party  Husband. " 
Both  are  of  gold  designed 
in  a  scalloped  effect.  Their 
simplicity  makes  a  perfect 
foil  for  a  tweed-like  knit- 
ted sweater  in  brown  and 
tan.  The  beret  matches 
the  sweater — the  skirt  in 
tan  wool  crepe  is  smartly 
buttoned  down  the  front. 
Can't  you  visualize  it  on 
that  vacation  you  dre  tak- 


WHITE  is  the  big  thing  in  the  fashion  firmament 
this  Summer,  you  know.  You  can  wear  it 
alone — or  you  can  use  a  color  contrast  as  Bebe 
Daniels  has  done  here.  She  has  chosen  this  white 
tweed  suit  to  wear  in  a  scene  from  her  new  picture, 
"The  Maltese  Falcon."  I  would  vote  it  perfect — from 
her  black  and  white  crocheted  straw  turban  to  her 
white  pumps  trimmed  in  linen  to  match  her  bag.  The 
white  silk  crepe  blouse  is  belted  with  the  smartest 
belt  of  the  hour,  black  alligator  trimmed  with  ivory. 
Try  the  collar  of  your  blouse  over  the  jacket  like  hers — 
it's  very  flattering. 


\  /IVACIOUS  Lilian  Bond  has 
V  every  reason  to  flaunt  a  feather 
in  her  hat  when  she  can  pick 
such  a  smart  one.  I  would  recom- 
mend at  least  one  hat  of  this  type 
for  every  Summer  wardrobe.  The 
shiny  brown  straw  is  designed  with 
a  medium  brim  that  does  not  hide 
the  face.  The  pert  feathers  at  the 
back  lend  just  the  right  note  of 
contrast.  Smart  for  general  wear — 
very  smart  for  traveling.  And  note 
the  jaunty  tie  to  the  silk  striped 
Ascot  scarf. 


Leading    S 


ummer 


R 


oles 


A^ORE  pyjamas!  And  it  is  Lilyan  Tashman  who 
'  v  '  wears  them  again  in  "Up  Pops  the  Devil." 
This  time  they  are  for  teatime,  but  I  would  say 
you  could  wear  them  to  luncheon  or  even  a 
quiet  dinner  at  home.  Would  you  ever  guess  that 
all  that  circular  fullness  could  be  trousers?  The 
blouse  is  chartreuse  silk  echoing  one  of  the  colors 
of  the  huge  dots  in  the  trousers.  The  big  straw  hat 
is  a  topping  topper! 


IIS  hard  to  maintain  the  reputation  for  being 
the  best  dressed  person  anywhere — but 
Lilyan  Tashman's  consistently  smart  selections 
make  her  a  worthy  claimant  to  the  honor.  This 
boldly  printed  crepe  frock,  for  instance — simply 
charming  with  its  flared  peplum.  The  skirf  should 
be  ankle  length,  however.  And  the  very  newest 
evening  wrap  is  just  such  a  monk's  cape  wrapped 
casually  about  the  shoulders — in  green  velvet. 


/^ERTAINLY  little  Miss  Marsh  will  not  have 
^ —  to  wait  wistfully  for  very  long  in  such  a 
frock!  It  is  the  sort  of  lace  and  chiffon  con- 
coction that  breaks  up  the  stag  line — espe- 
cially when  worn  by  one  so  charming.  The  sash 
and  ruffled  neckline  are  just  what  they  should  be 
— but  the  skirt  should  be  shorter.  Good  taste 
is  shown  in  the  softly  waved  hair  so  simply 
knotted  at  the  nape  of  the  neck. 


SEYMOUR  SELECTS 

FASHIONS  FOR  A 

YOUNG  GIRL 


IF  YOU  are  one  of  those  busy  young  things 
who  is  planning  a  perfect  whirl  of  a  Summer 
holiday,  I  would  suggest  that  you  look  to 
pretty  Joan  Marsh  for  some  fashion  pointers. 
This  sports  outfit,  for  instance,  just  the  sort  of 
thing  you  should  have.  A  short  sleeved  jacket 
in  those  stripes  I  like  so  well,  tops  a  white 
sleeveless  frock.  As  you  can  see  in  the  smaller 
picture,  the  armholes  and  neck  of  the  dress  are 
bound  in  stripes.  The  matching  beret,  white 
socks,  and  low-heeled  oxfords  drz  absolutely 
right. 


At  the  left  is  the  Buddy 
Rogers     we     knew     a 

.It      t  V.  lilt  v-two, 

adored  by  the  flupi" 
At  the  right  is  the  new 
Charles  Rogers,  demo- 
ted from  electric  lights 
and  facing  a  fresh 
struggle  for  film  fame 


fcfc 


Am  I  An  Actor?" 


Stardom,    or 


AM   I   an  actor? 
Buddy    Rogers   wants 
to  know. 
As  a  boy  he  became 

"America's  Hoy  Friend."  Women 
of  all  aces  stormed  the  theaters 
where  his  pictures  were  showing 
or  where  he  made  personal  ap- 
ances,  tore  handkerchiefs 
from  his  pockets,  ripped  neckties 
from  his  neck,  tore  his  clothing — 
anything  for  a  souvenir  of  ".Ameri- 
ca's Boy  Friend." 

At  twenty-two  he  was  one  of  Paramount's  biggest  stars, 
owner  of  a  staggering  contract  and  riding  on  the  crest  of  a 
tumultuous  wave  of  public  affection. 

Like  every  other  boy  who  ever  lived,  though,  Buddy  Rogers 
grew  up,  and  the  man  who  tried  to  play  those  boy  roles  became 
suddenly  ludicrous.  Those  who  had  laughed  with  him,  turned 
to  laugh  at  him. 

e  of  the  Rover  boys"  was  a  bit  of  cutting  criticism  that 
stuck  to  him.  Overnight  he  lost  his  public — just  as  he  had 
gained  it. 

And  today,  no  longer  starred,  but  sharing  marquee  lights 
with  others.    Charles — no   longer    Buddy — Rogers    wants 
know,  "Am  I  an  actor?" 

With  all  the  appealing  earnestness  of  youth,  he  is  trying  to 
answer  the  question  for  himself.  He  wants  to  play  a  gangster, 
a  cowboy,  a  mechanic  in  grimy  over-alls — anything  that  will 
give  him  a  chance  to  act. 

He's  had  all  the  good  things  that  any  movie  star  could  ever 
ask  for:  fame,  money,  affection.  He  had  them  all  as  a  boy — 
and  lost  them. 

Now  he  wants  them  all  back  again — as  an  actor. 

It  gives  a  little  tug  to  the  heartstrings  to  hear  with  what 
pathetic  determination  he  asks  for  the  opportunity  to  act  his 
way  back  to  the  lofty  pinnacle  that  was  his 
as  just  a  sweet-faced  kid  with  a  gay  manner 
and  an  appealing  voice. 


Charles  Ex-Buddy  Rogers 
must  find  out  NOW, 
as  he  stands  at  the 
cross-roads    to    new 

o  b  1  i  v  i  o  n  ! 


By  Cal  York 


"I  didn't  ask  for  all  this  fame 
in  the  first  place."  he  says.  "It 
was  more  or  less  thrust  on  me. 
I've  never  had  to  battle  for  any- 
thing. I  went  to  college  and  was 
thrust  into  earning  forty  dollars 
a  week  in  an  orchestra  without 
even  trying.  A  friend  got  me  the 
chance  to  try  for  the  Paramount 
school.  I  was  chosen  without  even 
asking  for  the  opportunity. 

"I  played  the  lead  in  the  Para- 
mount picture,  'Fascinating 
Youth,'  without  any  effort  to  get  it.  They  put  me  under  con- 
tract. They  gave  me  'Wings.'  Mary  Pickford  chose  me  for 
'My  Best  Girl';  Ann  Nichols  for  'Abie's  Irish  Rose.'  A  year 
and  a  half  before  my  old  contract  was  up  they  offered  me  a  new- 
one.  When  I  went  on  personal  appearances  it  was  like  taking 
a  peppermint  stick  from  a  baby.     "And  now  this 

XT  was  a  slap  he  never  anticipated.  Like  the  tyro  at  the  race- 
track who  made  his  first  bet  and  won.  he  naively  asked:  How 
long  has  this  been  going  on?  In  just  the  same  manner  he 
thought  it  would  go  on  forever.  His  crime  was  in  not  realizing 
that  he  had  to  grow  up. 

But  now  that  he  has  grown  up  he's  taking  his  wallops  like  a 
man.  They've  hurt  and  he  remembers  them,  a  little  bitterly, 
perhaps,  because  he  couldn't  quite  understand  what  it  was  all 
about.  Lionized  one  day,  laughed  at  the  next,  he  still  can't 
get  over  sinh  devastating  cracks  as: 
Peter  Pan. 

Should  be  singing  in  a  choir. 

Should  go  away  to  the  mines  and  work  for  ten  years. 

They're  still  deeply  imbedded  in  his  memory,  but  he  wants 

to  stick  it  out.    He  could  go  on  the  stage  as  an  orchestra  leader, 

he   says,   and,   counting   income    from  radio,  vaudeville  and 

phonograph  records,  make  as  much  money 

as  he  is  making  in  pictures.    George  White, 

the   New  [  please  turn  to  tagi;  125  ] 

r,:> 


Looks  pretty  fit,  doesn't  he?  The  Lew  Cody  of 
today,  brought  back  to  life,  after  two  years  of 
critical  illness,  by  the  help  of  his  faithful  friends 
and  his  own  staunch  spirit.  Plenty  of  jobs,  thank 
you,  and  all  kinds  of  pep! 


THEY  don't  usually  come  back  in  Hollywood.  They 
either  climb  into  the  heavens  of  fame  and  shine  bril- 
liantly and  long,  or  they  make  the  climb,  nicker  a  bit 
and  die  out.    There  have  been  few  exceptions. 

Lew  Cody  is  one.  He  is  Hollywood's  man  who  actually 
came  back. 

He  left  the  screen  when  he  completed  his  M-G-M  contract 
in  "A  Single  Man."  He  was  away  from  it  for  two  years.  He 
returned  in  "What  a  Widow!"  with  Gloria  Swanson.  He  has 
since  made  seven  pictures  in  rapid  succession:  "Divorce  Among 
Friends";  "Dishonored"  (with  Marlene  Dietrich);  "Bevond 
Victory";  "Three  Bad  Men";  "Not  Exactly  Gentlemen"; 
"3  Girls  Lost"  and  "The  Registered  Woman." 

When  he  left  the  screen  he  was  making  $2,500  weekly. 
Today  he  receives  exactly  the  same  money. 

Two  years  ago  they  said  he  couldn't  possibly  live.  He 
couldn't  move  a  muscle.  His  valet  had  to  move  even  his 
fingers.  The  bed  clothes  were  tented  above  him  because  the 
touch  of  a  sheet  brought  such  torture  that  his  body  could  not 
bear  it.    Yet  he  lives! 

Recovered,  there  seemed  to  be  no  hope  for  him  on  the  screen. 
Friends  shook  their  heads.  Companies  shook  theirs,  in  the 
belief  that  the  world  had  forgotten.    Yet  he  lives  on  the  screen. 

How  did  it  happen? 

Cody  gives  the  credit  for  his  physical  recovery  to  his  friends; 
he  gives  the  credit  for  his  professional  recovery  to  Gloria 
Swanson.    But  the  credit  for  both  goes  to  Lew  Cody. 

Let's  take  a  look  at  the  man  as  he  was  before  he  was  taken 
ill. 

One  of  Hollywood's  best  fellows.    A  play  boy. 

"Let's  call  up  Lew  Cody  and  have  a  party!"  was  one  of 
Hollywood's  famous  lines.    Lew  lived  up  to  it. 

"It  never  entered  my  head  not  to!  'What  will  you  have — 
white  rock  or  ginger  ale?'  was  the  first  question  asked  me  in 
every  room  I  entered.    I  answered,  'white  rock.'  ' 

The    True    Story   of   Lew 

66 


They  Saved 

His  Life  With 


Laughter. 


By  Jeanne  North 


t 


His  gags  were  famous.  He  was  the  funniest  man  in  Holly- 
wood and  could  be  depended  upon  to  be  just  that  at  every 
social  gathering.     The  gatherings  were  many. 

When  he  went  to  New  York,  following  the  conclusion  of  his 
picture  contract  and  preparatory  to  sailing  for  Europe  and  a 
vaudeville  appearance  in  London,  the  good-fellow  story  was 
repeated. 

The  complete  collapse  I  have  described  came  quickly.  Lew 
Cody  was  on  his  back  from  neuritis. 

Quiet!  No  visitors.  No  excitement.  Complete  rest.  That 
was  what  the  doctors  ordered.  He  gave  in  at  first.  Gave  in 
until  he  knew  he  must  die  if  the  prescription  continued.  If  he 
must  die,  he  would  die  as  he  had  lived. 

"Send  'Bugs'  Baer  to  me,"  he  ordered. 

"Bugs"  Baer  came.  "Shall  I  read  you  tomorrow's  column 
or  ad  lib?"  he  inquired.  "They  have  given  me  ten  minutes. 
Take  your  choice." 

That  ten  minutes  began  the  return  trip  of  Lew  Cody. 

He  did  not  need  to  order  more  friends  to  be  sent  to  him. 
They  came  without  invitation  as  soon  as  they  learned  he  was 
receiving.  O.  O.  Mclntyre,  Walter  Catlett,  Leon  Errol,  Eddie 
Cantor,  Al  Jolson,  Paul  Whiteman,  a  magazine  editor  with  a 
sense  of  humor  who  said:  "I've  got  about  seventeen  grand  in 
the  bank.     It's  yours,  you  old  skinflint!" 

FRIENDS  whom  he  had  made  with  his  gift  of  telling  jokes 
now  brought  jokes  to  him.     And  Lew  joked  back  at  them. 

When  the  doctors  thought  him  too  weak  to  talk,  he  insisted 
on  kidding  with  the  boys  with  whom  he  had  always  kidded. 
When  nurses  thought  friends  should  read  to  him,  he  answered, 
"I  have  never  been  a  reading  fellow.  I  read  the  headlines  and 
surmise  the  rest!"  As  jolly  good  fellows  had  furnished  his 
mental  stimulus  while  he  was  well,  so  he  insisted  upon  the  same 
stimulus  while  he  was  ill. 

It  was  the  same  way  when  they  carried  him  back  to  the 
Coast.  His  bed  was  to  be  switched  from  the  New  York  train 
to  the  Palm  Springs  one  at  six-ten  in  the  morning.  Five 
minutes  for  switching.  Roscoe  Arbuckle  was  then  running  the 
"Plantation"  in  Culver  City. 

"He  was  up  every  morning  until  the  small  hours;  he  was 
always  tired  with  that  kind  of  job.  [  please  turn  to  page  142  ] 

Cody's    Great    Comeback 


She  Wants  to 
Thrill  Us  To 


z; 


ears. 


By  Marry  Lang 


t 


LOUISE  FAZENDA  has  probably  made  more  people 
laugh  with  her  dizzy  drolleries  than  any  other  woman 
on  the  screen.  And  yet  what  she  wants  most  to  do  is  to 
make  them  cry— she  wants  to  play  one  of  those  teary 
mother-sacrifices-herself-for-her-daughter  roles!  Funny,  these 
comickers — Chaplin  wants  to  play  Napoleon,  and  Fazenda 
this! 

For  twelve  years,  she's  been  buffooning  it  without  a  serious 
role.  As  this  is  written,  she*s  doing  the  tir>t  real  serious  bit  in 
her  career — one  of  the  war  women  in  "1'he  Mad  Parade." 
She's  so  darned  afraid  people  will  laugh  at  it  that  she  prays  a 
moment  before  going  into  her  scenes  before  the  camera — prays 
that  people  will  know  she's  being  serious  at  last,  and  that  they 
won't  guffaw 

When  she  was  a  kid,  Louise  had  two  pigtails  down  her  back. 
She's  still  got  them !  She  never  had  her  hair  bobbed.  And  once, 
in  the  Mack  Sennett  days,  she  had  her  pigtails  insured  for 
S10.(X)0.  Now,  because  her  long  hair  is  such  a  nuisance  to 
dress,  she  wears  a  wig  in  virtually  every  one  of  her  screen 
characterizations,  so  you're  probably  not  seeing  Fazenda's 
hair  at  all. 

Fazenda's  a  mighty  pretty  woman  when  she's  dressed  up. 
But  she's  very  sensitive  about  her  dark  skin.  It  is  a  heritage  of 
her  Portuguese  ancestry. 

'"I  wish."  she  confided  to  an  intimate  recently,  "that  some 
day,  just  once.  Hal  would  say  that  he  thinks  I'm  pretty." 
Hal  is  her  husband,  Hal  Wallis,  one  of  the  Warner  Bros. 
executives.  Hal  is  just  about  ninety-nine  per  cent  of  Louise's 
life.    The  other  one  per  cent  is  her  work  and  her  friends. 

She's  so  crazy  about  Hal  and  keeping  Hal's  love  that  she'll 
do  almost  anything  to  avoid  letting  him  see  her  in  one  of  her 
comedy  make-ups.  When  she  comes  home  from  the  studio 
wearing  one  of  the  goshawful  messes,  she  sneaks  in  by  a  side- 
door  and  takes  it  off  before  letting  him  see  her. 

But  the  other  day  she  played  a  part  as  a  cute  little  French 
maid.  She  looked  adorable.  And  she  took  particular  pains  to 
let  Hal  see  her. 

She's  a  domestic-hearted  little  soul.  If  she  couldn't  have 
both  her  home  and  her  career,  and  had  to  make  a  choice,  she'd 
instantly  jettison  the  career. 

"I'm  just  an  old-fashioned  wife  with  modern  ideas,"  she 


She's  a  beauty,  this  Louise  Fazenda — and  for 
eighteen  years  she's  been  a  rough  and  tumble 
comedienne  on  the  Hollywood  lots,  beginning  as 
one  of  the  earliest  custard  pie  targets  in  the  brave 
old  days  of  Sennett.    And  an  artist! 


explains.    "Like  an  old-fashioned  house  with  modern  plumbing 
— comfortable  but  convenient."     She  can  cook  like  nobody's 
business,  and  her  recipe  for  lemon  pie  is  one  of  Holly wo 
institutions. 

And  she  writes  poetry ! 

Besitles  cooking  and  writing  verse,  she  likes  to  plan  and  build 
and  sell  houses,  and  collect  antiques.  She  has  built  ami  sold 
quite  a  few  houses — and  she  bosses  the  job  herself,  hiring  the 
workmen  and  supervising  the  job.  She  even  goes  so  far  a 
make  them  tear  up  a  two-inch  cement  floor  when  she's  specified 
a  six.  The  house  she  and  her  husband  live  in  now  was  one  she 
designed  and  built  herself.  They  live  simply,  in  the  upper 
part  of  the  house,  which  is  a  duplex.  They've  only  one  maid, 
and  they  rent  the  lower  floor. 

IN  the  front  hall  is  a  lamp  from  a  synagogue  in  Budapest  — 
in  the  living  room  is  a  pistol  Buffalo  Bill  once  used.  Scattered 
all  over  are  all  sorts  of  curios  and  antiques,  particularly  early 
California  stuff.  And  in  the  cellar  is  the  greatest  collection  of 
fan  mail  in  Hollywood.    She  saves  all  her  fan  let) 

"The  first  ones  thrilled  me  so."  she  explains,  "that  I  couldn't 
bear  to  throw  them  away,  and  that  started  the  habit  of  keeping 
them  all."  Among  her  fan  mail  writers  she  has  many  steady 
correspondents — exchanging  letters  constantly. 

She  remembers  her  most  faithful  fans.  Last  Christmas,  she 
sent  thirty  of  them  each  a  hand-tooled  leather  brief  case,  with 
a  big  photograph  of  herself  enclosed. 

When  she  gets  fan  mail,  she  believes  she  can  tell  by  rubbing 
her  fingers  over  the  letters  which  of  them  she  wants  to  open 
and  read.    The  rest  she  files  in  her  cellar. 

She's  superstitious,  and  believes  in  astrology  and  numer- 
ology.   For  a  long  time,  because  she  believed  so  thoroughly  that 
the  stars  at  birth  control  a  person's  destiny,  she  was  afra: 
have  her  horoscope  read,  fearing  it  might  be  bad  news.     But, 
just  recently,  she  had  it  done.        [  please  turn  to  page  140  ] 


A     Comedienne     \Y  h  o '  d     Like     to     Play     Ophelia 


A  Very  Fowl  Affair 


Now  chickens, 
ducks  and 
turks  get  their 
place  in  the 
talkies 


The  Sheriff  of  "A  Fowl  Affair." 
He  can  draw  his  spurs  quicker 
than  you  can  say  Greta  Garbo 


The  tall  and  handsome  gentleman  at  the  right  is  Elmer. 
Imagine  his  embarrassment  when  Genevieve,  his  ever- 
loving  wife,  presents  him  with  a  family — all  web-footed! 
This  is  one  of  the  tragi-comic  moments  of  "A  Fowl  Affair," 
Educations  l's  all-quackie  comedy 


Did  you  ever  see  a  dowager  to  beat — or  even 

tie — this  one?    It's  the  turkey-lady  in  the  box 

seat  at  the  show.    She  is  just  ready  to  level 

her  lorgnette  at  the  girls  on  the  stage 


Ah-ha !  A  villainous  pick-up  on  the  streets 
of  Fowl-Town!  The  Fleet's  in,  and  Jack 
Ashore  is  making  a  mash  on  the  simple 
country  maiden.  Is  there  no  one  at  hand 
to  save  her  from  the  goggling  gob? 

68 


Success    hasn't    softened 
the  hard  knocks  that  wen 
Barbara   Stanwyck's  wel- 
come to  Hollywood 


bias  Hollywood's  Number 


BARBARA  STANWYCK  is  a  bitter 
woman  and  B  very  wise  one.  not  a 
temperamental  one,  as  Hollywood  would 
have  yon  believe. 
\  case  hardened  trouper,  as  weD  as  a  sensi- 
tive, capable  actress,  she  isn't  fooled  by  the 

homage    she    finds    awaiting    her    at    the    very 
height    of    her    success.      Having    broken    box- 
office  records  with  "Illicit,"  and  been  hailed  as  a  great  discovery 
in  "Ladies  of  Leisure."  she  hasn*t  forgotten  the  time  when  she- 
was  just  "that  girl  Frank  Fay  married." 

Now  that  she  is  a  success,  she  remembers  vividly  those  other 
days  and  Hollywood's  friendly  palm  can't  conceal  the  back  of 
the  hand  she  once  felt.  Battling  her  way  through  Broadway's 
hard  school,  rising  from  a  homeless  Brooklyn  orphan  to  a  star 
in  the  talkies,  she  has  Hollywood's  number.  And  once  having 
been  a  telephone  operator,  she  knows  her  numbers.  Holly- 
wood's, she'll  tell  you,  is  the  wrong  one. 

Her  story  is  more  dramatic  than  "Cinderella."  For  being  a 
good  little  actress  in  the  New  York  production  of  "Burlesque." 
Barbara  was  given  the  usual  reward  of  merit,  a  movie  contract. 
She  and  Frank  Fay  presented  themselves  to  the  mogulsof  the 
United  Artists  Studio.  They  looked  at  Barbara  to  find  a 
not  too  beautiful  woman  whose  face  was,  according  to  their 
standards,  marred  by  crooked  teeth. 

"You  must  have  those  fixed."  they  said.  "Actresses  must 
be  perfect.  The  job  is  easily  done.  That  one  crooked  tooth 
can  be  removed  and  a  false  one  put  in  " 

Barbara  answered  simply,  "Not  if  you  give  me  the  whole 
studio,  I  won't." 

The  teeth  remained  as  they  were. 

They  gave  her  a  part  in  "The  Locked  Door."  It  was  an  old- 
fashioned  story  with  such  dialogue  as.  "If  there  is  a  God  in 
heaven.  He'll  protect  me."  Barbara  felt  a  triile  silly  about 
saying  these  lines  and  said  so.  She  felt  sillier  when  she  heard 
herself  on  the  screen.  Barbara  Stanwyck  was  a  flop.  Her 
contract  was  not  renewed.  Well,  well,  the  little  lady  of 
"Burlesque"  was  just  a  big  farce. 

But  her  husband — ah,  he  was  a  success.  Frank  Fay,  having 
left  United,  proceeded  to  grab  off  a  big  fat  contract  at  Warners. 


By 


Katherine 

Albert 


"Under   a    Texas    M<  everybody    said, 

would  prove  a  sensation.  J'icture  Frank  and 
Barbara  at  a  Hollywood  party.  Frank,  im- 
portant, successful,  sought  after,  surrounded 
by  women,  slapped  on  the  back  by  men,  in- 
vited to  all  the  best  places. 

And  Barbara?    "Oh  yes,  that  Stanwyck  girl 
— hasn't  done  so  well."     Barbara  merited  only 
a  perfunctory  "  hello." 

If  it  had  not  been  for  Frank,  his  wife  would  not  have  stayed 
on.  One  night  a  producer  called  her  from  New  York.  He  had 
a  perfectly  swell  show  for  her  to  do  and  wanted  her  to  come 
last  immediately.  But  Frank  couldn't  go,  so  she  declined. 
"You  see."  she  said  much  later,  "I  sort  of  love  that  man  and  if 
I  went  to  New  York  all  I'd  have  would  be  a  good  play.  If  I 
stayed  I'd  have  Frank." 

\    few   more   pictures.      Failure   again,   and    by    this    time 
"Under  a  Texas  Moon"  and  "Show  of  Shows"  had  been  re- 
leased.    Frank  Fay  had  made  the  grade.    Barbara  Stanv. 
had  not. 

\  test  at  First  National  brought  a  shake  of  the  head  from  a 
producer.  At  Columbia  Frank  Capra  said,  "I'd  like  to  use  you 
in  Ladies  of  Leisure'  but,  of  course,  you'll  have  to  make  a  test." 


I  CANT,"  said  Barbara.     ' 
more  of  this  sillv  business. 


T  simply  can't  go  through  any 
No  more  tests,  if  I  never  work 
in  pictures  again." 

But  at  last  when  Capra  could  not  find  another  girl  for  the 
part,  he  said,  "Come  on  into  the  cast  and  try  this  thing  without 
a  test." 

And  thus,  by  a  stroke  of  sheer  luck,  you  were  introduced  to  a 
new  and  brilliant  "discovery,"  a  discovery  who  had  been  lying 
around  loose  in  Hollywood  for  months,  languishing  on  the 
sands  at  Malibu,  being  merely  tolerated  by  Hollywood's 
socially  elite — "that  girl  Frank  Fay  married."  Now,  of  com 
Frank  Fay  has  become  "Barbara  Stanwyck's  husband."  It 
takes  such  a  little  time  for  these  great  changes  to  occur. 

"Ten  Cents  a  Dance"  followed  "Illicit"  and  it  was  during 
the  making  of  that  film  that  Barbara  fell  from  a  parallel  and 
hurt  herself   badly.     She  should  [  please  tvrn  to  page  147  ] 

69 


You  don't  have  to  leave 
your  own  native  shores 
to  find  plenty  of  fas- 
cinating material  out  of 
which  to  write  your 
story  of  "Beauty  and  the 
Boss"  or  any  other 
modern,  romantic 
theme.  The  above  scene 
from  the  Warner  picture 
"My  Past,"  showing 
Lewis  Stone  and  Bebe 
Daniels,  is  one  example 
of  the  type  of  gripping 
stories  woven  out  of 
modern,  native  material 


£2,000.^  For  Your 


THE  day  of  the  land  rush  may  be  over,  but  the  man- 
uscript rush  is  only  about  to  begin.  And  it  is  very 
likely  to  prove  more. lucrative  than  cutting  yourself  a 
piece  of  Oklahoma  prairie,  for  your  manuscript  might 
be  the  very  one  for  which  Warner  Bros,  will  pay  $2,000, 
through  the  contest  being  conducted  by  Photoplay. 

Warner  Bros,  want  your  story  for  their  title  of  "Beauty 
and  the  Boss,"  and,  as  we  have  told  you  before,  they'll  take 
up  to  nine  more  stories  if  they  are  suitable  for  picture  produc- 
tion, and  pay  $2,000  for  every  one  of  them  accepted. 

You've  had  plenty  of  time  to  think  over  your  story  and  put 
it  into  form.  If  you  haven't  done  so  already,  you  still  have 
plenty  of  time,  for  the  contest  does  not  begin  until  May  15, 
and  runs  until  midnight  of  July  15.  That  gives  everyone  a 
chance  at  those  $2,000  checks  that  are  waiting  for  interesting, 
original,  human  stories. 

In  earlier  announcements  we've  told  you  that  you  don't 
have  to  be  an  experienced  writer,  nor  possess  a  literary  style. 
That  still  goes.  You  don't.  But  be  original.  Your  story  is 
what  is  wanted  in  the  PHOTOPLAY-Warner  Bros,  contest. 

Last  month  Jacob  Wilk,  manager  of  the  story  department  of 
Warner  Bros.-First  National,  wrote  a  helpful  article  in  which 
he  gave  you  some  friendly  hints  to  aid  you  in  telling  your  story. 

THIS  month  we're  going  to  give  you  some  more  help,  some 
more  advice  and  some  additional  suggestions  from  Mr. 
Wilk.    Read  them  and  benefit  by  them.    He  says: 

"Stick  to  native  subjects  of  today.  You  don't  have  to  go  to 
Europe,  or  Asia  or  Africa  to  find  life  and  romance  and  ad- 
venture.    Stick  to  home — and  to  the  present. 

"Don't  write  stories  about  the  Revolution,  or  tell  us  who 
won  the  War  of  1812.  That  type  of  stuff,  if  we  want  it,  can 
all  come  from  other  sources. 

"Fighting  the  French  Revolution  all  over  again  isn't  nearly  as 
exciting  as  the  revolution  of  modern  youth  and  modern  people 
today. 

"Keep  away  from  these  period  themes. 

"Instead,  give  us  romance  of  the  present,  the  excitement  and 
humanity  of  every-day  life  as  we  live  it   today.     There  is 

70 


The  best  story  idea  for 
title  "Beauty  and  the 
Boss"  wins  $2,000  in  cash. 
And  the  same  amount 
will  be  paid  for  other  short 
picture  stories  accepted 


enough  of  this  material  right  around  you  without  delving  into 
histories  for  laborious  tales  of  the  past. " 

That  gives  you  still  a  clearer  idea  of  what  is  wanted — 
original,  human,  modern-day  stories.  You  might  have  lived  a 
story  in  your  own  fife  that  would  make  a  gripping  picture,  or 
observed  such  a  theme  in  the  life  of  someone  else.  This 
doesn't  mean  that  they  have  to  be  true  stories.  They  can  be 
complete  fiction.     But  they  must  ring  true! 

So  look  around  you.  Think!  And  then  get  busy  after  those 
two-thousand-dollar  checks. 

They're  waiting  for  you! 

SINCE  the  first  announcement  of  the  PHOTOPLAY-Warner 
Bros,  contest,  a  great  many  letters  have  come  to  the  office  of 
Photoplay,  asking  for  additional  information.  Most  of  these 
letters  were  needlessly  written,  simply  because  our  cor- 
respondents didn't  read  the  announcement  and  the  rules  care- 
fully. 


Another  thrilling 
laid  in  an  D] 
setting  and  spun  out  of 
the  every-day  incidents 
of  modern  life  was 
"Illicit,"  the  Warner 
picture  with  Barbara 
Stanwyck  and  James 
Rennie.  As  glorious  and 
as  romantic  as  the  past 
may  seem  to  be, 
present-day  American 
life  is  every  bit  as 
romantic  and  as  excit- 
ing. Plenty  of  material 
for  your  own   stories 


Pi 


icture 


id 


ea 


This  is  essential!  Read  the 
rules.  They  will  answer  all  oi 
your  questions  and  tell  you  all  you 
want  to  know,  tor  they  are  com- 
plete and  simple  and  easy  to  un- 
derstand. 

In  a  contest  of  this  kind,  where 
there  are  so  many  entrants,   it 
must  be  obvious  to  the  reader  that 
PHOTOPLAY  cannot  enter  into  any 

correspondence,  much  as  it  would  like  to  answer  all  of  you  per- 
sonally. Therefore,  please  do  not  write  in.  requesting  additional 
information.     Read  the  rides. 

As  a  result  of  not  having  read  the  rules  carefully,  several 
entrants  have  already  submitted  their  stories.  This,  of  course, 
is  in  violation  of  the  rules.  Rule  2  clearly  states  that  stories 
should  not  be  submitted  before  May  15. 

Nobody  can  beat  the  barrier  and  expect  consideration  that  i^ 
not  accorded  others. 

Alter  May  15  you  can  send  in  your  stories  as  fast  and  as 
furiously  as  you  like  and  PHOTOPLAY  will  be  waiting  to  receive 
them. 

Hut  under  no  circumstances  are  your  stories  to  be  submitted 
before  that  time. 

The  stories  already  submitted  have  been  disqualified,  in 
accordance  with  the  rules  of  the  contest 

Further,  don't  merely  write  in  suggesting  that  such  and  such 
a  book,  or  such  and  such  a  poem  might  make  a  good  moving 
picture. 

Warner  Bros,  themselves  are  fully  aware  of  the  excellence  of 
a  lot  of  printed  tales,  through  a  department  they  maintain  just 
to  read  what  others  have  written  and  have  had  printed  in  book, 
play  and  short-story  form. 

What  is  wanted  is  original  stories  -your  stories — and  not 
someone's  else. 

IN  submitting  your  stories,  don't  neglect  to  sign  and  attach 
the  coupon  printed  on  the  same  page  with  the  rules.    This  is 
most  important.     And  if  you  want  to  submit  more  than  one 


Read  the  Rides  and 
Conditions  of  Contest 
Carefully  on  Page  1 00 


story  and  have  only  one  copy  of 
Photoplay  to  clip  the  coupon 
from,  don't  write  in  and  ask  for 
more  coupons. 

Copy  it  off  on  your  typewriter 
and  sign  it. 

Each  story  must  have  its  own 
coupon  signed  and  attached. 
And  now  about  the  unsua  i 
rics.  A  lot  of  readers  have  been 
troubled  by  the  thought  that  their  stories,  even  if  they  don't 
win  the  S2.(XM)  prize,  would  remain  the  property  of  Warner 
Bros,  and  that  they  would  lose  all  rights  to  them. 

Read  the  coupon  carefully  and  you  will  see  that  you  give  your 
story  to  Warner  Bros,  only  for  one  of  those  $2,000  checks  that 
are  waiting. 

And  not  for  nothing. 

Accordingly,  as  soon  as  the  winners  are  announced,  all  of  the 
unsuccessful  stories  will  be  automatically  released  and  are  yours 
to  do  with  as  you  will. 

You  had  better  keep  a  copy  of  your  story,  for  PHOTOPLAY 
cannot  undertake  to  return  unsuccessful  manuscripts  to  con- 
testants. 

N(  )WI  That's  a  lot  of  advice,  isn't  it?  But  now  that  you've 
had  everything  carefully  explained,  and  have  been  given 
some  additional  suggestions  about  writing  vour  story,  hop  to  it 
and  win  that  $2,000. 

"Beauty  and  the  Boss'"  is  a  title  already  selected,  around 
which  you  can  write  a  fascinating  story. 

And  nine  others  will  also  be  selected  if  they  will  make  original, 
modern-day  stories  of  the  type  that  you,  yourself,  would  want 
to  see  on  the  screen. 

And  $2,000  for  each  one  of  them  will  make  a  lot  of  dreams 
come  true — that  long-planned  trip  to  Europe,  the  payment 
on  that  house  in  the  country,  or  a  new  car,  or,  perhaps,  the 
start  in  your  own  business. 

Read  the  rules  carefully!    They'll  answer  all  your  questions. 

Now  go  to  it! 

71 


oting 
egins. 


/ 


Cast    your    ballot    early   for   the    Eleventh 
Annual  Award  of   The    Photoplay    Medal 


BALLOTING  begins  this  month  to 
choose  the  best  picture  released 
during  the  calendar  year  1930. 
To  the  producer  of  the  film  so 
chosen  goes  the  eleventh  annual  award  of 
the  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  of  Honor — 
the  most  coveted  prize  in  the  world  of 
motion  pictures. 

What  the  famous  Nobel  prize  is  to 
the  world's  scientists  and  literary  artists, 
the  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  is  to  the 
people  of  the  films.  Moreover,  the  Photo- 
play Medal  is  truly  a  popular  award — 
it  is  the  ballots  of  you,  the  fans,  that 
crown  good  work  with  this  high  honor. 

For  your  convenience,  a  ballot  is 
printed  on  this  page.  Use  it.  Below, 
also,  is  a  list  of  fifty  outstanding  pictures 
released  last  year.  Your  choice,  how- 
ever, is  by  no  means  limited  to  this  list. 
Vote  for  any  picture  of  1930  that  you 
think  worthy  of  this  high  honor,  for  all 
are  eligible. 

In  1930  the  motion  picture  world  be- 
came definitely  committed  to  the  talking 
screen.  The  tenth  annual  award,  that  for 
the  best  picture  of  1929,  went  for  the  first 
time  to  an  audible  screen  drama,  "Dis- 
raeli," felt  in  all  quarters  to  be  a  worthy 
choice. 

At  a  reception  and  tea  given  at  the 
Ritz-Carlton  Hotel,  New  York,  last  fall, 
the  Medal  was  presented  to  Harry  M. 
Warner,  as  head  of  Warner  Bros. 
Pictures,  Inc.,  who,  in  turn,  presented 
a  solid  gold  replica   to    George   Arliss,   star   of   the   picture. 

For  ten  years  the  Photoplay  Medal  has  been  awarded  for 
a  truly  brilliant  line  of  great  pictures.    To  refresh  your  mem- 


Winners  of 
Photoplay  Medal 

1920 

"Humoresque" 

1921 

"ToPable  David" 

1922 

"Robin  Hood" 

1923 

"The  Covered  Wagon" 

1924 
"Abraham  Lincoln" 

1925 

"The  Big  Parade" 

1926 

"Beau  Geste" 

1927 
"7th  Heaven" 

1928 
"Four  Sons" 

1929 
"Disraeli" 


ories,  a  list  of  the  winners  is  printed  on 
this  page. 

Each,  we  feel,  has  been  a  worthy 
recipient  of  this  high  honor.  From  the 
tender  "Humoresque"  to  the  rich,  roman- 
tic drama  of  "Disraeli,"  each  film  has 
marked  a  high  point  in  its  respective 
year's  photo-dramatic  endeavors. 

In  1930  the  talking  pictures  reached 
new  high  levels  in  artistic  technique  and 
technical  advance.  With  many  mechan- 
ical problems  solved  and  the  artists  surer 
of  their  ground,  it  was  a  memorable  year 
in  the  film  world.  A  great  picture  will 
win  the  Medal  for  1930. 

FROM  the  beginning  we  have  asked  that 
in  awarding  the  Photoplay  Medal,  per- 
sonalities be  forgotten  and  all  aspects  of 
a  picture  be  considered.  The  chosen 
film  drama  should  be  preeminent  in  story, 
in  direction  and  in  acting;  it  should  be 
distinguished  by  the  motive  and  spirit 
behind  its  making. 

We  feel  that  every  reader  of  Photo- 
play should  take  great  pride  in  helping 
to  make  this  prized  award,  so  eagerly 
awaited  and  highly  valued  by  the  motion 
picture  industry.  It  is  the  one  great  gift 
of  motion  picture-goers  to  those  who 
serve  them  well,  and  surely  it  is  a  privilege 
to  have  a  voice  in  the  giving. 

The  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  of  Honor 
is  of  solid  gold,  weighing  123}^  penny- 
weights and  is  two  and  one-half  inches  in 
diameter.     Each    medal   is    designed   and   made  by  Tiffany 
and  Company,  of  New  York. 

Now  to  the  choice!    And  mav  it  be  the  worthiest! 


Fifty   Pictures  Released  in  1930 


Abraham  Lincoln 

All  Quiet  on  the   Western 

Front 
Animal  Crackers 
Anna  Christie 
Big  House,  The 
Big  Trail,  The 
Case  of  Sergeant  Grischa, 

The 
Caught  Short 
Check  and  Double  Chech 
Common  Clax 
Dawn  Patrol.  The 
Devil  May  Care 
Devil's  Holiday,  The 
Divorcee,  The 
Doorway  to  Hell,  The 
Feet  First 

72 


Free  and  Easy 

General  Crack 

Green  Goddess,  The 

Grumpy 

Hell's  Angels 

Holiday 

Journey's  End 

King  of  Jazz 

Ladies  of  Leisure 

Laughter 

Let  Is  Be  Gay 

Lummox 

Manslaughter 

Men  Without  Women 

M  in  and  Bill 

Moby  Dick 

Monte  Carlo 

Office  Wife,  The 


Old  English 

Outward  Bound 

Rogue  Song,  The 

Romance 

Sarah  and  Son 

Seven  Days'  Leave 

Song  o'  My  Heart 

So  This  Is  London 

Street  of  Chance 

Tom  Sawyer 

Unholy  Three,  The 

Vagabond  King,  The 

White  Hell  of  Pit:  Palu 

Whoopee 

With    Bvrd    at   the   South 

Pole 
Young  Man  of  Manhattan 


Photoplay  Medal  of  Honor  Ballot 

Editor  Photoplay  Magazine 

221  W.  57th  Street,  New  York  City 

In  my  opinion  the  picture  named  below  is  the 
best  motion  picture  production  released  in  1930. 


NAME  OF  PICTURE 


?{aine- 


Address- 


PH0T0P1  w    M  \..\/i\i     i  n    J 


M^ANNE  MORGAN 


J (l  IK, lliCZ.      V7       (/(  C       fjCtZJt        /■    fCt  l/>0  H  I   yl  /(■  I  <j  (< 


II 


('llCtl  I  (C  I       IK  I"  (if  I  It 

>. .  l/te  i     i 

tL 


a  i  me  n. .  (/te  <     ikccc u , 
k  c    i  ittf) o  i  la  u  cc    o/~ 
a (/ u(t/( 1 1    aJtJbca i« ftcCf 
vie  ort/tc  j hi  it 


tL 


\H 


- 


roMK.N 'a  SOCCXB8...  the  very  words 
kindled  enthusiasm  in  Miss  Morgan's  fine 
dark  eyes,  so  like  her  famous  father's.  "I 
am  deeply  interested,"  she  agreed,  "in 

what  women  have  made  of  t  hem-elves — 

fully  developed  personalities." 

We  sat  in  Bliss  Morgan's  boudoir,  she 
very  handsome  in  her  chair  of  crimson 
brocade  before  the  open  fire.  Sunlight  fell 

OD  her  Cheruit  gown  of  golden  beige  lace. 

her  superb  pearls,  her  wise,  kind  face,  her 
clear  skin  and  fresh  coloring. 

Miss  Morgan  is  so  famous  as  president 
of  the  American  Woman*-  Association 
that  I  had  Come  to  a-k  her  opinion  about 

the  care  of  the  -kin  and  its  importance  to 
women.  Unhesitatingly,  she  answered. 

"Modern  women  desire  that  their  com- 
plexions shall  be  always  clear  and  vigor- 
oil-, "  she  -aid.  "A  high  standard  of  per- 
sonality demands  physical  a-  well  as 
moral  and  mental  development  and  care. 

"'I  myself  have  used  Pond's  for  year-.*' 
she  added  ...  I  felt  a  thrill  of  pride  that 


"Women  are  gratrfu!,"  Miss  Morgan  says, 
for  Pond" s  four  famous  beauty  aids 


MI33  MORGAN  IN  HER  BOCDOIR  IN  HER  HOME  IN  SUTTON  PLACE,  NEW  YORK 


these  simple  beauty  aid-  had.  by  sheer 
merit,  won  the  approval  of  one  familiar 
with  every  luxury  wealth  can  buy. 

'"Through  providing  such  excellent 
product-  so  inexpensively,  Pond'-  helps 
women  achieve  an  attractive  appearance 
...I  am  -ure  they  all  are  grateful."  Mi  — 
Morgan  concluded,  with  her  unforget- 
tably sincere  and  charming  smile. 

Pond's  four  famous  products  keep  your 
-kin  enchantingly  fre-h  and  clear  by  the 
four  simple  steps  of  the  Pond's  Method: 

1  —  For  pore-deep  cleansing,  generously  apply 
Pond's  Cold  Cream  several  times  during  the 
day,  always  after  exposure.  Pat  in  with  up- 
ward, outward  strokes,  letting  the  fine  oils  sink 
into  the  pores  and  float  the  dirt  to  the  surface. 

2 — To  wipe  away  the  cream,  use  Pond's 
Cleansing  Tissues,  better  because  softer,  more 
absorbent ...  in  white  or  Parisian  peach  color. 


3 — To  tone  and  firm,  close  and  reduce  pores, 
pat  cleansed  skin  briskly  with  Food*!  >kin 
Freshener.  It  kanishes  oiliness,  keeps  texture 
smooth  as  satin,  brings  roses  to  your  cheeks. 

4 — For  powder  base,  protection  and  peach- 
bloom  finish,  smooth  on  a  dainty  film  of  Pond's 
Vanishing  Cream,  on  face,  neck  and  ami- 
wherever    you    powder.     Marvelous,    too,    to 
keep  your  hands  soft  and  white. 

• 

Tunc  in  on  Pond's  Tuesdays  5  P.  M.,  D.  8.  T. 

Rcisman's     Orchestra,     Leading     Society 

Women  Speakers,  WF.AFand  S.B.C.  \cttrork: 

Ml.  r  May  2h.  Friday  evening.  9:30  P.  M. 

sf.nd  lOe'  for  Pond's  4  Preparations 

pond's  extract  COMPANY,  LVpt.  T 

114   Hudson  Street N>*  York  City 


ad&ai 


City_ 


_?tate 


Co*TTicM.  1*31.  Pood',  Extnet< 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


ont  care 


warns 

Lew  Ayres 

Universal  Star 


Liearn  the  Complexion  Secret 

nine  out  of  ten  lovely 

screen  stars  know 

'"V^TTHAT  TYPE  do  I  most  admire?"  asks  Lew 
\\   Ayres,  Universal  star.  "The  type  doesn't 
matter  much— if  she  has  that  radiant  charm  I 
can't  resist— youth. 

"I  don't  mean  the  kind  that's  measured  by 
birthdays!  But  that  glowing,  compelling  some- 
thing women  nowadays  seem  to  have  at  almost 
any  age! 

"The  lovely  stars  know  how  vital  youth  is,  and 
how  to  keep  it!  Every  woman  should  learn  their 
complexion  secret." 

Indeed  the  actresses  seem  to  have  no  birthdays 
— to  be  always  young,  delightful,  appealing,  no 
matter  how  long  their  list  of  successes.  "A  flaw- 
less skin  is  the  secret,"  they  will  tell  you.  They 
use  Lux  Toilet  Soap! 

Guard  Complexion  Beauty 
the  Hollywood  Way 

In  Hollywood,  alone,  605  of  the  613  important 
actresses  are  devoted  to  this  very  white  fragrant 
soap.  It  is  found  in  theatres  everywhere— is 
official  in  all  film  studios.  Countless  Hollywood, 
Broadway,  European  stars  depend  on  it. 

Buy  some  Lux  Toilet  Soap— today! 


how  old 


you  are 


The  caress  of  dollar-a-cake 

French  soap 


Fnomi'1  w    M\..\/im:  for  Junk,   1931 


75 


...01 


utyou  must  keep 


(below)  111  I  I  N  CHANDLER,  piquant 
■ttgC  star  now  in  the  movies,  says:  "  I  he 
m.my  ilosc-iips  in  the  talking  pictures 
demand  flawless  skin.  I  find  Lux  Toilet 
So.ip  is  wonderful  for  the  very  smooth 
skin  which  is  required." 


m 


^ 


r 


(above)  MARY  NOLAN,  beautiful  Uni- 
versal star,  is  one  of  the  605  important 
Hollywood  actresses  who  use  Lux  Toilet 
Soap  regularly!  Mary  Nolan  says:  "I 
always  use  Lux  Toilet  Soap  to  keep  my 
skin  smooth  and  lovely." 


(above)  GENEVIEVE  TOBIN.  charming 
Universal  star,  is  equally  enthusiastic 
about  this  w  hite  fragrant  soap.  She  says: 
"I  am  devoted  to  Lux  Toilet  Soap  ...  it 
is  marvelous  for  keeping  the  skin  in 
excellent  condition." 


Toilet  Soap...lOT 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  53 


Hold  that  pose !   Beauteous  Carole  Lombard  has  to  rehearse  this  scene 

from  "Up  Pops  the  Devil"  for  each  of  these  attentive  gentlemen — 

Director  Sutherland,  the  camera  man  and  the  sound  man.     Would 

you  look  as  calm  before  such  a  critical  bevy? 


"D  IVERS  are  now  flowing  up  hill,  and  the  sun 
-1-Vs  rising  in  the  west!  A  Mary  Pickford  pic- 
ture has  been  censored. 

Hard  to  believe?  Almost  impossible!  But 
just  the  same  the  fact  remains  that  the  cen- 
sorious board  of  the  proud  State  of  Virginia 
held  up  release  of  "Kiki"  until  certain  dele- 
tions were  made. 

At  last  this  has  happened  to  Our  Mary, 
whose  pictures  have  always  been  synonymous 
with  sweetness,  light,  the  innocent  prattle  of 
little  children  and  the  tweeting  of  the  birdies! 
It'll  be  a  Jackie  Coogan  picture  next,  if  we're 
not  careful! 

AND  then  there's  the  author  who's 
telling  Hollywood  that  Producer 
So-and-So  turned  down  his  story 
about  an  old  man's  romance. 

"My  leading  character,"  the  author 
says  he  told  the  producer,  "is  a  sex- 
agenarian, and  .  .  ." 

"Don't  tell  me  more,"  the  producer 
cut  in.  "I  don't  want  the  story.  We're 
making  clean  pictures  only.  None  of 
that  sex  stuff  for  us!" 

IT'S  not  always  beauty  that  gets  a  girl  a  part 
in  a  big  picture.  Consider,  for  example,  the 
cast  of  Vivian  Winston  and  "An  American 
Tragedy." 

Vivian,  among  other  girls,  was  being  inter- 
viewed  by  Director  Josef  Von  Sternberg. 

He  looked  at  her  rather  uninterestedly  as 
she  arrived. 

"No.  Vou're  too  pretty.  Vou  won't  do  for 
the  part  I  have  in  mind." 

"Can  I  come  back  in  half  an  hour?''  she 
begged. 

"  Vou'll  only  be  wasting  our  time,"  said  Von 
Sternberg. 

But  she  came  back. 

She  had  used  make-up,  and  added  a  pair  of 
horn-rimmed  glasses. 

She  had  changed  clothes.  She  looked  utterly 
UN-beautiful. 

P.  S. — The  girl  got  the  job. 

76 


HpHEV  are  telling  this  one  about  Charles 
■*■  Francis  Coe — you  read  his  short  stories  in 
Photoplay. 

Some  time  ago,  he  wrote  a  story  called 
"Pennies."  Lon  Chaney  read  it  and  liked  it  as 
a  picture  plot. 

M-G-M  was  about  to  buy  it  when  Chaney 
died. 

Then  the  Fox  people  thought  it  would  be  a 
good  story  for  Milton  Sills.  While  they  were 
negotiating  for  it,  Milton  died. 

Coe  believes  there's  a  jinx  on  the  story,  so  he 
refused  recently  to  sell  it  to  a  studio  for  a 
leading  man  Coe  liked. 

But    even    more    recently,    another   studio 


started  dickering  with  him.    The  part  would 
be  given  to  an  actor  Coe  does  NOT  like. 
Coe  says  he  thinks  he'll  sell  it. 

A  CERTAIN  celebrated  actress, 
infuriated  by  some  of  John 
Barrymore's  vagaries,  stormed  off 
the  set  with  the  sizzling  announce- 
ment that  she  would  never  act  with 
him  again. 

"Well,"  tittered  Jawn,  giving  her 
that  certain  profile  business,  "you 
never  have!" 

A  CAMBRIDGE,  MASS.,  woman,  in  telling 
■*"•  it  all  to  the  judge  in  request  for  divorce, 
said  that  during  the  seven  years  of  their  mar- 
ried life,  her  husband  had  only  taken  her  to 
the  movies  three  times.     She  got  her  divorce. 

nTHE  studio  is  still  receiving  hundreds  of  fan 
■*-  letters  addressed  to  Lon  Chaney  every 
week. 

And  although  Louis  Wolheim  has  been  dead 
three  months,  fan  mail  is  pouring  into  his  old 
studio. 

•"THE  screen  gets  another  distinguished  stage 
*■  actress. 

This  time  it's  Frances  Starr,  for  years  a 
Belasco  luminary  in  the  theater,  and  star  of 
such  great  successes  as  "The  Easiest  Way" 
and  "Rose  of  the  Rancho." 

She  will  play  the  tragic  role  of  the  mother  in 
"Five  Star  Final." 

ONE  of  Eddie  Cantor's  young 
daughters  is  an  autograph  fiend. 
In  her  little  leather  book  are  con- 
tained the  signatures  of  Mary  Pick- 
ford,  Gloria  Swanson,  Joan  Crawford 
and  others. 

One  day  Eddie  said,  "Now  don't 
you  want  me  to  sign  one  of  the 
pages?" 

His  daughter  looked  at  him  in 
amazement  and  asked,  "What  for?" 

V\  THEN  they  threw  the  reception  for  Chanel, 

W  the   elite   of    Hollywood    went   in    their 

grandest  finery.  The  famous  Parisian  costume 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  78  ] 


When  you  sit  tensed  over  the  thrilling  court  room  scene  in  "An 
American  Tragedy,"  you  won't  see  Director  Joseph  Von  Sternberg 
among  those  present.  Here  he  is  though,  directing  the  scene  from 
on  high.  One  of  the  many  specially  constructed  sets  for  the  filming 
of  Dreiser's  great  story 


PBOTOPl  \y    M\i.\/im    ink   Ji  m,    I'JM 


77 


Drink  of  Beauty  at  I  lie  Saline  Springs 


The  Saline  Way  lea  eh 
to  radiant  beauty  and  buoyant  charm 

* 

BY  ALL  means  give  some  part  of  each 
day  to  a  ritual  of  beauty  with  your 
lotions  and  your  creams.  They  do  give 
smoothness  to  your  cheek,  softness  to 
your  skin.  But  don't  cheat  them  of  their 
power  by  neglecting  the  most  impor- 
tant beauty  secret  in  the  world! 

For  there  is  no  radiant  natural  beaury 
except  that  which  comes  from  within, 
and  Sal  Hepatica  is  the  saline  way  to 
complete  internal  cleanliness. 

In  clearing  the  system  of  toxins  and 
wastes,  it  banishes  bodily  poisons  and 
brings  new  clarity,  new  radiance  to  the 
complexion. 

Each  year  thousands  of  fashionable 
Europeans  follow  the  saline  treatment. 
To  Vichy,  to  Wiesbaden,  to  Aix  these 


lovely  continentals  regularly  go,  to  "take 
the  cure".  And  as  they  drink  of  the  sa- 
line waters  of  the  famous  springs,  health 
returns  to  their  bodies,  and  their  skin 
becomes  once  again  clear  and  young. 
Sal  Hepatica  is  the  American  equiva- 


Sal  HcPatica, 


lent  of  the  famous  European  spas.  It  gets 
at  the  source  of  complexion  troubles  by 
eliminating  poisonsand  acidity  from  the 
system.  For  the  same  reasons  it  frees  you 
from  other  digestive  ills  —  from  head- 
ache and  colds,  auto-intoxication  and 
rheumatism. 

oal  Hepatica,  taken  before  breakfast,  is 
prompt  in  its  action.  Rarely  does  it  fail 
to  act  within  thirty  minutes.  Taken  once 
a  week,  it  is  a  guard  against  many  of 
humanity's  most  common  ailments,  and 
keeps  the  skin  always  fresh  and  younp. 
Get  a  bottle  today.  And  merely  ft  r 
the  asking,  by  mailing  in  the  coupon 
below,  you  may  have  the  free  booklet. 
"To  Clarice  in  quest  of  her  youth," 
which  describes  in  detail  what  Sal 
Hepatica  w  ill  do  for  you. 
*  •  • 

Bristol-Myers  Co..  Dcpt.  G-61,  71  ^Tcst  St  .  N.  Y. 

Kindly  send  mc  the  free  booklet.  "To  Oar ice  in  quest 
of  her  youth,"  which  explains  the  many  benefits  of 
Sal  Hepatica. 

N a  me . — _ — 


Strut- 
City- 


state- 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  1-KOM  PAGE  76  ] 


Here  are  a  couple  of  Hollywood  Tildens.  None  other  than  Bill  Powell 
and  Dick  Barthelmess  "putting  it  there"  after  a  friendly  match. 
These  two  old  cronies  are  staging  a  big  reunion  over  at  First  National 

these  days 


designer  showed  up  in  a  simple  suit  of  tweed, 
loaded  down  with  strings  and  strings  of  pearls. 
The  reception  was  not  what  you  would  call 
a  howling  success. 

HERE'S  a  hot  one.  Helen  Kane,  of  Boop- 
poop-a-doop  fame,  has  been  made  an 
honorary  colonel  at  Dallas,  Texas.  Mary  Pick- 
ford  was  the  first  to  get  this  honor.  Boop-a- 
doop  is  the  fifth. 

Halt!  as  we  military  fellows  say. 

THE  best  of  news!    Lila  Lee  is  well  again, 
and  setting  off  on  a  long  ocean  voyage  be- 
fore daring  the  studio  rigors! 

Lila  was  recently  discharged  from  the  sani- 
tarium at  Prescott,  Arizona,  where  she  has 
been  fighting  for  health  since  last  July.  The 
ravages  of  tuberculosis  have  been  completely 
checked,  her  doctors  say. 


T  ITTLE  Renee  Adoree  is  still  at  the 
-"same  institution,  and  waging  a  successful 
fight. 

Renee  made  a  return  to  Hollywood  -some 
time  ago,  but  she  wasn't  ready  yet  for  the 
battle  of  life,  and  had  to  return  to  Prescott. 

Our  Katherine  Albert  visited  her  not  long 
ago  and  found  her  game  and  chipper — and 
eleven  precious  pounds  heavier  than  when  she 
went  into  the  desert. 

Katherine  reports  that  Renee  looks  remark- 
ably pretty. 

She's  let  her  hair  grow,  and  it  now  tumbles 
down  about  her  shoulders. 

"D  V  the  way,  there's  bad  news  from  Gary 
■•^Cooper. 

The  big  boy  went  from  influenza  to  yellow 
jaundice,  and  now  there's  a  report  that  Cooper 
may  have  to  give  up  picture  work  for  a  time 


and  seek  some  health  in  Arizona.    He  doesn't 
look  so  well  in  his  latest  picture  "  City  Streets." 

CLIPPED  from  the   same  news- 
paper: 

Item  1  —  Page  One  headlines: 
"Nevada  Legislature  Passes  Legal- 
ized Gambling  Law." 

Item  2 — From  the  movie  charter 
column :  "Clara  Bow  is  reported  to  be 
considering  the  purchase  of  a  cattle 
ranch  in  Nevada." 

npHERE  wasn't  an  actor  on  the  M-G-M  lot 
*■  who  would  take  Lon  Chaney's  dressing 
room.  Superstition.  Then  Metro  signed  Jean 
Hersholt  and  assigned  it  to  him.  He  didn't 
know  the  difference  until  some  kind  "friend" 
told  him. 

"That's  splendid,"  was  Jean's  immediate 
answer.  "Lon  and  I  shared  the  same  dressing 
room  in  the  early  days  at  Universal.  We  used 
to  work  out  different  forms  of  make-up  to- 
gether.   We  were  friends,  always,  you  know." 

"But  you  may  see  him — there — some  day," 
the  friend's  voice  was  awe  stricken. 

"I  hope  so.  We  would  give  a  great  deal  to 
have  some  of  our  friends  come  back  to  see  us. 
1  would  give  much  to  see  Lon  Chaney  at  any 
moment." 

So  would  many  of  us. 

"Y"OU  have  probably  heard  the  good  news 
■*■  from  the  newspapers — Mae  Marsh  is  com- 
ing back  to  pictures. 

She  is  going  to  play  the  mother  in  a  talkie 
revival  of  William  Fox's  great  success  "Over 
the  Hill." 

•"THERE  is  no  doubt  that  while  Ina  Claire 
-'-was  making  "The  Awful  Truth"  a  few 
years  ago  she  was  temperamental.     She  was 

[  PLEASE  TURN"  TO  PAGE  80  ] 


Presenting  Mr.  Floyd  Gibbons. 
This  famous  writer  and  lecturer 
whom  you  have  heard  on  the 
radio,  will  now  be  seen  and  heard 
on  the  screen.  Mr.  Gibbons  is 
scheduled  to  do  a  series  of  shorts 
for  Radio  Pictures 


78 


Photom  w  M  \..\/im   i  cm  J 


79 


PRICE    DOES 

NOT    MEASURE 

QUALITY  IN  THIS 

TOOTHPASTE 


Council  on  Dental  Therapeutics 

accepts 

COLGATE'S 


See  if  the  seal  of 

acceptance  is  on 

the  toothpaste 

you  buy 


PRICE 


OLGATE'S  is  the  biggest  selling  toothpaste  on  the 
market — and  has  been  for  30  years. 

Colgate's  is  more  universally  recommended  by  dentists 
through  the  years  than  any  other  dentifrice  ever  made. 

Colgate's  now — climaxing  30  years  of  leadership— has 
been  accepted  by  the  American  Dental  Association, 
Council  on  Dental  Therapeutics.  The  seal  signifies  that 
the  composition  of  the  product  has  been  submitted  to  the 
Council  and  that  the  claims  have  been  found  acceptable 
to  the  Council. 

Colgate's  sells  for  25  cents  because  more  people  use  it  than 
any  other  make.  The  price  is  important — but  the  quality, 
not  the  price,  has  held  Colgate  leadership  for  30  years. 


FOR    THIRTY    YEARS     COLGATE'S     HAS     BEEN    THE    WORLD'S     BIGGEST    SELLING     TOOTHPASTE 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  78  ] 


They've  reached  a  big  compromise.    He'll  pet 
$100,000  and  like  it.  But,  then,  who  wouldn't? 

VON  STERNBERG  discovered  Marlene 
Dietrich,  but  she  has  no  corner  on  his  pro- 
fessional attentions.  His  latest  choice  for  future 
glories  is  Frances  Dee — lead  in  "An  American 
Tragedy." 

He's  putting  her  through  his  kindergarten 
training  for  stars-in-the-making.  Taking  her 
to  lunch  almost  daily  and  explaining  his  ideas 
to  her.  She  must  be  on  the  set  every  morning 
at  nine  o'clock  and  not  leave  until  shooting 
is  finished  whether  she  is  working  or  not.  So 
she  can  hear  his  every  word  to  other  actors. 

Well,  Frances'  legs  aren't  quite  as  good  as 
Marlene's  but  she  has  her  points.  Let's  see 
what  we  see  of  this  Frances  Dee  when  Von 
Sternberg  has  finished. 

OF  course  you'll  be  hearing  this 
one  over  and  over  again,  but  they 
do  say  that  the  only  person  to  stop 
those  quick  on  the  answer  Marx 
brothers  is  Jackie's  little  brother, 
Robert  Coogan. 

"Well,"  said  Groucho,  in  a  friendly 
fashion,  "did  you  like  'Animal 
Crackers'?  " 

"Yes,"  said  Robert,  "with  frosting 
on  top." 

THE  Height  of  Femininity  as  manifested  by 
June  Collyer: 
George  Arliss  has  been  searching  for  a  girl 


to  play  the  colonial  vamp  in  his  new  picture, 
"Alexander  Hamilton." 

The  customary  "vamp  type"  was  definitely 
out — the  veteran  Arliss  wanted  nobody  on 
that  style. 

Arliss  talked  to  June  Collyer.  June,  fresh 
from  a  sequence  of  gaga-sweet  roles,  was  ter- 
rified at  being  selected  to  play  a  vamp.  Doubly 
terrified  at  being  questioned  by  the  GREAT 
Arliss. 

June  is,  to  tell  the  truth,  quite  unsophis- 
ticated and  easily  awed  by  "big"  names. 

Well,  Arliss  selected  her  for  the  role. 

"But  I  was  so  scared — even  though  he  was 
very  nice — that  when  the  interview  was  over, 
I  just  had  to  go  to  a  shop  and  buy  myself  a 
new  dress  and  hat  to  restore  my  self-confidence, 
even  though  I  couldn't  afford  it!'' 

GLENN  TRYON  tells  this  one  on 
himself,  so  it's  okay. 

With  a  friend  of  his  he's  been 
making  an  ultra-modern  two-reel 
film  in  which  he  plays  the  role  of  an 
idiot. 

Before  starting  he  consulted  a 
make-up  expert. 

"What  sort  of  make-up  would  you 
suggest  I  use  for  this  idiot  role?" 
Glenn  asked. 

The  expert  looked  him  over  care- 
fully and  said,  at  last,  "Oh,  just  a 
little  number  seven  powder  will  be 
okay." 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  1 10  1 


Mr.  Dreiser  to  you.  The  famous 
author  had  this  somewhat  dubious 
expression  on  his  face  upon  arrival 
in  Hollywood.  His  classic,  "An 
American  Tragedy,"  is  being 
filmed.  He  got  $150,000  for  his 
story  and  is  worried  about  the 
Hays  code 

late  to  the  set;  she  was  unpleasant  to  those 
around  her. 

You  read  the  tales  at  that  time.  They  were 
not  exaggerated. 

Today,  she  is  on  the  same  lot  making  "Re- 
bound." But  she  is  a  different  girl.  Never 
late;  always  pleasant.  Walk  onto  that  set  any- 
time and  you'll  find  her  joking  with  Director 
E.  H.  Griffith,  or  even  the  boys  who  are  pho- 
tographing her.  She  can't  say  enough  kind 
things  to  those  around  her.     She  says: 

"All  I  want  of  Hollywood  this  time  is  to  be 
allowed  to  work." 

Which  explains  her  change  of  attitude  better 
than  we  could  explain  it! 

DON'T  let  this  get  to  John  Barry- 
more,  but  after  seeing  a  preview 
of  "Svengali"  somebody  remarked, 
"That  Mr.  Barrymore  is  getting  so  he 
acts  more  and  more  like  Fredric 
March." 

A  N  unusually  large  crowd  waited  until  the 
■'••opening  of  "Strangers  May  Kiss"  was 
completed  to  demand  that  the  stars  autograph 
their  books,  handkerchiefs,  hats,  etc. 

And  the  star  they  wanted  the  most — there 
was  no  mistaking  this — was  Marie  Dressier! 

V\  7ELL,  you  don't  need  to  lose  any  more 
*V  sleep  over  the  fate  of  George  Bancroft. 
He's  doing  right  well,  thank  you,  has  come 
home,  all's  been  forgiven  and  Paramount  has 
received  him  with  open  arms. 

Well,  perhaps,  not  too  open.  Originally,  the 
studio  offered  George  $80,000  a  picture  if  he 
would  return.  He  was  holding  out  for  S120,000. 

80 


Wedding  bells  for  Mary  Nolan.    The  ill-starred  beauty  who  so  recently 

deserted  Hollywood  for  a  stage  come-back,    will  now  play  a  leading 

domestic  role   opposite   the   good-looking   young   man   here.      In  other 

words,  meet  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Wallace  T.  Macrery,  Jr. 


PhOTOPI  a\    M  \i.\/im    i  i>k   Jim 


8i 


Beauty  experts 


warn 


against  this  common  error  in  choosing  soap 


WOMEN  prize  youth.  Men  are 
attracted  to  youth.  Youth  means 
radiance,  beauty,  natural  charm.  "That 
schoolgirl  complexion"  is  responsible  for 
more  conquests  than  men  will  admit. 

Palmolive  Soap  is  made  for  one  purpose 
—  and  one  only  —  to  keep  lovely  com- 
plexions young — to  keep  that  schoolgirl 
complexion. 

Ordinary  soaps  may  harm 

Don't  be  misled.  Just  ordinary  soaps  — 
whatever  their  claims — will  not  do  for  you 
what  Palmolive  does. 

Until  women  saw  the  value  of  Palm- 
olive as  a  beauty  cleanser,  few  used  soap 
on  the  face. 

When  the  cosmetic  oils  of  olive  and 
palm  were  blended  in  a  complexion  soap 
millions,  on  expert  advice,  turned  to  this 
new,  simple,  natural  beauty  method.  Mil- 
lions of  lovely  complexions  testify  to  its 
value. 

Today  over  20.000  leading  beauty  ex- 
perts —  recognized  specialists  —  urge  the 
use  of  Palmolive.  Because  they  know  the 
use  of  this  soap  makes  their  work  easier 
and  surer  of  perfect  results.  No  other  soap 


— no  other  beauty  aid — has  or  ever  had 
such  a  weight  of  professional  authority 
back  of  it. 

Why  will  these  important  beauty  spe- 
cialists with  large  clienteles  stake  their 
reputations  on  this  strong  recommenda- 
tion? It  is  important  for  you  to  know. 

Olive  and  palm  oils 

Palmolive — uniquely — is  made  of  olive 
and  palm  oils — no  other  fats  whatever. 
This  is  very  important  to  you  who  would 
use  soap  on  the  face.  Nothing  in  all  ages 
has  compared  with  a  blend  of  olive  and 
palm  oils  for  skin  care  and  beauty.  More 
women  know  that — more  believe  it  today 
than  ever  before. 

There  is  nothing  in  Palmolive  to 
roughen  or  dry  the  skin.  Only  the  "deep 
cleansing,"  lotion-like  lather  so  peculiar  to 
a  soap  containing  olive  oil.  No  wonder 
beauty  specialists  urge  it. 

They  see  its  results.  They  note  the 
smooth,  soft, clear  complexions  that  result. 

If  you  want  to  keep  that  schoolgirl  com- 
plexion, choose  Palmolive  Soap  —  and  no 
other! 


Gl^Jd  AfrjuJr  $  oiyjov^alhJi  QcrrrtiJlxiy/juyrty 


82 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

These  New  Faces 

Watch    for   This    Each   Month 

BETTE  DAVIS  ("Bad  Sister,"  Universal)  is  a  Lowell,  Mass.,  girl  who  makes 
her  talkie  debut  in  this  picture.  Born  in  1908,  and  a  pretty  blonde, 
she  played  on  the  stage  for  two  years,  having  roles  in  "Broken 
Dishes"  and  in  "The  Solid  South,"  the  Richard  Bennett  play, 
from  which  Universal  took  her  for  the  picture  role. 


London,  too 
advises  this 

NATURAL 
LIPSTICK 


SKETCH,  famous  London 
magazine,  says:  "This  season,  a 
vivid  artificial  looking  make-up 
is  entirely  out  of  harmony.  The 
first  essential  is  to  choose 
a  lipstick  and  rouge  that 
blend  perfectly  with  your  own 
natural  coloring. 

"Tangee  changes  color  magically  on  the  lips 
and  cheeks  to  exactly  the  right  tone  of  the 
natural  coloring  of  the  skin.  Tangee  suits 
the  smart  woman  of  every  type,  whether 
blonde,  brunette  or  titian-haired." 

TATLER,  world  famous  authority,  adds: 
"Tangee  gives  to  your  lips  the  lovely  glow 
of  youth,  so  rich  in  color  and  yet  so  natural 
that  it  cannot  be  told  from  Nature's  own." 

Tangee,  the  world's  most  famous  Lipstick, 
$1.    Natural!    Permanent!    Non-Greasy! 

Nl  ii  /  Tangee  Theatrical,  a  special  dark 
shade  of  Tangee  Lipstick  for  professional 
and  evening  use. 

Same  Tangee  Color  Principle  in 


Creme  Rouge  sl 


SEND  20d  FOR  TANGEE    BEAUTY  SET 

Containing    miniature    Liostick,    two    Rouges, 
Powder,  two  Creams  and  "The  Art  of  Make-up." 
The  George  W.  Luft  Co.,  Dept.  P6 
417  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 

Name 

Address 


GEORGE  BRENT  ("Charlie  Chan  Carries  On,"  Fox)  was  born  and  edu- 
cated in  Dublin,  Ireland,  and  has  spent  eight  of  his  twenty-six 
years  in  the  theater.  By  his  own  admission,  he  has  played  200 
roles  in  stock.  Some  talkie  training.  He's  dark,  six  feet,  one, 
and  single.    Fox  has  George  safely  under  contract,  and  is  glad  of  it. 


LUKtl  1A    oAYJcKo    (Columbia)  is  the  very  newest  of  Hollywood  Cinderellas 

and,  as  such,  earns  mention  here.    An  exceptionally  pretty  blonde, 

eighteen  years  old,  Loretta  left  the  younger  set  of  Larchmont, 

Xew  York,  to  take  a  Columbia  film  test.    Out  of  hundreds  of  girls 

"  J     tested,  she  was  chosen,  and  it  was  heigho,  off  to  Hollywood! 


HUGH  O'CONNELL  ("The  Smiling  Lieutenant,"  Paramount)  isn't  a 
stranger  to  the  camera — he's  appeared  in  some  howling  Vita- 
phone  shorts.  One  of  the  stage's  best  "dumb"  comedians,  Hugh 
is  now  playing  the  dumb-producer  leading  role  in  "Once  in  a  Life- 
time," the  Hollywood  satire,  and  doubling  into  the  Chevalier  film. 


GLADYS  FORD  ("Big  Business  Girl,"  Warners)  has  had  name  trouble.  Her 
real  name  is  Man,-  Blackford.  Warners  signed  this  sixteen-year- 
old  hopeful,  and  changed  it  to  Janet  Ford.  This  conflicted  with 
the  name  of  an  established  player,  and  as  Gladys  Ford  she  was 
cast  in  "Big  Business  Girl."    She's  a  Beverly  Hills  product. 


LORIN  RAKER  ("Riding  for  a  Fall,"  Fox)  has  been  for  years  one  of  the  best 
known  farce  actors  in  the  American  theater.  Recently  he's  been 
a  radio  player,  too.  Visiting  friends  in  Hollywood,  he  was  given 
a  role  in  Otis  Skinner's  talkie,  "Kismet."  Raker  liked  the  lots, 
with  the  result  that  film  jobs  are  tumbling  his  way. 


JOAN  CASTLE  ("Mr.  Lemon  of  Orange,"  Fox)  is  another  of  the  countless 
Gus  Edwards  discoveries.  As  Rosalind  Cassell,  the  sixteen-year- 
old  girl  did  radio  broadcasting  for  two  years,  and  Gus  heard  her  on 
the  air.  Fox  signed  her,  changed  her  name  and  nursed  her  along 
in  small  roles  till  the  Brendel  picture.    A  New  York  City  girl. 


GUY  KIBBEE  ("Complete  Surrender,"  M-G-M)  played  on  the  stage  for 
thirty  years  before  reaching  Broadway.  Then,  last  fall,  he  scored 
a  sensation  in  "Torch  Song,"  and  played  it  on  the  screen  under  the 
above  title.  Now  he  is  in  tremendous  studio  demand.  He  has  ap- 
peared in  "  Man  of  the  World,"  "Stolen  Heaven"  and  "  City  Streets. " 


Photoplay  Maoazini  roa  June,  i 93 1  83 

Buy  a  bandana  with  that  *3   you  save 


(  omli.it  1  J  tilth  tJriiti- 
trices    in    the    ">() 

I'uite  tit  J  5   <  .  ■ 

you  S  i  ./  )■  .ir.    I  it  tour 

fmmey  dietrntt  ul>.it  >'•// 

buy  uith  the  money. 
I  In-  MUM  /i  merely 
a  iugXiition. 


Critical  women  prefer  this  tooth  paste- 

and  for  a  very  definite  reason 


WOMEN  who  try  Listerine  Tooth  Paste  invariably 
refuse  to  use  any  other.  They  will  not  run  the 
risk  of  affecting  their  teeth  with  an  inferior  dentifrice. 

This  tooth  paste,  they  find,  keeps  teeth  whiter— more 
sparkling — absolutely  free  from  discoloration.  It 
cleanses  gently  and  smoothly,  with  a  really  amazing 
quickness. 

The  secret  of  Listerine  Tooth  Paste's  popularity  lies 
in  the  cleansing  agents.  They  are  hard  enough  to  re- 
move tartar,  and  dislodge  even  the  tiniest  food  particles 
between  the  teeth.  And  yet  they  are  too  soft  to  work 
mischief  on  the  enamel. 

A  lifetime  of  preparation  was  necessary  to  produce  a 
dentifrice  embodying  all 
the   virtues   of  Listerine 

Tooth  Paste.  That's  why,  W         $f  LISTER  |\p 

once  we  offered  it  to  the 
public,  it  was  acclaimed 
by  ever-growing  numbers. 


Now  4  million  people,  in  all  walks  of  life,  have  discarded 
more  expensive  brands  in  favor  of  this  new  one  at  about 
half  the  price. 

Don't  take  anyone's  word  for  it.  Make  it  a  matter 
strictly  between  yourself  and  us.  Try  a  tube  of  Lister- 
ine Tooth  Paste.  Then  study  the  improvement  in  the 
looks  of  your  teeth.  Watch  for  the  added  lustre.  The 
purer  white  color.  The  new  feeling  of  health  and  alive- 
ness  in  your  mouth. 

Listerine  Tooth  Paste  at  2  5f  a  tube  saves  you  about 
$3  a  year  over  dentifrices  in  the  50£  class.  Buy  things 
you  need  with  that  saving. 

LAMBERT   PHARMACAL  COMPANY,  ST.  LOUIS, MO; 


The  makers  of  Listerine 

Tooth  Paste  recommend 

Pro-phy-lac-tic 

Tooth  Brushes 


Listerine  Tooth  Paste-25^ 


u 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

Lola  Lane,  the  youthful  Tiffany-James  Cruzc  star,  is 
one  of  the  first  to  sponsor  the  new  all-white  sports 
costume.  On  the  tmms  courts  you  find  her  endorsing 
the  fashion  of  shorts.  In  the  evening,  over  a  drop- 
lively  simple  gown  ol  chiffon,  she  wears  the  season's 
smartest   choice,   the   "little"   wrap   of   white   bunny. 


ABOVE    ALL   THINGS— THE    NEW   STYLES    REQUIRE   A 


Smart  sport  togs,  the  blithe  new 
tennis  shorts,  clinging  evening  gowns 
— each  is  a  subtle  test  of  your  figure. 

Is  there,  indeed,  a  single  ensemble 
that  doesn't  require  a  figure  of  allur- 
ing rounded  slimness?  A  figure  so  few 
have — and  so  many  desire? 

Yet  it  is  possible  for  almost 
every  girl  to  achieve  this  rounded 
slimness — by    diet   and     exercise. 

Perhaps  the  most  serious  fault  with 
most  reducing  diets  is  that  they  are 
lacking  in  roughage. 

The  result  is  improper  elimination. 
Poisons  remain  in  the  body,  causing 
pimples,  sallow  skins,  headaches,  diz- 
ziness and  even  serious  illness. 

What  a  pity — when  the  addition  of 
one  delightful  cereal  to  an  adequate 
reducing  diet  will  avoid  all  this  dan- 
ger. Kellogg's  All-Bran  furnishes 
the  roughage  your  system  needs  to 
keep  it  clean,  regular  and  healthy. 
It  is  not  fattening — but  it  does  add 
iron  which  brings  color  to  cheeks. 
Isn't  it  far  better  to  eat  this  pleas- 
ant cereal,  than  to  take  pills  and 
drugs  that  may  be  dangerous?  Add 


two  tablespoonfuls  daily  of  Kellogg's 
All-Bran  to  your  reducing  menus. 
Serve  it  as  a  cereal;  in  soups  and 
salads;  in  omelets  or  cooked  into 
bran  muffins  or  breads.  Ask  for 
Kellogg's — the  original  All-Bran — 
in  the  red-and-green  package.  Rec- 
ommended by  dietitians.  Made  by 
Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 
•  •  • 

WRITE     FOR      FREE      BOOKLET 

"THE  MODERN  FIGURE" 
Leading  motion-picture  actresses 
are  shown  to  you  in  "fashion 
close-ups,"  wearing  the  costumes 
that  millions  of  critical  eyes  will 
see  on  the  screen.  Everything 
from  sports-togs  to  evening  gowns.  In  addi- 
tion, the  booklet  is  full  of  valuable  information 
on  how  to  reduce  wisely.  Free  upon  request. 

KELLOGG  COMPANY 

Dept.  A-6,  Battle  Creek,  Michigan 

Please  send  me  a  free  copy  of  your  booklet, 
"The  Modern  Figure." 


Nat 


Address- 


Served  at  the  Studios 


New  Recipes 

lor 

Sandwiches 

Salads   and 
Sundaes 


PERHAPS  it's  just  a  tongue  and  swiss 
combination  t<>  you,  but  on  the  M-G-M 
turant  menu  it's  listed  as  an  Anita 
Page  Sandwich  and  served  on  whole 
wheat  or  bran  toast.  And  it  does  taste  better. 
Or,  maybe,  admiring  Anita,  I  just  imagine  it. 
All  the  studio  menus  are  bright  with  the 
names  of  their  current  stars  and  leading  play- 
ers. Even  the  orders  take  on  a  movie  flavor.  When  Hugh 
Herbert  and  Evelyn  Brent  were  working  together  on  the  Radio 
Pictures  lot,  making  '•Traveling  Husbands,"  Hugh  ordered  ;i 
special  sandwich.  Evelyn,  who  had  already  ordered,  watched 
with  hungry  eyes.  Next  day  she  headed  for  the  same  waitress 
and  said:  "I'll  have  a  retake  on  that  sandwich  Mr.  Herbert 
had  yesterday  I" 

OVER  at  the  Paramount  Studio  restaurant  you  can  lunch 
royally  on  M  u  kick  Chevalier  Sandwiches.    This  is  the 
way  they  are  made: 

Mash  '  2  cup  canned  salmon  and  add  to  it  1  finely  chopped 
hard-boiled  egg  and  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  cucumber 
pickle.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika,  and  moisten  with  cream 
salad  dressing.  For  a  second  mixture,  mash  yolks  of  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  add  1 '  ■>  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1 '  ■>  table- 
spoons chopped  nut  meats,  and  a  few  drops  anchovy  essence. 

Remove  the  four  crusts  from  a  slightly  stale  white  loaf,  and 
cut  five  one-third  inch  slices  lengthwise  of  loaf.  Spread  three 
slices,  on  both  sides,  with  butter  worked  until  creamy,  buttering 
remaining  two  slices  on  one  side.  Spread  two  mixtures  alter- 
nately bet  ween  slices  of  bread, 
sprinkling  egg  yolk  mixture 
with  finely  chopped  green 
pepper.  Wrap  in  paraffin 
paper  or  cheese-cloth,  place 
under  a  light  weight  and  let 
stand  until  serving  time.  Cut 
in  one-third  inch  slices  cross- 
wise and  then  cut  each  slice 
in  half.  Arrange,  overlapping 
one  another  on  a  plate 
covered  with  a  lace  (or  lace 
paper)  doily. 

Gary  Cooper  Sand wiciies 
are  made  of  whole  wheat  or 
bran  bread,  sliced  thin  and 
with  the  crusts  cut  off.  They 
are  spread  with  a  mushroom 
mixture,  cut  in  finger-shaped 
pieces,  and  sauted  in  butter 
until  browned  on  both  sides. 


Dinner  coats  at  noon!     It's  in  the  M-G-M  studio  restaurant  and 
John  Miljan  and  Adolphe  Menjou  are  due  back  on  the  set  shortly 


The  mushroom  mixture  is  made  as  follows: 

Melt  3  tablespoons  butter.  Add  '  ,  dip  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended  Pour  on  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  one  cup 
thin  cream.  Hring  to  boiling  point  and  add  sauted  chopped 
mushrooms  to  make  right  consistency  to  spread.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  paprika. 

TAKE  a  generous  SCOOp  of  pineapple  ice  and  place  it  on  a 
slice  of  canned  pineapple.    Top  it  with  whipped  cream,  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and  cherries. 

"That's  a  double  pineapple  sundae,"  you  say,  your  mouth 
watering.  Hut  out  at  the  Warner-First  National  studio  com- 
missary  in  Burbank.  they  call  it  a  LOR]  rTA  YoUNG  Si  WDAE. 

The  extra  girls'  favorite  is  a  RlCHARD  BaRTHELMI  ss  Sindai 
A  sliced  banana  is  covered  with  ice  cream,  half  chocolate  and 
half  vanilla.  A  mixture  of  marshmallow  and  hot  butter-SCOfc  h 
is  poured  on  the  ice  cream,  and  the  whole  is  topped  with  whipped 
cream  and  sprinkled  with  chopped  nuts  and  cherries.  Such 
devotion,  at  the  risk  of  digestion,  must  be  deserved! 

A  FRANK  Fay  SUND  \r.  is  a  work  of  art.  Strawberrv  ice  cream 
is  put  in  a  stem  goblet,  followed  by   pineapple  ice.     That's 

covered  with  green  mint  sir- 
up, which,  in  turn,  is  topped 
with  the  inevitable  whipped 
c  nam  and  sprinkled  with  the 
inevitable  nuts  and  cherries. 
The  salad  list  is  adorned 
with  so  many  famous  names 
it's  difficult  to  choose. 

Doiglas  Fairbanks.  Jr. 
Salad  is  made  of  prunes, 
stoned  and  stuffed  with  cream 
cheese,  and  served  on  a  bed  of 
shredded  lettuce  with  French 
-inc. 
Bebe  Daniels  Salad  con- 
sists of  sliced  avocado  and 
tomato,  in  alternating  slit  es 
on  shredded  lettuce.  Usually 
served  with  French  dressing. 


Photoplay  MAGAZINE 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous  Cook 
Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the  stars. 
I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


CAROLYN  VAN  WVCK 
So 


"Dear  Mickey  Mouse — " 


Our  Garbo 

This  department  is  making  a  collection  of  Garbo  poems.  We 
already  have  over  3,500  of  them.  When  we  get  a  total  of  5,000 
poems  to  Greta  Garbo  we  are  going  to  have  them  printed  on 
fine  vellum  and  bound  in  royal  purple  leather.  The  following 
beautiful  poem,  written  by  Miss  J.  K.,  of  Ray,  Arizona,  was 
chosen  because  of  its  lofty  sentiments,  its  sublime  imagery,  its 
ineffable  nuances  and  its  ephemeral  je  ne.  sais  qitoi.  Also  because 
it  is  very  short. 

Garbo,  Garbo,  famous  star 
Nothing  docs  your  brightness  mar. 

Climbed  the  rounds  of  fame  so  high, 
Wrote  your  name  across  the  sky. 

When  the  evening  sun  is  set 
And  our  comrades  we  have  met, 

Then  -we'll  seek  our  great  delight — 
Find  a  Garbo  show  tonight.' 


Good  Mean  Fun 

Clara  Bow  is  reported  to  have  a  hideaway  in  the  mountains, 
a  hundred  miles  from  Hollywood.  Shucks!  In  six  weeks  the 
place  will  have  a  tabloid  newspaper!  .  .  .  ''Wild  Boar  Charges 
Chaplin,"  says  a  story  from  Saint  Saens,  France.  Chaplin  has 
been  charged  by  wild  bores  for  twenty  years,  which  is  one  of 
the  reasons  his  poll  is  white  at  forty-two.  .  .  .  Everything  on 
the  Radio  Pictures  lot  these  days  is  labeled  "B.  C." — "Before 
Cimarron."  .  .  .  Mary  Brian  and  Jack  Oakie  are  said  to  be 
really  throbbing  for  each  other  now.  .  .  .  Lupe  Yelez  is  doing 
a  stage  show  in  Los  Angeles  called  "La  Argentine,"  thus  clear- 

86 


xyeeli 


ing 


Around 

with 

Leonard 
Hall 


ing  up  the  mystery  of  why  theaters  are  forced  by  law  to  install 
asbestos  curtains.  .  .  .  Jean  Harlow,  busy  every  minute  since 
she  appeared  practically  au  naturel  in  "Hell's  Angels,"  has 
been  cast  for  the  lead  in  a  picture  called  "Blondie."  They'll 
have  to  change  the  title  to  "Whitey"  for  that  baby.  .  .  .  Kay 
Francis  is  a  pet-lover.  She  has  two  dogs,  a  cat,  a  rabbit,  two 
canaries,  a  parrot  and  seven  goldfish,  not  to  mention  the  new 
husband,  Ken  MacKenna. 


The  Gag  of  the  Month  Club 

Solly  Violinsky  is  a  vaudeville  boy  who  has  become  one  of 
Hollywood's  most  famous  layoffs.  You  could  number  his 
jobs  on  the  thumbs  of  one  foot. 

Not  long  ago  the  Marx  Brothers  signed  him  for  ten  weeks 
as  gag-man  on  their  new  Paramount  comedy.  The  next 
afternoon  Solly  ambled  into  the  lobby  of  the  Roosevelt 
Hotel,  says  Variety,  and  found  his  wife  sitting  in  a  lobby 
chair,  like  one  of  the  gilded  rich  and  easeful. 

"What?"  screamed  Solly,  the  layoff,  "has  my  going  to 
work  gone  to  your  head?" 


Getting  Personal 

Father  Carl  Laemmle  is  said  to  look  with  disfavor  on  the 
current  romancing  between  Junior  Laemmle  and  Sidney  Fox, 
the  pretty  little  girl  who  made  her  talkie  debut  in  Universal's 
"Bad  Sister."  .  .  .  William  (Paramount)  Boyd  and  Addie 
McPhail,  leading  woman  in  many  Lloyd  Hamilton  comedies, 
are  said  to  be  going  hither  and  thither  seriously.  Boyd  was 
recently  divorced  from  Clara  Joel,  stage  actress.  .  .  .  Bobby 
Jones  says  that  if  he  ever  makes  any  more  golf  pictures  there's 
going  to  be  a  clause  prohibiting  studio  bosses  from  asking  how 
to  improve  their  game.  .  .  .  Fifi  Dorsay's  nineteen-year-old 
brother  is  in  Hollywood  and  may  rate  a  Fox  contract.  .  .  .  The 
Betty  Compson-Hugh  Trevor  romance  is  said  to  be  cold,  with 
Jack  Cabot,  a  Los  Angeles  society  man,  the  newer  squire.  .  .  . 
Crane  Wilbur,  the  old-time  movie  hero-writer-director,  and  his 
latest  wife,  Beatrice  Blinn,  have  separated.  Temperament, 
she  says.  Crane  has  been  playing  in  "On  the  Spot,"  stage 
melodrama,  this  season.  Anna  May  Wong  in  the  cast,  too.  .  .  . 
Nice  break  for  Sue  Carol  and  Nick  Stuart.  They've  been  mak- 
ing a  personal  appearance  tour — together.  .  .  .  "Pat,"  the 
police  dog  who  was  with  Director  F.  W.  Murnau  when  the 
German  genius  was  killed,  disappeared  immediately  after  the 
accident  and  has  not  been  seen  since.  .  .  .  One  of  the  Gish 
girls  keeps  working  on  the  stage.  Dorothy  has  been  appearing 
in  New  York  in  the  Theater  Guild's  revival  of  Bernard  Shaw's 
"Getting  Married."  .  .  .  Voice  from  the  past — Carlyle  Black- 
well,  who  used  to  fascinate  the  American  flapper  fifteen  years 
ago,  has  just  signed  to  make  three  talkies  in  England.  Older, 
but  still  booful.  .  .  .  Greta  Nissen,  slated  for  big  vamp  roles 
at  Fox,  has  bought  a  new  house  in  Beverly  Hills.  .  .  .  Six  real 
newspapermen  were  hired  by  Paramount  for  court-room  scenes 
in  "An  American  Tragedy."  The  director  told  them  to  "act 
naturally,  as  though  working."  All  six  went  to  sleep  with  their 
feet  on  the  desks. 


I'll I'l    W     M  \I.\/1M      1  OB     Jl    M 


87 


Xiow   thrilling   ...    to  Iincl 

tiie  fountain   ol  youtn 

in   a  perfume   bottle! 


■  (IS 


To  impart  the  skin-tone  of  Seventeen  .  . . 

Seventeen   Tiro-Tone  fact  Pointer  .  .  .  .1  new  and   dif-  ^H 

fereiit  powder  wlncn  brings  youth  to  your  complexion,  > 

as   Seventeen    Pertutne    brings    youth    to   your   moot'! 
Seventeen  is  a  toO-taJM  powder...  in  which  tones  are 
blended,  just  as   Nature   blends   them  in   tlie  youthtul        /^Crif ) 
skin.    Thus,  Seventeen    imparts    the    true   .shin-tone  of    ^--.       rdjE/l 
youtn  to  your  complexion  .  .  .  tlie  combination  ot  tones  ^ " 
gives  life  and   r.uli.ince,  and  avoids  tlie  il.it  appearance 
of    ordinary    powders.       In     four     fascinating     shades. 
Other   Seventeen   toiletries  .  .  .  Dusting   Powder,  Tal- 
cum   Powder,    Compacts,   a    solid    and 
liquid   Brillantine,  Sachet,  Toilet  VV  ater 
.  .  .  and    tlie    Iditlie    perfume,  Seventeen. 

eue/iiee/u? 


II  I   I   l   N     i  \s   l    I  V  !    I  K  I.  1  S 

v_»oo<Iih-.ss  Knows  I  m  no  explorer]  .  .  . 
yel  1  re  found  it  .  .  .  the  fountain  <>l 
youtn  .  .  .  right  here  it  my  own 
dressing  table  I  It  came  disguised  as  a 
perlume,  in  a  precious  uacon  .  .  .  and 
every  droplet  .smiled  and  twinkled 
.  .  .  well,  just  like  an  April  sunbeam. 
1  Jilted  tlie  stopper,  and  knew  at 
once  .  .  .  that  Seventeen  was  no 
ordinary     perlume.      J  or     at     once, 

almost,  it   caught   me   up. and    held 

and  held  me. m  its  own  thrill- 

'  '/i\      ing   mood    .    .    .    ol    Seventeen] 


88 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


THE  3-FOOT 
CIRCLE  TEST 


Inside  the  three-foot  circle — even  a  slight 
trace  of  armpit  odor  gives  offense.  Yet  the 
offender  can  hardly  ever  notice  that  odor 
herself. 

Fortunately,  there  is  one  safe  and  lasting 
way  to  prevent  armpit  odor  —  Nonspi. 

Nonspi  is  one  deodorant  pronounced  both 
harmless  and  effective  by  competent  medi- 
cal authority. 

Why?  Because  it  is  perfectly  safe,  and  yet 
protects  you  for  3  days  (72  hours).  You 
need  to  use  it  only  twice  a  week.  A  special 
ingredient  used  only  in  Nonspi  makes  this 
possible. 

By  checking  perspiration,  Nonspi  not  only 
stops  armpit  odor,  but  also  protects  you 
from  staining,  perhaps  ruining,  expensive 
frocks. 

Send  10ff  for  generous  trial  bottle,  enough 
for  2  or  3  weeks.  Or  start  today;  get  full- 
sized  50fi  bottle,  at  any  drug  or  dept.  store. 


The  Nonspi  Co., 
Department  6-E 
113  W.  18th  St., 
NEW   YORK. 


NONSPI 

THE    SAFE 
DEODORANT 

prevents    perjjiirdtion 


Short  Subjects 

of  the  Month 

'  I  'HE  movie-makers  are  taking  courage  and  going  into  a 
■*■  new  field.    At  last  they  are  no  longer  afraid  to  take  a  sly 
comic  dig  at  Hollywood,  its  people  and  its  ways. 

One  of  the  funniest  short  comedies  in  months  is  along  this 
line.     It's  called  "In  Conference,"  and  is  reviewed  below. 


IN  CONFERENCE 

Sennett — Educational 

This  could  be  taken  as  a  model  for  two-reel 
comedies,  and  proves  that  the  old  master, 
Mack  Sennett,  keeps  well  out  in  front.  A 
Scotch  picture  producer,  played  by  Andy 
Clyde,  and  his  Jewish  partner  are  faced  by  a 
soprano- voiced  male  star  when  the  talkies  come 
in.    A  riot. 

THE  RINGLEADER 

Educational 

A  William  J.  Burns  mystery,  made  from  a 
case  record  of  one  of  the  mysteries  solved  by 
the  great  detective.  These  Burns  two-reelers 
are  being  very  well  done  and  are  better  than 
some  of  the  big  features  shown  on  the  same 
bills. 

CHASING  AROUND 

Tiffany 

One  of  the  best  of  the  clever  chimpanzee 
series  so  popular  with  the  youngsters.  This  one 
is  about  the  hard-working  papa  and  the  shift- 
less college  son  who  falls  hard  for  a  gold-digger. 
One  of  the  biggest  howls  in  the  picture  is  the 
monkey  son's  rich  Hahvahd  accent. 

SECOND  HAND  KISS 

Darmour 

If  you  think  slapstick  comedy  is  only  for 
kids,  you  just  go  down  and  watch  Louise 
Fazenda  and  Jimmie  Finlayson,  trying  to 
adopt  a  child,  each  one  concealing  the  fact  they 
already  have  a  child  by  a  former  marriage.  It's 
a  wow. 

PARTNERS 

Vitaphone  Variety 

This  is  a  faithfully  photographed  vaudeville 
act.  Sometimes  they  are  flopperinos,  but  this 
one,  being  a  good  sketch,  makes  a  fine  two-reel 
comedy.  William  Gaxton  stars  in  it,  playing  a 
young,  impoverished  business  man  trying  to 
bluff  his  way  into  a  big  sale.  His  office  boy's 
the  partner. 

HIS  PRICE 

Paramount 

Remember  Johnny  Burke,  who  served  quite 
a  spell  with  Mack  Sennett  when  talking 
comedies  were  new?  Here  he  is  again,  playing 
in  a  little  laugh-maker  in  which  he  plays  a 
worried  stockbroker  all  jammed  up  with 
domestic  entanglements.  Johnny's  an  able 
comic,  and  the  skit  has  roars. 

OUR  WIFE 

Hal  Roach 

Stan  Laurel  and  Oliver  Hardy  have  turned 
in  another  winner!  This  comedy  is  a  laugh 
from  start  to  finish,  thanks  to  Hardy's  frenzied 
efforts  to  stage  an  elopement  with  Babe 
London,  who  is  no  featherweight  herself.  And 
when  the  runaway  does  come  off,  Ben  Turpin 
is  the  J.  P.  who  ties  the  knot! 


IIOLL  n  I VOD  II A  PPENINGS 

Sen  nett — Educational 

Old  Mack  Sennett  himself,  without  makeup, 
takes  a  part  in  this.  With  his  comedian, 
Marjorie  Beebe,  playing  straight,  they  show  a 
Baron  around  Hollywood.  It's  a  sort  of 
comedified  travelogue  of  the  film  capital,  and 
a  grand  treat  for  those  who'd  like  to  come  to 
cinemaland. 

THE  PIP  FROM  PITTSBURGH 

Hal  Roach— M-G-M 

Two  tried  and  true  troupers  on  the  Roach 
lot — Charley  Chase  and  Thelma  Todd — man- 
age to  get  a  good  deal  of  fun  out  of  a  slim 
script.  Charley,  faced  with  a  blind  date  with  a 
girl  from  Pittsburgh,  does  everything  he  can 
to  duck  it — until  he  finds  it  is  the  beauteous 
Todd! 

WAY  OF  ALL  FISH 

Radio  Pictures 

Don't  miss  this  one.  It's  the  perfect  comedy. 
Xed  Sparks — with  that  dumb  pan  of  his — 
plays  an  ardent  trout  fisherman  who  goes  wild 
when  his  best  flies  won't  work  and  a  farmer 
boy  catches  a  beauty  with  a  bent  pin  and  a 
worm.  Addie  McPhail  and  Roberta  Gale  are 
swell.    It's  a  scream. 

SK  Y  HIGH 

Vitaphone  Variety 

There  is  a  definite  place  in  the  short  subject 
field  for  little  musical  pieces,  and  this  is  a  good 
one.  It  contains  singing,  dancing  and  a  little 
comedy — it  features  a  beautiful  Broadway  hot- 
song  singer  named  Janet  Reade  (she's  a 
platinum  blonde)  and  it  pleases  the  folks. 

THE  LONE  STARVED  RANGER 

Radio  Pictures 

Roscoe  Ates  stutters  his  way  to  a  sure-fit 
comedy  hit  again.  Just  let  Roscoe  open  that 
staccato  mouth  of  his  and  the  laughs  are  sure 
to  begin.  This  time  he  gets  all  tangled  up  with 
the  law  as  well  as  his  tongue,  and  almost  gets 
himself  lynched  for  robbing  a  Western  bank. 

AFRICA  SHRIEKS 

Vitaphone  Variety 

As  was  to  be  expected,  a  travesty  on  the 
African  Travel-and-thrill  films  has  come  along, 
and  it's  a  screecher.  Hugh  Cameron,  a  well 
known  comic  from  musical  comedy,  is  J  or  Zilch 
in  Darkest  Africa,  and  the  comedian  and  some 
funny  photographic  clips  make  this  an  extra 
enjoyable  short. 

THE  GOSSIPY  PLUMBER 

RKO—Pathe 

Well  handled  slapstick  for  those  who  like  it, 
and  good  dialogue  for  those  who  like  that,  this 
short  will  provide  plenty  of  amusement. 
Arthur  Wanzer  as  the  plumber  is  so  real  that 
you'll  be  disappointed  if  he  doesn't  come  to  fix 
your  pipe  next  time  you  call  one. 


PhoTOPLAK    M\i.\/im     i  ok   Jim,    1931 


The  three  rules  for  strong,  healthy  teeth 

Eat  Right  to  resist  Decay 
Remove  Film  to  prevent  Decay 

See  your  Dentist 

to  check  Decay 


I.  Include  these  in 
your  daily  diet. 

On  fort  ■ 

fruit,  J'f   li  ir^rtn- 

hU  I,   hrtui   i rll  in  e. 

I 
If  mnn   with   iiianzr 

Jill,  t      tins  ijuili  t    of 

mil  h.  andotfu 

to  suit  Hit  In   it. 


STEP  by  step  science 
discovers  what  makes 
teeth  strong  and  healthy. 
There  are  three  rules.  The 
first  two  you  already  know 
— "Use  Pepsodent  twice  a 
day.  See  your  dentist  at 
least  twice  a  year." 

The  third  rule  governs 
the  food  you  eat.  Study 
the  panel  on  this  page  and 
let  it  guide  your  diet  and 
your  children's.  It  is  re- 
markable what  proper  diet 
can  accomplish  in  pre- 
venting decay  and  gum 
disorders. 

Remove  film  daily 
But  while  correcting  your  diet,  don't 
neglect  the  equally  important  safeguard 
of  keeping  teeth  film  free. 

Film  covers  all  teeth.  It  seems  to  harm 
some  more  than  others.  Film  contains 
germs.  It  glues  them  to  the  teeth — their 
action,  it's  believed,  destroys  enamel. 

Film  absorbs  stains  from  food  and 
smoking.  These  stains  most  people  mis- 
take for  naturally  discolored  teeth. 

To  remove  film  more  effectively  than 
by  any  other  method  except  your  den- 


19  found  by 
dental  research  to  plav  an  im- 
portant part  in  tooth  decay... 
to  cause  unsightly  •tains  on 
enamel.  It  must  he  removed 
twice  daily. 

tist's  cleaning,  Pepsodent  was  devel- 
oped. That's  why  it  is  called  the  special 
film-removing  tooth  paste. 

Pepsodent  contains  no  pumice,  no 
harmful  grit  or  crude  abrasives.  It  has 
a  gentle  action  that  protects  the  delicate 
enamel.  It  is  completely  SAFE  .  .  .  yet 
it  removes  dingy  film  where  ordinary 
methods  fail. 

Try  Pepsodent  today  —  it  is  an 
important  adjunct  in  possessing 
lovelier,  healthier  teeth. 


AMOS   'N'  AND  Y  brought  to  you  by  Pepsodent  every  night 
except  Sunday  over  N.  B.C.  network. 


Pepsodent- 


Film 


* 


the  special  film-removing  tooth  paste 


9° 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


dF< 


ame  and  rortune 


1,000  Prizes  for  United  States 

SIX  PICTURE  CLASSES 

YOU  may  submit  pictures  of  any  subject  in 
this  contest.  Prizes  will  be  awarded  in  6 
classes,  and  your  entries  will  be  placed  forjudging 
in  the  classes  in  which  they  are  most  likely  to  win. 

A.  Children.  Any  picture  in  which  the  principal 
interest  is  a  child  or  children. 

B.  Scenes.  Landscapes,  marine  views,  city,  street, 
travel  or  country  scenes,  etc. 

C.  Games,  Sports,  Pastimes,  Occupations.  Base- 
ball, tennis,  golf,  fishing,  gardening, carpentry,  etc. 

D.  Still  Life  and  Nature  Subjects,  Architecture  and 
Architectural  Detail,  Interiors.  Art  objects,  curios, 
cut  flowers,  or  any  still  life  object  in  artistic 
arrangement,  any  nature  subject,  etc.  Exteriors 
or  interiors  of  homes,  churches,  schools,  offices, 
libraries;  statues,  etc. 

E.  Informal  Portraits.  Close-up  or  full  figure  of  a 
person  or  persons,  excepting  pictures  in  which  the 
principal  interest  is  a  child  or  children. (See  Class 
A  above.) 

F.  Animals.  Pets,  Birds.  Pets  (dogs,  cats,  etc.); 
farm  animals  or  fowls;  wild  animals  or  birds, 
either  at  large  or  in  zoos. 

$25,000  in  U.  S.  Prizes 

GRAND  PRIZE 

f  2,500  in  cash  and  a  Bronze  Medal 
141  PRIZES  IN  EACH  CLASS 

For  the  best  picture  in  each  class $500 

For  the  next  picture  in  each  class 250 

For  the  next  picture  in  each  class 100 

For  each  of  next  5  pictures  in  each  class.  .      25 

For  each  of  next  133  pictures  in  each  class      10 

(847  prizes,  totaling  $16,330) 

STATE  PRIZES  FOR  CHILD  PICTURES 
For  the  best  child  pictures  made  in  May  and 
June  and  entered  from  each  of  the  48  states,  also 
the  District  of  Columbia,  Hawaii  and  Alaska: 

First  Prize,  each  state    $100 

Second  Prize,  each  state 50 

Third  Prize,  each  state    20 

(153  state,  territorial  prizes,  totaling  $8,670) 

International  Awards 

The  best  picture  in  each  class  from  each  country 
automatically  enters  the  International  Competi- 
tion to  be  judged  for  later  awards  at  Geneva, 
Switzerland. 

GRAND  AWARD:  Silver  Trophy  and  . .  $  10,000 

SIX  CLASS  AWARDS:  Best  picture  in  each 
class,  a  Gold  Medal  and  $1,000. 
*       *       * 

Total  U.  S.  Prize  Money $25,000 

International  Awards 16,000 

Prize  Money  for  rest  of  world 59,000 

NOTE  that  one  picture  may  win  a  $500  class 
prize,  the  $2,500  grand  prize  for  U.  S.  A.  .  .  . 
plus  a  $1,000  international  class  award  and  the 
$10,000  international  grand  award  ...  a  total 
of  $14,000  for  a  single  snapshot. 


Read  these  simple  rules 
for  U.  S.  A. 

1.  This  contest  is  strictly  for  the  amateur.  Any 
resident  of  U.  S.  A.,  Hawaii  or  Alaska  is  eligible, 
excepting  individuals  and  families  of  individuals 
engaged  in  the  manuf act  ure,  sale,  commercial  fin- 
ishing or  professional  use  of  photographic  goods. 

2.  Contest  starts  May  1,  closes  August  31, 
1931.    (Also  see  No.  14.) 

3.  An  entrant  may  submit  as  many  pictures  as 
he  pleases  and  at  as  many  different  times  as  he 
pleases;  provided  that  the  pictures  have  been 
madr  on  or  after  May  1,  1931,  that  they  are 
mailed  under  postmark  dated  not  later  than 
August  31,  and  that  they  reach  Contest  Office 
not  later  than  September  7,  1931.    (See  No.  14.) 


The  owner  of  a  Brownie,  a  Hawk-Eye,  or  the  simplest  Kodak  has  the  same  chance 
to  capture  a  prize  as  users  of  costly  cameras.   Picture  interest  is  what  counts. 


4.  Any  Kodak,  Brownie,  Hawk-Eye  or  other 
camera  and  any  brand  of  film,  chemicals  and 
paper  may  be  used  in  making  pictures  for  this 
contest.  A  contestant  need  not  own  the  camera. 
The  finishing,  of  course,  may  be  done  by  his 
dealer.  Pictures  may  be  made  from  roll  film, 
cut  film  or  film  pack  negatives.  But  pictures 
made  from  plate  negatives  are  not  eligible. 

5.  Both  regular-sized  contact  prints  and  en- 
largements are  eligible.  No  picture  is  to  measure 
more  than  8  inches  the  long  way.  Prints  shall  be 
made  from  unretouched  negatives  only.  No 
coloring  or  artwork  of  any  kind  shall  have  been 
done  on  either  negative  or  print.  Prints  shall  be 
neither  mounted  nor  framed.  Do  not  write  even 
your  name  on  either  front  or  back  of  your 
pictures. 

6.  Enclose  an  entry  blank  with  each  lot  of  pic- 
tures. Mail  entries  to  Prize  Contest  Office, 
Eastman  Kodak  Company,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Use  the  entry  blank  on  opposite  page,  obtain 
others  from  dealers,  copy  the  form,  or  write 
to  the  Prize  Contest  Office  for  a  supply. 

7.  .Yo  entries  can  be  returned.  All  mailings  are 
at  owner's  risk.  Do  not  send  negatives  with 
entries  but  be  sure  they  are  in  your  possession 
and  hold  them  ready  to  send  on  request. 

8.  AH  pictures  will  be  judged  solely  on  general 
appeal  —  the  interest  they  arouse.  Photographic 
excellence  or  technique  will  not  be  the  deciding 
factor  in  determining  the  prize  winners. 


9.  The  decision  of  the  judges  shall  be  final.  In 
the  event  of  a  tie,  the  advertised  award  will  be 
paid  to  each  of  the  tying  contestants. 

10.  Each  prize-winning  picture,  together  with 
the  negative,  and  the  first  and  sole  rights  to  the 
use  thereof  for  advertising,  publication,  or  ex- 
hibition in  any  manner,  becomes  the  property 
of  the  Eastman  Kodak  Company. 

11.  Winner  of  first  prize  in  each  class,  including 
u  inner  of  U.  S.  Grand  Prize,  will  automatically 
enter  the  International  Competition. 

12.  Although  no  entrant  may  win  prizes  on 
more  than  one  picture,  he  may  win  sercral  prizes 
with  the  one  picture.  Naturally,  the  more  pic- 
tures you  send  in,  the  greater  the  chance  that  one 
of  them  will  win  a  prise — or  prizes. 

•  •  • 

The  following  additional  conditions  apply  to  the 
offer  of  prizes  for  the  best  child  pictures  made  in 
each  state,  during  May  and  June,  1931. 

13.  To  be  eligible  for  a  prize  in  the  Child  Pic- 
ture Contest,  a  picture  shall  fulfill  the  require- 
ments of  Class  A,  Child  Pictures. 

14.  Special  State  Child  Picture  Contest  closes 
on  June  30,  1931.  Entries  must  be  mailed  under 
postmark  not  later  than  that  day  and  must 
reach  Contest  Office  not  later  than  July  7,  1931. 
All  entries  in  Child  Picture  Contest,  including 
winners,  remain  eligible  for  further  prizes  in 
Class  A  at  the  end  of  the  general  contest. 


PH0T0P1  w   M ah/im    i  oa    I 


91 


with  a  bimple  anapsliot 


$2^,000  in  Cash  Prizes  for  United  States  alone 
...  A  Thousand  Opportunities  to  Win! 


Only  amateurs  may  compete. 
Pictures  must  be  made  in  May, 
June,  July  or  August,  1931 

A  CAM!  k  A 1  roll  of  film  .  .  . 
some  simple  subject  to  photo- 
graph. I  hat's  all  you  need  to  cuter 
the  Kodak  International  tflOO.OUO 
Competition! 

It's  all  you  need  to  win  ...  for  the 
kind  of  pictures  yov  take  arc  the  kind 
wanted  for  this  contest! 

I  lure  are  1,000  prizes,  totaling 
S.^,000,  for  pictures  from  the  United 
States  alone.  In  addition,  the  first- 
pi  i/c  winner  in  each  class  automati- 
cally enters  the  international  judging 
at  Geneva,  Switzerland . . .  where  there 
are  six  #1,000  class  awards  and  a 
grand  award  of  #10,000  and  a  hand- 
some silver  trophy. 

And,  as  the  list  of  prizes  shows,  one 
simple  snapshot  may  win  #14,000! 

State  Prizes  for  Child  Pictures 

Three  Special  Prizes  will  be  given  in 
each  state  for  the  best  child  and  babv 
pictures  made  in  May  and  June. 
Pictures  entered  in  this  "half-way"' 


contest  m. iv  also  win  prizes  in  the 
general  contest  ending  August  31. 

Soger  youi  camera  busy.  No  spe- 
cial skill,  no  long  experience,  is  re- 
quired in  this  contest.  Picture  inter- 
est, not  photographic  excellence,  is 
what  counts. 

Famous  People  acting  as 
Fudges,  Patrons 

Photography  is  the  universal  language 
that  bungs  nations  closer  together 
and  makes  for  international  goodwill. 

In  recognition  of  this  fact,  famous 
people  from  all  over  the  world  have 
freely  consented  to  act  as  patrons 
and  judges  of  this  friendly  inter- 
national competition. 

European  princes,  oriental  rulers 
.  .  .  presidents  and  premiers,  makers 
of  history  .  .  .  leading  figures  in  soci- 
ety, science  and  the  arts  .  .  .  such 
celebrities  are  sponsoring  this  impor- 
tant event. 

W  inners  of  the  U.  S.  prizes  will  be 
determined  by  a  committee  of  dis- 
tinguished judges  consisting  of  Mary 
Roberts  Rineh  art;  Rear  Admiral  Rich- 
ard E.  Byrd ;  Rudolf  Eickemeyer,  emi- 
nent photographer;  Howard  Chandler 


Mary  Roberts  Rinehart, 

foremost  authoress, 

Judge 


Rear  Admiral 
Richard  E.  Byrd, 
Chairman  of  Judges 


Howard  Chandler  Christy, 

celebrated  artist, 

Judge 


Christy;  Kenneth  Wilson  Williams, 
editor  of  "  Kodakcr 

\iul,witli  such  prizes  in  sight, you 

will  wish  to  use  him  you  can  depend 
On  for  clear,  sparkling  pictures.  ^  OU 
can  depend  on  Kodak  Film,  or  the 
new  Kodak  Verichrome  Film.  Only 
Eastman  makesthescfilms.  Both  come- 
in  the  yellow  box. 

Get  busy!  See  your  dealer  about  a 
supply  of  film.  Make  lots  of  snap- 
shots! Send  in  as  many  as  you  please, 
as  often  as  you  wish.  Clip  the  entry 
blank  below.    And  enter  to  win. 

*        *        » 
Tune  in  for  news  of  the    Kodak  conresr    over 
N.  B.  C.  Red  Network   every  Friday  evening, 
10:00  p.m.  Eastern  daylight  saving  time. 
Pacific  Coast  program,  9:50  p.m.  Pacific  time. 


For  pictures  of  ibt  prhr-uinnmt  kind.  »J» 
Kodak  Vtlm  tn  the  /jmilijr  \ellnu  box.  or 
the  new  Kodak  Yerichrome  Film  in  the 
yellow  box  uith  checkered  Uripei. 

Entry  Blank— C/f/)  it  Nowl 

I  Mail  blank  v\:h  your  entries  to  Prize  Contest  . 
Office,  Eastman  Kodak  Company.  Rochester,  I 
IN.  Y.  Po  not  place  your  name  on  either  the  I 
front  or  back  of  any  picture.  i 


Sawn. 


■ 


Torn  and  State . 


J  Make  of  Camera. 
I  Make  of  Film 

I 


rturr*  _ 
4.  o'^roiyinf  lAu  hiamk 


KODAK  INTERNATIONAL  SIOO.000  COMPETITION  //^T/ 


cr> 


Q 


u  e  s  1 1  o  n  s 


e?  A 


nswers 


Read  This  Before 
Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call 
fur  unduly  lon^  answers, 
such  as  synopses  of  plays. 
Do  not  inquire  concerning 
'.  scenario  writing, 
or  studio  employment. 
Write  on  only  one  side  of 

the    paper.      Sifjn  your  full 
name  and  address.      If  you 

want  a  personal  reply,   be 

sure  to  (in  lose   a  stamped, 
S'  If  addressed     envelope. 


Adolphe  Menjou,  Mary  Brian  and  Pat  O'Brien  glimpsed  in 

a  big  moment  from  "The  Front  Page" — smash  newspaper 

talkie,  conceded  the  best  of  its  kind,  to  date 


Casts  and 
Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much 
space,  we  treat  such  sub- 
jects in  a  different  way  from 
other  questions.  For  this 
kind  of  information,  a 
stamped,  addressed  en- 
velope must  always  be  sent. 
Address  all  inquiries  to 
Questions  and  Answers, 
!  i  ay  Magazi 

\V.57th  St.,  New  York  City. 


THE  FRONT  PAGE,"  that  dynamic 
newspaper  talkie,  has  got  the  fans  in  a 
high  state  of  excitement  this  month. 
Brilliantly  directed  by  Lewis  Milestone,  who 
made  a  classic  of  "All  Quiet  on  the  Western 
Front,"  this  picture  has  all  the  ingredients  to 
gladden  the  heart  of  the  most  critical  fan. 
Alary  Brian  was  borrowed  from  Paramount  to 
play  the  girl,  and  Pat  O'Brien,  a  newcomer  to 
the  screen,  plays  the  young  reporter,  Hildy 
Johnson — a  character  drawn  from  life;  inci- 
dentally this  real  Hildy  Johnson  died  in  Chi- 
cago recently,  while  still  on  the  job.  The  real 
interest,  however,  centers  around  Adolphe 
Menjou  in  the  part  of  Walter  Burns,  the  tough 
managing  editor.  Menjou  steps  out  of  his 
routine  sophisticated  roles  and  makes  his  char- 
acterization something  that  will  long  be  re- 
membered for  its  realness. 

A.  B.,  Newark,  N.  J.:  Right  you  are,  A.  B. 
Adolphe  Menjou  is  married.  He  has  been  mar- 
ried twice.  Kathryn  Carver  is  now  the  lucky 
girl,  and  the  happy  event  took  place  in  1928. 
Menjou  hails  from  Pittsburgh,  Penna. 

Eileen  Merry,  Philadelphia,  Penna.: 
Pat  O'Brien's  portrayal  of  Hildy  Johnson  in 
"The  Front  Page"  was  the  first  part  he's 
played  in  pictures,  with  the  exception  of  a  few 
Vitaphone  shorts  he  made  in  the  East  while 
filling  a  New  York  stage  engagement.  He  is 
31  years  old,  was  born  in  Milwaukee  and  mar- 
ried Eloise  Taylor  last  January. 

Diana  Franklin,  Chicago,  III.:  George 
Stone  was  born  in  Lodze,  Poland,  May  25, 
1903.  He  weighs  110  pounds,  is  5  feet,  3  and 
has  brown  hair  and  eyes.  He  has  been  in  the 
movies  since  1927. 

Kay,  Cleveland,  Ohio:  Edward  Everett 
Horton  was  born  in  Brooklyn,  New  York.  He 
has  never  married  and  has  been  in  pictures  for 
about  10  years;  during  which  time  he  has  pro- 
duced and  played  in  a  number  of  stage  plays  in 
Hollywood  and  Los  Angeles.  His  last  pictures 
are  "Lonely  Wives"  and  "The  Front  Page." 

LtjCTEN  VoiSARD,  Plymotjth,  Ohio:  Helen 
Twclvetrees  is  really  Helen  Jurgen,  but  Joan 
Blondell  kept  her  own  name.  Nancy  Carroll 
changed  hers  from  Nancy  LaHiff.  Elissa 
Landi,  Janet  Gaynor  and  Charles  Farrell  were 
all  born  that  way. 

Charlotte  M.  Schatjer,  Holyoke,  Mass.: 
Janet  Gaynor  is  a  Philadelphia  girl,  born  Octo- 
ber 6,  1906.  She  has  lovely  naturally  curly 
auburn  hair  and  brown  eyes,  weighs  96  pounds 
and  is  just  5  feet  high. 

92 


J.  D.  Ctolla,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y.:  Bert 
Wheeler  was  born  in  Paterson,  N.  J.,  Robert 
Woolsey  in  Oakland,  Calif.  Yes,  Wallace  and 
Noah  Beery  are  brothers. 

Mary  Smith,  Memphis,  Tenn.:  Joel  Mc- 
Crea  was  born  in  Los  Angeles,  Calif.,  Novem- 
ber 5,  1905.  He  is  6  feet,  2;  weighs  185  pounds 
and  has  brown  hair  and  blue  eyes.  Before  he 
entered  pictures  in  1928,  he  played  several 
parts  in  amateur  theatricals.  His  most  recent 
pictures  are  "Kept  Husbands"  and  "Once  a 
Sinner." 

Marion  Pearce,  Peoria,  III.:  So  you're  a 
Kay  Johnson  fan,  Marion.  She  was  born  in 
Mt.  Vernon,  N.  Y.,  and  is  5  feet,  4  inches  tall, 
with  blonde  hair  and  blue  eyes.  Kay  is  Mrs. 
John  Cromwell.  Her  husband  directs  pictures 
now.  He  was  on  the  stage  directing  and  acting. 

A  Fan,  Detroit,  Mich.:  Paul  Lukas  is  from 
Budapest,  Hungary,  born  on  May  26,  1896. 
He  was  educated  at  the  Royal  Hungarian  Uni- 
versity and  when  he  came  to  America  in  1927 
he  couldn't  speak  a  word  of  English.  He  was  in 
pictures  in  Budapest  and  on  the  stage  abroad  for 
14  years.  He  is  6  feet,  2;  weighs  182  pounds 
and  has  dark  brown  hair  and  gray  eyes.  His 
two  latest  pictures  are  "Unfaithful"  and  "The 
Vice  Squad." 

Carol  Cannon,  St.  Paul,  Minn.:  Little 
Mitzi  Green  is  11  years  old.  Stanley  Smith  is 
on  the  New  York  stage  in  a  musical  comedy 
called  "You  Said  It."  You'll  see  Charles  Rogers 
next  in  "The  Lawyer's  Secret."  He  has  been 
in  Europe.  Phillips  Holmes  and  Nancy  Car- 
roll played  together  in  "Stolen  Heaven." 
Jackie  Coogan  was  born  October  26,  1914,  and 
Robert,  his  brother,  is  just  6  years  old.  Davey 
Lee  was  born  January  3,  1925. 

A  Reader,  Detroit,  Mich.:  Bela  Lugosi.  of 
"Dracula"  fame,  like  Paul  Lukas,  is  a  native 
of  Hungary.  He  played  in  several  stage  pro- 
ductions, one  of  which  was  "Dracula."  He  is 
now  working  at  the  Fox  Studio  in  "Women  of 
All  Nations." 

Earl  Edward  Thornton,  Washington, 
D.  C:  Lois  Moran  did  a  play  in  New  York  this 
winter,  but  she's  back  at  the  Fox  Studio  now. 
She  was  born  in  Pittsburgh,  Penna.,  March 
11.  1909.  weighs  118  pounds  and  is  5  feet,  1}^ 
inches  tall.  She  has  blonde  hair,  bobbed,  and 
blue-gray  eyes. 

Lillian  M.  Dick.  SCHENECTADY,  N.  Y.: 
Ina  Claire  (real  name  Inez  Fagan)  was  born  in 
Washington,  D.  C. 


Lorraine  Biddle,  Chicago,  III.:  Monroe 
Owsley  was  born  in  Atlanta,  Georgia.  He 
weighs  156  pounds,  is  5  feet,  10  and  has  brown 
hair  and  blue  eyes.  BefoTe  appearing  on  the 
stage,  he  was  a  newspaper  man.  You'll  be  see- 
ing a  lot  more  of  him.  He  has  just  signed  a 
long-term  contract  with  M-G-M.  His  last  pic- 
ture was  for  Paramount — "Honor  Among 
Lovers." 

Doris  B.,  Saginaw,  Mich.:  So  you  think 
Anita  Page  is  awkward.  She  really  isn't.  She 
weighs  118  pounds  and  is  5  feet,  3  inches  tall. 
Winnie  Lightner  is  5  feet,  4  inches  tall  and 
weighs  130  pounds. 

Anna  Marcaret  Krontler,  Nashville, 
Tenn.:  Dorothy  Janis  is  not  a  sister  of  Elsie. 
Her  real  name  is  Dorothy  Penelope  Jones. 
She  played  opposite  Ramon  Novarro  in  "The 
Pagan."  May  McAvoy  hasn't  been  in  pictures 
since  her  marriage  to  Maurice  Cleary. 

B.  M.  C.  Deane,  Toronto,  Canada:  Ralph 
Forbes  is  married  to  Ruth  Chatterton.  He  was 
bom  in  London,  England,  September  10,  1901. 
He  has  blond  hair,  blue  eyes,  weighs  168  pounds 
and  is  6  feet  tall.  His  last  picture  was  "The 
Bachelor  Father"  with  Marion  Da  vies  at  the 
M-G-M  Studio  and  if  you  write  there  you'll 
surely  get  a  reply  from  him.  Marion  Davies 
was  born  on  January  3,  1900. 

Kathleen  Barthlon,  Frederick,  Md.: 
Virginia  Valli  was  married  to  Demarest  Lam- 
son  before  she  married  Charlie  Farrell.  She  is 
of  Irish-American  birth,  born  in  Chicago, 
January  19,  1900.  She  weighs  120  pounds  and 
is  5  feet,  3  inches  tall.  Entered  the  movies 
when  she  was  16  years  old. 

Helen  C.  Morris,  New  York,  N.  Y. :  Here's 
a  short  biography  of  Ramon  Novarro.  Born  in 
Durango,  Mexico,  of  Spanish  parents,  on  Feb- 
ruary 6,  1899.  Entered  the  movies  as  an  extra 
in  1917.  He  has  five  sisters  and  four  brothers 
living  and  none  of  them  are  in  pictures.  He 
studied  singing  with  Louis  Graveure.  Ramon 
has  dark  brown  curly  hair,  brown  eyes,  is  5  feet, 
10  inches  tall  and  weighs  160  pounds.  His 
latest  picture  is  "  Daybreak." 

Margaret  Erdman,  Chicago,  III.:  Con- 
stance Bennett  was  born  on  October  3,  1904, 
in  New  York  City.  Sharon  Lynn  was  born  in 
the  same  year  but  in  Weatherford,  Texas. 
Marjorie  White  hails  from  Winnipeg,  Canada. 
She  was  born  on  July  22,  weighs  103  pounds 
and  is  4  feet,  10)  2  inches  tall.  Norma  Tal- 
madge  was  bom  on  May  26,  1897,  in  Niagara 
Falls,  N.  Y. 


Photoplay  Uaoazini   pot  Mm.  1931 


93 


our  six  f  boors 
am  nrn  ulcW  stars 


99 


STUDY   MY    MANNEQUIN    AND    HER    STARS    TO    KNOW    WHY 

Unlit  a  heallnif  Jitin  can  .slau  uouiia 


THE  Forehead —  To  guard  against  litm 
and  wrinkles  here,  apply  Milkueed  Cream, 
Stroking  with  fingertips,  outward  from  the 
center  of  your  brow. 

THE  EYES — If  you  would  avoid  aging 
feet,  smooth  Ingram's  about  the  eyes,  stroke 
uith  a  feather  touch  outward,  beneath  eyes 
and  over  eyelids. 


THE  MOl  tii  —  Drooping  lines  a-, 
'cite.:  5  the  fingertips  uith  my  cream 

and  sliding  them  upu  ard  our  the  mouth  and 
utuard  toward  the  ears,  starting  at 
the  middle  of  the  . 

the  throat  —  To  keep  your  throat  from 
fiabbiness.   coier  with  a  film  of  Mill 
and  smooth  gently  dounuard.  ending  with 
rotary  moiement  at  base  oj  neik. 


Rv  Fram-cs  Ingram 

I  HAD  almost  forgone  a  bet  -  the 
amusing  and  quite  dthghtlul  girl 
who  came  to  see  me  monthi  ago.  And 
then    tins  letter  from  <  alifornia. 

"Remember  when  I  came  to  consult 
with  you,  List  September?  I  told  you  I 
was  going  to  find  a  bin  hat  with  a  v.  ide 
floppy  brim  and  a  veil  I  To  bide  what 
a  whole  summer  spent  principally  on 
the  Sound  had  done  to  my  poor  skin. 

"I'm  doing  the  Pacific  now,"  the  let- 
ter goes  on  to  say.  "But  every  night  I 
spread  your  Milkweed  Cream  lavishly 
over  my  face  and  neck,  and  leave  it  for 
Several  minutes  so  that  the  delicate  oils 
can  penetrate  deeply  into  the  pores. 

"Then — I  put  on  a  fresh  film  of  Milk- 
weed Cream  and  pat  it  in,  stroking 
outward  and  upward  at  the  six  stars 
shown  on  your  mannequin. 

"Vim  have  no  idea  what  a  difference 
your  cream  and  your  method  have  made 
in  my  skin.  It's  soft  now — without  a 
single  blemish! 

"And  I  can  wear  an  off-thc-forchcad 
hat  with  entire  nonchalance!" 

t        1        t 
Will  you  try  my  starred  way  to  a  soft, 
clear  skin?  You  have  only  to  follow  the 
instructions  given  below. 

In  my  radio  programs  "Through  the 
Looking  Glass  With  Frances  Ingram" 
(Tuesdays,  10:15  A.  M.,  EJXS.T,  WJZ 
and  associated  stations)  I  discuss  many 
skin  problems.  Mail  the  coupon  below 
for  my  free  booklet,  "Why  Only  a 
Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young". 


the  RECK  —  To  prevent  a  sagging  chin  and 
a  lined  neck,  stroke  uith  fingertips  coiered 
uith  Milkueed  from  middle  of  chin  toward 
the  ears  and  patting  firmly  all  along  the 
jaw  contours. 

the  BHOl  UTEBS — To  haie  shoulders  that 
are  blemish-free  and  firmly  smooth,  cleanse 
uith  Milkueed  Cream  and  massage  uith 
palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion. 


INGRAM'S  crv,.,,  ,  rs 


three  sizes..  50, .  .$i  .  .$1.75 


Frances  Ingram.  Dept  A-^l 

108  Washington  St.,  N.  Y.  C. 

Please  send  me  your  free  booklet.  ""Why  Only  a   Healthy 

Skin  Can  Stay  Young,  "which  tells  in  complete  detail  how 

to  care  for  the  skin  and  to  guard  the  six  viral  ;pots  of  youth. 

.V  j  mi 

Address. 


94 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


BETTER    BRISTLES 

More  spring  in  Tek  Bristles  and  there- 
fore more  cleansing  power.  Laboratory 
tested  for  lasting  resiliency. 


BETTER    SHAPE 

Tek    fits    like    this   behind    your   front 

teeth.  So  it  contacts  every  curve  and 

crevice  of  your  dental  arch. 


the  modern 
TOOTH  BRUSH 


BETTER    VALUE 

Tek  offers  you  higher  quality  at  no 
extra  cost.  Sterilized  and  sealed ..  at 
your  dealer's,  Tek,  50C.  Tek  Jr.,  35C. 
Guaranteed  product  of  the  world's 
largest    makers    of   dental    accessories. 


Ten  Years  Ag 


o 


in 


Gaston  Glass 
and  Vera  Gor- 
don in  "Humor- 
esque,"  the  pic- 
ture that  won 
the  first  PHO- 
TOPLAY Gold 
Medal,  back  in 
1921 


TEN  years  ago  this  month  we  announced 
the  foundation  of,  and  the  first  balloting 
for,  the  Photoplay  Magazine  Gold  Medal 
of  Honor — destined  to  become  the  outstanding 
award  in  the  motion  picture  world  for  good 
work  well  done. 

That  epoch-making  announcement  outlined 
the  rules  for  the  award  as  they  stand  to  this 
day — the  expression  of  your  mass  opinion  on 
the  best  motion  picture  released  during  the 
preceding  calendar  year. 

Through  the  summer  of  1921  the  balloting 
continued,  and  a  few  months  later  the  first 
Photoplay  Medal  was  awarded  to  the  pro- 
ducers of  "Humoresque,"  that  remarkably  fine 
sentimental  story  in  which  the  leading  roles 
were  played  by  Gaston  Glass,  Vera  Gordon 
and  the  late  Alma  Rubens. 

In  this  issue  we  announce  the  start  of  ballot- 
ing for  the  eleventh  award  of  the  now  historic 
medal.  In  a  few  months  another  great  motion 
picture  will  be  added  to  the  honored  list  of  past 
winners.  And  now,  if  you  haven't  already, 
turn  to  the  Gold  Medal  page,  clip  the  ballot 
and  vote  for  the  best  picture  in  1930! 

And  it  was  just  exactly  a  decade  ago  that 
the  learned  Burns  Mantle  attacked  his  type- 
writer in  behalf  of  the  first  film  version  of  Mark 
Twain's  "A  Connecticut  Yankee,"  calling  it 
the  second  best  comedy  of  the  year — "The 
Kid"  being  ranked  first  by  our  critic. 

Today  the  country  is  chuckling  at  the  talkie 
version  of  the  same  great  yarn,  with  'Will 
Rogers  as  the  Yankee.  The  role  was  played 
ten  years  ago  by  Harry  C.  Myers,  recently 
with  Chaplin  in  "City  Lights."  Here  are  some 
of  the  other  players,  then  and  now — The  Kin^, 
Charles  Clary  and  William  Farnum;  Alisande, 
Pauline  Starke  and  Maureen  O'Sullivan;  Queen 
Morgan  La  Fay,  Rosemary  Theby  and  Myrna 
Loy. 

It  was  a  swell  picture  then,  and  it's  a  good 
picture  now.  If  there's  another  sort  of  motion 
picture  in  another  ten  years,  we  can  expect 
"A  Connecticut  Yankee"  again.    And  why  not? 

A     BEAUTIFUL  roto  picture  of  Madge  Bel- 

■**■  lamy,  then  only  seventeen.    Hmm — that 
makes  her  only  twenty-seven  now!   Where  are 


you,  Madge?  .  .  .  Two  pages  of  pictures  of 
Gloria  Swanson,  too — from  a  solemn  baby  of 
eighteen  months,  through  girlhood  and  cus- 
tard-pie days  at  Sennett,  to  her  1921  status  as 
DeMille  star.  Accompanying  the  photographs, 
a  story  about  her  by  Elinor  Glyn  .  .  .  Then 
we  have  an  interview  with  the  Gish  girls,  in 
which  Lillian  and  Dorothy  tell  family  tales 
about  each  other — in  a  very  nice  and  ladylike 
way  .  .  .  Carolyn  Van  Wyck  makes  her  bow 
in  our  pages. 

rT'HE  month's  gossip  says — 
*      Mary  Pickford  and  Doug  Fairbanks  post- 
poned a  Mexican  trip  for  several  days  because 
of  the  alarming  illness  of  Jack  Pickford.    The 
boy  was  very  low  with  double  pneumonia. 

Pauline  Frederick  has  again  returned  to  the 
speaking  stage. 

Richard  Bennett,  stage  star,  is  in  Hollywood 
learning  to  direct  pictures  (this  is  1921  speak- 
ing, mind  you!). 

A  son  has  just  been  born  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
H.  B.  Warner. 

SOME  memorable  and  remembered  produc- 
tions among  the  pictures  of  the  month.  How 
many  do  you  recall  with  pleasure?  .  .  .  Pola 
Negri  in  "Gypsy  Blood"  .  .  .  Doug  Fairbanks 
in  "The  Nut"  .  .  .  Marguerite  Clark's  brief 
return  to  the  screen  in  "Scrambled  Wives" 
.  .  .  Wally  Reid  and  Agnes  Ayres  in  "The 
Love  Special"  .  .  .  Thomas  Meighan  in  "The 
City  of  Silent  Men"  .  .  .  and  Fatty  Arbuckle 
in  "The  Dollar-a-Year  Man,"  with  Lila 
Cuddles  Lee  as  his  leading  woman — and  a 
plump  little  thing  she  was,  too,  in  those  far-off 
days  at  Paramount. 

THIS  month  we  print  the  first  magazine 
story  about  Jackie  Coogan,  the  might}-  mite 
who  snared  all  our  hearts  in  "The  Kid." 

Miss  Joan  Jordan,  interviewing  Master  Coo- 
gan, was  able  to  get  little  out  of  the  young  man 
save  on  the  subject  of  dogs. 

When  asked  how  he  liked  pictures,  he 
summed  it  all  up  by  remarking  that  he  "liked 
the  Chaplin  studio  fine  because  there  was  a  lot 
of  dogs  there." 


Photoplai   Magazini    roe.  Jim.  l'^l 


Only  this  brilliant  JNail  Make-up 
gives  finger  tips  enduring  CIlCHDl 


Casts  Ass,  wears  longer.  Chosen 

by  smart  women  in  S  capitals 
of  the  world  .  .  .  "Gives  nails 
c  i  otic  brilliance, ' '  writes  famous 
Beauty  Editor  from  tin    Lido. 


BI   MTY-WISF  women  all  over 
the   world   enhance   tin-   allure 
of  their  most  graceful  gestures  with 

Cutex   Liquid   Polish. 

"The  Italian  woman  .  .  .  adored  for 
her  seductive  Latin  charm  .  .  .  quite 
naturally  avails  herself  of  this  roman- 
tic new  nail  make-up,"  says  Maria 
Carelli  Mastrigli,  of  the  Roman  fash- 
ion journal,  "Garnet  Mondain." 

"  \\  e  brush  it  on  smoothly,  quickly 
. . .  and  in  50  seconds  it  has  dried. 

1  hen    tor    days    it    keeps    our    nails 

sheathed  in  crystal  brilliance,  with- 
out cracking,  peeling  or  discoloring. 

"Smart  women  of  my  country  are 
glad  to  find  that  Cutex  Liquid  Polish 
contains  no  perfume  For  we  choose 
our  exquisite   perfumes   as  we   Select 

our  gowns  ...  to  suit  our  personali- 
ties. But  we  choose  our  polish*  for 
its  lustre.  And  the  brilliance  of  Cutex 
Liquid  Polish  endures  Ion;:  after  per- 
fumed polishes  are  dull  and  lifeless." 


Alluring  fingers  the  world  around  are 

groomed  bj   the  simple  Cutex  method: 

In  -r  scrub  the  nails.   I  hen  remove 
the  old,  lifeless  cuticle  and  clean 
neatti  the  nails  with  Cutex  Cuticle  Re» 

mO>  el   Cv    Nail  Cleanser. 

Now  brush  on  your  favorite  shadi  <•! 

brilliant  Cutex  Liquid  Polish. 

End  with  a  touch  of  Nail  White  un- 

dei  the  nail  rip-,  foi  accent     Cutex  Nail 

\\  lute  Pencil  or  Cream. 

After  this  quick  manicure  once  a 
week,  a  few  minutes  each  day  will  keen 
your  nails  flawlessly  lovely.  Just  push 

back  thecutiele;  cleanse  the  nail  tips,  and 


ie  Nail  \\  Kill      Pi  n.  il  01  I 
i   hi  in-  .  .,  .    i    ite>  i  ut h  li-  <  )d 
oi  Cn  am  to  soft*  n  the  i  uti<  Ie. 

Only  Cutes  Liquid  Polish  has 

A  I.I.  these  advantc 

i.  I)ti.  s  smoothly,  quickl) .  in 

2.  N<  m  i  1 1 ...  V 

j,  I. ..Ms  foi  ..in  wholi  week 

4.  S|  .irLli  s  .iU\  a\  s  with  vii 

5.  Comes  in  sturdy  bottli 
Cutex   Manicure   Preparations, 
Cutex  Liquid   Polish  with   Remover, 

HAM  V.ARRIN'  MrwYou  LomoM  Pahu 


"On  the  shimmering  sands  of  the  Lido,  the  slim  while  fingers  of  smart  Italian 
Women  .  .  .  and  lovely  travelers  from  all  over  the  world  .  .  .  wear  the  gem-like 

brilliar.ci      .  J  Polish.  It  makes  finger  tips  flash  like  loz-e'.y  je:-. 

says  Maria  Carelli  Mastrigli,  leading  Br.  R  me. 


Cn  tex  L  iq  u  id  Po  l/'sh 


Tips    the    fingers    with    romance 

ONLY 


35* 


I  enclose  1  :C  for  the  Cutex  Mam      re  Set         'aming 

sufficient   preparations   for  six  complete   manicures. 
lln  Canada,  address  Post  Office  B<  I  treal.) 

NoRTHAM    W'aRRES,    Dcpt.     lQ"6 

1 91  Hudson  Street New  York,  N.  V. 


_ 


Adds  Gloss, 

Lustre - 

Dry,  Dull  Hair 

Leaves  It  Easy  to  Manage 

IF  your  hair  is  dry,  dull  and  difficult  to 
manage,  if  it  lacks  natural  gloss  and 
lustre — all  this  is  very  easily  overcome. 

Just  put  a  few  drops  of  Glostora  in  the 
palm  of  your  hand  and  pat  it  on  your 
hair  before  you  wave  or  comb  it. 

You  will  be  surprised  at  the  result.  It 
will  give  your  hair  an  unusually  rich, 
silky  gloss  and  lustre — instantly. 

Glostora  simply  makes  your  hair  more 
beautiful  by  enhancing  its  natural  wave 
and  color. 

Sets  Hair  Quickly 

It  keeps  the  wave  and  curl  in,  and 
leaves  your  hair  so  soft  and  pliable,  and 
so  easy  to  manage,  that  ....  it  will 
stay  any  style  you  arrange  it  ...  . 
even  after  shampooing — whether  long  or 
bobbed. 

A  few  drops  of  Glostora  impart  that 
bright,  brilliant,  silky  sheen,  so  much 
admired,  and  jour  hair  will  fairly  sparkle 
and  glow  with  natural  gloss  and  lustre. 
A  large  bottle  of 
Glostora  costs  but  a 
trifle  at  any  drug  store 
or  toilet  goods  counter. 
Try  it ! — You  will  be 
delighted  to  see  how 
much  more  beautiful 
your  hair  will  look,  and 
how  easy  it  will  be  to 
wave  and  manage. 


Glostdrdc 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 


Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Richard  Artec 
Jean  Aithui 

Bancroft 
Carman  Barnet 
Clara  Bow 
Mary  Hrian 
Martin  Burton 
Ruth  Cliattcrton 
June  Collyer 
Juliette  Compton 
Jai  kie  <  "<>Kan 
Robert  Coogan 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlene  Dietrich 
Leon  Errol 
Stuart  Erwin 
Stanley  Fields 


Kay  Francis 
SlceeU  Gallagher 
M  it  zi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Marcia  Manners 
Cyril  Maude 
Rosita  Moreno 
Jack  Oakie 
Guy  Oliver 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
Charles  Rogers 
Lilyan  Tashman 
Regis  Toomey 
Fay  Wray 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Luana  Alcaniz 
Michael  Bartlett 
Warner  Baxter 
Joan  Bennett 
Humphrey  Bogart 
Fl  lirendel 
Lucile  Browne 
Robert  Burns 
Joan  Castle 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Joyce  Compton 
Koxanne  Curtis 
Donald  Dillauay 
Fifi  Dorsay 
Charles  Farrell 
John  Garrick 
Janet  Gay  nor 
C.  Henry  Gordon 
Louise  Huntington 
Warren  Hymer 
Keating  Sisters 
Richard  Keene 
Jane  Keith 
Xancy  Kelly 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
James  Kirkwood 
Elissa  Landi 


Dixie  Lee 
Marion  Lessing 
George  Lewis 

Myrna  Loy 
Edmund  Lowe 
Claire  Luce 
Leslie  May 
Jeanette  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 
Frances  McCoy 
Victor  McLaglen 
Una  Merkel 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Lois  Moran 
J.  Harold  Murray 
George  O'Brien 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Gaylord  Pendleton 
Nat  Pendleton 
Rosalie  Rae 
Will  Rogers 
David  Rollins 
John  Swor 
Lee  Tracy 
Spencer  Tracy 
Ruth  Warren 
John  Wayne 
Marjorie  White 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Robert  Ames 
Amos  and  Andy 
Henry  Ar,metta 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Betty  Compson 
Ricardo  Cortez 
John  Darrow 
Claudia  Dell 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Eddie  Foy.  Jr 
Noel  Francis 
Ralf  Harolde 
Hugh  Herbert 


Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Sharon  Lynn 
Everett  Marshall 
Joel  McCrea 
Jack  Mulhall 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Roberta  Robinson 
Lowell  Sherman 
Katya  Sorina 
Ned  Sparks 
Leni  Stengel 
Bert  Wheeler 
Robert  Woolsey 


Warner  Bros.  Studios,  5842  Sunset  Blvd. 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Noah  Beery 
Joan  Blondell 
Joe  E.  Brown 
Anthony  Bushell 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Bebe  Daniel- 
Irene  Delroy 
Robert  Elliott 
Frank  Fay 


John  Halliday 
Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Allan  Lane 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
David  Manners 
Marian  Marsh 
Edward  Morgan 
William  Powell 
Barbara  Weeks 
Jack  Whiting 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ina  Claire 
Ronald  Colman 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 


Al  Jolson 
Evelyn  Lave 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St. 


Richard  Cromwell 

Constance  Cuinmings 
Ralph  Graves 
lack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Margaret  Livingston 


Bert  Lytell 
Dorothy  Revier 
Dorothy  Sebastian 
Miriam  Seegar 
Barbara  Stanwyck 


Culver  City,  Calif. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


William  Bakewrtl 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Edwina  Booth 
John  Mack  Brown 
Lenore  Bushman 
Harry  < 
Joan  Crawford 

1  reapo 
Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Doug] 

Marie  Dressier 
Cliff  Edwards 
Julia  Faye 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
William  Haines 
Neil  Hamilton 
Hedda  Hopper 
Lottice  Howell 
Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Arnold  Korff 
Andre  Luguet 


Ellen  McCarthy 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Robert  Montgomery 
Grace  Moore 
Polly  Moran 
Catherine  Moylan 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Edward  Nugent 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita  Page 
Lucille  Powers 
Marie  Prevost 
Marjorie  Kambeau 
Duncan  Renaldo 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Raquel  Torres 
Lester  Vail 


RKO-Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  and  Russell 
Gleason 


Ann  Harding 
Eddie  Quillan 
Helen  Twelvetrees 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharp* 
Grady  Sutton 
Thelma  Todd 


Universal  City,  Calif. 
Universal  Studios 


Margaret  Adams 
Lew  Ay  res 
John  Boles 
Hoot  Gibson 
Bela  Lugosi 


Charles  Murray 
George  Sidney 
Slim  Summer ville 
Genevieve  Tobin 
John  Wray 


Burbank,  Calif. 

First  National  Studios 


Richard  Barthelmess 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Joe  Frisco 
Walter  Huston 
Fred  Kohler 
Dorothy  Mackaill 


Marilyn  Miller 
Ona  Munson 
Dorothy  Peterson 
James  Rennie 
Otis  Skinner 
Loretta  Young 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Tallulah  Bankhead 
Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Claudette  Colbert 
Norman  Foster 
Miriam  Hopkins 


Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Ginger  Rogers 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrett 
Ed  Wynn 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire,  1212  Gower  St. 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd,  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy.  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Pat  O'Malley.  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson.  1735  Highland  St. 
Ruth  Roland,  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor.  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray.  22  E.  60th  St..  New  York 

William  S.  Hart.  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsv    Ruth    Miller,   808    Crescent   Drive,    Beverly 

Hills,  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 


Photoplay  Magazine  fob  Ji  mk,  l°.H 


Love  cools  when  husband  or 
wife  grows  careless  about  B.o: 


Ni.\  ik  w as  there  another  husband  bo  won- 
derful as  mine,  the  bride  rejoices.  Never 
another  wife  so  lovely,  so  desirable,  he  proudly 
tells  himself.  So  think  every  happy  couple 
on  their  wedding  day. 

Yet  too  often  the  bridal  glamour  fades 
tragically  soon— many  times  because  one  or 
the  other  grows  careless  about  little  t hiinr-. 
They  become  a  little  less  particular  about 
their  clothes— their  persons.  Sometimes  they 
even  let  "B.O."— body  odor—  offend! 

Don't  take  chances 

We  never  notice  "B.O."  in  onr.srlrrs  because 
we  quickly  become  used  to  an  ever-present 


odor.  Yet  pores  constantly  give  off  odor-caus- 
ing waste.  Hotter  weather  increases  the 
danger  of  offending.  Don't  take  chances. 
Lifebuoy  will  keep  you  safe. 

Lifebuoy's  creamy,  antiseptic  lather  —  so 
abundant  even  in  hard  water —  purifies  pores, 
removes  all  odor,  [eaves  you  gloriously  fresh 
and  clean.  Its  pleasant,  extra-clean  scent — 
that  vanishes  as  yon  rinst — tells  you  you're 
safe  from  "B.O." 

A  real  complexion  soap 

(  '.mplexions  thrive  on  Lifebuoy's  gentle,  y.-t 

thorough,  cleansing.  Dull  skins  glow  with 

fresh. heal  thy  radiance.  Adopt  Lifebuoy  today. 

A  product  o/  LEVER  BROTHERS  CO.,  CmMfe  -Vj«. 


Lifebuoy 

HEALTH       SOAP  V 

stops  body  odor 


98 


Photoplay  Macazine  for  Juke,  1931 


"(jyhc'^a/e— The 

Specialist 


adds 

another 

EX- 

to  the  EX- 
STORIES 


A    ***>***, 


A  MEMBER  of  the  cabinet  resigns 
an'  publishes  a  book  under  the 
headin'  of  "Ex-Member.' '  A  woman 
gits  a  divorce  an'  writes  a  book,  callin' 
it  Ex-Slave."  A  man  of  mystery  re- 
tires on  his  millions  an'  writes  the  story 
of  his  life,  namin'  it  Ex-Hijacker." 
The  library  shelves  an'  the  cigar  store 
book  counter  are  piled  with  books 
about  ex-somebody. 

Well  sir,  Elmer  Ridgway  was  talkin' 
to  the  clerk  at  the  drug  store.  "I've 
read  those  ex-books,"  sez  the  clerk  to 
Elmer,  till  I  am  jest  about  ex-hausted. 
My  head  aches,  an  I'm  seein'  spots 
before  my  eyes,  an'  I  11  have  to  git  my- 
self some  glasses  I  ex-pect." 

Maybe  it  ain't  your  eyes,"  sez 
Elmer,  pointin'  to  some  little  blue  tin 
boxes  of  chocolate  tablets  behind  the 
counter  an' sez,  Try  some  of  your  own 
goods  an'  maybe  you'll  feel  **-try 
good." 


ISN'T  it  gratifying  to  know  that  the  laxa- 
tive you  take  has  the  weight  of  medical 
approval  behind  it  ? 

"Those  little  chocolate  tablets" — called 
Ex-Lax  —  are  great  favorites  with  doctors. 
They  know  that  Ex-Lax  is  simply  pure  choc- 
olate, combined  in  the  exclusive  Ex-Lax 
way  with  the  scientific  ingredient,  phenolph- 
thalein,  of  the  right  quality,  in  the  right  pro- 
portion, in  the  right  dose. 

Ex-Lax  is  safe,  gentle,  effective — for  every 
age.  At  all  druggists — 10c,  25c,  and  50c  boxes. 


Keep 


regular     w 


ith 


EX- LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


y-^  y-v     ,--*  j-^  Complete  set  of 

t<  IxiLlL  "CHIC"  SALE  SAYINGS 


and  sample  of  Ex-Lax 


Nam* 

S:rtei  and  Numhtr 


City » Stat* _ 

Mail  this  coupon  to  The  Ex-Lax  CoMDcpt.  PH-61 
P.O.  Box  170,  Times  IMaza  Sta.,  Brooklyn,  N.Y. 


Spinster 

Two  nights  a  week  from  her  pathetic  dole 

She  takes  the  coins  that  buy  her  sheer  romance; 
And,  with  a  movie  palace  for  a  goal, 

Sets  out  with  prim  and  half-averted  glance; 
She  gains  her  seat,  as  noiseless  as  a  mouse, 

And  waits  the  current  lover  of  the  screen, 
Small  lot  she  cares  that  half  the  magic  house 

Is  filled  with  couples  blissful  and  serene. 

The  picture  starts — the  lovely  heroine 

Is  cast  aside,  and  she  is  in  her  place, 
Eyes  wide  aglow,  she  drinks  the  heady  wine 

Of  one  beloved — and  shares  in  each  embrace. 

(The  picture  ends — the  palace  sheds  its  gloom — 

She  falters  out  and  seeks  her  tiny  room.) 

— Don  Wahn 

(From  Waller  Winchell's  column  in  the  New  York  Daily  Mirror) 


Photo*]  w  Magazine  i  <>k  J,  -.1 


99 


t< 


//  back,  

ister— 

we  don't  want  Yellow  Yever  in  our  town!" 


.   armed 

and   ready  to  shoot, 

>•  back. 


IT  was  certain  death  to  go  on,  and  almost 
as  dangerous  to  turn  back.  In  the  rear  lay 
the  lever-ridden  city.  In  front  weregrim-faced, 
determined  men,  armed  and  ready  to  shoot. 

Yellow  fever  had  pounced  on  Memphis  that 
summer  of  1878.  Thousands  of  families  sought 
safety  in  flight,  only  to  he  turned  back  by 
the  implacable  "shotgun  quarantines"  that 
guarded  every  road. 

These  conditions  were  not  peculiar  to 
Memphis  alone.  All  through  the  South  during 
the  nineteenth  cenrurv,  the  first  rumor  ot 
yellow  fever  was  enough  to  drive  people  to 
panic-stricken  flight. 

Today,  thanks  to  modern  sanitation  and 
disinfection, such  scourges  are  controlled.  And 
one  oi  the  chief  weapons  of  medical  science  in 
its  war  on  deadly  diseases  is  "Lysol"  Disinfec- 
tant. For  more  than  forty  years,  "Lysol"  has 
been  a  standby  with  doctors  and  hospitals 


the  world  over.  Tin  \ 
it  whenever  there  is   a 
real  job  of  germ-killing 
to  do — in  the  operating 
room,  the  sickroom,  even  at  childbirth. 

"Lysol,"  when  diluted  according  to  direc- 
tions, is  non-poisonous — yet  all  recommended 
dilutions  are  sure  germ-killers.  In  any  situa- 
tion in  your  own  home  where  you  have  cause 
for  doubt,  play  safe — use  "Lysol."  Use  it 
properly  diluted  wherever  germs  are  apt  to 
lurk — on  wounds,  cuts,  and  human  tissue;  in 
the    household    on    telephones,    doorknobs, 

Iwork,  nursery   furniture,   baby's   I 
and  utensils. 

"Lysol"  is  the  most  economical  disinfectant 
in  the  world,  too.  Every  drop  will  kill  2iX).- 
000,000  bacteria.  A  tablespoonful  diluted 
makes  four  quarts  of  non-poisonous  disinfec- 
tant. Get  a  large  bottle  oi  "Lysol"  from  your 


druggist  today.   It  is  yout  BUI     I  lard 

against  sickness  and  infection.  Meanwhile, 
send   for  "The  'I.   si'   Health   Library"  of 
three  free  booklets:  "Protecting  the  Home 
Against  Disease,"  "Getting  Ready  for  Ba! 
and  "The  Facts  About  Feminine  I! 
Thousands  of  women  have  found  them  in- 
valuable in  the  home.  We  will  send  them 
without  charge,  in  a  plain  envelope,  it 
will  write   Dept.  45A     Lehn   6:   Fink,   Inc., 
Bloomficld,  Nov  Jl  r  - 

"LYSOL"  for  Feminine  Hygiene 
I     r   forty   years,   "Lysol"    Disinfectant 
been  the  standard  antiseptic  depended  upon 
for  feminine  hygiene,  by  women  throughout 
the  world.  When  diluted  according  to  d 
tions,  it  is  absolutely  harmless  to  human 
\  -  t  its  cleansing  and  disinfecting  action  i 
thorough  that  it  kills  harmful  g<  rms  under 
conditions   that   render   many   preparations 
completely  ineffective. 

I.  L.  &F-  Ine 


\ 


"yFI 


Doctors  ind  hospitals  the  world  o»er  depend  on  "Lysol"  Disinfectant  today 


Be  careful'  Counterfeits  of 

Lysol"  are  being  offered. 

Genuine  "Lysoi"  is  in  the 

1  -.■: 

brown   bottle   and  yellow 

Disinfectant 

\ 

carton    marked  "Lysol." 

■ 

IOO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,   1931 


s . 

Spring, 


Youth, 

Love,  Going  Places  and  Doing 
Things  —  Lips  made  eternally 
young  with  Lipstick  Ybry — 
the  very  spirit  of  springtime 
and  youth.  Permanent — 

scented  with  the  "world's  cost- 
liest parfum."  A  shade  for 
every  modern  type. 

Featured  at  best  shops 


Ybry,  Inc.,  Dept.  P-6, 50  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City 

Pleose  send  Inalsize  Ybry  lipstick-    10c  enclosed 

My  hair  is My  eyes  are. 


Name  ... 
Address. 


I'LEASK  PRINT' 


Rules  of  $2,000  Story  Contest 


See  Pages  7 0-7 1 


1.  Stories  must  be  submitted  in  typewrit- 
ing. They  can  be  from  1,000  to  5,000  words  in 
length,  but  must  not  exceed  5,000  words.  All 
stories  should  be  written  on  one  side  of  the 
sheets  of  paper  and  mailed  in  a  postpaid 
envelope  to: 

Judges,  Photoplay  Magazine-Warner  Bros. 

Story  Contest,  221  West  57th  Street, 

New  York  City. 

2.  Stories  should  not  be  submitted  before 
May  15th,  and  the  Contest  will  close  at  mid- 
night on  July  15th. 

3.  Stories  will  be  read,  prior  to  award  of 
prizes,  only  by  the  Judges  of  the  Contest  and 
persons  employed  by  them  for  that  purpose. 
The  Judges  of  the  Contest  will  submit  such 
stories  to  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  the 
Judges  deem  suitable  for  picture  purposes.  Xo 
stories  will  be  returned  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
Contest.  They  may  at  the  option  of  Photo- 
play Magazine  be  destroyed  or  kept  on  file. 

4.  Every  story  must  be  signed  with  the  full 
name  of  the  person  submitting  the  same  and 
must  be  accompanied  by  the  form  or  a  copy  of 
the  form  which  appears  on  this  page,  per- 
sonally signed  by  the  contestant,  together  with 
his  or  her  full  address,  in  which  the  contestant 
agrees  to  the  conditions  set  forth  therein  and 
herein.  These  rules  and  the  form  should  be 
read  carefully  by  contestants  before  submis- 
sion. 

5.  Everyone,  whether  a  subscriber  or 
reader  of  Photoplay  Magazine  or  not,  may 
enter  this  Contest,  except  persons  in  any  way 
connected  with  Photoplay  Magazine  or  War- 
ner Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  their  relatives  or  mem- 
bers of  their  households,  or  anyone  actively 
employed  in  the  production  department  of  any 
other  motion-picture  company. 

6.  The  Board  of  Judges  shall  consist  of 
three  persons  to  be  chosen  by  the  Editor  of 
Photoplay  Magazine.  The  decision  of  the 
Judges  shall  be  final. 

7.  The  winner  of  the  Contest  shall  receive 
$2,000  in  cash.  In  case  of  a  tie  equal  prizes  of 
$2,000  each  shall  be  awarded  to  each  tying 
contestant. 

8.  It  is  the  desire  of  Warner  Bros.  Pictures, 
Inc.,  to  secure  as  many  original  stories  suited 
for  dramatic  purposes  as  is  possible.  It  is  un- 
derstood that  the  Editor  of  Photoplay  Maga- 
zine or  the  Judges  of  this  Contest  will  submit 
to  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  such  stories  in 
addition  to  the  one  selected  as  winner  of  the 
prize  as  they  or  any  of  them  deem  suited  for 
dramatic  purposes.  It  is  understood  that 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  pay  an  equal 
prize  of  S2,000  for  each  such  story,  if  any,  as  is 
so  submitted  to  and  approved  by  it  and  used 
by  it  for  the  production  of  a  motion  picture 
based  wholly  upon  such  story. 

9.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  will  donate 
the  prize  or  prizes  which  Photoplay  Magazine 


will  pay  for  the  winning  story  and  for  such  ad- 
ditional stories,  if  any,  as  may  be  selected  by 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  hereinabove 
mentioned.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc..  will 
be  entitled  to  full  and  complete  rights  of  every. 
nature  for  any  and  all  purposes  throughout  the 
world  in  and  to  all  winning  stories  as  well 
as  to  use  the  name  of  any  successful  contestant 
in  connection  therewith.  Warner  Bros.  Pic- 
tures, Inc.,  may  use  any  winning  story  in  whole 
or  in  part,  alter  the  same,  change  the  title,  and 
require  the  execution  of  any  papers  by  any 
successful  contestant  which  it  deems  necessary 
or  expedient. 

10.  There  is  always  danger  that  contestants 
become  so  convinced  of  the  merit  or  originality 
of  their  own  stories  or  ideas  that  they  are  sus- 
picious when  they  see  something  approximat- 
ing theirs  which  may  come  from  another 
source.  To  avoid  all  questions  of  this  sort  or 
of  any  other  character  whatsoever,  all  con- 
testants must  subn.it  and  will  be  deemed  to 
have  submitted  their  story  or  stories  and  ideas 
upon  the  distinct  agreement  and  understanding 
that  neither  Photoplay  Magazine  nor  Warner 
Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  be  liable  in  any  way 
save  to  pay  such  prize  or  prizes  as  may  be 
awarded  and  that  said  Photoplay  Magazine 
and  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  are  released 
from  any  and  all  Liability  for  any  cause  or  rea- 
son by  each  contestant. 

11.  Every  effort  will  be  made  by  the  Editor 
of  Photoplay  Magazine  and  the  Judges  to 
make  this  Contest  as  fair  and  open  as  possible 
and  to  conduct  it  in  strict  accordance  with  the 
Rules  of  the  Contest.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures, 
Inc.,  will  simply  donate  the  prize  or  prizes  and 
will  be  under  no  obligation  either  legal  or  moral 
to  do  anything  except  to  donate  the  same. 

12.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  not  be 
bound  to  use  any  of  the  stories  even  if  they 
win  prizes  and  shall  not  be  bound  to  produce  a 
motion  picture  from  the  prize  winning  story  or 
any  story  that  may  be  selected  and  paid  for  by 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  aforesaid.  All 
copyrightable  matter  and  all  rights  therein,  in- 
cluding the  copyright  and  the  right  to  secure 
and  renew  the  same,  shall  be  the  property  of 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc. 

13.  Stories  expressed  in  exactly  the  same 
language  or  slight  variations  of  the  same  lan- 
guage, which  would  seem  to  indicate  collusion 
between  different  individuals,  shall  not  be  sub- 
mitted although  any  one  person  may  submit 
stories  based  upon  the  same  central  ideas  but 
having  different  treatments. 

14.  Xo  profane,  immoral,  libelous  or  copy- 
righted matter  shall  be  submitted. 

15.  While  facility  of  writing  and  style  of  ex- 
pression are  not  necessary  to  the  winning  of 
the  prize,  the  clearness  and  specific  quality  of 
the  story  or  idea  will  be  considered. 

16.  Any  single  individual  may  submit  any 
number  of  stories. 


T  1\ /T  T)/^\  Y)  '  I   v   A     rVT'  I   v  This  Coupon  or  copy  of  this  Coupon 
J.  1VA  A    V^/ LV    A    1jl1/N     J.  must  accompany  each  story 


In  submitting  the  accompanying  story  as  a  con- 
testant for  the  cash  prize  offered  by  Photoplay 
Magazine,  I  ajrree  to  all  of  the  terms  and  conditions 
contained  in  the  "Rules  of  the  Contest"  as  pub- 
lished in  said  magazine,  which  terms  and  conditions 
I  acknowledge  I  have  read,  and  in  consideration  of 
the  conduct  of  said  Contest  and  of  my  story  being 
examined  and  considered  in  said  Contest,  I  hereby 
release  said  Photoplay  Magazine,  Photoplay 
Publishing  Co.  and  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc., 
from  any  and  all  claims  or  liability,  present  or 
future,  by  reason  of  any  use  or  asserted  use  thereof, 
in  whole  or  in  part,  in  any  form  or  manner,  by  either 
of  them,  except  from  payment  of  a  prize  if  awarded 
to  me. 

I  state  that  this  story  is  wholly  original  with  me. 


I  hereby  grant  and  assign  this  story  and  all  of 
my  rights  of  every  nature  therein  throughout  the 
world  to  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co.  and  War- 
ner Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  together  with  the  exclu- 
sive right  to  use  same  in  any  form  or  manner,  and 
the  right  to  adapt,  add  to  or  subtract  therefrom, 
without  any  compensation  to  me  or  my  legal  repre- 
sentatives, save  for  a  prize  of  $:,ooo  if  such  prize 
is  awarded  to  me,  pursuant  to  the  "Rules  of  the 
Contest." 


.L.  S. 


Address 


Pbotopi  w  Mac izini    i 01  Ji 


1 1   i 


As  \jL>v-a-o^-aji  as  il  your  /vn**^*^. 


were  o 


n   the   bottl 


B«caus«  of  this 
pdUnt    oil-tub* 
you     can     mdU 
your  own  prescrip- 
tion   for    your    own 
hair. 


With  Packers  Scalpfone  you  make 
your  own  prescripfion  for  your  own  scalp 


"Really?  A  personal  preparation  for 
my  hair?"  Yea  and  ii  -  ■  new  idea 
that's  taken  the  oountrj  by  storm; 
f«»r  it's  such  ■  practical,  Bimple  way  to 

the    scalp    health     winch     mean.--    Iiair 

lovehi 

Isn't  it  only  common  MUM'  thai  no 
one   tonic  just    ih    it    (onus   from    the 

bottle  can  be  good  for  all  types  of 
scalps  and  hair?  Oily  hair  needi  an 
astringent  tonic,  and  drj  hair  needs 
one  arhich  supplies  extra  oiL  To  make 
one  tonic  equally  effective  for  different 

kind-,  of  hair-   that   U  OS  B  problem. 

Hut  now,  whether  your  hair  is  dry,  or 
oily,  you  may  give  it  scientifically 
correct  treatment  at  home;  yet  you 
have  only  to  ask  for  Packer's  Scalp- 
tone  at  the  dnigf 

Mere's  the  reason.  In  the  neck  of 
every  Ixittle  of  Scalptone,  there's  a 
little  tube.    This  tube  contains  a  pure, 

vegetable  oil.   If  your  hair  is  dry,  you 

add  as  much  of  this  oil  to  the  Scalp- 
tone  as  your  particular  scalp  needs- 
there  are  directions  to  guide  you.  If 
your  hair  is  oily,  you  simply  massage 
Scalptone,  just  as  it  comes  in  the  bot- 


tle,   into   your    scalp.     Of   coin 
sensible!    Try    it  and  watch  your  hair 
renew   its  youth! 

A  dermatologist's 
formula 

This  wonderful   new    pnpar.it ion   is  | 

dermatologist' a   formula,   s   scienti6c 

corrective  treatment  for  scalp  prob- 
lems. Regular  massage  with  Scalp- 
tone «  ill  keep  \  our  scalp  \  igorOUSi  and 

healthy  and  young!  You'll  End  your 
hair  becoming  (.lossy,  vibrant,  alive. 

Scalptone  keeps  your  hair  free  from 
those  troublesome  little  flakes  of  worn- 
out  skin  tissue;  and  it's  antiseptic  - 
which  means  it  helps  to  check  dandruff. 

And   here's  a   very   feminine  n 
for  liking  it,   which   1   discovered   my- 
self; hair  that's  treated  with  Scalptone 
regularly    is  easier   to   wave,   and   the 
wave  stays  in  better. 

Your  druggist  doubtless  has  Scalp- 
lone  for  you  by  now  if  not,  send  me 
his  name  and  address,  and  I'll  try  to 
see  that  he  gets  it  to  you. 

JLAN   CARROLL 


PACKER'S      Scalpfone 

Made  by  the  makers  of  Packer's  Tar  Soap 

Hair-beauty    depends    on    scalp-nealfn 


Home  Treatments  for  Hair  Beauty 


oily  hair: 

.Just  as  often  as  your  hair  gets 
oily,  even  if  it's  only  a  few  days 
since  your  last  shampoo,  sham- 
poo again  with  Packer's  Pine  Tar 
Shampoo.  This  shampoo  is  made 
especially  for  oily  hair;  it  will 
leave  your  hair  soft  and  Huffy. 
Then  massage  daily  with  Scalp- 
tone, the  wonderful  new  Packer 
tonic  which  each  user  can  modify 
to  suit  just  her  hair.  If  your  hair 
is  very  oily,  Scalptone  can  be  an 
astringent  tonic  (see  explanation 
above).  It  will  help  restore  the 
oil  glands  to  normal. 

dry  hair: 

Shampoo  every  two  weeks  regu- 
larly with  Packer's  Olive  Oil 
Shampoo.    This  olive  oil  sham- 


poo is  made  especially  for  dry 
hair  It  contains  Soothing,  soften- 
ing glycerine  and  leaves  your  hair 
softer,  easier  to  manage.    Bach 

day  apply  Scalptone  with  good 
vigorous  massage.    Scalptone  is 

the  new  Packer  tonic,  the  first 
tonic  1  ever  heard  of  that  yot 
modify  to  suit  just  your  hair. 
Scalptone,  modified  according  to 
the  very  simple  directions  on  the 
bottle,  will  supply  the  natural  oil 
your  hair  lacks. 

dandruff: 

For  years  Packer's  Tar  Soap  has 
been  the  standard  treatment  for 
dandruff,  and  if  you'll  start  with 
four  daily  shampoos  with  Packer's 

Tar  Soap,  you'll  see  for  yourself 
how  much  dandruff  germs  hate 
pine  tar.    After  these  four  sham- 


poos, ghampoo  every  three  or  four 
days,  then  once  a  week. 

Along  with  Tar  Soap  sham- 
poos, use  Scalptone  the  mar- 
velous new  tonic  which  you  can 
modify  t<>  suit  just  your  hair.   If 

vour  hair   is  dry,    read   the   eaSS 


directions  which   come  with   the 
Scalptone  bottle.     Then  you  can 

make  up  a  simple  prescription  to 
help  you  remedy  over-di 
If  \oiir  hair  is  oily,  you  will  use 
Scalptone  in  an  astringent  form. 
\on'll  find  Scalptone  a  gn  al  h<  lp 
for  vour  dandruff.  Its  antisrptH 
qualities  an-  very  discouraging  to 
dandruff  germs. 

SEND     FOR     SAMPLES 

10.-  for  1;    25C  for  all  3 


For  10f  in  coin  I'll  be  clad  to  »rnd 
you  a  tutmplr  of  cither  of  the  two 
PACKER  Liquid  Shampoo*  or 
the  Tar  Soar.  For  2S»  I  will  tend 
I  mrlcii  of  all  three.  Addren 
Jean  Carroll.  The  Packer  Mfg. 
Co..  In, -..  Dept.  16-F,  101  West 
3 lit  Street.  New  York. 

If  you  want  a  full-iize  bottle  of 
Scalptone,  encloce  $1.00  with 
your  note. 


102 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


•  no  more 

BRITTLE   LFISH6S 
COARS6   LRSHGS 

•  wilh  Uua 

#  Women  commanded 
this  new  product.  "Can't  we  get  an  eyelash 
preparation  that  won't  make  lashes  brittle 
and  stiff — one  that  will  give  a  natural  effect?" 
they  asked. 

Here  is  the  answer:  The  NEW  Liquid 
Winx,  utterly  different  from  anything  you 
may  have  tried.  Different  —  because  it  is  an 
eyelash  preparation  with  a  double  treatment. 
First,  it  beautifies  lashes  by  giving  them  a 
dark,  enticing  shadow.  And  then — it  actually 
sojtens  lashes.  Amazing — but  regular  treat- 
ment with  this  new  Winx  makes  your  lashes 
finer  and  silkier. 

This  "Double  Treatment"  idea  at  last 
gives  smart  women  what  they  want.  Beau- 
tiful  eves — without    fear   of  brittle   lashes. 


The  new  JJ'inx  Willi  Hie  Double  Treat- 
ment) comes  in  two  forms.  Liquid  is  ab- 
solutely waterproof.  Cake  is  no*.'  packed 
in  a  smart,  silvery  compact  which  Jits 
into  tlieflattestbag.  If'inx  iseasy  to  use. 


For 
Lovely 
hashes 


A  Regal  Wedding 
Gown 

For  Any  Princess 


You  don't  need  to  be  a  princess  such  as  Miriam  Hopkins 
is  in  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant"  to  wear  a  gown  like  this. 
It  is  the  sort  of  bridal  dress  that  anyone  might  choose.  I 
particularly  like  the  rather  medieval  air  of  it,  don't  you? 
The  square  neckline  edged  with  pearls,  the  long  sleeves  so 
beautifully  pointed  over  the  hands,  and  the  gracious  sweep 
of  the  skirt  into  a  long  train  are  perfect.  The  fine  silk  lace 
has  a  shimmering  quality.  Note  the  pearl  rope  girdle  at 
the  normal  waistline— and  the  arrangement  of  the  tulle  veil. 


Photopi  \\   Mac  wim    i  01    I 


I  o 


For  ewer  and    ewer 


At  top — Genuine  Orange-Blossom  wedding 
ring,  hand-chasing  on  platinum  Irom  $21.50  .  . . 
on  gold  from  $10. .  . .  Above  — Matched  set, 
engagement  and  wedding  rings.  In    platinum 

$425  ...  in  gold  $250 There  is  a  Traub 

ring  to   fit  your    finger  and  your  pocketbook. 

I  ■"« I  II  I » 


•    No  matter  how  madly  you  re  dashing  about 

these  exciting  days  .  .  .  remember  that  the  choice 

of  your  wedding  ring  is  as  important  as  almost 

anything  else!  The  cretonnes  and  the  linoleum  can   be  changed,  when  you  tire 

of  them,  but  you  will  wear  the  ring  you  buy  now  for  years  to  come. 

•  That  is  why  your  ring  should  be  a  Traub.  Traub  rings  dre  made  to  last,  for 
ever  and  ever.  They  are  seamless  .  .  .  flawless  unbroken  circles  .  .  .  perfect  in 
every  detail  of  workmanship.  They  are  made  with  fine  metals  ...  of  chosen  gems. 

•  Would  you  like  a  band  of  gleaming  platinum,  or  a  modest  gold  circlet?  Both  are 
lovely,  hand-chased  with  the  Orange  Blossom  or  any  one  of  Traub's  beautiful  designs. 
Perhaps  you  prefer  a  diamond  circlet  ...  or  a  modern  squarish  ring,  bevel-edged? 
Choosing   yours   is   great  fun  —  and  every  Traub  ring    is   correct  on  every  count. 

•  Stop  in  to  see  your  jeweler  about  this  weighty  matter.  He  will  show  you  Traub 
engagement  and  wedding  rings.  And  jewelry  stores  are  delightful  places  to  visit 
anyway.  You  II  see  many  other  things  you  simply  must  have  for  the  new  home.  .  .  . 

•  Are  you  wondering  about  your  wedding  —  just  how  to  manage  it  smoothly? 
Write  for  our  little  book,  "Bridal  Etiquette" — it  will  solve  all  your  problems.  Traub  Mfg. 
Co.,  1933  McGraw  Ave. , Detroit,  Mich.,  and  Walkerviile,  Or.t.    t«. 


104 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


"Now... I  can  stand 
the  Public  Gaze 
..Can  You? 

£ 


v_>ritical  eyes . . .  challenging  closeups  .  .  . 
fateful  moments  that  I  once  dreaded. . .  but 
now  .  .  .  with  a  skin  that  is  smooth  and  hair- 
free,  I  can  meet  them  without  the  least  em- 
barrassment. You  can,  too,  because  it  is  so 
easy  to  keep  your  under-arms*,  fore-arms 
and  legs  free  of  disfiguring  hair  when  you  use 

DEL-ATONE 

The  JlTi  its  Cream  Hair-remover 

— now  comes  in  two  sizes 
50c  New Larger   $1 

Here  at  last  is  a  cream  that  removes  hair, 
more  quickly  and  more  thoroughly  than  any- 
thing you  have  ever  used.  Creamy-white, 
DEL-A-TONE  removes  hair  in  three  min- 
utes or  less  .  .  .  Faintly  fragrant,  it  is  just  as 
easy  to  use  as  cold  cream  and  leaves  yourskin 
clean,  smooth  and  white.  *  Removal  of  under- 
arm hair  lessens  /y>.  .  <?/  ,* 
perspiration  odor.   ^p^£  /**My. 


MONEY     BACK     GUARANTEE 

Del-a-tone  has  attained  wide  popu- 
larity on  real  merit  alone.  No 
extravagant,  exaggerated  adver- 
tising claims  have  ever  been  made, 
t  v\j  N  /S.      Superior  quality  is  the  reason  for 
'    v  i '{.  \     asking  you  to  try  it  and  to 
guarantee  that  your  money  will 
be  cheerfully  refunded  if  you 
are  not  satisfied. 

Del-a-tone  Cream,  50c  and  SI  (also  Del-a-tone 
Powder,  SI  size  only)  at  drug  and  department  stores. 
Or  sent  prepaid  in  U.  S.  in  plain  wrapper.  Money 
back  if  desired.  (Trial  tube,  10c — use  coupon  below.) 
Write  Miss  Mildred  Hadley,  the  Delatone  Co., 
(Est.  1908)  The  Delatone  Bldg.,  Dept.  86,  233  East 
Ontario  Street,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

« 1 

Mi^  Mildred  BsdUr,  The  Delatone  Company 

Dept.  Hti.  Delatone  Bid*..  233  E.  Ontario  St.,  ChicaKo,  111. 
Please  send  me  in   plain  wrapper  prepaid,  ffenerous  tube 
of  Del-a-tone  Cream  for  which  I  enclose  10c.  I 

I 
Name - - - i 

Street - . 

City j 


Girls'  Problems 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  16 


occasion  for  them  is  over,  as  every  woman 
knows! 

When  her  anger  had  died  down  and  his 
apology  had  been  grudgingly  accepted,  she  be- 
gan to  admit  to  herself  that  he  might  be  right. 
After  all,  she  had  had  to  work  rather  hard  and 
make  some  effort  to  please  to  hold  her  position 
before  marriage.  What  had  made  her  think 
that  a  home  could  be  run  on  an  entirely  differ- 
ent set  of  principles? 

So  she  started  to  demand  a  little  more  of 
herself,  to  look  upon  housekeeping  as  a  job  in 
which  she  was  expected  to  give  her  husband 
some  of  the  cooperation  she  had  given  her  em- 
ployer. And,  just  as  this  system  had  worked 
out  in  an  office,  it  brought  better  results  in  her 
home. 

T  SUPPOSE  that  the  beginning  of  summer 
■*■  finds  us  all  less  than  ever  in  the  mood  for 
taking  life  too  seriously.  But  I  find  that  the 
lazy,  warm  days  in  which  I  am  less  active  phy- 
sically give  me  more  time  for  mental  inventory. 
And  that  it's  no  more  difficult  to  think  con- 
structively than  destructively,  and  certainly 
less  enervating. 

Maybe  you're  the  kind  of  girl  who  berates 
herself  soundly  for  every  slip  of  the  tongue,  for 
every  small  mistake.  Then  you  don't  need  to 
be  goaded  by  any  outside  force.  But  if  you 
suspect  that  you  are  too  "easy  going,"  too  apt 
to  find  excuses  for  yourself,  better  find  out  if 
that  isn't  the  reason  you  are  not  getting  the 
business  promotion  you  want,  the  coveted  place 
in  club  or  sorority,  or  even  the  invitations  and 
interest  of  the  boy  you  admire. 

Maybe  you  are  too  easy  on  yourself  in  the 
matter  of  appearance.    Maybe  you  think  it  is 


too  much  effort  to  look  well  groomed  in  hot 
weather,  to  worry  about  keeping  your  blouses 
unmussed  and  unsoiled  and  your  skirts  un- 
wrinkled.  Maybe  you  are  careless  about  keep- 
ing engagements  on  time,  about  showing  grati- 
tude for  little  favors.  Maybe  that's  why  you 
are  losing  out. 

Wouldn't  it  be  much  easier  to  be  hard  on 
yourself? 

Claire  : 

If  your  face  is  rather  wide  through  the 
cheek  bones,  like  Claudette  Colbert's,  dress 
your  hair  to  add  length,  rather  than  width. 
Miss  Colbert's  long  bob  is  trained  into  flat  curls 
at  the  ends,  and  no  matter  how  she  changes  her 
style  of  hairdressing,  you  will  notice  she  always 
draws  her  hair  out  around  her  cheeks.  Even 
when,  as  in  "Honor  Among  Lovers,"  she  tucks 
her  hair  behind  her  ears,  she  lets  a  little  of  it 
come  forward  above  the  ear.  It's  an  easy  little 
trick  to  follow,  and  a  flattering  one  to  girls  of 
your  type. 

Sit;: 

I  had  to  read  your  letter  twice  before  I  could 
believe  it!  A  girl  who  wants  to  broaden  her 
hips  is  something  new  under  the  sun.  A  good 
portion  of  my  mail  comes  from  girls,  even 
otherwise  thin  girls,  whose  main  object  in  life 
seems  to  be  the  achievement  of  narrow,  flat 
hips. 

If  you  are  sure  your  hips  are  out  of  propor- 
tion to  the  rest  of  your  body,  there  are  some 
excellent  exercises  in  my  free  booklet  that  are 
designed  to  normalize  the  figure.  If  you  will 
repeat  your  request,  and  enclose  a  stamped, 
self-addressed  envelope  I'll  send  the  booklet 
promptly. 


Ann  Harding  and  her  husband,  Harry  Bannister,  did  not  adopt  a  child, 

as  newspapers  reported.    This  is  a  beautiful  picture  of  the  Bannisters  ani 

their  only  child,    Jane 


Photoplay  Magazini  i<>r  Jim.  1931 


[05 


I  oil  of  thumler  about 
DOKOTin    l.KAINGER! 

■  :tnt  with  helping 
Charley  (ha,e  u.i'hle  in  the 
■■  I  hunJermg    lenor"  at 
the  Hal  Kia.h  sluJi 
utHKOmt  plater  iltpi  into 
a  (  alalina  10  Inlen  It  the 
thunder  of  the  ajio. 


ft  rtf  t- 1  k&»  rJSSrr-* 


«o«d 


.fit',  w 


-  *•»  •f^eA*01 


^ier^r^  «»•  " 


yl  fresh- from-the-camera  lieu 
of  JOAN  CRAWFORD, 
M-G-M  >/<ir,  cooling  off  at 
the  btach  in  a  filching  new 
i  ata/ina  Swim  Suit. 
Joan,  by  iht  way,  Joes  tome 
of  the  final  work  of  her 
career  in  "The  Torch  Song," 
current  M-G-M  release. 


ROBERT  MONTGOMERY. 

u  ho  does  a  lot  to  make  M-G-M's 
•■Shipmates"  the  salty  yarn  it 
is.  believes  in  keeping  his  eyt 
not  only  on  the  ball,  but  on 
the  other  fellow. 


CATM-I.A/A   S^IM.  SV)\TS 


io6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


This  old,  old 

daemfmi  of  the 

MARRIED  WOMAN 


need  never  bother 
her  any  more 

WHAT  a  dilemma  it  has  always  been  for  the 
young  married  woman  .  .  .  this  whole 
question  of  feminine  hygiene!  She  desires,  she 
demands,  the  security  which  can  only  be  pro- 
vided by  real  surgical  cleanliness.  On  the  other 
hand,  some  of  her  friends  advise  her  to  use 
caustic  and  poisonous  antiseptics  for  the  purpose. 
She  is  worried.  She  is  fearful.  And  nobody  can 
blame  her.  The  truth  is  that  such  advice  is  com- 
pletely out-of-date.  It  is  no  longer  necessary  to 
run  the  risks  of  these  poisons. 

Don't  use  poisonous  antiseptics 

Much  as  doctors  approve  of  feminine  hygiene 
itself,  they  do  not  approve  of  the  old-fashioned 
methods  which  included  bichloride  of  mercury 
or  compounds  of  carbolic  acid.  The  germicide 
and  antiseptic  of  today  is  Zonite.  For  Zonite 
offers  great  germ-killing  strength  combined 
with  perfect  safety. 

There  is  no  danger  that  Zonite  will  harden 
delicate  tissues  or  leave  areas  of  scar-tissue. 
Zonite  is  non-caustic  and  absolutely  non-poi- 
sonous. Yet  it  is  jar  more  powerful  than  any  dilution 
of  carbolic  acid  that  may  be  allowed  on  the  body. 

Send  for  women's  booklet 
When  a  woman  reads  "The  Newer  Knowledge  of 
Feminine  Hygiene"  she  stops  worrying.  She 
knows  the  facts — for  this  little  book  is  full  of 
information.  Why  don't  you  send  for  it?  Zonite 
Products  Corporation,  Chrysler  Building,  New 
York,  N.  Y. 


Both  in  U.S.  A. 
and  Canada 


Zonite  has  remarkable  qualities  as  a  deodorant 

ZON'ITE  PRODUCTS  CORPORATION  I'H-16 

Chrysler  Building,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Plcjvc  send  mc  free  copy  of  the  booklet  or  booklets  checked 

below. 

|   |  The  Newer  Knowledge  of  Feminine  Hygiene 

Q  Use  of  Antiseptics  in  the  Home 

Name 

(PUast  print  dj",i) 

Address 

City State 

(In  Canada:  165  Dufferin  St.,  Toronto) 


Hollywood's  Newest  Romance 

[  CONTINUED  PEOM  PAGE  49  ] 


That's  what  William  Powell,  the  un- 
approachable bachelor,  says. 

And  Carole  loves  Bill — make  no  mistake 
about  that.  Even  though  she  doesn't  see  why 
marriage  should  spoil  their  friendship.  They 
phone  each  other  three  times  a  day.  They 
dine  together  each  evening.  He  gives  Carole 
magnificent  gifts.  It  was  a  Cadillac  for 
Christmas.  From  Agua  Caliente  come  huge 
bottles  of  costly  perfume.  For  a  valentine  he 
gave  her  a  cigarette  case  of  jade,  diamond- 
studded — on  Easter  a  cigarette  case  and 
match-box  to  match.  Since  they  met,  a  year 
ago,  they  have  not  been  three  days  apa.t. 
Love? 

But  the  lovers  did  have  one  quarrel. 

TT  was  Carole's  fault.  She  told  Bill— "I 
-*-want  to  be  alone  for  two  days — not  to  see 
you."     She  didn't — and  Hollywood  seethed. 

It's  an  uneventful  romance,  this  love  story 
of  Bill  Powell  and  Carole  Lombard.  They  are 
more  like  a  happy  married  couple  than  any 
married  couple  in  Hollywood.  They  under- 
stand each  other — they  placidly  enjoy  each 
other's  company,  and  don't  try  to  conceal  it. 

But  they  do  love  each  other,  in  the  fullest 
and  most  beautiful  sense  of  the  word.  Carole 
says  Bill  is  a  darling,  and  means  it — she  calls 
him  "Junior,"  and  she  says  he  is  the  most 
wonderful  man  she  has  ever  known.  And  Bill 
— oh,  he  calls  his  sweetheart  what  men  have 
called  their  beloveds  since  time  began. 

But  in  the  heart  of  all  love  there  is  a  canker 
of  sadness. 

There  is  one  in  the  romance  of  William 
Powell  and  Carole  Lombard. 


Powell  is  thirty-eight — his  sweetheart  is  only 
twenty-two.  How  often  this  tragic  problem 
has  been  faced  by  lovers'  For  to  them  age — 
mere  years — is  no  respecter  of  persons! 

For  instance,  when  Carole  is  thirty-two,  a 
grand  age  for  a  woman,  Bill  will  be  forty- 
eight.  Not  old,  but  well  on  the  way  to  middle 
life,  when  "the  heydey  of  the  blood  is  tame." 

Carole  Lombard,  being  no  fool  and  no 
creature  of  impulse,  knows  this.  How  could 
she  help  but  be  aware  of  it? 

"Life  becomes  really  interesting  when  you 
have  passed  thirty.  Young  girls  are  really 
silly — they  have  no  background  for  happiness. 
At  thirty,  one  has  understanding — a  back- 
ground to  make  life  interesting. 

"Bill  wants  to  travel — he  wants  an  interest- 
ing, friendly  person  to  travel  with.  I'm  not 
ready  to  travel.  I  have  to  concentrate  on  my 
career.  When  I  can't  go — and  he  wants  to 
go  certain  places — he  can't  seem  to  under- 
stand— now.    And  if  we  were  married — " 

Carole's  voice  trails  off.  It's  a  sad  little 
story — no  less  sad  because  it's  old.  Love 
which  should  have  come  to  him  when  he  was 
younger — love  which  should  have  burst  upon 
her  heart  when  she  was  older — more  settled, 
more  satisfied. 

"D  OTH  are  strong  characters.  One  may  con- 
-'-'quer  at  any  moment.  Who  can  foretell 
the  outcome? 

In  the  meantime — William  Powell  and 
Carole  Lombard  love  each  other.  And,  like 
all  love  stories,  the  issue  is  on  the  lap  of  the 
gods.  Only — let  us  wish  them  well,  and  much 
happiness. 


Photoplay  announced  exclusively  the  secret  marriage  of  Irene  Dunne 

of  "Cimarron"  fame,  and   Dr.  D.  F.  Griffin  of  New  York.     Here  they 

ere  vacationing  at  Miami  Beach,  Fla. 


Photon  n  M  ioazini   i  oi  Ji  nk,  1931 


[07 


To  cuutiAj&tl 

LOVE! 


Men  found  Nan  a  sympathetic 

friend  .  .  .  they  confided  in  her 

their  love  for  Vivienne,  for  Mabel 

or  Lois.    She  herself  had  never  hud  a 

proposal! 


But  tonight  there  was  something  intense 
about  Steve,  as  they  sat  there  lightly  chatting. 


Pompeion  Toiletries  include: 
Beauty  Powder      Powder  Compact  Dusting  Powder 
Bloom  (Rouge)     Night  Cream  Massage  Cream 

Indelible  LipstickDay  Cream  1  ale 

Each  is  priced  at  60c  (.Talc,  25c) 


His  voice  had  lost  the  usual  casual  note 

•  .  .  his  arm  trembled  as  he  drew  her 
toward  him. 

''Nan,  dear,  you've  changed  so.  Your 
eyes  and  your  hair  have  such  strange, 
mj  Serious  lights  .  . .  your  skin  is  like  a 
sun-warmed  rose  .  .  .  your  lips  are  a 
tropic  night!" 

Nan  felt  a  warm  flood  of  color  mount 
from  her  throat  to  her  temples!  This 
was  what  it  was  like  to  awaken  love,  to 
change  men  from  friends  to  poets! 

•  It  was  the  same  Nan 

The  same  girl  but,  to  the  eye,  a  miracle 
might  have  taken  place.  The  lifeless 
skin  had  vanished  ...  an  opalescent  film 
of  Pompeian  Beauty  Powder  (in  Rachel 
tone) — a  light  veil  of  Pompeian  Bloom, 
a  creamy  rouge  (in  dusky  Oriental  tone) 
— the  vivid,  living  color  of  a  new  in- 
delible Pompeian  Lipstick,  all  had 
quickened  her  to  arresting  beauty. 

•  Your  skin  may  be  brought  to 
undreamed  of  loveliness 

Pompeian  toiletries  are  unlike  all  others. 
Of  the  finest  ingredients  that  can  be 
bought,  they  are  so  skillfully  blended 


that  for  your  skin  —  for  every  skin — there 
is  a  vital,  enhancing  color  scheme. 

You  will  find  that  the  powder,  rouge 
and  lipstick  will  do  for  your  skin  what 
Pompeian  did  for  Nan.  And,  because  so 
many  millions  of  women  insist  each  year 
upon  Pompeian,  the  price  is  unbelievably 
low.  The  use  of  Pompeian  means  a  sub- 
stantial saving — a  saving  which  may  readily 
add  smart  new  dancing  slippers,  an  array 
of  silk  stockings  to  your  wardrobe. 

•  Pompeian  is  sold  everywhere 

Go  to  your  nearest  drug  or  department  store  todav 
and  select  Pompeian  toiletries  for  jour  individual 
coloring.  \X  iih  the  htv  hrst  trial.  >  ou  will  observe 
a  new.  glowing  youtlilulncss  in  your  skin.  Charming, 
generously  packaged  powder,  rouge  and  lipstick 
are  only  60c  each.  (10c  sires  of  Pompeian  Powder 
and  Creams  arc  available  at  10c  stores.) 

•  The  newest  Art  Panel— and  the 
loveliest 

The  latest  Pompeian  Art  Panel,  cxquisitelr  painted 
*jj  cvpensnelv  reproduced  will 
add  beauty  and  color  to  your  walls. 
Sent  you  upon  receipt  of  the  coupon 
properly  tilled  in. 


P0MP6IAN 

POWDER,       ROUGE       and       LIPSTICK 


j    M  me.  .Teanoertc  de  Cordet, 
|   DePL  16-6, 

Pompeian  Laboratories, 

Elmira,  N.  V. 

|       I  enclose  10c  (coin)  for  the  Art 

j    Panel  and  a  copy  of  booklet"  Your 

Type  of  Beauty."   Include  the 

samples  of  Pompeian  Day  Cream 

and  Night  Cream. 


N"ame_ 


Street  Address_ 


I    Cltv. 


.State. 


(Canada — 10  McCaul St.,  Toronto/ 


io8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


-HY     DO 


A    MILLION 


WOMEN    USL 


1.  BECAUSE  it  stops  odor  instantly. 

2.  BECAUSE  you  can  use  it  any  time. 

3.  BECAUSE  there's  no  "drying"  delay. 

4.  BECAUSE  it  does  not  irritate  the  skin. 

5.  BECAUSE  it  does  not  injure  fabrics. 

MODERN  women  know  they  must  use 
special  weapons  against  that  tricky 
old  enemy,  underarm  perspiration  odor. 

Today,  they  have  their  choice  of  a 
number  of  safeguards.  And  more  than  a 
million  of  them  choose  Mum! 

Think  of  a  magic  snowy  cream  which 
you  can  use  any  time  when  dressing  or 
afterwards.  There  is  nothing  in  Mum  to 
harm  your  clothing  or  irritate  your  skin! 

No  difficult  directions  to  follow;  no 
waiting.  Just  a  fingertipful  to  each  under- 
arm— and  there's  no  more  need  to  worry 
for  that  day  or  evening. 

Mum  doesn't  interfere  with  normal, 
healthful  perspiration.  It  just  destroys 
that  disagreeable  odor  which  every 
careful  person  so  abhors.  It's  so  soothing 
you  canevenuse  Mum  right  after  shaving! 

And  here's  another  way  Mum  helps. 
Rubbed  on  the  hands,  it  kills  every 
lingering  trace  of  onions,  fish,  gasoline 
or  other  clinging   odor! 

You  can  get  Mum  at  any  toilet  goods 
counter,  35c  and  60c.  Mum  Mfg.  Co., 
Inc.,  80  Varick  St.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
Canadian  address:  Windsor,  Ont. 

ON  SANITARY  NAPKINS.  Mum  also 
gives  invaluable  service  to  women  as 
a   deodorant    for    the    sanitary    napkin. 


4 


A   Lovely  June   Bride" 
Votes   Seymour 

If  fashion  prizes,  like  literary  ones,  were  awarded  once  a  month, 
I  would  cast  my  vote  for  Marguerite  Churchill  as  one  of  the  best. 
When  you  see  her  like  this  in  "Quick  Millions" — note  these  smart 
details.  Her  classically  simple  gown  is  crepe  Roma,  a  perfect  choice 
for  Summer  weddings  because  it  is  semi-sheer.  Her  long  train  is  part 
of  the  skirt — her  sleeves  smartly  stop  just  below  the  elbow.  I  would 
have  chosen  gloves  to  meet  the  sleeves.    The  cap  effect  of  the  tulle  veil 


ch 


arming,  isn  t  it. 


i^&UsrrisO-uSl^ 


Photopi  w  M\i.\/im   roa  Jum     1931 

^  -  • 

811      ' 


V^ ,tOO  slender  jyreeions  hands 
llicd  mean  so  much 


I    l><) 


lhf  rings  illustrated  nrc 

18-karat  while  gold.  I  he 

diamond*   arc    fine    hluc- 

whitc  \\  csscltons. 


\\  rite-  for  a  free  copy  of 

I  hi'    I.ovcr  «    Lament, 

and    the    name    of    your 

nearest  Wood  jeweler. 


l  mi  ve  dreamed  about  these  rin<js. an d, now  the  dream 
has  tOBM  true,  think  well  before  you  choose.  You  must 
know  beyond  the  cjuestion  of  a  doubt  that  the  rings  you 
choose  will  be  always  beautiful  — always  fine.  You  will 
be  sure,if  youchoose  Rings  by  Wood,  the  House  of  Rinys 


for  ci'jhty  years.  You  will  find  style  as  smart  as  your 
bridal  gown,  exquisite  craftsmanship,  values  that  are 
true.  Look  at  the  rings  in  matched  designs  shown  here, 
i  ou  can  see  all  the  newest  \\  ood  designs,  at  reliable  jew- 
elers, everywhere.  Re  sure  TOO  ask  for  Rings  by  \\  ood. 


h 


RINGS  A¥OOD 


•->> 


J.  K.  \\  ood  oV;  Sons,  Inc..  (_  rcators  of  r  ine  Ring*  for  81    1  car* 
15  Maiden  Lane,  New  ^  ork  ■  Paris  •  Amsterdam  •  C  hicago  •  Brooklyn 

W  edding  Rings  •  Diamond  Rings  •  Diamond  C  i relets  •  Stone  Rings  •  Signet  Rings 


I  IO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


Treat  that 
sensibly 

Why  tolerate  a  throbbing  corn  ...  or 
let  feet  that  are  charming  turn  clumsy 
Avith  pain  .  .  .  when  relief  is  simple, 
swift,  waiting  for  you  at  any  drug 
store?  Buy  and  apply  Blue-jay,  even 
at  the  last  minute,  and  know  that 
neither  misery  nor  humiliation  will 
haunt  your  evening. 

Blue-jay  stops  the  pain  and  starts  its 
gentle,  safe,  certain  frea/mpntinstantly. 
A  ring  of  velvety  felt  circles  the  corn 
and  protects  it  from  pressure  and 
friction.  The  mild  Blue-jay  medica- 
ment softens  and  separates  it  for  easy 
removal. 

On  or  off  in  20  seconds.  Bath-proof, 
invisible  in  use.  Made  by  a  house 
famous  for  surgical  dressings.  At  all 
druggists,  25  cents.  (In  Canada,  35 
cents.) 

BLUE-JAY 

CORN    PLASTERS 


BAUER  &  BLACK 


DIVISION     OF    THE     KENDALL     COMPANY 
Chicago      .      .      New  York      .       .      Toronto 

Do  you  know  Protect-O-Pads,  smart 
new  members  of  the  famous  Blue-jay 
family  of  foot  comforts?  These  trim  oval 
shields,  hollow-centered,  velvet-soft  yet 
tough,  guard  tender  spots  and  prevent 
corns,  calluses,  blisters.  Ask  your  drug- 

g'st — or  send  10c  for  samples  to  Bauer  & 
lack.  2528    So.  Federal  St.,  Chicago. 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 

ED  FROM  PACE  80  ] 


IN*  Hollywood,  apparently,  they'll  do  any- 
thing for  a  laugh — or  a  swim.  This  is  the 
story  being  told  about  a  certain  writer  who 
went,  by  invitation  given  some  weeks  before, 
to  the  home  of  a  friend  at  Malibu.  Imagine  his 
chagrin  when  he  found  the  house  closed  and  a 
real  estate  man  outside  who  said,  "You  can't 
go  in  there.   The  place  is  for  sale." 

"  But  I  was  invited  down  to  swim,"  the 
writer  insisted. 

"  I  say  you  can't  go  in.  The  place  is  for  sale." 

"How  much?"  said  the  writer,  pretty  mad 
by  now.    The  real  estator  told  him. 

"  Here,"  said  the  writer,  handing  him  a  check 
for  the  amount,  "now  open  up  that  house  and 
let  me  change  into  my  bathing  suit!" 

WELL,  Edmund  Lowe's  predic- 
tion, made  when  Robert 
Coogan  was  born,  has  come  true — 
with  five-year-old  Bobbie's  new  con- 
tract with  Paramount.  Eddie  said, 
"The  Coogans  have  brought  in  a 
new  gusher." 


N 

well. 


OW  here's  a  nice  cry  for  you  some  day 
when  everything  is  going  just  too  doggone 


Just  sit  down  and  contemplate  those  three 
perfectly  swell  actors  who  made  "The  Big 
Parade"  the  poignant  lovely  thing  it  was. 

The  three  were  Jack  Gilbert,  Karl  Dane,  and 
Tom  O'Brien.  Jack — well,  you  know  all  about 
him.  Dane  has  been  playing  in  pretty  bad 
comedies  pretty  infrequently ,  and  Tom  O' Brien , 
reduced  to  quickies,  still  advertises  in  various 
casting  directories  that  he  was  the  famous 
Bull  of  "The  Big  Parade." 

And  Renee  Adoree  is  in  a  sanitarium. 

BOBBY  JONES  is  delighted  with 
retakes  in  making  pictures. 
"All  my  life,"  he  told  a  writer  the 
other  day,  "I've  been  wishing  I  could 
make  some  of  my  shots  over  again." 


T\TO  matter  what  way  you  may  look  at  it, 
■*-  ^  it's  still  a  funny  business — this  movie- 
making. 

For  instance,  John  Boles  was  originally  put 
on  contract  by  Universal  because  of  not  so 
much  his  good  looks  as  his  good  voice.  So  they 
had  him  sing  and  sing. 

Then  musicals  "went  out,"  as  Hollywood 
believes,  and  they  put  John  Boles,  the  singer, 
into  the  leading  role  in  "Seed,"  wherein  he 
doesn't  sing  a  note. 

And  now  they're  talking  about  "bringing 
musicals  back!" 

Is  there  XO  reason? 

RICHARD  CROMWELL,  who 
brought  "Tol'able  David"  to  the 
talkies,  was  sitting  next  to  a  motion 
picture  magazine  writer  at  luncheon. 

"Tell  me,"  he  asked  wistfully, 
"how  many  pictures  do  you  have  to 
make  before  a  writer  asks  you  for 
your  love  secrets?" 

There's  a  boy  who's  going  to  know 
when  he's  arrived,  let  a  writer  tell 
you! 

A  XXA  MAY  WONG,  the  Los  Angeles  Chi- 
■*  *■  nese  girl  who  has  made  stagehits  in  London 
and  Xew  York,  is  studying  Chinese. 

Anna's  being  signed  by  Paramount  came  as 
a  surprise — until  we  discovered  there  are  three 
pictures  with  big  Chinese  female  parts  sched- 
uled for  this  next  year. 

"Daughter  of  the  Dragon"  is  the  first,  and 
it  probably  will  go  into  production  before  you 
read  this. 

"pOR  the  first  time  in  his  half-century  on  the 
*-  stage  and  screen,  Veteran  Joseph  Cawthorn 
had  to  play  the  role  of  an  intoxicated  man.  It 
was  in  a  picture  he  did  for  Radio  Pictures. 
And  forthwith,  he  began  to  learn  the  vagaries 
of  censorship. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  1 14  ] 


Recognize  the  three  bartending  boys  who  are  just  about  to  toss  off  a 
couple  of  fingers  of  ginger  ale?  Reading  from  left  to  right,  they  are  Owen, 
Tom  and  Matt  Moore — just  as  they'll  look  in  the  Hollywood  Masquers' 
first  film  comedy,  "Stout  Hearts  and  Willing  Hands."  The  three  Moores 
are  among  the  hundred  well-known  picture  actors  who'll  appear  in  the 
comedy — which  is  said  to  be  funny  enough  to  melt  a  traffic  cop's  heart 


Photoplay  Magazini   fob  Jim,  1931 


i  i  i 


TITAN  STAR  OF  "CIMARRON"  SWEEPS  TO  NEW 
HEIGHTS  IN  ANOTHER  GREAT  ACTING  ROLE! 


ii 


BORN  TO  THE  RACKET 

From  the  Tumultuous  Panorama  of  Empire  thatwas  "Cimarron",  RICHARD  DIX  returns  to 
newTriumphsasthe  Hero  of  REX  BEACH'S  Stirring  Story  "Big  Brother"..  .A  Robin  Hood 
Racketeer  in  the  Fantastic  Tapestry  of  New  York's  Underworld!  Great  Actor!  Great  Star! 
The  World  will  Cheer  his  Superb  Portrayal  of  this  Fearless  Fighter  and  Courageous  Lover! 


R    K.    O 


Watch  for  this  and  other  great  RKO 
RADIO  PICTURES  Now  Playing:  "White 
Shoulders"  with  Jack  Holt  and  MaryAston 
"The  No  Girl",  a  Gorgeous  Technicolor 
Production. 


a    n    i    rr 


PICTURES 

W-6 


"Laugh  and  Get  Rich"  with  Edna  May 
Oliver  and  Dorothy  Lee:  Wheeler  and 
Woolsey  in  "Crocked  Nuts";  Lowell  Sher- 
man and  Irene  Dunne  (  glamorous  "Sabra" 
of   Cimarron),  in  "Bachelor  Apartment." 


I  C  T  U   R 


I  12 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


You  Thrilled 


to 


These  two  girls  live, 
work  and  love  in  a 
skyscraper.  The  men 
they  associate  with 
supply  abundant 
chances  for  romance 
—and  heartache.  You 
know  how  people 
poured  into  the 
talkies  to  see  Faith 
Baldwin's  ''Office 
Wife."  Her  new 
Cosmopolitan  serial, 
"Skyscraper,  "is  even 
more  exciting. 


Now  Thrill  to 

"Skyscraper" 


PbOTOFI  U    M  \«.\/im     i  (■    Ji  KB,    I 


I   I 


"Office  Wife" 

by  Faith 
Baldwin 


This  is 

LYNN   HARDING, 

Business  Girl 

wh  o  m  efts  Je  n  n  it  LeG  ra  n  de 
in  the  Seacoast  skyscraper 
a  ndsees  life  as  h  er  room  mate 


The  career  of  viva- 
cious Lynn  Hard- 
ing reflects  the 
lives  of  countless 
girls  caught  by 
the  glamour  and 
adventure  of  1931 
Manhattan.  Her 
story  will  be  the 
talk  of  offices  and 
homes  for  months 
to  come.  It  starts 
for  you  in  June 
Cosmopolitan. 


A  New  Novel  by    Hemt's  International 


the  author  of 
"Office  Wife"  in 


comtnntd  "With 


June 


Dobtan 

Now  on  Sale 


A  CLASS  MAGAZINE  WITH  MORE  THAN  1,700,000  CIRCULATION 


ii4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


WONDERfUL 
BUI   POWDER 
Sl\\\  0\  LONGER 

You  will  love  MELLO-GLO  because 
it  stays  on  longer.  Unsightly  shine  is 
banished.  No  dry  or  flaky  appear- 
ance. No  "drawn"  feeling  or  irrita- 
tion. Just  exquisite  rose-petal 
beauty,  that  feels  as  fresh  and  lovely 
as  it  looks.  MELLO-GLO  Face  Powder 
prevents  large  pores  and  coarse  skin 
texture. 

Beautiful  women  use  MELLO-GLO, 
because  a  new,  exclusive  French 
process  makes  this  the  finest  and 
purest  face  powder  known. 

Sifted  through  close-meshed  silk, 
MELLO-GLO  spreads  with  amazing 
smoothness.  Its  odor,  delicately  fra- 
grant. One  natural  shade  that  blends 
perfectly  with  any  complexion,  be- 
stowing upon  your  skin  a  fresh,  clear, 
youthful  bloom. 

If  you  wish  to  possess  and  retain 
a  girlish  complexion,  insist  on 
MELLO-GLO.  One  dollar  at  all  stores. 

For  fine,  dry  or  sensitive  skin,  ask 
for  new  light-weight  MELLO-GLO  in 
blue-edged  box. 

Canadian  Agents,  Lyman  Agencies,  Limited, 
Montreal 

MELLO-GLO  COMPANY       (DepL  52) 
Statler  Bids..  Boston,  Mass. 

Please  find  10  cents  enclosed.  Send  me 
sample  of  MtLLO-GLO  face  Powder. 

Name 

Address 

Kindly  write  here  name  of  ycur  favorite  store: 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  110  ] 


For  instance,  in  one  state  it  is  all  right  to 
show  a  man  drunk,  but  the  censors  will  not  let 
him  hiccup! 

So  Cawthorn  had  to  shoot  the  scene  twice — 
hiccuping  in  one,  and  then  not  hiccupinj/  for 
the  anti-hiccup  state. 

T  1FE,  as  some  one  once  said,  is  like  that.  Or 
■"rather,  like  this.  Hilding  Johnson,  the 
Chicago  Herald-Examiner  reporter,  whose 
counterpart  in  "The  Front  Page"  is  thrilling 
movie  audiences  the  country  over,  was  getting 
sixty-five  dollars  a  week  when  he  died  recently, 
still  sticking  at  his  post  in  the  pressroom  of 
the  Criminal  Court. 

He  died  a  few  days  before  the  picture  opened 
and  never  saw  it. 

Vet,  Ben  Hecht  and  Charlie  MacArthur, 
who  Actionized  and  dramatized  Johnson's 
hard-boiled  newspaper  exploits,  made  a  fortune 
out  of  them  on  stage  and  screen. 

And  Pat  O'Brien,  who  plays  the  role  of  the 
super  news-getter,  earned  more  for  his  few 
weeks'  work  than  the  original  Hildy  made  in 
two  years. 

AND  while  we're  in  the  Life's  Little  Ironies 
Department  there's  the  case  of  Joseph 
Kilgour,  veteran  stage  and  screen  character 
actor.  In  thirty-five  years  of  acting  he  prob- 
ably played  more  millionaire  roles  than  any 
other  actor  in  America.  Today,  broken  in 
health  by  the  death  of  his  wife  and  his  fortune 
swept  away  by  the  Wall  Street  crash,  he  is  in 
the  Percy  G.  Williams  Home  for  Aged  Actors 
at  East  Islip,  L.  I. 

WELL,  Chaplin's  grand  tour  of  the  Old 
World  was  like  nothing  that  had  ever 
happened  before  to  a  picture  star — not  even  to 
Doug  and  Mary,  those  inveterate  grand  tour- 
ers. 

Everywhere  it  was  the  same — London, 
Paris,  Berlin,  Budapest.  Riding  on  the  tops  of 


automobiles,  battling  with  a  smile  to  get  in 
and  out  of  railway  stations  and  hotels.  Prob- 
ably the  climax,  for  the  little  grey  comic,  was  a 
magnificent  luncheon  in  Paris,  given  by  Aris- 
tide  Briand,  famous  cabinet  member.  Then 
came  the  presentation  of  the  red  rosette  of 
The  Legion  of  Honor — a  tribute  never  before 
paid  a  foreign  motion  picture  star. 

The  whole  trip  was  a  succession  of  mad 
ovations. 

JOHN"  WAYNE'S  free-lancing  now.  The  big, 
J  husky  and  handsome  boy  who  was  plucked 
from  obscurity  in  the  property  department  to 
play  the  lead  in  "The  Big  Trail,"  has  been 
dropped  from  the  Fox  contract  list. 

Big  John  played  in  two  other  Fox  pictures 
after  his  debut.  But  they  evidently  caused  no 
public  singing  and  dancing  in  the  streets.  And 
now  Wayne's  on  that  other  big  trail — from 
studio  to  studio. 

SOMEBODY  asked  Robert 
Benchley,  humorist  and  dramatic 
critic,  what  he  thought  of  the  talkies. 
"Well,"  said  Bob,  "I  don't  believe 
they'll  ever  replace  the  horse." 

WERE  the  photographers  amazed  at  the 
last  Mayfair  party?  The  always  gracious 
Hedda  Hopper  refused  to  have  her  picture 
taken. 

And  Hedda  has  never  yet  refused  to  have 
her  picture  taken.   She  had  a  good  reason. 

Hedda  had  been  to  an  "exclusive"  shop  and 
she  had  bought  an  "exclusive"  gown. 

But  when  she  arrived  at  the  party  she  found 
two  other  prominent  stars  wearing  the  same 
gown. 

They  were,  of  course,  in  different  colors,  but 
in  a  picture  they  would  look  the  same. 

The  other  two  ladies  had  already  been  pho- 
tographed. 

And  that's  why  Hedda  refused. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE  116] 


Is  the  famous  Chevalier  smile  a  little  forced  here?    Yours  would  be  if 

you  were  in  his  spot.     It  seems  that  the  slaps  Miriam  Hopkins  and 

Claudette  Colbert  exchange  in  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant"  are  a  bit  too 

lusty !    Tut,  tut  ladies — not  jealous? 


PBOTOPLAI    M\<.»/im.    rOB   Jim.,    1931 


>'5 


Hearts 
will  throb- 
Blood 
wil      race- 


,tvv  r* 


Eyes    will    fill 
with    tears! 

THE  WORLD  WAS  TOO  SMALL . . 

Only  God's  Limitless  Sky  Was  Big  Enough 
For  This  Mighty  Drama  ! 

DIRIGIBLE!  Giqantic  challenge  to  the  elements  •  •  ■ 
forged  by  the  hand  of  Man!  Cleaving  with  its  silver 
sheath  the  forbidden  world  of  hurricane  rising  above 
the  earth  . . .  and  in  the  ears  of  the  super-men  spinning 
its  treacherous  helm  comes  the  roar  of  motors  like  the 
thunder  of  heaven  defied  ...  a  sinister  reminder  that 
the  silver  wings  on  their  brave  breasts  mean  "eagle" 
*«  .  or  in  one  moment  of  flashing,  blinding  holocaust 
..."angel"' 


COLUMBIA'S 

LEVIATHAN 

OF     THE 

AIR! 


with 


JACK  HOLT 
RALPH   GRAVES 


and    FAY    W R AY 


Frcwn  tne  itory  by 
It.    Comdr.    Fnnlc    W,lb«r    Wet  J.    U  S  N. 


A     Frank     Cipn     Production 


Ad.pKtion  and  Di.lojue 
by   Jo   Svtrlinj 


ASK    YOUR    THEATRE    MANAGER    WHEN    IT    WILL    BE    SHOWN 


i6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


IVORY  SNOW 

~      gives  silks 

through    gentle    Ivory   suds 

LJxSh  oXxaS  Ln^TtwXxM 

When  you  just  look  at  Ivory  Snow,  you  know  it  will  protect  delicate 
silks,  fine  woolens.  Ivory  Snow  is  snowy-white,  of  course.  Every 
tiny  Snow-pearl  is  pure  Ivory  Soap  and  so  very  thin  that  it  turns 
into  gentle  Ivory  suds  the  moment  water  touches  it.  Even 
lukewarm  water! 

Now — no  waiting  for  hot  water.  No  "beating  up"  suds.  No  cooling 
of  hot  suds.  (And  you  know  how  hard  it  is  to  guess  at  the  safe  tern' 
perature  for  silks  and  woolens  after  you've  been  whisking  up  hot  suds.) 

Ivory  Snow  is  quick,  handy  and  very,  very  kind  to  fine  things. 
A  big  box  for  15^. 


lew! 


■woolen 


manufacturers  agree 


"A  perfect  soap  for  silks,"  say  Mal- 
linson,  Cheney  Brothers  and  Truliu. 
"The  ideal  soap  for  woolens,"  say  the 
weavers  of  the  fine  Biltmore  Hand- 
woven  Homespuns,  the  makers  of  the 
downy  Mariposa  blankets  and  the 
Botany  Worsted  Mills,  leading  woolen 
manufacturers. 


Cal  York's  Monthly 

Broadcast  from 

Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  1 14  ] 

rT'HE  "happy  ending"  seems  to  have  come  to 
-*■  an  unhappy  ending.  Maybe  the  film  critics 
panned  it  to  death — but  the  fact  remains  that 
at  one  time,  they  were  shooting  on  the  Warner 
Bros. -First  National  lot  alone,  seven  pictures 
whose  ending  deviated  completely  from  the 
one-time  "must"  rule  for  the  happy  ending — 

In  "Svengali,"  both  Barrymore  and  the 
heroine  die  at  the  finish. 

In  "The  Maltese  Falcon,"  the  lead — Bebe 
Daniels — goes  to  jail — and  her  lover  phones  a 
sweetie  for  a  date. 

In  "The  Public  Enemy,"  the  ending  is  dou- 
ble death,  and  gruesome  at  that. 

In  "The  Finger  Points,"  Barthelmess  is 
killed. 

In  "Smart  Money,"  Edward  G.  Robinson 
dies  at  the  finish. 

In  "The  Mad  Genius,"  Barrymore  goes  to 
another  unhappy  ending. 

In  "Upper  Underworld,"  the  leading  man  is 
killed.  Or  there's  an  alternative  version — his 
daughter  dies.  As  this  is  written  they  hadn't 
decided  which  was  unhappier. 

TS  there  a  strange  and  direful  jinx  on  those 
-•-who  played  in  Cecil  De  M  Die's  great  and 
reverent  screen  drama,  "King  of  Kings"? 

Certain  of  Hollywood's  more  superstitious 
souls  think  there  is. 

Attention  has  been  called  to  it  again  by  the 
recent  deaths  of  Robert  Edeson,  the  Apostle 
Matthew,  and  James  Neill,  who  played  James. 
People  point  to  other  tragic  happenings  that 
followed  in  the  trail  of  the  big  picture. 

Shortly  after  it  was  finished,  De  Mille's 
home  was  robbed  and  his  yacht  burned.  Doro- 
thy Cumming,  the  Mary  of  the  picture,  went 
into  the  divorce  courts  with  a  blasted  romance. 
Rudolph  Schildkraut,  the  Caiphas,  died.  Frank 
Urson,  the  assistant  director,,  broke  his  neck 
diving.  Joseph  Schildkraut  and  Jacqueline 
Logan,  both  in  the  picture,  got  divorces  from 
their  respective  mates.  Leroy  Burns  and 
James  Carruthers,  of  the  executive  staff,  passed 
away,  and  Peverell  Marley,  star  cameraman, 
at  last  became  separated  from  his  wife,  Lina 
Basquette. 

Of  course,  these  things  might  have  happened 
in  due  course  of  nature.  Schildkraut,  Edeson 
and  Neill  were  elderly  men — and  so  on.  And 
yet  the  jinx  story  on  the  "King  of  Kings"  dies 
hard  in  Hollywood. 

ANOTHER  accent  has  survived  the  talkies 
— odd  how  most  of  them  do  stick  around 
in  front  of  the  microphone! 

This  one  issues  from  the  handsome  throat  of 
Lily  Damita.  Time  was  when  the  wise  ones 
had  her  condemned  to  the  hulks  because  of  the 
accent.  But  she's  whipped  the  situation,  like 
many  another  gallant  trouper,  and  has  a  nice 
new  three-year  contract  in  her  reticule.  Lily's 
been  loaned  'round  by  United  Artists,  but  will 
be  back  on  the  old  home  lot  in  the  Fall.  Joseph 
Schenck,  big  boss  of  the  lot  and  Norma  Tal- 
madge's  husband,  is  showing  her  the  lot. 

NORMA  SHEARER'S  "Strangers  May 
Kiss''  was  another  million-dollar  Holly- 
wood opening.  Klieg  lights,  surging  throngs 
and  radio  announcements.  Miss  Shearer's  car 
had  moved  up,  according  to  the  radio  an- 
nouncer, from  thousandth  in  line  to  the  point 
when  Miss  Shearer  stepped  from  it  and  said  a 
few  words  over  the  microphone. 

Next  in  line  was  Nicholas  Schenck,  who  ex- 
pressed nothing  but  pleasure  and  satisfaction 
for  being  president  of  a  company  which 

produced  such  fine  pictures  as  "Strangers  May 
Kiss."    Finishing  off  in  a  burst  of  enthusiasm 


I'mnoi'i  w    M a«..\/im.   iii;  J: 


1  I 


h.-  eulogbed  the  fine  wort  d  Um  ml  itai  el 

the  pi  tun  .     ' 

HER]  'S  i  pretty  domestic  i>i>  : 
Now  that  Dolorei  CosteUo  Btrrymore 
has  made  her  t.ilkn  in  "  Expensive 

\\  i  men,"  it  comes  oat  that  husband  J<>lm  did 
weeks  oJ  ling  with  Dolo  to  prepare 

her  foi  hei  return  to  pictures 
\  >m'll  be  um.i/.nl  when  you  beat  her,  n  ; 

Much  lowrr  ami  more  beautiful  register,  for 

I  tolo'i  new  voice,  everyoi 

Chorus  oi  Wivi  I  SERE'S 

a  husband  I " 

Wu\l    GIBSON  is  the  latest  girl  to  be 
.1  a>  a  prospective  Paramount  ^t.ir. 
.now  how  it'>  done.    The  publk  dry  boys 

get  busy  ami  wbjfpei    "We  think  they're  going 
r  Carole   Lombard,  Helen  Johnson  ami 

\\    one  Gibson." 

Then  you're  sup|K)seil  to  rush  off  and  put 
it  into  print. 

\\.  11.  even  though  they  are  hunting  for  pro 
pie  to  take  the  plan-  ot  Chattertor,  Powell  anil 
K.iv  PnUM  is,  Mary  lirian's  In  en  on  the  lot  a 
hag  time  ami  she's  still  some  distance  from 
stardom.  They  whispt  red  it  about  her,  once, 
loo 

We  forgot.  The  reason  for  the  whisper  on 
Wynne:  "City  Street-."  with  Gary  Cooper  and 
"Gang  Muster,"  the  Oakie  comedy. 

ANOTHER  reason  why  movie-makm 
run  up: 
The  bulhs  in  the  huge  incandescent  lamps 
wfakh   have   replaced   the  old    Klicg   lights  on 
movie  sets  cost  from  $50  to  S125  apiece 

And  they  only  last  about  one  hundred  hours 
at  the  most — with  luck.  The  bulbs  you  use  to 
bight  your  home,  by  contrast,  last  one  thousand 
hours  or  more. 

THI.Y  had  to  remake  practically  all  of  Ra- 
mon Novano's  "  Daybreak." 
The     reason? — The    leading    lady:    Helen 
Chandler 

■  that  Helen  is  not  a  good  actress.  She  is. 
Hut  she  isn't  a  typical  German  fraulein  and 
she  doesn't  lit  the  Novarro  story.  Why  was 
she  cb 

We  can't  be  certain,  of  course,  but  her  hus- 
band, Cyril   Hume,   writes  on   the  M-C-M   lot 
and  that  may  have  had  something  to  do  with  it. 
At  this  wilting,  Ramon  has  not  signed  a  new- 
contract  with  Metro  for  acting  and  directing, 

II  -  not  getting  the  stories  he  wants  (or  the 
girls'  which  mav  have  something  to  do  with 
that. 

"  My  next  contract  is  the  most  important  of 
all!"  he  remarks  wisely,  "Yes.  I  like  directing 
(he  has  done  his  own  foreign  versions).  I  am 
not  going  to  sign  unless  my  interests  are  pro- 


Heart  Throb 


There  she  sat  in  her  wheel  chair, 
drinking  in  the  picture — an  active 
mind  held  prisoner  in  a  useless 
body.  Some  member  of  her  family 
brings  her  to  the  theater  every  time 
there  is  a  new  picture.  She  has 
gotten  to  know  the  ushers,  who 
always  place  her  chair  in  a  certain 
spot.  For  one  hour  she  is  free  from 
disappointment  and  suffering.  Her 
expression  is  radiant.  If  the  pictures 
have  not  done  another  thing  but 
bring  surcease  from  suffering  for  one 
happy  hour  to  such  as  she — they 
have  attained  much! 

Mabel  A.  Coan, 
Detroit,  Mich. 


Kotex  stays  comfortable 

— even  in  warmer  weather 


Warmer  days  .  .  .  vacation 

plans  .  . .  make  Kotex  more 

than  ever  necessary. 

AS  vacation-time  approaches,  dainti- 
JL\_  ness  and  comfort  are  more  and  more 
important  .  .  .  particularly  in  sanitary 
protection.  You  must  feel  immaculate, 
at  ease,  all  of  the  time.  That's  why  it  is 
wise  to  specify  Kotex. 

Aid  to  daintiness 

Kotex,  for  one  thing,  is  treated  to  de- 
odorize ...  a  real  necessity  on  warmer 
days.  It  is  cool  and  delicate.  Its  filler  is 
laid  in  many  filmy,  air-cooled  layers. 
These  layers  of  Cellucotton — not  cotton 
— absorbent  wadding  act  as  quick,  com- 
plete absorbents  in  themselves.  And  not 
only  that — but  they  serve  to  carry  mois- 
ture swiftly  away  from  one  area,  leaving 
the  protective  surface  delicate  and  com- 
fortable for  hours. 

Kotex  softness,  you  see,  is  not  merely 
an  apparent  softness  that  soon  packs  into 
charing  hardness.  It  st.r,s  soft. 

K  >tex  may  be  worn  on  either  side  with 

.'  protection.  There's  no  likelihood 

of  embarrassment   or   discomfort    from 

wrong  adjustment.  You  can  remove  layers 

to  meet  changing  needs. 


Our  leading  hospitals  use  great  quan- 
tities of  Kotex  and  the  delicate  absor- 
bent of  which  it  is  made.  They  buy 
enough  annually  for  millions  of  pads. 
What  a  rare  tribute  to  its  hygienic 
safety,  its  efficiency! 

Make  it  a  point  to  specify  Kotex. 


IN  HOSPITALS... 

The  Kotex  absorbent  is  the  identical  ma- 
terial used  by  surgeons  in  P5'c  of  the 
country's  leading  hospitals. 

The  Kotex  filler  is  far  ligh:er  and 
cooler  than  cotton,  yet  absorbs  5  times 
as  much. 

Kotex  is  soft .  .  .  Not  merely  an  appar- 
ent softness,  that  soon  packs  intochafing 
hardness.  But  a  delicate,  lasting  softness. 

Can  be  worn  on  either  side  with 
equal  comfort.  No  embarrassment. 

Disposable  .  .  .  instandy.  completely. 

Regular  Kotex — <5c  for  12 
Kotex  Super-Size— 65c  for  12 


Brines  new.  ideal*  of  sanitary  coml  on!  Woioi 

to   /it  b>   an  cntirrl;.   note   patented    pToces*. 

Firm  -vet  light;  u  ill  not  curl;  p* rfecufitting. 

(V-  i.   Tatem  No.  i;/"0741) 

KOT6X 

SANITARY  NAPKINS 


I  I  8  Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

JXiwone  In 
Large  Pores  •  Blackheads 
Oily  Skin  •  Dry  Skin 


CASE    NO.    466 
I  eacher. 


.    .    Hollywood.    Calif. 
Troubled   with    black- 


heads and  scaling.    Subject  reports  black- 
practically   C"iit    after   JO  days   on 
Woodbury  side.    Doctor  reports  smoother 
and    finer    texture    on    t hat    side    ol    Iucl. 


CASE  NO.  92...  Philadelphia,  Pa.  Business 
Girl.  Age  17.  Skin  dry  and  scaled  easily  at 
beginning  of  test.  Subject's  report:  "Skin 
softer  and  smoother  and  less  dry  on  W  ood- 
bury  side."  Doctor  reporrs:  "Complexion 
now  good,  skin  smooth,  on  right  side." 


u^We/come  mil  Thrilling  News 


In  the  office  files  of  Dr.  \\  alter  J.  Highman 
.  . .  one  of  the  country's  foremost  Dermatolo- 
gists ...  are  612  case  histories,  written  by  15 
of  America's  leading  skin  specialists. 
Last  September,  612  women  entered  the 
Nation-wide  Beauty  Clinic.  Everyday,  for  50 
days,  each  "subject"  cleansed  the  left  side  of 
her  face  with  her  usual  soap,  cream  or  lotion. 
But  on  the  right  side  of  her  face,  she  used 
Woodbury's  Facial  Soap  exclusively. 
In  271  cases,  the  Woodbury  side  showed  radi- 
ant improvement  over  the  other. 


Enlarged  pores  were  benefited  in  83  cases. 
Excessively  oily  conditions  in  115  cases  .  . . 
Dry,  scaly  skin  in  SI  cases  .  .  .  Blackhead 
conditions  in  10?  cases. 

Thus,  Science  has  confirmed  what  millions 
cf  women  already  know  .  .  .  that  Woodbury's 
is  more  than  a  mere  toilet  soap;  that  it  is  an 
incomparable  beauty  treatment  in  cake  form. 

For  your  complexion's  sake  try  ^  oodbury's' 

Woodbury's  may  be  had  at  all  drug  stores  and 

toilet  goods  counters.  Or,  send   coupon  for 

generous  sample. 

111 

MAY  WE  SEND  YOU  DAINTY  SAMPLES' 
JOHN  H.  WOODBURY,  INC. 

So6  Alfred  Street,  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  If  you  live  in 
Canada,  address  John  H.  Woodbury,  Ltd.,  Perth,  Ont. 
I  would  like  advice  on  my  skin  condition  as  checked 
below,  also  trial  cake  of  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap  an.l 
generous  samples  of  two  Woodbury's  Creams  and  Facial 
Powder.  I  enclose  ic*  to  partly  cover  cost  of  mailing 
Oily  skin  □  Flabby  skin    D  Sallow  skin  □ 

Dry  <kin  O  Coarse  pores  D  Pimples         □ 

Wrinkles  P  Blackheads     □ 

Xa  m* , — — 


tected.  I  want  to  continue  as  a  director  when 
1  have  finished  acting." 

THE  bitter  battle  between  Theodore  Dreiser 
and  Paramount  has  had  the  literary  and 
motion  picture  worlds  thoroughly  agog. 

Dreiser  threatens  all  kinds  of  dire  things  if 
Paramount  maltreats  his  enormous  novel,  'An 
American  Tragedy,"  now  finished  by  Director 
Josef  Von  Sternberg. 

"I'll  enjoin  Paramount  from  exhibiting  the 
picture  and  demand  a  general  equity  ruling  on 
the  rights  of  authors!"  says  the  raging  writer. 

"They  paid  $150,000  for  the  screen  and 
talkie  rights  to  my  book.  They  slept  over  it 
since  1926 — then  they  came  to  life. 

"When  I  read  the  script  I  tried  to  protest. 
I  screamed,  I  bellowed,  I  wept.  Jesse  Lasky 
had  me  come  to  Hollywood  to  work  with  Yon 
Sternberg. 

"I  came,  I  saw,  I  was  conquered.  They 
laughed  at  me.  They  said  I  was  antiquated. 

"They  tell  me  I'll  be  crazy  over  the  picture 
— and  I  believe  they're  telling  the  truth!" 

Meanwhile,  "An  American  Tragedy,"  after 
gathering  dust  on  the  Paramount  shelf  for 
nearly  live  years,  is  now  a  talking  picture,  di- 
rected by  Von  Sternberg,  with  Phillips  Holmes 
and  Frances  Dee  in  the  leading  roles.  And  we 
shall  see  what  we  shall  see — and  so  will  the 
enraged  Mr.  Dreiser. 

THE  most  unique  party  in  Hollywood  oc- 
curred on  the  occasion  of  Gloria  Swanson's 
birthday  not  so  many  weeks  ago.  It  was  a 
luncheon  attended  by  Gloria's  mother,  her 
grandmother  and  her  daughter. 

Virginia  Barker  and  Lois  Wilson,  Gloria's 
two  closest  friends,  were  also  there.  As  the  meal 
drew  to  a  close  a  gentleman  was  announced. 
Gloria  had  not  seen  him  for  years,  but  she 
rushed  into  his  arms.  It  was  the  doctor  who 
brought  her  into  the  world! 

JIMMY  MURRAY'S  back  again.  You  know 
J  the  long,  long  story  of  Jimmy's  various  vicis- 
situdes, brought  about  by  the  fact  that  he 
looked  too  long  and  too  often  upon  the  wine 
when  it  was  red.  His  last  scrape  landed  him 
a  jail  sentence  and  everybody  said  it  was 
Jimmy's  fade-out.     But  he's  back  again. 

With  a  part  in  a  picture  and  another  earnest 
vow  that  he's  "on  the  wagon"  for  two  whole 
years. 

THE  Paramount  Studios  have  told  Director 
Richard  Wallace  that  he  may  take  as  long 
as  he  likes  over  the  making  of  "Kick-In." 
There's  a  reason  for  this.  It  is  Clara  Bow's 
first  picture  since  her  big  court  episode  and 
Clara  is  nervous. 

This  is  the  tell-tale  film  and  this  had  better 
be  good,  for  the  public  is  feeling  edgy  about 


C  1»»1,  JOKH  H.  WOOOS-^RV,   INC, 


AUn 


Here's  Money 

for  You ! 

The  contest  of  the  year,  for 
which  thousands  of  readers 
of  PHOTOPLAY  have  been 
waiting,  starts  in  this  issue. 

$5,000.00  ££ 

That  have  helped  hundreds  of 
this  Magazine's  readers  in  the 
past  are  again  to  be  divided. 

Turn  to  page  40,  read  the 
rules  and  go  in  and  tent.' 


Qai  i  i  i  ombination  <>f  medio  i 

iui.  i  .mil  bad  publii  ii\ 

Tt  >\i  5  \\  i    rin         ■    the  it.  al  old  vet- 
ul   the  M  rn -ii,  i^  ilr. ul      t rum 

att.u  k. 

Wl      .1:1.1  Holl)  wood     are  now  (a<  ed  »>th 
OUple  >'l  luw  star-. 

What'i  that?  Nothing  new,  you  ia)  '  Ah, 
luit  these  are  not  the  usual  mi 

-■..in  Broadway,  bul  .1  couple  oi  genuine, 
paneled.  'i|>  roaring  Big  ^imt'-.  called  by 
the  leading  dramatic  people  of  the  Amu 

■.ik'r 

In  •  '...it.  Mi  1  Lynne  Fontanne  and  Mi 
Alfred  l  unl 

In  addition  to  being  married,  tiny  star  to- 
■ether  in  plays  put  "ii  by  tne  [heater  Guild, 
\.  -,\  \  ..ik'-.  highbrow  producers. 

in  New  \  ork,  Fontanne  and  Lunf  are  almost 
idols 

This  year  they  played  together  in  "Elisa- 
beth, tlu-  Queen. 

Their  iir> t  pit  ture  to  !>'■  made  next  summer, 
is  "  Che  Guardsman,"  a  romantic  comedy  l>y 

Mi.ln.ir  in  u  lui  Ii  they  starred  on  the  Stage  some 

Metro  h.i~.  them  for  a  picture,  this  one,  with 

more  options.     Next   winter  they'll   he  on  the 

again. 
Will  Hollywood  «et  out  the  plush  carpets, 
brass  bands,  and  red  fire?  I  doubt  it:  I  remem- 
ber what  happened  when   Ina  Claire  1 1  r > t  hit 
the  town. 

WET  J.,  happy  days  are  here  again  for  Lois 
Wilson. 

Or  happier  days,  anyway,  since  she  got  such 
a  1ml;  part  in  Universal's  "Seed." 

Things  had  been  pretty  L,'lum  for  the  past 
year,  tor  Lois  hadn't  been  able  to  j;et  a  job  in 
that  time. 

She  had  become  so  discou  raped  that  she  was 
on  her  way  to  the  London  Stage,  and  then 
•'  Seed  "  came  alone  to  grow  into  a  bright  posie 
for  her. 

EVELYN  BRENT,  who  told  us  the  story, 
and  Stanley  Fields  to  whom  it  happened, 
raise  their  right  hands  and  solemnly  swear  that 
the  follow  fag  is  a  ver.u  ions  .mount  of  an  actual 
incident. 

Fields,  you  know,  plays  gangster  roles  and  is 
one  of  the  toughest  looking  actors  in  Holly- 
wood. The  other  evening,  Mrs.  Fields  was 
hungry,  so  Stanley  offered  to  go  to  the  corner 
restaurant  and  bring  some  sandwiches.  As  he 
\\  .1^  i  oming  along  a  side  street,  somebody  stuck 
a  gun  in  his  side  and  shouted,  "Reach  for  the 
clouds." 

Stanley  stuck  'em  up,  sandwiches  still  in 
hand 

The  hold-up  prepared  to  search  him  and  just 


Photoplay  Macazxni   roa  Junk,  1931 


1  19 


Supporting 
Attractions 

Whose  Legs  Are  These 
on  Pages  38  and  $Q? 

Here  arc  the  answers! 


1.  Jeanette  Mac  Donald 

2.  Joan  Crawford 

3.  John  Barrymore 

4.  Mit/i  Green 

5  Marlene  Dietrich 

6.  Claudette  Colbert 

7.  Clara  How- 
Dorothy  Mackaill 

9.  Gwen  Lee 

10.  Mary  Piekford 


rf 


I  trust  only  Kleenex 

to  remove  creams 
and  cosmetics  safely* 

Say*  Universal?*  lovely  star,  ■-<  I    I   li.     »  ELEZ 


•  •  • 


Even  such  dramatic  beauty 

as  hers  needs  the  protective 

cleansing  of  Kleenex! 

HOW  interesting  is  this  statement 
from  Lupe  Velez — the  beautiful 
screen  actress  who  starred  so  brilliantly 
in  "Resurrection." 

She  says:  "One  of  the  first  things  we 
learn  in  a  screen  career  is  the  use  of 
Kleenex  for  removing  creams  and  cos- 
metics." 

Why  do  you  suppose  screen  actresses 

SO  insistent  on  this  matter  of  Kleenex  ? 

It's  because  they  know  that  you  simply 

must  get  cold  cream  and   dirt  out  of 

the  pores. 

Kleenex  does.  It  is  far  more  absorbent 
than  towels  or  "cold  cream  cloths." 


As  Miss  Velez  says,  "The  blemishes 
that  start  from  embedded  dirt  or  cos- 
metics just  don't  have  a  chance  .  .  . 
Kleenex  is  so  soft  and  gentle,  and 
absorbs  so  quickly." 

Kleenex  does  away  entirely  with  the 
ugly,  germ-filled   "cold   cream   cloths.' 
Kleenex    saves    towels    from    cosmetic 
stains  and  grease. 

/•'or  handherchit 

Doctors  and  health  authorities  discov- 
ered that  Kleenex  is  ,i  health  necessity, 
to  replace  handkerchiefs.  And  now  thou- 
sands of  people  will  use  nothing  else. 
It  prevents  self-infection  from  germs  in 
handkerchiefs.  It  is  discarded  after  a 
single  use.  Kleenex  comes  in  packages 
at  25  cents.  50  cents  and  Si. 00.  Prues 
arc  the  same  in  Canada.  At  drug,  dry 
goods  or  department  stores. 


ENEX  COMPANY.  Lake  Michigan  Bid*., 

Chicago,  111.   Please  send  free  sample  of  Kleenex. 

IH-6 


Name. 


Strcct- 


T'..-  Kleenex   for   arfjustinc   make-up  as  well  cs    ' 
morins   erennis    anil    t~n*mrtic<.     This    tininty    Wr.finn 
room  accessory  came*   in    \onr    tmorite  pastel  tint  us 
tceil  as  in  pure  while. 


State 


ncda,  address:  33c  Bay  Street,  Toronto,  Out. 


120 


PICTURES  THAT  SATISFY 


OR  A   NEW   FILM   FREE! 


Complete  confi- 
dence in  the  won- 
derful results 
obtainable  with 
Agfa  Film  under 
all  conditions 
makes  possible 
this  unusual 
guarantee. 


^*<*fc 


ALL-WEATHER 


A  Guarantee  Bond 
With  Every  Roll 
AGFA    ANSCO    OF    BINGHAMTON,    N. 


FILM 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

as  he  did  so,  caught  a  glimpse  of  Fields'  face, 
lie  put  down  his  gun  and  said: 

"  Gee,  boss,  I  beg  your  pardon.  If  I'd  known 
it  was  you — well,  you'll  excuse  me,  I  know. 
How'vc  you  been  and  how're  all  the  little 
racki  -i 

And  he  retreated  humbly,  leaving  Fields  to 
walk  home  saying  a  little  prayer  of  thanks- 
giving for  looking  like  a  tough  mug. 

"VDU  know  how  Rill  Haines  clowns  all  over  a 
*■  place — kidding  his  best  friends  and  the  ones 
he  most  admires! 

Marie  Dressier  was  showing  some  of  her 
millionaire  friends  from  New  York  through  the 
M-G-M  studio.  Word  had  gone  out  of  their 
importance  with  warnings  as  to  observance  of 
P's  and  Q's. 

Bill  walked  onto  the  "Complete  Surrender'' 
set  and  began  imitating  Marie  as  master  of 
sightseers. 

The  imitation  was  merciless. 

Director  Harry  Beaumont  stepped  up  to  him 
and  whispered: 

"I  don't  want  to  spoil  your  afternoon,  Bill, 
but  the  mike  is  open  and  Marie  and  her  guests 
are  in  the  monitor  room." 

The  blood  rushed  to  Bill's  face.  He  was  so 
frightened  he  didn't  even  dare  to  turn  around 
and  look  up  into  the  glass-covered  sound  room. 
He  stepped  to  the  mike  and  said,  "Marie,  I 
don't  know  whether  this  is  a  gag  or  not.  If  it 
is,  I've  fallen  hook,  line  and  sinker.  If  it  isn't 
I'm  terribly  sorry." 

Then  he  wheeled  and  looked.  The  glass 
room  was  empty. 

A  S  far  as  Director  Mel  Brown  is  concerned, 
■**-"\Vhite  Shoulders,"  which  he  is  directing 
for  Radio,  has  been  his  greatest  jinx  picture. 

He -had  hardly  started  shooting  when  his 
wife,  visiting  Canada,  was  nearly  blinded  in 
one  eye  when  a  needle  pierced  it. 

Then  Kitty  Kelly,  one  of  the  leading  players 
in  the  picture,   took  influenza.     Mel  Brown 


( 


' 


Stop 
Skin- 
Itching 
Quick! 


Heat  and  sting  go  when 
soothing  Zemo  touches  sun- 
burn, toe-itch,  mosquito 
bites,  prickly  heat,  ivy-poi- 
soning, rashes.  First  applica- 
tion brings  relief.  Use  20  year  old  Zemo  for 
cuts,  bouses,  after  shaving,  dandruff.  Safe, 
antiseptic,  invisible.  Take  Zemo  wherever 
you  go.   All  druggists,  3  5c,  60c,  S1.00. 


PHOTOS 
ENLARGED 


entt 

98 


Six*  16x20  inch** 
Same  price   fur   full 
length  or  bust  fort 
groups,    landscape 
pet  animals,  etc..  < 
enlargements  of  ar 
pari     of    croup     pic- 
ture.   Safe  return  of  your  own 
original     photo    guaranteed. 

SEND    NO    MONEY 

Justmailphntoor  snapshot  (any 
slie.  and  within  a  week  you  will 
receive  vmjr  beatittful  life-  Lk.- 
rnlarv<-m-nt  s'ze  ltix20  In  guar- 
anteed  fadeless.  Pay  postman 
rjHc  plus  i«)su<»  or  send  $1 .00 
with  ontu  imd  we  pay  postage. 

Special  Free  Offer  55 

enlargement  we  will  send  F*R 
a  hand-tinted  miniat.ir*-  r.-pr 
ductlon  of  photo  sent  Take  11 
vantage  new  of  this  ama~.ii 
offer — send  your  photo  today 

UNITED  PORTRAIT  COMPANY 
900  W.  Lake  St.,  Dept.  G-131.  Chicago, 


rearranged  shooting  schedule  to  "shoot  around'' 
Miss  Kelly — that  is,  take  scenes  wherein  she 
does  not  appear — until  she  came  back.  But 
Jack  Holt,  playing  the  male  lead,  spiked  that 
by  catching  flu  himself.  Production  was  held 
up  for  days. 

Then  Mel  got  a  wire,  saying  his  wife  was  on 
her  way  home,  in  care  of  two  nurses,  at  heavy 
financial  expense. 

That  same  night,  stepping  out  of  a  projec- 
tion room,  a  white  cat  walked  across  his  path. 
Not  black,  but  white — but  it  was  bad  luck 
enough,  for  Brown  fell  over  it  and  sprained  a 
thumb  and  wrist. 

He  says  he  wouldn't  be  surprised  if  the  studio 
burns  down  before  he  finishes  the  film. 

HPHE  long  arm  of  coincidence  reaches  out  to 
*■  grab  "Grand  Hotel,"  the  sensational  New 
York  stage  hit  which  M-G-M  has  acquired  for 
Greta  Garbo,  for  a  story  titled  "Grand 
Hotel"  was  done  back  in  1915  by  James  W. 
Home,  a  director  for  the  old  Kalem  company. 

Like  the  present  story,  it  had  an  amazing 
number  of  quickly  shifting  scenes,  Home 
writing  in  the  February,  1916,  Photoplay  that 
he  made  73  scenes  with  100  people  in  six 
hours'  time.  Herman  Shumlin,  the  producer, 
who  is  to  direct  the  talkie  version,  was  gen- 
erally acclaimed  for  the  facility  with  which  he 
moved  the  stage  play  through  upwards  of  a 
dozen  quickly  shifting  scenes. 

Then,  Vicki  Baum,  the  Viennese  woman  who 
is  the  author,  worked  in  a  hotel  as  a  chamber- 
maid to  get  the  proper  atmosphere  for  her 
story.  Home  worked  as  a  clerk  in  a  hotel, 
which  gave  his  old  "silent"  the  ring  of  authen- 
ticity. 

One  way  in  which  the  two  "Grand  Hotels" 
don't  resemble  each  other,  however,  is  that 
Vicki  Baum's  made  her  internationally  famous, 
her  book  a  best  seller,  the  play  a  smash  hit, 
and  herself  wealthy  overnight.  Home,  maker 
of  the  first  "Grant  Hotel,"  a  good  director,  is 
forgotten. 


The  Shadow  Stage 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  59 


TARNISHED  LADY— Paramount 

THIS  is  the  talkie  debut  of  Tallulah  Bank- 
head,  an  Alabama  girl  who  for  eight  years 
was  a  sensation  on  the  London  stage.  It  is  a 
heavy  love  drama,  unrelieved  by  laughter,  con- 
cerning a  society  girl  who  marries  for  money, 
although  she  is  in  love  with  a  struggling  young 
writer.  Give  Brookhasthepartof  leadingman. 
Tallulah,  resembling  the  late  Jeanne  Eagels. 
has  gTeat  ability,  but  little  chance  to  display 
it  here. 

TOO  MANY  COOKS— Radio  Pictures 

BERT  WHEELER,  separated  from  his  part- 
ner Woolsey,  does  his  first  solo-starring 
film.  Dorothy  Lee  adds  heart  appeal.  This 
is  more  subtle  comedy  than  you'll  expect  from 
Bert,  but  he  does  it  well.  It's  about  a  young 
couple  whose  relatives  "help"'  them  plan  their 
home.  Good  old  stuttering  Roscoe  Ates  is 
grand  as  a  country  hack  driver.  Plenty  of 
laughs  in  this,  but  also  some  lumps  in  the 
throat. 

SHIPMATES— M-G-M 

HERE'S  plenty  of  action! — and  how  could 
they  help  it,  with  Robert  Montgomery, 
Cliff  Edwards,  Dorothy  Jordan.  Ernest  Tor- 
rence,  ei  a!.,  plus  the  whole  booming  United 
States  Navy,  all  doing  their  stuff  at  once?  Bob 
and  Cliff  as  gobs.  Dot  as  the  admiral's  daugh- 
ter, and  the  Navy  as  itself,  pep  up  a  story  that 
switches  suddenly  from  howling  successions  of 
laughs  into  high  melodrama  for  a  punch  end- 
ing.    Great  entertainment. 


THE  WOMAN  BETWEEN— 
Radio  Pictures 

OH,  this  one's  heavy  drama!  Father  mar- 
ried to  woman  with  whom  son  falls  in  love. 
Lily  Damita  does  some  plain  and  fancy  emot- 
ing quite  in  the  old-school  manner.  But  the 
bright  spot  of  the  film  is  the  performance  of 
little  Miriam  Seegar  who  has  just  about  every- 
thing. Lester  Vail  is  an  adequate  leading  man. 

THE  VIRTUOUS  HUSBAND— Universal 

ALL  about  a  young  man  whose  legacy  from 
his  mother  is  a  group  of  letters  to  be  given 
him  during  important  moments.  The  situation 
is  howlingly  funny  until  it  suddenly  turns  into 
an  imitation  mystery.  And  from  then  on  it's 
pretty  bad.  Although  Betty  Compson  is  given 
top  billing,  she  hasn't  much  to  do.  Elliott 
Nugent  and  Jean  Arthur  are  swell. 

BROAD  MINDED— First  National 

THIS  looks  pathetically  as  though  they  just 
had  a  lot  of  abandoned  old  gags  and  j 
tying  around  the  studio,  and  decided  to  try  to 
use  them  all  up  in  one  picture.  Joe  E.  Brown 
opens  his  mouth  extra  wide  and  makes  frequent 
joebrownish  sounds  in  an  effort  to  make  it 
laughable.    Xow  and  then,  he  succeeds. 

MEET  THE  WIFE— Columbia 

ANOTHER  of  the  good  old  dependable  stage 
farces  makes  the  jump  to  the  talking  screen 
— and  remains  funny.  It's  about  one  wife  and 
two  husbands.    There's  much  running  in  and 


out  of  iI'Mir^  being  found  in  amazing  p 
and  th.it  Mil  '"i"  thing     ("hanks  to  the  splendid 
ka  Laura  I  arlante, 
Cody  and  Harry  Myers,  it'^  .1  bflnrioua 

<  1 1  \ki\c  i  in,  i<  INGE     Utttd 

OF  too  'in  '         iu  it  can  bt 

Vou'l  you  like  Westerns     Hut  of 

this    VV  til   U-   truthfully   said   that 

1  like  it  anyway.   It  i^  to  an  enjoyable  en- 
tent  wh.it  the  talkies  h.i\<-  forgotten  to 

l  bat,  plus  many  thrills, 
laughs  and  likeable  H'x>t  Gibson  and  adorable 
Sally  Eilcra — well,  wh.it  more  must  you  have? 

IU  M'l'tl)     Ml    Four 

THIS    put  everything  In  this  one-   fights, 
nijjht    clubs,    murders, 
['he  -in-  militia  doesn't  come  thun- 
dering >>u  at  tin-  last     Hut  wh.it  can  you  exptt  t 
for  your  ■  ■  confused  plot  (but  thin 

is  relieved  only  by  t] 
cellent   work  o  Stuart,   who  da 

better  stuff,  .mil  Priscilla  Dean     It  was  Tom 
Santschi's  last  film,  before  his  death. 

HELL'S  i  Mil) 
Sartorial  Players,  Ltd. 

SOthedii  I  one  morning,  "Well  jusl 

get  together  .mil  make  a  Western.  The  storj 
't  matter  as  long  as  wo  have  lots  of  riding 
shooting.'1  And  that's  what  they  did.  The 
V  irginia  Brown  Faire, 
in  Rich  and  some  others  who  don't  matter 
If  you  like  Westerns,  and  if  an  inconsistency 
or  two  doesn't  seriously  bother  you,  you'll  like- 


When  Robert  Edeson  died,  Holly- 
wood not  only  lost  one  of  its  most 
capable  actors,  but  one  of  its  most 
lovable  citizens.  Unlike  a  lot  of 
other  stage  players  who  left  Broad- 
way for  the  movies,  he  didn't  scoff 
at  Hollywood's  ways.  He  liked 
them  and  often  said:  "I  run  and 
swim  and  ride,  things  I  like  to  do, 
and  am  paid  for  it."  It  has  been 
truly  said  of  him,  "he  had  an  appetite 
for  life" 


Photoplay  Magaziki   roi  Tun*,  1931 

C   II    I    w 

DOUBLE 

W  II    I   L  i 


ii  it  i:  s  s  i  x  u 


"  I  like  DOUBLE  MINT 
while  dressing.  That's 
what  so  many  stars  are 
telling  us.  Besides  the  de- 
liciously  refreshing  qual- 
ity of  this  good  peppermint 
chewing  gum,  it  relaxes 
the  nerves  which  make 
tense,  hard  lines  around 
the  lips.  MORE  CHEWING 
is  now  claimed  to  be  the 
great  cry  of  Dentists  and 
Beauty  Specialists.  Modern 
food  is  too  soft  to  give 
the  normal  amount  of 
chewing  exercise  to  the 
delicate  facial  muscles. 
DOUBLE  MINT,  o  fresh  stick 
or  two, chewed  ten  minutes 
regularly  every  day,  is 
said  to  supply  this  much 
needed  additional  amount 
of  chewing.  Keep  a  pack- 
age of  DOUBLE  MINT  always 
handy  on  your  dressing 
table.  It  gives  one  of  the 
most  natural  of  all  Facials, 
tends  to  keep  the  mouth 
and  lips  well  shaped  — 
end   only  costs    a    nickel. 


I  2  I 


MINT 


122 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


How  French  Women  Make  Up 
Lips  and  Cheeks  to  Last  All  Day 


A  New  Discovery  that  Takes  the 
Bother  Out  of  Make-up.  Gives  the 
Same  Natural  Color  to  Lips  and 
Cheeks.  Ends  Caking,  Drying, 
Unsightly  "Lipstick  Line." 
Lasts  All  Day 


A  way  has  been  found  that  not  only  gives 

r\  a  perfect  make-up  quicker  and  easier 

than  any  way  known  before,  but  that 

HOLDS  perfectly  all  day  long.  Instead  of 

making  up  every  hour,  you  make  up  only 

once  or  twice  a  day ! 

It's  a  French  idea,  of  course.  And  in  both 
France  and  America  it  is  rapidly  changing 
present  ways  of  make-up. 

You  use  it  on  both  lips  and  cheeks.  And 
thus  gain  a  color  harmony  that's  amazing  in 
contrast  to  using  separate  lipstick  and  rouge 
— both,  invariably,  of  different  color. 
It  gives  the  perfect  Parisian  make-up  of 
today.  And — it  lasts  for  hours. 

UNLIKE  AMERICAN  ROUGE 
It  is  called  A  ngelns  Rouge  Incarnat  and  comes 
as  probably  the  nearest  thing  to  a  permanent 
make-up  yet  discovered.  It  is  different  from 


You  make  up  once  a  day  instead  of  every  hour  with  the 

same  Angelus  Rouge  Incarnat  shade  for  both  lips  and 

cheeks,  and  thus  achieve  the  new  natural  effect  that  is 

so  smart  in  make-up. 


Louis  Philippe,  temperamental  French  colourisl,  who 

has  made  make-up  an  art — and  about  whom  all  Paris  is 

talking,  shown  with  talented  Judith  Anderson, one  of  his 

famous  stage  clients. 


any  American  rouge  you  have  ever  seen, 
though  its  form  is  the  same. 
It  is  the  creation  of  Louis  Philippe,  tempera- 
mental colourist,  whom  all  of  Paris  follows 
in  the  art  of  make-up.  It  banishes  al  1  smear- 
ing, all  caking  and  drying  and  ends  com- 
pletely the  unsightly  "lipstick  line"  most 
women  complain  of  a  few  minutes  after 
making  up. 

No  more  annoyance  of  constant  making  up. 
No  uneven  make-up.  No  caking,  no  smear- 
ing— and  so  exquisitely  smooth  that  you 
cannot  even  feel  it. 

COMES  IN  TWO  FORMS 
All  department  and  drug  stores  have  it  now 
under  the  name  of  Angelus  Rouge  Incarnat  in 
two  forms:  Regular  Lipstick  Form,  and  in 
thecharming  "Little  Red  Box."  Most  women 
prefer  the  box.  A  shade  for  every  type  and 
complexion.  Same  price  as  American  rouges. 

Angelus 

Rouge  Incarnat 

Louis  Philippe  9  Inc. 


MAGIC  DISC 

dairdby 


oa  a. 


pCrwder/mff 


The  Wonderstoen  way  of  removing  needless  hair  is  th« 
Refined  Method  for'the  Refined  Woman. TuismagiC 
rosy  disc  erases  hair  as  easily  as  you  erase  a  pencil 
murk.  Just  rotate  Wonderstoen  over  the  skin  and  whisk 
the  hair  away,  leaving  the  skin  hair-free,  velvety- 
smooth.  Benin's  Wonderstoen  is  guaranteed  not  to 
contain  Sulphides  or  poisons. 
So  safe,  physicians  prescribe 
it.  It  is  clean,  odorli  - 

tary.  economical  and  always  ^  ft^iT/ll 
ready     for    use.     Millions    of  B  Jk  m\  m  I  J  I  '.  "  '. 
women  the  world  over  employ  H  Wt  M> 


eraA£An 

NEEDLESS  HAIR 

this  modern  method  for  erasing  hair,  and  thousands  of 
unsolicited  testimonials  from  grateful  users  prove  its 
success.  Wonderstoen  has  been  in  use  for  many  years. 
Benin's  Wonderstoen  deluxe  (for  arms  and  legs)  S3. 
Benin's  Wonderstoen  Facial  (for  chin,  cheeks  and 
upper  lip  $1.25.  On  sale  at  department  stores,  drug 
and  perfume  shops,  or  direct 
from  manufacturer  (add  10c 
postace  with  each  order). 
■■Benin's  Wonderstoen  Co., 
V  KaCIIvj  I  "J         1123  Broadway.  NY. 

Dept.  6-P.  Free    Booklet. 


Jake  money  taking  pictures.  Photo, 
'raphs  in  biff  demand.  Commercial 
holography  also  pays  biff  money. 
.earn  quickly  at  home  in  .-pare  time, 
pessary.  Write  today 


Hoflrt .,_.._ 

DHU|VV">   ll/aflie  -■<■"<  /'noloorn,  ■.».  America 
ill"  fll    HUI"      Schoolol  Photography.  Dept.  125. 

I  •'  B*   l»  3601  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago. 


Y^DramaDance 

ileal  Comedy,  Sure  and  Concert  Danciac.  Talkinc 
Pictures.  Elocution.  Pergonal  Development,  Btcek 
Ttratre  Train ine  appearance*  while  learn inc.  Pupil*.  Mary  Pickiojd. 
Lee  Tracy.    J  red  and  Adeie  Aataire.  etc.      Catalog    16. 

Irwin,  Alvlcnc  University,  66  W.  S5th  St.,  New  York 


Brief  Reviews  of 
Current  Pictures 

|  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  12  ] 


REACHING    FOR   THE   MOON— United   Art- 
Doug  Fairbanks  bounds  through  a  dizzy  com- 
edy as  a  go-getting  stock  broker.     Different  for  Doug 
and  very  merry.     Bebe  Daniels  is  the  big  romance. 
(.Feb.) 

REDUCING  -M-G-M.— Marie  Dressier  and  Polly 
Moran  cut  up  in  a  beauty  parlor.  Need  we  add  you'll 
die  laughing?     (Feb.) 

REMOTE  CONTROL— M-G-M— Billy  Haines 
as  a  radio  announcer.  A  gnat  chance  for  laughs  and 
they  haven't  been  overlooked.     (Dec.) 

RENEGADES— Fox— Warner  Baxter  in  an  ex- 
citing story  of  the  Foreign  Legion,  with  Myrna  Loy 
as  the  feminine  spy.      (Jan.) 

•  RESURRECTION— Universal.— Talkie  ver- 
sion of  the  old  tale  is  a  triumph  for  Lupe 
Vilez.  She's  all  fire,  beauty  and  sincerity.  Well 
directed  and  John   Boles  sings  nicely.     (March) 

RIDER  OF  THE  PLAINS,  A— Syndicate  — 
Grand  old  Western  full  of  hokum,  and  a  happy, 
happy  ending.     (May) 

RIDIN*  FOOL,  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Great 
little  Western.  Will  furnish  the  kids  with  plenty  of 
thrills.     (April) 

RIGHT  TO  LOVE,  THE— Paramount.— Ruth 
Chatterton  in  a  real  dramatic  gem.  Ruth  and  the 
technicians  collaborate  in  putting  over  the  most  con- 
vincing dual  role  ever  filmed.    (Feb.) 

RIVER'S  END— V\  arners—  A  lusty  Curwood  he- 
story,  with  Charles  Bickford  in  a  dual  r61e.     (Dec.) 

ROYAL  BED,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell 
Sherman  directs  himself  in  a  smart,  amusing  comedy 
about  modern  royalty.  Mary  Astor  is  a  gorgeous 
princess  and  the  veteran  Nance  O'Neil,  a  grand 
queen.    (Feb.) 

•  ROYAL  FAMILY  OF  BROADWAY,  THE 
— Paramount. — A  brilliantly  done  comedy  of 
actors  at  home.  Fredric  March  does  the  work  of  his 
life.  Ina  Claire  is  marvelous.  Don't  miss  this  one. 
(Feb.) 

SCANDAL  SHEET — Paramount. — A  great  news- 
paper drama  with  George  Bancroft  as  the  managing 
editor  and  Kay  Francis  as  his  wife.  A  meaty  movie 
with  a  knockout  kick.    (Feb.) 

SCOTLAND  YARD— Fox— A  rattling  good 
crime  story  with  that  rattling  good  actor,  Edmund 
Lowe,  playing  a  dual  r6le.  This  film  packs  a  wallop. 
(Jan.) 

SEA  LEGS — Paramount. — In  spite  of  Jack  Oakie, 
Harry  Green  and  Eugene  Pallette,  this  comedy  isn't 
very'  comical.      (Jan.) 

•  SEAS  BENEATH— Fox.— Dashing  adventure 
story  of  submarines  during  the  war.  George 
O'Brien  does  a  grand  job.  All  the  family  will  like 
it.      (March) 

SECOND  HONEYMOON.  THE— Continental. 
— Farce  comedy  of  domestic  felicity  with  Josephine 
Dunn  and  Edward  Earle.     Entertaining.     (March) 

SEE  AMERICA  THIRST— Universal.— A  two- 
reel  plot  stretched  over  a  full-length  film  induces 
sleepiness.  Langdon  and  Summerville  do  their  best 
to  make  it  funny.      (Jan.) 

SHADOW  RANCH— Columbia.— Buck  Jones' 
new  Western  is  a  crackerjack.     (Dec.) 

SHE  GOT  WHAT  SHE  WANTED — Cr:ize-Tif- 
fany. — An  houriul  of  guffaws  over  old  man  Boris  and 
his  philandering  wife.    Betty  Compson's  the  wife  and 

darn  good's  the  picture.     (Dec.) 

SILVER  HORDE.  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Rex 
Beach's  salmon-fishing  thriller  makes  a  tingling  phon- 
oplay  and  Evelyn  Brent  makes  a  brand  new  hit. 
(Dec.) 

SINGLE  SIN,  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Nothing 
new,  but  splendidly  handled.  Kay  Johnson  does  some 
fine  acting.  Beit  Lytell,  Mat  hew  Betz  and  Paul 
Hurst  lend  good  support.     (April) 

SIN  SHIP.  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Louis  Wol- 
heim.  as  actor  and  director,  attempts  a  romantic 
r61e.    Disappointing.      (Jan.) 

•  SIN  TAKES  A  HOLIDAY— Pathe— Don't 
miss  this.  Constance  Bennett,  beautiful 
clothes,  smart  dialogue  and  a  working-girl-boss  ro- 
mance that  has  a  real  kick.     A  honey.      (Jan.) 


Photoplay  Maoaztn]   roa  Junk,  19.u 


si  l    I  IGH  i       '   ,  [or  I  !  Win- 

olc   Liahlnn   repeat    mans    ol   their   monkey- 
Uut  they're  still  funny,    (/ ' 

•SKIPP1     Pmi  .in  .nut      i 
SMa*y,    in. I    II.. I. In    I  ilnrlv 

lo>  ible  In  thia  grand  pirturr  hoard  on  Prn 

,.     '.  uung  .in.l  ..I.I  tllke  will  I 

soi  BUSTOITtDI  PARIS  i  ...i.r  id.-  Roofa 

of    Parti  ,      Skilful    pontomine 

naihlr 

with. >ut     Lr.  I     the 

tonga  .in-  I 

•       sill     I  III   KM   It.     I  UK  '  ' 

nbbrtt  m  i  Kay,  charming  >  I  how 

he    dm  :     K. ilit. .11.    t.....    .in. I    in. I.-    beautiful 

than 

•     STEPPING  OU1  '  trlotte 

iwood.   Leila   Hj 

Stubb*  in. I  I. ili. in 
make  tins  lii{lit   i  '  nual  laugh. 

See  it.      ,1! 

si  01  k  \   iik  w  k\     Paramount      Slow,  unreal 
roll  ami  Phillip*.  Holme*  line  m  the 
romantic  momenta.    i  i  frU) 

•    BTRANGBRS  M  \\  Kiss 
r.    th-    last  in    .iii.l 

beautlfull)  gowned  In  .i  v  Ivld  .Ir  mi  i  ■>!  modern  In.-  by 
iin-  aulhot  arrn. 

*sl  \M     -Ftrat   National.— Single  or  nut.  it's 
a  gem.     Radiant   Marilyn  Mill.-r  sma 

SISRISK     IK  Ml.    THE— Tiffany    Productions. 
— A  Western  with  too  much  talking  and  not  enough 
{.March) 

si  NPENSE —  British  International. — A  war 
ami  .i  pretty  slow  one.    Vic  McLaglen's  brother  (  yril 
is  in  it.      (Jan.) 

SW.WF.F.   RlVF.R-s.mo  Art-World'  Wide.— 

Tbelma  Todd  and  (.rant  Withers  try.  hut  just  can't 
save  this  melodrama  from  being  anything  but  ordi- 
nary. 

*T  WM        1'iramount. — A  poem  of  a  picture  laid 
in    the    South    Se.is.    with    an    all-n.iti\ 
beautifully  directed  by  the  late  F.  \V.  Murnau.    Fine 
synchronized  musical  score.     (May) 

TAILOR  MADE  M  \\.  \  -M-G-M.—  The  jaunty 
and  s.|i-e<intiilent  Bill  Maims  plays  this  old  Charlie 
Kav  s-lent  with  a  new  restraint  that  is  delightful. 
You'll  laugh  and  like  it.     (May) 


'•'    j 


Our  Clara,  minus  the  old  Zulu 
coiffure,  as  she  looks  in  her  latest 
Paramount  release,  "Kick  In."  After 
a  flaming  career  of  wind-tossed 
tresses,  has  the  Brooklyn  Bonfire 
suddenly  gone  Goldilocks  on  us? 
Anyway,  it's  becoming,  isn't  it,  and 
maybe  in  a  year  or  two  there'll  be 
enough  for  a  bun  in  the  back 


\MrXYW)y>pAjy\AXY\AA 


MODESS 

Cool,  comfortable  proteclion  for  sheer  summer  frocks 


YOU'LL  find  that  you  can  wear 
Modess  under  the  softest  of 
clinging  chiffons,  or  the  thinnest  of 
daytime  dresses,  with  a  comforting 
feeling  of  perfect  safety.  And  the 
softly  fluffed,  evenly  absorbent  filler 
material  is  the  coolest  sort  of  protec- 
tion there  is.  All  the  edges  and  corners 
are  gently  rounded;  the  flexible  filler 
smoothly  shapes  itself  to  the  figure. 
So  Modess  will  never  be  conspicuous. 
It  is  deodorant — easily  disposable. 

There  are  two  types  of  Modess — 
Regular  and  the  new  Compact .  Modess 
Regular  is  standard  thickness.  Thou- 
sands of  women  already  know  that  it 
is  the  best  sort  of  sanitary  protection. 

The  Compact  is  Modess  Regular, 
gently  compressed  to  half  its  thick- 
ness. It  is  designed  to  supplement 
the  Regular  for  wear  with  evening 
clothes  and  thin  summer  dresses — for 


packing  in  the  week-end  bag — for 
times  when  less  thickness  is  necessary . 
Many  women — and  young  girls  par- 
ticularly— will  find  that  the  Compact 
is  satisfactory  at  all  times.  For  a  per- 
fect combination,  try  a  box  of  each. 

(ktk  vvycrvv  ■*4rt3  vwiAcnv 

£/ NEW    BRUNSWICK,    (J     N.J..U.S.   A. 

World*!  largest  makers  of  surgical  dressinrs. 
bandages,  Red  Cross  absorbent  cotton,  etc 


•npact  and  Modes!  Regular  art  packed 
in  b-.xes  cf  tuelfe — and  art  priced  the  same. 


WuCK)J2A/3 


I  24 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


Now!  Actually  Get  Rid 
Of  Arm  And  Leg  Hair 

Banish    Completely    the    Problem    of    Coarsened    Re -growth 


A  Discovery  That  is  Proving  to  the 
Wonder  of  the  Cosmetic  World  That 
Hair  Can  Not  Only  Be  Removed  In- 
stantly, But  Its  Reappearance  Delayed 
Amazingly. 

A  new  way  of  removing  arm  and  leg  hair 
has  been  found  that  not  only  removes  every 
vestige  of  hair  instantly,  but  that  banishes 
the  stimulated  hair  growth  thousands  of 
women  are  charging  to  less  modern  ways. 
A  way  that  not  only  removes  hair,  but  de- 
lays its  reappearance  remarkably. 
It  is  changing  previous  conceptions  of  cos- 
meticians about  hair  removing.  Women  are 
flocking  to  its  use.    The  creation  of  a  noted 


Not  only  is  slightest  fear  of  coarsened  re- growth 

banished  but  actual  reappearance  of  hair   is 

slowed  amazingly. 

laboratory,  it  is  different  from  any  other  hair 
remover  known. 

What  It  Is 

It  is  an  exquisite  toilet  creme  resembling  a 
superior  beauty  clay  in  texture.  You  sim- 


By  a  total  lack  of  stubble  you  can  feel  the  dif- 
ference between  this  and  old  ways. 


ply  spread  it  on  where  hair  is  to  be  removed. 
Then  rinse  off  with  water. 

That  is  all.  Every  vestige  of  hair  is  gone; 
so  completely  that  even  by  running  your 
hand  across  the  skin  not  the  slightest  trace 
of  stubble  can  be  felt.  And — the  reappear- 
ance of  that  hair  is  delayed  surprisingly! 

When  re-growth  finally  does  come,  it  is 
utterly  unlike  the  re-growth  following  old 
ways.  You  can  feel  the  difference.  No  sharp 
stubble.   No  coarsened  growth. 

The  skin,  too,  is  left  soft  as  a  child's.  No 
skin  roughness,  no  enlarged  pores.  You  feel 
freer  than  probably  ever  before  in  your  life 
of  annoying  hair  growth. 

Where  To  Obtain 

It  is  called  Neet — and  is  on  sale  at  all  drug 

and  department  stores  and  beauty  parlors. 

Costs  only  a  few  cents. 

282 

N  Cream 

C  C    I     Hair  Remover 


Instant  Foot  Relief 


Keeps 
Shoes 
Shapely 


Hides 

Large 

Joints 


rJischerfirotector 


You  cannot  be  well-dressed  If  yourshoes  are  unsightly. 
Tin-  Fischer  Protector  instantly  HIDES  and  RELIEVES 
bunions  and  large  Joints.  Wear  In  any  shoe  —  in  your 
regular  size — outside  or  under  stocking.  Sold  for  oyer  20 
years  by  shoe  dealers,  druggists,  and  department  stores. 
Free  Trial  Offer:  Money  back  if  not  instantly  re- 
lieved. Write,  giving  shoe  size  and  for  which  foot. 

FISCHER  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

P.  O.  Box  3S3,  Dept.  35,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 


■■ 


Oid  Town  Boats  don't  need  a  heavy  hand  at  the 
helm.  They're  certainly  easy  to  steer!  Built  for 
speed,  and  to  stand  heavy  loads. 

Free  catalog  shows  prices  and  models.  Also  canoes; 
rowboats:  dinghies;  big,  fast,  seaworthy,  all-wood, 
outboard  family-boats;  and  speedy  step-planes.  Write. 
Old  Town  Canoe  Co.,  226  Main  St.,  Old  Town,  Me. 

"Old  Town  Boats" 


THIRD  ALARM,  THE— Tiffany  Productions.— 
Out  come  the  old  fire  engines  to  make  a  big  noise. 
Hut  no  matter  how  hard  Jimmy  Hall  and  Hobart 
Bosworth  try,  it's  just  one  of  those  things.    (Jan.) 

3  LOST  CIRLS— Fox.— Loretta  Young.  Joan 
Marsh  and  Joyce  Compton  are  the  three  little  girls 
who  come  to  the  big  city.  Lew  Cody  good  as  the 
racketeer  and  John  Wayne  not  so  good.     (.April) 

TODAY — Majestic. — One  of  those  sensationals — 
all  hell,  sex  and  box-office.  Hokum,  but  there's  Con- 
rad Nagtl  to  hold  you.     (Dec.) 

•     TOL'ABLE     DAVID— Columbia.— A    pretty 
grand  film,  excellently  directed,  and  beautifully 
acted  by  the  newcomer,  Richard  Cromwell.    (Jan.) 

•  TOM  SAWYER— Paramount.— Jackie  Coo- 
gan,  Mitzi  Green,  Junior  Durkin — real  kids  in 
the  great  kid  classic.  A  corking  picture.  Don't  miss 
it.    And  by  all  means,  don't  let  the  kids.     (Dec.) 

•  TRADER  HORN— M-G-M.—  Harry  Carey 
magnificent  as  Trader  Horn.  Story  of  the 
African  jungle,  full  of  the  tensest  drama  and  per- 
fection in  photography.      (March) 

TWO  WORLDS— British  International.— An 
honest,  dramatic  story  of  inter-racial  clashes — prob- 
ably the  best  of  the  recent  English  films.    (Feb.) 

UNDER  MONTANA  SKIES— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Slim  Summerville  saves  a  pretty  weak  picture 
about  a  stranded  showgirl.    (Feb.) 

UNDER  SUSPICION— Fox.— You  may  not  care 
what  happens  to  Lois  Moran  and  her  Northwest 
Mountie,  but  you'll  get  your  money's  worth  of  gor- 
geous scenery.     (Jan.) 

UNFAITHFUL— Paramount.— Ruth  Chatterton. 
a  society  matron  who  can't  divorce  her  faithless  hus- 
band (Paul  Cavanaugh)  without  involving  her  own 
sister-in-law.  and  so  goes  to  the  dogs.  Good  for  the 
Chatterton  fans.     (May) 

UP  FOR  MURDER— Universal— (Reviewed  un- 
der the  title  "Fires  of  Youth.")  Talkie  version  of 
the  old  silent,  "Man,  Woman  and  Sin."  Lew  Ayres 
and  Genevieve  Tobin  struggle  through.  Pretty  badly 
worn  plot.     (April) 

UP  THE  RIVER— Fox.— The  lighter  side  of  prison 
life,  and  very  amusing.  Spencer  Tracy  is  grand. 
(Dec.) 

VIRTUOUS  SIN,  THE— Paramount.— Torrid 
love  in  frigid  Russia.  Kay  Francis  and  Walter  Huston 
are  simply  grand.     (Dec.) 

WAR  NURSE— M-G-M.— A  perfect  movie  story- 
gone  wrong.  Gruesome  and  silly,  by  turns,  this 
picture  is  a  sad  disappointment.  June  Walker. 
Anita  Page,  Robert  Montgomery  and  Robert  Ames 
have  the  leads,  which  makes  it  all  doubly  distressing, 
(Jan.) 

•     WAY  FOR  A  SAILOR— M-G-M.— John  Gil- 
bert as  a  he-man  sailor,  with  rowdy  humbr  and 
low-brow  dialogue.     Never  a  dull  moment.     (Dec  ) 

WESTWARD  BOUND— Syndicate.— Buffalo 
Bill,  Jr.,  with  his  guns  and  horse  in  another  Western. 
(Feb.) 

WHITE  THUNDER.— The  eternal  triangle  story 
is  secondary  to  the  magnificent  photography  show- 
ing the  terrifying  vast  iciness  of  Newfoundland. 
(March) 

WIDOW  FROM  CHICAGO,  THE— First  Na- 
tional.— Alice  White  is  starred  in  this  conventional 
gangster  picture.      (Jan.) 

WILD  MEN  OF  KALIHARI— Travel  Film.— 
Mildly  interesting  African  adventure — without  much 
faking.     (Feb.) 

WILD  WEST  WHOOPEE— Cosmo— Jack  Perrin 
in  a  conventional  Western  saved  by  a  thrilling  rodeo 
sequence  and  the  noble  work  of  his  horse.  Starlight. 
Josephine  Hill  is  the  heroine.     (May) 

YANKEE  DON,  THE— Richard  Talmadge  Pro- 
ductions.— Richard  Talmadge  made  it  himself  and  it 
stars  his  muscles.  Western,  very,  very  mello-drama. 
(Dec.) 

YELLOW  MASK,  THE— British  International. — 
An  attempt  to  mix  music,  comedy  and  melodrama. 
But  they  don't  mix.     (Feb.) 

YOUNG  WOODLEY— British  International.— 
A  well-made  transcription  of  the  stage  play  about 
adolescent  love.    English  cast,     (Dec.) 

ZWEI  HERZEN  IM  %  TAKT  (Two  Hearts  in 
Waltz  Time) — Associated  Cinemas. — The  most 
charming  sound  picture  yet  sent  from  Germany. 
Gav  and  tuneful  oneretta  in  the  Viennese  manner. 
(Jan.) 


Photoplay  Magazine  i<>k  Jim.  1931 


I  2 


Am  I  An  Actor? 

|  (o.Mist  1 1>  rmoM  pac]  < 

\  oik  revue  produi  er,  aJ  •  >  wants  him  i"  play 
ivenile  lead  in  tlu-  oew  edition 

White's    Scandal-  " 

Km  before  he  ihmks  of  ih.it  he  want*  t" 
r  the  qui  stion  In-  haa  put   to  hii 

"Am  I  .in  .11  tor'" 

AT  the  moment  be'i  taking  voice  lessons 
from  -i  Mi  v"  ■>"  ■  I"'  mm  '  '"  '  •'"  ''"  'l1'"^ 
with  Buddy's  voio  Hi  also  studying 
Spaiu-h.  with  foreign  picture  veniont  in  mind. 
And  he's  taking  in  a  pit  tun-  almosl  every 
night,  studying  other  actors,  trying  to  discovi  r 
how  they  do  it. 

It's  a  bit  sad,  knowing  the  joyous,  un- 
troubled heights  In'  walked  .is  a  boy,  and  the 
sudden  disillusionment  that  descended  t<> 
wound  and  confuse  him     lint  he's  acting  like  .1 

man  now  in  asking  himself.  "Am  I  an  actor?" 
and  grimly  sitting  out  tOprOVC  that  the  answer 

i^  '\  ,  s  " 


Retired  at  Eleven 


[  CONTTHl  l  D  PROM  PAOI  35  | 

Duty— and  Fate  struck  home  before  the  cam- 

Who  ran  forget  tlu  comedy  wherein  Farina 
was  chased  BOOBS  .1  wide  and  pitted  cornfield 
DV  a  large  and  infuriated  pig?  Farina  just 
didn't  look  frightened— Farina  was  so  gosh- 
darned  scared  that  our  hearts  leaped  to  the 
screen  for  him! 

Or  the  picture  that  saw  Farina  hoisted  to  the 
turntable  of  a  large  phonograph.  "Hot  dog!" 
gurgled  the  child,  set  for  a  nice  ride. 

And  when,  at  maximum  speed,  the  turn- 
table hurled  Farina  to  the  floor,  do  you  think 
Farina  was  just  pretending  to  be  hurt? 

No,  Farina  was  just  ourselves  when  we  are 
kicked  down  the  porch  steps  by  our  best  girl's 
pappy. 

Farina  hurt,  and  hurt  plenty. 


It  seems  that  young  Mr.  Fairbanks, 
Jr.  wears  an  eight-year-old  felt  hat — 
but  young  Mrs.  Fairbanks,  Jr.  Joan 
Crawford  spends  her  pocket  money 
for  such  a  dashing  bonnet  as  this. 
One  of  those  bandeau-and-halo  brim 
affairs  in  white  straw 


'-1S1&S 

F,  PARIS  ^^.         D 

FACE   POWDER 

It's  the  new  monner,  the  new  mood,  the  new  chic  to  ac- 
cent one's  personality.  It  is  modish  to  be  one's  self.  The 
exquisite  tone  blends  of  Djer-Kiss  Face  Powder  bring  out 
the  natural  color-tones  of  the  complexion.  And  its  soft,  fine, 
exquisite  texture  achieves  a  smoothness  of  flower-like  love- 
liness. Djer-Kiss  also  has  a  singulor  affinity  as  a  face  powder 
and  clings  to  the  face  through  the  most  active  day  or  night. 
Since  harmony  in  toiletries  is  as  necessary  as 
harmony  in  costume   here  is  the  new 

.    .    .    DJER-KISS 
ENSEMBLE  IDEA 


Talcum,  sachet,  rouge, 
lipstick,  perfume — oil  in  the 
exquisite   D|er-Kiss   odeur. 


ALFRED  H.  SMITH  CO  Sole  Importers 

New  York  CK  .^;o  Montreol 


Porij 


los  Arse  es 


126 


Tliis  anniversary  special  includes: 
the  famous 

CURVFIT 

Woman9*  RAZOR 

with  blade  .  .  value  *1°° 
Curvfit  Shaving  Cream  .50 
Citrvh't  Deodorant  .  .  .50 
Extra  Car  v  fit  Blade  .    ..10 


You  get  all  for 


r 


*2.10 


THE  large  50-cent  tube  of  Curvfit  Deluxe 
Underarm  Shaving  Cream — exquisitely 
scented,  latherless,  requiring  no  brush,  and 
specially  created  for  delicate  armpit  use!  The  50- 
cent  size  of  delightful  Curvfit  Deodorant  Toilet 
Powder!  And  an  extra  Curvfit  famous  super- 
lasting  bladel  Enough  to  keep  your  underarms, 
back  of  neck  and  limbs,  fashionably  hair-free, 
sweet,  comfortable  and  suavely  in  the  mode  ALL 
SUMMER  LONG— FREE  with  the  lovely  stand- 
ard 81  model  of  theworld'sfinestrazorfor  women! 
Unlike  any  man's  razor,  the  patented,  narrow 
curved  head  of  the  Curvfit  fits  the  curves  of  the 
feminine  figure,  and  protects  the  most  sensitive 
tissues  with  its  exclusive  blade-guard.  Modern 
women  have  long  since  discarded 
costly,  troublesome  methods  for 
tins  easier,  daintier,  p'easanter  and 
.-•//.',  medically  approved  way.  It 
also  saves  loads  of  expense  be- 
cause the  razor  lasts  a  lifetime  eunvrr 
and  new  blades,  obtainable  from  ,,,'dJ, 
your  druggist  or  us,  costs  only  5J 
cents  for  five.  "Only  curvfit 

6ts  the  arrupil" 

Tuo  nays  to  get  this  nonderful  bargain! 

IBuy  the  famous  dollar  Curvfit  from  am/  dealer,  and 
•  send  us  the  COVER  Or'  THE  BOX,  with  the 
coupon  below.  We  will  mail  you  the  shaving  cream, 
powder,  and  extra  blade  FREE. 

2  Ifyour  dealer  hasn'ttheCurvfit.sendONE  DOLLAR 
•  with  the  coupon.  We  will  promptly  mail  the 
IN  riREW.  10  OUTFIT  with  an  absolute  guaran- 
tee to  refund  your  money  instantly  if  you  are  not 
utterly  delighted  with  your  purchase. 

u    here's  the  COUPON! 

Dept   P.  CURVFIT  SALES  CORP. 

119  W.  23rd  St.,  New  York. 

Please  send  me  your  amazing  Curvfit 
Anniversary  Special.  Enclosed  find 
D  One  Dollar  (or)  □  Uox  Cover 
(Check  Which;. 


c 
c 

c 


Name. 


Address 


City State 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  55  ] 

"The  morning  the  ad  appeared  a  guy  named 
Simonello  got  temperamental  and  resigned — 
or  maybe  was  fired — from  the  tonsorial 
parlors  of  the  Christie  Hotel.  Believe  it  or 
not,  he  was  waiting  for  a  street  car  when  he 
read  Sadye's  ad,  hot-footed  up  there  and  got 
the  job." 

IMOGEXE  says  Jim  was  just  another  barber 
until  he  gave  Pauline  Erederick  her  famous 
bob.  After  that  he  was  the  whole  works. 
He  finally  took  several  of  Sadye's  girls,  opened 
a  shop  of  his  own  and  knocked  'em  bow- 
legged.  You  simply  were  nobody  unless  Jim 
cut  your  hair.  Came  Spring — and  one  day 
some  of  Jim's  girls  quit  him  cold,  sneaked  their 
tools  out  the  back  door,  galloped  down  the 
street  to  the  nearest  vacant  store  and  opened 
the  Anne  Merideth  Shop. 

Well,  when  I  asked  Imogene  to  tell  me 
about  the  Hollywood  secrets  of  beauty  she 
just  shrieked  "Whoops  my  dear!"  and  fell  in 
a  swoon.  I  don't  think  she  really  fainted,  Mr. 
Quirk. 

It  was  just  a  gag  to  get  another  drink — and 
it  worked.  I  had  to  give  her  one  before  she'd 
go  on. 

"Either  you've  got  good  skin  or  you 
haven't,"  Imogene  claims.  "Look  at  mine." — 
Incidentally,  Mr.  Quirk,  Imogene  really  has 
lovely  skin — soft  and  smooth  and  warm  and 
— but  to  go  on. — "God  gave  it  to  me  in  the 
first  place  and  I  keep  it  that  way  with  lots  of 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

Small  wonder  that  at  six,  Master  Allen 
Clayton  Hoskins  was  an  old  man.  The  facts 
of  life  were  cold  turkey  to  him.  He  knew 
then  what  it  takes  most  of  us  thirty  years  to 
find  out — that  Life  is  cruel,  bitter,  inscrutable 
and  full  of  hideous  surprises. 

TlIK  pony  that  looked  so  pretty  was  just 
■*•  going  to  run  away  with  him — the  minute 
the  wagon  went  fast,  Farina  was  going  to  be 
hurled  out  on  his  ear. 

Why,  even  a  cream  pie  was  not  a  toothsome 
edible — it  was  something  to  be  hit  in  the  face 
with! 

And  so,  for  several  years,  we  went  on  loving 
Farina  because  he  hurt — just  as  we  do.  And 
we,  at  ten  times  his  age,  were  just  as  helpless 
to  duck  the  blows  of  life  as  he! 

Now,  Farina  retires  at  eleven.  For  some 
years  he  drew  down  the  elegant  stipend  of 
$500  a  week,  and  there  is  probably  a  tiny  sum 
in  the  family  teapot.  At  least,  he  was  well  paid 
for  his  bruises  of  body  and  soul.  He  must  feel 
seventy. 

Life  has  no  surprises  left — no  rich  and 
golden  illusions,  no  gaudy  dreams.  To  all 
intents  and  purposes,  Farina  is  an  old  man. 

True,  his  mother  hopes  to  send  him  into 
vaudeville  with  his  smaller  sister,  Mango.  It 
may  or  may  not  come  off. 

"DOB  McGOWAN,  still  father-confessor  and 
■^Fate  of  "Our  Gang,"  has  a  new  scrap  of 
ebony,  one  Stymie,  whose  real  handle  is 
Matthew  Beard. 

Thus  the  tradition  of  small,  black  Man  and 
larger,  blacker  Fate,  continues  on  the  Roach 
lot. 

But  Farina,  the  first  great  Original,  is  gone. 
His  addition  to  "Our  Gang"  was  a  stroke  of 
genius,  and  the  tiny  laborer  was  worthy  of 
his  hire. 

I  fear  we  shall  not  look  upon  his  like  again. 
He  was  the  first— and  up  to  now,  the  last — 
motion  picture  actor  to  show  us  our  own 
struggles,  aches,  terrors  and  pains. 

I,  an  old  and  war-worn  picture  fan,  mourn 
his  loss. 

Hail,  Farina,  and  farewell! 


A  Writer's  Alibi 


$ 


5,000 

In  Cash  Prizes 

By  popular  demand 
another  great 

Cut  Picture  Puzzle 
Contest 

starts  in  this  issue  of 

PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE 

{Seepage  40  for  full  particulars  regarding  Contest) 

So  that  our  readers  need  not  mis*  a 
single  issue  of  Photoplay  during  this 
contest  we  are  making  a  special  six 
month  rate  of  $1.25. 
This  special  offer  is  made  to  avoid 
disappointment.  Many  of  our  readers 
complained  last  year  because  the 
newsstands  were  sold  out  and  in 
many  instances  we  were  unable  to 
supply  back  copies.  Take  advantage 
of  our  Special  Six  Months'  Contest 
rate,  fill  out  the  coupon  below  and 
send  $1.25  (Canada  $1.50;  Foreign 
$1.75)  and  we  will  enter  your  sub- 
scription for  6  months,  starting  with 
the  July  issue. 

What  a  Subscription 

to  Photoplay 

Will  Bring  You 

— in  six  issues  of  Photoplay  hundreds 
of  pictures  of  photoplayers  and  illus- 
trations of  their  work  and  pastime. 
Scores  of  interesting  articles  about 
the  people  you  see  on  the  screen. 
Splendidly  written  short  stories,  some 
of  which  you  will  see  acted  at  your 
moving  picture  theater. 

The  truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth,  about 
motion  pictures,  the  stars,  and  the  industry. 
You  have  read  this  issue  of  Photoplay  so 
there  is  no  necessity  for  telling  you  that  it  is 
one  of  the  most  superbly  illustrated,  the  best 
written  and  the  most  attractively  printed 
magazines  published  today — and  alone  in  its 
field  of  motion  pictures. 

Send  money  order  or  check  to 

PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE 

Dept.  CP-6-31.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave. 
CHICAGO 

The*  coupon  belou-  is  for  your  convenience 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 
Dept.  CP-6-31, 

919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago. 
Gentlemen: 

DI  enclose  S1.25  (Canada,  SI. 50;  For- 
eign, SI. 75),  for  which  you  will  kindly 
enter  my  subscription  for  PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE  for  six  months,  effective  with 
the    July   issue. 


Name     

Street   Address 
Citv.  .  : 


State . 


Photui-lay   Mai.a/ine  h>k  Jim,   1931 


I  27 


sleep   ami    plenty   of   gin"      She   '  (tended   an 

empty  glass,    "ii. ii      1  in  " 

I\i  \i  R  even  mentioned  i"  1  onality  h.iir 
cuts,  Mi  <.'uiik     I  never  heard  of  one  until 
lit   up  the  subii  <  1 

••  I  In  y'lr  a    i.h  I..  I  '■  d   t" 

ire    "Tbi  (all  foi  'era  In 

I, hi  nut  ■  ■>  mm  li  "Hi   here      \  011  pa)   rit  1  \ 

■     a    tin  k     liam  ut     with    a    Dill  I 

1  I'.iiln    breath  thrown  in 

I  know  1  i 

1  rum  thai   Uliit      Hi     Name  in 
be  mentioned  tl><  name.  Mi   <,>uiik 
but  I  didn't  cati  b  it      \  1  Mi  •  Quirt    She'll 
know     incidentally,  please  remembei  me  to 

Quirk   when   \"n   tec  In  1       11 

different  1  olored  coal  for  every  Beeting  mood 

— "ami  every  ODC  of  'cm  hail  tO  wear  a  wig  '" 
hat   or   bide   iii    the   bathroom   'til   their   Bail 

grew  out  again." 

When  I  asked  her  if  long  hair  was  here  to 

stay,  [mogene  laughed  so  hard  she  got  tin- 
hiccoughs — which  we  cured  with  a  little  sugar 
and  water  and  gin.  It's  line  for  hiccoughs 
Try  it  some  time.  She  says  haircut  styles  an 
dictated  from  Paris — via  the  I".  S.  A.  She 
claims  the  American  barbers  cabled  this 
Antoine  in  Paris  to  lay  off  that  long  hair  stuff 
or  they'd  come  over  and  pour  turpentine  on 
his  pet  Pekinese  They  have  to  eat  just  like 
any  one  else — American  barbers,  I  mean. 

Well,  we  finally  got  around  to  what  you 
wanted  to  know — the  inside  stuff.  I  asked 
Imogene  why  it  was  that  women,  who  wouldn't 
tell  you  their  right  name  on  top  of  the  Wool- 
worth  flagpole,  would  crawl  between  the  sound- 
proof sheets  of  a  beauty  shop  booth  and  try  to 
drown  out  the  noise  of  a  hair  drier  blower — or 
a  blower  hair  drier — by  bellowing  the  inner- 
most secrets  of  their  love  lives  and  souls. 

Imogene  said  she'd  have  to  have  a  little 
drink  before  she'd  answer  that.  Believe  me. 
Mr.  Quirk,  that  girl  did  not  need  a  drink  and  I 
told  her  so. 

So  we  had  one  and  she  gave  me  five  good 
reasons  and  said  I  could  take  my  pick. 

The  first  one  was  that  a  lot  of  women's 
character  nowadays  is  only  skin  deep — is 
represented  by  what  you  see  from  the  outside, 
including  jewelry  and  clothes.  Put  'em  in  a 
beauty  shop,  wash  off  the  paint  and  powder, 
muss  up  the  hair  and  take  off  part  of  the 
clothes  and  what  have  you  got?  They  fall 
out  of  character,  revert  to  type  and  start 
gabbing. 

Number  two — a  woman  in  a  beauty  shop 
has  to  sit  still.  She  has  to  be  doing  something 
so  she  talks. 

THIRD — a  lot  of  these  marked-down  mamas 
delight  to  demonstrate  their  superiority  in 
public — and  preferably  to  beauty  shop  opera- 
tors who  ought  to  be  impressed  and  don't  dare 
suy  what's  running  through  their  minds.  They 
just  have  to  convince  somebody  there's  some- 
thing superior  about  them — if  it's  only  that 
their  husband  is  the  biggest  fathead  in  town. 

Fourthly — many  women  would  rather  tell 
you  how  bad  they  are  than  how  good  they  are. 
In  a  beauty  shop  they  feel  they're  among 
friends.  They  seem  to  think  the  girls  are 
br<  ad-minded,  worldly-wise  Sites  dc  joic — 
which  Imogene  indignantly  denies — who  un- 
derstand. 

Then  there's  just  something  about  a  beauty 
shop.  It  invites  confidences  and  plain-speak- 
in.;.  It's  a  place  for  the  girls  to  unload  all  the 
dirt  they  don't  dare  dish  before  friend  husband 
or  their  lady  friends.  When  a  woman 
down  to  get  prettied  up  she  just  naturally 
expects  to  find  out  what's  goint;  on.  She'd 
fed  cheated  if  she  wasn't  properly  enter- 
tained— and  couldn't  spill  a  little  lowdown  of 
her  own. 

Take  babies  for  instance.  Mr.  Quirk.  Whv 
Imogene  told  me  there  hadn't  been  an  im- 
portant baby  born  in  Hollywood  in  years  that 
the  fact  wasn't  known  in  some  beauty  shop  or 
other  at  least  six  months  before  the  little 
rascal  arrived. 


La^tLLtta 
AtijLe  ujlw± 
jjO^LAiiLa^dL  uroiti_e_ii_ ! 


ANY  DAINTY  DRESS  that  can  stand 
■l\  water  can  be  renewed  and  restored 
to  its  original  finish  with  Link.  This 
applies  to  all  these  fabrics:— chiffon, 
silk,  rayon,  all  artificial  silks,  crepe  de 
chine,  pongee,  tub  silks  and  satins, 
georgettes,  lace,  embroidery  and  net, 
lawn,  dimity,  dotted  Swiss,  batiste, 
voile,  gingham,  prints,  sateen,  cotton 
brocades,  linen,  etc. 

The  charm  of  any  fabric  depends 
largely  upon  the  dressing  that  is  in 
the  original  fabric.  This  usually  washes 
out  after  one  laundering.  But  whatever 
the  fabric,  if  you  use  Linit,  you  put  back 
that  original  charm  and  freshness. 

It  means  that  one's  pretty  things 
continue  to  look  new  and  feel  smooth 
and  luxurious  as  long  as  they  last  — 
if  they  are  properly  Linited. 

Go  through  your  wardrobe  and 
renew  your  dresses  and  slips  the  Limit 
way.  Liniting  will  practically  renew 
every  washable  dress  you  now  have. 

Have  a  clear  mental  picture  of  the 
way  the  frock  looked  when  new. 
You  can   duplicate  it  the  Unit  way. 

LIN  IT    IS    SOLD    BY 

YOUR    GROCER 


To  Prepare  Li  nit  for Starching 

1 — Chiffon.  GengtUt,  Crepe  de  Cbint.  etc. — 
Dissolve  X  teaspoon  Linit  in  S  cup  water 
and  add  35*  cups  warm  water. 
2—  iV:.  "Rayon  and  Ar::hrial  Silk  —  Follow 
preceding  directions,  using  1  teaspoon  Linit. 
5—Lauv.  Dimity.  Veil-:,  etc.  —  Dissolve  '. 
tablespoon  Linit  in  ?,'  cup  water,  add  3S'  cups 
warm  wa:erand cook  clear.  For  Organdy  u<e  ', 
tablespoon  Linit  and  follow  above  directions. 
4 — Gngl  .-'.J  Mmxrtud  Fabrics 

—  Dissolve    1    tablespoon   Linit   in   5£    Cup 
v.ater,  add  3 %  cups  hot  water  and  cook  clear. 


128 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 


You  never  lose  Ivory 
in  your  bath  — 
it  floats  ! 

q  q  4  4/too  %    pure 


mmiu/tyQ 


jm 


The  screen's 

greatest    celebrities    have 

honored    Hotel    Sherman 

Will  Rogers 
Mary  Pickford 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Constance  Talmadge 
Lupe  Velez 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Vilma  Banky 
Rod  La  Rocque 
Lily  Damita 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Ronald  Colman 
Gloria  Swanson 
Wallace  Beery- 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Ralph  Forbes 

Single  Room  with  BatS 
$2.50,  $3.00,  $4.00 

and  $5.00 
Double  Room  with  Bath 
$4.00,  $5.00,  $6.00 
and  $8.00 


find  luxurious 
comfort  and 
hospitality  un- 
surpassed at 

CHICAGO/ 


DRIVE 

Your  Cor 

Right   into 

Hot«l 
Sherman 


111 

n 


VOAMGE 


1 

■!■••< 


lllll 


fi^«  >i  ■■■!■! 
RANDOLPH  •  CLARK  ■  LAKE  -  LA  SALLE  •  STREETS 


HOTEL  SHERMAN 


SUBSCRIBE   FOR   PHOTOPLAY 

Yearly  Subscription:  S2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and  Cuba; 
S3. 00  Canada;  $3.50  to  foreign  countries.  Remittance  should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal 
or  express  money  order. 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE,  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO,  ILL. 


Imogene  swears  the  beauty  shop  girls 
positively  are  not  gossipy  or  indiscreet.  She 
says  not  one  of  them  would  repeat  anything 
she  hears  to  a  soul,  except  maybe  men,  women 
and  children  between  seven  and  seventy-nine. 
Besides,  how  can  it  be  a  secret  when  it's  broad- 
cast against  the  noise  of  a  battery  of  vibrators 
in  a  voice  like  a  steam  train? 

•"TO  make  it  a  lot  more  fun  you  never  know 
■*•  who's  going  to  be  on  the  other  side  of  those 
vertical  sheets  between  the  booths.  Imogene 
says  it's  not  at  all  unusual  to  have  a  girl  talking 
about  her  boy  friend  with  his  wife  on  one  side 
and  his  former  wife  on  the  other — both  taking 
it  all  in. 

Well,  anyway — one  thing  led  to  another  and 
just  about  then  who  should  hammer  at  the 
front  door  but  some  of  Imogene's  little  pals. 
She  let  them  in  and  introduced  me  all  around — 
by  my  right  name — and  we  had  a  drink — may- 
be two  drinks.  I  didn't  think  anything  of  it 
at  the  time,  Mr.  Quirk.  Well,  they  left  after  a 
while  and  Imogene  and  I  resumed  our  dis- 
cussion about  life,  love  and  letters,  and  when  I 
finally  looked  at  my  watch  it  was — would  you 
believe  it! — after  four  A.  U. 

Even  that  was  all  right.  I  used  a  swell 
alibi  on  the  wife — the  one  you  told  me  about 
that  time — and  it  worked  like  a  charm.  The 
next  day  was  okay,  too — except  for  a  dreadful 
rock  fight  going  on  inside  my  skull.  I  think  I 
got  hold  of  some  bad  ice  at  Imogene's.  But 
the  following  day,  a  Thursday — 

I  was  walking  down  the  boulevard  in  the 
morning  when  I  met  Al  Cohn.  He  winked  and 
said:  "I  hear  you've  got  a  crush  on  Imogene 
Fitzfancy."  I  told  him  to  shush — and  walked 
on.  Three  more  guys  stopped  me  and  said  the 
same  thing.  I  was  slightly  disturbed  and,  as  I 
was  soon  to  learn,  not  without  cause.  Be- 
cause that  afternoon,  Mr.  Quirk,  my  wife 
went  in  for  a  shampoo — and  then  she  went 
home!  And  did  I  catch  Hail  Columbia?  I'll 
say  I  did — through  the  front  door.  She 
wouldn't  even  let  me  in — then  or  now. 

So  you  can  see  why  a  story  on  beauty  shops 
is  out  as  far  as  I'm  concerned.  You'd  better 
send  one  of  your  women  writers  to  do  it — and 
tell  her  to  watch  her  step  and  be  sure  to  give  a 
phony  name. 

IN  the  meantime  I'd  be  very  grateful  if  you'd 
write — or  wire — my  wife  and  explain  I  was 
really  on  an  assignment  for  you.  Of  course 
you  know  and  I  know  everything  was  entirely 
innocent  and  aboveboard  but  she  seems  to  get 
funny  ideas,  and  a  word  from  you  might  help. 
The  sooner  you  do  it  the  better  I'll  like  it. 
I'd  at  least  like  to  be  able  to  get  in  the  house 
long  enough  to  pick  up  a  clean  shirt  and  my 
other  suit  of  clothes. 

Please  extend  my  best  wishes  to  Mrs. 
Quirk. 

Yours   very   truly, 

BOGART  ROGERS 


Pale  Hands  I  Loved 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  4-8  1 


For  Gladys  Brown,  who  was  not  a  dumb  bun- 
ny, had  begun  to  realize  that  here  was  no 
callow  youth  to  be  turned  aside  with  a  gesture, 
to  be  laughed  away,  to — if  necessary — be 
given  a  purposeful  smack  in  the  jaw.  Here 
was  a  go-getter,  who  wouldn't  take  no — or  the 
less  gentle  equivalents  of  no — for  an  answer. 
Kent  Carrington  left  Gladys  Brown  at  her 
door,  after  their  first  evening  together.  And 
Gladys,  her  hand  tingling  to  the  pressure  of 
his  hand,  went  up  to  her  room. 

If  he  asks  me."  she  told  herself,  as  she 
crossed  the  threshold  of  her  room,  "if  he  asks 
me,  I'll  marry  him.  Such  things  have  hap- 
pened, lots  of  executives  have  married  clerks 
(believe  it  or  not,  they  have!).     I  can't  ex- 


pect,  now,  in  find  iny  ideal      No  girb  evei 

in. in  v     llicir     dream     BMfl  ihc 

bdog  funny,  dther).     It  be  sski  dm        ." 

Bl  r,   after   their   thud   evening    together 
Gla  'l  tint  ki  in  Carrington  didn't 

w  .111 1  to  in  i 

> .       rirhe!"  be  said  o\  ei  the 
on  tint  tlnnl  evening,  "l  wish  t.>  gosh  1  '< i  bad 
.1  break  .mil  met  you  tirst — " 

lill>   ( Had)  s  sipped  hi  "she  would 

have  preferred  a  large  i  up,  .it  tli.it 

Wh.it  il"  you  mean     first?"  she  queried, 

ami   the   tried    to   make   her   tone   nom  li.il.int 

K.  nt    Carrington    sighed,    and    lighted    .i 

"First,"  in-  said,  "while  I  was  sin 

1  met  my  m 
"Oh,    said  Gladys,  "so  you're  married  " 
Kent  bleu  a  perfect  smoke  ring  into  the  aii 
■  \  c-,"  Ik-  told  the  girl,  "I'm  married.    In  a 

way     1  say  'in  a  way  because  my  mania 

SUCh  a  false  alarm       \|v   wife  doesn't   under- 
stand me.    She  never  has  " 

l\^    arched    her    penciled    lirows.       She 

yawned    behind    the    tips   of    her   perfectly 
manicured  fingi 

lid  Gladys     Ami  then — 

it'>  what  they  all  say  " 

"In  my  case,"  said  Kent  Carrington,  and 

liis    voice    shook    with    carefully    modulated 
emotion,  "it  happens  to  he  true  " 

"I'd  like  a  cigarette,  myself."  said  Gladys. 

'  I  can  blow  as  pretty  rings  as  you  can  " 

"Baby!"  breathed  Kent  Carrington. 
"Miss   Baby,   to  you!"  answered  Gladys 

"You    little   ol.l    last    year's   married    man — " 
So  she  spoke,   lightly,  after  the   manner  of 

her  kind.      Hut   when    Kent   took   her   home, 

that  evening,  and   tried   to  kiss  her,  Gladys 

slapped  him.    And — 

"You  were  right,  after  all.  Rudy."  she  said 

to  a  photograph,  as  she  walked  slowly,  wearily, 

across  her  room. 


AND  then — then  it  began  all  over  again. 
With  Kent  Carrington  haunting  Gladys 
Brown's  counter,  and  Gladys  Brown  coldly 
ignoring  his  invitations.  And  then  came  a 
day  when  the  plot  thickened.  When  Kent 
Carrington  fell  into  step,  beside  her,  as  she 
left  the  employees'  entrance  of  the  store,  at 
night.     And,  baldly,  stated  facts. 

I  suppose,"  he  said,  "that  you  realize. 
Gladys,  that  you're  apt  to  be  out  of  a  jol) — 
in  the  near  future?" 

"Yeah?"  said  Gladys.  "Unless?"  she 
questioned. 

"Unless,"  said  Kent  Carrington,  "you're  a 
little  more  polite  to  your  superiors." 

"I  thought."  remarked  Gladys  Brown, 
"that  they  only  pulled  that  line  in  the  ten- 
twenty-thirt'.  But,"  she  hesitated,  "this  is  a 
bad  year  to  be  out  of  work.  Suppose  I  told 
you  1  might  scare  up  a  free  evening,  later  in 
the  week?    What  then—" 

"Why  then."  said  Kent  Carrington,  softly, 
"why  then  I  think  that  everything  might 
work  out  all  right!" 

And  so.  later  in  the  week,  Gladys  Brown 
made  an  engagement  to  dine  with  her — shall 
ly — superior?  Only  it  was  different,  this 
engagement,  from  the  dates  of  the  past.  In 
the  vernacular  of  the  department  store.  Kent 
Carrington  had  "something  on"  Gladys.  He'd 
demonstrated  his  power  by  forcing  her.  al- 
most, to  make  an  engagement.  He'd  demon- 
strated it,  even  further,  by  giving  the  e; 
ment  a  devastating  locale. 

"We'll  have  supper."  he  said,  "together, 
just  you  and  I.  Not  in  some  smoky  restau- 
rant, not  in  a  hick  night  club.  We'll  dine 
toother  in  my  studio  .  .   .   " 

idys  Brown  didn't  blush.  Why  blush? 
But  when  she  answered  she  was  fighting  for 
time. 

"How  about  the  wife?"  she  questioned. 
"What'll  she  say — if  any?" 

"My  wife,"  sai  I  Kent  shortly,  "is  at  home. 


Photoplay  Maoastni   roi  June,  1931  i  20. 

ARE  YOU  POWDERED  TO  YOUR 
SATISFACTION -and  HIS? 


Your  powderl  What  would  you  do  without  it!  Yet  usual  powders  do  have  their  faults — don't 
they?  They  fail — so  often.  Soon  after  powdering  the  distressing  shine  is  back — just  the  right 
velvety  beauty  is  lacking — or  the  fragrance  does  not  altogether  please.   Still  you  must  use  powder. 


Be  assured  of  this:  once  you  try  Princess  Pat 
— with  its  exclusive  base  of  soft,  caressing 
almond — you  will  say,  not  that  you  couldn't 
get  along  without  powder,  but  that  you 
eouldn'  t  get  along  without  Princess  Pat  powder. 

Just  the  Invisible  Beauty  You've  Longed  For.  It  has 
been  every  woman's  dream  to  discover  a 
powder  that  would  velvet  the  skin,  impart 
patrician  beauty,  yet — as  powder — remain 
invisible.  You  have  dreamed  of  this  magic 
powder,  longed  for  its  cool,  delightful  "feel." 
visioned  it>  perfection!  But  have  you  found 
it?  Yes,  if  you've  used  Princess  Pat;  no,  if 
\  ou  haven't. 

Bow,  you  may  say,  can  one  powder  be  so 
different?    Ah.  but  that's  the  story.    There  is 
no  other  powder  in   the  world  like  Prii 
Pat.    The  fine  domestic  powders  are  not  like 
it;  nor  the  imported. 

The  Exclusive   Almond   Base   is  the  Chief  Difference. 

Usual   powders   are   made   with    a    base   of 

ii.    Prince--  Pal  .  but 

believes  the  more  costly,  the 
more  soothing,  clinging 
almond  infinitely  superior. 
Millions   of    women    using 


PHixcr«?  Pat  I.ip  Rofge — a 
new  sensation — nothing 
For  U  dies  what  no  other  Up 
route  has  cttr  dour.  Princess 
I  p  Rout*  colors  thai  insult 
.  of  lips  as  veil  as 
outside.    It  Is  truly  intlelibU. 


Prin 


cess 

CHICAGO,  U.  8.  A.    (IX  CANADA.  93  CHT/BCH  ST  ,  TORONTO) 


Prince>s  Pat  believe  this,  too.    For  Pri: 
I'.it  goes  on  like  a  caress,  as  softly  as  B  l 
brushed   across  the  cheek.     It    has  a   certain 
"pliancy."  Thus  when  you  -mile.  Pri 
remains   supremely   smooth   over    I 
lines.    It  is  as  though  nature  bad  given  J 
new   and   perfect   skin.     Of  COUTtt  it   clings 
longer  than  any  powder  you  may  try. 

Keeps  the  Skin   Healthy  — Combats  Blemishes, 
really   select  powder   for   imm  rity, 

for  make-up  that  is  per/action  it- If.    This 
perfection  Prii  But,  in   ad- 

dition, the  almond  I  '.in. 

Think  of  that,  when  you  recall   t; 
powders  parch  and  dry"  the  skin.     Prir 
Pat.  on  the  contrar  and  softens;  it 

benefits  the  most  sensitive  skin. 

Princess    Pat    prevents    coarse   pores  —  and 
blemishes.    Its  almond,  held  ii. 
anil  hours  with  the  skin,  is  constantly  brine- 
ing  permanent'  beauty.    And  you'll  definitely 

notice  all   the<o  advant:   ■ 
Two  weight?.    Sold  everywhere. 


get  this  Week  End 

Set-SPECIAL 

J  tic 
ity  a  month's  tup; 
almond  base  pointer  and  FIVE 

•■•'Udoir  tax. 


PKINi    ESS    PA  1  .  I>.  pi    A-1566. 

B.  Wills  Bl ..  Chicago 
Knrlmwt   find    2'>c  tor  which   s«nd   me  the    , 
J'KIM  1  3B   PAT  Wr.l-l.iiil  Sat. 

.    int    

Street    .  

Cliy  and  Slat. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,   1931 


JLlx  S  now 

8  full  A( 


ours 


New  8-hour  lip  coloring  formulated 
on  entirely  new  color  principle.  Just 
discovered  in  Paris  by  Edna  Wallace 
Hopper.  Waterproof.  Wearproof.  In- 
delible. Ends  constant  "making-up." 


I"         f    /  m 
8'     r4    I 


You  apply  uhen  you  go  out 

Edna  Wallace  Hopper,  famous  stage 
beauty,  discovered  it  in  Paris.  A  lip  color 
that  banishes  all  the  smearing  and  fleeting  life 
of  present  ways  in  make-up.  An  utterly  new- 
kind  of  lipstick. 

She  sent  it  to  Hollywood,  and  it  swept 
through  the  studios  like  a  storm.  Old-time 
lipsticks  were  discarded  overnight. 

Now — Kissproof,  the  world's  largest  makers 
of  lipsticks,  has  obtained  the  formula  from 
Miss  Hopper,  and  offers  its  amazing  results  to 
you.  A  totally  New  type  of  lipstick,  different 
from  any  other  you  have  ever  tried  — 
Kissproof  or  any  other  kind. 

You  put  it  on  before  you  go  out.  Then  for- 
get about  it.  Six  hours,  eight  hours  later  your 
lips  are  still  naturally  lovely! 

No  more  constant  making-up.  No  more 
fuss  and  bother.  Do  you  wonder  that  women 
are  flocking  to  its  use? 

Utterly  .\£R"  Principle 

It  is  different  in  formula  and  result  from  any 
previously  known  lipstick.    It  does  what  no 

Stop  Pain, Remove  ]  ^ 

CORNS'1 


Eight  hours  later — lovely  lips! 

other  lipstick  does  or  has  ever  done  .  .  . 
actually  seems  to  last  indefinitely. 

That's  because  the  color  pigment  it  em- 
bodies has  never  before  been  used  in  a  lipstick. 
It  holds  where  others  smear  and  wear — yet  it 
leaves  no  trace  of  greasy  residue. 

Then,  too,  it  is  a  true,  Natural  color.  Thus 
it  ends  that  artificial  smirk  women  have  tried 
for  years  to  overcome.  A  color  that  glorifies 
the  lips  to  pulse-quickening  loveliness — trust 
the  French  for  that! 

What  To  Ask  For 
To  obtain,  simply  ask  for  the  New  Kissproof 
Indelible  Lipstick  (or  Lip  and  Cheek  Rouge). 
And — remember  it  is  Not  the  "same"  as  any 
other  lipstick  known.  Don't  believe  that  just 
because  you  have  tried  Kissproof  before — 
that  you  have  tried  this  one.  You  haven't; 
this  is  Entirely  New. 

Owing  to  tremendous  demand,  the  price  is  as 
little  as  50c — Edna  Wallace  Hopper  paid  $2.50 
for  the  original  in  Paris.  Two  forms  at  all  toilet 
counters — lipstick  and  lip  and  cheek  rouge. 

Lipsticks — Black  and  red  enamel  swivel  case.  75c.  Black 
and  gold  case,  50c.  Lip  and  Ch^ek  Rouge — purse  size, 
red  and  black  enamel  vanity  ui.h  mirror,  50c.  Newest 
Parisian  shades:  Theatrical,  Natural,  Raspberry, 
Orange. 

97^  NEW 

Jvissprooj 

Sfideiwie  lipstick 


Newlu  Discovered  Formula 


ONE    DROP    DOES    IT 

TOUCH  the  most  painful  corn  with 
this  amazing  liquid.  Acts  like  an 
anaesthetic.  In  three  seconds  pain  is 
deadened.  You  wear  tight  shoes,  dance, 
walk  again  in  comfort! 

No  cutting — that   is  dangerous.    This 


way  loosens  it.  Soon  you  peel  the  whole 
corn  off  with  your  fingers. 

Doctors  approve  it  as  safe.  Millions 
employ  it  to  gain  quick  relief.  There  is 
no  other  like  it. 

Money  back  if  not  delighted. 

<  i  f±  PTC      IX"      World's 
ULId"!   I        Fastest  Way 


She  never  comes  to  my  studio.     She  doesn't, 
in  fact,  know  that  I  have  a  studio." 

Gladys  was  still  fighting  for  time. 

"Well,  how  do  you  rate  one?"  she  questioned. 
"A  studio,  I  mean?     You're  not  an  artist — " 

"Ah,"  said  Kent  Carrington,  "I  am,  in  my 
own  way!" 

.5  you — "  murmured  Gladys.  But  she 
allowed  herself  to  be  cajoled  into  writing  down 
the  studio's  address;  into  promising  to  arrive 
there  at  a  given  hour.  She  didn't  want  to 
go — believe  it  or  not,  more  working  girls  are 
ultra  conventional  than  aren't.  And  Gladys 
had  never  dined  alone  with  a  man  in  his 
apartment. 

"Hut  what's  the  use  of  telling  him?"  she 
asked  herself.  "What's  the  use?  It'd  only 
make  him  have  ideas — " 

What  she  meant  was  that  it  would  have 
added  a  certain  piquancy  to  what,  in  Kent 
Carrington's  mind,  was  an  old  situation. 


•"THE  engagement  was  made  in  the  morning, 
-1-  and  it  was  to  happen  that  very  evening.  So, 
all  through  the  day,  Gladys  was  fidgety.  She 
made  out  two  incorrect  sales  slips,  she  sent 
one  C.  O.  D.  as  a  charge,  she  answered  one 
customer  sharply,  and  she  was  fresh  to  the 
department  buyer.  When  questioned  by  a 
fellow  clerk,  she  was  oddly  snappish. 

"I  got  a  right  to  be  short  with  you,  haven't 
I?"  she  told  the  questioning  clerk.  "I  got 
something  on  my  mind." 

"Besides  your  hair?"  asked  the  clerk,  eye- 
ing the  Garbo  coiffure  scathingly. 

But  the  day  wore  on,  somehow.  And 
Gladys  Brown,  as  the  hours  piled  up  one  upon 
the  other,  told  herself  that  she  had  made  the 
only  logical  decision. 

"A  girl's  got  to  eat,"  she  argued  on  the  way 
back  to  the  store,  from  luncheon,  as  she  saw  a 
long,  bedraggled  line  of  supplicants  standing 
hopelessly  in  front  of  the  office  marked  "Em- 
ployment Bureau."  "A  girl's  got  to  have 
clothes  ...  A  girl  can't  be  true,"  this  wist- 
fully, "all  of  her  life  to  something  she's  never 
had." 

But  the  last  thought  was  mother  to  the 
decision  that  she'd  not  go  home  to  dress  for 
the  "just  we  two"  studio  supper. 

"Carrington  can  take  it  or  leave  it,"  said 
Gladys  to  herself,  "if  he  don't  like  me  in  my 
working  clothes,  I  should  care." 

What  she  really  meant  was  (shades  of  O. 
Henry's  Dulcie!)  that  she  didn't  want  to  face 
Rudolph  Yalentino's  photograph,  on  her 
bureau,  as  she  dressed  for  the,  possibly,  de- 
cisive date.  One  doesn't  even  flaunt  one's 
mental  infidelity — not  when  said  infidelity  is 
forced  upon  one! 

But,  somehow,  the  day  wore  on.  Until,  with 
the  late  afternoon,  Gladys  was  ready  to  scream 
with  nervousness.  Her  counter  had  an  hour  of 
little  business — she  had  plenty^  of  time,  far  too 
much  time,  for  introspection.  So  she  felt  a 
sense  of  sudden  relief  that  was  almost  akin  to 
release,  when  she  saw  approaching  her.  down 
the  aisle,  the  errand  boy  from  Kent  Carring- 
ton's office. 

THE  boy  carried  a  smug  smile,  and  a  note  in 
a  wide,  white  envelope.  He'd  carried  the 
smile,  and  similar  white  envelopes,  to  Gladys, 
before.  Gladys  disliked  his  air  of  juvenile  so- 
phistication, but  she  felt  relief  just  the  same. 
The  note  might  be  breaking  the  engagement — 
it  had  been  done.  Every  once  in  so  often  there 
was  an  emergency  meeting  of  executives;  there 
might  have  been  such  a  meeting  called,  this 
evening,  on  the  spur  of  the  moment. 

The  errand  boy  approached.  He  smirked. 
He  struck  an  attitude  and  extended  the  letter. 

"Here's  a  valentine,  sweetheart."  he  told 
Gladys  shrilly,  "a  nice,  pretty  valentine  .  .  ." 

But  Gladys  took  the  envelope,  forcibly,  from 
his  tantalizing  fingers. 

"Chase  yourself,  button  face,"  she  told  him. 
And  tore  open  the  envelope.  Tore  it  open,  and 
read  the  message  inside,  and  sighed  sharply. 


for  it   \v:i-n"l   pi  nuiil. 

th.ii  lettei    It  mi  merely  delivcrinj 

"Before  the  stun-  closes,"  wrote  Kenl  I 
rington,  on  one  "t  in^  memo  sheets,  "run  up 
to  the  mush  department  tnd  gel  sobw 
w.ili  /.  records     I  have  ■  feeling  that  we  ">•>> 

W.llll    tO  d.llll  ( 

Krnt  Carrington  «nu  the  Beau  Brununell, 
.'i   the  advertising  profession      He 
rather  Fan  led  Ins  ability  to  traits 

Charge  them  to  m\  scoount,"  ended  the 
note       Miss  Miller  will  understand  " 

"  \n<l  hon  '  '  eja<  ulated  <  Had 

Hnt  just  the  same,  in  the  last  twenty  min 
utes  i  ■  ng  time,  she  gol  herself  excused 

And  went  draggingly  up  i<>  the  departmenl 
where  sheet  m  rds  and  ra 

sold,  under  the  able  eye  of  one  Mi 
Bertha  Miller,  who  sometimes  ate  luncheon 
with  Gladys,  and  who  did  understand. 

Wh.it  you  got,"  Gladys  asked  of  her  friend, 
,-in  the  line  of  mush  music?  You  know,  soft, 
dreamy  staff.  I'm  charging  them  to  Caning- 
ton 

"One's  born  even  minute,"  observed 
Miller.   "I  didn't  think.  Gladys,  you'd  fall  for 
his  line    And  why  don't  In  have  a  radio,  any 

Gladys  shruggi  d. 


Photom  o   M  \i. \/im   foe  Junk,  1931  I 

HIS    ONLY    EXERCISE    IS    AT 

HIS     MEALS    ....    YET    HE    HAS 

"ATHLETE'S  FOOT" 

■ 


tlkK  a  lot  of  as  who  enjoy  the  good 
I   things  of  life,  he's  not   .1-  active  a-  he 

need  to  be.    Lad,  while  his  feel  an  great 

weight-carriers,  you  could  hardly  call  him 
athletic. 

Nevertheless.  1 1 1  i  —  <-a-\  -;;oing  epicure  has 
an  annoying  c.i-e  of  '  Vthlctc's  Foot.**  It 
hardly  seems  the  correct   thing   for  a   man 

of  liis  standing  to  be  bothered  with  that 

rash-like  eruption.*  that  moi-t  white  skin, 

between  bis  toes.  I  le'd  forget  it  if  he  could, 
hut  it  intrudes.  There's  itching — end  ra  inges 

—  which  can  effecti\  elv  -pod  a  hu-iiie--  d.i\  . 
And  he  doesn't  even  know  what  to  call  it, 
or  how  to  get  rid  of  it. 

Are  YOU  guarding  against  this  stealthy 
infection,  so  easily  tracked  into  homes  ? 

"Athlete's  Foot*1  may  attack  any  of  u-.*  no 
matter  how  immaculate,  because  it  per- 
ststs  in  the  cleanest  place-.  A  tiny  vegetable 
paranitr.  tinon  trichophyton,  general!]  causes 
tin-  ringworm  infection  and  it  thrives  in  the 
very  places  where  we  go  for  cleanliness 
— on  the  edges  of  showers  and  swimming 
jmm)Is;  on  locker-and  dressing-room   floor-; 

*  WATCH   FOR   THESE   DISTRESS  SIGNALS 
THAT  WARN   OF  "ATHLETE'S  FOOT" 

Thoucli  "Athlete*!  Foot*1  i-»  <-au«ed  by  the  cerm — tinm 
tndupkg/tBH  —  ila  early  Macr*  manifr-t  tbeoMelTei  m 
several  ihlTrri-nt  \..o«.  ii-ii.illv  l>.n.i-<'n  ilie  iof< — 
Mutiiiinir-  l.v  redness,  KMMtaaet  by  slBBMracfcs,  often 
l>v  liny  itching  hli-I'-rs.  The  akin  may  turn  while. 
tliK-k  and  mni-t  or  it  may  oeretop  dr\  ne-*  with  linle 
M-alei*.  Anv  one  nf  thrw  frills  fitr  immrrtiatr  trmtmrnl! 
If  the  ca-e  apjM-ars  .icrr.n  jlt-il  and  doe.  not  readily 
yield  10  Absorbine  Jr.,  consult  your  doctor  without  delay. 


Seymour  saw  Bebe  Daniels  wearing 
this  outfit  in  "The  Maltese  Falcon" 
and  told  us  to  tell  you  how  smart  it  is. 
The  white  straw  turban,  gloves, 
flower  and  imported  white  kid  boots 
are  perfect  complements  for  the  blue 
and  white  silk  shirting  jacket  frock. 
To  the  head  of  the  fashion  class,  Bebe 


in    gymnasiums.     \nd    it    i-   continually 

tracked  into  oountleaa  bom  -. 

Ilium  live  and  thri\  e  for  month-  in  \  our 
own  -jink  -.iikI  -|  ..I  n  hat  liroom:  in  the  mat; 
on  any  damp  Moor-.    \nd  it  cau-e-  infection 

and  re-infection  with  great  persistence. 
That  is  whj  so  many  people  have  " A 1 1  ■  i  • 

Foot"  that  -v  ■  •■  1  Sec  mention  of  it  in  the 
papers   ever\  where.    .N.w    facts    ahoiit    the 

spread  of  "Athlete's  Foot,**  t-ays  the  San 

I'ranei-eo  I  \ a  miner. -how  that  among  3,  1<M» 
freshmen  at  one  of  the  large  universities, 

53%   suffered    from   the  di-ea-e.    And    The 

S<  ientific  American  report-  that  "  \thlete*8 

I  OOt"  has  come  to  he  a  commonU  known 
condition.  \i-ain,  the  I  .  S.  Public  Health 
Service  says  that  '  <u  /<  <w  half  of  all  adults 
sufjrr  from  it  at  tome  tinir."  I  hi  re  1-  -mall 
doubt  that  to, l.i%  tin-  ringworm  germ  is 
a  menace  toeveryvne. 

It  has  been  found  that  Absorbine  Jr. 

KILLS  this  ringworm  germ 

"  Vthletc's  Foot"  may  start  in  a  number  of 

different  ways.*  All  of  them,  it  i-  ■greed, 

are  generally  canard  1>\  the  ringworm  germ. 

And  exhaust i\  e  laboratory  te-i-  ha\  e  -how  n 
that  Absorbine  Jr.  penetrate-  lle-hhke  ti-- 

snes  deeply  and.  wherever  it  penetrates,  it 
kills  the  ringworm  germ.  Results  in  clinics 

ha\e  confirmed  the-e  laboratory  tests. 

Examine  YOUR  feet  tonight 
It  might  not  be  a  bad  idea  to  examine  your 
feet  tonight  for  symptoms*  of  "\tli'- 
Foot.*1  \t  the  first  aicn  of  any  "»'■  -\  mptom, 
begin  the  free  use  of  Abeornine  Jr. — dooae 
it  on  morning  and  night  and  nflrr  rrrry  ex- 

noanre  of  sour  ion  feel  on  iamp  floats. 

Absorbine  Jr.  has  been  so  effective  that 
siib-titutes  arc  -oin.time-  offered.  Don  t 
ezped  relief  from  a  "ju-t  a-  good."  There 
is  nothing  el-e  like    \h-orbine  Jr.  Yotl  can 

get  it  at  all  dmg  -tore 1  I  ,25  a  bottle.  1  or 

a  free  sample,  write  \\  .  I".  YoUBC,  Inc..  I  •  '> 
I  vman  street. Springfield.  Mass.  InCanada: 
Lvman  Building,  Montreal. 


U/d 

sure 


X-Bazin  is  the 
simple  and  re- 
liable way  to  re- 
move unwanted 
hair.  You  spread 
this  creamy  de- 
pilatory over 
your  legs  or  un- 
der arms  .  .  and 
the  hair  van- 
ishes complete- 
ly—leaving your 
skin  smooth, 
white  and  hair- 
less. No  blue, 
shaved  look— 
and  regrowth 
is  discouraged. 

Order  X-Bazin  to- 
day from  drug  or 
department  store— 
50c  a  generous 
tube.  Sample  tubes 
10c  at  five-and-ten- 
cent  stores. 

X-Bazin  comes  also 
in  powder  Jorm. 

Hall  &  Ruckel,  Inc. 
Established  1848 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

"I  guess  he  has  a  radio,"  she  said.  "And 
say,  don't  ask  any  more  foolish  questions. 
'This,'  "she  was  quoting  from  a  certain  notice 
pasted  in  the  wash  rooms  of  the  store,  "  'is  the 
era  of  unemployment.  We  demand  efficiency 
and  willingness — '  "  Gladys  laughed  wryly. 

Mis^  .Miller  shrugged,  but  the  shrug  was  not 
unsympathetic. 

"  Well,"  she  said,  "  I'll  give  this  month's  list 
the  once  over.  I  s'pose  it's  waltzes  you  want — " 
Gladys  nodded. 

•And  by  the  way,"  Miss  Miller  added, 
''while  you're  waiting,  here's  something  you'll 
be  interested  in."  She  handed  Gladys  a  round, 
black  disc.  '"Take  that  into  one  of  the  booths, 
and  play  it  off — " 

Gladys  took  the  record,  idly.  She  didn't 
bother,  at  first,  to  read  the  name  printed  on 
its  center. 

"What  is  it?"  she  asked.    "Why  do  you — " 

Miss  Miller  was  already  thumbing  through 
a  catalogue. 

She  answered  slowly. 

"  It's  your  favorite  him."  said  she  fl  told  you 
that  the  two  girls  had  lunched  together,  and 


VBAZIN 

Aemjcrv&d    H  A  I  K 


•ONE 

HOUR  EACH 
EVENING- 

10  Evenings 

Spend  that  much  time  on  a 
rBuescher  Saxophone  and  you'll 
^surprised  what  you  can  do.  In  90 
days  y  on  can  join  a  band  or  orchestra. 
Twoor  three  simple  lessonsgiveyou^ttKve 
B93    ~^T   e<Jjy$/<jr/.ButonlywithaBuescheris»7z/>/V 

frogress  assured.  Free  Trial.  Easy  Terms.  See  your 
ocal  Buescher  Dealer  or  send  postal  for  beautiful 
catalog.  No  obligation.  6  days'  free  trial.  Easy  terms. 
10  evenings  now  may  start  you  on  the  road  to  fame. 

HUESCHER 

Band  Instrument  Co.,  gQ9  Buescher  Bill.,  Elkhart,  Ind. 


R 


FOR  HMR  aiSIO  SCALP  — 

ingle  bottle  corrects  scalp  irrita- 
tions; a  Proven  Germicide,  deli- 
cately perfumed:  safe  for  adults 

and  children.  World's  largest  seller  at 
Dnitrsrists,  Barbers  Beauty  Parlors. 


«im:M:bd=H»! 


Foot  Troubles  No  More 

Burning,  aching,  tender,  swollen,  puffed, 
calloused,  torturing  feet  no  longer  nec- 
essary. Cal-O-Cide  masters  foot  troubles. 
Don't  be  a  cripple.  One  application  and 
you  are  a  new  person.  Quick  relief  like 
magic.  At  all  druggists  35c.  Send  post 
card  for  free  booklet  on  "Care  of  Feet." 
Medco  Co.,  Dcpt.  I.-fc,  Dayton,  Ohio 


Calocide  foot  remedy 


lunching  inspires  a  certain  amount  of  confi- 
dence!;.   "It's  the  Valentino  record — " 

Gladys  stared  down,  swiftly,  at  the  letters 
of  gold  that  stood  out  from  the  black  disc. 
She  tried  vainly  to  make  her  voice  even,  as 
she  spoke. 

"How  come?"  she  asked.  "How'd  they  get 
this?  He's  been  dead,"  her  voice  broke,  "so 
-" 

bliss  Miller  had  gone  to  the  shelves  where 
the  new  records  were  kept.  Her  answer  came 
as  if  from  a  distance. 

"He  made  it  for  a  friend,"  she  said,  "at 
least,  I  think  he  did.  Ever  so  long  ago,  but  it's 
just  been  brought  out,  this  year.  I  don't 
know  how,  or  why.  .  .  .  It's  one  of  those 
Indian  Love  Lyrics." 

But  Gladys  Brown  hadn't  waited  for  Miss 
Miller  to  finish  the  explanation.  She  was 
already  in  one  of  the  booths  where  prospective 
purchasers  try  over  records.  The  door  to  the 
booth  was  already  shut.  She  was  already  fit- 
ting the  disc  onto  a  talking  machine.  Fitting 
it  with  fingers  that  shook. 

And  then,  as  she  turned  on  the  current,  the 


Joan  Marsh  shows  you  how  a  good  sport  should  look.    Brown  and  tan 
tweed  suit  with  matching  turban — brown  and  white  low-heeled  shoes 

with  socks 


Photo*]  w  m  igazini   i  oa  Juke,  1931 


'  J3 


inn  e  i  tine  I  be  vol  •  1 1  • »  the  had  never 
heard,  t>u t  the  vofa  e  "i  whii  ii  ^ii<-  had  dreamed 
//m  i 

I'll.-  hands, "  ii  "1  loved,  be 

tide  the  Sbalimar.  ,        Where  are  you  now? 
.  .  .  Who  In-,  beneath  your  spell?  .  .  ."  So  it 
wcni.  nftl)     s"  it  irent,  all  through  thi 
verse  iii  tin-  Kashmiri  Song 

Ami  then,  •>>  the  tears  >t I  in  the  listening 

girl's  eyes,  as  her  hand  pressed  down  o\  ei  her 
heart,  the  second  verse  began  tad  then,  aftei 
a  while,  tin-  third  vei  te 

Pale  hands,  pink  tipped  -"  began  the 
third  vi 

U  uli  .1  little  cry,  ( iladys  raised  her  bands 
they  iliiln't  belong  t<>  her,  almost    away 

from  their  place  »vir  her  heart.  She  raised 
them  until,  not  very  Steady,  they  were  Spread 

out  before  her  eyes,  liny  were  pretty  bands, 
slim  hands,  white  hands,  rosy  tipped  with 
lii|uiil  polish — manicured  to  within  .m  inch  of 

their  live*. 

Her  lips  trembled,  hut  iliil  not  speak.  It  was 
the  soul  of  Gladys  Brown  thai  s|>oke. 

"Why,"  said  the  soul,  "it's  me  he's  Singing 
to — l>: 

TI 1 I '.  voice  carried  on.  Not  a  great  voice,  not 
even  .1  very  good  voice  Just  a  boy's  voice 
with  the  recdiness  of  youth  about  it.  with  the 
glamour  of  .1  certain  sincerity.  Ami  as  it  sane, 
Gladys  brown  thought  of  Kent  Carringtons 

sleek,  blond  hair,  and  of  his  eyes — blue,  and  set 
a  little  tOO  close  together  And  of  the  wife  who 
didn't  understand,  and  Of  the  sinister,  secret 
studio. 

she  thought  swiftly — as  they  say  a  drowning 

person,  going  down  for  the  last  time,  is  wont 
to  think.  She  thought  of  the  sign  posted  in  the 
trash    room — "In   this  era   of   unemployment. 

.  .  ."  She  thought  of  a  long,  weary  tine  in  front 

of  a  certain  office.  .  .  She  thought  of  warm 
stiver  sands,  and  ^i  a  white  billowing  tent  top, 

and   of   the   sound   of   a    horse's   boots   beating 
■-  the  desert. 

The  voice  from  the  record  reached  its  high- 
est, most  plaintive  note \nd  then,  with 

almost  a  shock  -  -a  shock  of  loss  and  of  despair 
—  it  fell  into  silence 

Automatically,  like  some  one  moving  in  a 
dream,  Gladys  Brown  turned  off  the  machine. 
YOU  thought  she'd  play  it  over  again?  Well, 
she  didn't.  Only  once  in  a  lifetime  should  a 
human  heart  receive  a  direct  message  from — 
Heyond. 

Gladys  Brown  switched  olT  the  machine,  and 
opened  the  door  of  the  booth,  and  addressed 
Miss  Miller,  who  was  making  a  list  of  the 
waltz  records — for  future  reference 

Never  mind,  bertha."  said  Gladys  brown. 
"never  mind  wrapping  up  those  records.  Mr 
Carrington  won't  be  needing  them — " 


Plane  Love 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  33  ] 

and  Haines,  his  assistant.  They  took  in  a 
little  group  of  extras  in  make-up  and  others 
who  weren't.  They  lit  upon  Chester  Lorenz. 
her  leading  man.  strutting  in  his  Foreign 
Legion  uniform,  and  tlitted  quickly  away  in  a 
cloud  of  distaste. 

Just  another  Foreign  Legion  picture,  she 
thought,  though  this  one  was  to  have  an  added 
thrill,  her  rescue  by  the  hero  in  an  airplane 
from  the  Riff  lines.  But  neither  she  nor 
Lorenz  would  really  work  in  that  sequence. 
Too  dangerous.  Their  places  would  be  taken 
by  doubles,  a  stunt  flyer  and  some  daring 
extra  girl  who  needed  the  money.  She  and 
Lorenz  would  be  cut  in  in  close-ups.  Theirs 
would  be  the  glory  with  none  of  the  danger. 
Vet  the  day  wasn't  so  far  past  when  she  would 
have  taken  the  extra  girl's  place  for  enough 
money  to  eat  on.  Now  she  was  too  valuable. 
A  star. 


^'jniarl  women  always  aire 
their  first  attention  tc  //if 
appearance  of  their  he 


Gives  Your  Hair  an 
Alluring  Loveliness 

unobtainable  by  ordinary  ivashing. 

Why  proper  shampooing  gives  your  hair  added  eharm  —  and 
leaves  it  soft  and  silky,  sparkling  with  life,  glo.-s  and  Iu~tr<\ 


THERE  is  nothing  so  captivating  as 
beautiful  hair.     Soft,    lovclv.    alluring 
hair  has  always  been  IRRESISTIBLE. 

Fortunately,  lieautil'ul  hair  depends,  al- 
most entirely,  upon  the  way  you  shampoo  it. 

A  thin,  oily  film,  or  coating,  is  const. mtly 
forming  on  the  hair.  If  allowed  to  remain, 
it  catches  the  dust  and  dirt  —  hides  the  lite 
and  I  ustre  — and  the  hair  then  becomes  dull 
and  unattractive. 

Only  thorough  shampooing  will  remove 
this  film  and  let  the  sparkle  and  the  rich, 
natural  color  tones  of  the 
hair  show. 

Why  On  Unary 
II 1 1  sin ng  Fails 

Washing  with  ordinary 
soap  fails  to  satisfactorily 
remove  this  film.  l>ecause 
— it  does  not  cleanse  the 
hair  properly. 

Besides — the  hair  can- 
not stan  d  the  harsh  effect 
of  ordinary  soaps.  The 
free  alkali  in  ordinary 
soaps,  soon  dries  the 
scalp,  makes  the  hair 
brittle  and  ruins  it. 

That  is  why  women, 
by  the  thousands,  who 
value  beautiful  hair,  use 


M  ulsified  Cocoanut  Oil  Shampoo.  It  cleans 
so  thoroughly ;  is  so  mild  and  so  pure,  that  it 
cannot  possibly  injure,  no  matter  how  often 
you  use  it. 

Two  or  three  teaspoonfuls  of  M  ulsified 
in  a  glass  or  pitcher  with  a  little  warm  water 
added,  makes  an  abundance  of . . .  soft, rich, 
creamy  lather  . .  .which  cleanses  thoroughly 
and  rinses  out  easily  .removing  with  it  every 
particle  of  dust,  dirt  and  dandruff. 

Just  Notice  the  Differ. 

You  will  notice  the 
difference  in  your  hair 
the  very  first  time  you 
use  M ulsified.  for  it  will 
feel  so  delightfully  clean, 
and  be  so  soft,  silky, 
and  fresh -looking. 

Trv  a  "  M  ulsified 
Shampoo"  and  see  how 
your  hair  will  sparkle— 
with  new  life,  gloss  and 
lustre.  Sec  how  easy  it 
will  be  to  manage  and  how 
lovely  and  alluring  your 
hair  will  look. 

You  can  get  Mulsified 
Cocoanut  Oil  Shampooat 
any  drug  store  or  toilet 
goods  counter—  anywhere 
in  the  world. 


MULSIFIED  COCOAXUT  OIL  SHAMPOO 


'34 


DANDRUFF 

A  Sure  Way  to  End  It 

There  is  one  sure  way  that  never  fails  to  re- 
move dandruff  completely,  and  that  is  to  dissolve 
it.  Then  you  destroy  it  entirely.  To  do  this, 
just  apply  a  little  Liquid  Arvon  at  night  before 
retiring;  use  enough  to  moisten  the  scalp  and 
rub  it  in  gently  with  the  finger  tips. 

By  morning,  most,  if  not  all,  of  your  dandruff 
will  be  gone,  and  two  or  three  more  applications 
will  completely  dissolve  and  entirely  destroy 
every  single  sign  and  trace  of  it,  no  matter  how 
much  dandruff  you  may  have. 

You  will  find,  too,  that  all  itching  of  the  scalp 
will  stop  instantly  and  your  hair  will  be  lustrous, 
glossy,  silky  and  soft,  and  look  and  feel  a  hun- 
dred times  better. 

You  can  get  Liquid  Arvon  at  any  drug  store, 
and  a  four  ounce  bottle  is  all  you  will  need. 

This  simple  remedy  has  never  been  known  to 
fail. 


BIG  OPPORTUNITIES 
in  PHOTOGRAPHY      - 


Earn    $1,500    to  ] 
$7,000  a  year  in  new  ^ 
photographic   field. 
Opportunities 

everywhere  for  trained 
motion  picture,  commer- 
cial or  portrait  photog- 
raphers in  large  hotels, 
residential  sections,  busi- 
ness centers.  schools, 
hospitals,   etc.      Previous 


"=^ 


Train  tl.rouch  our  Simplified   System.      We 
furnish  equipment.     Earn  while  you  learn. 
Life  Membership  FREE  of  citra  charge  in 
Personal    Service   Bureau    which   helps  you 
start  a  studio  or  puts  you  in  touch  with  opportuni- 
ties.   Hundreds  of  N.  Y.  Institute  Graduates    have 
won  quick  success  in  this  profitable  profession.     Send 
TODAY  for  FREE  Book  telling  how  to  qualify  for 
(  1  Motion  Picture   Photography  or  Projection 
(  )   Commercial    and    Portrait     Photography    or 
Photo- finishing. 
NEW     YORK     INSTITUTE    OF    PHOTOGRAPHY 
Depl.  AG-1255 10  West  33rd  Street 


NATIONWII 

FIELD 


CONVINCE 

YOURSELF 

Accept 

Special 

Offer 


FORM 
DEVELOPED 

FLAT  chested?  Fashion  demands  the 
*  full,  rounded  shapeliness  ol  the  wom- 
anly lonn.  The  stars  of  Hollywood  are 
developing  their  feminine  charm.  Vuii. 
too.  can  quickly  add  extra  fullness  where 
needed.     My   new  method  plumps  out 

the  hollows  and  builds  firm,  voulhful  tissue.  Just 
I  RY  fry  wonderful  MIRACLE  CREAM  and 
special  developing  instructional 

GIVEN  Write  Today 

Send  onlv  $1.00  for  Urge  ;ar 
of  NANCY  LEE  MIRACLE  (REAM  (in  plain 
wrmppcr)  and  I  will  include  my  special  Figure- 
Moulding  Course  and  complete  advice.  Take 
advantage  of  this  big  offei — write  AT  ONCE! 

NANCY  LEE     Oepi.  X-6 

816  Broadway,        New  York,  N.  Y. 


Corns 


for\.    kj 
Hard  Corns' 


End  Corn  Pains 

instantly  with  Wizard  Im- 
proved Corn  Pads.  Cush- 
ioned, but  not  bulky.  Oh, so 
comfortable.  Treated  wilh 
mercurochrome  (HW&D). 
S(^fe.  10c  and  35c  package. 
FREE  sample.  Write  for 
it. Send  your  dealer's  name 
and  address. 


Wizard  Co.  1636  Locust.  St  Louis  Mo. 


Wizard  Corn  Pads 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

Her  lips  curled.  A  star  vamp.  In  this 
picture,  as  in  all  her  others,  she  was  to  be  a 
beautiful,  unscrupulous  woman  who  would  be 
cleansed  in  the  tires  of  her  love  for  the  worth- 
less man  she  was  redeeming.  She'd  like  to 
play  in  one,  just  one  picture,  where  she 
wouldn't  be  mauled  by  some  actor. 

FUNNY  thing  about  that.  Here  she  was, 
seemingly  made  for  love  and  in  all  her  life 
she  had  never  felt  it.  Of  course,  looking  Like 
that,  and  being  able  to  talk  and  act  as  though 
love  was  the  most  wonderful  thing  in  the 
world,  were  what  had  brought  her  so  quickly 
to  stardom.  But  they  had  also  made  the  way 
harder  for  her.  As  long  as  she  could  remember, 
as  a  waitress,  a  stenographer,  an  extra  woman 
and  a  bit  actress,  she  had  been  forced  to  repel 
men's  advances  so  many  times  that  she  had 
come  to  disbelieve  in  love  and  to  hate  and  dis- 
trust every  man  who  showed  desire  in  his  eyes. 
And  most  men  she  looked  at  showed  it. 

Chester  Lorenz  was  showing  it  now,  not 
only  in  his  eyes  but  in  the  way  he  was  mauling 
her  in  their  scenes.  He  was  telling  her  he  was 
really  in  love  with  her  and  was  not  acting  as 
he  held  her  in  his  arms.  But  that  did  not 
stop  him  from  trying  to  steal  the  scenes,  cutting 
in  on  her  dialogue,  holding  her  head  in  his  lap 
so  that  her  face  was  almost  hidden  from  the 
camera. 

That  was  the  way  with  men.  They  told 
you  they'd  sacrifice  everything  f or  love  of  you 
and  then  they'd  try  to  steal  everything  from 
you,  even  your  bread  and  butter.  Love?  The 
bunk!  Chivalry?  More  bunk!  Men?  Nui- 
sances, every  one  of  them! 

She  supposed  Forrest  had  noticed  Lorenz 
stealing  the  scenes.  He  must  have,  because 
he  knew  pictures  so  well  and  because  he  had 
been  sitting  right  beside  the  camera.  But  he 
had  never  warned  her.  They  were  all  alike. 
Well,  things  would  go  differently  in  these  re- 
takes. Good  thing  a  catch  in  the  lens  of  the 
full-shot  camera  had  ruined  three  hours'  work. 
What  were  they  waiting  for?  What  was  hold- 
ing them  up? 

SHE  was  tired  of  working  in  the  pictures. 
Tired  of  the  hours  of  waiting.  Tired  of  the 
snooping  public  that  would  not  give  her  an 
instant's  privacy.  A  hot  lump  of  resentment 
that  had  been  lodging  against  her  heart  rose 
in  her  throat.  She  wanted  to  scream.  The 
cigarette,  unnoticed  in  her  hand,  burnt  to  its 
end  and  bit  into  her  finger.  And  a  dull,  red 
mist  swam  over  her. 

She  hurled  the  burning  stub  to  the  floor, 
swung  to  her  feet  and  throwing  the  negligee 
about  her  started  to  stalk  off  the  set. 

Forrest  rose  hurriedly  from  his  chair.  "Miss 
Clayburn,"  he  protested,  "please  don't  go  now. 
We  are  about  ready  to  start. " 

■"Go  ahead,"  she  told  him  in  her  slow,  deep, 
contralto  drawl,  "but  you  can  go  on  without 
me.  I'm  through  for  the  day.  I'm  tired  of 
waiting.  I've  wasted  a  whole  morning's  effort 
with  you  and  Mr.  Lorenz.  He's  so  anxious  to 
steal  those  scenes  that  he  can  play  them  by 
himself." 

"But  you  can't  do  that!"  Forrest  pleaded. 
"These  are  your  most  important  scenes. 
They're  the  pivot  of  the  story!" 

"Well.  I  present  them  to  you.  I  don't  want 
them.  I  think  they're  terrible.  I  think  the 
whole  story  is  awful."  Suddenly  she  was 
furious.  "And  don't  you  dare  to  tell  me  what 
I  can  or  cannot  do!  I  do  as  I  please.  I  please 
to  go.    I'm  going.    You're  stupid.    All  of  you!" 

A  chair  was  directly  in  her  path  and  she 
picked  it  up  and  slammed  it  down  violently. 
The  chair  fell  over  on  its  side.  Looking  up 
from  it,  her  eyes  swept  the  stage.  People 
wore  standing  as  though  paralyzed,  gawking 
at  her.  She  shrugged  her  shoulders  and  started 
to  go  on  when  her  glance  fell  into  a  man's  eyes. 

The  eyes  were  gray  and  cold  and  hooded 
under  heavy  brows,  but  now  they  were  alight 
with  amusement.  His  mouth  smiled  with 
them.  It  was  a  reckless  mouth,  slightly 
crooked.    The  rest  of  his  face  was  thin.    Even 


in  that  first  glance,  she  thought  of  a  hawk, 
the  slight  stoop  of  his  shoulders  which  came 
from  being  tall  and  slender  accentuating  the 
impression.  But  he  was  impertinent.  It  was 
obvious  he  didn't  realize  who  she  was  or  he 
wouldn't  dare  to  laugh  at  her.  She  stopped 
and  glared  at  him.  And  his  smile  grew  wider 
and  his  eyes  more  alive.  She  walked  straight 
at  him. 

"\\  7HAT   are   you   grinning  at?"   she   de- 

**  manded  furiously. 

"Why,  at  your  acting,  Miss  Clayburn,"  he 
drawled.  "You're  one  of  the  few  who  are  as 
good  'off'  as  you  are  'on'  I  bet  you." 

"I  was  not  acting,"  she  corrected  him.  "I'm 
mad." 

"Oh!"  he  said.  "Xofoolin'.  Why,  I  thought 
you  were  just  puttin'  on  a  show.  Say,  I  beg 
your  pardon,  Miss  Clayburn.  But  I  never 
thought  a  girl  as  pretty  and  sweet  as  you  are 
would  go  up  in  the  air  for  nothing. " 

"Look  here!"  she  snapped.  "People  don't 
talk  that  way  to  me.    Who  are  you?" 

"Why,  the  name's  Halloran,  Miss  Clayburn. 
Dave  Halloran.  Pilot.  I'm  flyin'  a  bus  in  this 
picture.  Or  I  was.  I  suppose  I'm  fired  now. 
I  suppose  a  fellow  that  made  such  a  big  mis- 
take as  to  laugh  when  the  great  Charmion 
Clayburn  had  a  brainstorm  has  just  got  to  go 
away  from  here. " 

The  man  was  grinning  at  her!  Why,  the — 
but  the  grin  was  friendly  and  it  reached  down 
into  something  in  her  that  made  her  want  to 
grin,  too. 

"No,"  she  said,  studying  him  thoughtfully. 
"Why  should  you  be?"  She  turned  and  walked 
back  and  took  her  place  on  the  couch.  "I'm 
sorry,  Mr.  Forrest,"  she  told  the  director.  "If 
you'll  wait  just  a  minute,  I'll  be  ready.  Clara, 
bring  the  mirror  and  my  make-up,  won't  you, 
please?" 

"Gee!"  said  Eddie  Caine,  pop-eyed,  "that's 
tamin'  a  wild  woman  with  a  coupla  well- 
chosen  words,  I'll  say.    Who  is  that  guv?" 

"I  don't  know,  Eddie,"  Rocky  Boles  told 
him.  "Never  saw  him  before  but  from  here 
it  looks  like  he  might  be  that  there  opposition 
you  and  me  was  talkin'  about." 

But  he  wasn't  "that  there  opposition." 
Rather,  he  was  a  phantom,  or  a  memory. 
Charmion  Clayburn,  passionless  star  of  passion 
dramas  wasn't  sure  at  times  that  she  had  really 
met  a  tall,  slim  flyer  named,  "Halloran,  Miss 
Clayburn,  Dave  Halloran.  Pilot.  Flyin'  a 
bus  in  this  picture."  Until  sne  remembered 
his  eyes.  They  were  flyer's  eyes  because, 
gazing  calmly  out  at  her  from  under  the 
hood  of  their  heavy  brows,  they  had  made 
her  think  of  a  hawk.  And  they  were  the  only 
man's  eyes  that  she  remembered  looking  at 
her  without  desire.     Only  amusement. 

SHE  thought  a  great  deal  about  him  in  the 
two  weeks  that  followed,  chiefly  because  she 
didn't  see  him  again.  She  and  the  company 
were  busy  with  interior  scenes.  He  would  not 
have  anything  to  do  until  they  had  arrived  at 
the  flying  sequence.  She  wondered  about  him, 
why  he  wasn't  impressed  with  her  rage  that 
day,  and  why  he  hadn't  appreciated  her  beauty 
more.  He  had  certainly  recognized  it.  What 
was  it  he  had  said  to  her? 

" — I  never  thought  a  girl  as  pretty  and  as 
sweet  as  you  are  would  go  up  in  the  air  over 
nothing. " 

She'd  like  to  explain  to  him  about  that. 
She'd  like  to  tell  him  that  it  wasn't  the  so- 
called  artistic  temperament  that  caused  those 
flare-ups  but  rather  a  protest  at  the  price  she 
had  to  pay  for  being  a  star. 

Something  was  influencing  Charmion  Clay- 
burn to  do  in  this  picture  the  best  work  of  her 
career.  Forrest,  who  had  directed  her  in  two 
of  her  previous  pictures,  was  the  first  to  notice 
the  change.  Subtly  he  sensed  that  she  was 
taking  the  direction  of  her  acting  out  of  his 
hands. 

"Something,"  he  told  Haines  and  Lorenz, 
just  after  they  had  shot  a  scene,  "has  hap- 
pened to  Miss  Clayburn.  She  has  grown  up 
emotionally." 


PhOTOPI  w   M  \>.\/!ni    roi  Ji  m  ,   1931 


mili-il  to  himself     Re  bad  Us  own 
Interpretation     She  m  In  love,  oi  ooune. 
I  hose  little  things  he  whispered  wi  •■ 
tier  to  life     Well,  that  was  one  ol  th< 
things   about    being   ■   leading    man.     Von 
i  about  women. 

Till  news  "i  the  new  Clayburn  picture  went 
■  ,.i  ili.'  studio  l>y  Hollywood  grapevine 
pread  along  the  boulevards  and  amor 
other  ^t  in  1 1>  •-      I  lu-  picture  was  a  wow  and 
(  harmion  Clayburn  was  burning  up  the  love 
scenes.     It   even  seeped  out    t"   ft**-  \\  iK. m 

•  field  in  Glcndale,  where  Dave  Ha 
bad  parked  his  plane  after  flying  it  from  his 
father's  Cin<  inn. in  I 
"Hear  your  leading  woman's  knockin' 
in  the  picture  you're  doin'  I  in," 

Spud   Degnan,  his  mechanic,  told  Dave  one 
morning.     "They    say    that    right    now    the 
picture's  a  knock  out.    So  maybe  they  won't 
need  tin-  trii  k  airplane  stuff." 
"Glad  to  hear  it."  Dave  acknowledged  the 

news  "It  wouldn't  hreuk  my  In  art  it  they  cut 
my  part.  I'm  not  crazy  about  the  idea  of 
swingin'  any  girl  off  the  top  of  the  wall  to  a 
rope  under  the  plane  I  got  the  >cene  worked 
out  so  that  most  of  the  danger's  eliminated 
but  there's  >till  too  much  of  it.  I  don't  see 
why  they  don't  dreSG  up  a  man  in  woman's 
clothes  and  let  him  do  it." 
•Mean  to  say  the  Clayburn  woman's  gonna 

do  it!"  Spud  exclaimed. 

"Be  yourself."  Dave  grinned.     "When  did 

you  ever  hear  of  a  picture  company  ri>kin'  the 
"life  of  a  star  for  a   thrill?     When  they  throw 

somebody  to  the  lions,  thej  pick  on  someone 

unknown.  Not  that  I  don't  think  that  the 
Clayburn  woman  wouldn't  do  it,  if  she  had  to. 
The  day  I  saw  her,  she  showed  enough  temper 
bdue  a  cage  of  tigers.  All  they'd  have  to 
do  to  get  her  to  go  up  would  he  to  make  her 
mad.     Then  She'd  l>c  liable  to  do  anything." 


rr 


1  think  this 
modern  yeast  is 

DELICIOUS!'' 

Yeast  Foam  Tablets  set  new 

standards   for  purity,  pleasant 

taste,  and  beneficial  effects 


Gone  for  good— all  the  old  objections  to 
yeast!  For  NOW  you  can  get  it  in  a  form 
you'll  find  not  only  agreeable  and  convenient, 
but  actually  delicious — Yeast  Foam  Tablet*. 

This  yeast  is  pure  yeast — and  nothing  but 
yeast.  And  pure  yeast,  such  as  this,  is  the 
richest  known  natural  food  source  of  the 
essential  Vitamins — "B"  and  "G." 

Yeast  Foam  Tablets  are  easy  and  pleasant 
to  swallow — or  as  most  people  prefer,  to 
chew  like  candy.  Yeast  Foam  Tablets  are 
dehydrated  and  sterilized,  which  means 
(1)  they  keep  indefinitely  without  loss  of 
potency  and  (2)  they  can  not  cause  gas  or 
fermentation.  They  are  the  ONLY  yeast 
SAFE  for  all  ages:  from  tiny  infants  to  the 
elderly. 

By  reason  of  purity,  uniformity  and 
potency,  this  yeast  has  become  the  standard 
for  Vitamin  studies  as  conducted  by  the 
U.  S.  Government  and  leading  American 
universities. 

Eat  Yeast  Foam  Tablets,  the  modern  yeast, 
for  skin  and  complexion  disorders,  digestive 
and  intestinal  disturbances,  underweight, 
run  down  and  nervous  conditions.  Ten  day 
bottle  costs  but  50  cts.  at  your  drug  store. 
This  yeast  made  and  guaranteed  by  The 
World's  Largest  Makers  of  Dry  Yeast,  the 
Northwestern  Yeast  Company,  Chicago. 


Here  you  see  Lita  Chevret  smartly 
backing  the  pyjama  vogue!  She 
wears  this  giddily  striped  creation  in 
"Traveling  Husbands."  Tricky 
sleeves,  what? 


YEAST  FOAM 
TABLETS 


ON   THE    AIR 

Every  Sunday  Afternoon  from  2 :30 
to3:00,  Eastern  Daylight  Saving  Time, 
the  melodious  "Yeast  Foamers" 
over  NBC-W.IZ  Bine  Network  Sta- 
tions and  all  supplementary  stations 
from  coast  to  coast. 


SEND   FOR    FREE   SAMPLE 

Northwestern  Yeast  Co. 
1750  North  Ashland  Avenue 
Chicago,  Illinois 

Please  send  free  sample  and  de- 
scriptive circular, 
p.  p. 
Ka  me 


Address 


OA*»ON  —  FO»UI.AM    «TA* 


What  Has 
She  Done? 

What  has  this  clever  girl  done  to 
make  her  hair  so  lovely?  How  does 
she  keep  those  exquisite  soft  tones — ■ 
those  tiny  dancing  lights  in  her  hair? 

Her  secret  is  Golden  Glint  Shampoo. 
You'd  never  think  a  single  shampooing  could 
make  one's  hair  so  beautiful,  so  radiant — and 
do  it  so  easily!  You'll  be  delighted  with  the 
soft  loveliness  —  the  "tiny-tint"  — it  imparts. 
At  your  dealers',  25c,  or  send  for  free  sample. 
FREE        


J.  W.   KOBI  CO..    «30  Rainier  Ave..  Dept.  F 
Seattle,  Wash.    »   «  »   .    P 'least  send  a  fret  sample. 

Name 


AHdrp« 

City 

Stare 

Color  of  my  hair 

No  young  husband  ever  realizes  how  that 

horrible  lassitude,  those  splitting  headaches 

and  periodic  suffering  that  come  for  a  few 

days  each  month,  drain  your  strength  and 

leave  you  so  terribly  tired. 

Every  druggist  sells  this  old,  reliable  remedy 

in  powders  or  tablets. 

KOHLER  MFG.  CO.  •   Baltimore,  Md. 


Manufacturers  also  of  Kohlcr 
One  Night  Corn  Cure 


KO  H  L 


ANTI  DOT 


A  D  AC  H 


'Removes- not  only  relieves  pain" 


Does  Your  Mirror  Reflect  Rough 
Pimply  Skin? 

Then 
Use 


CUTICCRA 

And  Have  a  Clear  Skin! 

Price  25c.  each.     Sample  free. 
Address  :  "Cnticora,"  Dept.  8B,  Mxlden,  Hut. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

"Boy!"  said  Spud.  "I  saw  her  in  a  couple 
of  pictures  and  temper  or  no  temper,  she  could 
have  my  extra  cup  of  coffee  for  life  any  time." 

"Well,"  grinned  Dave.  "Every  man  to  his 
taste.  Maybe  you  were  cut  out  to  be  an 
animal  trainer.  But  not  me.  When  I  marry, 
I'm  goin'  to  try  and  pick  a  wife  that's  soft 
and  sweet.  Maybe  she'll  be  beautiful,  too. 
But  I'd  hate  to  think  my  mother  raised  me 
to  be  a  life  companion  to  a  buzz  saw." 

""yOU  flyin'  the  bus  this  afternoon?"  Spud 

*■  asked  him. 

"No,"  Dave  said.  "I'm  goin'  over  to  see 
Forrest.  "They're  shootin'  the  airplane  stuff 
the  day  after  tomorrow.  Down  in  Tucson, 
Arizona.  The  company's  leavin'  tonight  by 
train.  I'm  flyin'  down  tomorrow.  We'll  finish 
tunin'  her  up  now  so  she'll  be  all  ready. " 

It  was  unfortunate  that  the  afternoon  Dave 
Halloran  had  been  called  in  for  conference 
with  Forrest,  the  director,  should  have  been 
the  one  on  which  circumstances  should  con- 
spire to  send  Charmion  Clayburn  into  another 
of  her  almost  historic  rages.  Up  till  that  time 
her  disposition  had  been  angelic,  if  a  little 
puzzling  to  the  people  who  worked  with  her. 

A  strange  thing  had  happened  to  her.  She 
was  doing  everything  with  the  thought  in  her 
mind  that  it  must  meet  the  approval  of  the 
young  flyer  with  the  clear,  amused  eyes,  whom 
she  had  met  so  suddenly  two  weeks  ago.  That 
was  the  reason  she  threw  herself  into  her  work. 
She  wanted  it  to  be  good.  Then  she  learned 
that  if  she  imagined  Lorenz,  her  leading  man, 
was  the  tall,  slim  youngster  who  laughed  at 
her  when  she  was  angry,  she  could  get  a  great 
deal  more  emotion  into  her  love  scenes. 

She  fondly  imagined  that  she,  alone,  had 
the  key  to  the  change  in  her  but  she  was 
wrong.  Rocky  Boles,  the  huge  electrician,  and 
his  pal,  Eddie  Caine,  the  diminutive  stage 
carpenter,  shared  her  secret  with  her  though 
they  did  not  disclose  it  to  the  rest  of  the  world. 
Instead  they  went  about  the  studio  emitting 
strange  and  sundry  wisecracks  to  each  other 
that  no  one  could  guess  the  meaning  of. 

"Boy!"  Rocky  would  chortle.  "What'd  I 
tell  you  about  that  there  opposition?  He 
comes  along  and  transforms  a  ragin'  demon  of 
a  dame  into  a  sweet  angel  just  by  whisperin' 
in  her  ear. " 

"I'll  say!"  Eddie  would  agree.  "Opposition's 
the  life  of  trade.  Wonder  what  he'll  do  now 
he's  got  her  all  gentled  up?" 

"Why,"  Rocky  would  explain.  "He'll  bring 
his  little  ol'  airyplane  and  fly  her  away  right 
up  to  heaven." 

AND  even  in  this  far-fetched,  humorous  idea 
they  were  right,  up  to  a  certain  point.  For 
Charmion  was  already  looking  forward  to  the 
carrying  out  of  her  plan  for  getting  to  know 
the  young  flyer  better.  She  had  told  Forrest 
that  business  would  prevent  her  leaving  for 
location  with  the  rest  of  the  unit  that  night 
and  had  suggested  that  she  fly  down  "with 
Mr.  Halloran. "  Forrest  thought  it  was  a  good 
idea. 

When  Dave,  late  in  the  afternoon,  sent  in 
his  name  to  Forrest,  the  director  was  already 
on  the  set,  getting  ready  to  shoot  the  final 
scene  of  the  sequence,  the  meeting  of  Charmion 
and  Lorenz.  The  set  represented  a  crude 
Algerian  vaudeville  theater,  consisting  of  a 
small  stage,  an  orchestra  pit,  a  pit  and  a 
balcony.  The  balcony  was  gained  byr  climbing 
three  short  steps  out  of  the  pit.  Both  the  pit 
and  balcony  were  thickly  furnished  with  tables 
and  chairs  where  the  patrons  drank  while  they 
enjoyed  the  show. 

The  pit  was  occupied  by  private  soldiers  of 
the  Foreign  Legion,  together  with  civilians  of 
the  humbler  sort  and  more  or  less  bedraggled 
lights  o'  love  of  all  nations.  In  the  balcony 
there  sat  what  constituted  the  local  aristocracy. 
military  officers  and  successful  merchants, 
t  heir  wives  and  mistresses.  These  latter  were 
in  evening  dress. 

Lorenz  sat  among  the  other  private  soldiers 
in  the  pit. 


"All  right,"  Forrest  shouted  as  Dave  came 
in.    "Let's  try  it." 

rT""IIE  crowded  set  broke  into  action.  Waiters 
•*■  appeared  with  bottles  and  glasses  on  trays. 
The  crowd  drank,  talked,  laughed.  The 
orchestra  broke  into  a  lively  tune  and  Charmion 
sauntered  out  on  the  stage. 

Dave,  standing  in  the  shadows  at  the  side 
just  out  of  the  range  of  the  camera,  caught  his 
breath  at  sight  of  her  sheer  beauty.  She  was 
dressed  in  a  thin  white  silk  shirt  which  revealed 
the  lines  of  her  firm  breasts,  a  pair  of  very 
tight  black  velvet  shorts  which  ended  at  her 
thighs.  Her  shapely  legs  were  bare,  her  feet 
incased  in  high-heeled  black  slippers.  A  high 
silk  hat  perched  rakishly  on  her  blonde  head 
and  under  her  arm  she  carried  a  short  ebony 
stick  with  a  silver  knob. 

She  strolled  down  to  the  center  of  the  stage 
and  stood  surveying  the  audience  calmly  while 
it  shouted,  laughed,  clapped  its  hands  and 
banged  bottles  and  glasses  upon  the  tables. 
She  stood  there  till  the  din  died  down  and 
then  she  slipped  into  a  plaintive  song.  Calmly. 
Slowly.    Beautifully. 

Dave  was  one  of  the  few  who  saw  that  scene 
in  the  making  who  was  not  acting.  Yet  his 
reactions  were  the  same  as  were  those  of  the 
actors.  First  he  listened  breathlessly  as  the 
clear  contralto  voice  came  to  him.  Then  he 
began  to  chuckle  because  the  song  itself  was 
undeniably  naughty  and  full  of  a  witty  double- 
enit  ndre.  At  the  end  of  the  chorus  he  was 
laughing  heartily. 

Charmion,  still  singing,  stepped  down  the 
steps  from  the  stage  and  passed  slowly  among 
the  tables,  and  came  at  length  to  a  pause  in 
front  of  Lorenz.  And  here  trouble  broke. 
For  Lorenz,  mistaking  the  reason  for  the  in- 
creasing fervor  of  her  emotional  acting  in  the 
past  two  weeks,  slipped  his  hand  onto  her 
knee  and  whispered  a  suggestion.  Charmion 
stopped  singing,  and  stared  at  him  while  a 
slow  blush  dyed  her  face  and  neck.  Then 
suddenly  she  swung  her  open  hand  to  his  face 
in  a  slap  that  sounded  like  a  shot  in  the  sudden 
stillness.  And  Dave  knew  that  scene  had  not 
been  rehearsed  even  before  he  heard  Lorenz's 
frantic  whimper. 

"All  right.  All  right,  Miss  Clayburn!  I'm 
sorry!  Please  don't  report  me.  I'll  be  black- 
listed." 

SHE  kept  her  eyes  on  him  while  she  turned 
disdainfully  away.  As  her  eyes  tore  them- 
selves from  the  abject  actor,  they  fell  again  on 
Dave.  She  stared  incredulously  at  him  an  in- 
stant and  came  straight  for  him. 

"Mr.  Halloran,"  she  said.  "Come  with  me." 
And  as  he  hesitated,  she  stamped  her  foot. 
"Come!    Do  you  hear?    Oh,  please!" 

His  eyes,  which  had  gone  cold  with  slow 
anger,  softened  and  a  grin  dawned  on  his 
crooked  mouth.  He  walked  behind  her  to  the 
side  of  the  set  where  she  turned  and  faced  him. 

"Mr.  Halloran."  she  asked.  "Has  Mr. 
Forrest  spoken  to  you  about  my  flying  down 
with  you  tomorrow?" 

"Why,  no,"  Dave  drawled.  "I  hadn't 
talked  to  him  when  you,"  he  grinned,  "got 
all  hot  and  bothered — again." 

"Well,  may  I?"'  she  pleaded,  coloring.  "You 
see,  I  have  some  business  to  finish  tonight, 
which  makes  it  impossible — I  wondered  if 
you'd  be  so  kind — "  She  stood  looking 
anxiously  up  at  him. 

"Why  not?"  he  grinned.  "If  you  get  mad 
eight  thousand  feet  up,  you'll  cool  off  quick. 
My  bus  is  a  two-seater,  open  cockpit  job. 
Better  dress  warm." 

"Oh,  thank  you!"  she  breathed.  "Mr. 
Halloran,  I  know  you  think  I'm  a  murderess 
at  heart.  But  I'm  not.  Really.  That  first 
time  was  inexcusable,  but  today — " 

"Today,"  he  told  her  gravely,  a  little  dizzy 
from  her  beauty,  "you  could  have  borrowed 
my  left.  I  heard  some  of  it.  We  start  at  six 
in  the  momin'.  Wilson  Fhin'  field,  Glendale. 
So  long.  Miss  Clayburn.'' 

She  stood  gazing  after  him  as  he  strode  over 
to  Forrest. 


PH0T0P1  w    M  ac.a/im     i  01    J 


ShiKM  signals  Dying  tad  itonn 
flashing  in  The  fog  <>f  an  early  California 
morning  wit ti  the  promise  of  a  uniting  tun 
and  .1  doudleae  sky  later  ill  the  day  Hut 
storm  warnings  hissing,  squawking,  clattering 
.hkI  grumbling  from  the  Soutl  I  and 

Soutl  ting  l>>  radio,  l>>  telepboi 

telegraph  Cloudy.  Low  ceiling  Electricity. 
K.i  >n 

Pilots  rolled  out  of  their  hangars  and  beaded 
for  home  again  to  i  -it<  h  a  couple  of  hours  sleep. 
Mo  planes  flying  toda)  At  Wilson's  .liriMiri. 
Dave  HaUoran  picked  up  the  phone  and  into 
it  fut  Charmion  Clayburn's  number.  A  maid 
.  red  Miss  Claybum  was  on  hei  waj  to 
the  airport     She  would  be  there  any  moment 

I  ),is  i   I  l.i  and  hung  up  the  n  ■ 

to  find  her  at  his  elbow.  Sin-  was  dressed  in  a 
flyer's  suit.  Hei  beautiful  calm  Face  smiled 
out  at  him  from  beneath  a  helmet 

"Sorry,  Miss  Clayburn,"  he  said  "Can't 
fly  you  down     Storms." 

"Are  you  flj  it 

"Yes.      But 

•Look.  Mr  HaUoran  "  She  pulled  a  card 
case  from  her  coat  pocket.  "Here's  my  pilot's 
license.    Doesn't  mean  much  l>ut  I've  really 

had  118  mjIo  hours.  I'm  after  a  transport 
license  but  it  takes  time.  I'm  a  flyer  myself, 
so  why  hesitate"" 

"I  couldn't  take  any  chances  Clacking  up 
with  you — " 

"I-  that  your  bus?"  she  asked  and  walked 
out    to  it.      Dave  followed  her.  perforce  with 

the  pop-eyed  spud  Donovan  treading  to  his 
heels.    "Oh,  isnt  she  a  beauty!   ASvendalis?" 

"No."  Dave  told  her.  "Special  job.  My 
own.  Look  here.  Miss  t'layburn.  I  wouldn't 
dare  take  a  chance  llyin'  you.  My  own  judg- 
ment is  that  the  storms  aren't  bad  but — " 

"Come  on."  she  coaxed.  "You  fly  her. 
I'll  handle  the  stick  if  you  pet  tired." 

He  grinned  at  her  audacity  and  climbed  in 
behind  her.  Spud,  grinning,  stepped  to  the 
propeller.  Dsve  gave  her  the  gun.  "Cont 
he  yelled.  Spud  kicked  the  blocks  away.  They 
taxied  down  the  field  and  rose  in  the  air,  their 
faces  toward  the  morning.  Her  voice  drifted 
back  to  him. 

"Hold  your  hat  on!"  she  warned. 
•     »     » 

AFTER  three  hours  flying. 
The  ceiling  pressed  down  upon  them  like 
a  murderer's  conscience.  Thick,  swirling  gray 
bearing  down  inexorably  from  Divisible  heaven 
as  they  staggered  Southeastward  throttled 
down  to  seventy  miles  an  hour.  Light  thou- 
sand feet — seventy-live  hundred — seven  thou- 
sand— and  death  below  them.  The  jagged 
teeth  of  naked  mountains  snarled  up  at  them. 
Not  a  landing  in  a  hundred  miles. 

The  storm  hit  them  suddenly — from  behind. 
It  roared  upon  them,  cursing,  and  a  thousand 
demons  threw  pails  of  water  all  over  them.  A 
giant  was  hurling  thunderbolts  and  lightning 
sizzled  above  their  heads.  Dave  turned  the 
plane's  nose  skyward  in  a  valiant  attempt  for 
altitude.  And  the  howling  wind  laughed 
against  her  tail  and  turned  her  upside  down. 
As  they  went  over  in  a  maelstrom  of  darkness, 
his  eyes  sought  her.  She  turned  her  head  and 
waved.     She  was  smiling! 

"God  forgive  me!"  Dave  cried  from  his 
heart  to  God.    "And  take  my  life  for  her- 

\  gjant  cracked  down  on  the  plane.  And 
then  slid  his  hand  under  her  so  that  she  would 
light  easily.  It  was  a  perfect  three-point  land- 
in;:  on  a  held  of  yielding  sand.  They  rolled 
about  nineteen  feet  and  stopped  with  a  soft 
thud.  The  howl  of  the  storm  had  fallen  to  a 
wild  whisper. 

Dave  HaUoran,  unnerved,  crouched  silent 
in  his  seat,  afraid  to  move  and  find  her  dead. 

"Dave!  he  heard  her  clear  voice,  whisper- 
ing above  the  storm's  whisper  and  he  crouched 
lower  because  he  knew  that  she  was  dead  and 
that  was  her  soul  reproaching  him.  "i 
Oh.  my  Dave!  Oh.  my  lover!  I  killed  him! 
Hut  I  love  him  so!"  The  voice  fell  to  a 
whimper.  She  was  sobbing,  great  stabbing 
sobs  that  hurt  him. 


No  matter  how  smartly  dressed  the  modern  fashionable,  

she  must  suggest,  be  it  ever  so  subtly,-  that  underneath 
it  all  is  a  well-cared-for,  immaculate,  exquisite  body.  £ 
Nothing  suggests  a  beautiful  body  so  insistently  as 
Vivaudou  Mavis  Talcum.  Its  impalpably  fine  texture 
achieves  a  skin  of  silken  smoothness.  It  accents  the  delicate 
color  nuances  of  flesh  tones.  Its  dainty  fragrance  intrigues. 
In  short  it  not  only  soothes  and  caresses  but  it  expresses 
you  as  a  personality  of  chic  and  fastidious  elegance. 


los    Angeles 


V.    VIVAUDOU,    Inc. 
Poris    .    .    .    New  York    .    .    .    Chicago 


Toronto 


The  Fi n£er  Ti  p  Te  st  Ca  n  / 


If  dandruff  has  caked  on  your  scalp,  clogging 
up  the  pores  and  stifling  the  growth  of  hair, 
neither  your  mirror  nor  your  friends  can  tell 
you  about  it.  But  you  can  find  out  in  a  second 
by  gently  scratching  your  scalp  and  then  look- 
ing  at  your  finger-nails. 

Fitch's  Dandruff  Remover  Shampoo  cleanses 
your  scalp  as  well  as  your  hair.  It  dissolves  and 
removes  every  particle  of  loose  and  heavily  in- 
crusted  dandruff  under  a  money-back  guarantee. 

Try  Fitch's  today.  At  all  barber  and  beauty 
shops,  drug  and  department  stores. 

Send  for  free  trial  size  and  booklet 


Dan  d  r  uff 
Remover 


55c&£ 


Shampoo 


F.  W.  FITCH  CO.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa.        PH-6 

Please  send  me  eenerous  free  trial  package  and 
32  page  educational  booklet  "Your  Hair  and  Scalp." 


Name . 


Address. 


Uxixhould 
know 

(hi/-  vital  tad  cvbcul 

Feminine  Hygiene 

T\KE  no  chances  with  your 
health  and  happiness!  Be 
sure  you  KNOW  how  to 
practice  personal  hygiene  safely, 
effectively.  Your  physician 
would  warn  you  against  dan- 
gerous antiseptics,  against 
harsh  caustics,  and  burning 
acids  that  injure  delicate  tissues. 
Now  there  is  an  antiseptic  cre- 
ated expressly  for  feminine  hy- 
giene .  .  .  safe  to  use,  absolutely 
harmless  .  .  .  and  so  easyl 
This  antiseptic  comes  in  the 
form  of  little  slips  called  Sani- 
forms  .  .  .  ready  for  use. 

Try  This  New  Way 

S  A  \  I  1  "OII.M 

Antiseptic  Slips      FREE 


Thousands  of  women  find  Panifonn 
AntNeptic  Slips  lum-inlurtous.  To 
Introduce  to  you  this  modern,  easy 
method  I  make  tliis  special  offer; 
send  only  95  cents  for  large  box  of 

SliPa    l>v    mail,    in    plain 

Wrapper,      with      full      lti.tr,,,-!..., i.       ,„i 

n^w  H.>,,k  on  Feminine  Hycwtt  FREE.  Mail 
ooapoa  ••<  arila  TODAY 

VIOLET  PAGE,  dept.  p-sos 
55  E.  1 1  th  St.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
ar^^^ay^ayaj  MAIL  THIS  COUPON  wwwww* 
Violet  Page.  Dept.  P-306. 
55  East  11th  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
Dear  Violet  Page:  Please  send  me  large  ho\  of  Saniform 
Antiseptic  Slips  for  which  I  enclose  special  price  of  only 
95c.       Also    include   directions   and    FREE    BOOK. 


Book  on  Femi- 
nine Hygiene 
Included.  Prac- 
tical, helpful 
.  .  tells  you 
exactly  what 
you  want  to 
know. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

llr  uncoiled  his  long  length  slowly  and  stood 
up  to  see  her  looking  up  at  him  from  the 
ground. 

"Oh,  David!"  she  whimpered,  like  a  child 
waking  from  a  nightmare.  "You  went  and 
lost  your  hat!" 


PLANES  swept  the  cleared  sky  for  the  hun- 
*-  dreds  of  miles  that  spread  between  Glcndale 
and  the  tiny  spot  on  the  desert  that  is  Tucson. 
Keen-eyed  pilots  stared  down  into  the  chaos 
of  the  desert  mountains,  hoping  that  they 
would  not  see  the  charred  body  and  twisted 
metal  of  what  had  once  been  a  gallant  plane. 
The  radio  and  the  telegraph  flashed  the  news 
across  the  world  that  Charmion  Clayburn, 
famous  actress,  and  Dave  Halloran,  millionaire 
inventor  and  tlyer,  were  down  somewhere  in 
Arizona  in  a  storm. 

And  on  the  floor  of  the  desert  beside  the  plane, 
the  two  lost  ones  were  staring  at  each  other 
as  if  they  had  never  seen  such  wonderful  sights 


Name 

Address 

Town state 


before.     As  indeed   they  hadn't.     Not    with 
this  feeling  behind  them. 

1  ■'  I    in,"    Dave    was    ordering.      "You're 
late." 

"Dave,  arc  you  sure  you  love  me?" 

"Sure  I'm  sure.  I'm — I'm  goofy  about  you. 
Gel  in.    You're  late.  " 

"Dave.  Give  me  another  kiss.  I  never 
knew  kisses  could  be  like  this." 

"There.    Charmion,  two  more  of  those  and 
I  can't  fly  the  plane.  *' 
I  [<  re's  both  of  them." 

"Oh,  My  Maternal  Godmother!  Oh, 
Baby!  Oh,  Charmion!  Le'  go  o'  me.  Come 
on.     Get  in.     You're  late!" 

"Do  we  get  married  as  soon  as  we  come 
down?" 

"I'll  say!    Come  on.    Get — Atta  girl!" 

"Dave,  throw  me  a  kiss.    I  can't  reach  you." 

"There  y'are. " 

"Ooh!  We're  going  up!  Hold  your  hat  on. 
Oh,  you  haven't  got  a  hat  to  hold.  You  went 
and  lost  it!" 


The  Troubles  of  Gloria 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  45  ] 


assigned  her.  But  that  was  just  the  trouble. 
Gloria  wasn't  sure  she  always  would  like  the 
stories  Paramount  chose,  that  she  always  would 
be  artistically  en  rapport  with  the  director  they 
gave  her.  Gloria  feared  that  at  the  end  of  this 
magnificent  contract,  her  career  would  be  over, 
snuffed  out  by  pictures  turned  out  rapidly 
enough  to  bring  Paramount  adequate  profits 
in  spite  of  the  salary  they  paid  her.  And  it 
is  not  in  Gloria  to  brook  such  an  ignominious 
end,  for  any  price. 

AT  the  same  time,  the  emissaries  of  United 
Artists  were  eloquent.  Perhaps  they  realized 
even  then  that  their  company  would  have 
need  of  new  blood.  At  any  rate,  they  told 
Gloria  if  she  was  worth  twenty  thousand 
dollars  a  week  to  Paramount,  she  was  worth 
more  to  herself.  And  that  seemed  logical. 
They  assured  Gloria  she  had  too  fine  a  mind, 
was  too  brilliant  a  person  and  too  great  an 
executive  to  walk  docilely  through  the  golden 
years  of  her  fame  and  not  prospect  a  little  on 
her  own. 

There  were  a  few  friends  who  pointed  out 
that  if  Gloria  accepted  the  Paramount  offer 
and  lived  parsimoniously  on  S5,000  a  week 
she  might  have  two  million  dollars  in  a  trust 
fund  at  the  end  of  two  years.  But,  alas,  their 
voices  were  lost  in  the  din  and  clamor. 

The  more  Gloria  thought  about  joining 
United  Artists,  the  more  the  idea  intrigued 
her  and  the  more  eager  she  became  to  join 
that  Olympian  group  comprised  of  D.  W. 
Griffith,  Charles  Spencer  Chaplin.  Mary  Pick- 
ford  and  Douglas  Fairbanks,  all  topnotchers 
at  the  time. 

Once  before,  Gloria  had  staked  everything  on 
a  chance.  She  had  quit  being  a  mannequin 
in  the  old  Cecil  B.  De  Mille  productions  to 
strike  out  as  an  actress,  although  she  had  no 
guarantee  that  the  public  would  accept  her 
without  her  bizarre  coiffures  and  exaggerated 
gowns.  Time  had  proved  the  wisdom  of  this 
move.  She  would  strike  out  again.  There  is 
a  streak  of  the  plucky  gambler  running  through 
Gloria's  complex  make-up.  All  successful 
people  have  it  more  or  less,  I  suppose. 

Another  thing.  I  think  at  this  time  Gloria 
was  particularly  eager  for  artistic  acclaim.  I 
think  she  wanted  to  prove  that  she  wasn't 
merely  a  little  bathing  girl  who,  by  a  fluke  of 
popular  fancy,  had  become  a  star.  She  was 
newly  married  to  that  young  man.  the  Marquis 
Henri  de  Falaise  de  la  Coudray.  It  was  with 
frank  pride  that  she  bore  his  high  name.  Is 
it  strange  then  that  she  should  want  an 
affiliation   that   promised   her  a   dignity   and 


honor  befitting  the  wife  of  such  a  charming 
Marquis? 

Whatever  it  was  that  decided  Gloria,  it 
certainly  must  have  taken  confidence  and 
courage  for  her  to  turn  down  twenty  thousand 
dollars  every  week  for  two  years.  Gloria, 
however,  never  has  lacked  courage.  It  is  her 
indomitable  spirit  that  kept  her  from  becoming 
a  "yes-man"  in  spite  of  many  years  with 
De  Mille.  And  it  is,  today,  that  same  spirit 
that  keeps  her  producing  her  own  pictures  in 
spite  of  the  strain  she  has  undergone  for  the 
past  five  years. 

Had  her  first  production  been  successful 
Gloria  would  have  had  an  easier  time  of  it. 
"The  Love  of  Sunya,"  however,  made  under 
tremendous  handicaps  while  Gloria  learned  to 
be  a  producer  as  well  as  a  star  and  a  financier 
as  well  as  a  producer,  could  not  be  expected 
to  be  any  better  than  it  was. 

Her  second  picture,  Gloria  decided  to  make 
in  California.  On  the  United  Artists  lot  where 
she  would  have  at  least  the  backbone  of  an 
organization  .  to  depend  upon.  So  with  the 
Marquis,  the' two  children,  and  her  retinue  of 
nurses, cooks,  maids,  chauffeurs  and  secretaries, 
Gloria  entrained  for  Los  Angeles.  In  a  private 
car,  as  befitted  a  star-producer  extraordinary. 
It  didn't  matter  that  Gloria  was  broke  and 
could  ill  afford  this  extravagance.  Never  has 
she  dared  curtail  her  scale  of  living.  It  would 
be  fatal  to  her  prestige  and  her  credit. 

On  borrowed  money  Gloria  hired  that  private 
ear! 

I  WELL  remember  the  picture  of  Gloria  taken 
before  she  boarded  the  train.  She  was.  to  all 
appearances,  a  woman  standing  on  top  of  the 
world.  She  must  have  been  worried  beyond 
measure.  She  must  have  been  very  anxious, 
indeed,  about  her  future.  But  in  all  of  her 
photographs  she  managed  somehow  to  look 
carefree  and  radiant  and  confident.  There 
were  sables  around  her  slim  shoulders  and 
she  was  smiling.  Often  in  the  last  few  years, 
no  doubt.  Gloria  has  played  her  greatest  role 
with  her  back  to  the  camera. 

"Sadie  Thompson,"  the  first  picture  Gloria 
produced  in  California,  made  money.  Even 
though  she  again  risked  everything  to  have 
the  production  all  it  should  be,  spending 
S200.000  on  a  change  of  cameramen  and  re- 
takes. Gradually,  you  see,  Gloria  was  master- 
ing the  details  of  production  and  acquiring  a 
surprising  knowledge  of  finance. 

It  was  at  this  time  that  Gloria  moved  her 
producing  unit  over  to  the  Pathe  lot.  Where 
rentals  were  cheaper  than  at  United  Artists 


in  .1  mannrr  entirely  foreign  to  her  nature, 
Gloria  was  Khooling  IutmIi  ti>  watch  • 
penny.    Hut  thr  "Queen  Kelly"  episode  came 
along  .mil  once  ««•""•  to  uae  tli<-  vernacular, 

took  it  on  thr  i  hin. 

\\  ,.! .  )  on  .   |  fog  worry. 

SleepleM  nights     I  cplanationa  and  promises 
to   banken      Hollywood    t<>   be   [need    with 
equanimit)       rhe  necessity  always,  hars 
..>ri. i  rnuil  have  been  standing  up 

of    inn-    million    dollars,  for  her   to  face 

photographers  and  reporter!  and  Lntervii 

as  though  the  pattern  of  her  life  was  quite 

■erenc 

NEEDING  money  to  Bve,  there  was  only 
one  tiling'  Gloria  could  do,  and  she  did  it 
She  sold  the  lowly  old  country  house  she  had 

hoped   WOUU   gTOW   with   the   years   into  .1   re.il 

home.  ( )n  this  wooded  estate  she  hail  dreamed 
of  imprinting  the  history  of  hex  family.    She 

had  hoped  to  know  the  shade  of  trees  they 
themselves  had  planted,  BO  drink  wine  from 
vines  they   themselves  had   trained.      She  had 

Eictured  her  far-reai  hing  gardens  grOU  tag  more 
eautiful  with  each  succeeding  year 

I  am  certain  signing  the  hill  of  Sale  for  this 

Eropertv  wai  0M  of  the  most  difficult,  heart- 
reakin^  things  Gloria  Swansea  ever  has  had 

to  do  Hut,  through  all  of  it  she  held  her 
proud  head  high. 

It  was  at  about  this  time,  furthermore,  that 
the  Mari|uis  began  to  grow  restless  at  his 
anomalous  position  as  the  husband  of  a 
famous  woman.  Gloria,  I  am  sure,  loved  her 
husband.  I  know  she  went  out  of  her  way 
to  make  him  important,  too.     But  there  were 

some  circumstances  beyond  her  control.    She 

WSS  famous.  He  wasn't.  She  couldn't  change 
that.  Ami  men  aren't  fitted  to  play  second 
fiddle. 

Perhaps  it  would  have  helped  matters  if 
Gloria  and  the  Marquis  had  been  able  to  get 
away  for  holidays  together,  intimate  holidays 
in  France.  Hut  through  the  years  of  their 
marriage,  Gloria  had  no  time  for  anything  like 
this,  little  enough  time  to  spend  with  the 
Marquis  in  their  own  home.  There  were 
always  many  claims  upon  her  every  hour. 

Gloria's  career  as  star-producer  seemed  to 
be  costing  her  dearly.  To  it  she  had  sacrificed 
herself,  her  home  and  now  her  husband.  And 
you  can  be  sure  it  was  no  help  to  Gloria  to 
realize  with  that  just,  clear-thinking  brain  of 
hers — the  very  brain  that  had  led  her  into 
such  difficulties,  almost  a  man's  kind  of  brain 
— that  it  was  because  of  her  professional  life 
that  her  marriage  had  failed.  Always  Gloria 
has  admitted  the  difficulties  which  beset  a 
star's  husband.  She  never  has  broken  with 
her  husbands  in  bitterness;  rather  with  under- 
standing, as  if  she  didn't  quite  blame  them. 

"The  Trespasser"  and  its  success  must  have 
seemed  to  Gloria  like  an  oasis  in  a  desert. 
Hut  since  the  profits  only  squared  her  accounts 
after  "Queen  Kelly,"  it  did  nothing  to  alleviate 
the  pressing  need  for  money  that  she  had 
experienced  now  for  four  years.  A  pressing 
Deed  for  money,  when  she  might  have  had 
twenty  thousand  dollars  deposited  to  her 
account  every  week  and  nothing  like  the  worry 
and  responsibility  she  has  known. 

HKR  bankers  now  insisted  on  another  pic- 
ture immediately.  SO  they  might  profit  on 
the  success  of  "The  Trespasser.  They  tel- 
ephoned. They  telegraphed.  Cross-conti- 
nental  wires  buzzed. 

All  of  which  explains  "What  a  Widow." 
The  idea  for  this  picture  was  formulated  in  a 
single  day.  Production  was  rushed.  And 
when  it  was  finished  inside  of  twenty-one  days, 
Gloria  realized  that  it  must  be  cut  so  the 
action  would  be  rapid  and  the  audience  given 
no  time  to  think  or  analyze. 

She  should  have  had  a  holiday  at  her  beach 
house  at  Malibu,  long  warm  hours  in  the  sun 
with  her  two  children.  Weeks  in  which  to 
relax  and  build  up  fresh  energy.  That  she 
has  kept  her  beauty  and  enthusiasm  and 
charm  throughout  these  years  seems  a  miracle 
to  her  friends.     But  again,  the  vacation  she 


PHOT0P1  11    M  u.\/iM     i  OS   Jl  1 


NOW 

A  S5  00  PRODUCT 

IN  A  NEW 

5100 

SIZE  PACKAGE 


139 


jMsflP' 


U^jwmzifi£Miuf  J^ 


TODAY,  ZIP  is  the  only  Epilator 
available  for  actually  destroying 
hair  growths,  by  removing  the 
cause.  Tested  over  a  period  of  twenty 
years,  ZIP  has  met  every  requirement 
and  has  been  used  by  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  women  for  permanently 
destroying  hair  on  the  face,  arms,  legs 
and  underarms. 

So  simple.  So  quick.  ZIP  leaves  no 
trace  of  hair  above  the  skin;  ...  no 
prickly  stubble  later  on;...  no  dark 
shadow  under  the  skin.  .  .That  is  why 
so  many  stage  and  screen  stars  as  well 
as  Beauty  Specialists  recommend  ZIP. 

ZIP  is  pleasant  to  use,  safe,  and  de- 
lightfully fragrant.  It  is  this  product 
which  I  use  at  my  Fifth  Avenue  Salon. 
It  acts  immediately  and  brings  lasting 
results.  Now,  in  its  new  package,  it 
may  be  had  at  $1.00. 

ITS  OFF  /xxaiuL.  ITS  OUT 

To  permanently  destroy  hair  ask  for 
ZIP  Epilator— \TS  OFF  because  IT  S  OUT 
New  Package  $1.00 — de  luxe  size  55.00 


JVlme.  Berthe  Discovers 
Safe  Cream  Depilatory 

'As  delightful  as  your 

choicest  cold  cream 

Now  York — For  twenty  years  Mme.  Berthe"  has^ 
warned  arainst  the  use  of  cream  depilatories. 
Now  she  has  Anally  succeeded  in  formulating,  a 
product  which  she  can  conscientiously  rcrom-^ 
mend.    Recent  recognition  was  Riven  to  Mme 

JUST  spread  the  new  ZiP  Depila 
tory  Cream  over  the  hair  to  be 
removed,  rinse  off  with  water,  and 
admire  your  beautiful,  hair-free  skin. 
If  you  have  been  using  less  improved 
methods,  you  will  marvel  in  seeing  how 
long  it  will  be  before  even  the  slight- 
est semblance  of  hair  reappears — and 
then  only  fine  hair.  Zil*  Depilatory 
Cream  leaves  no  unpleasant  odor,  no 
irritation.  It  is  the  most  modern,  and 
relieves  you  of  every  fear  of  later 
stubble   or    stimulated    hair    growths. 

For  removing  hair  and  discouraging 

the  growth,  ask  for 

ZiP  Depilatory  Cream.  Giant  tube  50c 


And  if  you  insist  on  using  the  razor  at  times.  .  .  .  take  this  advice  from  one  who  knows:  Protect 
the  skin  before  applying  the  razor.  Simply  spread  ZIP-SHAVE  over  the  surface  .  .  .  and  shave. 
The  application  of  ZIP-SHAVE  not  only  speeds  up  the  razor,  but  overcomes  chap  as  well.   Tube,  f  0c 


562  FIFTH   AVE.,  NEW  YORK 


ZIP  Epilator,  ZiP  Depilatory  Cream, 
and  ZIP-SHAl  E  can    be   had  at  all 

good  stores.    If  your  dealer  is  out  of 
stock,  use  the  coupon. 


For  personal  advice,  consultation  or 
demonstration,  all  without  charge. 
Call  at  my  Salon.  Regular  treatments 
at  nominal  prices. 


ENTRANCE   ON  46th  STREET 


If  dealer  cannot  supply  you  .  .  use  coupon 

MADAME   BERTHE' 
562  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York 

I  enclose  i Please  send  me 

DA  Package  of  ZIP  Epilator  ($1.00) 
DA  Tube  of  ZiP  Depilatory  Cream  (50c) 
DA  Tube  of  ZIP-SHAVE    Uc) 

Name 

Address 

City  A  State  — 


140 


FRECKLES 

Remove  The  Ugly  Mask 
This  Way 


Only  that  freckle-mask  keeps  you  from  a  lovely 
complexion.  Get  rid  of  those  homely  spots  and 
your  skin  will  look  soft  and  fine  instead  of  dry 
and  harsh;  clear  fresh  and  young  instead  of 
rusty,  patchy  and  old. 

What  you  need  is  Othine-double  strength. 
After  a  few  nights'  use  of  this  dainty  white 
cream,  you  should  find  that  even  the  worst 
freckles  are  disappearing  while  the  lighter  one3 
have  vanished  entirely.  It  seldom  takes  more 
than  an  ounce  jar  of  Othine  to  fade  out  those 
homely  blemishes  and  restore  the  natural 
beauty  of  your  skin. 

Be  sure  to  ask  for  Othine-double  strength  at 
any  drug  or  department  store.  Money  back  if 
it  does  not  remove  even  the  worst  freckles  and 
leave  your  complexion  soft,  clear  and  beautiful. 


FREE 


BOOK 


Harry  Reeer,  Ch  lef 

oftheClicquotClub 
Eskimos,     premi^** 
banjo  soloist  and 
Uacher. 


Shows  you  the  way  to 

popularity,  pleasure. 

Digger  incomewith  an 

easy  playing  Gibson 

banjo,  guitar,  mandolin  or  ukulele. 

If  no  teacher  in  your  town  ask  about 

Reser'a  Correspondence  Course. 

FREE  TRIAL;  EASY  PAYMENTS 
on  any  Gibson.  Send  for  your  book  now. 


•01   PARSONS  STREET,  KALAMAZOO,  MICH. 


SHAPE  ++ 
,™NOSE 


87,000  men  and 
women  have  used 
the  ANITA  Nose 
Adjuster  to  improve 
their  appearance. 

Shapes  flesh 
jind  cartilage 
of  the  nose  — 
quickly,  safely  and  painlessly,  while  you 
sleep  or  work.  Your  age  doesn't  matter. 
Results  are  lasting.  Doctors  praise  it.  Small 
cost.    Money-back  guarantee. 

Send  for  FREE  BOOKLET 
"The  Nose  and  Its  Shape" 

ANITA  INSTITUTE,  F28  Anita  BIdg.,  Newark,  N.  J 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

had  earned  was  out  of  the  question.  Gloria 
went  into  the  cutting-room  herself.  And, 
often,  after  her  assistants  had  gone  home  to 
hot  dinners  and  good  books  or  happy  en- 
gagements, she  remained  working  for  many 
hours. 

It  was,  however,  at  this  juncture  in  her 
career  that  Gloria  felt  she  must  do  something 
to  make  money — enough  money  to  insure  her 
children's  future.  She  said,  quite  frankly, 
that  she  had  reached  the  point  where  she 
didn't  feci  she  had  the  right  to  keep  on  as  she 
had  been  doing — that  it  was  all  right  for  her 
to  gamble  on  the  uncertain  profits  of  a  pro- 
ducer, but  that  she  must  not  subject  her  two 
children  to  this  risk.  Therefore,  she  decided 
to  sign  a  contract  with  a  company  to  star  in 
their  pictures,  dividing  her  time  between  these 
appearances  and  making  the  two  additional 
pictures  she  still  has  to  produce  under  her 
arrangement  with  United  Artists. 

METRO-GOLDWVX-MAYER  im- 
mediately offered  her  SI, 600,000  for  four 
pictures  to  be  made  within  two  years. 

United  Arlists,  her  own  organization,  offered 
her  $1,000,000  for  four  pictures,  explaining 
that  although  she  would  be  sacrificing  S600.000 
by  remaining  with  them,  she  would  be  protect- 
ing her  own  interests. 

It  was  with  United  Artists  that  Gloria  signed. 
Certainly  this  seems  a  very  loyal  thing  for 
her  to  have  done.  Whether  or  not  it  was  wise, 
remains  to  be  seen. 

The  first  picture  in  which  United  Artists  cast 
Gloria  was  "Indiscreet."  They  had  the  song 
writers,  De  Sylva,  Brown  and  Henderson, 
under  contract.  But  musical  productions  are 
admittedly  out,  and  United  Artists  knew  that 
to  put  this  picture  across,  they  must  give  it  a 
big  star. 

Gloria  went  into  this  production,  knowing 
that  there  was  only  one  chance  in  a  hundred 
of  its  being  good.  She  realized,  too,  that  to 
appear  in  a  poor  picture  was  to  risk  her 
popularity  and  jeopardize  the  profits  of  the 
two  pictures  she  has  yet  to  produce. 

She  did  everything  in  her  power  to  make 
"Indiscreet"  a  success.  She  had  the  dialogue 
changed.  She  had  five  songs  cancelled.  She 
influenced  all  manner  of  scenes  being  retaken. 
However,  it  must  have  been  a  relief  to  her  to 
know  that  it  wasn't  her  money  being  spent. 
It  must  have  cheered  her  to  realize  that, 
whether  the  picture  was  a  success  or  a  failure, 
she  would  be  $250,000  richer  for  having  ap- 
peared in  it. 


30  DAYS 

HOME  TRIAL 


Madison 


A 


Overlooking  Ocean  at  Illinois  A 

ATLANTIC  CITY,  N.  J. 

!  Spring  is  in  the atr— Summer's  in  the 
offing!  For  the  hctter  enjoyment  of 
these  seasons  come  to  The  MADISON  .  .  .  where 
modern  service  and  comforts  give  a  new,  true  luxury 
to  rest  and  play. 

Attractive  Rates  an  American  and  ICttra- 
nean  Plans.     Eugene  C«  Fetter,  Mn^.  Dir. 


FETTER       &       HOLLINGER,       INC 


Money   for   You! 

See  page  40  of  this  issue  for 
Photoplay's  $5,000 

Cut    Puzzle    Contest 


"For  the  first  time  in  three  years,"  Gloria 
said,  "I  am  really  happy.  I  know  that  with 
the  money  I  will  make  in  these  four  starring 
pictures,  my  children's  future  will  be  pro- 
tected. " 

Finishing  "Indiscreet,"  Gloria  planned  to 
produce  one  of  the  two  pictures  she  still  has  to 
make.  For  some  time  she  has  owned  the  rights 
to  "Rockabye. "  It  is,  she  feels,  the  best 
story  she  ever  has  had.  What  is  more,  it 
won't  be  an  expensive  picture  to  produce. 

Samuel  Goldwyn,  now  head-man  at  United 
Artists,  asked  Gloria  to  have  Chanel,  the 
famous  Parisian  modiste  and  now  a  member 
of  his  organization,  design  and  make  her 
clothes.  But  Gloria  refused.  Chanel,  she 
admitted,  might  be  a  wizard  for  drawing-room 
clothes,  but  that  isn't  any  guarantee  that  she 
knows  how  to  make  screen  clothes.  And 
Gloria  knew  if  her  clothes  didn't  photograph 
well,  it  would  mean  retakes  and  delays  that 
might  increase  her  production  costs  many 
thousands  of  dollars.  Gloria,  you  see,  has 
learned  to  say  no.  During  her  last  difficult 
years  she  has  discovered  that  she  must  think 
things  out  for  herself  and  not  be  swayed  by 
the  advice  of  others. 

Well,  United  Artists  then  offered  to  buy 
"Rockabye"  from  Gloria,  produce  it  them- 
selves, and  give  her  the  regular  salary  for 
starring  in  it.  However,  all  they  offered  for 
the  story  was  S25,000  and  Gloria  has  spent 
exactly  S100.000  on  "Rockabye."  To  make 
up  the  S75.000  difference,  the  company  did 
agree  to  give  Gloria  fif  ty  per  cent  of  all  profits 
over  S100,000.  Under  such  an  arrangement, 
there  was  a  chance  that  Gloria  would  not  get 
her  money  back. 

XTATURALLY,  she  refused  the  offer.  And 
■^now  United  Artists,  at  logger  heads  with 
her  for  the  moment,  insist  her  spirit  isn't 
right.  As  if  without  the  right  spirit  and  lots 
of  it,  Gloria  could  have  survived  the  last  few 


years 


All  of  which  gives  you  some  idea  why  the 
majority  of  stars  prefer  to  have  others  produce 
their  pictures  while  they  concentrate  on  their 
particular  job  as  a  star. 

And  all  of  which  gives  you  a  picture  of 
another  Gloria  .  .  .  the  Gloria  her  intimate 
friends  know — and  worry  about — and  admire 
tremendously  ...  a  Gloria  quite  as  beautiful 
.  .  .  brilliant  .  .  .  even  more  fascinating  than 
the  Gloria  seen  on  the  screen.  But,  whether 
or  not  this  Gloria  is  a  woman  to  be  envied  is 
something  you  must  decide. 


She  Wants  to  Thrill  Us  to  Tears! 


CONTINUED  FKOM  PAGE  67 


She's  been  happier  ever  since.  It  predicts  her 
greatest  screen  success  ten  years  from  now! — 
in  1940  or  1941.  She  will  be  rich  and  famous 
throughout  the  remainder  of  her  life,  she's 
assured. 

SHE  has  a  chameleon  bead  which  she  always 
carries  with  her.  It  was  sent  her  by  a  British 
soldier  in  the  World  War,  just  before  he  went 
into  battle.  She  never  heard  from  him  again. 
She  calls  it  her  "good  luck  piece." 

She's  one  of  the  best-loved  women  in 
Hollywood,  and  never  forgets  a  friend — or 
relative. 

She's  not  rich  now  for  the  main  reason  that 
she's  spent  so  much  for  others  that  she  hasn't 
much  of  her  income  left  for  herself.  For  years 
she  sent  money  to  more  than  a  half  dozen 
families,  more  or  less  closely  related.  "They're 
Fazendas,"  she  explains,  simply. 

Fazenda  is  her  real  name.  Translated,  it 
means  "farmer."  She  hopes,  when  she  retires, 
to  settle  down  on  a  big  ranch,  and  make  the 
name  come  true. 

At  Christmas  time  she  sends  innumerable 


baskets  of  home-made  goodies  to  her  rich 
friends,  because  she  can't  buy  them  anything 
they'd  rather  have.  And  she  gives  even  more 
baskets  filled  with  necessities  to  poor  families 
delivering  them  personally.  The  records  of 
Los  Angeles'  charitable  organizations  are  full 
of  phrases  like  " — a  poor  family,  that  would 
have  been  in  desperate  need  had  it  not  been 
for  help  given  by  Louise  Fazenda,  a  motion 
picture  actress — " 

She  does  her  own  marketing  most  of  the 
time  in  Los  Angeles'  "Centrai  Market."  She 
studies  types  while  she  does. 

She  prefers  to  meet  people  at  luncheon,  on 
the  theory  that  people  get  better  acquainted 
while  eating  together.  And  for  days  she  is  so 
moody  that  she  breaks  luncheon  engagements 
one  after  the  other.  After  her  mood  is  over 
she's  very  contrite. 

MUCH  of  her  moodiness  is  attributable  to  a 
terrific  arthritis  that  has  only  recently  been 
bested.  For  many  pictures  she  went  through 
her  comedy  scenes  suffering  excruciating  pain. 
Specialists    could    do    nothing.      Finally   she 


•i  obscure  practitioner  who,  for  .1 
three  dollar  fee,  did  something  to  her  spine 
sh<-  hasn'1  suffered  lince  He  raid  it  had  come 
from  one  "'  thote  "funny  falls"  in  her  early 
comedy  >i 

A\  1 1  although  the  played  for  years  in  funny 
fighting  this  fierce  pain,  bei  husband 

She's  a  "birthdaj  rememberer."    When  ^ln- 
meets  people,  she  somehow  worms  the  date  of 
their  birth   tr<>m   them.     She   6I< 
Then,   when   the  date   rolls  around,   shi 
members  with    i  gift      Hei  own  birthd 
June  17 

Shi-  read  deal    either  "high  bi 

literatureof  thenon  in  tion  type  or  the  trashiest 
l^mil  ot  detective  stories  She  likc->  virtually 
any  kind  ol  food  i  little  too  much,  it'-  said 
but  particularly  lo\  es  ch 
aboul  fishing,  and  swims  .1  lot,  but  neither 
golfs  nor  rides  She  saves  >t.im|>-.  from  lu-r 
foreign  fan  mail  and  sends  them  to  her  k i< I  fan 
mail  writers  in  this  country,  who  are  nuking 

Stamp  i  ollet  tions. 

Shi  ibout  green,  '"I'l  most  of  her 

dresst  en.     1 1  «-r  whole  house  is 

carpet.-.  I  in  ureen 

she  bates,  above  everything  else,  to  have 

photographs    taken 

she's  afraid  of  burglars,      she  awakened 
one  nigh)  and  found  a  man  in  her  room.    She 

Mil  I  he  man  Bed.  BeCaUSC  that  was 
on  the  ground  lloor.  she  has  never  slept  on  the 
ground  iloor  -.hue.  it  she  could  avoid  it  IliT 
own  house  i-  connected  with  a  buszer-alarm 


PHOTOPl  w    M\..\/i\i.   rOB   Jim.   1931 

'ii    with    thai    of    ha    mother,    next    iloor. 

she  goes  to  very  few  parties,  and  beloi 
no  i  luli>     "I  don  I  tit  in  dubs,"  she  explains. 
She's  very  quiet    it  parties,  and  not  at  all   i 
funny  perform!  :mk-  into  an  ol 

corner  and  stays  there  "I've  never  been 
funny  at  a  part  People 

to  be  funny,  and  so  I  i  an't 
me 
she   like-   grand    perfumes   and    beautiful 

underwear  '.  lor      main  I 

couldn't    afford   either,"   she  She 

spent    her    whole    lir-t    mo\  ie    |ia\    ■ 

Ol   i  heap  perfume  an. I   i-amly  umh  ■ 
Ihr   lir-t    job   WSJ  a-  an    Indian   girl   I 

slu-  never  got  before  the  camera  all  day  long, 
ainl  was  surprised  when  they  handed 
two  dollai  <  h. '  k  at  the  end  ot  the  da 
She  decided  then  that  m  to  be  her 

H  't  her   olij.  -  OUght 

to   lie  a    typist    or  a   teai  her  or  something  oT- 

tain,  like  that    He  doesn't  remember 

it.  now. 

Clll    is  a  ventriloquist,  and  often  plaj 

^tricks   on    her   friends       She   attributes    her 

voice  ability  to  the  fact  thai  several  of  her 
relatives,  including  her  mother,  are  bard  of 
hearing,  and  she  had  to  develop  voice  control. 

She    imitates    every    Strange  laugh  she   bean, 
practices  it.  and  then  USCS  il   in  a  screen  role. 
She  can  imitate  a  man'-  vuii  e  to  perfei  tion. 
She   won't    work   or   make   engagements  for 

Sunday-. 

"That  day,"  -he  explain-,  "belongs  to  Hal 
and  me." 


I4I 


Hamilton  1 

*  eta 

LIPSTICK 


UNMASK    YOUR    LIPS! 

•  The  ordinary  lipstick  is  a  mask. 
Phantom  Red  is  fransparenf  —  re- 
veals all  the  charm  of  your  smile, 
the  appealing  texture  of  your  lips. 
And  its  color  is  the  real  "life  red" 
that  courses  beneath  the  skin  .  .  . 
at  last  captured  by  science  and 
blended  in  a  lipstick  that's  utterly 
different!  Harmonizes  with  every 
complexion.  Use  it  today  for  new 
youth  andvital  allure. Also  Phantom 
Red  Rouge,color  twin  to  the  lipstick. 

Phantom  Red  Lipstick,  $1.00;  Junior,  ioc.  Route 
Compact,  75c.  Sold  a;  Uadint  toilet  goods  counters. 

SEND   10c 

for  vanity  aiw  Phantom  Red  Lipstick.  Ifceach 
additional   brings    dainty  model   Rouge,   I 
Shatlow  (blue.  t>;  |,  Brow  Liquid 

(brown  or  black).  Carlyle  Laboratories,  Inc., 
.   N.  Y. 


THE    REAL"LIFE   COLOR" 


"Yes,  sir,"  says  Jiggs,  the  old  African  trader,  "I  brung  the  little  varmint 

down  with  one  shot."    An  authentic  scene  from  M-G-M's  barkie  "Trader 

Hound."     Note  that  this  is  a  heretofore  unshot  type  of  hippo.     He  dies 

as  he  sleeps,  with  his  right  eye  open 


TWO  BLONDES 
wanted  him  . .  BUT 

ONE  was  a  dull ,  dingy  blonde.  The  other  had 
golden  hair  that  sparkled — thanks  to  Blonder. 
Of  course  she  was  the  one  who  got  him !  Blondex 
is  a  special  blonde  hair  shampoo  that  not  only 
prevents  darkening  —  but  safely  restores  natural 
golden  gleam  to  faded  light  hair.  Not  a  dye.  No 
harmful  chemicals.  Fineforthescalp.  Tryitto- 
day !   At  all  leading  drug  and  department  stores. 


142 


Sometimes  WE 
are  surprised 

BUT  we  try  not  to  show  it. .. 
This  time  a  husband  said 
his  wife  was  arriving  in  10  min- 
utes, and  could  we  help  him  ar- 
range a  surprise  dinner  party 
for  her?  Here  was  a  list  of  12 
guests  . . .  would  we  telephone 
them  and  "fix  things  up"  while 
he  dashed  to  meet  his  wife  at 
the  station?  There  were  14  at 
that  dinner . .  .  and  his  wife  ivas 
really  surprised! 

It's  our  belief  that  a  hotel 

should  do  more  than  have  large, 
airy  rooms,  comfortable  beds, 
spacious  closets.  Beyond  that, 
we  daily  try  to  meet  the  sur- 
prise situation  (without  sur- 
prise), no  matter  what  the 
guest  wants. 


Extra  service  at  these  25 
UNITED  HOTELS 

NEW  YORK  city's  only  United . . .  .The  Roosevelt 

Philadelphia,  pa The  Benjamin  Franklin 

Seattle,  wash The  Olympic 

Worcester,  mass The  Bancroft 

Newark,  N.J The  Robert  Treat 

PATERSON,  N.  j The  Alexander  Hamilton 

Trenton,  N.j The  Stacy-Trent 

HARRJSBL'RG,  PA The  Penn-Harris 

Albany,  N.  Y The  Ten  Eyck 

Syracuse,  N.  Y The  Onondaga 

Rochester,  N.  Y The  Seneca 

Niagara  falls,  N.  Y The  Niagara 

Erie,  pa The  Lawrence 

AKRON,  OHIO The  Portage 

FLINT,  mich The  Durant 

Kansas  city,  MO The  President 

TUCSON,  ARIZ El  Conquistador 

SAN  Francisco,  CAL The  St.  Francis 

SHREveport,  la The  Washington -Youree 

new  Orleans,  la The  Roosevelt 

new  Orleans,  la The  Bienville 

TORONTO,  ONT The  King  Edward 

NIAGARA  FALLS,  ONT The  Clifton 

Windsor,  ont The  Prince  Edward 

Kingston,  Jamaica,  B.w.  i.. The  Constant  Spring 

<jf&» 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

They  Saved  His  Life 
With  Laughter! 

MM  I  I)  PBOU  PACE  66  ] 


Yet,  when  they  carried  me  off  that  train,  there 
stood  Fatty.  He  had  left  the  cafe  at  four  a.  if.; 
be  was  in  San  Bernardino  at  live  minutes  of  six. 
He  handed  me  four  sheets  of  paper.  '  I  can't 
waste  time  on  you,  old  top.  Here's  some 
laughs. 

'"Got  to  be  back  in  Los  Angeles  by  ten.  When 
you  get  into  town,  give  me  a  ring.'  That's 
what  my  friends  did  for  me. 

"Marion  Davies  sent  two  projection 
machines  down  there.  The  gang  with  whom 
I'd  worked,  like  Norman  Kerry  and  Mickey 
Xeilan,  the  Wampas  boys,  were  always  run- 
ning down  to  see  me  and  bringing  me  a  picture 
with  them.  When  they  noticed  I  was  getting 
tired — I  was  always  on  my  back — it  would  be 
something  like  this:  'We  must  toddle.  You're 
a  retired  plutocrat  now  and  can  stay  up  all 
hours,  but  we're  working  boys  and  got  to  be  up 
early.' 

"And  they'd  go,  believing  I  thought  it  was 
because  of  them — anything  not  to  remind  me 
of  my  condition. 

"They  moved  me  to  my  cottage  at  Del  Rey. 
It  was  the  same  thing  there.  No  matter  how 
busy  Bebe  Daniels  and  her  mother  were,  or 
Renee  Adoree  or  all  the  others,  they  were 
always  bringing  me  down  a  bunch  of  laughs. 
It  was  almost  worth  being  sick  to  know  who 
were  your  friends  and  who  had  forgotten.  I 
found  the  world  was  pretty  good,  though." 

AND  little  Mabel  Normand,  in  her  bed, 
thinking  up  gags  for  her  husband  in  his! 
And  vice  versa.  For  long  months  they  did  not 
know  each  other's  condition.  They  had  a 
mutual  friend  send  joke-telegrams  with  their 
names  signed  to  them.  Each  pulling  the  same 
pitiful  gag  on  the  other!  For  as  Lew  Cody 
had  lived  on  a  sense  of  humor,  so  had  his  wife, 
Mabel  Normand. 

One  day  they  carried  him,  still  flat  on  his 
back,  in  to  see  Mrs.  Cody  flat  on  hers.  The 
two  swapped  new  stories  for  two  hours.  When 
they  carried  him  out,  both  collapsed.  But  not 
before  each  other. 

He  recovered  before  she  passed  away.  Then 
it  was  his  turn  to  spend  long  hours  searching 
for  new  jokes  to  take  to  the  hospital  to  her. 
He  spent  other  long  hours  seeing  talking 
pictures  that  he  might  describe  them  to  her. 


June  Birthdays 


June    1 — Clive  Brook 
June    1 — Ralph  Graves 
June    2 — Hedda  Hopper 
June    5 — Bill  Boyd 
June  11 — Gilbert  Emery 
June  12 — William  Austin 
June  13 — Basil  Rathbone 
June  14 — Cliff  Edwards 
June  14 — Charles  King 
June  16 — Norman  Kerry 
June  16 — Stan  Laurel 
June  16 — Ona  Munson 
June  16 — Barry  Norton 
June  17 — Louise  Fazenda 
June  17 — Evalyn  Knapp 
June  18 — Edmund  Breese 
June  18 — Ivan  Lebedeff 
June  18 — Jeanette  MacDonald 
June  18 — Blanche  Sweet 
June  22 — Jack  Whiting 
June  26 — Ernest  Torrence 
June  27 — Robert  Ellis 
June  28—  Polly  Moran 
June  28 — Lois  Wilson 
June  30— Madge  Bellamy 


What  $2.50 

Will  Bring  You 

In  twelve  issues  of 
Photoplay  hundreds 
of  unusual  pictures  of 
photoplayers  and  illus- 
trations of  their  work 
and  pastime. 

Scores  of  interesting  ar- 
ticles about  the  people 
you  see  on  the  screen. 

Splendidly  written 
short  stories,  some  of 
which  you  will  see 
acted  at  your  moving 
picture  theater. 

Brief  reviews  of  cur- 
rent pictures  with  full 
casts  of  stars  playing. 

The  truth  and  nothing 
but  the  truth,  about 
motion  pictures,  the 
stars,  and  the  industry. 

You  have  read  this  issue 
of  Photoplay,  so  there  is 
no  necessity  for  telling  you 
that  it  is  one  of  the  most 
superbly  illustrated,  the 
best  written  and  most  at- 
tractively printed  maga- 
zines published  today  — 
and  alone  in  its  held  of 
motion  pictures. 

Send   a    money   order   or   check 
for  $2.50  addressed  to 

Photoplay  Magazine 

Depl.  H-6,  919  No.  Michigan  Av.,  CHICAGO 

and   receive  the  next   issue  and 
eleven  issues  thereafter. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Department  H-6 
919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  $2.50  (Can- 
ada $3.00;  Foreign  $3.50),  for  which  you  will 
kindly  enter  my  subscription  for  Photoplay 
MAGAZINE  for  twelve  months  (twelve  issues) 
effective    with   the   next   i^ue. 


Si  n.l  to . 


Street  Address. 
City   


State 

i... 


1 1  ir  01     i t,"  Lew  l •  I  In  -  bead 

into  hia  haadi  ai  h<  talked  about  il 
Normand,  one  oj   the  ireati  i   the 

nv  .1  talking  pii  tui 
lived  after  they  were  invented  I  tried  t"  tell 
her.  I  law  every  one  I  could  and  d<  ■  rif >i-<  I 
every  word  i"  her.  She'd  try  t'>  understand 
'Bui  do  the  people  sound  natural?'  ibe'd  ask 
a\ ii  and  "■. ei     1 1  •  but  we  would 

always  end  up  w  i  ici  rn<  It  in  ■  iboul  them, 

People  didn't  always  understand  <>ur  mar- 
\\  e  kept  separate  houses,  you  know. 
ami  cars  and  chauffeurs,  but  we  remained 
friends  even  though  we  were  married  Mabel 
wouldn't  appro  iate  i  net  kl  u  e  il  I'd  bup  il  foi 
her     Slu-'' I  be  grateful,  but  i">t  exdted     But 

or  a  new  joke.     I  know  what  a  jol.  il 

lor  in v  friends  to  find  new  ones  for  me  l»  • 

it  was  a  task  getting  them  tor  Mabel     We  both 

knew  almost  ever]  one  in  the  count 

A l  ilk  the  death  of  liis  wife,  hi- 
long  struggle  started,  rhe  professional 
one  There  were  offers  <>f  tiny  parts  in  lii,' 
pictures;  there  wen-  offers  of  big  part--  in  tiny, 
independent  ones.  But  Lea  Cody  didn't  want 
those.  He  wanted  to  come  back  exactly  where 
he  had  left  off. 

"  When  most  people  want  to  conic  hack,  they 
take  anything.  That's  where  they  make  their 
mistake.  'It  may  lead  to  something,'  they 
argue.  It  usually  leads  to  another  of  the  same. 
I  had  never  lieen  in  a  talkie.  They  forgot  I  had 
come  from  the  Stage.  There  were  a  couple  of 
i  of  more  money  than  I  had  received 
before  from  small  companies  in  pictures  which 
might  he  complete  failures.  It  was  hard  to 
refuse  the  big  sums.  It  is  always  harder  to  say 
•no'  than  'yes'  in  this  busil 

•'Hut  I  just  waited  until  Fate  and  (lod  and 
Gloria    SwanSOn    catnc    to    the    rescue.      The 


PH0T0P1  w    M  \i.\/im     i  "K    J' 

I 
not   !m  iiii-  tin-  part .  hut   1)1  i 

handled  mi  it    It 

.uiv  .in.-  Int.  you  m  tin-  law   i  couple  ol  I 
and  I.  OUt,  yOU  I 

w  hi-n  you  mi-i  t  him  I 

been  hit  se^  eral  time  -  and  I  dd  ol 

■ 
••  t  iloria  never  referred  to  my  p 

Shi    Mi ■•. .  i   refei  red  to  it  as  mj 
talkie    She'd  i  on-  ii  It  me  as  to  what  I  would  do 

with  a   scene  and   thin,   nun-   Inn.  -,  out   of   ten, 

she'd  follow  thai  m     vin-  n  itored  my 

confident  e;  made  me  feel  I 

that  my  opinion  amounted  to  something,    My 

I  joked  me  into  health       <  ilori.i  Sa  • 

inspired  my  i  ome  bat  k  to  my  profession 

And  the  last  struggle  the  I >i  •■  -<  t.  p<  rhaps, 
of  all?    f*oday,  hew  ( lody  doesn  I  toui  h  liquor. 

II    lau  jhs  "ii  that  struggle     "I  th.  I 

ling  without  it  while  I  was  ill  that   I  m  vcr 
think  about  ii 

\t  least,  he  never  talks  about  it  and  never 

Seems  to   refuse  it.      He  always  take   thl 
drink   and   has   it   then   when    the   next    one   is 

offered     "To  refuse  is  to  be  urged:  to  accept 

and  then  not  drink  is  to  get  away  from  being 
persuaded. 

" It's  the  best  gag  of  all,  isn't  it?"  His  eyes 
twinkled  I  never  played  ■  drunk  on  the 
screen  in  the  old  days,  in  the  seven  pictures 
I've  made  since  my  return,  I've  played  a  drunk 

in  every  one.  Just  another  of  life's  little 
jokes!" 

T  I'.W  CODY  smiled  with  his  friends  in  his 
■•—'success  and  they  smiled  hack  at  him  He 
smiled  with  his  friends  in  his  sorrow  and  they 
piled  up  extra  smiles  for  him.  There  is  a 
tremendous  lesson  in  the  story  of  Hollywood's 
man  who  actually  did  come  hack! 


'4  \ 


If  a  Baby  Kept  a  Diary 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  V 


"Squeegy-weegy  "  I  giggled.  It's  an  old 
trick,  hut  nohodv  "squeegy-weegys"  just  like 
Dad 

I  laughed  and  kicked  my  cereal  into  nurse's 
lap.  and  she  looked  at  Dad  and  Mother  and 
then  she  sighed. 

So  I  pounded  on  my  tray  with  my  spoon  and 
said  "Daddy"  and  "Mamma,"  and  Dad 
wanted  right  away  to  wire  Aunt  Ethel  and  to 
telephone  I'ncle  Lionel  that  I  had  said  those 
words,  but  Mother  shook  her  head  and  'said 
it  was  too  early  to  call  I'ncle  Lionel  and 
foolish  to  wire  Aunt  Ethel  who  has  children  of 
her  own  and  who  wouldn't  be  at  all  excited. 

THEX  Mother  told  Dad  that  she  thought 
the  nurse  could  take  me  to  the  studio  that 
afternoon  hecause,  she  said,  "both  of  us  will 
he  working  on  the  Warner  lot." 

And  I  got  so  excited  that  nurse  had  to  take 
me  away  for  a  few  minutes  and  when  I  came 
back  Dad  was  saying: 

"My  call  is  for  nine  o'clock  and  it  takes  two 
hours  for  me  to  make  up.  so  I'm  only  a  half 
hour  late  now.  I'll  take  the  roadster  and 
Sam  I  that's  our  chauffeur)  can  take  you  down 
later  in  the  Cadillac.  " 

So  Dad  drank  his  orange  juice  and  took  a 
powder  just  like  he  always  takes  since  he 
caught  jungle  fever  on  that  trip  we  made 
South  when  Walter  wasn't  any  good  as  a 
butler,  and  he  made  an  awful  face  and  said 
something  under  his  breath  and  mother  said, 
"Why  darling  1" 

And  Dad  said.  "Sorry,  dear,  hut  the  stutl 
tastes  terrible."  Then  he  got  up  and  came 
over  to  me  and  rubbed  my  hair  all  the  wrong 
way  and  felt  my  head  and  said.  "She's  a 
Barrymore,  all  right."  And  then  he  went 
away,  hut  at  the  door  he  turned  around  and 
raised  his  left  eyebrow  way  up  high  and  said. 


"Squeegy-weegy"  and  said  goodbye  to  Mother 
and  then  he  went  out. 

And  Mother  moved  her  place  over  nearer 
to  me  and  smiled  and  said.  "You're  a  Harry- 
more  all  right,  hut  you're  a  CosteUo,  too" 
And  then  she  smiled  her  beautiful  smile,  and 
I  thought  how  thankful  I  am  that  she  is  my 
mother  and  not  nurse  who  never  looks  pleasant 
before  it's  nine  o'clock  on  the  sun  dial  that 
isn't  ever  right,  according  to  Walter. 

Then  I  counted  my  toes,  and  I  have  ten. 

By  and  by  Mother  came  along  and  held 
me  tight  a  minute  and  said,  "I'm  goim:  to 
the  studio,  baby  darling,  and  if  you  are  a 
good  girl  nurse  will  bring  you  down  to  see 
me  this  afternoon.     I'm  making  a  picture." 

And  I  didn't  see  why  she  had  to  he  gOl 
long  for  a  picture  because  Dad  or  Mother  or 
I'ncle  Lionel  or  some  funny  men  from  the 
studio  are  forever  taking  pictures  of  me  and 
it  never  takes  very  long,  and  when  it  takes 
very  long  I  start  to  kick  and  then  they  don't 
take  them  any  more. 

So  Mother  went  away.  too.  in  the  Cadillac 
and  I  was  left  alone  to  play  with  nurse. 

Later  when  nurse  was  giving  me  my  hath 
the  new  maid  came  by  and  stopped  at  the 
bathroom  door  and  said: 

"Be  careful  of  the  little  princess." 

And  nurse  said,  "What  do  you  mean, 
prino 

A  NT)  the  new  maid  said.  "I  saw  a  picture 
-»*-not  long  ago  called  'The  Royal  Family  of 
Broadway'  and  it  was  about  this  baby's  father. 
And  he  was  the  funniest  thing  " 

So  I  wiggkd  as  hard  as  I  could  and  nurse 
was  scared  for  fear  I'd  get  soap  in  my  eyes 
and  she  said.  "Go  on  atwut  your  business 
And   the   new   maid    left   and   pretty   soon    I 
heard  Waher  ordering  her  out  of  Dad's  library' 


SKIN 


C    liar  nnd  C    lean 


.  .  .  Yours  if  you  gently  cleanse  the  pores 
morning  and  night  with  Krank  Lemon 
Cleansing  Cream  .  .  .  liquefies  instantly 
...penetrates  deeply.,  .dissolves  impuri- 
ties .  .  .  cleanses  thoroughly.  Unexcelled 
of  any  price.  4  oz.  jar,  one  dollar  .  .  . 
Follow  with  Krank  Astringent  Lotion,  so 
delightful  for  firming  the  skin  . . .  Menfho- 
Lemon  Foundation  Cream,  the  perfect 
powder  base . . .  and  the  softer,  smoother, 
clinging    Poudre    Krank  ...  5  shades. 

Send  50c  in  stomps  for    lovely   3-piece 
■Acquaintance    Set    and    new    Beauty 
Book,  "Captivating  Loveliness"  Write 
Dept.    89,       Krank   Toiletries,     1885 
University  Avenue,  Saint  Paul,  Minn. 


PG  D  K  (cleansing) 

LO10T1  a* All 


STREAKED 
HAIR? 


This  way 

brings 
even  color 


CADED  streaks  — dull  strands  — grayness  — 
•'■all  vanish  at  the  touch  of  this  tamous 
clear,  water-like  liquid.  Just  comb  it  on 
and  color  comes:  black,  brown,  auburn, 
blonde.   Hair  stays  soft —easy 

»to  curl  or  wave  .  .  .  Entirely 
SAFE.   Millions  know  this 
j    p       time-tested  way. 

\  ' 7  Test  it  FREE~V.x\\  you  try  Marr 
\f     T.  Goldman's  on  a  single  lock  snip- 
ped from  hair.'  No  risk  this  way.  No 
expense.    *w'e   send  complete  Free 
Test  Package.  Just  mail  the  coupon. 

-  MARY  T.  GOLDMAN  " 

24H  Goldman  Bldg.,  St.  Paul.  M.nn. 


Strccr 


Citv- 

Color  of  your  hair* 


'44 


PERFECT  PURSE -SIZE  PERFUME  SPRAY 


ROM  a  wearing 
day  to  a  wonderful  night 
you  go  well  groomed  with  a 
Itonson  Perfu-Mi8t  —  the 
"saving  grace"  of  your  pre- 
ciousperfumes.Quicklvadds 
fresh  fragrance.  $5.00  and 
up  at  smart  shops.  Write  for 
catalog  and  name  of  nearest 
dealer.  • 

ART  METAL  WORKS,  Inc. 
Aronaon  Sq.,  Newark, N.J. 
Canada:  Dominion  Art  Metal 
Work*,  Ltd.  Toronto,  Ontario 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

and  telling  her  not  to  touch  anything  in  there 
because  "Mr.  Barrymore  never  allowed  any- 
body to  touch  anything  in  the  library,"  and 
I  grinned  because  when  I  am  in  the  library 
Dad  lets  me  touch  anything,  and  once  I  tore 
a  leaf  in  a  book  worth  ever  and  ever  so  much 
money  and  Dad  just  laughed  and  took  the 
book  away  from  me. 

SO  that  afternoon  nurse  took  'me  to  the  studio. 
First,  I  had  my  nap  and  I  was  so  excited  I 
thought  I  wouldn't  sleep,  but  nurse  put  me  to 
bed  in  my  crib  that  stands  out  in  the  patio  and 
the  next  thing  I  knew  the  sun  dial  said  it  was 
almost  three  o'clock. 

Sam  drove  us  down  the  hill  from  home  very 
carefully  because  he  said  my  Mother  had  said 
I  was  the  most  precious  thing  in  the  whole 
Barrymore  house.  And  when  we  got  to  the 
studio,  nurse  carried  me  into  a  big  house  and 
there  were  a  lot  of  people  there  and  a  lot  of 
lights  and  then  my  Mother  said  "Darling!" 
and  everybody  looked  at  me  and  Mother  held 
me  close. 

And  Mother  had  her  hair  all  loose  down  her 
back,  like  she  has  at  night  when  she  comes  in 
to  see  that  I  haven't  kicked  out  from  the 
covers,  and  she  had  on  a  beautiful  dress  like 
she  wears  on  Thursday  when  nurse  goes  out 
for  the  day  and  Mother  takes  care  of  me  all 
herself. 

And  Mother  said: 

"I  don't  have  to  work  any  more  today, 
do  I,  Mr.  Henley?" 

And  Mr.  Henley  said  "No."  So  Mother 
gave  me  back  to  nurse  and  we  all  went  to 
Mother's  dressing-room  and  Mother  put  her 
hair  up  again  and  rubbed  her  face  hard  with 
towels  and  then  she  took  me  and  we  went 


RUNNING  HOT  WATER 

Direct  From  Your  Faucet 

Continuously — Instantaneously 

A  necessity  wherever  there 
is  electricity,  either  direct 
or  alternating  current.  Slips 
on  and  off  any  faucet  very 
easily.  Will  heat  water  con- 
tinuously—  instantaneously. 


Price 


$/:.5o 


HOT 
WATER" 


Postage  prepaid  if  re- 
mittance accompa- 
nies order. 

Address  Dept.  37 
K  W IK  Electric  Co. 

865  Springfield  Ave. 

Irvington,  New  Jersey 

AGENTS  WANTED 

In  All  Territories 


HOTEL 

■JUDY 


South  Carolina  Ave. 

•t  the  Boardwalk 
Atlantic  City,  N.  J. 
ATLANTIC  CITY'S  NEWEST 

Centrally  Located  Fireproof  Hotel 


SO'lO    EuroPean 
£  R.B.I 


American     ft  t 


LUDY,  M.D. 


nhance  your  charm! 

Get  Utia  deliehtful  book— CHARM  by  Margery  Wilson— 
today  and  let  it  open  new  doors  of  joy  and  opportunity 
■JJJ7     for  you!     "So  one  is  utterly  without   ehnrm."  wvs   Miss 
■"■W       VV.l-.nn — "and  no  one  is  .1.  charming  at  he  can  be.'f     From 
her    Motion   Picture   expenenc* — and   from   her  own  ex- 
perience of  life — she  tells  hi m ply.  prartic.illy,  delightfully,  how 
anyone,   in  any  walk  of  life,  ran  be   more  altrartive  and.  es- 
pecially, mora  imainibla  to  the  opposite  sex.     Here  are  soma 
<.f    the    chapter    headings:      Charm,    Be  in*    Natural.    Pl.v-ir.il 
Charm.     Men    and     Women.    Conversation.    Coireapooi 
Individuality.    Poiae,    Harmony.      (Gel    jrour    copy    today — 
12.50  at  any  bookshop  or  direct  from  the  publishers.  Frederick 
A.  Stokes  Company.  443  4lh  Ave..  New  York.) 


Allen's  Foot* Ease 


SHAKE  IT  INTO  YOUR  SHOES 

Makes  new  or  tight  shoes  feel 
easy.  Soothes  tired,  aching  feet 
and  stops  the  pain  of  corns, 
bunions  and  calluses.  A  Foot= 
Ease  Walking  Doll  Free,  address 
ALLEN'S   FOOT-EASE,  LE  ROY,  N.  Y. 


away  to  another  big  place  where  Mother  said 
we  would  find  Dad. 

And  sure  enough  Dad  was  there,  only  I 
didn't  know  him  at  first  because  he  had  a 
funny  red  beard  that  made  him  look  different. 

And  everybody  who  saw  me  when  I  was 
where  Mother  and  Mr.  Henley  were  said  I 
looked  just  like  "Miss  Costello,"  and  every- 
body who  saw  me  where  Dad  was  working 
said  I  looked  just  like  a  Barrymore. 

So  I  don't  know. 

And  then  a  man  with  a  big  camera,  I  know 
what  a  camera  is  already,  came  by  and  asked 
Dad,  "How  about  a  picture?"  And  Dad  swore 
a  little  and  said  to  Mother,  "Well,"  and 
Mother  said,  "Sure.  It's  the  baby's  first  visit 
to  the  studio." 

So  Dad  and  Mother  and  I  went  outdoors 
and  had  our  picture  taken. 

And  just  then  I  thought  it  would  be  great 
fun  to  see  how  Dad's  beard  had  grown  on  his 
chin  so  fast,  so  I  reached  over  and  pulled  it, 
hard. 

And  Dad  yelled  and  the  man  with  the 
camera  yelled,  and  I  held  still  for  just  a 
minute  and  then  1  yanked. 

And  the  beard  came  off  and  there  was  Dad 
behind  it,  rubbing  his  chin  and  saying,  "the 
little  rascal"  but  not  meaning  it — much. 

SO  Dad  said,  "I  might  as  well  go  home  with 
you  now.     It  takes  two  hours  to  put  the 
beard  back  on  and  it's  too  late  to  do  that. '' 

So  we  all  rode  back  up  the  hill  where  I  live, 
only  I  couldn't  stay  awake  until  we  got  to 
the  top. 

And  nurse  scolded  because  I  was  late  for  my 
cod  liver  oil  and  orange  juice. 

So  I  counted  my  toes.    I  still  have  ten. 


Quick,  Watson,  the  magnifying  glass!  Is  ziss  our  naughty  Maurice 
Chevalier  turning  the  full  glare  of  his  Parisian  molars  in  Helen  Twelve- 
trees'  direction?  Or  is  it  Frank  Woody,  Helen's  new  husband?  It's 
Woody,  all  right,  but  he  had  us  fooled  for  a  moment.  Helen  and  Frank 
were  married  in  Reno  shortly  after  her  divorce  from  Clark  Twelvetrees— 
so  shortly,  in  fact,  that  it  wasn't  legal,  and  they  had  to  do  it  over  again. 
Here's  hoping  that  the  Twelvetxees-Woody  combination  never  knows 
what  it  is  to  have  a  knotty  problem 


Photoplay  M\<.\/im    rem  Ji 


Brickbats  8#  Bouquets 


,i-  at  our  •  o  boon  <>f 

life  gloriously  ii  Garbo  on  the  screen, 

[a  it  now  that  the  ii  not 

i.  rioualy  eni  fm  itii .  t>ut  merely  dumb? 

J  \SI      Hi    \M>, 

Louts\  iUe,  Ky. 

On  the  Garbo  article  written  by  Miaa  \ll><-rt 
to  enlighten  us.  my  only  comment  is,  ii  is  all 
wrong.    I'll  never  buy  Photopi  v>  again. 

Anni     M  ISTEBY, 

•  [aland  City.  \    5 

Ik)  is  a  nperb  actresi  and  to  say  sin-  is 
phlegmatic  is  an  absolute  atrocity. 

Frances  weight, 
Altoona,  Pa. 

Catherine  AJberl  may  circulate  all  the  lies 

she  likes  atwut  Garbo,  l>ut  we  refuse  to  pay  for 
the  privilege  of  reading  them.  I  shall  never 
buy  another  issue  of  PHOTOPLAY. 

Mrs.  John  Rwdu.l, 
Auburn,  Bfaas 

I  that  Katherine  Albert  has  stripped 
Garbo  of  her  "mystery"  and  made  of  her  a 
human  being,  we  are  more  than  ever  Garbo 
fans. 

Aim  v  I    C.\kd\i  i  . 
Glasgow,  l 

My  hat  is  off  to  you  for  your  article.  "  I  \- 
ploding  the  Garbo  Myth."    Garbo  i»>~ 
nothing  which  entitles  her  to  the  title,  "The 

Great  Garbo."    Of  course,  it  isn't  her  fault 

that  she  has  been  labeled  "the  mystery 
woman."  Her  rise  in  this  country  was 
meteoric  She  wrapped  herself  in  a  mantle  of 
silence  to  avoid  blunders  and  ridicule.  She  is 
not  a  genius.  The  secret  of  her  acting  lies  in 
the  control  of  the  muscles  of  her  face,  but  she 
is  incapable  of  reaching  down  deep  enough  to 
strike  the  chord  of  human  emotions. 

M.  Cabmen  Com 

Washington,  D.  C. 

Thank  you  a  thousand  times  for  your  article. 
"Exploding  the  Garbo  Myth."'  It  took 
courage  to  tear  away  all  the  hokum  surround- 
ing her  and  reveal  the  truth. 

Louise  Kramf.r, 

P?oria,  111. 

\  rreal  big  Iwntquet  for  the  explosion  of  the 
■  Garbo  myth."  While  I  believe  1  enjoy  a 
Garbo  picture  a^  well  as  the  next  person,  she  is 
only  another  actress  to  mc.  Too  many  people 
have  allowed  themselves  to  become  hysterical 
over  her. 

Pai  i  ore  Morris, 

Yamhill,  Ore. 

Your  excellent  article  in  April  Photopi  vv, 
"Exploding  the  Garbo  Myth."  met  with 
hearty  appreciation  in  our  family.  I  have  Ions: 
been  weary  of  the  ( ',arl>o  adulation.  I  refuse  to 
be  bored  with  reiterations  of  her  "allure"  and 
"mystery."  and  can  frankly  say  that  I  find  her 
merely  human,  as  Miss  Albert  - 

Dorothy  Sage  W'ymw. 

Embreeville,  Tenn. 

My  sincerest  congratulations  on  your  article, 
"Exploding  the  Garbo  Myth."  I  am  an 
ardent  Garbo  fan.  nevertheless  I  am  intensely- 
bored  at  the  stories  concerning  the  Glamorous 
Swede's  aloofness  and  utter  indifference  to 
those  who  worship  her. 

Winifred  Evans, 
New  York  City 

"Trader  Horn" 

I've  never  enjoyed  a  picture  as  I  did  "Trader 
Horn."    Your  tine  article,  "How  Trader  Horn 


w  i  mw  h  appro  i  ited      This 

pit  tun  had  been  .1  m>  -I. tv  to  .ill,  but  "truth  i-. 
better  than  In  lion 

I. II  I  I  \\    Kl    MM      I'l 

tteville,  \   ' 

"Skippy" 

"Skippy"— what  a  puture!  fackie  Cooper, 
Bobby  Coogan  ami  Jackie  Searie  are  wonder 

kids.       They  put    more   feeling  and   emotion    m 

their  acting   than   many   an   adult    -.tar       Thai 

i^;  ICene  at    the   bedside  had  everyone   in 

tears,  including  myself. 

Km  \  FUR<  in, 
lli.  en,  Conn. 

"The  From  Page" 

Three  cheers  for  "The    Front    Ps 

only  because  it's  the  best  newspaper  play  ever 
written — thrilling,  moving,  vivid  and  true,  but 
because  they  had  the  uncommon  good  sense  to 
leave  it  alone  and  film  it  just  as  it  was  written 
for  the  Stage. 

And  that  man  Menjou!  He  gives  the  best 
show  of  his  life! 

BORACE    Tunc  III  I  I  . 

Red  Oak,  Iowa 

Duck  Your  Head,  Boh! 

I  note  with  great  pleasure  that  Robert 
Montgomery  is  to  be  starred.  I  use  the  word 
"pleasure"  advisedly  because  now  I  shall  be 
able  to  see  my  favorite  feminine  stars  without 
seeing  Mr.  Montgomery.  He  has  ruined  more 
pictures  for  me  than  any  man  in  Hollywood. 
M.  Weight, 
Chattanooga,  Tenn. 

Now  Take  a  Bow  ! 

Here  is  my  prescription  for  the  perfect  movie 
actor  in  just  two  words:  Robert  Montgomery. 
Helkn  Rodri* 

New  Orleans,  La. 

Not  Much  to  Ask 

Some  things  I'm  waiting  for: 

Gary  Cooper  in  a  decent  suit  of  clothes. 
Constance   Bennett   looking   really   inter- 

ested. 
Clara  Bow  with  her  hair  combed. 
Charles     ex-Buddy)    Rogers    in    a   good 
picture. 
Barbara  Stanwyck  again  and  again. 

Mrs.  Rosella  Adetns, 

Latonia,  K.y. 

Random  Opinions 

Clara  Bow  is  netting  too  old  to  be  called  the 
"It"  girl.     Let  her  show  us  some  acting  ability. 
Pi  \ri.  Willi  wis. 
Henderson,  Ky. 

Norma  Shearer's  clothes  are  getting  too 
eccentric.  She  should  take  lessons  from 
Claudette  Colbert. 

After  seeing  "  Reaching  for  the  Moon"  I  am 
convinced  that  Doug  has  it  all  over  Chevalier 
for  personality. 

Kay  Francis  should  go  back  to  her  boyish 
bob.    She  is  losing  her  personality. 

Bkrt  Mi  LlNDON, 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

Who  says  John  Gilbert  is  through?  I  saw 
"  Gentleman's  Fate"  and  he  was  GRAND.  If 
he  can't  talk,  I'm  tongue-tied. 

A  Fan. 
Sioux  City,  Iowa 

Marlene  Dietrich  certainly  has  the  legs  to 
give  the  perfect  "kick"  to  her  audience. 

HlLDE   DtSHINSKI, 

Chatham,  111. 


Down 

go    flu    shades! 

When  the  shades  of  the  night 
COHM  dow  n,  the  ahaCsCS  of  rouge 
gO    lip.     I  be  livelier  \  OUT  check* 

are  —  the  more  stylish! 

I'o-CJo's  new  color  Cardinal  is 
"it"  — tor  this  bright  new  eve- 
ning make-up. 

Po-Go  goes  on  smoothly  and 
quickly —  blends  beautifully — 
Lists  the  day   through,    Po-Go 

is  Parisian  made,  by  band,  of 

the   finest    French    ingredients. 

50c  bfinga  vou  chic  cheek  stvle 
in  a  petite,  gav  box.  Ever)  where 
in  the  U.S. and  Canada... or  by 
mail  from  Guy  T.  Gibson,  Inc. 
565  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York  City 


OVJO  ROUGE 


Made  and 
packaged 
'n  France 


WetoitckinchKYE*  § 


Maybelline  Eyelash  Darkener 
will  instantly  transform  your 
lashes  into  a  dirk,  luxuriant 
fringe,  making  them  appear 
longer.  Harmless  and  easy  to 
use.  A  touch  of  Maybclline 
Eye  Shadow  to  your  eyelids 
will  add  depth,  beauty  and 
"cTprmsum."  Form  the 
brows  with  the  clean,  smooth 
Maybclline  Tyebrow  Pencil- 
then  you  will  have  re -made 
your  eyes  into  soulful  pools 
of  loveliness.    Insist  upon  the 

fienuine  —  preferred  by  mil- 
ioos   for  ovet  fifteen   years. 


&n&&&e£&yz<2 


"Tint 

GRAY 
HAIR" 

Urine  bark  to  unsightly  erav. 

:  air  ltd 
natural  r-'I.r  and  beau'y.  In- 
stantly easily  Impart  any 
■hade  from  lightest  blnnd  to 
deepest  black  Just  comb  thru 
■ate.  sun?  Hrownatone.  r  *- 1 
by  n  ■•  r  20  years. 

Sati??actl"n    guaranteed.      Ab- 
solutely     harmless     to     hair, 
alp   or  skin       AM    dealer*.    60c. 
^■aVSSV     Or  send  1(V-  for  I  rial 
Pkaraucal  C*  .  Deal    Fit  B  twiut  BHj..  Ceriaftaa.  Ky. 

ROWNATONE 

TINTS   GRAY  HAIR  ANY  SHADE 


B 


Protect  your  charm  and  your 
clothes,  this  sure,  quick  way 

•  Smart  women  find  Heck  De- 
odorant ideal  for  instant,  lasting 
protection  from  perspiration  and 
perspiration  odors.  This  deodorant 
is  so  pure,  colorless  and  odorless 
that  you  can  apply  it  as  directed  at 
any  time.  It  is  cooling,  soothing, 
lefreshing.  Protect  your  charm, 
your  daintiness  and  your  dresses 
with  this  precious  liquid.  50c  and 
$  1  at  your  drug  or  department  store. 
#Send  10c  for  liberal  trial  size  and 
silhouette  of  Caroline  Heck  to  hang 
in  your  room.  Heck-Conard  Co., 
919  E.  21st  St.,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 


He  Said  He'd 
Never  Marry! 

•pHEN  he  met  this  girl.  She 
■*■  had  read  the  secrets  of 
"Fascinating  Womanhood," 
a  daring  new  book  which 
shows  how  any  woman  can 
attract  men  by  using  the 
simple  laws  of  man's  psy- 
chology and  human  nature. 
Any  other  man  would  have 
been  equally  helpless  in  her 
hands.  You,  too,  can  have 
this  book;  you  too,  can 
enjoy  the  worship  and  admir- 
ation of  men,  and  be  the 
radiant  bride  of  the  man  of 

your  choice.  Cut  out  this  ad;  write  your  name  and  ad- 
dress on  the  margin  and  mail  to  us  with  10  cents  and  a 
little  booklet  entitled  "Secrets  of  Fascinating  Woman- 
hood," giving  an  interesting  synopsis  of  the  revelations 
disclosed  in  "Fascinating  Womanhood,"  will  be  sent 
postpaid.  No  embarrassment — the  plain  wrapper  keeps 
-our  secret.  Send  your  dime  today. 
THE  PSYCHOLOGY  PRESS  Dept.  4- 

585  Kinftsland  Ave.,  St.  Louis.  Mo. 


Have  Shapely  Limbs  .  .s6.75 
or  Slender  Ankles  ....  5.00 


Relieve  swelling  or  varicose 
.  veins  and  reduce  your  limbs 
with  Dr.  W  alters  famous  medi- 
cated (llesh  colored)  gum  rubber  hose. 
Vv'ornnexttotheskintheyfitlikeaglove 
end  you  can  see  the  improvement  at 
once.    For  over  25  years  they  have 
helped  thousands  of  people,  and  are 
worn  all  over  the  world. 
Send  ankle  and  calf  measure.  Pay 
by  check  or  money  order — 
(no  cash;  — or  pay  postman 

Dr.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER 
389  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York 

Near  36th  St..  Suite  60S 


per  pair 


FJ?FF  BEAUTY  ADVICE  „ 

J.  JV I  rf  frf    and' How  to  Fascinate  Men 

Over  100 ,000  women  use  Lucille  Young  Beauty 
Methods.  My  fifteen  years'  experience  justi- 
fies your  confidence.   Quickly,  surely  end  pim- 
ples, biackheads,  wrinkles,  muddy  skin,  oily 
,  ekin, freckles, coarse  pores.  Develop, reduce — 
Wig    any  port  of  body,  or  entire  body.   Grow — ye* 
f     prouf— eyelashes, eyebrows.  Make Bparse hair 
luxuriant,  dull  hair  bright.    My  beauty  help 
differs  because  scientific.    No  pay  if  not  de- 
■**-  lighted. 

rnrr  rrni  if  Send  for  unconditional  free  trial  offer. 
I  l\£.Ls  1K1AJ-.  No  obligation.  Two  full  weeks  to  find 
out  by  actual  use  of  my  beauty  aids.  Also  free  instruction  ia 
Fascination,  how  to  win  love.  My  book  tells  all.  Just  write, 
"send  Free  Trial  Offer".  Write  today. 
LUCILLE  YOUNG,    S566   Lucille  Young   BIdg..  Chicago,  ID. 

Name 

Street  Addreaa 

City State 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

Nowadays  in  the  movies  the  villain  is  always 
more  charming  than  the  hero.     And  far  more 
handsome.    What's  to  be  done  about  it? 
Ruth  Spai  i.ding, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

I'd  rather  see  Leila  Ilyams  in  her  clean, 
romantic  comedies,  than  overtax  my  imagina- 
tion trying  to  figure  out  what  some  big  star  is 
trying  to  say  with  her  eyes. 

Orville  M  in  mar, 

Dayton,  Ohio 

Paul  Lukas'  acting  is  thrilling  in  its  sincerity. 
The  magnetic  tones  of  his  speaking  voice  linger 
with  me  long  after  the  picture  is  over. 

A.  K.  Wood, 
Germantown,  Penna. 

Of  course  Dolores  Del  Rio  is  lovely,  but  when 
it  comes  to  the  perfect  figure  no  one  can  com- 
pare with  Joan  Crawford. 

Mrs.  Fred  Seeback,  Jr., 
•Charleston,  S.  C. 

Joan  Crawford  is  losing  her  charm.  She's 
too  thin. 

Beatrice  Long, 
Detroit,  Mich. 

Mickey  Mouse  is  my  favorite  on  the  screen 
and  "Rango"  the  most  thrilling  picture  I've 
ever  seen. 

Blaire  Dean, 
New  York  City 

I  feel  grossly  insulted  at  the  opinion  the  pro- 
ducers must  have  of  the  fans  to  inflict  upon 
them  the  mental  agony  of  Laurel  and  Hardy's 
stupid  comedies. 

Ruth  Greexwald, 
Atlantic  City,  N.  J. 

Phillips  Holmes  is  not  only  handsome,  but  he 
has  the  most  pleasant  personality  on  the  screen 
today.  His  acting  should  make  old  troupers 
hang  their  heads  in  shame. 

Mildred  Thompson, 
Richmond,  Calif. 

I  love  Dorothy  Mackaill  for  her  unstudied 
poise  and  her  intelligent  interpretation  of  every 
role.  She  has  all  the  magnetic  vigor  of  a 
healthy,  wholesome,  outdoor  girl. 

Eva  Dunbar, 
Oakland,  Calif. 

Ruth  Chatterton  is  the  Emily  Post  of  the 
screen.  \Ye  go  to  her  pictures  and  try  to  grasp 
poise  and  culture. 

Pearl  Wiixxams, 
Henderson,  Ky. 

Dietrich  and  Garbo  occupy  definite  places  in 
afferent  spheres.    Dietrich,  the  joy  and  love  of 
life.    Garbo,  the  mystery  and  riddle  of  life. 
Kathrvn  V.  West, 

Chicago,  111. 

All  my  pet  adjectives  don't  do  justice  to 

Claudette  Colbert  after  seeing  her  in  ''Honor 

Among  Lovers."     I   wouldn't  dare   turn  my 

head  for  one  moment  while  she's  on  the  screen. 

Vincent  Belgarbo, 

Chicago,  111. 

We  all  realize  that  Garbo  lost  much  of  her 
mystery  and  allure  by  speaking,  whereas 
Norma  Shearer,  who  was  colorless  in  silent 
pictures,  gained  a  sparkling  personality  in  the 
talkies.  Her  laughter  is  sunshine  to  our  souls. 
She  is  exquisite. 

Besse  C.  Butler, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Dorothy  Lee  is  all  sparkle,  dimples  and 
bright-eyed  smiles.    We  all  adore  her. 

Pauline  Augexsteix, 

Zanesville,  Ohio 

I'd  drop  any  appointment,  however  impor- 
tant, to  go  and  see  a  Constance  Bennett 
picture. 

Lucille  Augensteix. 

Zanesville,  Ohio 


Now  I've  seen  Lew  Ayres,  my  old  idol, 
Buddy  Rogers,  has  faded  from  my  vision.  Lew 
is  the  best  actor  on  the  screen  today. 

Paul  Herring, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

No  one  can  hold  a  candle  to  Yilma  Banky 
for  talent,  charm,  and  the  ability  to  act — not 
even  the  Great  Garbo  herself. 

Marie  Johnson. 

Chicago,  111. 

"Fifty  Million  Frenchmen"  was  ruined  be- 
cause of  no  Cole  Porter  music.  What's  the 
matter  with  the  producers? 

Marguerite  Henderson, 
Rockville  Center,  N.  Y. 

The  "romantic  age"  has  returned.  When 
will  producers  realize  the  fact  and  return 
romance  to  the  screen? 

M  Vi  E.  Henry. 
East  Cleveland,  Ohio 

No  humdrum  future  for  Elissa  Landi. 
"Body  and  Soul"  gave  us  promise  of  truly 
great  things  to  come  from  the  strength  of  per- 
sonality and  really  exquisite  charm  of  this  new- 
comer to  moviedom. 

James  N.  Yohe, 
South  Orange,  N.  J. 

Page  Mr.  Gilbert 

It  has  been  said  that  John  Gilbert  cannot 
make  a  good  picture  without  Garbo.  How- 
ever, if  Garbo  makes  another  "Inspiration" 
she'd  better  start  hunting  up  Gilbert. 

Ann  Towers. 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 

"Parlor,  Bedroom  and  Bath" 

"  Parlor.  Bedroom  and  Bath"  excels  any 
picture  I  have  seen  for  some  time,  and  Buster 
Keaton  and  Charlotte  Greenwood  deserve  a 
lot  of  praise.  After  the  usual  run  of  pie-throw- 
ing junk  they've  been  calling  "comedies"  this 
picture  comes  as  a  welcome  relief. 

John  A.  Penny, 
Yakima,  Wash. 

"The  Millionaire" 

At  last  George  Arliss  has  given  us  a  char- 
acterization close  to  our  own  hearts.  His  por- 
trayal of  a  real  American  in  "The  Millionaire" 
will  have  a  more  universal  appeal  and  win  him 
the  enthusiastic  following  such  a  great  artist 
deserves.    It's  a  great  picture! 

Nadine  McCormtck. 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

"Dracula" 

Give  us  more  pictures  like  "Dracula."  It  is 
the  best  murder  mystery  I've  ever  seen.  Bela 
Lugosi  was  magnificent.  He  almost  hypno- 
tized the  audience. 

Louis  Moen, 
Montreal,  Can. 

Why  can't  pictures  of  frenzied  horror  such  as 
"Dracula"  be  eliminated  entirely  from  the 
screen?  Life  is  hectic  enough  without  torment- 
ing us  with  pictures  of  this  kind. 

Ethel  S.  Cook, 
Montgomery,  Ala. 

A  Beal  Tragedy 

This  idea  of  good-looking  actors  growing 
moustaches  is  getting  to  be  a  tragedy.  First 
John  Gilbert.  He  started  it.  And  then  Ramon 
Novarro.  Chester  Morris  and  Conrad  Nagel  go 
and  ruin  their  handsome  countenances,  and 
even  Buddy  Rogers!  Now  it's  Charlie  Farrell 
and  Bebe's  own  Ben  Lyon.  It's  too  much. 
They  can't  all  be  William  Powells. 

E.  Merle  Elliott, 

Yincennes.  Ind. 


Talkie  Technique 

In  defence  of  Cliff*—  Morris.  Pd  h; 
answer  the  critiei»n]  "i   Miss  Gilmor  who,  in 

the  March  issue  ol  Ph play, deplored  the 

■  ii  ( Ihestei  'i  mouth.  N  ou 
would  hardly  expect,  Mist  GUmor,  the  hero  ol 
••  i  he  Hi-:  it  ■mil  "  Mii>i"  to  come  out 

under  machine  gun  fire  with  Little  Red  Riding 
1  under  his  .inn  .md  u  -ill  day  luckei  in 
hia  mouth.  * 

S    B    HOW  IRD, 

Fort  Worth,  I 

Sure-Fire  Entertainment 

We  icarcdy  gel  acquainted  with  the 
already  placed  in  our  celluloid  firmament  l><- 
fore  a  new  one  appears  on  the  horizon. 

I  chooef  my  entertainment  from  the  si 

know  .uul  like  so  I  am  always  sure  of  getting 
something  worthwhile. 

Mas.  J   E.  Brosk, 
\\  arren,  <  >hio 

"All  Quiet" 

H  'A  very  true  this  statement  which  I 
the  other  every  '  Ml  Quiet  on  (he 

\\  tern  Front'  we  have  to  suffer  rune  hundred 
and  ninety  nine  other  pictures." 

"Suffer"  seems  to  me  an  apt  word.    We  are 
fed  up  with  the  trite  and  frivolous  talkies  that 
an-  handed  to  us  in  such  abundance. 
II  \ r< >i  i>  II   Dan  u 

Weehawken,  N.J. 

me  "All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front" 

was  the  finest  motion  picture  I  have  ever  seen. 

Hut  I'll  admit  that  my  feeble  brain  could  not 
stand  a  steady  diet  of  these  terrific  dramas. 

The  tight  and  frothy  comedy  dramas   ire  very 

nary  to  the  movie  goer's  diet,  so  why  all 

the  cries  for  "bigger  and  better"  pictures!' 
HARRIET  .\h\, 

( >ma!ia.  Neb. 

Advertising  Campaigns 

We    don't    mind    paying    large    admission 

prices  to  see  a  good  show,  hut  please  do  not 
annoy  us  with  flagrant  advertising  campaigns. 
Let  grocery  clerks  and  door-to-door  canvassers 
sell  us  our  household  luxuries. 

Willi  \\i  1.  Bridges,  Jr. 

Kansas  City.  Mo. 

Some  of  these  "advertising"  shorts  are  very 
interesting.  The  other  night  I  saw  one  in  which 
they  showed  scenes  of  Xew  York  from  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Twentieth  century  up  to  the  present 
time  and  I  got  a  real  thrill  out  of  it.  To  me 
these  are  so  much  more  entertaining  than  the 
bad  comedies  we've  been  given  lately. 
Aw  Wakely, 
Richmond,  Va 

True,  you  find  a  clever  short  subject  now 
and  then,  but  the  majority  are  dull  and 
boring  monstrosities,  and  we  could  do  with- 
out them. 

I..  I).  Fackleb, 
Roanoke,  Va. 


Pbotopi  w  M  \'.\/im    i  "i'  Jim.  1931 

On    Mii-.i«- 

\\  hy,  oh  why,  must  SOOM  really  line  pit 
be    totally    ruined    by    the    COntUIUO 

music  which  accompanies  them  in  mi  beginning 

to  cud  and  drowns  out  all  dialogue  and 
sound  t 

.IM  \  S\i  ri  , 

Hollywood,  Calif. 

Give  us,  if  you  must,  you  producers,  i*H>r 
story,  |»M>r  dialogue,  but.  give  us,  plea 
abundance  and  in  perfect  appointment 

music 

\\  i m  ii  i  n  D  Farley. 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

Satire  ii»  Sound 

I  have  never  been  a  Chaplin  fan,  but  after 

seeing  "City  Lights"  I  bow  to  a  unique  indi- 
viduality.    II        itire  in  sound  was  illumiiiat- 

E  C.    Bl    iu  R, 

I. os  Angeles,  Calif. 
Tin-  Talkies  as  a  Builder-1  pper 

The  thoughts  contained  in  picture  dramas 
have  transformed  despair  into  life  and  hope 
for  many  men;  they  have  urged  many  a  drifter 

to  focus  his  course  upon  a  definite  goal;  they 

have  ever  been  I  he  source  of  Consolation  in 
time  of  need;  and  they  will  forever  serve  us  as 
an  endless  volume  in  our  quest  of  knowledge 
and  education  They  enliven  our  liner  sensi- 
bilities and  stimulate  them  on  to  higher  aims. 

Fred  Zimmerman, 

Louisville,  Ky. 

Exploitation 

In    the    advertising    matter    displayed    to 

entice  movie-goers,  is  it  necessary  almost  al- 
ways lo  portray  the  heroine  practically  nude, 
and  a  man  hanging  over  her  in  a  kissing  scene, 
suggesting  this  as  the  high-spot  of  the  picture!-' 

Louise  M.  Connell, 

Lexington,  Ky. 

Why  don't  they  find  a  star  to  tit  the  story, 
instead  of  spoiling  a  good  story  to  lit  the 
star  ? 

ji  wi  in  Young, 

Chevy  Chase,  Md. 

Read   Your  Reviews! 

If  the  movie  audience  would  stop  taking  a 
chance  on  their  movie  entertainment  and  read 
the  reviews  there  would  be  a  lot  fewer  mal- 
contents writing  to  this  department. 

The  stage  fan  has  been  discriminating  for 
a  good  many  years,  due,  perhaps,  to  the  high 
price  of  tickets.  Now  pictures  are  being  made 
with  definite  audiences  in  mind  and  if  you 
wish  to  keep  from  being  disappointed  you  had 
better  take  the  professional  critic's  word  for 
the  type  of  picture  it  is  and  how  good  it  is. 
Shop  for  your  pictures.  It  will  save  you 
money. 

J.  H.  Loss,  Jr., 
Stanford  Univ..  Calif. 


•47 


She  Has  Hollywood's  Number 


CORNS 


Instant  Relief! 

I  >i  S<  boll's  Zino-pads  end  corn  pain 
instantly.  Their  soothing,  healing  modi* 
cation  gives  jroo  this 
quick  relief.  Their  cush- 
ioning! pi  ol  n  live  fea- 
lure  removes  b  iction  and 
pressure  of  shoes,  pre- 
vents blisters.  Corns 
nex  er  come  back  if  Zi  no« 
p.ols  are  applied  at  first 
«ign  of  Boreness  from 
new  or  tight  shoos. 

100%  SAFE! 

ZinO-pads  are  -at.-      -ure. 

I  -ing    harsh    liquids  or 

f Masters  often  causes  .«  id 
Mini.  Cutting  \our  corns 
o  r  ea  Houses  in  vi  tea 
blood-poisoning.  Zino- 
pads  are  small,  thin, 
as  i  nt  v.  Made  i n  spec- 
ial sizes  for  <  !orn-.  ( 'orns 
between  toe-.  ( iallonaes 
a  ml  Bunions.  Sold 
everywhere—  >  Sc  box, 

DrScholls 

Zino-pads 

/'nt  one  on — the  " pain  is  gone! 

(hsfis)  Names 

*~    f°r 

Campers  £  Travelers 

IVrsimal      belonetngs.     wearables. 

linen  Riulbe  market  win 

away,    t  A    It  :>rr  the 

,-.     •.      „:,•,-.        r:,    -•     ...     •    .••,   r  ,1 

onlcr  tr 

TRIAL  OFFER      s-ni  \0r  for  one 

■ir  own  first 

__^^p^i     name    woven    In     last 

^^g     iga    thread    on     One    ram- 

^  brir  ' 

J.  &  J.  Cash,  Inc. 

lilil  V  .  U.   Imn,  Ctaa. 

■  M45  So    tttmrtt  Plan. 

lot  Anet'n.   C»l..  m 

71   firir  SIimI.   Btitnllkt.  W. 


CONTINUED  FROM  iwc.l    69  | 


have  been  in  a  plaster  cast  for  five  days.  In- 
stead she  went  back  to  work  in  twenty-four 
hours,  wearing  an  especially  built  steel  corset. 
Because  of  this  bit  of  trouper  courage,  one  leg 
will  always  be  an  inch  shorter  than  the  other. 

Now  Barbara  is  a  success.  "This,  my  dear, 
is  Barbara  Stanwyck.  Have  you  seen  her  lovely 
picture  'Illicit'?'' 

N'ot  long  ago  it  was  rumored  that  Frank's 
option  would  not  be  renewed.     In  this  event 


Barbara  was  prepared  to  refuse  her  flattering 
otter  from  First  N'ational — whose  coders  she 
had  helped  to  fill — and  return  to  New  York 
with  him.  But  Frank  has  a  new  contract  now, 
so  Barbara  is  sticking  around  for  awhile.  But 
this  sequence  of  circumstances  has  done  some 
pretty  definite  things  to  the  woman's  char- 
acter. 

She's  got  Holly-wood's  number.    She  knows 
you're  loved  for  your  success  and  your  success  I 


Famous     ^  o  in  e  n  — 

of  tin-  Stage  and  Screen  have 
used  ami  recommended  La- 
blache  Face  Pom  dei  for  %  car-. 

Let  it  be  your  choice  too.  La- 
blache  atbls  a  touch  of  loveli- 
ness. All  shades.  At  your 
Druggist. 

S«a»!  («r  ampk  It  ttm  Itn  C*  .  13  RmfslM  Si    B*Hm  Mats. 


i48 


Pin 
Money 

For  Our 
Readers 


PHOTOPLAY  now 
offers  its  readers  the 
opportunity  to  convert 
their  spare  time  into 
real  money  by  becoming 
its  subscription  repre- 
sentatives in  the  town  or 
community  in  which 
they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of 
Photoplay,  will  be 
quick  to  realize  the 
money-making  possibil- 
ities this  offer  affords 
you. 

Your  friends  —  your 
neighbors  —  in  fact,  all 
the  homes  in  your  com- 
munity— are  prospective 
subscribers  for  PHOTO- 
PLAY. Who,  today,  is 
not  interested  in  moving 
pictures — the  chief  rec- 
reation of  the  American 
public? 

Be  the  first  in  your 
community  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  this  offer,  and 
get  started  at  once.  The 
coupon  or  a  post  card 
will  bring  further  de- 
tails. 


Name. . 
Address. 
City 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  June,  1931 

alone.  She  puts  no  faith  in  lit ctin^  fame.  Her 
picture  work  gives  her  no  thrill  at  all.  Her 
name  in  electric  lights? — well,  what  of  it!-'  She 
had  that  thrill  when  she  first  played  on  Broad- 
way. It  won't  come  again,  at  least  not  in 
Hollywood.  She  doesn't  like  Hollywood  nor 
the  Hollywood  attitude.  She  realizes  she  has 
only  a  lit  lie  moment  of  glory  on  that  diver 
sheet.  She's  in  the  game  for  (he  money  and,  of 
course,  she's  glad  when  she  does  a  good  picture. 
Hut  there  arc  other  things  so  much  more  im- 
portant to  her  than  pictures  and  she  feels  sorry 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 

Dept.    RE-6-31,    919    No.    Michigan    Ave, 

Chicago,  111. 

I  am  interested  in  your  money-makinp  of- 
fer to  your  readers.  Send  me  the  details  at 
once. 


.State. 


for  those  poor  women  who  are  in  the  octopus- 
like grip  of  the  studios.  Fame  and  work  are  not 
her  gods.  For  she  has  Frank  Fay  and  when 
they've  both  made  enough  money  they  can  go 
to  F.urope  to  live  as  they  please  and  have  a 
couple  of  children.  Occasionally,  if  Barbara 
feels  like  it,  she  could  do  a  play  in  London  and 
bring  it  into  New  York.  She  could  afford  to 
take  a  small  salary  if  the  play  were  good. 

In  this  way  her  life  would  be  rich  and  full 
and  she  doesn't  care  if  she  never  sees  Holly- 
wood again. 


With  Skippy  on  the  Set 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACK  29 


peculiar  child  psychology — that  readiness  to 
slip  over  into  the  world  of  phantasy  and  be- 
lieve it  real — they  were  easily  convinced  that 
the  cruel  dog-catcher  had  actually  killed  the 
dog-actor  they  had  grown  to  love.  Naturally, 
the  dog  was  kept  off  the  stage  and  set  during 
these  scenes,  so  that  his  presence  would  not 
spoil  the  childish  sad  illusion. 

Moreover,  when  the  child  actors  were  first 
introduced  to  Clifford,  the  actor  who  played 
the  dog-catcher,  they  were  told  that  he  was 
mean  to  dogs.  That  he  had  really  killed  dogs. 
The  campaign  was  so  successful  that  Robert 
came  to  a  publicity  man  one  day  and  said: 

"Say,  do  you  know  what  I  know.  Mr. 
Clifford  has  killed  over  a  thousand  dogs 
already!" 

IT  was  hard  for  Clifford  to  take  it — because 
Clifford  likes  kids.  And  it  was  no  easy  task  for 
him  to  go  about  under  their  reproachful  gaze 
until  the  picture  was  ended,  and  they  were 
told  that  he  loved  dogs  and,  instead  of  killing 
them,  owned  several. 

They  had  a  hard  time  getting  the  fight 
scene  between  Bobbie  Coogan  and  Jackie 
Searle,  who  plays  the  "sissy"  boy.  Searle  is 
anything  but  a  sissy,  actually.  He  can  out- 
run, outfight,  outplay  any  of  the  other  hoys 
in  the  whole  show  at  any  boys'  game!  But  in 
"Skippy,"  he's  the  meanest,  nastiest,  tattle- 
taliest  sissy  that  ever  breathed. 

In  one  scene,  Robert  Coogan  had  to  fight 
him.  But  they  had  played  together,  and 
Robert,  with  the  obstinacy  of  five  years, 
wouldn't  do  it.  His  fight  scenes  were  very, 
very  artificial. 

"You've  really  got  to  hit  him,  Bobbie," 
ordered  Coogan  perc. 

"I  can't.  I  like  him,"  Bobbie  answered, 
simply. 

Coogan,  Senior  got  an  idea.  He  recalled 
that  long  ago,  Jackie  Coogan  used  to  call  his 
kid  brother  "chicken."  Robert  hated  it.  So 
Father  Coogan  went  to  young  Searle  and 
whispered  in  his  ear. 

On  the  next  take  of  the  fight  scene,  as  the 
cameras  started  grinding,  young  Searle — as 
clever  a  child  actor,  by  the  way,  as  Mitzi 
Green,  and  as  good  a  trouper— yells  at  young 
Robert: 

"Come  on  an'  fighl  now,  you  li'l  chicken'.'."' 

Robert's  rage  rose  instantly. 

"You  call  me  that  again  an'  I'll  bust  you!" 
he  defied  in  that  high  soprano. 

"Yah! — Chicken,  chicken,  chicken  .  .  ..'" 
teased  Searle.  And  without  further  ado.  tears 
of  rage  in  his  eyes,  five-year-old  Bobbie  sailed 
into  him.  It  was  a  swell  fight  scene.  Par- 
amount cutters  were  only  sorry  they  had  to 
slice  out  the  part  where  Searle  goaded  him  by 
yelling  "chicken!" 

Jackie  Coogan,  young  man  now,  was  on  the 
"Skippy"  set  only  one  day.  On  that  day.  he 
tried  once  to  tell  his  kid  brother  how  to  do  a 
scene. 

"Say,"  drawled  the  young  Coogan,  "I  wish 
you  weren't  even  here!" 

Jackie  was  kept  away  after  that. 

Of  course,  the  business  of  rewarding  the 
children  was  also  used,  at  times,  besides  en- 


raging them  or  making  them  cry.  For  one 
thing,  the  still  cameraman,  Gordon  Head,  is 
a  genius  at  making  toys  out  of  scraps  of  tin 
and  metal.  He  was  used  more  than  once  as  a 
come-on — like  this: 

"Xow,  Bobbie,  if  you  do  this  scene  good, 
I'll  have  Gordon  make  you  a  boat,"  Taurog 
would  say.  And  he'd  get  a  swell  shot.  An- 
other time,  Taurog  bought  two  boat  models 
at  a  fancy  price  from  some  Mexican  peddlers 
because  the  children  in  the  cast  liked  them. 
The  boats  were  held  up  as  prizes  for  the  child 
who  did  the  best  work. 

Cooper  is  a  strange  lad.  Seven  years  old, 
he  has  the  mentality  of  a  boy  of  ten.  He 
thinks  out  his  acting  more  than  the  others 
who  played  in  the  show.  One  day  his  mother 
was  seen  whispering  into  his  ear,  while  they 
were  getting  ready  for  a  sad  scene.  Then 
young  Cooper  went  into  a  corner  by  himself. 

A  publicity  man,  curious,  went  over  and 
talked  to  him.     "What  you  doing?"  he  asked. 

"Thinkin'  sad  things,"  said  the  boy. 

"Why?" 

"My  mother  told  me  I  gotta  cry  in  this 
next  scene,  an'  I'm  trying  to  make  myself 
feel  sorry,  so  I'm  thinkin'  of  sad  things," 
explained  the  seven-year-old. 

"What  sad  things?"  asked  the  press-agent. 

"Oh,  things  of  my  own,"  said  the  boy. 

By  the  time  he  went  into  the  scene,  what- 
ever he  was  thinking  of  had  young  Cooper 
half  in  tears  already. 

Searle  and  Mitzi  Green — no  need  going  into 
much  about  her  because  you  know  her  so  well 
already — were  the  best  "actors"  among  the 
children.  Bobbie  Coogan  was  least  actor  of 
all — save  for  his  heritage.  This  was  his  first 
work.  It  was  all  new  to  him.  Taurog  and  the 
others  don't  yet  know  whether  that  made  their 
task  easier  or  harder. 

TXCIDEXTALLY,  Bobbie  is  unlike  Jackie 
J-that  way.  Jackie  was  old  enough  while  his 
parents  were  still  on  the  staze  to  absorb  the 
atmosphere  of  play-acting.  Bobbie,  born  after 
his  parents  had  quit,  and  after  his  brother  had 
passed  the  peak  of  his  fame,  never  came  into 
close  contact  with  acting. 

And  his  work  in  "Skippy"  is  even  the  more 
remarkable  for  a  fact  not  so  generally  known. 

He  was  a  premature  child.  He  weighed  but 
five  pounds  at  birth.  Of  course,  he  gained 
quickly — at  ten  months,  he  weighed  twenty. 
"He  was  always  a  healthy  baby,"  his  mother 
insists.  But  the  fact  remains  that  because  of 
the  handicap  of  his  premature  birth,  his 
progress  was  not  that  of  a  normal  baby. 

For  instance,  he  did  not  begin  to  utter 
intelligible  words  until  his  fourteenth  or  fifteenth 
month.  Most  children  can  talk  sentences  well 
before  then.  Bobbie  did  not  walk  until  he 
was  fifteen  months.  Most  babies  walk  long 
before  that  age. 

But  in  "Skippy" — well,  if  Bobbie  Coogan 
couldn't  walk  or  talk  before  his  fifteenth 
month,  then  many  daddies  and  mothers  would 
be  perfectly  willing  to  have  the  same  delay 
with  their  progeny  if  they  could  become  the 
grand  little  youngsters  that  Bobbie  is  on  the 
screen  at  five  years. 


Photoplay  Maoaztni  i<>k  Jim,  1931 


'49 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays    \\q\{  Beauty 


Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


"BORN    It)  LOVE"     i<t."  Pa :rotn    the 

I  lire,  (.  .1    l.\     I ".i nl   I 

Stein,       I  Ports  Km.i.ill.  i  it ; 

J,,,  I  M,  (  t.  .1.   vr  ll  tifrea  Oral 
It.  del  i  k   Kerr; 

r  II  il.  ,   \lajar  Genrral.  Claude   kins;  Duchess, 

Kent.   Edmond   Breonj  Foppish  Gentleman,  l< 

I  •  H<  Imon  .     Butler,     I  ri   1 

Martha  Muttox. 

"BROAD  MINDED"     Fns\    Nationai       Ftetm 
rv  by  Bert  k. ilm.it  and  Hirn  Rub]      Directed 

t.\  Mervyn  LeR  '  •■   ' 

Win.    Collier,   Ji 
Palmer.    On.i    Mi  l»fe    Packer,    Marjorie 

ton;  Pancho 
Aran,  Gertie  Gardner,  Thelnu  Todd; 

\unl    Polly. 
■    Harnpto 

"CHER]   mm       M-G-M    -From  the  novel  by 

Diret  ti  il   l>\    John   S.    R.l»  rtaon. 

John  Gilbert ;    <  e  tit,   Leila 

Hyams:  Costaud,  Lewis  Slum-;    Herman,  Jean  Her- 

sliolt;   Bourrditr,  C.    Vubrey    Smith:   Vera.   Natalie 

Marquis    I>u    Touchais,    Ian    Keith;   Dr. 

Carta,  Alfred  Hk  kman. 

•city   STREETS" — Paramount.  —  Ftom    the 

l     Hammett.      Adapted    bj     Max 

M.ir.  in.      Directed    by    Rouben    MamouHan.      The 

Vhe  Kid,  <..ir\   Cooper;  Aran,  Sylvia  Sidney; 

:■  tul   Lukas;    Vtci  oy,   William 

Kibbee;    />'<'.:.  lie,    st.mli  v 

Fleldi .  lly  Sinclair. 

"CLEARING  THK  RANGE"  -Allud  -From 
the  store  h\  Jack  Cunningham.  Adapted  l>\  John 
Natteford.  Directed  by  Otto  Brown  The.  cast: 
rtmoni.  Hoot  Gibson;  Mary  Lou  Moron,  Sally 
Eilcrs;  /..!><•  Kitdare,  Hooper  Atcnley;  Juan  Conaras, 
Pad  Moron,  Robert  Homana; 
Samara  l  '  '  I  Srippcn;  <• 

i  Williams:  Sheriff  Jim  Burke,   Edward   Piel; 
i\im    Vaeka,   Jack    Byron;   Jim    I  dward 

I  learn. 

"COMPLETE  SURRENDER"— M-G-M  — From 
tin-  play  "Torch  Suit"  by  Kenyon  Nicholson.  Di- 
rected by  Harry  Beaumont.  Ti.  Joan 
Crawford;  Howard,  Neil  Hamilton;  CoW,  John  Mack 
Brown;  Rasy,  Marjorie  Rambeau;  (  ass  Wkeater,  Guy 
Kibbee;  Prii  Gear,  Roscoe  Karns;  Edna,  Gertrude 
•  r .  Hump  y,  i  .■  orge  P.  M.i- 
rion;  link,  Bert  Woodruff. 

"DAYBREAK"— M-G-M.— From  the  story  by 
Arthur  SchniUler.  Adapted  by  Ruth  Cumminga, 
Jacques  Feyder.  The  cast:  Willi,  Ramon 
Movant);  Laura,  Helen  Chandler;  1 1  err  SihnaM,  Joan 
Hcrsholt;  General  Von  Hart-,.  ('.  Aubrey  Smith; 
V/illiam    Bakewell;   i'.mily   Kessner,    Karen   Morley: 

..jr.  Kent  Douglass;  From,  Glenn  Tryon; 
Clyde  Cook;  limit.  Sumner  Getchell;  I'rau  Hoffman. 
Clara     Blaiulick;    1 1  err    Hoffman.    Edwin    Maxwell; 
I,  Jackie  Stark. 

"DUDE  RANCH" — Paramount. — From  the. 

:     Milton  Krims.    Screen  play  by  Percy  Heath, 

Grover   Jones   ami    Lloyd    Corrigan.      Directed    by 

Frank  Tuttle.     The  cast:  Jenifer.  Jack  Oakio;  Chester 


i  .irr .   Stuart    Rrwin;   Judd.    '  I 

Mii/i   Gi 

■x  lion;   !/i 
ton;    / 

inc. 

I    \M  !■  I  n;->r     N  mm-  pin) 

llip  Barry      Vdapled  in   !<..(>■  n  Pri    m  II     lit- 
b)    Robert  Milton.     I  land  White, 

-leriik 
White,  Jnhii   Darrow;  (.'     /     Warren,  Oacal    Vpfel; 

M.rk.  I;   Die  pdromSSS,   N.  -ll.i  Walk.  r. 

"INDIS1  REET"     I'-.uii.    UtTnrra. — From  the 
il   Impulse"  l>\   DeSylva,  Brown  .v 
Hendi  rson      Direct 

j.rr\   Geraldint  Trent),  Glori  Tony  Blake, 

Ben  Lyon;  Jim  Joan 

Trent,  Barbara  Kentj  Hunter  CoUins,  Arthur  Lake; 
li<n;  Kate.  Maude  Bourne;  Mr.  Woodward,  Henry 
K.ilk.r;  Mr,.  Woodward,  N.  ll.i  Walker. 

"IRON  MAN"  — Untvrrsal. — From  the  novel  by 
W.  K.  Burnett.  Scenario  bj  Francb  Edwards  Far- 
agoh.    Directed  by  Tod  Browning.    Th. 

Lew  Ayres;  Regan,  Roberl  Armstrong: 
l.ii   Hart  hi  Mil  fan;  Jeff.  Eddie  Dillon; 

ilin;  Rattler  O'Keefe.  Morrie  < 
7"*#  Show  Girl,  Man  !><.r.in :  <  trt,  Mildred 

Van  Dorn;  Riley,  Ned  Sparks;  Mondell,  Sam  Blum; 
Trainer,  Sammy  Gervon. 

"LADIES'  MAN"  Paramount. — Prom  the  story 
by  Rupert  Hughes.  Scenario  bv  Herman  J.  Mankfc- 
wka  Directed  by  I-ciinr  Mendea.  The  cast  Jame<. 
Darricolt,  William  Powell:  Norma  Pate,  Kay 
Rachel  Pendlty,  Carole  Lombard:  Ihrraie  /. 
Gilbert  Emery;  Mrs.  Pendlty,  Olive  Till;  Anthony 
I'emiley.  Martin  Burton;  Peyton  Wdiion.  John  Hot 
land;  Valet.  Frank  Atkinson;  Therese  lilanton.  Maud* 
Turner  Gordon. 

"MALTESE  FALCON,  THE"— Warnbrs.— 
Prom  the  story  i>v  DashieU  Hammett.  Adapted  by 
Maude  Fulton.  Luden  Hubbard,  and  Brown  Holmes. 
Directed  by  Ko\  Del  Ruth.  Th.<a-t:  Ruth  Wonderly. 
Bebe  Darnels;  Sam  Spade,  Ricardo  Cortex;  Gutman. 
Dudley  Digges;  Bffut,  1'na  Merkel;  Detectiw*  Dundy, 
Robert  Elliott;  Pothous.J.  Farrell  MacDonald;  Cairo, 
(Hto  Matiesen;  District  .Attorney.  Oscar  Apfel;  Archer, 
Walter  Lone;  Wilmer.  Dwit:iit  Frye;  Ivu  Archer, 
Thelma  Todd;  Captain  Jacolii,  AugOStino  Bnr^alo. 

"MEET   THF   WIFE"— Columbia.— From   the 

play  by  Lynn  StarliiiR.  Scenario  by  F.  McGrew 
Willie  and  Walter  l)e  Unn.     Directed  by  A.  Leslie 

Gertrude  Lennox.  Laura  La  Plante; 
Philip  Ijyrd.  Lew  Cody;  Doru  Bellamy.  Joan  Marsh; 
Hartey  l^nnox.  Harry  Myers;  Victor  Staunton,  Claud 
Allister; Gregory  Brown,  William  Janney;  Alice,  Ail.-m 
Carry le;  Williams,  Edgar  Norton;  Ma&gie,  Aggie  Her- 
ring. 

'•NEVER  THE  TWAIN'  SHALL  MEET"— M-G- 

M.     -From  the  story  by  Peter  B.  Kyne.     Directed  by 

w.  s.  Van  Dyke.     Tin-  cast:  Pan.  Leslie  Howard; 

Tamea.  Conchila  Montenegro;  Mr.  Pritchard.  ('.  Au- 
brey Smith;  Maisit,  Karen  Morley;  Iuirrieau.  Mitchell 
Lewis;  Mellenger.  Hale  Hamilton;  Porter.  Clydi   • 
Tolongo,    Bob    Gilbert;    Julia,    Joan    Standing;    Mr  . 

.    Elllalie   J. ■: 


Statement  of  the  Ownership,  Management,  Circulation,  etc.,  Required  by 
the  Act  of  Congress  of  August  24,  1912, 

of  Photoplay  Magazine  Published  Monthly  at  Chicago,  Illinois,  for  April  1,  1931 

State  of  lllin.' 
fount  y  of  I 

Before  m-'.  .1  Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  and  county  aforesaid,  penonally  appeared  Kathryn  Dougherty. 
who.  having  been  dulv  sworn  acconKna  to  jaw.  deposes  and  -^.i\^  thai  she  is  the  boauieai  manaaet  of  ttn-  I'h..-. 
M      i.itii-.  .iii.l  that  the  lollowiriK  is.  to  tin-  in-st  oi  lu-r  knowledge  and  lielief.  a  true  statement  ol  the  ownership,  nan- 
agemenl     and  ii  ■  daily  paper,  the  circulation),  etc..  ol  tin-  aforesaid  publication  for  the  *iate  shown  in  the 

■  11.  require. 1  by  the  Acl  of  Aagnat  2-\.  1912.  enilxKlieil  in  section  411.  Postal  I  swi  -in.] 
the  revel sc  of  this  form,  to  wit:  1     That  t hi-  nanus  ami  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  editor,  and  bu*i- 

umagersare:  Pnbllsher.  Photoplay  f^blisMngCo..  919 N    MlchiBsn  ^  tor.  James  R    ■ 

"1°  N     Mlchlgsn  Ave.,  Chicago,   Ml      Managing  Editor,   None       Business   Manager,   Kathryn   Dougherty,  ''l'J  \ 
tan  A ve.,  Chicago.  III.    2    That  the  owner  u:    If  owned  by  a  corporation,  ita  name  and  addn  -tatcd 

and  also  Inunediately  thereunder  the  names  and  addresses  of  stockholders  owning  or  hoiiiinc  one  i«-r  cent 
total  amount  of  stock.      If  not  owned  by  a  corporation,  the  nanus  and  addresses  of  the  individual  owners  n 
Kl\en.      If  owned  hy  a  tirm.  company,  or  Other  unincorporated  concern-.  il>  n.iiue  an.!  I 

individual  member,  must  be  given.)     Photoplsj   Publiahing  Compan  M    Colvin.  <  hi 

111  .  R  M  Eastman.  Chicago,  III  .  .1  R  Quirk,  Chicago,  HI  .  Kathryn  Dougherty,  Chicago.  III. ;  Jay  A  (  oivin.  (  : 
ILL  3  That  the  known  bondholders,  mortgagees  and  other  security  holders  owning  or  hohhne  1  per  cent  or  a 
total   amount    of   bonds,    mortgages,  or  other   securities  are:    ilf   there  are   none  None        I      I 

paragraphs  next  above,  giving  the  names  of  the  owners,  stockholders,  and  security  holders,  if  any,  contain  not  only 
the  list  of  stockholders  and  security  holders  as  they  appear  uix>n  the  books  of  the  company  hut  also.  In 
the  stockholder   or  security  holder  appears  upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustee  or  in  any  other  fiduciary  n 
the  name  ol   the  person  or  corporation  for  whom  such  trustee  is  acting    I  ■  that   the  said   two 

contain  statements  embracing  affiant's  full  knowledge  and  twlief  as  to  th.-  arenjastaaces  and  ...n.iiri.  n<  under  which 
stockholder!  and  security  holders  who  do  not  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  trustees,  bol< 

ties  in  a  Capacity  other  t  hall  that  of  a  liena  tide  owner:  and  this  affinal    has  no  reason  to  beUeve  that   any  other   p 

association,  or  corporation  has  any  interest  direct  or  Indirect  in  tin  Ixinils.  01  other  securitk 

stated  by  her       5.    That  the  average  number  of  copies  of  each  issue  of  this  publication  sold  or  distributed  through  the 

mails  or  otherwise,  to  paid  subscribers  during  the  six  months  preceding  the  date  shown  above  i-  Ii  1    i 

tion  is  re-quired  from  daily  publications  only.) 

KATHRYN   DOUGHERTY, 

.nature  of  Business  Manager.) 
Sworn  to  and  subsenbed  before  mc  this  .itst  day  of  March.  19jT. 
I  SEAL]  M     )\  ll  v\   IfcEVU  I  V. 

Mv  commission  expires  January'  20 


Yours 

Instantly 


HOW  uninteresting  is  dull,  lifeless  hair.  How 
old  it  makes  one  look.  Surely  women  will  wel- 
come a  safe  way  to  youihily  and  beautify  the  hair. 
Within  20  minutes  Boyer's  Hair  Waving  &  Curl- 
ing Fluid  transforms  your  hair  into  soft,  becoming 
waves  ...  it  imparts  a  glinting  lustre  .  .  .  the  hair 
color  appears  livelier  .  .  .  your  hair  truly  becomes 
your  crown  of  beauty. 

You  will  be  surprised  that  you 
can  so  beautifully  wave  your 
hair  at  home.  And  the  ccw  is  so 
ttle.  Boyer's  is  absolutely  safe 
to  use.  It  never  becomes  rancid 
or  sour,  nor  can  it  stain  the  hair 
or  towels.  There  is  no  llaky 
residue,  no  dust  or  film.  The 
h.or  dries  quickly  and  the  waves 
are  deep  and  lasting. 

II  your  druggist  cannot  supply  you. 
*end50ctoDepi.  B.  2700 S.  Wabash 
Avenue.  Chicago,  lor  s  tmuvt 
bottle.    Guaranteed  lo  please  iou. 


BOYEK 

~)fie  Sooceiu  tfaJifusneAMi 

tya/uA.  CAuxvoo 


fflcn 

IMITATED 

but  never 

DUPLICATED 

YOU  find  Katherinc  Mc- 
Donald's Lash  Cc 
as  used  by  the  stars  of  Holly 

wood  gives  no  hint  of  artificiality,  for  it  leaves  your  lashct 
soft  and  silky,  yet  is  positively  waterproof  Cry,  swim, 
get  soaked  in  the  rain.  .  .  no  water  can  make  it  streak 
or  run.  Contains  no  varnish,  so  cannot  take  or  break 
your  lashes.   Easily  removed  with  cold  cream. 

Efforts  have  been  made  to  copy  this  wonderful  liquid 
mascara  but  without  succesa  Handy  purse  sue  gold 
capped  bottle,  black  or  brown.  Si. 


IKaATIHEIRHNE  MUcDONALD'S 
LASH 
COSMETIC 


V 

T 

{Catherine  MacDonald.  Holly  wr 


AAAAAAAAAA 


orioles 


ft,  „..._ 

^^^r^saf   I     C^V  -^  mmP'e.   *nfe    home  treat- 

I         ^7"**~~    v#  rnent— 16  years'  success  in  my 

/         r-s     V-"*    f  prsctiee.      Moles    (also    Big 

^J  \-j,   j  Growths)   dry   up  and   drop 

unm  tm    '  •  off.     Write  for  free  Booklet. 

WM.  DAVIS.  M.  D,  i:i-0  Grove  Ave,  Woodbridge.  H.  J. 


l5l 


Photoplay  Macazine  for  June,  1931 


AN         ADDRESS         OF         DISTINCTION" 


1 1 . ■ .  ■  •  ■  •  ■  mill 

,._  hiiiiiiiiiiin  dun 
■•<• ii 

.■tin ..    I!i!!!i!         !£••  •> •  ■• 
•  •••  •• 


The  Name  . .  .  Drake  . . .  has  become 

a  veritable  synonym  for  .  .  .  comfort" 

—  Meredith  Nicholson 

The  Drake  is  dedicated  to  .  .  .  Comfort.  Services  without  end 
alertly  attend  your  wants  with  ease  and  dispatch.  Living  quarters 
are  generously  proportioned.  Furnishings  are  obviously  selected 
with  care.  The  Drake  menus  are  such  as  are  attempted  only  by 
chefs  of  unusual  skill.  Plainly  you  will  see  . .  .  why  travelers  of 
note  are  inspired  to  speak  of  The  Drake  in  terms  of. .  .Comfort. 


> 


We 

DRAKE 

Hotel    -.    Chicago 


RATES  BEGIN  AT  S5.00  PER  DAY  FOR  SINGLE  ROOM  WITH  BATH     J 


A 

Hospitals  by  disabled  ex-serv- 
ice men  patients. 

All  proceeds  of  .the  Sale  are 
used  for  relief  and  welfare 
work  among  needy  veterans 
and  their  families,  including 
an  allotment  to  the  Veterans 
of  Foreign  Wars  National 
Home  for  Widows  and  Or- 
phans of  Ex-Service  Men. 

VETERANS  OF  FOREIGN  WARS  OF  U.  S. 
A  unit a  I  Sale 


i 


Veterans 

of 

oreign  Wars 

OF    THE 

nited  States 


"And  would  it   not   be  proud   romance 

Falling  in  some  obscure  advance, 
To  rise,  a  poppy  field  of  France/" 


Wear  a  Buddy  Poppy 

on 

Memorial  Day 


LL    Buddy    Poppies    are 
made  in  U.  S.  Veterans 


"PARTY  HUSBAND'  —First  National.— From 
the  novel  by  Geoffrey  Barnes.  Adaoted  by  Charles 
Kenyon.  Directed  by  Clarence  Badger.  The  cast: 
Laura,  Dorothy  Mackaill;  Jay  Hogarth.  James  R-nnie; 
Kale.  Dorothv  Peterson;  Henri  Renard.  Paul  Porcasi; 
Mrs.  Duell.  Helen  Ware;  Horace  I'urcell.  Don  Cook; 
Bee  Cavfield,  Mary  D>ran;  I'al.  Joe  Donahue;  Sally, 
Barbara  Weeks;  Ben  Holliday,  Gilbert  Emery. 

"PUBLIC  ENEMY.  THE"— Warners.— From 
the  story  by  Kubec  Glasmon  and  John  Bright. 
Adapted  by  Harvey  Thew.  Directed  b\  William  A. 
Wcllman.  The  cast:  Mall.  Edward  W<x>ds;  Tom. 
James  Cagney;  Mike.  Donald  Cook;  Mamie.  Joan 
Hlondell;  Ir.ten  .Mien.  Jean  Harlow;  Tom's  mother. 
Beryl  Mercer:  Bugs  Moran.  Ben  Hendricks.  Jr.; 
Paddy  Ryan,  Robert  Emmett  O'Connor;  Nails  Na- 
than.  Leslie  Fenton;  Bess.  Louise  Brooks;  Putt:. 
Murray  Kinncll;  Kitty.  Mae  Clark. 

"QUICK  MILLIONS  "—Fox.— From  the  story  by 
Courtenay  Terrett  and  Rowland  Brown.  Directed  by 
Rowland  Brown.  The  cast :  Bugs  Raymond.  Sp 
Tracy;  Dorothy  Stone.  Marguerite  Churchill;  Daisy 
De  Lisle.  Sally  Filers;  Arkansas  Smith.  Robert  Burns; 
Kenneth  Stone.  John  Wray;  Sails  Markey,  Warner 
Richmond:  Jimmy  Kirk.  George  Raft. 

"SECRET  SIX.  THE '-M-G-M.— From  the  sce- 
nario by  Frances  Marion.  Directed  by  George  Hill. 
The  cast:  Scorpio.  Wallace  Beery;  Newton,  Lewis 
Stone;  Hank.  John  Mack  Brown:  Anne.  Jean  Harlow; 
Peaches.  Marjorie  Rambeau;  Mizoski.  the  Couger, 
Paul  Hurst;  Carl.  Clark  Gable;  Johnny  Franks.  Ralph 
Bellamy;  Colimo.  John  Miljan;  Donlin.  DeWitt  Jen- 
nings; Melz,  Murray  Kinnell;  Delano.  Fletcher  Nor- 
ton; Bddie.  Louis  Natheaux;  Judge.  Frank  McGlynn; 
District  Attorney.  Theodore  Von  Eltz. 

"SEED" — Universal. — From  the  novel  by 
Charles  G.  Norris.  Adapted  by  Gladys  Lehman.  Di- 
rected by  John  M.  Stahl.  The  cast:  Bart  Carter.  John 
Boles;  Mildred.  Genevieve  Tobin;  Peggy  Carter.  Lois 
Wilson;  Jennie,  ZaSu  Pitts;  Bliss,  Richard  Tucker; 
Bob,  Jed  Prouty.  The  Children:  Junior  Carter,  Ken- 
neth Seiling;  Dicky  Carter,  Don  Cox;  Danny  Carter, 
Ten-y  Cox;  Margaret  Carter,  Helen  Parrish;  Johnny 
Carter.  Dickie  Moore.  Ten  years  later:  Junior  Carter. 
Raymond  Hackett;  Dicky  Carter,  Jack  Willis;  Danny 
Carter.  Bill  Willis;  Margaret  Carter,  Bette  Davis; 
Johnny  Carter,  Dick  Winslow;  Nancy,  Frances  Dade. 

"SHIPMATES"— M-G-M.— From  the  story 
"Maskee"  by  Ernest  Paynter.  Adapted  by  Lou  Edel- 
man  and  Delmer  Daves.  Directed  by  Harry  Pollard. 
The  cast:  Jonesy,  Robert  Montgomery;  Scolty,  Ernest 
Torrence;  Kit.  Dorothy  Jordan;  Admiral  Corbin.  Ho- 
bart  Bosworth;  Bilge.  Cliff  Edwards;  Mike.  Gavin 
Gordon;  Mary  Lou,  Joan  Marsh;  What-Ho.  Edward 
Nugent;  Wong,  E.  Allyn  Warren;  Captain  Beatty, 
George  Irving;  Auntie,  Hedda  Hopper;  Admiral 
Schuyler,  William  Worthington. 


"SVENGALJ." — Warners. — From  the  novel  by 
George  Louis  Du  Maurler.  Adapted  by  J.  Grubb 
Alexander.  Directed  by  Archie  Mayo.  The  cast: 
Srengali,  John  Barrymore;  Trilhy.  Marian  Marsh; 
Little  Billee.  Bramwell  Fletcher;  Honori.  Carmel  My- 
ers; Taffy,  Lumsden  Hare;  The  Laird.  Donald  Crisp; 
Gecko,  Louis  Alberni;  Concert  Manager,  Paul  Porcasi. 

"TARNISHED  LADY"— PARAMOUNT. — From  the 
story  by  Donald  Ogden  Stewart.  Directed  by  George 
Cukor.  The  cast:  Nancy  Courtney.  Tallulah  Bank- 
head;  Xorman  Cravalh,  Clive  Brook;  Germaine  Pren- 
tiss. Phoebe  Foster;  De  Will  Taylor.  Alexander  Kirk- 
land;  Ben  Sterner,  Osgood  Perkins;  Mrs.  Courtney, 
Elizabeth  Patterson. 


"TOO  MANY  COOKS"— Radio  Picttres.— From 
the  stage  play  by  Frank  Craven.  Scenario  by  Jane 
Murfin.  Directed  by  William  Seiter.  The  cast:  Al 
Bennett,  Bert  Wheeler;  Alice  Cook.  Dorothy  Lee;  FJla 
Mayer,  Sharon  Lynn;  Wilson.  Rose  e  Atesj  L'ncle 
George,  Robert  McWade;  Frank  Andrews.  Hallam 
Cooley;  Mrs.  Cook.  Florence  Roberts;  Mr.  Cook, 
Clifford  Dempsey;  Cousin  Ned,  George  Chandler. 

"TRAPPED  "— Big  Fovr.— From  the  story  by 
Jackson  Parks  and  Editli  Brown.  Adapted  by  Jack- 
son Parks  and  Edith  Brown.  Directed  by  Bruc^ 
Mitchell.  The  cast:  Jerry  Coleman.  Nick  Stuart; 
Sally  Moore.  Nena  Quartaro;  Bettina  Moore.  Priscilla 
Dean;  Captain  Baxter.  Tern  Santschi;  Jim  Moore. 
George  Regas;  Joe  Farley.  Tom  O'Brien;  Fer 
limmv  Aubrey;  Tiger  Callahan,  Reed  Howes;  Lena, 
Patsy  Daly. 

"VIRTUOUS  HUSBAND.  THE"— Universal.— 
From  the  play  "Apron  Strings''  by  Dorrancc  Davis. 
Scenario  by  Dale  Van  Every.  Directed  by  Vin 
Moore.  The  cast:  Daniel  Curtis.  Elliott  Nugent; 
Barbara  01-j.cll,  Jean  Arthur;  Inez  Wakefield.  Betty 
Compson;  Mr.  OlwelL  J.  C.  Nugent:  Mrs.  Ohcell. 
Allison  Skipworth;  Ezra  Hunni-xell.  Tully  Marshall; 
Peters     "Sleep  and  Eat";  Hester,  Eva  McKenzie. 

"WOMEN  BETWEEN.  THE"— Radio  Pictires. 
— From  the  play  by  Irving  Kay  Davis.  Adapted  by 
Howard  Estabrook.  Directed  by  Victor  Schertzinger. 
The  cast:  Madame  Julie.  Lily  Damita;  John  Whit- 
comb.  O.  P.  Hegsje;  Victor  Whitcomh.  Lester  Vail; 
Doris  Whitcomh.  Miriam  Seeqar;  Helen  Weston.  Anita 
Louise:  Mrs.  Black.  Ruth  Weston:  Barton.  Halliwell 
Hobbes;  Buddy.  Lincoln  Stedman;  Mrs.  Weston, 
Blanche  Frederici. 


PhOTOW  w   M  IGAZXNl   ros  Juni      1'     ' 


51 


ion 


of  th< 


of 
the 


Photoplay 


"Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  represents  the  very  Fin- 
est collection  of  beautiful  art  portraits  of  screen 
celebrities    ever   assembled    under    one    cover. 

250  Reproductions  in  Rotogravure  of  the  Stars,  and  the 
facts  you  want  to  know  about  them 

DO  YOU  KNOW? 


Which  feminir  -iarried  millionaires — 

which  ones  foreign 

The  color  of  Claudetle  Collvrt's  hair? 

The  name  of  the  picture  that  mjje  Clara  Bow? 

How  much  Loretta  Young  weigh*1 

Where  Chevalier  WM  during  the  World  War? 

That  Raquel  Torres'  type  is  unique  on  th 

What  occupation  engages  Robert    v  ' 
leisure  hours? 

n  Laurel  came  to  America  as  understudy 
bulk  Cbaplin  in  >  stage  skit? 
a  once  engaged  to  the  grandson    of  the 
■ 
The  name  of  Irene  Rich'i  husband? 


Why  Will  K.  g.  r>  became  a  vrecn  actor? 

Which  dramatic  school  Buddy  Rogers  attended? 

The  real  name  of  Lew  <x>dy? 

What  star  weighs  exactly  one  hundred  p< 

How  many  times  Alma  Rubens  has  been  married? 

How  the  talkie-  (-.nee? 

When  Betv  I1 

How  ol„ 

Whether  Jeanette  MacDonald  has  ever  married? 

How  Jack  Oakic  got  his  start? 

Gilbert  Roland's  natio- 

Which  fair-haired  star  was  disowned  by  her  father? 

That  Buster  Keaton  was  born  in  a  tent? 


The  answers  to  these — and  hundreds  of  other  questions — just 
the  information  that  you  and  your  friends  want  c.m  he  found  in 
"Stars  of  the  Photoplay." 

Sire  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay."  7'i  x  10H  inches;  individual 
portraits,  5H  x  7H  inches.  A  biographical  sketch  accompanies 
each  portrait. 

You  can  obtain  this  remarkable  book  with  an  18  months  subscrip- 
tion  to  Photoplay  Magazine  for  only  $4.00.  "Stars  of  the  Photo- 
play"  sells  regularly  for  $1.25;  an  18  months  subscription  to  Photo- 
play $3.75.  The  regular  price  of  the  two  combined  is  $5.00.  You 
will,  therefore,  save  $1  00  by  taking  advantage  of  this  unusual  offer. 
We  recommend  the  combination  offer,  but  it  you  want  only  "Stirs 
ot  the  PhotopL.y."  lust  send  $1.25. 

This  combination  offer  is  an  ideal  Birthday  gift.  If  it  is  to  be 
sent  as  a  gift,  insert  the  name  of  the  person  to  whom  you  wish  it 
to  go,  on  the  coupon,  and  your  own  name  on  the  extra  line  at  the 
bottom  provided  for  this  purpose,  also  state  date  of  birthday,  and  a 
proper  notification  will  be  sent  to  the  recipient. 


Photoplay  Magazine  {Stars  of  the  Photoplay] 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave,  Chicago,  111. 


PH.  6-31 


Enclosed  please  fin  J  $ □  check     □  money  order     Ocasb,  for  which  «end  me 

□  The  New  IX-  Line  Edition  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  and  enter  my  subscription  to  Pbotoh  • 
line  for  18  months  effective  with  the  next  issue. 

(Special  Rate:  $4.00  U.  S.  and  possessions,   $4.50  Canada;   $5.00  Foreign.) 

□  The  New  Dc  Luie  Edition  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay" — now  only  Si  .25 


\jm( 

Street 

City State 

Ci/r/rom  [rume] _, Birthday. 


Q  t  u  d  i  oJBa  m.  h  1  e  s 


IT  appears  that  Nancy 
Carroll's  art  may  not  be  so 
much  histrionic  as  gastro- 
nomic. In  the  New  York  Par- 
amount Studio  lunchroom  she 
ordered  a  glass  of  water.  Noth- 
ing else.  "Nancy  can't  eat  to- 
day," someone  at  our  table  in- 
formed us.  "She's  full  of 
bologny." 

"You're  not  only  disrespect- 
ful, but  extremely  slangy,  young 
man,"  mockingly  chided  an  assistant  to  an  assistant  director. 

"Not  at  all,"  young  man  answered.  "It's  true.  She's  been 
eating  it  all  morning." 

Then  it  was  explained.  Nancy's  role  in  "Night  Angel" 
(first  titled  "Between  Two  Worlds,"  then  changed  to  "The 
Scarlet  Hour,"  next  to  be  called  Heaven  Knows  What!)  calls 
for  a  scene  in  which  Nancy  diligently  chews  on  good,  old- 
fashioned  bologny  sausage.  They  had  been  rehearsing  all 
morning,  and  Director  Edmund  Goulding  insisted  that  Nancy 
take  rehearsals,  and  the  bologny,  seriously. 


It's  a  gag !  The  "Rebound"  company  got  a  little  tired 
of  hard  work  and  no  play,  so  just  for  fun  they  got  out  the 
dictionaries,  encyclopedias  and  telephone  books  in  an 
effort  to  shed  light  on  a  momentous  question — "Should 
'Rebound'  be  emphasized  on  the  first  or  last  syllable, 
and  why  is  the  Fourth  of  July?"  Director  E.  H. 
Griffith  seems  to  have  the  right  answer,  while  Ina 
Claire,  Robert  Ames,  Myrna  Loy,  Leigh  Allen,  Robert 
Williams,  and  Hedda  Hopper  exclaim  over  his  wisdom. 
Now,  get  out   your  dictionary,  if  you  care 


THE  scene,  laid  in  "The  Duck,"  a  disreputable  cafe  in  a 
foreign  city,  called  for  dozens  of  extra  players  who  sat  at 
the  little  tables  drinking — what?  Well,  something  that's  brown 
and  has  lovely  white  foam  on  top. 

Realism  or  no  realism,  they  had  to  be  satisfied  with  one-half 
of  one  per  cent. 

And  even  then,  the  extras  drank  so  much  that  the  property 
men  had  to  pour  it  all  out  in  a  hurry,  and  let  it  stand  until  it 
was  too  warm  and  flat  even  for  an  extra  man's  thirst.  Other- 
wise, there  would  have  been  no  necessary  ambei  liquid  in  the 
huge  glasses,  no  lovely  white  foam  to 
make  the  picture  look  real.  T>  J?  Kith 

Back  on  the  set  we  look  aroimd,  rub        ■*-*  j      L     r   U  ft  v  C  3     1\  f  J  ff 

152 


our  eyes  and  look  again,  relieved 
to  find  it's  just  doubles  we're 
seeing,  not  double.  In  one  cor- 
ner May  Slattery  and  Wesley 
Stark,  stand-ins  respectively  for 
Nancy  Carroll  and  Fredric 
March,  chat  quietly.  May  has 
Nancy's  red  hair  and  looks  ab- 
surdly like  her.  Wesley  is  tall, 
slender  and  dark  like  Fred. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  set, 

Nancy  and   Fredric  themselves 

are    conversing,    going   over   lines    and    business.     The    two 

couples  stand  in  almost  the  same  positions  for  a  moment,  and 

the  effect  is  startling. 

WE'RE  off  to  Hollywood,  to  the  Radio  Pictures  lot, 
where  Richard  Dix  is  starring  in  "Young  Donovan's 
Kid."  The  court  is  trying  to  take  little  brother  Jackie  Cooper 
from  big  brother  Richard.  (You  remember  Jackie  as  Skippy — 
who  could  forget  him?  You'll  find  a  grand  story  about  the  mak- 
ing of  that  picture  right  in  this  issue.)  The  judge  orders  the 
officers  to  remove  Jackie.  He  throws  himself  into  Dix's  arms, 
kicking  and  screaming. 

"Please  don't  let  them  take  me,"  he  wails.     His  tears  flow 
freely. 

Sympathetic  tears  come  to  the  eyes  of  the  watchers. 
The  scene  is  finished.  "  Now,  Jackie,  we're  just  going  to  walk 
through  this  one,  for  the  camera.    No  action."    It's  Director 
Fred  Niblo  speaking. 

Jackie  does  it  again — as  unconcernedly  as  though  he  were 
reciting  his  alphabet.    No  tears,  no  emotion. 

"All  right.    Action  this  time,"  instructs  Mr.  Niblo. 

Jackie's  tears  pour  out,  trickle  down 
Dix's  coat  as  Jackie  clings  to  him. 
He's  a  Director's  Delight,  that  boy! 


"M 


^'/%  «*iiiiiiii«i»i    «ivt«i>    Irom 


in  Error* 


i»lil     llii-     flol. 


iio    girl 


I  III*       x.lllll-       «   |ll<\ ••«-«    ■  «-l 


■        l«'. II    114-41        ll    4IIII 


7"»       «' 


>£■•*• 


If  you  spent  ■  Bummer  out  on 
a  ranch  with  no  mirron  to  till 
you  what  was  happening  t<> 
your  sens  it  ive  complexion, 
wouldn't  you  be  happy  if  you 
went  back  to  town  and  your 
friends  all  began  admiring 
your  lovely  akin? 

That's  exactly  what  hap- 
pened to  this  Colorado  girl. 
Hut  let  her  tell  the  story  as 
she  told  it  to  me  in  a  letter: 

"My  1» si  friend,  Dot,  who 
■  !"<•>  have  the  Inn  lust  skin, 
told  me  she  never  used  any- 
thing bul  Camay.  Hut  I 
wouldn't  risk  it.  I'd  always 
had  such  a  silly  skin-  hadn't 
touched  my  face  with  soap  for 
years.  I  always  had  a  slightly 
greasy  look  and  I  never  felt 
really  clean.  l>ut  I  thought 
thai  was betterthan  blotches." 

Lasl  summer  this  tiirl  went 
to  her  brother's  ranch.  She 
saj  -  that  at  the  end  of  a  day's 
riding  her  face  used  to  be 
covered  a ith  dust. 

She  found  that  u-i nvr  cold 
<ream  was  like  rubbing  sand 

into    her    skin.    "So,"    as    she 

writes,  "I  took  courage  and 
made  a  fine  lather  of  Dot's 
favorite  Camay.  It  felt  so 
good  to  be  dean  that  I  rubbed 

it  in  well  and  then  rinsed  and 
rinsed  with  clear  warm  water. 
"We  spend  no  time  at  mir- 
rors on  the  ranch,  so  I  took 
little  notice  of  my  face. 

"When    I    came   hack   to 


town,  my  friends  began  to  call 

attention  to  my  lovely  skin. 
I  was  so  puzzled  that  one  dav 
1  took  a  hand-mirror  ami 
studied    my    face    carefully." 

My  correspondent  writes  she 
was  amazed  at  w hat  she  s-iw . 

Her  skin  was  clear  and  creamy. 
Ami  it  seemed  to  have  that 
underneath  cleanliness  she  had 

ad  mi  red  so  much  in  her  friend's 
complexion. 
Of  course,  there's  every  good 

scientific  reason  why  Camay 
was  gentle  enough  for  this 
Colorado  girl's  sensitive  skin. 
The  73  eminent  dermatol- 
ogists who  examined  an  an- 
alysis   of    Camay's    formula 

and  made  careful  tests  of 
( 'amav's  effect  on  all  t  he  vari- 
ous types  of  skin,  gave  ( lamay 
their  unanimous  approval  as 

an  unusually  mild  complex- 
ion   soap,    gentle   enough    for 

even  the  moat  delicate  com- 
jjlexiont. 

Doesn't  that  wonderful  ap- 
proval make  you  realize  that 
Camay  is  simply  the  best 
complexion  soap  there  is? 

IcUw  (ML**- 

I'lici"  Your  Worltl  willi 
i.o\  ellmeaa  is  a  free  booklet 

With  Bdvk*  about  skin  care  from 
?:'.  leading  American  dermatol- 
ogists. Write  to  Helen  Chase, 
Dept.  YV-01,  509  Fifth  Avenue, 

New  York  City. 

C  1931.  P.  4iG.Ce. 


Z(i^ 


Camay    li.is     i»«-«-n     I.  s(e«i     I     apa 

|»l  'OV«Ml  !»-»  71         fill  III  fill         Sl  4-  I'M  I. I  I  41  It  »- 

gist*  —  no     oilier    tomple\ion    «oiip 
«»vor    li.iti    sm  ii     Mifiii4.il    approMil. 


Whal  is  a  ili-iiiiiiiolonisi  ? 
The  title  of  derma  t  nli  >uis<  properly 
belongs  « i 1 1 1 >  to  registered  phy- 
sicians who  have  been  Licensed  to 
practice  medicine  ami  who  have 
adopted  the  science  of  dermatol- 
ogy the  rare  of  the  skim  as  their 
special  province 

The  reputable  physician  is  the 
only  reliable  authority  for  scien- 
tific advice   upon    the  care  ami 

treatment  of  the  skin 

I  have  puauuall]  examined  the 
signed  comments  from  73  leading 
dermatologists    of    America    who 


have    approved    the    comp 
BDd    cleansing    action    of    I 
Soap.      I    Certify    not    onl\    to    the 
hik'h  standing  of  these  ph>  sni.ins. 

imt    also    to    their    approval    as 
statist  m  tins  advertisement. 


HP- 
IT 


M.  D, 

(The  7S  leading  dermalol.  . 

proved    t'.'im.iy    werf    '- 

Pusey  «ho.  Ear   PI  ye.ir.,  ha*  been  the 

editor  of  the  official  journal  of  American 

dermatology.) 


CAMAY      [<  AI.LED      CAI.AY      IN      CAXADAJ      IN      A      l»  It  O I  T  B II      A      OAMBIE      SOAP— IOC      A      CAKE 


PRICES  IN  CHINA 
Service  for  8(67  Pieces)  $69.50 
Dinner  Plates  -  $9.00  Set  of  Six 

PRICES  IN  SILVERWARE 
Service  for  8  -  $48.00  Complete 
Service  for  6  -$36.50  Complere 
Teaspoons  $4.00  Set  of  Six 

All  Community  Designs  are  Open  Slock 


*, 


ANNOUNCING 


COMMUNITY 

CHINA 

By  the  makers  of  COMMUNITY   PLATE 


THE  QloUesse  DESIGN    IN   CHINA  AND   SILVERWARE 


The  smart  trend  in  the  appointment  of  the  tahle  comes  to  a  delightful 
new  fulfillment  with  China  to  harmonize  with  the  Silverware.  Today 
the  hostess  may  set  her  table  to  the  key  of  a  supremely  lovely  Com- 
munity design.  The  distinguished  beauty  of  the  *7 lublcsse,  the  LL'eaitville, 
the Qrosvenor,  in  her  COMMUN  ITY  PLATE,  is  re-interpreted  to  a  perfect 
harmony  in  an  exquisite  service  of  translucent  COMMUNITY  CHINA. 


. 


f,<^Pte* 


COMMUNITY  PLATE 


LEADERSHIP  IN   DESIGN  AUTHORITY 


