ihili; 


Hit 


IMHI 


wSSSimw 

•  V  ■'''••'■■   ■ 
■■:•■■■■' 

PHI 


Aft 


EliUM 


JinPIH&l 
IMnP 


I 


99 


UHJ 


jBRARY 

'  >dern  Art 


Scanned  from  the  collection  of 

The  Museum  of  Modern  Art  Library 


Coordinated  by  the 

Media  History  Digital  Library 
www.mediahistoryproject.org 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2012  with  funding  from 

Media  History  Digital  Library 


http://archive.org/details/photo41chic 


JULY 
25  CENTS 


CLAUDETTE 
COLBERT 


I 


imazing 
Bennett 
Girl 


The  Age  of  Feai 
In    Hollywood 


wyvP^  with    the     new  D 

EVENING    GOWN    BACKS 


I 


The  new  "Surf  Suits"  by  B.V.D. — have 
you  seen  them? 

We  didn't  want  them  to  be  like  any 
other  swimming  suits  ever  made!  So — as 
thoughtfully,  as  brilliantly  as  a  Paris 
couturier  designs  a  dazzling  new  style  in 
gowns,  we  made  plans  for  the  new 
"Surf  Suits!" 

For  months  there  were  long  consulta- 
tions with  artists,  with  stylists.  And 
then  we  consulted  with  swimming  ex- 
perts, including  the  famous  Johnny 
Weissmuller,  a  champion  among  cham- 
pions. 

"It's  never  been  done  before,"  said  one 
well-known  stylist.  "Give  them  backs 
like  the  loveliest  of  the  new  evening 
frocks!" 


"And  the  new  high  waistline!"  said 
another.  "Make  them  up  in  the  smartest 
colors  ever  seen  in  any  waters,  salt  or 
fresh,"  suggested  an  enthusiastic  artist. 
And  he  selected  the  colors! 

"They  must  give  women  perfect  play 
of  the  swimming  muscles,"  said  Johnny 
Weissmuller.  "Here  are  points  about 
fit..." 

After  months  of  designing  and  re-design- 
ing and  designing  again,  they  were 

BVD 


REG.    U.    S.    PAT.    OFF. 


ready — the  new  "Surf  Suits"  .  .  .  with 
the  backs  and  high  waistline  of  the 
loveliest  of  the  new  evening  gowns  .  .  . 
in  colors  to  charm  the  most  critical  or 
the  most  gay.  And  when  we  showed 
them  to  women  who  during  months  of 
each  year  frequent  the  beaches  at  South- 
ampton and  Newport  and  Palm  Beach, 
approval  was  unanimous ! 

Do  go  in  and  see  the  new  "Surf  Suits" — 
by  B.V.D. !  Select  one  with  the  back 
which  most  closely  approaches  that  of 
your  favorite  couturier's  smartest  evening 
frocks.  And  then  swim  in  it !  Win  cham- 
pionships in  it,  if  you  will!  Or  merely 
stroll  along  the  sands  in  it — and  know 
that  you  look  your  most  charming!  The 
B.V.D.  Company,  Inc.,  New  York  City. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


A    YOUNG     MOTHER    .    .    HAS 
WORDS   WITH    HERSELF   ABOUT 

.  .pink  tooth   brush! 


"TJER  two  tiny  teeth  are  so  white  that 
-*-  A  they  fairly  sparkle!  I  suppose  mine 
looked  like  that  when  I  lay  in  a  bassinet.  Even 
two  years  ago  they  certainly  were  brighter 
than  they  are  today.  Why,  at  this  rate,  I'm 
afraid  that  by  the  time  she's  old  enough  to 
be  critical  of  her  mother's  looks,  she'll  never 
know  that  once  upon  a  time  people  had 
rather  nice  things  to  say  about  my  smile! 


"I  wonder  . .  that  'pink'  upon  my  tOOtfa  brush! 
What  does  it  have  to  do  with  my  teeth  look- 
ing cloudy  and  dim?  Why,  they're  as  dull  as 
a  blue  Monday.  And  my  gums  arc  so  touchy 
and  soft  that  they  can't  be  of  much  help  to 
my  teeth  !  I'm  going  to  try  massage.  I'm  go- 
ing to  get  Ipana  and  I'm  going  to  write  it 
now  upon  the  telephone  pad  —  we're  goingto 
see  about  this  'pink  tooth  brush'  business.'' 


IPANA  tooth 


DEFEATS  "PINK  TOOTH   BRUSH' 


paste 

BRINGS   BEAUTY  TO  THE   TEETH 


7  ivottd(  r  .  .  //ui/ 
'pink' on  my  tooth  brush, 
morningafter  morning  .  .  " 


A  glance  over  the  luncheon  table,  the  dinnei 
table,  and  you'll  notice  at  once  that  most  of 
our  modern  foods  are  soft  foods.  And  soft 
foods  certainly  give  our  gums  no  work  to  do 

Lacking  exercise  and  stimulation,  the  gums 
grow  more  laz\ ,  more  touchy  with  every  day. 
In  time  they  become  so  tender  that  "pink 
tooth  brush"  makes  its  appearance. 

And,  while  that  first  tinge  o(  "pink"  on 
your  brush  isn't  a  national  calamity,  don't 
ignore  its  warning.  For  it  often  opens  tlie 
way  to  many  gum  troubles — gingivitis,  Yin- 
cent's  disease  and  even  the  dread,  though 
much  rarer,  pyorrhea. 

Neglected  too  long,  "pink  tooth  brush" 
may  threaten  some  of  your  soundest  and 
whitest  teeth  through  infection  at  their  roots. 

Don't  tolerate  "pink  tooth  brush."  There's 
a  simple,  inexpensive  way  to  defeat  it.  Gel  a 
tube  of  Ipana  Tooth  Paste,  (lean  your  teeth 
with  it  regularly — it  is  a  marvelous  cleans*  I 
— and  then,  each  time  you  use  it,  put  some 
fresh  Ipana  on  your  brush  or  finger-tip  a.  I 
massage  it  into  those  touchy  gums  of  your  \. 

Twice  each  day. 

Within  a  few  days  your  teeth  will  regain 
a  sparkle  they  haven't  had  for  years.  And 
within  a  month,  your  gums  will  be  less  lazy 
and  far  firmer.  For  the  ziratol  in  Ipana  — 
plus  the  massage — tones  and  stimulates  the 
gums  back  to  healthy  hardness.  Keep  on 
using  Ipana  with  massage  — and  you'll  see 
mighty  little  of  "pink  tooth  brush." 

r  r  f 

BRISTOL-MYERS  ro..  Drpt.  [-71 
7  i  Weal  Street,  N<  ir  Yott,  N.  Y. 

kindly  send  mc  j  (rial  lube  of  IPANA  TOOTH 
PASTE.  Enclosed  if  i  two-cent  stamp  10  covet 
partly  the  <  ">t  '>!  P»t  ^i»g  »'»d  mailing. 

.Y.//«<* 

Slretl    

City StaU 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


Here  are  the  new 
motion  picture 

jayorttzd 


Your  Favorite  Stars 

HAROLD     LLOYD 
MARLENE    DIETRICH 


MAURICE  CHEVALIER 
GEORGE     BANCROFT 
MARX     BROTHERS 
RUTH    CHATTERTON 
GARY     COOPER 
NANCY     CAR  ROLL 
CLARA  BOW 
JACK  OAKIE 
RICHARD     ARLEN 
FREDRIC     MARCH 
CLAUDETTE  COLBERT 
CLIVE   BROOK 
CHARLES     ROGERS 
JACKIE     COOGAN 


Be  sure  to  see: 

Nancy  Carroll 

Frednc  March 


"The  Night  Angel 

Edmund  Gou/ding  Prod 

* 

"The  Vice  Squad" 

Paul  LuLas — Kay  Francis 


'Up  Pops  The  Devil" 

Norman  Foster,  Carole  Lombard 
Skeets  Gallagher,  Stuart  Erwin 


"The  Lawyer's  Secret' 

Clive  Brook,  Richard  Arlcn, 
Charles  Rogers,  Fay  Wray 


ROBERT 
COOGAN 


ARAMOUNT,  with  already  the  great- 
est stars  in  motion  pictures,  is  constantly 
enriching  the  screen  with  new  personalities. 
From  the  New  York  stage,  from  Hollywood, 
from    all    over  the   world   they   come!    At- 
tracted to  Paramount  for  the  opportunity  to 
play  in  some  of  the  world's  greatest  stories. 
Under  expert   showmen.    And   in  the  most 
lavish  productions.  Watch  for  these  new  fa- 
vorites in  current  Paramount  Pictures!  And 
in    Paramount's   greatest  triumph    .   .   .    the 
20th  Birthday  Jubilee  Program!    "If  it's  a 
Paramount  Picture  it's  the  best  show  in  town  ! ' ' 


(^paramount 

^"^  PARAMOUNT  PUBLIX  CORP  .   ADOLPH  ZUKOR.  PRES. 


Cparamojuil 


(pictured. 

^-^^  PARAMOUNT  BLDC  ,   N.  T. 


010 


The  World's  Leading  Motion   Picture   Publication 


Vol.  XL  No.  2 


JAMES   R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publisher 


July,  1931 


I 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  for 
the    best    picture   of   the    year 

1920  1923  1926 

"HUMOR-         "The  "BEAU 

ESQUE"    COVERED         GESTE" 
WAGON" 

1921  1924  1927 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 


1922 

1925 

1928 

ROBIN 

"THE  BIG 

"FOUR 

IOOD" 

PARADE" 

1929 

"DISRAELI" 

SONS" 

Information  and 
Service 

Hrickbats  and  Bouquets 

Friendly  Advice  on  Girls' 

Problems 


18 


Hollywood  Menus 85 

Questions  and  Answers       ...  9-t 

Addresses  of  the  Stars     ....  100 

Screen  Memories  from  Photoplay  10-2 

Casts  of  Current  Photoplays       .      .  130 


Higli-Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots Jambb  R.  Quibx  27 

Charlie  Has  to  Fight! i      fabdHall  90 

Clara's  Microphone  Fright          ....                      Ri  ra  Bikbt  SI 

How  to  Adapt  Screen  Modes  to  Fit  Your  Personality          LobShiblet  :52 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood     .         .                           .  'AH 

Seymour — Photoplay's  Style  Authority IS 

The  Prince  of  Fans Donovom  PKdbltt  47 

"Give  Arbuckle  a  Chance!" Jamb  R.  Quirk  57 

Hollywood's  Age  of  Fear Run  Bust  58 

See  Garbo  First Lbonabd  Ball  61 

$5,000  in  Prizes .62 

Bellamy,  Bronson,  Borden Kathebixe  Albert  70 

Last  Call  for  Your  Story .72 

Vote  Now! 7(i 

Yo!  Ho!  and  a  Bottle  of  Gin Don  Bebold  78 

Studio  Rambles FbancesKibh  188 

Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Cun cut   Pictures 8 

The  Shadow  Stage     ...                          .",() 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 98 

Personalities 

The  Girl  on  the  Cover 12 

"Sadder!  Miss  Lombard,  Sadder!" 29 

Norma  Shearer 37 

Jessica  and  Dick ! \ : 

J immy  from  the  "Jungle"            HabbtLang  H> 

Two  Girls  in  One!     ....                         60 

Those  Amazing  Bennett  Girls — and  Their  Pappy  .        .       HabrtLang  <>>> 

Four  Newcomers  Who  Are  on  the  Up  and  Up (is 


Short  Stories 


The  Other  Side  of  the  Sunrise 
Contact 


Dimi.  W  ii.ix.n      .'54 

(    II  Ml  IK-    I'll  \\<  1-  (i  ■>  S  t 


Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 

Editorial  Offices,  221  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City  Publishing  Office,  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

The  International  News  Company,  Ltd.,  DistributingAgents,  5  Bream's  Building,  London,  England 

James  R.  Quirk,  President  Robert  M.  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathryn  Dougherty,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba;  $3.00  Canada;  $3.50  for  foreign  countries.     Remittance)) 

should  he  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    Caution — Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24,  1912,  at  the  PostofTice  at  Chicago.  III.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3.  1879. 

Copyright,  1931,  by  the  Photoplay  PUBLISHING  COMPANY,  Chica  .o 


6 


Brickbats  &  Bouquets 


The  $25  Letter 

AS  a  nurse,  most  of  my  time  is  spent  in 
hospitals  or  sick  rooms.  My  ears  have 
become  attuned  to  the  moans,  sighs  and 
complaints  of  the  sick.  Is  it  any  wonder 
that  I  love  the  movies  with  their  beautiful 
people,  gay  songs  and  sophisticated  repar- 
tee? 

The  movies  make  me  forget  that  I'm  tired. 
I  forget  the  hospital — temperatures,  cold 
feet,  sick  people  and  everything  unpleasant. 
Nothing  matters  but  this  world  of  make- 
believe — this  house  of  cards  that  will  fall 
when  the  curtain  comes  down.  But  who 
cares?  The  movies  are  my  rose-colored 
glasses  and  I  love  them  and  am  thankful 
for  them. 

Miss  M.  O'Connor, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

The  $10  Letter 

HPHE   American   women   have  often   been 
*■  acclaimed  the  most  beautiful  in  the  world. 
I   feel   that  this  fact  is  due  largely  to  the 
influence    of    the    screen.      Visions    of    the 
lovely  actresses  reveal  to  the  feminine  fans 
the  charm  of  correct  clothing,   the  impor- 
tance of  dressing  to  type,  the  effect  of  good 
grooming  and  the  importance  of  a  pleasing 
personality  and  voice.     Age  no  longer  bars 
their  reign,  but  adds  grace  and  charm. 
Alice  Bishop, 
Denver,  Colo. 

The  $5  Letter 

T  WONDER  if  the  producers  are  fully 
*■  aware  of  the  fact  that  millions  of  chil- 
dren go  to  the  talkies.  I  have  two — a  boy 
nine  and  a  girl  fourteen — and  we're  going 
less  and  less  each  month,  thanks  to  the  sur- 
feit of  sex  and  smut,  which  is  so  hard  to 
escape.  Not  only  are  we  going  less  our- 
selves, but  we're  influencing  our  children's 
associates  also. 

C.  H.  Bishop, 
Park  Ridge,  111. 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Crit ics 

PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten  and  Five  Dollar  Prizes  for  the 

Best    Letters 


Just  plain  spiteful  letters  won't  be  printed,  for  we  want 
to  be  helpful  when  we  can.  Don't  write  more  than  200 
words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your  name 
and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't  write. 
Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  Photoplay,  221  West 
57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the  right 
to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations.  Come  on  in 
and  speak  your  mind! 


Gloria  Is  Grand 

"V\  THAT  a  truly  great  performance  Gloria 
v*  Swanson  gives  in  "Indiscreet."  They 
can  bring  on  their  Garbos  and  Dietrichs, 
but  to  me  Gloria  will  always  be  the  first 
lady  of  fiimdom. 

Malcolm  Richardson, 

Meridian,  Miss. 


GLORIA  SWANSON  wins  high  and 
generous  praise  from  our  corre- 
spondents this  month  for  bringing 
"Indiscreet"  to  a  public  ever  ready  for 
light-hearted  entertainment  of  this  kind 
and  fed  up  on  an  over-diet  of  crime  and 
crooks.  Ben  Lyon  skyrocketed  to  a  high 
place  in  the  fans'  esteem  for  his  charm 
and  good  looks  as  the  lead  in  this 
picture. 

Running  Gloria  a  close  second  was 
Norma  Shearer,  whose  many  fans  lived 
and  suffered  with  her  through  "Strangers 
May  Kiss" — a  tremendous  hit  at  the  box- 
office,  according  to  the  quantities  of  mail 
received.  Robert  Montgomery's  ever- 
increasing  public  voted  him  a  huge  suc- 
cess with  Shearer,  if  not  with  Garbo. 
They  are  strong  for  him  in  "Shipmates" 
— a  picture  which  was  well  liked. 

Tallulah  Bank  head  has  been  approved 
of  and  compared,  in  innumerable  in- 
stances, to  Dietrich.  The  fans  liked  her 
personally  in  "Tarnished  Lady,"  even  if 
they  did  not  rave  about  the  picture. 

Marion  Davies'  "It's  a  Wise  Child" 
placed  her  way  up  at  the  top  of  the  class 
as  a  comedienne  of  the  first  order. 

Clark  Gable  got  a  large  share  of  the 
letters — all  full  of  praise  and  begging  for 
more  of  him. 

Sylvia  Sidney  came  through  with  fly- 
ing colors  as  a  successful  substitute  for 
Clara  Bow  in  "City  Streets."  The  fans 
raved  about  her  acting  ability  and  de- 
clared Gary  Cooper  was  a  perfect  hero  in 
this  picture. 

"The  Secret  Six"  brought  the  popular 
Wallace  Beery  stacks  of  letters,  although 
the  fans  are  asking  for  a  let-up  on  gang- 
ster and  sexy  pictures.  More  variety, 
they  ask. 

With  all  of  these  new  excitements  of 
the  month,  the  fans  still  find  time  and 
thoughts  for  the  Garbo-Dietrich  battle. 
Come  what  may,  that  goes  on  forever. 


Shearer  Perfection 

AFTER  seeing  "Strangers  May  Kiss"  I 
decided  that  if  Norma  Shearer  never 
makes  another  picture,  or  if  she  never  again 
attains  this  standard,  we  can  look  back  on 
this  and  say,  "There  was  Shearer  perfec- 
tion !" 

Desire  Jennison, 

Chicago,  111. 

Norma  Shearer  was  fine  in  the  dramatic 
scenes  of  "Strangers  May  Kiss,"  but  the 
comedy  scenes  were  ruined  by  her  annoying 
giggle  which  grates  on  one's  nerves.  Too 
bad  the  story  was  not  worked  out  to  a 
logical  conclusion,  instead  of  having  her 
break  down  and  confess  that  she  should  have 
stayed  at  home  and  waited  for  her  lover's 
return.  The  plot  lost  its  punch,  and  became 
just  another  movie. 

Elsie  Hunter, 
Chicago,  111. 

"Shipmates" 

"CHIPMATES"  is  one  of  the  best,  if  not 
^  the  best  picture  I  have  ever  seen.  It's 
so  realistic  and  true  to  life.  Bob  Mont- 
gomery didn't  act  his  part — he  lived  it;  and 
Dorothy  Jordan  is  the  sweetest  girl  on  the 
screen.  This  picture  puts  a  great  big  smile 
on  your  face. 

W.  C.  Howell, 
No.  Little  Rock,  Ark. 

Time  Will  Tell— 

WHEN  Robert  Montgomery  gets  a  little 
more   poise,   he   will    be   one   of    the 
greatest  actors  ever  known. 

Mrs.  D.  A.  Dorman, 

Barre,  La. 

Robert  Montgomery  is  one  of  screen- 
land's  greatest  coming  lovers.  His  indiffer- 
ent manner  is  his  greatest  asset. 

C.  A.  Cook, 
Salinas,  Calif. 

Place  Robert  Montgomery  opposite 
Norma  Shearer,  but  not  Garbo.  He  was 
wonderful  in  "Strangers  May  Kiss"  but  ter- 
rible in  "Inspiration." 

Kathleen  Manion, 
Terre  Haute,  Ind. 
[please  turn  to  page  15] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


JAN  ET  GAYNOR 

and 

WARNER  BAXTER 


am. 


Glamorous  Janet  Gaynor  sweeps  to 
new  triumphs  of  enchanting  appeal, 
as  the  bewitching,  wistful  waif  who 
wins  the  love  of  her  handsome  million- 
aire guardian.  A  magical  masterpiece 
of  tears  and  laughter,  tenderness  and 
charm,  with  youth  and  years  contend- 
ing for  the  love  of  a  little  Cinderella 
mysteriously  lifted  from  drudgery  to 
delight.  As  dazzlingly  joyous  as  a 
flood  of  sunlight  — this  latest  direc- 
torial achievement  by  Alfred  Santell. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 


DRUMS  OF  JEOPARDY,  THE— Tiffany  Prod. 
— Mystery  melodrama  with  enough  murders  to  satisfy 
the  bloodthirsty.  Good  cast  headed  by  Warner  Oland 
and  June  Collyer.     (April) 

DUDE  RANCH— Paramount.— Jack  Oakie  woos 
and  wins  June  Collyer  in  this  hilarious  comedy  on  a 
dude  ranch,  locale  of  many  complications.  Not  a  dull 
moment.     (June) 

EASIEST  WAY,  THE— M-G-M.— A  modern 
sophisticated  story,  beautifully  directed.  Constance 
Benne*.,  Adolphe  Menjou,  Anita  Page  and  Bob 
Montgomery  do  some  grand  acting — and  what 
costumes!     (March) 

•  EAST  LYNNE— Fox.— Don't  miss  this  one. 
Beautiful,  artistic  production  of  the  heart- 
breaking old  melodrama.  Ann  Harding  captivat- 
inglv  beautiful.  Fine  support  by  Conrad  Nagel  and 
Clive  Brook.     (April) 

ESCAPE — Associated  Radio  Pictures. — An  Eng- 
lish talkie  about  an  escaped  prisoner.  Far  too 
talkie.     (Jan.) 

EX-FLAME— Liberty  Productions.— Your  old 
friend  "East  Lynne"  dressed  up  in  modern  clothes 
and  played  by  Norman  Kerry  and  Marian  Nixon. 
Old-fashioned  and  unconvincing.     (Jan.) 

FAIR  WARNING— Fox.— George  O'Brien  as  the 
honest  Western  lad  who  slays  the  wicked  villain  and 
wins  the  girl.     (Jan.) 

•  FAME — First  National. — Beautifully  and  hu- 
manly told  story  of  everyday  people.  Nothing 
spectacular,  but  full  of  charm.  Doris  Kenyon  heads 
a  perfect  cast.     (June) 

FAST  AND  LOOSE— Paramount.— A  pleasant 
little  comedy  about  the  rich  girl  who  falls  in  love  with 
the  working  man.  Miriam  Hopkins  debuts  success- 
fully as  the  girl.    (Feb.) 

FIFTY  MILLION  FRENCHMEN— Warners.— 

American  tourists  in  Paris.  Moves  so  fast  it  leaves 
you  weak.  One  good  gag  after  another.  Don't 
miss  it.     (March) 

FIGHTING  CARAVANS— Paramount.— Your 
old  friend,  "The  Covered  Wagon,"  gone  talkie  just  a 
bit  late.  The  scenes  are  beautiful  and  Ernest  Tor- 
rence  and  Tully  Marshall  are  on  hand  in  their  original 
r6les.    (Feb.) 

FIGHTING  THRU  —  Tiffany  Productions.  — 
Worth  the  price  of  admission.  Ken  Maynard  and 
his  horse  "Tarzan"  do  some  fine  work  and  the 
beautiful  Jeanette  Loff  helps  considerably.      (March) 

FINGER  POINTS,  THE— First  National.— Dick 
Barthelmess  as  a  reporter  for  one  of  Chicago's  biggest 
newspapers,  gets  in  with  gangsters.  An  intensely 
absorbing  story.  Fay  Wray  and  Regis  Toomey  give 
splendid  support.     (May) 

FINN  AND  HATTIE— Paramount.— One  long 
howl.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Haddock's  trip  abroad  ruined  by 
a  fiendish  nephew  and  a  daughter,  played  well  by 
Jackie  Searl  and  Mitzi  Green.     (April) 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


FLAME  OF  LOVE,  THE— British  International. 
— Anna  May  Wong  as  a  Chinese  vamp  in  Russia. 
But  it  really  matters  very  little.      (Jan.) 

FOR  THE  LOVE  O'  LIL— Columbia.— Naughty 
in  a  very  nice  way,  this  story  of  married  life  manages 
to  be  reasonably  entertaining.  Jack  Mulhall,  Sally 
Starr,  Elliott  Nugent  and  Margaret  Livingston  play 
it.     (Feb.) 

FREE  LOVE— Universal.— Conrad  Nagel  and 
Genevieve  Tobin  demonstrate  what  to  do  when  a 
woman  takes  up  psycho-analysis.  An  amusing  com- 
edy.    (Feb.) 

•  FRONT  PAGE,  THE— United  Artists.— 
Whirlwind  newspaper  talkie,  full  of  thrills, 
laughs  and  sobs.  You've  simply  got  to  see  it.  Adolphe 
Menjou  great  as  the  managing  editor.     (May) 

•  GANG  BUSTER,  THE  —  Paramount.  — 
Comedy-melodrama  with  Jack  Oakie  at  his 
best.  William  (stage)  Boyd  menaces  as  the  gang 
leader  and  Jean  Arthur  is  the  pretty  heroine.    (March) 

•  GENTLEMAN'S  FATE  —  M-G-M.  —  This 
tense  drama  brings  us  Jack  Gilbert  with  all 
his  old  appeal.  The  beautiful  Leila  Hyams  and  Anita 
Page  support  him  and  Louis  Wolheim  gives  a 
flawless    performance.     (March) 

GIRL  FROM  THE  REEPERBAHN,  THE 
(DAS  MAEDEL  VON  DER  REEPERBAHN)— Sonor 

Prod. — The  Germans  crash  'through  with  a  good 
one.  Grim  melodrama  with  plenty  of  action  and 
some  good  songs.     (April) 

GIRLS  DEMAND  EXCITEMENT— Fox.— Mar- 
guerite Churchill,  John  Wayne,  Virginia  Cherrill  and 
William  Janney  are  a  fine  cast  wasted  in  a  story  that 
never  rings  true.     (April) 


GOD'S  GIFT  TO  WOMEN— Warners.— Frank- 
Fay  is  the  gift — Laura  La  Plante  the  receiver,  but 
after  many  hilarious  complications.  Well  worth  see- 
ing.    (May) 

•  GREAT  MEADOW,  THE— M-G-M.— A  stir- 
ring and  exciting  yarn  of  pioneering,  with 
Eleanor  Boardman  a  brilliant  member  of  the  distin- 
guished cast.    (Feb.) 

GUN  SMOKE— Paramount.— Great  for  the  kids, 
this  old-time  Western  melodrama,  with  Dick  Arlen  as 
a  cowboy,  Mary  Brian,  the  girl,  and  William  Boyd, 
the  menace.    (May) 

HATE  SHIP,  THE— British  International.— A 
fairly  gripping  old-school  melodrama — thrills  and 
mystery  on  board  a  yacht.    (Feb.) 

HEADIN'  NORTH— Tiffany  Productions.— Bob 
Steele  with  his  horse,  cowboy  suit  and  a  coupla  guns. 
A  sizzling  hot  Western.     (Jan.) 

HELL  BOUND— Cruze-Tiffany  Prod.— Good  gang 
story  if  you're  not  tired  of  them.  Leo  Carrillo  plays 
the  broken-Englished  speakeasy  operator  and  Lola 
Lane  is  completely  charming.     (April) 


HELL'S  VALLEY— National  Players,  Ltd.— Very 

little  story,  if  any,  but  lots  of  riding  and  shooting  in 
this  Western,  with  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  Wally  Wales 
and  Vivian  Rich  sharing  the  acting  honors.     (June) 

HOLE  IN  THE  WALL,    THE   (Nar   Rosorna 

Sla  Ut)  —  Paramount.  —  Swedish  talkie  brings  us 
Sven  Gustafsson,  Garbo's  brother,  but  nothing  like 
his  famous  sister.  Light  and  chatty  love  story. 
(April) 

HONOR  AMONG  LOVERS— Paramount- 
Good  dialogue  in  this  story  of  love  between  boss  anc 
secretary,  with  excellent  performances  by  Fredric 
March.  Claudette  Colbert  and  that  Ace  of  Cads, 
Monroe  Owsley.     (May) 

HOOK,  LINE  AND  SINKER— Radio  Pictures.— 
That's  how  you'll  go  for  this  latest  gem  of  Wheeler- 
Woolsey  nonsense.  The  monkey  business  is  perpe- 
trated in  gangland.    (Feb.) 

HOW  HE  LIED  TO  HER  HUSBAND— British 

International. — George  Bernard  Shaw  surrenders  to 
the  talkies.     Amusing,  if  you  like  the   Shaw  wit. 

(March) 

•  ILLICIT — Warners. — Another  triumph  for 
Barbara  Stanwyck,  who  plays  a  modern 
maiden  who  wants  love  without  marriage.  A  dar- 
ing film,  strong  and  moving.      (Jan.) 

INDISCREET  —  United  Artists.  —  Good,  enter- 
taining  story.  Gloria  Swanson  sings  well.  Ben  Lyon 
and  Arthur  Lake  great  support.     (June) 

INSPIRATION— M-G-M.— Garbo  was  never 
lovelier  than  in  this  very  modern  story  of  the  indiscreet 
woman  and  the  price  she  pays.  Lewis  Stone,  Robert 
Montgomery  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  lend  Greta 
strong  support.    (Feb.) 


IRON  MAN — Universal. — Lew  Ayres  is  starred  as 
the  prize  fighter  but  Bob  Armstrong,  in  the  role  of 
manager,  steals  the  picture.  Jean  Harlow  plays  her 
usual  vamp  role.     (June) 

IT  PAYS  TO  ADVERTISE— Paramount— The 
old  stage  play  revamped  for  the  talkies  with  plenty 
of  speed  and  lots  of  laughs.  Skeets  Gallagher,  Nor- 
man Foster  and  Carole  Lombard  head  a  perfect  cast. 

(April) 

•  IT'S  A  WISE  CHILD— M-G-M.— Marion  1 
Davies'  rare  gift  for  comedy  and  Robert  | 
Leonard's  direction  make  this  old  stage  play  a  brand 
new  hilarious  farce  not  to  be  missed.    (May) 


JAWS  OF  HELL— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— De- 
picts the  old  poem  "The  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade" 
and  makes  the  charge  a  pretty  thrilling  business.  The 
romantic  story's  a  bit  weak.     (March) 

JUNE  MOON— Paramount.— You'll  like  this  one. 
Ring  Lardner  wrote  the  wisecracking  lines  and  Jack 
Oakie  puts  them  over  with  a  bang.     (April) 

JUST  LIKE  HEAVEN— Tiffany  Productions.— A 
simple  little  romance  between  a  toe  dancer  and  a 
balloon  peddler.  Fifteen-year-old  Anita  Louise  is  the 
heroine.     (Feb.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  16  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment. 


Page 

Affairs  of  Annabelle,  The— Fox 108 

Always  Goodbye — Fox 52 

Captain  Thunder — Warners ,.  .  109 

Chances — First  National 53 

Daddy  Long  Legs — Fox 51 

Everything's  Rosie — Radio  Pictures.  .  108 

Flood,  The — Columbia 110 

Free  Soul,  A— M-G-M 50 

Gold  Dust  Gertie— Warners 108 

Good  Bad  Girl,  The— Columbia 108 

High  Stakes — Radio  Pictures 52 

Just  a  Gigolo— M-G-M 53 


Page 

Kick  In — Paramount 53 

Lawyer's  Secret,  The — Paramount.  .  .  52 

Mad  Genius,  The — Warners 52 

Mad  Parade,  The — Liberty  Prod 52 

Monsters  of   the   Deep — Nat  Spitzer 

Prod 110 

6  Cylinder  Love — Fox 108 

Sky  Raiders,  The — Columbia 107 

Smart  Money — Warners 50 

Smiling  Lieutenant,  The — Paramount  50 

Subway  Express — Columbia 108 

Texas  Ranger,  The — Columbia 109 


Make  this  your  reference  list. 
Page 

This  Modern  Age— M-G-M 109 

Traveling  Husbands — Radio  Pictures.  53 
Upper  Underworld — First  National. . .   107 

Up  Pops  the  Devil — Paramount 52 

Vice  Squad,  The — Paramount 51 

Waiting  at  the  Church — Radio  Pictures  109 
White  Shoulders — Radio  Pictures.  ...  110 
Woman  of  Experience,  A— RKO-Pathe   108 

Women  of  All  Nations — Fox 53 

Young  as  You  Feel — Fox 53 

Young  Donovan's  Kid — Radio  Pictures  51 
Young  Sinners — Fox 107 


Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 98  J 


10 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


HE  is  genius — madman 
—  lover!  His  hypnotic 
spell  reaches  out  of 
darkness  controlling 
love  —  hate  —  life    itself. 

SHE  is  the  beauty  who 
has  all  Paris  at  her 
famous  feet — who  wins 
men  with  a  smile — who 
hates  Svengali  the  sinis- 
ter love  maker  —  until 
his  magic  spell  forces 
even  Iter  heart  to  heat  to 
his    manufactured   lore! 


JOHN 


•• 


as 


SVENGALI 

The  Hypnotist 

MARIAN 

M  A  IC  S  11 


as"Trilby 


99 


Directed  by  ARCHIE  MAYO 

Based   on  the   novel   "Trilby"  by   DU    MA  DRIER 


v. 


*Vitaphonen    is     the    registered    trade-mark    of 
The  Vitaphone  Corporation 


Don't    mi--*   the  newest  beauty  of  the   screen,  allot  ing    Marian 
Marsh,  selected  for  this  great  part    by    Mr.  Barry  mo  re,  himself. 


A  WARNER  BROS.  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 


■^Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


ALMOST  A  HONEYMOON— British  Inter- 
national.— A  light  bedroom  farce.  The  gags  would 
have  been  funny  ten  years  ago.   Very  mild.     (March) 

ALOHA— Rogell-Tiffany  Production. — The  old 
"Bird  of  Paradise"  plot  made  over  for  the  talkies. 
Some  quite-good  comedy  and  a  lot  of  surefire  sob 
stuff.  Ben  Lyon  and  Raquel  Torres  work  hard. 
(.March) 

ANYBODY'S  GIRL— Columbia.— A  realistic 
story  of  a  taxi-dancer's  disillusionment.  Barbara 
Stanwyck  and  Ricardo  Cortez  are  great.    (Feb.) 

BACHELOR  APARTMENT— Radio  Pictures  — 
The  superb  direction  and  acting  of  Lowell  Sherman 
make  this  sophisticated  story  interesting  from  start  to 
finish.  Mae  Murray  returns  as  a  modern  vamp,  a 
restless  married  woman.    Splendid  cast.    (May) 

BACHELOR  FATHER,  THE—  M-G-M  —  Marion 
Davies  at  her  best  in  a  sprightly,  sophisticated  com- 
edy.   Good  for  one  million  laughs.    (Feb.) 

BAD  SISTER— Universal.— Sidney  Fox,  talented 
little  newcomer,  plays  the  title  role  in  this  entirely 
natural  story  based  on  Booth  Tarkington's  "The 
Flirt."    Conrad  Nagel  is  the  hero.    (May) 

•  BAT  WHISPERS,  THE— United  Artists- 
Daddy  of  all  scare  movies,  and  it's  a  lulu. 
The  cameramen  and  Chester  Morris  share  first 
honors.     (Jan.) 

•  BEAU  IDEAL— Radio  Pictures.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Devil's  Battalion") — A 
spectacular  sequel  to  "Beau  Geste,"  made  with  many 
of  the  same  actors.  A  great  picture  in  which  Ralph 
Forbes,  Loretta  Young  and  Don  Alvarado  do  great 
work.    (Feb.) 

BEHIND  OFFICE  DOORS— Radio  Pictures  — 
Mary  Astor  fine  as  the  clever  secretary  who  helps  her 
boss  (Robert  Ames)  to  rise  to  importance  in  the  in- 
dustrial world.     Interesting  story.     (April) 

BEYOND  VICTORY—  RKO-Pathe.—  Poor  war 
film,  starring  Bill  Boyd.  ZaSu  Pitts,  Lew  Cody  and 
Jimmy  Gleason  make  the  effort  but  can't  do  much  for 
this  one.     (May) 

BIG  BUSINESS  GIRL— First  National.— Lively 
comedy  of  1931  styles  in  business  and  love.  Plenty  of 
laughs,  some  thrills,  Ricardo  Cortez,  Frank  Albertson 
and  Loretta  Young  in  pretty  clothes.  A  good  movie. 
(May) 

BIG  MONEY— Pathe.— Eddie  Quillan's  luck  at 
cards  drags  him  among  the  big-time  gamblers.  But 
it's  all  a  lot  of  fun  and  Eddie's  fresh  wisecracks  will 
convulse  you.     (Jan.) 

•  BLUE  ANGEL,  THE— UFA-Paramount  — 
Emil  Jannings'  first  talkie  in  English.  And  it's 
a  knockout.  So  is  Marlene  Dietrich  as  the  woman 
who  drives  a  man  mad.    (Feb.) 

BODY  AND  SOUL— Fox.— See  this  one.  Great 
entertainment.  Charlie  Farrell  and  Elissa  Landi 
(from  the  stage).  You'll  like  her.  Myrna  Loy  is  the 
mean  one.     (April) 

BORN  TO  LOVE— RKO-Pathe.— Ancient  plot 
of  the  war  nurse.  Two  officers  and  whose-baby-is-it 
fails  to  be  highly  entertaining  in  spite  of  the  efforts 
of  Constance  Bennett.     (June) 

BROAD  MINDED— First  National.— Joe  E. 
Brown  tries  hard  to  bring  a  lot  of  moribund  jokes  and 
gags  back  to  life,  but  there's  scarcely  a  giggle.   (June) 

BROTHERS— Columbia.— Bert  Lytell  acts  a 
dual  role  in  a  mildly  effective  melodramatic  thriller. 
(Jan.) 

BY  ROCKET  TO  THE  MOON— UFA.— The 
Germans  present  an  interesting  lesson  in  astronomy, 
if  you  like  astronomy.     (April) 

CAUGHT  CHEATING— Tiffany  Productions  — 

George  Sidney  and  Charlie  Murray  get  tangled  with 
a  Chicago  gangster's  wife  and  are  taken  for  a  ride. 
Fast-moving  and  pretty  good  fun.     (March) 

8 


CHARLEY'S  AUNT— Columbia.— The  old  farce 
is  still  funny.  Charles  Ruggles  makes  it  worth  seeing 
again.      (Jan.) 

CHARLIE  CHAN  CARRIES  ON— Fox.— Grand 
mystery  with  lots  of  thrills  and  romance.  Warner 
Oland  marvelous  as  Chan.  John  Garrick  and  Mar- 
guerite Churchill  are  the  love  interest.     (April) 

CHERI  BIBI— M-G-M.— Jack  Gilbert  in  an  en- 
tertaining drama.  Lots  of  tragedy,  but  a  happy  end- 
ing and  Leila  Hyams  as  the  heroine.  Well  worth 
seeing.     (June) 

CHILDREN  OF  DREAMS— Warners— A  musi- 
cal which  you  can  miss  and  think  nothing  of  it. 
(April) 

CHISELERS   OF   HOLLYWOOD— Willis   Kent 

Productions. — First-rate  entertainment.  Hokum, 
humor  and  heart.  Phyllis  Barrington,  a  newcomer, 
does  great  work.    (Feb.) 


POLITICS 

Rule  the  world,  and  they 
rule  Hollywood,  too!  Being 
a  good  actor  or  actress  alone 
is  not  enough  to  succeed  in 
the  town  where 

Studio  Politics  Rule 

Next  month's  Photoplay 
will  tell  you  the  real  story 
of  politics  in  Hollywood. 
One  of  the  best  "inside" 
stories  ever  written. 

In  the  August  issue  of 

PHOTOPLAY 


•  CIMARRON— Radio  Pictures.— The  thrilling 
story  of  the  pioneer  West,  superbly  transferred 
to  the  screen.  Richard  Dix  re-establishes  himself  as 
a  star,  and  heads  a  remarkable  cast.  '  (Feb.) 

•  CITY  LIGHTS— Chaplin-United  Artists.— 
The  one  and  only  Chaplin  makes  another 
masterpiece.  Magnificent  comedy  and  heartbreak- 
ing pathos  intermingled.  You  can  see  it  again  and 
again.     (March) 

•  CITY  STREETS  —  Paramount.  —  Absorbing, 
fast-moving  gang  melodrama,  well  directed. 
Gary  Cooper  and  Sylvia  Sidney  (from  the  New  York 
stage)  give  grand  performances.  Don't  miss  it.  (June) 

CLEARING  THE  RANGE— Allied— Hoot  Gib- 
son and  the  wife,  Sally  Eilers.in  a  fine  Western  with 
thrills,  laughs  and  plenty  of  action.     (June) 

COHENS  AND  KELLYS  IN  AFRICA,  THE— 

Universal. — Charlie  Murray  and  George  Sidney.  A 
scream  from  start  to  finish.      (Jan.) 

COMMAND    PERFORMANCE,    THE— Cruze- 

Tiffany  Productions. — A  bright  and  spicy  comedy 
about  one  of  those  engaging  mythical  kingdoms. 
Neil  Hamilton  is  simply  grand.    (Feb.) 


COMRADES  OF  1918— Forenfilms—  Gruesome, 
harrowing  German  talkie  follows  the  fortunes  of  four 
young  Teuton  soldiers  in  the  last  year  of  the  late  war. 
Don't  take  the  children.    (May) 

CONCENTRATIN'  KID,  THE— Universal.— 
Hoot  Gibson  falls  in  love  with  a  radio  voice.  A 
weak-sister  for  Hoot.      (Jan.) 

•  CONNECTICUT  YANKEE,  A— Fox— Its 
better  than  the  silent  version  and  you'll  love 
Will  Rogers.  William  Farnum  and  Myrna  Loy  are 
excellent.  Maureen  O'Sullivan  and  Frank  Albertson 
supply  the  love  interest.     (April) 

CONQUERING  HORDE,  THE— Paramount.— 
Dick  Arlen  makes  this  Western  fine  entertainment. 
Fay  Wray  adorable  as  the  girl.     (April) 

COSTELLO  CASE— Sono  Art— James  Cruze.— 
The  sweethearts  are  suspected  of  murder  again. 
Tom  Moore  is  the  wise  copper.  Pretty  obvious 
melodrama.     (Jan.) 

CRACKED  NUTS— Radio  Pictures.— Wheeler 
and  Woolsey  in  a  rush  of  dialogue  to  the  screen,  and 
not  very  good  (dialogue.    Amusing  in  spots.     (April) 

•CRIMINAL  CODE,  THE— Columbia.— Don't 
miss  this  powerful  prison  drama.  You'll  never 
forget  it.  Walter  Huston  and  Phillips  Holmes  head  a 
brilliant  cast.     (Feb.) 

DAMAGED    LOVE— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— 

1  Pretty    mild.      June    Collyer's   charm   and    dimples 

save  it  from  being  an  entire  waste  of  time.      (March) 

DANCE  FOOLS,  DANCE— M-G-M— Fast  and 
thrilling  entertainment.  Joan  Crawford  again  proves 
herself  a  great  dramatic  actress.  Billy  Bakewell  fine 
as  the  weak  young  brother  who  falls  in  with  gang- 
sters.    (March) 

DANCERS,  THE— Fox.— A  rambling,  younger 
generation  drama  which  isn't  at  its  best  on  the  screen. 
The  players,  including  Lois  Moran  and  Phillips 
Holmes,  do  their  best.    (Feb.) 

DAWN  TRAIL,  THE— Columbia.— A  good  Buck 
Jones  Western  with  a  rip-roarin'  fight  between  the 
sheep  and  cattle  men.    (Feb.) 

DAYBREAK— M-G-M.— The  charming  perform- 
ances of  Helen  Chandler  and  Ramon  Novarro,  as  the 
student  prince,  make  this  romantic  and  wistful  love 
story  well  worth  seeing.     (June) 

•  DEVIL  TO  PAY,  THE— United  Artists-Sam- 
uel Goldwyn. — Ronnie  Colman  breezes  through 
a  tasty,  spicy  little  comedy.  Great  cast,  sparkling 
dialogue  and  finished  production.    (Feb.) 

DICH  HAB  ICH  GELIEBT  (Because  I  Loved 
You) — AAFA-Tobis. — Though  it's  in  German,  you 
needn't  understand  the  language  to  enjoy  this  sweet 
love  story.     (Jan.) 

•  DIRIGIBLE— Columbia. — Thrilling  melo- 
drama of  adventure  at  the  South  Pole.  The 
Navy  helped  make  it  and  the  airplane  and  dirigible 
shots  leave  you  breathless.  Ralph  Graves,  Jack  Holt 
and  Fay  Wray  take  high  honors.    (May) 

•  DISHONORED  — Paramount.— Marlene 
Dietrich  exciting  as  an  Austrian  spy  in  a  tense 
story,  splendidly  directed.  Victor  McLaglen  great  as 
the  Russian  officer.    (May) 

DOCTORS'  WIVES— Fox.— Joan  Bennett,  War- 
ner Baxter  and  Victor  Varconi  in  a  story  of  jealousy. 
Not  very  convincing.     (April) 

DON'T  BET  ON  WOMEN— Fox.— Husbands, 
wives  and  lovers  mix-up.  Good  adult  entertainment, 
with  smart  dialogue.  Roland  Young,  Edmund  Lowe, 
Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Una  Merkel  make  the  most 
of  their  parts.     (April) 

DRACULA — Universal. — A  mystery  story  full  of 
creeps  and  thrills.  Helen  Chandler  grand  as  the 
terrified  heroine.     (March) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  10  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


1  1 


DOUGLAS 


\ 


\ 


f> 


PAI  It  BAN  KS 


JR 


;:chances 


with 

ROSE  HOBART 

The  picture  thousands  of  fans  have  waited  for, 
clamored  for,  actually  demanded — Douglas 
Fairbanks,  Jr.  in  a  greater  role  than  in  "The 
Dawn  Patrol"  .  .  .  He  reaches  full-fledged  star- 
dom in  "  Chances "  where  men  sport  with  fate, 
honor  and  life;  and  love  tramps  the  shambles 
of  the  battlefield  .  .  .  "The  Dawn-Patrol- 
Fairbanks"  as  you  would  have  him  in  war  and 
love — with  the  gorgeously  beautiful  Rose  Hobart. 


"Vitaphone"  it    the    registered   trade- 
mark   of   The    Vitaphone  Corporation 


Directed  by  ALAN  DAWN 

Story  by  A. HAMILTON  ClllMs 

Adaplniioii  l.v    \*  aldrnirr  Young 

v.  iih  a  <  n-t   in<  lulling 

ANTHONY     HI  SHELL 

HOLM  F.  S     HERBERT 

MARY     FORBES 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


The  Girl 


on 


the  Cover 


By 

Frances  Kish 


WHEN  you  meet 
Claudette  Colbert, 
when  you  watch  her 
at  work  on  the  set, 
you  get  the  impression  that  she  is 
all  animation.  Yet  the  real 
Claudette  is  a  quiet,  reserved  girl 
who  doesn't  talk  much,  cares  little 
for  social  life,  and  feels  the  weight 
of  responsibility  to  an  unusual 
degree. 

"I  can  worry  off  ten  pounds  in 
as  many  days,"  she  says.  "  When 
I  am  working  I  am  always  under- 
weight, no  matter  how  much  I  eat 
or  how  much  I  rest.  I  can't  un- 
derstand why  an  actress  should 
have  to  ward  off  excess  poundage. 
With  the  constant  strain  of  each 
new  role,  the  worry  over  each 
day's  scenes,  how  can  anyone  re- 
main placid  enough  to  gain  weight? 

"If  you're  not  getting  the 
'breaks'  you  worry  until  you  do, 
and  when  you  do  get  them  you 
wonder  how  long  it  will  continue. 
The  tension  of  stage  and  screen 
work  is  terrific." 

At  this  point  in  the  conversa- 
tion, Madame  Colbert,  Claudette's 
attractive  mother,  breaks  in  with, 
"Yes,  and  if  there  isn't  anything 
at  all  to  worry  about,  Claudette 
finds  something."  Which  explains 
why,  in  order  to  gain  twelve 
needed  pounds,  Claudette  has  been 
living  on  a  special  diet  for  a  period 
of  about  six  months.  Coddled 
eggs,  an  average  of  eight  glasses  of 
hot  milk  daily — each  glass  con- 
taining two  ounces  of  cream  — 

cereals  with  cream,  creamed  vegetable  soups,  custards,  rice 
pudding,  junket,  and  generously  buttered  toast  have  been  her 
main  foods. 

She  now  weighs  about  112  pounds,  which  is  little  enough  for 
her  five  feet,  four  inches  of  height,  even  though  the  motion 
picture  cameras  add  about  ten  pounds  to  her  screen  image.  But 
her  shapely  legs  inspired  a  New  York  columnist  to  use  the 
phrase,  "a  swell  pair  of  Colberts,"  whenever  he  wanted  to  pay 
tribute  to  a  lady's  supporting  attractions. 

FOUR  years  ago  when  she  played  in  her  first  picture,  First 
National's  "For  the  Love  of  Mike,"  she  decided  she  had 
enough  of  the  screen. 

"I  hated  silent  pictures,"  she  says.  "To  me  they  had 
absolutely  no  connection  with  the  stage.  And  I  guess  I  was 
pretty  terrible  as  a  motion  picture  actress.  I  didn't  photograph 
very  well  and  I  wasn't  beautiful  enough  to  get  by  solely  on  my 
looks.  Not  until  the  talkies  gave  me  a  voice  on  the  screen  and 
let  me  act  as  I  would  on  the  stage  did  I  begin  to  see  possibilities 
for  myself  in  pictures." 

Claudette  had  not  sought  a  picture  career.  She  had  not  in- 
tended to  be  an  actress — "only  as  every  girl  sometimes  dreams 
about  it,"  she  adds.  With  her  parents  and  older  brother  she 
had  left  her  native  Paris  when  she  was  about  six  years  old.  She 
was  born  in  Paris,  September  13,  1907. 

12 


She's  trying  to  put  on  weight 


The  Chauchoin  family  (Colbert 
is  her  mother's  maiden  name,  an 
easier  one  for  American  tongues) 
settled  in  New  York  City.  At  high 
school  she  began  to  develop  a 
talent  for  drawing  and  she  con- 
tinued her  studies  at  an  art  school, 
having  decided  to  make  fashion 
sketching  her  work.  But  a  few 
days  of  taking  her  portfolio 
around  to  solicit  orders,  a  few 
days  of  waiting  outside  office  doors 
while  she  tried  to  summon  up 
courage  enough  to  go  in,  convinced 
her  she  would  never  be  a  success 
at  marketing  her  own  wares. 

BUT,  like  everything  else  that 
has  come  to  her,  a  stage  career 
was  handed  her  "on  a  silver  plat- 
ter." At  a  tea  one  afternoon  she 
met  Anne  Morrison,  author  of 
"The  Wild  Westcotts,"  with  the 
result  that  she  was  given  a  small  bi  t 
in  that  play  which  served  to  launc  h 
her  in  the  theater.  She  wanted  to 
try  pictures  then,  but  a  friend  ad- 
vised her  to  wait.  He  told  her  she 
didn't  have  a  "photographic"face, 
but  that  if  she  continued  to  per- 
fect her  acting  the  time  would 
come  when  movie  people  would 
approach  her. 

He  was  right.  Just  as  a  stage 
opportunity  had  come  without 
effort,  her  first  screen  opportunity 
sought  her  out. 

The  first  talkie  she  made  was 
"The  Hole  in  the  Wall,"  for  Para- 
mount.    She  says  about  it,  "It 
was  pretty  sad."     But  when  she 
appeared  opposite  Walter  Huston  in  Paramount's  "The  Lady 
Lies,"  both  she  and  the  box-office  began  to  take  her  picture 
career  seriously. 

Even  her  radio  debut  was  unsought.  She  has  always  liked  to 
sing  and,  as  a  young  girl,  took  a  few  voice  lessons.  She  sings  in 
"The  Smiling  Lieutenant."  While  she  was  working  in  that 
picture,  a  national  radio  hour  offered  her  a  huge  sum  for  two 
songs.    She  became  hysterical  after  the  broadcast. 

HER  eyes  are  large,  dark  brown  and  velvety.  Her  lashes  are 
long  and  curling.  Her  nose  is  too  broad  for  real  beauty, 
but  her  mouth  is  full  and  feminine.  Heavy  masses  of  very 
dark  brown  hair  spring  back  from  a  low  forehead. 

At  the  studio  she  has  a  reputation  for  being  tractable  and 
totally  lacking  in  temperament. 

Claudette  and  Norman  Foster  were  secretly  married  three 
years  ago  in  London,  where  they  were  both  playing  in  the  stage 
play,  "The  Barker."  The  news,  even  after  their  marriage  be- 
came known,  that  Claudette  continued  to  live  in  a  small  apart- 
ment with  her  mother  while  her  husband  maintained  a  separate 
apartment,  caused  a  mild  stir. 

In  "Young  Man  of  Manhattan,"  Norman  played  her  screen 
husband,  but  of  recent  months  Claudette  has  been  making 
pictures  at  Paramount's  Eastern  studio  and  Norman  has  been 
working  at  the  Hollywood  studio. 


Smoke  i%  I<ki:sii  cigarette 


Millions  of  men  and  women  are  now  dis- 
covering a  brand  new  enjoyment  since 
Camels  adopted  the  new  Humidor  Pack. 

The  mildness  and  the  flavor  of  fine 
tobacco  vanish  when  scorching  or  evapo- 
ration steals  the  natural  moisture  out  of 
a  cigarette. 

Now,  thanks  to  the  new  Humidor  Pack, 
Camels,  wherever  you  find  them,  are  al- 
ways fresh  and  in  perfect  mild  condition. 


Factory-fresh  Camels  are  air-sealed  in  the 
new  Sanitary  Package  which  keeps  the 
dust  and  germs  out,  and  keeps  the  flavor  in. 

No  harsh,  dried  tobacco  to  burn  the 
throat.  No  peppery  dust  to  sting  delicate 
membrane — just  the  cool  mild  aroma  of 
fine  tobacco,  properly  conditioned. 

If  you  haven't  smoked  a  Camel  recently, 
switch  over  for  just  one  day,  then  quit 
them — if  you  can. 


//  is  the  mark  of  a  considerate  hostess, 
by  means  of  the  Humidor  Pack,  to 
"Serre  afresh  cigarette.  "  Buy  faint  Is 
by  the  carton  —  this  cigarette  u  ill 
remain  fresh  in  your  home  and  office 


©  1931,  R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobarro  Company, 
Winston-Salem,  N.  C, 


Ca  m  k  ls 


Clever. . .  hard  working ...  but 

couldn't  get  ahead  until  she  ended  fB.O.' 

O  {Bod u  Odor) 


AVERY  capable  girl,  everyone  agreed. 
A  nice  girl,  too.  Yet  she  didn't  ad- 
vance. Raises  were  slow  and  small.  Promo- 
tions passed  her  by.  People  liked  her  person- 
ally, but  seemed  to  avoid  her. 

Then  the  new  office  manager,  a  woman, 
had  a  talk  with  her.  Gave  her  a  tactful  hint 
about  "B.O.",  the  polite  term  for  something 
people  dislike  even  to  mention — body  odor. 
Suggested  a  simple  way  to  avoid  offending. 
.  .  .  From  that  day  on,  her  "luck"  seemed  to 
change.  She's  popular  with  everyone  now — 
has  twice  been  promoted  within  six  months. 
"B.O."  no  longer  cheats  her  of  friendship  or 
success. 

Hotter  weather  no  excuse  for  ""B.O." 

We  perspire  more  freely  these  sultry  sum- 
mer days.  We  have  to  in  order  to  endure  the 
heat.  And  though  we  don't  notice  "B.O."  in 


LIFEBUOY 

Shaving   Cream 

New  double*dense  lather 
soothes,  lubricates  and 
protects  .  .  .  ends  tender 

\         spots  that  hurt  when  vou      M 
shave.  At  your  druggist's    ' 


ourselves,  the  slightest  hint  of  it  annoys 
others. 

But  perspiration  can  be  kept  odorless  by 
a  simple  safeguard  millions  of  particular 
people  have  adopted.  It's  Lifebuoy,  the  de- 
lightful toilet  soap  thatlathers  so  abundantly 
— even  in  hardest  water.  Refreshing,  mildly 
antiseptic,  this  rich,  creamy  lather  pene- 
trates deeply  into  the  pores — removes  all 
odor.  Its  pleasant,  extra-clean  scent — that 
vanishes  as  you  rinse — tells  you  Lifebuoy 
purifies. 

Fresh,  glowing  complexion  beauty 

Lifebuoy  helps  complexions  renew  their 
loveliness.  Its  searching,  deep-cleansing  lather 
gently  frees  clogged  pores  of  impurities — 
freshens  dull  skins — promotes  healthy,  radi- 
ant beauty.  Adopt  Lifebuoy  today. 

LEVER  BROTHERS  CO.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

Lifebuoy 

HEALTH       SOAP  •/ 

-stops  body  odor 


The   Audience   Speaks   Its    Mind 


[continued  from  PAGE  6 


Brown  or  Beery? 

"The  Secret  Six"  has  a  multitude  of  sins,  but 
the  greatest  was  featuring  Wallace  Beery  above 
Johnny  Mack  Brown.  Johnny  deserves  com- 
plete and  absolute  stardom  more  than  anyone 
else  in  the  movies,  and  instead  M-G-M  puts 
him  in  a  secondary  role. 

P.  C, 
New  Orleans,  La. 

"The  Secret  Six"  is  a  splendid  gang  picture 
— well  written,  well  directed  and  well  cast,  but 
it  would  be  just  another  gang  story  without  the 
personality  of  Wallace  Beery.  His  humor  sup- 
plied the  balance  the  picture  needed  to  keep  it 
from  being  too  tense  and  gruesome. 

Frank  Allen, 
New  York  City. 

Opinions  Differ — 

Constance  Bennett  is  the  most  cultured  girl 
on  the  screen.  She  has  the  richest  and  most 
interesting  voice;  even  finer  than  Ruth  Chat- 
terton. 

Lilion  McGrath, 
Montreal,  Can. 

Why  all  this  raving  about  Constance 
Bennett? 

Ann  Craig, 
Asheville,  N.  C. 

When  Garbo  is  ready  to  abdicate,  Constance 
Bennett  will  be  next  in  line  for  the  throne. 
Evelyn  K.  Abrahams, 
Charleston,  S.  C. 

"It's  a  Wise  Child" 

I  really  don't  think  I've  enjoyed  any  of 
Marion  Davies'  pictures  quite  so  much  as 
"It's  a  Wise  Child."  It's  hilariously  comical 
and  full  of  wholesome  fun,  so  that  parents  can 
take  their  children  to  see  it.  Marion  is  better 
today  than  she  was  ten  years  ago. 

Austin  C.  Moore, 
New  Orleans,  La. 

Garbo  vs.  Dietrich 

Garbo  is  charming  in  her  cold,  dignified  way, 
but  Marlene  knocks  us  cold  with  her  flaming 
beauty  and  warm  spirit. 

Jean  Meredith, 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 

I  admired  Garbo  more  in  silent  than  in  talk- 
ing pictures.  She  is  sometimes  very  difficult  to 
understand.  She  rolls  her  R's  and  her  voice  is 
very  raspy,  while  Dietrich's  voice  is  mellow  and 
clear  and  certainly  no  one  can  complain  of  her 
enunciation. 

Edna  B.  Stiltz, 
Bluefield,  W.  Va. 

After  seeing  and  hearing  Barbara  Stanwyck 
in  her  third  picture,  my  old  favorites  appear 
like  amateurs:  even  Garbo. 

Mrs.  Fred  J.  Tory, 

York,  Penna. 

How  anyone  can  praise  Garbo  with  Norma 
Shearer  in  existence  is  beyond  my  power  of 
comprehension.  She  is  nothing  compared  with 
Shearer  for  beauty,  personality  and  acting 
ability. 

J.  G.  Eady, 
Birmingham,  Ala. 

I  once  said  that  Garbo  was  the  only  star  who 
could  walk  gracefully — so  gracefully  that  one 
forgot  she  was  even  moving.    I  now  take  that 


back.    Elissa  Landi  can  do  the  same  thing,  and 
more  gracefully  than  Garbo. 

Albert  D.  Roehn, 
Chester,  Penna. 

After  seeing  Marlene  Dietrich's  third  picture, 
"Dishonored,"  I  am  still  wondering  why  she  is 
billed  as  an  actress.  She  is  charming  and  at 
times  unbelievably  beautiful,  but  all  this  does 
not  make  her  an  actress.  Most  of  the  time 
she's  on  the  screen  she  wastes  by  smoking 
cigarettes  and  draping  herself  around  chairs. 
Jemima  Lindsay, 
Mount  Vernon,  X.  Y. 


Silk  suits  and  ensembles  are  recom- 
mended by  Seymour  for  Summer 
wear.  Therefore,  this  afternoon  en- 
semble of  Sylvia  Sidney's  should 
receive  honorable  mention,  don't  you 
think?  It  is  a  dull  blue  silk  crepe  with 
the  three-quarter  length  coat  trimmed 
in  blue  fox.  The  nattering  small  hat 
matches  the  fur  in  color.  Nice  for 
those  cooler  days 


A  gorgeous  sunset  after  a  drab  day. 
A  glorious  symphony  of  tragic  notes  and 
poignant  beauty. 

A  poem  of  divine  loveliness. 

An  elusive  charm  as  of  fleecy,  fleeting  clouds. 

A  Being,  rare  and  exquisite — 

Garbo,  the  Incomparable. 

Zelma  Smith, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

Often  imitated,  but  never  duplicated.  Garbo 
is  as  flawless  as  white  ivory. 

Mrs.  J.  Y.  I'dnn 
Lexington,  Ky. 


Random  Opinion* 

Tallulah  Bankhead  has  the  same  personality 

as  Dietrich.     You  are  compelled  t<>  like  her. 
Blani  in  si  \k^, 

liialt-ah,  1  l.i. 

Alexander  Gray,  in  my  opinion,  is  one  of  the 
DCS!   actors   the   talkies   iiave   brought    to  light 

ll<  has  a  (me  ringing  voice  and  never  does  any 

unnecessary  overacting.    I  prefer  him  to  all  the 
Maurice  Chevaliers  in  the  world. 

I    Catanzabo, 
Port  Said,  Egypt 

Sylvia  Sidney  is  a  great  actress,  and  a  thrill- 
ing, different  personality. 

Lynn  I 
Yonkers,  X.  Y. 

What  the  screen  fans  demand  today  i-  Per- 
sonality!   This  quality  is  forcefully  expn 
by  Clark  Gable. 

Carol  Dk  k- 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
• 
Why  does  June  Collyer  smile  so  artificially? 

K  Mill  RIM.    I   1  I  /, 

St.  Louis,  Mo. 

Fredric  March's  acting  is  real   art.      It    is 
without  the  slightest  trace  of  self-conscion 
or  affectation.    His  quiet,  dignified  mannerand 
low,  modulated  voice  are  entirely  pleasing. 
Evelyn  Girau.t, 
Xew  Orleans,  La. 

Charles  Farrell's  voice  is  completely  lacking 
in  dramatic  tone. 

D.  M.  Poi'iE. 
Forest  Hills,  L.  I. 

Producers!  Give  us  John  Boles'  productions 
with  plenty  of  that  golden  voice. 

E.  W.  Hewitt, 
Richmond,  \'a. 

All  pictures  are  alike  these  days — wise- 
cracking, dancing,  scandal  and  crime.  Why 
not  give  us  something  different? 

Cynthia  Van  Hleson, 
Meridian,  Miss. 

Why  do  they  give  songs  to  Chevalier  and 
stories  to  Garbo  that  are  in  no  way  worthy  of 
their  talents? 

J.  P.  Donner, 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 

Lewis  Stone  .  .  .  going  grey  in  the  film 
world  and  getting  handsomer  yearly.  He  has 
a  finish  the  youngsters  lack  and  an  intriguing 
romanticism  felt  by  women  from  sixteen  to 
sixty. 

Licille  M  v  Don  \in 

Santa  Cruz,  Calif. 

Advice  for  Joan 

Joan  Crawford  is  one  of  our  most  brilliant 
actresses.  Give  her  more  dramatic  parts  like 
"Paid." 

Ramon  Tiiomi 

Xew  York  City. 

Why  doesn't  Joan  Crawford  get  the  hurt, 
sick  look  out  of  her  c\ 

Charlie  Job  Webb, 
Greenville,  Texas. 
[  please  turn  to  page  119  ] 

15 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FXOII  PAGE  10  I 


KEPT  HUSBANDS— Radio  Pictures.  Lively  en- 
tertainment. Dorothy  Mackaill  and  Joel  McCrea  an 
attractive  pair  and  the  still  beautiful  Clara  Kimball 
Young  returns  to  us.     (April) 

•  KIKI — United  Artists. —  Presenting  a  new 
Mary  Pickford.  saucy  and  sophisticated  in  a 
grand  comedy.  Vou  can  safely  take  the  kids.  Regi- 
nald Denny  is  the  lead.     (.April) 

LADIES'  MAN— Paramount.— William  Powell  as 
a  sympathetic  and  attractive  gigolo,  charms  Olive 
Teli.  Carole  Lombard  and  Kay  Francis.  Entertain- 
ing picture.   (June) 

LADY  REFUSES,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— If  you 
want  a  good  cry,  here's  your  chance.  Rather  an  old 
story,  but  Betty  Compson,  Gilbert  Emery  and  John 
Darrow  make  it  realistic.     (April) 

LAND  OF  MISSING  MEN,  THE— Tiffany 
Productions. — A  Bob  Steele  Western.  Hard  ridin', 
and  that's  all  there  is  to  it.     (Jan.) 

LAST  OF  THE  LONE  WOLF— Columbia.— The 
perennial  Lone  Wolf  in  the  person  of  ageless  Bert 
Lytell.  After  much  rushing  about,  Bert  preserves  the 
queen's  fair  name!  It  all  happens  in  mythical 
Saxonia.     (Jan.) 

LAST  PARADE,  THE— Columbia.— Another 
gangster  picture  and  good  too,  with  thrills,  suspense, 
romance  and  laughs.  Jack  Holt  and  Tom  Moore  are 
rivals  for  Cbnstance  Cummings'  favor.  Jack  wins. 
(May) 

LAUGH  AND  GET  RICH— Radio  Pictures- 
Misadventures  of  a  boarding  house  mistress,  played 
by  Edna  May  Oliver,  and  her  chronically  tired  hubby, 
Hugh  Herbert.    Good  for  plenty  of  laughs.    (May) 

LIFE  OF  THE  PARTY,  THE— Warners- 
Winnie  Lightner  roughhouses  in  high  class  Techni- 
color and  Havana's  fast  set.    What  laughs!     (Jan.) 

•  LIGHTNIN'— Fox.— Don't  miss  this,  for  it's 
Will  Rogers  at  his  best.  A  real  story  about 
the  Nevada  divorce  mill,  a  fine  cast,  brilliant  di- 
rection. And  the  choicest  Rogers  observations. 
What  more  could  you  ask?     (Jan.) 

LIGHTNING  FLYER,  THE— Columbia— Jimmy 
Hall  as  the  wild  young  son,  who  makes  good  and  wins 
the  love  of  a  good  woman — Dorothy  Sebastian.  Not 
so  good;  then  again,  not  so  bad.    (May) 

LION  AND  THE  LAMB,  THE— Columbia.— A 
gangster  story  supposed  to  be  good  clean  fun.  It's 
clean,  anyway.  Miriam  Seegar,  Carmel  Myers  and 
Walter  Byron  are  the  principals.      (Jan.) 

LITTLE  CAFE,  THE  (Le  Petit  Cafe)— Para- 
mount.— Chevalier's  French  version  of  "Playboy  of 
Paris"  and  simply  great.  Gay  and  charming  with 
more  songs  added  and  his  wife,  Yvonne  Vallee. 
(April) 

•  LONELY  WIVES—  Pathe  —  Edward  Everett 
Horton  great,  in  a  side-splitting  farce.  Patsy 
Ruth  Miller,  Esther  Ralston  and  Laura  La  Plante 
are  the  girls  involved.     (April) 

LOOSE  ENDS— British  Internationa!.  — The 
Britisli  have  a  go  at  a  problem  drama.  Weak  and 
wordy.     (Jan.) 

LOVE  HABIT,  THE— British  International. — 
British  conception  of  a  French  bedroom  farce.  Very 
heavy.     (A  pril) 

LOVE  KISS,  THE— Celebrity  Productions.— A 
nice  little  college  comedy  with  plenty  of  romance 
and  laughter.     (March) 

MADONNA  OF  THE  STREETS— Columbia.— 
Evelyn  Brent  triumphs  over  the  old  yarn  about  the 
regeneration  of  a  lady  crook.    (Feb.) 

•  MALTESE  FALCON,  THE  —  Warners.  — 
Gripping  mystery  story  from  the  novel  by  the 
same  name.  The  sleek  Ricardo  Cortez  plays  the 
demon  detective  superbly  and  Bebe  Daniels  does  ex- 
cellent work.     Don't  miss  it.     (June) 

MAN  FROM  CHICAGO,  THE— Elstree  Pro- 
ductions.— The  British  go  hay-wire  on  this  story  of 
Chicago  gangsters  and  their  ladies.  Skip  this  one. 
(March) 

MAN  OF  THE  WORLD— Paramount.— Good 
picture;  not  much  action  but  plenty  of  drama  and  a 
great  performance  by  William  Powell.  Carole  Lom- 
bard is  the  lovely  heroine.    (May) 


MAN  WHO  CAME  BACK,  THE— Fox.— Farrell 
and  Gaynor  sink  to  the  depths,  but  love  reforms 
them.  Not  a  "7th  Heaven"  but  worth  seeing. 
(March) 

MANY  A  SLIP — Universal. — Joan  Bennett  and 
Lew  Ayres  in  a  wise-cracking  dialogue  comedy.  You 
may,  but  you  probably  won't,  like  it.     (March) 

MEET  THE  WIFE— Columbia.— Lew  Cody  and 
Laura  La  Plante  excellent  in  a  hilarious  farce  taken 
from  the  old  stage  play.     Plenty  of  laughs.     (June) 

MEN  CALL  IT  LOVE— M-G-M.—  (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Among  the  Married.")  Sophisticated 
story  of  married  life  in  the  country  club  set.  Adolphe 
Menjou  excellent.  Norman  Foster  and  Leila  Hyams 
good  as  the  young  lovers.  Not  for  the  children.  (A  pril) 

MEN  ON  CALL— Fox.— Edmund  Lowe  wastes 
his  time  and  talents  in  a  bad  story.     (March) 

MEN  WITHOUT  LAW— Columbia.— Buck  Jones 
performs  his  Western  heroics  in  an  interesting  Span- 
ish locale  and  wins  the  beautiful  Carmelita  Geraghty. 
(Feb.) 

MIDNIGHT  SPECIAL,  THE— C hesterfield  Prod. 
— Nothing  new,  but  plenty  of  excitement.  Good  for 
the  kids.     (April) 

MILLIE  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Helen  Twelvetrees 
splendid  in  this  tense  drama.  Enough  tears  and 
chuckles  to  make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March) 


Producer  Announcements 

ofj\ew  Pictures 

and  Stars 

While  all  good  advertising  is  news, 
we  consider  producer  advertising 
of  particular  interest  to  our  read' 
ers.  With  this  directory  you  easily 
can  locate  each  announcement: 

First  National  Pictures  . .  Page  1 1 

Fox  Films Page  9 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer..Page  90 
Paramount  Pictures  .  .  .  Page  4 

Radio  Pictures Page  101 

United  Artists Page  99 

Warner  Bros Page  7 


•  MILLIONAIRE,  THE— Warners.— George 
Arliss — need  we  say  more?  This  time  he  plays 
a  wealthy  American  automobile  manufacturer.  Eva- 
lyn  Knapp  is  the  attractive  daughter  and  David 
Manners,  the  business  partner.    See  it.    (May) 

•  MOTHER'S  MILLIONS— Liberty  Prod.— 
Humor,  pathos,  bright  dialogue  and  splendid 
acting  make  this  a  delightfully  entertaining  story. 
May  Robson  is  the  mother.     (April) 

MR.  LEMON  OF  ORANGE— Fox— El  Brendel, 
starring,  in  some  mistaken  identity  stuff.  Riotously 
funny  in  spots,  and  Fifi  Dorsay  helps  a  lot.      (May) 

MURDER — British  International. — Smart  and 
entertaining  mystery  drama  with  a  travelling  stock 
company  as  the  background  and  a  first-rate  amateur 
detective.     (Jan.) 

MY  PAST — Warners. — (Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Ex-Mistress.")  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bebe  Daniels — par- 
don! The  Ben  Lyonses  in  an  ultra-modern  love 
story  which  is  highly  entertaining.     (Feb.) 

NEVER  THE  TWAIN  SHALL  MEET— M-G-M. 

— Lavishly  produced  remake  of  the  old  silent,  but 
not  nearly  so  good.  Leslie  Howard  great  in  some 
scenes.     (Ju;;e) 


•  NEW  MOON— M-G-M.— Music  of  the  drama 
first  rate,  with  the  greatest  singing  combina- 
tion on  the  screen.  Metropolitan  Opera's  Lawrence 
Tibbett  and  Grace  Moore.  Color,  drama,  beauty, 
melody  combine  in  a  real  musical  smash.     (Jan.) 

NIGHT  BIRDS  —  British  International.  — 
Mystery  melodrama,  with  much  a-do  over  a  killing. 
Not  so  bad.     (March) 

NO  LIMIT — Paramount. — Clara  Bow  as  a  flapper, 
an  usherette  and  a  gangster's  moll,  and  wearing 
some  amazing  clothes.  You  may  be  amused. 
(March) 

NOT   EXACTLY   GENTLEMEN— Fox.— Three 

men's  battles  for  a  map,  a  girl  (Fay  Wray)  and 
riches.  Top-notch  entertainment.  Victor  McLaglen, 
Lew  Cody  and  Eddie  Gribbon  share  acting  honors. 
(April) 

OH,  FOR  A  MAN!— Fox.— A  bright  and  merry 
farce  about  a  grand  opera  star  who  loves  a  burglar. 
Reginald  Denny's  the  burglar,  and  Jeanette  Mac- 
Donald  is  the  song-bird  who  falls  for  him.     (Jan.) 

ONCE  A  SINNER— Fox.— The  oldest  type  of 
triangle  story.  The  really  fine  performances  of 
Dorothy  Mackaill,  Joel  McCrea  and  John  Halliday 
make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March) 

ONLY  SAPS  WORK— Paramount.— Mr.  Leon 
Errol  and  his  trick  legs  stagger  away  with  this  comedy 
about  lovers  and  thieves.    (Feb.) 

PAGLIACCI— Audio  Cinema  Prod.— Bad  grand 
opera  poorly  transferred  to  the  screen.    (May) 

•  PAID— M-G-M. — (Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Within  the  Law.") — Just  wait  until  you  see 
Joan  Crawford  in  this  powerful  dramatic  rdle !  The 
story  is  absorbing  and  Joan  is  simply  grand.    (Jan.) 

PAINTED  DESERT,  THE— Pathe— A  Western 
which  you'll  like.  Bill  Boyd  is  the  virile  hero  and 
Helen  Twelvetrees  the  girl.     (March) 

•  PARLOR,  BEDROOM  AND  BATH— 
M-G-M. — It's  a  howl,  this  farce.  Buster  Kea- 
ton  and  Charlotte  Greenwood  race'for  honors.  As  a 
heavy  lover,  Buster  is  amazing.     (April) 

PART  TIME  WIFE— Fox.— Hokum,  but  enter- 
taining. Eddie  Lowe  makes  grand  work  of  a  funny 
role  and  little  Tommy  "Song  o'  My  Heart"  Clifford 
isa  natural.      (Jan.) 

PARTY  HUSBAND— First  National.— Dorothy 
Mackaill  and  James  Rennie  work  hard  as  the  newly- 
weds,  but  the  story  is  weak.     (June) 

PASSION  FLOWER— M-G-M.— Charles  Bick- 
ford,  Kay  Johnson  and  Kay  Francis  form  the  good 
old  eternal  triangle.  Interesting  people  in  a  good 
film.     (Jan.) 

PHANTOM  OF  THE  DESERT,  THE— Syndi- 
cate.— Jack  Perrin  in  a  true-to-type  Western.  Plenty 
of  hard  ridin'  and  fast  shootin'.    (Feb.) 

PINCHOT'S  SOUTH  SEA  CRUISE— Travel- 
Epics. — The  ex-governor  of  Pennsylvania  took  some 
interesting  pictures  of  a  South  Seas  cruise.  No  studio 
faking  in  this  one.     (Jan.) 

PRINCESS  AND  THE  PLUMBER,  THE— Fox. 

— A  young  American  millionaire  (Charles  Farrell) 
and  a  beautiful  princess  (Maureen  O'Sullivan).  You 
know  what  happens — a  harmless  little  light  comedy. 
(Feb.) 

PUBLIC  ENEMY,  THE— Warners.— A  gangster 
picture  that  is  lining  the  thrill-seekers  up  at  the  box- 
office.     (June) 

•  QUICK  MILLIONS  —  Fox.  —  Another  excel- 
lent gangster  picture  if  you  go  for  them.  Spen- 
cer Tracy  is  the  leader  of  the  racketeers,  and  you'll 
like  Sally  Eilers.     (June) 

RANGO — Paramount. — A  stirring  jungle  picture 
with  a  real  story.  Magnificent.  Different.  Don't 
mistake  it  for  "just  another  wild  animal  picture." 
(Feb.) 

REACHING  FOR  THE  MOON— United  Art- 
ists.— Doug  Fairbanks  bounds  through  a  dizzy  com- 
edy as  a  go-getting  stock  broker.  Different  for  Doug 
and  very  merry.  Bebe  Daniels  is  the  big  romance. 
(Feb.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  128  ] 


16 


1'hotoplay  Magazine  fok  July,  1931 


»7 


New  discovery!  Pepsodent  Antiseptic  3  to  11* 

times  more  powerful  than  other  leading  mouth 

antiseptics  ! !  Checks  bad  breath  longer ! ! ! 


AGAIN  science  discovers  something  new. 
i\  This  time  a  recent  and  sensational  ad- 
vance is  made  in  the  field  of  deadly  bacteria. 
A  revolutionary  mouth  wash  has  been  devel- 
oped that  is  3  to  11*  times  more  powerful  in 
killing  germs  than  many  other  leading 
mouth  antiseptics. 

This  is  the  unqualified  and  official  opinion 
of  great  bacteriological  laboratories,  and  of 
individual  scientists  who  have  made  exten- 
sive tests  with  its  new  discovery. 

From  Pepsodent  laboratories 

This  remarkable  discovery  is  a  new  and 
powerful  weapon  in  fighting  germs.  It  com- 
bats, immediately,  the  social  evil  of  bad 
breath. 

The  formula  comes  from  the  Pepsodent 
tooth  paste  laboratories,  whose  contribution 
to  dental  hygiene  has  won  high  recognition. 
Under  the  label  of  Pepsodent  Antiseptic 
Mouth  Wash  it  is  being  widely  distributed 
in  the  public  interest. 

Cleanses — purifies  the  mouth 

The  active  agent  used  in  Pepsodent  Mouth 
Wash,  as  determined  by  standard  tests,  is 
many  times  more  potent  than  pure  carbolic 
acid,  for  all  time  the   standard  germicide. 


Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  is  non-poisonous, 
safe  and  soothing. 

Immediately  after  you  use  it,  95%  of  the 
germs  in  the  mouth  are  destroyed.  Their 
number  is  still  reduced  70%  at  the  end  of 
two  hours'  time  —  that  is  far  longer  acting 
than  many  other  leading  mouth  washes. 

"We  find,"  states  one  laboratory,  "Pepso- 
dent Mouth  Wash  kills  the  stubborn  pus- 
producing  germs  (M.  Aureus)  in  the  fastest 
time  it  is  possible  for  science  to  record — we 
believe  faster  than  has  previously  been  the 
standard  for  other  mouth  washes." 


Checks  bad  breath 

With  this  revolutionary  discovery 
comes  a  social  safeguard:  remarkable 
protection  against  offensive  breath.  A 
laboratory  director  states:  "Tests 
prove  conclusively  that  Pepsodent 
Mouth  Wash  overcomes  bad  breath 
1  to  2  hours  longer  than  many  other 
leading  antiseptic  mouth  washes." 

At  your  druggist's— today 

Your  druggist  has  just  received  this 
new  discovery.  Go  today  and  get  a 
bottle.  Secure  this  added  protection  to 
your  family's  health  plus  the  greater 
assurance  of  a  pure,  sweet  breath. 


Consult  Your 
Dentist,  Physician 

In  the  opinion  of  some  author- 
ities, most  breath  odors  come 
from  such  minor  causes  as  neg- 
lected, unclean  mouth;  tooth 
decay;  slight  infections  of  nose 
and  throat;  excessive  smoking. 
If  after  using  Pepsodent  Mouth 
Wash  bad  breath  persists  in 
returning,  seek  medical  and 
dental  advice  to  remove  the 
cause. 


■^Pepsodent  Mouth  Wash  is 
highly  antiseptic  when  di- 
luted with  several  parts  of 
water.  Hence  it  goes  many 
times  as  far  as  many  mouth 
washes  which  must  be  used 
FULL  STRENGTH  to  be 
effective. 

COSTS   MUCH   LESS 


Pepsodent  Antiseptic  Mouth  Wash 

A  revolutionary  mouth  wash  just  discovered  by  the  Pepsodent  tooth  paste  laboratories 


H 


ow 


ave  a 


toH 


Beautiful 

Vacation 


Frances  Dee  seems  to  be  well  poised 
here!  Probably  because  she's  so 
comfortably  dressed  for  vacationing 


HOW  often  a  returned  vacationist  exclaims,  "I  had  a 
perfectly  beautiful  time."  Yet,  when  you  look  at  her 
sunburned  nose  in  that  sad  state  of  peeling,  her  com- 
plexion actually  leathered  by  too  much  exposure  to 
sun  and  wind,  and  her  hair  faded  a  slightly  perceptible  shade 
lighter,  you  are  tempted  to  ask  to  just  what  the  "beautiful" 
applies! 

I  know  what  a  temptation  it  is  to  let  down  and  to  be  a  bit 
careless  when  you  have  a  chance,  especially,  if  you  have  to  keep 
a  stern  hand  on  your  grooming  all  the  rest  of  the  year.  A  vaca- 
tion, however,  whether  it  is  merely  a  few  days  or  several  weeks, 
is  supposed  to  be  a  beneficial  excursion.  It  should  provide  not 
only  a  change  of  scenery  and  a  gay,  good  time,  but  it  should 
reward  you  with  a  decided  improvement  in  looks. 

Don't  let  it  do  a  damage  that  will  take  weeks  to  rectify  when 
you  return  home.  On  the  other  hand,  I  don't  want  to  give  you 
the  idea  that  you  have  to  spend  your  time  worrying  about  your- 
self. By  a  bit  of  careful  planning,  it  is  very  simple  to  have  a 
"beautiful"  time  in  every  sense  of  the  word. 

When  you  start  packing  your  bags  for  that  week-end  or 
cherished  holiday,  take  an  inventory  of  your  beauty  equipment 
beforehand.  What  will  you  need?  If  you  want  to  acquire  that 
nice,  healthy  looking  tan — put  in  a  bottle  of  some  good  oil  or 
cream  to  protect  the  skin  from  becoming  coarse  or  scaly.  Sun 
tan  is  not  the  fad  it  was  a  year  ago — you  will  find  everyone 
doing  it  in  moderation.  And  a  great  majority  are  actually 
trying  to  avoid  the  burning  rays  of  the  sun.  It  is  always 
wise  to  take  a  good  sunburn  lotion  along  with  you.  A 
powder  foundation  of  cream  will  help  keep  the  skin  smooth  and 
free  from  burn. 

So  many  of  the  prominent  beauty  houses  are  offering  com- 


plete kits  of  your  favorite  cosmetics  for  vacation  trips.  These 
are  attractively  packed  so  that  you  can  keep  bottles  and  jars 
together  without  either  the  inconvenience  of  spilhng  their  con- 
tents or  futile  searching  about  among  things  in  your  bag. 
Even  if  you  do  not  want  to  go  to  the  expense  of  one  of  these, 
they  offer  a  good  tip  for  packing  your  own  cosmetics.  Just  pack 
all  your  toiletries  in  a  good-sized  box,  well  wrapped  in  tissue 
paper  or  cotton. 

Vacations  hold  such  thrilling  possibilities,  don't  they?  New 
people  to  meet,  new  places  to  see — and  always  the  promise  of 
romance  just  around  the  corner!  Could  there  be  more  reasons 
why  it  is  important  to  look  one's  best? 

Faithfully  keeping  up  your  beauty  schedule  is  not  the  only 
thing  you  must  do.  There  are  clothes.  And  how  important 
they  are!  As  soon  as  you  decide  where  you  are  going,  you  must 
consider  what  clothes  will  be  suitable  to  take  with  you. 

I  THINK  we  are  all  unusually  fortunate  this  year.  Vacation 
clothes  are  so  simple  and  inexpensive.  With  colored  acces- 
sories so  smart,  you  can  make  one  little  tennis  frock  look  like 
several  by  merely  changing  your  color  scheme!  Don't  forget 
that  comfort  is  of  first  importance  in  choosing  vacation  clothes. 
Is  there  any  sillier  sight  than  to  see  someone  in  the  country 
teetering  about  on  high  heels  ?  Or  to  see  a  long,  trailing  skirt 
when  everyone  else  is  wearing  short  sports  things? 

Unless  you  are  going  to  a  resort  where  dressing  is  more  im- 
portant than  sports,  I  suggest  that  you  pack  your  bags  full  of 
simple  sports  clothes.  People  have  become  sensible  about 
vacations.  They  no  longer  strive  to  make  an  impression;  in- 
stead, they  wear  good  looking  clothes  that  are  comfortable  and 
wearable.  [  please  turn  to  page  96  ] 


Friendly  Advice  on  Girls'  Problems 

DOES  Summer  seem  to  aggravate  your  beauty  problems?  Would  you  like  to  be  slimmer? 
Does  your  complexion  need  some  helpful  treatments? 

Then  send  a  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope  for  my  booklet  of  normalizing  exercises 
and  reducing  menus.  Also  for  my  complexion  leaflet,  giving  general  advice  on  the  care  of 
the  skin  and  specific  treatment  for  blackheads  and  acne.  You  may  have  both,  simply  by 
asking  for  them. 

But  don't  forget  to  enclose  the  envelope  and  be  sure  to  address  me  at  PHOTOPLAY,  221 
West  57th  Street,  New  York  City.  If  you  want  other  personal  advice  about  your  hair,  the 
correct  colors  for  your  type,  the  right  shades  in  cosmetics — I'll  be  glad  to  mail  back  a  personal 
letter  of  advice  in  the  envelope  you  send  me. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


18 


1   HUIUI'LAY      IVlAOAZlNii     tUK     JULY,      17,51 


Wollywood's  Wlafa'Up  Kjenius 

Discovers  a  NEW  Type  . . . 

Browne tte 

and  tells  her  Secret  of 

Make-Up 

Are  you  of  this  distinctive 
type  .  .  .  not  Blonde,  not 
Brunette,   not    Redhead  ? 


Discover  how  the  magic  of  make-up  in 
color  harmony  for  your  type,  as  created  by 
Max  Factor  for  famous  screen  stars,  will 
bring  you  new  fascination ,  new  beauty,  new 
personality.    Mail  coupon. 

FROM  HOLLYWOOD,  comes  the  most  important  beauty  news 
in  years  for  girls  and  women  who  are  brownettes  .  .  .  neither 
blondes  nor  brunettes,  but  a  distinct  type  named  "Brownette"  by 
Max  Factor,  creator  of  make-up  for  Hollywood's  studios  and  stars. 

"The  real  secret  of  beauty  in  make-up,  the  keynote  of  alluring 
personality,  is  correct  color  harmony  for  the  individual  type",  says 
Max  Factor.  "No  longer  will  cosmetics  produced  for  the  general 
classifications  of  blonde  and  brunette  satisfy  beauty's  needs.  There 
are  titians  .  .  .  brownettes  .  .  .  and  many  variations  of  each  type 
Each  subtle  variation  must  be  considered  .  .  .  the  color  harmony  in 
the  make-up  ensemble  .  .  .  the  powder,  rouge,  lipstick,  eye-shadow 
and  other  requisites  ...  to  be  true  to  type,  to  bring  out  personality 
as  well  as  fascinating  beauty." 

This  is  the  magic  beauty  secret  which  Max  Factor  has  given  to 
the  stars  of  the  screen  .  .  .  and  which  he  now  offers  to  you  in  a 
new  kind  of  make-up  for  everyday. 

Scores  and  scores  of  feature  pictures  .  .  .  millions  of  feet  of  film 
.  .  .  depicting  the  entrancing  beauty  of  Hollywood's  famous  stars, 
have  revealed  to  you  the  magic  of  make-up  by  Max  Factor.  Now 
it  is  within  your  reach. 

So  whatever  your  type  .  . .  discover  now  what  Hollywood  knows 
about  make-up.  Discover  the  one  way  to  actually  double  your 
beauty  and  vividly  emphasize  the  allure  and  magnetism  of  your 
personality.  Permit  Max  Factor  to  create  for  you,  as  he  has  for  the  famous 
stars  of  the  screen,  your  own  individual  color  harmony  for  day  and  for  eve- 
ning in  Society  Make-Up.  Mail  coupon  now  and  also  receive  copy  of 
Max    Factor's  book,  "The  New  Art  of  Society  Make-Up." 

MAX  FACTOR'S  Society  MAKE-UP 

"Cosmetics  of  the  Stars" .  .  .  HOLLYWOOD 

96%  of  all  mjke-up  including  Technicolor  used  by  Hollywood  Screen  Surs  and  Sludios  is  Max  Factor's. 

(L>i  Ange/ej  Chamber  tf  Comment  Simiiim)  ©  >9JO  '"•"  FstUr 


DOROTHY 
JORDAN 

in  M-G-M' s"  Mm  &  Bill" 
Dorothy  Jordan,  tpyical 
brownette,  says  :  "  Perfect  make- 
up, perfect  harmony  of  color  in 
fender,    rouge,   lipstick    and 
other  requisites,  is  something  a 
screen  star  must  be  assured  of 
at  all  times.  That  is  why  I 
use  Max  Factor's 
exclusively." 


RAQUEL 

TORRES,   f 
M-G-M,  with 
Max  Factor,  Holly- 
wood's Make-Up 
Genius,  using  the  cor- 
rect color  harmony 
tone  in  rouge 

BLONDES 


Leila  HyamSy 

Blonde 

M-G-M 


BRUNETTES  . . . 

REDHEADS... 

No  one  color  in  powder,  or 
rouge,  or  lipstick,  or  eyeshadow 
may  be  worn  by  each  type  be- 
comingly ...  for  complexion  col- 
orings differ  even  in  the  same 
type,  and  make-up  must  be  in  color 
harmony  with  the  individual  to 
magnify  beauty. 

Mail  coupon  to  Max  Factor, 
Hollywood's  Make-Up  Genius, 
for  your  own  complexion  analysis 
and  make-up  color  harmony  chart. 

"I 

'  Dear  Sir:  Send  me  a  complimentary  copy  of  your  46-page  book,  Tfcr  Srw  An  1 
'  of So<tety  MaktUp",  personal  complexion  analysis  and  make-up  color  harmony  ■ 
I  chart.  I  enclose  10  cents  to  cover  cost 
I  of  postage  and  handling. 

liV<rw 

I  Aid  tew 

J  Of 

I  Stjrr 


Mane  Prevost,  Brownette,  M-G-M 


V    MAIL  FOR   YOUR  COMPLEXION  ANALYSIS 

I  Mr.  Ma«  Factor — Ma*  Factor  Studios,  Hollywood,  Calif.   1-7-36 


COMPLEXION 


H*. 


COLOSLASHrS 


COLO*  tVLS 


......  HAM 


zu 


I'HOTOPLAY    MAGAZINE    FOR   JULY,    19.51 


he   couLxrvi 


BRING    HERSELF    TO   TELL    HIM 


C 

j  he  knew  it  was  coming.  She  knew  it 
\„^/  the  moment  he  suggested  they  sit 
out  the  dance.  There  was  a  suggestion  of  tense- 
ness about  him.  A  determined  look  in  his  eye. 

It  seemed  strange  that  he  was  a  man  now; 
with  a  man's  seriousness.  She  remembered 
how,  as  early  as  grammar  school  days,  he  wore 
an  air  of  perpetual  joviality.  Even  when  he 
played  quarter  for  Central  High  School  and  was 
floored  by  bone-breaking  tackles,  he  always 
came  up  with  a  laughing  manner,  suggesting 
that  the  matter  was  a  grand  joke.  He  carried 
t  hat  manner  through  his  football  days  at  Michi- 
gan. But  now  there  was  no  trace  of  it. 

"I  can't  stand  it  any  longer,  Wilma,"  he 
blurted  out,  "the  way  you've  been  treating  me 
the  last  few  months  .  .  ." 

"What  do  you  mean  —  the  way  I've  been 
treating  you?" 

"You  know — avoiding  me.. .breaking  en- 
gagements. It  has  just  about  floored  me,  and 
Wilma,  you  know  I"m  crazy  about  you.  Have 
been  for  ten  years.  I  can't  go  on  this  way  any 
longer.  Why  don't  you  marry  me  . . .  put  me 
out  of  my  misery?" 

He  rushed  into  an  excited  exposition  of  how 
happy  they  could  be  together.  When  it  was 
over  she  slowly  shook  her  head. 

"Don't  you  care  for  me?"  he  begged. 

"You  know  I  do,  Ross  Temple." 

Down  in  her  heart  she  knew  that  she  was 
fonder  of  him  than  any  man  she  had  ever 
met.  And  yet  .  .  . 

"Then  why?"  he  demanded  fiercely.  "Do 
you  think  I'll  make  a  fool  of  myself  with 
father's  money?" 

She  shook  her  head.  "You  might  have  done 
that  once  —  but  not  now.  You're  no  simpleton, 
Ross." 

She  really  admired  him  for  the  success  he 
had  made  by  his  own  efforts.  She  could  count 
on  the  fingers  of  one  hand,  the  men  in  town 
who  were  earning  what  he  earned. 

He  leaned  toward  her,  almost  pathetically. 
"Is  there  someone  else?  Is  that  fellow  in  New 
York...?" 

"Don't  be  ridiculous!" 

He  turned  on  her  again  as  if  he  would  shake 
her.  "Then  why?  Give  me  some  reason.  Don't 
sit  there  shaking  your  head.  What's  wrong? 
What  have  I  done?  I  can  stand  the  truth." 

She  wanted  to  tell  him.  It  was  only  fair  that 
he  should  know.  She  wanted  to  say  to  him — 
"Go  and  rid  yourself  of  the  barrier  that  so  re- 
cently has  risen  between  us,  then  come  back  to 
me."  She  even  wanted  to  name  that  barrier,  but 
she  couldn't  bring  herself  to  do  it.  No  woman 
could. 


Halitosis  (unpleasant  breath)  is  the  one  un- 
forgivable social  fault. 

The  insidious  thing  about  it  is  that  you  your- 
self never  know  when  you  have  it. 
And  even  your  best  friend  won't  tell 
you.  It  is  a  matter  that  can't  be  talked 
about. 

Are  you  sure  about  yourself? 

Fewescapehalitosisentirely,because 
every  day  in  normal  mouths,  condi- 
tions that  cause  unpleasant  breath 
may  arise  or  are  present. 

Its  commonest  cause  is  ferment- 


ing food  particles  in  the  mouth.  Other  com- 
mon causes  are:  Decaying  or  poorly  cared  for 
teeth.  Excesses  of  eating,  drinking,  or  smok- 
ing. Infections  of  the  oral  tract,  such  as 
catarrh,  colds,  trench  mouth,  and  pyorrhea. 
The  one  way  to  put  your  breath  beyond 
suspicion  is  to  rinse  the  mouth  with  full 
strength  Listerine.  Every  morning.  Every 
night.  And  between  times  before  meeting 
others. 

Why  Listerine  deodorizes 

Because  of  its  amazing  germicidal 
power,  Listerine  halts  fermentation 
and  checks  infection,  both  a  major 
cause  of  odors.  Then  it  destroys  the 


odors  themselves. 

Listerine's  astonishing  antiseptic  and  de- 
odorizing power  has  been  a  matter  of  record  in 
great  hospitals  and  private  practice  for  half  a 
century.  There  is  no  scientific  evidence  that  any 
antiseptic  possesses  greater  deodorant  power 
than  Listerine. 

Even  the  onion  yields 

You  know  yourself  that  there  are  few  more 
arrogant  odors  than  onion  and  fish.  Yet  Lister- 
ine makes  short  work  of  them.  Try  it  yourself 
some  time.  Rub  a  little  onion  or  fish  on  your 
hand.  Then  apply  Listerine  and  see  how  quick- 
ly such  odors  disappear.  Lambert  Pharmacal 
Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  U.  S.  A. 


-and  &uea  ike  ONION  i^JjdcU  lo  ii  ! 


INA  CLAIRE,  still  Mrs.  Jack  Gilbert,  made  movie  magnates 
pay  for  turning  her  down  two  years  ago.  They  bought  up  her 
contract,  yet  as  a  result  of  "The  Royal  Family"  she's  back  with 
a  five-year  contract  at  double  and  triple  her  old  salary.  You'll 
see  her  soon  in  "Rebound" 


ANY  star  who  can  make  an  old'fashioned  melodrama  like 
"East  Lynne"  thrill  this  modern  public  and  turn  that 
venerable  old  costume  vehicle  into  a  box-office  success  is  an 
actress.  Ladies  and  gentlemen,  meet  Ann  Harding — Mrs.  Harry 
Bannister,  if  you  please 


JUST  as  the  screen  decides  to  discard  ingenues,  as  they  call 
the  little  persecuted  heroines,  along  comes  Helen  Twelvetrees 
and  knocks  the  box-office  for  a  whopping  profit  in  "Her  Man" 
and  "Millie."  Selected  as  a  "Baby  Star"  in  1929,  she  succeeded 
despite  the  prediction 


JACKIE  (SKIPPT)  COOPER,  caught  by  the  camera  at  a 
time  when  he  wanted  to  join  the  other  kids  on  the  studio  lot 
playing  baseball.  "I  don'  wanna  pose  for  any  pitchers  today," 
he  told  the  photographer.  "Gee,  won't  you  ever  give  a  fellow 
a  rest?    This  acting  business  is  the  bunk" 


uirinwi^ 


yet  your  powder  clings,  rouge  stays  on 
and  you  look  ALWAYS  LOVELY 


Summer  .  .  .  with  old  ocean  beckoning  down 
the  white  sands  .  .  .  limpid  lakes  mirroring 
forth  joy  .  .  .  slim  young  bodies  flashing  into 
caressing  waters.  Summer  .  .  .  calling  you  to  a 
thousand  activities  .  .  .  whispering  of  romance 
in  night  silence  .  .  .  thrilling  you  with  the  joy 
of  living  every  golden  hour  intensely. 

Ah,  yes!  But  there  must  be  no  pale  cheeks 
after  the  swim  ...  no  overflushed  appearance 
of  exertion  'neath  the  sun's  ardors  ...  no  shiny 
nose.  You  must  remain  serenely,  coolly  beau- 
tiful under  all  conditions  to  fully  enjoy 
summer  .  .  . 

"Summer  -  Proof"  Make-Up.  —  Princess  Pat 
beauty  aids,  if  used  together,  give  a  summer- 
proof  make-up.  You  can  actually  go  in  swim- 
ming and  come  out  with  color  perfect  ■ —  or 
dance  through  the  evening  secure  in  the 
knowledge  that  one  application  of  make-up  is 
sufficient  for  lasting  beauty. 

For  make-up  that  will  last  under  trying  con- 
ditions you  first  apply  Princess  Pat  Ice  Astrin- 
gent —  just  as  you  would  ordinary  vanishing 


cream.  Only,  you  see.  Ice  Astringent  gives 
the  skin  lasting  coolness,  contracts  the  pores 
and  makes  the  skin  of  fine,  beautiful  texture. 
After  Ice  Astringent,  apply  Princess  Pat  rouge 
for  color  which  moisture  will  not  affect.  Then 
use  Princess  Pat  almond  base  powder  —  the 
most  clinging  powder  ever  made  —  and  one 
which  gives  beautiful,  pearly  lustre.  And,  of 
course,  Princess  Pat  wonderful  new  Up  rouge! 

Now  in  the  Brilliant  Week  End  Set.— This  is 
really  a  sparkling,  .wonder- value    "acquaint- 
ance" set  —  enough  of  each  preparation  for 
two  weeks'  use  —  to 
last  throughout  your 
vacation.  Also  a  per- 
fectly  wonderful 
Ijeauty  book  of  sum- 
mer make-up  secrets 
and  special  summer 
care  to  keep  the  skin 
lovely.  In  the  Week 
End  Set  you  will  re- 
ceive generous  tubes 
of   Ice   Astringent, 

»• 


PRINCESS   PAT 

CHICAGO,  U.  S.  A.    (IN  CANADA,  93  CHURCH  ST..  TORONTO) 


Skin  Cleanser  (the  modern  cold  cream),  Skin 
Food  Cream,  almond  base  Powder,  Rouge  ami 
Lip  Rouge.  The  charge  of  25c  pays  only  for 
packaging  the  set  in  its  beautiful  lx>x,  and  for 
postage.  Consequently  we  desire  to  sell  only 
one  set  to  a  customer.  And  we  res|>octfiilly 
urge  your  promptness. 

Be  Your  Most  Beautiful  "Summer  Self".  All 
fragrant  and  beautiful  —  all  charming — all 
serenely  perfect.  That  should  be  your  "sum- 
mer self."  The  Week  End  Set  will  bring  'Ins 
loveliness  unfailingly. 

get  this  Week  End 

Set-  SPECIAL 

The  very  popular  Princes*  Pat  HVrJt  End  Set 
for  tnit  COUPON  and  iSc  leoim.  Easily  a 
mnnth's  supply  of  almond  bate  poicder  and 
FIVE  OUter  delightful  I'rUieesi  Pal  prepara- 
tions.   Beautifully  dteoraled  boudoir  box . 


PRINCESS  PAT.  2709  S    Wills  SI   .  (  ti: 

Dept.  A-I.SR7.    Enclosed  find  25c  for  which  send 

me  the  Princess  Pat  Week  Knd  M 

Name  (print) 

strew      

City  and  State      


A 


is  the  trio 


DORATION  15  the  tribute 


•       • 


jj 


men  PaY  to  femininity 


says 

DOROTHY 
DIX 


HAVE  never  known   a  man  yet 

-I-  who  didn't  adore  the  quality  we 
call  femininity. 

"  It  makes  a  woman  seem  precious 
and  mysterious  to  men — yet  it's  not 
mysterious,  really.  If  you  yourself/^/ 
feminine  and  charming,  men  find  you  so. 

"One  of  the  clever  ways  of  feeling 
feminine  is  to  wear  feminine  under- 
things.  The  charming  colors,  the  soft 
touch  of  the  fragile  silks  and  laces,  all 
give  you  a  sense  of  femininity  that  is 
magically  contagious. 

"I  often  repeat  these  2  simple  rules: 

1.  Wear  colorful,  lacy  lingerie. 

2.  Keep  it  exquisitely  new  with  Lux. 

"  I  say  Lux  because  it's  made  especially  to 
preserve  color  and  charm.  Ordinary  soaps, 
even  the  'good'  ones,  too  often  dim  colors, 
spoil  lustre  and  finish.  But  with  Lux,  lovely 
things  stay  new,  retain  their  enchantment, 
for  months  and  even  years! 

"And  remember,  too,  that  your  sur- 
roundings can  also  cast  a  glamorous  spell 
about  your  personality.  So  cherish  the 
daintiness  of  draperies,  slip  covers,  sofa 
cushions,  table  linens — keep  them  all  color- 
fresh  and  new  with  ^ZZT  ^~j/'  ' 
Lux." 


r^y 


'  eminimty 


Peach  satin  lingerie  washed  12  times 
in  Lux — all  its  exquisite  beauty  of 
color  and  texture  retained.  Just  as 
colorful  and  charming  as  new! 


Duplicate  lingerie  washed  12  times 
in  ordinary  'good'  soap — the  charm- 
ing color  faded  and  drab,  lustre  gone, 
lace  and  satin  damaged.  Unattractive! 


magic  promise  .  .  .  if  it  s  safe  in  water  alone,  it  s  just  as  safe  in  JLU  -A. 


July,  1931 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots 


By 

James  R,  Quirk 


Dear  Charlie: 

I  AM  awfully  sorry  your  European  trip 
was  such  a  disappointment  to  you. 
Things  seem  to  have  broken  wrong  for  you 
from  the  start. 

I  don't  blame  you  for  being  a  good  busi- 
ness man,  but  those  English  film  men  did 
feel  pretty  sore  when  you  pushed  them  to 
the  limit  on  the  price  of  your  film. 

That  made  them  peeved  in  Germany,  too,  where, 
with  all  the  unemployment  and  unrest,  a  million 
marks  seems  an  awful  lot  of  money  to  them  for  the 
rights  to  your  film  in  that  country. 

As  I  figure  it,  that  is  about  a  quarter  of  a  million 
dollars,  and  I  don't  think  they  even  hope  to  get  it 
back. 

Somehow  or  other  they  feel  they  have  to  have  you, 
and  I  suppose  business  is  business  with  you,  and  this 
Brotherhood  of  Man  stuff  is  pleasant  conversation. 


OF  course,  Lita  and  the  income  people  have  made 
quite  a  gouge  in  your  bankroll  in  the  past  few 
years,  but  with  four  or  five  million  dollars  left,  and 
the  possibility  of  doubling  it  on  "City  Lights,"  it 
might  have  been  a  nice  gesture  to  have  given  them 
the  million  laughs  for  less  than  a  million  marks. 
But  it  does  seem  that  even  in  these  difficult  times, 
people  will  dig  down  and  find  the  money  some  place 
to  pay  for  your  pictures.    So  let  'em  pay. 

I  was  awfully  sorry  when  I  heard  that  you  had  to 
disappoint  those  children — the  little  fellows  in  your 
old  Whitechapel  public  school — when  they  all  dressed 
up  to  come  to  meet  you. 

But  then,  I  suppose  Bernard  Shaw  and  those  other 
high-brows  did  hound  you  to  death,  and  at  that  time 
you  were  very  popular  with  the  noble  folk  of  Eng- 
land. 


W; 


VSN'T  it  nice  of  Professor  Einstein 
to  give  you  that  autographed  photo- 
graph after  you  had  spent  an  hour  with  him 
discussing  the  world's  faults  and  troubles? 
"To  Charlie  Chaplin,  the  great  economist." 
he  inscribed  it.  Did  you  watch  the  Pro- 
fessor closely  as  he  wrote  that  inscription? 
Did  you  notice  if  he  had  his  tongue  in  his 
cheek?  Do  you  suppose  the  old  rascal  was 
kidding  you,  Charlie?  You  don't  suppose  he  had 
heard  how  you  gave  Lloyd  George  and  Prime  Minister 
MacDonald  all  that  straight  dope  on  how  to  settle 
England's  problems? 

I  heard  you  got  in  a  little  pet  because  they  did  not 
knight  you,  but  I  know  better  because  you  have  often 
said  you  did  not  want  to  be  knighted. 

It  was  gracious  of  3rou,  however,  to  accept  the 
Legion  of  Honor  from  France.  You  probably  gave 
Mr.  Briand  quite  a  thrill. 


WHAT'S  this  I  hoar  about  you  rejecting  the 
invitation  of  the  King  of  Belgium  to  attend 
the  opening  of  your  picture  in  Brussels?  Did  you 
really  have  a  previous  engagement? 

They  tell  me  that  it  was  quite  embarrassing  when 
that  delegation  from  the  Communists  and  un- 
employed called  on  you  at  the  Adlon  Hotel,  where  the 
Kaiser  used  to  give  his  parties.  and  suggested  that 
you  put  some  of  your  theories  about  the  Brotherhood 
of  Man  into  practice  for  the  relief  of  the  unemployed. 
I  don't  blame  you  for  leaving  town  immediately  after- 
wards. Those  chaps  ask  too  many  impertinent 
questions. 

What's  the  low-down  on  all  this  fuss  about  your 
refusing  to  attend  the  annual  variety  performance 
for  the  indigent  and  unemployed  actors,  which  the 
King  and  Queen  have  honored  with  their  presence  for 
generations?     That  seems  to  have  caused  no  end  of 


talk  and  made  the  British  pretty  sore.  Anyhow,  you 
sent  them  a  check.  It  ought  to  have  pleased  them  to 
get  that  kind  of  an  autograph,  eh  Charlie? 

BY  the  way,  is  the  Duke  of  Connaught,  King 
George's  uncle,  still  peeved  at  you  ?  Nice  old 
chap.  What  if  he  did  wait  an  hour?  Do  those 
fellows  good  to  cool  their  heels  once  in  a  while. 

That  situation  at  Nice  must  have  been  a  laugh. 
You  know,  the  one  where  the  thirty  European  cor- 
respondents came  to  see  you  and  the  hotel  manager 
came  down  to  talk  to  them  instead.  I  can  just  see 
those  fellows  couldn't  get  the  joke  of  it  all,  as  they 
grabbed  their  hats  and  canes  and  yellow  gloves  and 
walked  out  in  a  huff .  Ha!  Ha!  That  was  funny.  You 
certainly  turned  the  tables  on  the  newspaper  boys 
that  time,  Charlie. 

I  have  heard,  though,  that  those  European  journal- 
ists haven't  got  such  a  sense  of  humor. 

Were  you  kidding  those  other  newspaper  fellows 
when  you  said  you  liked  Algiers  and  would  like  to 
live  there?  Now,  wouldn't  you  look  funny  running 
around  in  a  sheet  the  rest  of  your  life! 

Your  pal, 

Jim 


DOUG,  Jr.,  rushed  into  the  story  department  the 
other  day  and  said,  "I've  just  written  a  swell 
yarn.     Want  to  hear  the  plot?" 

Well,  they  didn't  much,  but  they  listened  while 
Doug  told  his  story  in  bare  outline,  giving  it  no  time 
nor  place.  Ten  eminent  story  doctors  listened 
earnestly  and  when  he  was  through  they  all  shook 
their  heads  and  said,  "No,  that  story  isn't  any  good — 
too  episodic,  too  .  .  .  well  ...  it  just  isn't  any 
good." 

Doug  made  his  way  to  the  door  and  stood  with  his 
hand  on  the  knob  while  he  said,  "Well,  somebody 
thought  it  was  good.  The  story  I've  just  told  you, 
gentlemen,  is  the  plot  of  'Hamlet.'  ' 

Doug  believes  that  the  cuts  the  inkwells  left  on 
his  cheek  will  be  healed  by  the  time  you  read  this. 


EXTRA!    They're  going  to  stop  making  gangster 
pictures.     Sure  they  will — when  the  public  quits 
going  to  them. 


PERHAPS  you  have  never  heard  of  Donald  Beaton, 
son  of  WTelford  Beaton,  editor  and  publisher  of 
The  Film  Spectator  of  Hollywood.  You  would  have 
heard  a  lot  of  him  if  he  had  not,  at  the  age  of 
21,  died  an  untimely  death  recently.  A  talented 
chap,  with  a  flair  for  good  writing,  sound  criticism, 
and  clear  thinking,  he  was  building  into  one  of  the 
finest  minds  in  pictures.  Our  sympathy  goes  out  to 
his  parents.  In  what  pitifully  little  time  you  had, 
Donald,  you  earned  our  admiration  for  yourself  and 
your  work. 

2R 


THERE  was  an  evening  of  (to  me)  rare  entertain- 
ment at  The  Art  Centre  of  New  York  recently. 
The  topic  of  the  discussion  was  "What  the  Movies 
Are  Doing  to  Our  Architectural  Consciousness." 
There's  a  box-office  title  for  you. 

A  group  of  serious  art-minded  folks,  several  hundred 
of  them,  gathered  to  hear  a  studio  art  director  answer 
the  charge  of  architectural  bad  taste  in  motion 
pictures,  and  they  went  after  him  like  a  committee  of 
the  Woman's  Christian  Temperance  Union  putting  a 
bootlegger  on  the  spot. 

The  art  director  was  explaining  why,  in  talkies,  it 
is  impossible  to  build  in  ceilings  on  the  sets  because 
they  interfere  with  the  acoustics  and  the  free  move- 
ment of  the  cameras  and  microphones.  For  instance, 
he  said,  they  once  built  a  ceiling  and  Ernst  Lubitsch, 
the  director,  ordered  it  out. 

"May  I  ask  who  this  Lubitsch  person  is?"  asked 
one  of  the  discussers,  "and  may  I  ask  what  was  his 
architectural  training  that  justified  him  in  ordering 
it  removed?" 

T  went  on  like  that  for  hours. 

And  all  the  time  a  dignified  old  chap  in  evening 
clothes  kept  leaning  over  to  me,  utterly  regardless  of 
the  discussion  on  art.  He  wanted  to  know  if  Mary 
and  Doug  were  really  going  to  separate.  He  wanted 
to  argue  that  Greta  Garbo  was  a  much  finer  actress 
than  Marlene  Dietrich.  He  volunteered  that  Joan 
Crawford  was  his  favorite  actress,  and  asked  why  he 
didn't  see  more  of  Anita  Page. 

He  was  one  of  America's  foremost  architects. 

HE    was   particularly    interested   in   the   marital 
future  of  Mary  and  Doug,  neither  of  whom  he 
had  ever  met  and  both  of  whom  he  admired. 

"Well,  it's  too  bad  if  they  ever  separate,"  he  said, 
"but  it  is  their  business,  anyhow.  Folks  who  have 
lived  their  married  lives  in  the  spotlight  for  ten  years, 
as  they  have,  seem  to  have  done  pretty  well  to  stay 
together  that  long,  and  I'm  for  both  of  them  what- 
ever they  do." 

THE  old  chap  put  the  whole  situation  pretty  well. 
Doug  and  Mary  are  genuinely  fond  of  each  other, 
and,  what's  more,  have  the  utmost  respect  for  each 
other.  The  white  flame  of  love  cannot  burn  at  full 
intensity  year  after  year  in  Hollywood,  any  more 
than  it  can  in  the  quiet  precincts  of  Kansas.  Let's 
hope  that  in  Europe  they  are  permitted  to  have  a  little 
moonlight  together,  instead  of  the  torturing  glare 
of  the  front  page  spotlights. 

PLEASE!  Please!  Mr.  Producers.  Can't  we  see 
Jean  Harlow  as  anything  but  a  gangster's  sweet- 
heart or  a  slithering  seductress?  And  wouldn't  her 
parts  get  over  just  as  well  if  she  wore  a  few  more 
clothes?  She  always  looks  like  a  picture  from  one  of 
those  phony  "art"  magazines  that  are  barred  from 
the  newsstands  in  some  cities. 


"Sadder/ 

Miss  Lombard, 

Sadder/" 


A  ND  at  this  command  all  of  the  blonde 
loveliness  of  Carole  takes  on  an  appeal- 
ing wistfulness  as  the  lights  and  camera 
bear  down  on  her  for  this  stunning  close-up. 
You'll  see  it  in  "I  Take  This  Woman,"  in 
which  she  appears  opposite  Gary  Cooper 


29 


Charlie's  been  having 
microphone  trouble.  This 
fighting  look  you  saw  on  his 
face  in  "Body  and  Soul"  is 
just  a  reflection  of  the  way 
he  is  tackling  the  problem. 
After  a  honeymooning 
absence  from  the  screen, 
young  Mr.  Farrell  is  out  to 
prove  to  the  world  that  he 
is  a  star  in  his  own  name 


Charlie  Has  To  Fig-ht/ 


MILLIONS   of   words   about  **  V     ^  ^  °  ^ 

Charlie   Farrell  have  thun- 
dered and  tinkled  over  the  typewriters  of  the  nation 
in  the  past  few  months. 

His  tender  romance  with  Janet  Gaynor,  his  happy  marriage 
with  Virginia  Valli,  his  honeymoon  rambles  in  Italy — all  have 
been  bathed  in  adjectives  and  dried  with  the  turkish  towel  of 
adequate  publicity. 

What  the  word-mongers  haven 7  said,  in  all  the  mooning  about 
his  love-life,  is  that  Charles  Farrell,  the  wedding  trip  over  and 
the  rice  all  combed  out  of  his  hair,  faces  the  fight  of  his  life  in 
the  picture  business. 

Little  Caesar  Microphone,  plus  the  fateful  chances  of  studio 
policy  and  expediency,  have  put  Charlie  "on  the  spot." 

Right  now,  back  in  Hollywood  with  the  lucky  little  woman, 
he  faces  the  battle  of  his  century  to  hold,  consolidate  and  make 
more  resplendent  the  stardom  he  won  with  Chico  in  "  7th 
T-eaven."  Few  know  what  and  how  Farrell  has  had  to  fight, 
and  has  to  fight  today  and  tomorrow. 

He  told  me.  It  wasn't  a  confession — there  wasn't  a  hint  of 
a  pettish  whine  or  excuse.    It  was  a  plain  statement  of  fact. 

"  7th  Heaven"  made  Charlie  and  Janet  Gaynor  stars,  but  it 
did  more  than  that.  First,  it  shackled  them  as  a  picture  team, 
and  labeled  them  as  Farrell  and  Gaynor,  Unlimited  Dealers  in 
Screen  Sweetness.  Second — oh,  fatal  tag — it  hall-marked  them 
as  Young  Lovers  for  ever  and  a  couple  of  weeks.  Both  have 
been  squirming,  and  are  struggling  to  this  day,  to  grow  into  the 
mature,  vigorous  parts  that  they  hope  to  get. 

Now  the  team  has  been  torn  asunder — the  kids  are  on  their 
own.    And  that's  easier  done  than  made  to  stick! 

We — and  the  men  who  show  pictures  in  our  theaters — are 
very  apt  to  deny,  with  screams  and  arm  wig-wags,  that  half  a 
loaf  is  better  than  no  bread  at  all.  If  we  can't  get  the  whole 
loaf,  Gaynor  and  Farrell,  all  sweetness  and  light,  we're  apt  to 
say  we'll  eat  cake,  and  amble  down  the  block  to  another 
bakery.    And  that's  not  nice,  for  stars  or  company,  either. 

That's  just  one  tough  angle.    Here's  another: 

There's  the  voice,  and  if  you  think  that's  all  skeer  and  bittles, 
you  should  hear  Charlie  tell  it,  as  he  sits  with  his  lanky  legs 
draped  over  a  chair  arm  and  his  eyes  roaming  across  the  con- 
tinent, 3,000  miles  to  the  struggle  on  the  set  in  Hollywood! 

30 


ard  Hall       T  ,  „    „  .      . 

I   cornered   rarrell   in   a  luxurious 

Park  Avenue  hotel — one  of  those  gilded 

joints  where  the  doormen  are  dukes,  and  no  one  below  the  rank 

of  lieutenant-colonel  in  the  Bulgarian  Horse  Marines  can  get  a 

job  hopping  bells. 

The  new  missus  was  out  walking  the  bankroll  along  Fifth 
Avenue,  where  every  shiny  shop  is  a  dare.  And  Charlie  got 
philosophic  and  reminiscent. 

"Until  I  heard  my  voice  from  the  screen,"  said  Charlie, 
gazing  speculatively  out  at  the  Rolls-Royces,  "I  never  knew  it 
was  high.    Furthermore,  no  one  had  ever  said  so. 

"I'm  a  Cape-Codder,  and  folks  up  there  are  inclined  to  speak 
with  something  of  a  nasal  twang,  and  in  the  upper  registers. 
But  off  the  screen  nobody  had  ever  commented  on  my  voice, 
and  I  got  plenty  of  shock  when  I  heard  it  in  my  first  talkie." 

THAT'S  another  cross  Farrell  totes  on  his  broad  and  com- 
petent shoulders.  He's  laboring  with  his  pipes  day  in  and 
day  out,  working  to  bring  his  speaking  voice  from  a  high  tenor 
to  a  middling  baritone. 

It's  dollars  to  corn-plasters  he'll  ask  you,  hopefully,  if  you 
don't  notice  a  change  for  the  lower  since  he  gave  us  a  bit  of  a 
turn  when  we  heard  him  in  "Sunny  Side  Up." 

There's  still  another  thorn  in  Charlie  Farrell's  rosy  crown. 

Charlie  may  be  only  half  of  Gaynor-and-Farrell  of  Sweetness, 
Unlimited,  but  just  the  same,  Charlie  is  a  Name — a  solid  draw 
among  the  susceptible  young  ladies  who  tear  down  the  theaters 
where  his  pictures  are  shown. 

It's  no  secret  that  Fox,  for  whom  Farrell  toils,  is  zealously — 
even  ferociously — trying  to  develop  more  feminine  stars  to  glit- 
ter in  their  line-up.     They  want  the  girls — need  them,  in  fact! 

And  how  does  a  picture  company  hopefully  launch  stars  of 
the  feminine  persuasion? 

Well,  one  way  is  to  push  them  off  the  dock.  The  other,  and 
better,  is  to  nudge  them  toward  the  public  as  nominally  sup- 
porting a  well-known  masculine  name — such  as  Charles  Farrell. 
The  ladies'  parts,  you  know,  can  be  judiciously  padded  and 
built,  and  the  completed  film  will  sell  on  the  strength  of  the 
young  gentleman's  name  and  at  the  same  time  introduce  the 
lassie,  in  a  plump  and  succulent  role,  to  a  world  made  up  of 
chronic  Missourians.  [  please  turn  to  page  122  ] 


Can  she  overcome  it?  That 
is  what  everyone  is  asking. 
Clara  Bow  is  at  the  cross- 
roads in  her  career.  Unless 
she  can  down  her  Micro- 
phone-Phobia she  is  slated 
for  permanent  retirement. 
Which  will  it  be,  a  farm  in 
Nevada  or  a  future  in 
Hollywood?  A  scene  from 
her  latest  picture,  "Kick  In" 


Clara's  Microphone  Fright 


THIS  is  not  a  plea  for  sympathy  + 

for  Clara.   It  is  not  in  criticism 
of  her.    It  is  merely  some  inside  "dope"  the  world  should 
know  before  they  censure  or  praise  her. 

As  this  is  written,  Clara  is  in  the  Glendale  Sanitarium.  She 
is  not,  however,  as  sick  as  the  newspapers  have  stated. 

Clara  has  fooled,  or  partially  fooled,  approximately  twenty- 
five  doctors  upon  her  illness.  Furthermore,  she  has  fooled  her- 
self— which  is  even  more  important. 

Clara  Bow  is  suffering  from  Microphone-Phobia. 

Naturally,  her  recent  troubles  with  Daisy  De  Voe  and  the 
publicity  resulting  from  them  have  not  helped  her  condition. 
But  it  is  not  the  main-spring  of  her  present  breakdown.  More 
of  that  later. 

Did  you  know  that  Clara  Bow  stammers?  I  use  that  word, 
although  it  really  is  not  correct  technically,  and  Clara  won't 
like  it. 

She  said,  after  reading  one  of  the  scurrilous  attacks  made 
upon  her  by  the  Girnau  paper,  "Why  doesn't  Daisy  come 
out  now  with  the  proof  that  I  stammer?  She  has  forgotten 
something." 

Clara  talks  very  rapidly.  She  gets  thoroughly  excited  when 
telling  a  story.  Her  excitable  mind  works  so  much  more  rapidly 
than  her  tongue  that  her  words  can't  catch  up  to  her.  The 
result  is  equal  to  a  stammer — although  it  is  not  an  impediment 
of  speech,  but  a  psychological  reaction.  For  example,  if  she 
were  telling  a  story,  she  would  say,  "And  then  I — and  then  I — 
I — why — I  ran — I  ran  across  the  street.''  By  the  time  her 
tongue  is  at  that  statement,  her  mind  is  on  what  has  happened 
long  after  she  crossed  the  street.  She  has  to  think  back — and 
repeats  herself  in  an  effort  to  remember  where  she  was  in  her 
story. 

But  through  the  years,  this  habit  has  grown  upon  her. 
Furthermore,  the  terrific  excitement  of  the  past  four  months 
has  accentuated  it.  And  her  natural  fear  of  the  microphone — 
from  the  first  day  of  talking  pictures — has  doubled  it.  She  does 
the  same  thing  when  speaking  her  lines  for  a  picture.  She  is 
thinking  ahead,  of  what  comes  next,  what  she  will  do  next — 
and  forgets  the  line  she  is  saying.  Each  scene  has  to  be  taken 
and  retaken. 

It  is  absolutely  true  that  Clara  hates  talking  pictures.    She 


h    B  i  c  t  v 

J  has  begged  Paramount  to  release  her 

from  her  contract.  In  one  letter  to 
Ben  Schulbcrg,  highest  mogul  of  the  West  Coast  studio,  she 
even  offered  to  allow  Paramount  to  take  all  she  has  owned,  her 
entire  savings — which  amount  to  a  quarter  of  a  million  dollars, 
of  which  $210,000  is  in  a  trust  fund  and  $40,000  in  other  hold- 
ings— if  they  would  allow  her  to  retire  from  pictures.  She 
promised  that  if  she  ever  returned,  she  would  make  pictures  for 
no  one  but  Paramount,  if  they  still  wanted  her.  She  said,  "  It  is 
my  home.  The  only  one  I  know.  You  have  been  like  a  father 
to  me."    Her  one  plea  was,  "  Please  don't  make  me  do  another." 

But  Paramount  refuses.  They  believe  they  are  doing  the 
best  thing  for  Clara  in  refusing.  Mr.  Schulbcrg  says,  "We 
believe  Clara  to  be  a  great  actress.  We  know  she  is.  She  must 
be  as  great  in  talkies  as  she  was  in  silents.  We  are  going  ahead 
with  our  plans  for  her.    Her  first  will  be  'Manhandled'.'' 

Clara  has  had  nervous  fright  before  every  recent  picture. 
She  goes  into  them  with  a  mania  of  fright.  When  some  other 
girl  is  put  into  the  production,  she  begins  to  get  well  immedi- 
ately. Within  four  days  after  Sylvia  Sidney  was  given  the  Bow 
lead  in  "City  Streets,"  Clara  was  saying,  "I'm  all  right  now. 
If  they  had  only  waited — " 

But  when  "The  Secret  Call"  started,  exactly  the  same  thing 
happened. 

BEFORE  rehearsals  for  "City  Streets,"  Mr.  Schulbcrg  told 
the  entire  cast  of  Clara's  fright — her  so-called  stammer. 
"Now,  Clara,  they  know  all  about  it.  You  do  not  need  to 
be  self-conscious." 

He  did  the  same  with  "The  Secret  Call."  In  fact,  Stuart 
Walker  was  chosen  to  direct  her  because  of  his  long  experience 
and  reputation  for  being  able  to  handle  young  people  and 
highly  nervous  ones.  He  was  told  of  Clara's  Microphone- 
Phobia  and  asked  if  he  would  do  everything  in  his  power  to  help 
her.  He  wanted  Clara  Bow  for  this  picture,  not  only  because  of 
his  belief  in  her,  but  because  he  wanted  to  show  her  how  un- 
reasonable and  foolish  was  her  bugaboo  about  talking  pictures. 

Clara  was  at  Rex  Bell's  ranch  in  Nevada.  When  all  her  pleas 
to  be  relieved  from  her  contract  failed,  she  produced  doctors' 
certificates  to  say  she  was  unable  to  work,  and  refused  to  come 
to  Hollywood.    But  Paramount    [  please  turn  to  PAGE  120  1 

31 


How  to  Adapt  screen  ^sAodes 


A  remarkably  frank 
article  in  which  Gloria 
Swanson  answers  the 
questions  millions  of 
women  ask  about  styles 
created  for  the  stars 


By  Lois  Shirley 


THERE  is  no  woman  in  Hollywood  more  competent  to 
talk  on  "  Clothes  for  the  Screen  as  Compared  to  Clothes 
for  the  Drawing  Room"  than  Gloria  Swanson. 

She  was  the  first  "clothes  horse"  of  pictures.    She  is, 
today,  one  of  the  best-dressed  women  on  the  screen — or  off. 

Yet,  I  doubt  whether  she  would  have  talked  on  the  subject 
(she  has  refused  for  years!)  if  it  had  not  been  for  Chanel's  trip 
to  Hollywood. 

When  Chanel  came  out  of  Paris  to  tell  Gloria  Swanson  how 
to  dress,  Gloria's  back  stood  up  in  little  ridges. 

Just  what  did  Chanel  know  about  it?  She  might  dress 
women  for  the  drawing-room  correctly,  but  how  could  she 
know  about  dressing  them  for  the  camera?  Gloria  will  not 
admit  that  Paris  dressmakers  of  today  know  all  that  there  is  to 
know  about  dressing  American  women  for  the  street  and  ball- 
room, either. 

Two  years  ago,  when  Gloria  was  in  Europe  for  the  London 
opening  of  "The  Trespasser,"  she  purchased  many  clothes 
in  Paris.  She  had  the  usual  fittings  and  departed  for 
London.  She  dashed  back  to  Paris  to  pick  up  her  clothes 
in  time  for  the  opening,  carried  them  back  to  London  with 
her.  She  was  unable  to  wear  one  of  them  until  they  had  been 
refilled. 

"  Dressing  is  not  a  matter  of  general  styles,  only;  it  is  a 
matter  of  a  personality's  particular  style!"  she  says. 

"One  fitting  will  not  do  it;  sometimes  several  are  insuffi- 
cient. What  looks  right  in  a  design  or  in  the  first  few  fit- 
tings, may  look  all  wrong  when  the  gown  is  finished.  Each 
one  of  those  Paris  gowns  needed  some  little  change  to  make 
it  right  for  Gloria  Swanson.  And  they  would  undoubtedly 
have  needed  some  change  to  make  them  right  for  some 
other  person." 

TO  explain  what  she  meant,  Gloria  showed  me  a  gown 
which  was  being  completed  for  her  recent  visit  to 
New  York. 

Made  from  a  design  by  a  famous  creator,  it  had  been  cut 
and  fitted  to  her  by  Ann  Morgan,  who  has  been  supervising 
the  actual  making  of  Gloria's  clothes  for  many  years.  It 
looked  all  right  at  the  first  and  even  second  fitting,  but  at 
the  third  and  fourth — ! 

There  was  a  cape  across  the  back.  Now,  a  straight  cape 
makes  shoulders  look  broad.  Gloria  has  to  be  careful  and 
not  give  a  broad-shouldered  impression  because  she  is 
naturally  a  little  broad-shouldered. 

"  Let's  cut  that  cape  on  the  bias.  Make  it  longer  at  the 
left  point  than  at  the  right,"  she  told  Miss  Morgan. 

The  diagonal  cape  did  away  entirely  with  the  broad- 
shouldered  appearance. 

32 


Paris  didn't  say  one 
sleeve  was  the 
thing  —  but  Gloria 
did.  And  a  million 
fans  went  home  to 
cut  out  their  jacket 
sleeve ! 


Chanel  might  not 
endorse  this  —  but 
Gloria  says  it  has 
the  necessary  ex- 
aggeration for 
screen  purposes 


to 


Fit  Your  Personality 


Remember  this 
black  velvet  negli- 
gee from  "What  a 
Widow"?  The 
original  designer 
was  carried  out 
screaming  when 
Gloria  slit  it  down 
the  side 


This  little  model 
illustrates  the 
longer  effect  in  back 
which  gives  Gloria 
that  taller  look. 
Note  the  one  cuff 
effect — a  typical 
Swanson  touch 


Gloria  Says: 


"/^\UR  clothes  are  exaggerated  for  screen  pur- 
\^J poses.    But  a  woman  can  take  a  gown  from 
a  picture  and  follow  the  general  idea — change  it 
here  and  there  to  fit  her  personality." 


JLthose  little  things  to  their  dresses,  we  wouldn't 
find  three  women  in  the  same  drawing-room 
dressed  exactly  alike — all  in  'exclusive'  models 
from  Paris!" 


"rT",HE   creator   for   the   drawing-room   has 
X  material,  color  and  line  at  his  disposal.  The 
creator  for  the  screen  has  only  lines." 


"  A    CTRESSES   are    not    manikins    displaying 
XJLgowns.      The    gowns    are    to    display    the 
actresses." 


"OTYLES  for  the  screen  often  have  to  be  a  bit 
Odifferent  from  styles  of  the  street." 


The  gown  was  black  and  blue.  There  were  two  little  pleats 
of  the  blue  running  from  the  bust.  They  were  exactly  parallel 
on  the  design  and  at  the  first  few  fittings.  But  before  the  gown 
was  completed,  Gloria  said: 

"Let's  raise  this  right  pleat  half  an  inch.  Parallel  lines  are 
not  good.  They  are  too  mechanical.  And  uneven  lines  give  me 
height!" 

Gloria  is  five  feet,  one-half  inch  in  her  stockings.  She  must 
always  watch  this  matter  of  height  for  off-screen  and  on-screen 
purposes. 

The  right  pleat  was  raised.  The  entire  dress  changed  its 
appearance  with  this  mere  half-inch  differentiation.  Her  bust 
looked  fully  an  inch  smaller;  she  looked  fully  an  inch  taller.  The 
parallel  lines  had  seemed  to  block  in  her  figure;  the  uneven  ones 
elongated  it.  There  was  a  coat  with  the  costume.  It  had  sleeves. 

"TS.TOVV,  picture  trying  to  put  that  cape  into  sleeves  without 
IN  absolutely  spoiling  it  by  wrinkles!"    She  slipped  the  coat 
off  and  on,  again  and  again,  to  see  if  she  could  do  it.     She 
paraded  before  her  mirror.    Finally,  she  smiled. 

"I've  got  it!  Leave  the  left  sleeve  out  of  the  coat,  entirelv. 
Put  in  the  right.  Cut  the  left  side  of  the  coat  so  it  comes  under 
the  arm  and  fastens  here.  So!  The  blue  from  the  cape  of  the 
dress  makes  a  lovely  covering  for  the  arm.    See — " 

Three  little  changes  in  one  gown.  Yet — it  was  so  completely 
altered  from  what  the  designer  intended  that  you  would 
scarcely  have  recognized  it. 

The  uneven  cape  line;  the  non-parallel  darts  and  the  one- 
sleeved   coat.      The   last   innovation    was  something   nea   in 
fashions.     It  made  Gloria  the  ultra-smart — distinctly  the  / 
Swanson  person  for  which  she  is  famous. 

"If  women  would  only  take  the  time  to  do  those  little  things 
to  their  dresses,  we  wouldn't  find  three  women  in  the  same 
drawing-room  dressed  exactly  alike — all  in  'exclusive'  models 
from  Paris!"  [  please  tir.v  to  page  115  J 


^^OtherSide 


A  clever  story  of  a  girl  who  bar- 
gained recklessly  for  love  only  to 
find  it  where  she  least  expected  to 


SANTA  MONICA  BOULEVARD  sweltered  in  the  ten 
o'clock  sun  of  a  July  morning.  Around  the  horseshoe  of 
an  open  market,  gingham  housewives  busied  themselves 
among  the  riotous  displays  of  the  wealth  of  California. 
On  Vine  Street  fat,  red  busses  trundled  by  and  traffic  bells 
jangled,  as  the  business  of  a  brisk  and  busy  city  went  on  with 
neatness  and  despatch. 

But  Hollywood  is  Hollywood  for  a'  that,  where  a  day,  though 
reduced  to  even  its  most  unsophisticated  terms,  may  still  be 
depended  upon  somehow  to  bear  the  unmistakable  mark  of  a 
cuckoo's  egg  in  a  peacock's  nest.  As  proof  of  which,  that 
July  morning,  on  the  corner  of  Gower  Street  and  Santa 
Monica,  there  stood  in  the  blistering,  sun-baked  safety-zone, 
Miss  Carlie  Marquette  in  decidedly  decollete  white  satin  and 
pearls,  a  train  folded  over  one  arm,  a  load  of  American  beauties 
in  the  other,  white  spangled  slippers  badly  smudged,  a  towering 
crown  of  rainbow-colored  ostrich  plumes,  and  to  complete  the 
picture,  a  wash  of  deep  ivory  make-up  and  a  dark  and  rapidly 
closing  black  eye. 

The  stream  of  limousines  and  natty  roadsters  traveled  by  on 
their  own  concerns,  unobservant  of  beauty  in  what  may  or  may 
not  have  been  distress.  Hollywood  spends  little  interest  on 
that  which  has  long  since  become  prosaic.  Unnoticed,  the 
face  of  St.  Mark's  of  Rome,  backed  by  silvered  uprights, 
stands  across  Grubb's  vacant  lot,  its  cathedral  doors  plastered 
with  ads  for  the  latest  schemes  in  gentlemen's  underwear  and 
the  newest  irons  with  which  to  crimp  a  waffle. 

AND  it  is  only  part  of  a  day  that  in  traffic  crowding  down 
Wilshire  shall  be  a  bus-load  of  Zulu  cannibals,  an  arch- 
angels' choir,  and  a  dozen  assorted  soubrettes  of  the  days  of  '49; 
or  grouped  about  a  city  park  fountain,  the  veiled  ladies  of  a 
Turkish  harem;  or  along  the  stools  of  a  counter  where  you  drop 
in  for  lunch,  the  signers  of  the  Declaration  of  Independence, 
deposed  Nicholas  of  Russia,  Ali  Baba  and  his  thieves,  and 
Salome  trying  to  find  out  from  Sitting  Bull  if  he  remembered  to 
empty  the  pan  under  the  ice-box  before  they  came  to  work. 

Unstirred  by  the  Ziegfeld  glory  of  Miss  Marquette,  the  up 
and  down  town  traffic  moved  smoothly  by,  the  morning 
became  hotter  as  the  sun  traveled  higher,  the  shadows  grew 
shorter  as  the  hour  neared  noon. 

And  then,  after  twenty  minutes  which  must  have  seemed  an 
hour  to  the  young  lady  in  the  safety-zone,  an  extremely  high- 
toned  and  expensive  car  stopped  along  the  curb,  and  out  of  it 
stepped  a  gentleman,  assembled  after  the  well-known  pattern 
of  "man-about-town" — the  alluring,  happy-go-lucky  eyes,  the 
wicked,  fascinating  little  waxed  mustache,  the  stick,  the  light 
Fedora,  the  boutonniere — one  of  those  gentlemen  your  mind 
instantly  places  in  the  paddock  at  Pimlico,  or  at  Nice,  or 
Monte  Carlo,  or  looking  into  a  woman's  eyes  across  champagne ! 

He  removed  the  light  Fedora  and  approached  Miss  Marquette. 

Si. 


Sunrise 


There  in  the  sun-baked  safety 
zone  stood  Carlie  Marquette, 
a  train  folded  over  one  arm, 
a  load  of  American  beauties 
in  the  other,  and  a  dark, 
rapidly  closing  eye.  "Pardon 
me,"  he  asked,  "is  there 
anything  I  can  do?" 


By 

Dixie  Willson 


Illustrated  by   R.   F.   James 


"Pardon  me,"  he  said,  "is  there  anything  I  can  do  for  you?" 

He  seemed  slightly  amused,  addressed  her  with  just  a  careless  little  savoir- 

vivre. 

Miss  Marquette  straightened  the  feathered  crown  on  her  castle  of  canary 

colored  curls. 

"Believe  it  or  not,"  she  said,  "I'm  waiting  for  a  street  car." 

The  gentleman  made  a  slight  gesture  toward  the  waiting  limousine  and 

its   plum-colored   chauffeur. 

"I  should  be  delighted  to  substitute,"  he  suggested.     "May  I  take  you 

somewhere?" 

SUDDENLY  down  her  cheeks  descended  tears.  Suddenly  vermilion  lips 
were  quivering  childishly. 

"You're  damn  right,"  she  said  in  a  very  small  treble,  one  hand  folding 
over  the  indigo  eye.    "You  can  take  me  to  a  p-piece  of  raw  beefsteak!" 

In  the  coolness  and  luxury  of  the  limousine  she  wilted,  her  iridescent  train 
carpeting  the  floor,  the  roses  falling  in  limp  disarray  beside  her.  From  his 
top  pocket,  the  gentleman  supplied  an  imported  linen  handkerchief. 

"Thanks,"  murmured  Miss  Marquette,  and  proceeded  to  absorb  the 
clinging  tears,  and  to  blow  a  small  but  really  quite  patrician  nose. 

"I  suppose  you  think  I'm  getting  home  from  a  jag,  but  I'm  not,"  she  said, 
her  voice  tremulous  and  unsteady.  "I  only  told  another  lady  in  a  cockeyed 
night-club  set  what  I  think  of  her." 

An  orchid  colored  plume  and  a  scent  of  gardenias  trailed  the  gentleman's 
shoulder  as  Miss  Marquette  sniff-sniffed  into  the  handkerchief. 

"And  if  there  are  any  more  events  in  my  life  line,"  sniff-sniff,  "that  are  worse 
hokum  than  the  p-picture  business,"  sniff -sniff ,  "I'll  blow  the  works  right  now. 
The  appeal  they  expect  from  a  girl  for  ten  dollars  a  day  would  make  Venus 
look  like  she  had  fallen  arches!  Juct  let  them  try  to  get  a  baby,"  sniff-sniff, 
"that  can  walk  with  a  train  eight  yards  long  and  balance  a  head-piece  like 
the  grand  allegory  and  wave  a  fan  the  size  of  a  man-eating  ostrich  and  kneel 
down  in  four  counts  and  get  up  in  four  counts,  with  one  arm  full  of  roses,  and 
shoes  three  sizes  too  small,  and  the  men  at  the  tables  shooting  vichy  down  her 
back  and  the  chorus  she's  got  to  warble  written  in  double  G  sharp!" 

She  removed  the  "grand  allegory"  and  placed  it  across  the  nearby  white 
flannel  knees,  and  through  her  tears  observed  that  the  car  had  not  moved 
from  the  corner  of  Gower  Street  and  Santa  Monica. 

"Is  this  chariot  a  prop,"  she  said,  "or  can  we  get  going?" 

The  gentleman  moved  his  feet  away  from  the  scintillating  train  and  reached 
for  the  speaking  tube. 

"To  a — a  meat  market,  James,"  he  relayed  to  the  plum-colored  chauffeur. 


WHEN  a  woman  weeps,  let  her  explain  it  as  she  will,  you  may  bet  your 
bottom  dollar  it  has  something  to  do  with  love! 
And  the  cold  facts  behind  the  tears  of  Miss  Carlie  Marquette  were  brief 
and  simple,  after  all.  Along  with  several  other  hundred  thousand  fluttering 
feminine  souls,  she  was  a  slave  to  the  dark  intense  eyes,  the  impassioned  voice, 
the  superb  command  of  that  young  God  of  the  screen,  Jarod  Sarvis,  though 
Carlie  Marquette  had  a  better  right,  by  far,  to  love  him,  than  had  the  rest, 
since  she  had  loved  him  long  before  the  other  hundred  thousand  had  even 
known  he  was  alive! 

She  had  loved  him  suddenly  and  absolutely  when,  one  day, 
they  had  sat  side  by  side  at  a  twenty-live  cent  lunch  counter, 
and  she  had  spilled  her  coffee  on  his  only  suit.  She  had  loved 
him  through  the  weeks  after  that,  when  they  had  met  playing 
mob  scenes  together.  She  had  loved  him  through  the  months 
when  he  hadn"t  even  been  cast  for  mob  scenes,  and  she  had 
kept  track  of  him  to  make  him  loans  and  keep  his  courage 
together! 

He  had  taken  her  to  supper  once  or  twice ;  one  night  they  had 


sat  together  in  the  moonlight  along  the  beach  at  Del  Rey,  and 
he  had  rumpled  her  hair  and  pulled  her  teasingly  against  his 
shoulder  when  she  had  read  his  fortune  in  the  sand  and  had 
told  him  in  a  year  he  would  be  famous;  and  she  had  loved  him 
through  the  year  she  had  foretold  in  the  sand,  when  he  had  been 
plunged  overnight  into  that  hey-dey,  that  whimsey  called 
"success";  the  world  suddenly  aware  of  him,  money  suddenly 
bidding  for  him,  the  spotlight  suddenly  following  him,  the  world 
of  women  suddenly  adoring  him! 

And  still  loving  him,  Carlie  Marquette  had  felt  him  growing 
farther  and  farther  away  from  her,  as  she  had  longed  for  him 
the  more.  Not  that,  in  success,  he  had  forgotten  her,  but  just 
that  he  had  never  really  been  conscious  of  her  at  all!  To  him 
the  little  hours  they  had  been  together,  had  been  but  incidents 
of  gipsy  days.  To  her,  those  moments  when  she  had  been  near 
him,  had  touched  his  hand,  had  heard  his  voice,  had  been 
Heaven;  the  only  Heaven  she  prayed  for! 

Boyishly  he  had  laughed  with  her,  those  nights  they  had 
made  thirty  cents  do  for  supper  for  both  of  them;  gaily  they 
had  crowded  along  together  in  the  mobs  for  their  five  dollars 
a  day — wildly  cheering  the  homecoming  hero,  or  in  terror 
fleeing  from  the  Indians,  or  with  swords  and  staves  storming 
French  royalty,  Carlie  always  poignantly,  achingly  aware  of 
his  nearness,  and  he,  so  intent  on  just  a  day's  work,  he  was 
aware  of  nothing  at  all! 

CARLIE  hadn't  seen   him  for  months!     And  so  she  had 
written  him  a  note  which  had  said: 

"Jerry  Dearest  have  you  forgotten  all  about  me?  I 
suppose  you've  missed  me  like  a  mermaid  misses  garters! 
Can't  I  see  you  sometime?" 

He  had  answered  at  once,  an  answer  which  had  been  de- 
livered to  her  on  the  "cockeyed  night-club  set." 
"Dear  Carlie: 

I  am  glad  to  know  you  are  still  in  Hollywood.  Yes,  we 
must  get  together  sometime  and  have  a  laugh  about  the 
coffee. 

Sincerely, 
Jerry" 
So  she  had  been  right  in  guessing  how  little  he  had  missed 


her!  They  must  get  together  "sometime,"  but  not  particularly 
sooner.  Nor  for  any  better  reason  than  to  laugh  about  the 
coffee! 

That  was  what  she  meant  to  him — a  laugh  about  the  coffee! 
To  her,  he  was  the  sun  and  the  moon  and  the  stars!  And 
all  the  yesterdays — and  all  the  tomorrows! 

So  she  had  wept;  and  had  blamed  her  tears  on  the  intricacies 
of  the  night-club  set! 

SOMETIME  around  noon,  the  limousine  and  the  plum- 
colored  chauffeur  and  the  man  with  the  Monte  Carlo  eyes  and 
Miss  Carlie  Marquette  stopped  before  Villa  Number  Nine, 
in  the'  nondescript,  zig-zag  musical  comedy  street,  where  tiny 
houses  and  tiny  courts  and  angular  chimneys  and  thatch  roofs 
and  rakish  lanterns  and  gay  flag-stones  and  wide  open  windows 
made  one  of  Hollywood's  little  Bohemias. 

"If  you  care  for  slumming,  won't  you  come  in?"  suggested 
Miss  Marquette.    "I  always  keep  an  extra  chair." 

The  plumes,  and  pearls,  and  satin,  and  the  over-bright 
golden  hair  looked  pathetically  weary — as  did  the  little  kitchen 
in  which  Miss  Marquette  and  the  gentleman  presently  re- 
connoitered.  She  deposited  the  roses  in  the  sink,  the  feather 
crown  on  the  ice-box,  and  regarded  a  brown  paper  package  in 
her  hand. 

"If  I  cook  this  steak  instead  of  wear  it,"  she  observed,  "we 
can  have  lunch." 

He  glanced  at  a  watch  on  his  wrist. 

"Is  there  any  reason,"  he  suggested,  "why  you  couldn't 
change  your  dress  and  come  down  to  the  City  Hall  and  marry 
me?  I'm  going  East  today,  and  on  to  Egypt.  I  live  at  the 
Hotel  Continental-Savoy  in  Cairo.  Wouldn't  it  amuse  you 
to  come  along?" 

Miss  Marquette  evinced  no  surprise.  You  are  somehow 
outside  the  pale  of  surprise  in  Hollywood;  satiated  with 
fantasy  until  nothing  is  fantasy!  She  stepped  out  of  the 
spangled  shoes;  and  incongruously  into  a  pair  of  beach  sandals 
from  under  the  gas  stove  beside  a  little  pile  of  egg-shells  and 
coffee-grounds,  on  a  pie  tin. 

"I'll  bite,"  she  said.     "What's  the  laugh?" 

Over  the  bed  of  crumpled  roses  [  please  turn  to  page  122] 


Lou  Tellegen  before  he  put  himself  into 
the  hands  of  a  clever  operator  who  gave  him  a 
"permanent  facial."  Lou  was  offered  a  big 
movie  part  if  he  knocked  off  five  years.  It  is 
not  an  entirely  pleasant  proceeding  and  took 
about  two  weeks 


It  may  not  last  long,  but  this  is  how  the 
veteran  matinee  idol  looked  when  he  was 
again  ready  for  the  photographer.  All  for  the 
sake  of  art.  See  an  item  in  Cal  York's  columns 
about  how  they  get  similar  effects  in  the 
studios 


Norma  Shearer  can 
well  afford  to  look 
regal  with  all  of  us 
clamoring  for  her 
more  loudly  than 
ever.  She  wears 
this  knockout  negli- 
gee  in  ''A  Free 
Soul,"  which  you 
must  see.  It's  tan- 
gerine velvet,  girls, 
with  one  of  those 
trains  that  is  simply 
"tripping" ! 


37 


Another  Hollywood  elopement? 
No,  just  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Irving 
Thalberg  (Norma  Shearer)  hold- 
ing that  smiling  pose  between 
trains  on  their  way  East.  They 
are  vacationing  in  Europe.  Irving 
Jr.'s  along,  too 


THERE  are  persistent  rumors  going 
around  that  Marlene  Dietrich's  trip  to 
Germany  served  two  purposes.  One,  to  get 
her  child;  two,  to  discuss  their  marital  future 
with  her  husband. 

On  her  return  to  New  York,  her  mentor  and 
director,  Von  Sternberg,  was  on  the  telephone 
with  greetings,  and  issuing  strict  instructions 
that  she  was  to  give  out  not  one  interview;  in 
fact,  she  was  to  see  no  one.  These  instructions 
were  carried  out  to  the  letter.  Marlene  was 
heavily  guarded. 

Paramount's  Chicago  office  was  also  notified 
to  meet  Miss  Dietrich,  escort  her  from  one 
train  to  another  and  see  that  she  was  ap- 
proached by  no  one. 

She  left  New  York  accompanied  by  her  small 
daughter,  who  is  at  the  minus-the-front-teeth 
stage.  Marlene  was  attired  in  a  sharks'  skin 
suit,  a  white  lapin  coat  and  a  white,  woolly  cap, 
worn  carelessly — all  rather  reminiscent  of 
Garbo. 

DIETRICH  spent  just  one  night  in  New 
York. 
And  what  a  night! 

Friends  wanted  to  make  her  short  stay  a 
pleasant  one.  They  decided  to  show  her  the 
sights,  so  took  her  to  Harlem.  Tallulah  Bank- 
head  was  along. 

JOAN  CRAWFORD'S  best  parlor  stunt  is  im- 
itating the  deep,  vibrant  voice  of  Marlene 
Dietrich,  whom  she  admires  greatly,  singing, 


Do  you  recognize  this  smiling  mother  as  the  wistful  Mae  Marsh  of 

Griffith  fame?    After  years  of  retirement  she  is  staging  a  comeback 

as  the  mother  in  a  talking  version  of  "Over  the  Hill."  Her  children 

seem  as  pleased  as  we  are  about  it 


C  a  1  Yo  r  k 


(ht» 


" Falling  in  Love  Again."  But  Joan  is  too  em- 
barrassed to  face  an  audience,  so  she  sings  with 
her  back  to  her  friends. 

DOLORES  DEL  RIO  emerged  from  her 
recent  illness  looking  so  beautiful  that  even 
blase  old  Hollywood  gave  a  great,  big  gasp,  and 
rest  cures  are  now  the  order  of  the  day. 
Dolores  says  she's  never  been  so  happy  in  her 
life. 

Cedric  Gibbons,  Metro's  art  director,  is  the 
perfect  husband,  she  says. 

ONE  really  shouldn't  take  up  space 
with  this,  but  one  of  the  Holly- 
wood gag-writers  has  named  his 
beach  place  "Yes-Manor." 

WHEN  Pola  Negri  came  back  to  Holly- 
wood she  was  met  at  the  train  by  a  horde 
of  publicity  and  newspaper  people — but  only 
one  real  friend  among  the  players  was  there  to 


welcome  the  returning  star.  Kathlyn  Wil- 
liams, whose  loyalty  to  Pola  has  been  great 
through  all  the  years,  was  there  to  greet  her. 

Pola,  by  the  way,  is  sensitive  about  her 
weight.  Someone  remarked,  "I  heard  you 
were  not  as  slim  as  you  should  be." 

Desperately  Pola  threw  back  her  coat. 
"Then,  look,  look  at  me.  See  for  yourself. 
Oh,  I  am  thin.  You  must  see  that  I'm  thin. 
There  is  not  a  surplus  pound  on  my  body. 
See — oh,  please  say  that  I'm  thin." 

ONE  of  the  main  objects  of  conversation 
over  the  Hollywood  tea  tables  is  the  change 
that  has  taken  place  in  Norma  Shearer.  Once 
the  most  discreet  little  lady  of  the  films,  she  is 
now  appearing  in  gowns  so  sensational  that 
they  make  even  hard-boiled  old  Hollywood 
gulp  a  couple  of  gulps.  When  she  is  having  her 
clothes  designed  for  picture  purposes  she 
insists  that  they  show  as  much  of  her  anatomy 
as  the  law  and  Will  Hays  allow.     And  cer- 


38 


Ain't  this  sumpin?    Amos  'n'  Andy  give  the  smiling  Mr.  Leo  Carrillo 

a  big  send-off  at  a  recent  luncheon  for  the  star  of  "Hell  Bound"  in 

New  York.     The  famous  radio  team  have  been  making  personal 

appearances  at  New  York  theaters 


The  Monthly  Broadcast 


of 


Hollywood 
Goings-  On/ 


tainly,  being  the  wife  of  Irving  Thalberg,  she 
gets  whatever  she  wants  on  the  M-G-M  lot. 
When,  after  some  big  party,  other  stars  are 
given  an  early  call  for  work  the  next  morning, 
Norma  is  not  needed  before  eleven  A.  m.  She 
is  always  the  gayest  of  them  all  and  ready  with 
a  sophisticated  line  of  patter. 

Perhaps  the  thing  is  psychologically  sound. 
Think  of  the  roles  she  has  been  playing  on  the 
screen,  "The  Divorcee,"  "Let  Us  Be  Gay," 
"Strangers  May  Kiss,"  and  "A  Free  Soul." 

THOSE  close  to  Lupe  and  Gary 
Cooper  believe  they  are  to  be 
married  in  Mexico  soon  but  they  are 
making  every  effort  at  secrecy. 

"L_TOLLYWOOD  is  planning  the  grandest 
■*•  -*-baby  shower  in  its  history  some  time  in 
August.  The  heir  or  heiress  to  the  Bebe  Daniels- 
Ben  Lyon  fortunes  is  expected  in  September. 
Now  what  do  you  think  of  that? 


IN  the  bygone  days,  Theda  Bara 
used  to  play  the  siren  on  the  silent 
screen. 

Now  it's  the  sound-effects  man  in 
the  gangster  pictures. 
Get  it? 

Y\  7E'VE  just  heard  a  story  about  Marion 
**  Davies  that  makes  a  big  hit  with  us.  It 
seems  that  when  Alma  Rubens  died  it  was 
Marion  who  jumped  in  and  relieved  Alma's 
bereaved  mother  by  making  all  the  funeral 
arrangements. 

Marion  rounded  up  as  many  of  Alma's  old 
friends  as  could  get  off  from  their  work — the 
stars  with  whom  Alma  had  worked  through  her 
long  career  in  pictures— and  had  them  at  the 
touching  services  in  the  little  church  in  Forest 
Lawn.  Marion  even  made  the  police  arrange- 
ments which  were  necessary  to  hold  back  the 
big  crowds  that  couldn't  get  into  the  crowded 
church. 


Who's  your  smiling  blonde 
friend,  Gloria?  What,  not  our 
old  friend  Bebe  Daniels  behind 
those  orchids?  Gloria  Swanson 
and  Bebe  arrive  in  New  York  to 
give  the  shops  a  whirl  and  their 
bank  rolls  a  jolt! 


Just  the  other  side  of  that  vivacious,  happy 
girl,  whom  Hollywood  knows  best  for  her  sense 
of  fun. 

COMING  out  of  my  sixth  movie  this  week,  I 
couldn't  help  wondering  to  myself  how  the 
Fourth  Largest  Industry  ever  made  a  success- 
ful gang  picture  before  the  pulchritudinous 
Jean  Harlow  "shocked"  herself  into  promi- 
nence. 

All  I  could  think  was  that  gang  stories  must 
have  been  pretty  tame  affairs  before  the 
platinum-haired  siren  arched  an  eyebrow  at 
the  gang  leader  and  made  him  her  slave. 

D  ECOGNITION  did  not  arrive  as  easily  as 

LVone  might  think. 

At  sixteen,  bored  with  life,  she  married 
Charles  McGrew  of  Chicago. 

This  event,  important  at  the  time,  brought 
her  to  Hollywood. 

Visiting  a  friend  at  the  Fox  studio  one  day. 
she  felt  the  call  of  the  cameras,  the  glamor  of 
the  Kliegs,  the  cause  of  Art!  She  knew  that 
married  life  and  the  emptiness  of  a  social  career 
were  not  enough  for  her. 

Hal  Roach  offered  her  a  two-year  contract  to 
play  in  comedies,  but  Grandfather,  back  in 
Kansas  City,  swore  to  cut  her  out  of  his  will  if 
she  dared  to  become  an  actress. 

WITH  a  quarter  of  a  million  at  stake.  Jean 
argued,  and  wisely — that  perhaps  a  l 
was  a  snare  and  a  delusion  and  not  worth  the 


Tune    in,    Folks,    on    Cal    York's 


Here's  the  answer  to  why  young 
men  become  life  savers. 
Dorothy  Mackaill  gets  a  few 
California  super-sun  rays  after 
completing  "The  Reckless  Hour" 
for  First  National 


price  one  paid.  The  contract  was  torn  into 
shreds. 

However,  the  call  of  Art  proved  too  strong 
for  her. 

Jean  felt  her  beauty  was  not  meant  to  bloom 
unseen. 

So,  stripping  for  action,  she  did  extra  work, 
"bits"  here  and  there.  Then  one  day  she  met 
James  Hall. 

She  broke  down  and  told  him  of  her  struggle 
to  succeed. 

He  took  her  to  Howard  Hughes,  who  was 


The  "Merry  Widow"  returns!  Mae  Murray  is  the  latest  of  the  old 
favorites  who  is  showing  that  the  microphone  holds  no  terrors. 
You'll  find  her  the  same  Mae  in  Lowell  Sherman's  recent  picture, 
"Bachelor  Apartment."  Page  the  other  Mdivani  princess,  Pola 
Negri,  now  an  "ex,"  and  we'll  have  old  home  week! 


then  trying  to  unravel  the  millions  of  feet  of 
film  which  later  burst  upon  the  world  as 
"Hell's  Angels." 

She  was  engaged  for  the  heavy  and  very 
sexy  vamp  part. 

GREATER  love  hath  no  man  than 
that  he  should  dye  his  hair  to  suit 
a  lady's  whims. 

But  that's  what  Rex  Bell  did  for 
his  Clara  Bow. 

She  didn't  like  his  particular 
brand  of  reddish  locks.  She  prefers 
'em  dark. 

So  Rex  up  and  had  his  hair  dyed 
to  suit  her  tastes. 

IN  the  United  Artists  announcement  for 
1931-32,  neither  Doug  Fairbanks  nor  Mary 
Pickford  is  scheduled.  Doug  was  quoted  in 
London  as  saying,  "The  great  mistake  is  that 
people  take  each  other  as  a  matter  of  course 
after  marriage." 

LOU  TELLEGEN,  the  matinee  idol,  has 
gone  for  facial  treatment  in  a  big  way!  To 
regain  his  lost  youth,  he  had  his  face  daubed 
with  some  sort  of  preparation  that  took  the 
years  and  the  wrinkles  away. 

Out  in  Hollywood,  the  studio  make-up 
wizards  have  developed  a  plastic  surgery 
system  that  isn't  surgery!  The  Westmore 
Brothers,  for  instance,  have  perfected  a  system 
whereby  invisible  court  plaster  and  other 
gadgets  are  used  to  give  faces  an  artificial  lift 
to  remove  sags  and  wrinkles. 

When  you  see  George  Arliss  in  "Alexander 
Hamilton,"  you'll  be  surprised  how  young  he 
looks.  Westmore  took  thirty  years  off  his  age 
by  lifting  his  face  lines  with  adhesive  tape  at 
the  temples. 

Next  thing  you  know,  Marie  Dressier  will  be 
doing  Clara  Bow  roles. 


BILL  (SCREEN)  BOYD  has  just  given 
Dorothy  Sebastian  a  wedding  ring.  Yes, 
gentle  reader,  they've  been  married  for  a  num- 
ber of  months,  but  it  was  such  a  hurry-up 
affair  that  they  didn't  wait  to  buy  a  ring  and 
were,  if  you  remember,  joined  with  a  ring  that 
was  given  to  Bill  by  Dorothy  the  Christmas 
before. 

But  the  real  wedding  ring  is  the  most  novel 
in  Hollywood. 

On  the  finger  it  looks  like  a  link  chain  of  tiny 
diamonds. 

Upon  closer  inspection  you  discover  that 
each  link  forms  a  letter  and  the  whole  spells 
out,  "Bill  to  Dot." 

P  STELLE  TAYLOR  is  hoping— and  through 
■'—'her  attorneys  has  suggested — that  Jack 
Dempsey  will  buy  the  mansion  which  has  been 
their  Hollywood  home.  The  place  is  now  in 
Miss  Taylor's  name.  The  actual  investment, 
including  furnishings,  is  $125,000,  and  that  is 
what  Miss  Taylor  would  like  to  materialize 
from  it. 

Mrs.  Dempsey  says  she  cannot  afford  to  keep 
up  the  place  and  the  cash  would  put  her  in  a 
position  where  she  can  take  care  of  herself.  At 
this  writing,  it  is  not  decided  whether  she  will 
ask  anything  further. 

LILA_  LEE  is  back — that  is,  she's  back  in 
Hollywood  but  she  is  still  taking  the  cure. 
She  thought  it  would  be  just  as  well  to  leave 
the  sanitarium  and  finish  the  rest  that  she 
began  in  Arizona,  now  that  she  has  learned  how 
to  take  care  of  herself.  She  stays  in  bed  and 
all  Hollywood  has  banded  together  to  see  that 
she  remains  quiet. 

Even  her  dearest  friends  resist  paying 
her  a  visit.  They  write  her  notes  instead 
to  let  her  know  that  they  love  her  but  they 
realize  that  she  must  be  alone  until  she  is  com- 
pletely well. 


40 


Hollywood   Statio  n— N-E-W-S 


We  wouldn't  blame  the  little  Vidors  for  being  jealous  of  this  little 
girl — she  looks  so  much  like  their  beautiful  mother,  Eleanor  Board- 
man.  She  is  Marilyn  Knowlden,  who  has  been  chosen  by  Para- 
mount to  play  Eleanor's  screen  child  in  her  new  picture,  "Women 
Love  Once."    A  remarkable  likeness,  isn't  it? 


LOIS  WILSON  won  all  of  the  honors  at  the 
Hollywood  premier  of  "Seed." 

When  her  name  flashed  on  the  screen,  there 
was  an  outburst  of  applause.  When  she  first 
entered  the  picture  therewasagreateroutburst. 

When  Conrad  Nagel  called  her  name  for  in- 
troductions, the  applause  was  so  great  she  had 
to  wait  several  moments  before  she  could  be 
heard  above  the  clapping. 

But  when  she  said,  "I  am  so  happy  to  be 
back  on  the  screen  again—"  frankly  admitting 
her  recess  and  her  appreciation  of  another 
opportunity,  the  house  went  crazy. 

A  simple,  unaffected  girl,  loved,  and  there- 
fore honored,  by  her  own  people. 

CONTRACTS  which  Rudy  Vallee  holds  for 
this  summer  guarantee  him  VS17,000  a  week. 
Chicago  censors  barred  shooting  in 
gangster  pictures,  but  the  Chicago  police  can't 
do  anything  about  it  in  real  life.  .  .  .  Marie 
Dressler's  weekly  salary  has  been  increased 
from  SI, 500  to  S5,000.  .  .  .  Wallace  Beery 
and  Robert  Montgomery  have  been  elevated 
to  stardom.  .  .  .  John  Barrymore  is  no  longer 
at  Warners.  .  .  .  They  say  Charles  Cex-Buddy) 
Rogers  is  to  become  a  band  leader  at  the  end  of 
his  picture  contract  this  fall.  .  .  .  Sessue 
Hayakawa  returns  to  pictures  this  fall.  .  .  . 

•"THE  Academy  of  Motion  Picture  Arts  and 
-*-  Sciences  is  offering  bargain  rates  in  its 
initiation  fees.  .  .  .  Corinne  Griffith  and  Col- 
leen Moore  are  planning  comebacks.  .  .  .  The 
press-agents  have  the  nerve  to  claim  that  the 
"  Rogers  for  President"  campaign  is  on  the 
level.  .  .  .  Reri,  beautiful  Polynesian  of 
'"Tabu,"  arrived  in  San  Francisco  in  a  smart 
American  costume.  The  Ziegfeld  press-agents 
put  a  native  grass  skirt  on  her  by  the  time  she 
arrived  in  New  York  to  be  photographed.  .  .  . 
Karl  Dane,  the  Danish  actor,  now  talks  with 
an  English  accent.  .  .  . 


GEORGE  ARLISS  will  make  only  one  more 
picture  after  "Alexander  Hamilton."  .  .  . 
Universal  is  teaming  Slim  Summerville  and 
ZaSu  Pitts  in  comedies.  .  .  .  Display  lines  in 
newspaper  advertisement  "Constance  Bennett 
in  'Born  to  Love'  with  Joel  McCrea."  .  .  . 
Norma  Talmadge  has  been  repeatedly  reported 
as  through  with  pictures  forever.  .  .  .  Helen 
Wills,  woman  tennis  champion,  refused  to  go 
into  movies  when  she  found  that  she  had  to 
kiss  her  leading  man.  Well,  she  couldn't  make 
love  to  him  by  hitting  him  with  a  tennis 
racket.  .  .  . 

"D  UTH  CHATTERTON  is  going  to  stick  to 
■'-^-Paramount.  .  .  .  Madame  Chanel,  famous 
French  dressmaker,  says  she  is  astounded  at 
Hollywood.  Hollywood  wasn't  so  crazy  about 
Chanel  either.  .  .  .  Carl  Laemmle,  Jr.,  is 
starting  a  new  school  for  motion  picture  train- 
ing. Ted  Cooke  suggests  why  not  try  exchange 
plan — send  collegiates  to  the  studios  and  film 
executives  to  college.  .  .  .  Two  weeks  after 
Photoplay's  May  issue  appeared,  nearly 
every  newspaper  in  America  had  copied  our 
Pickford  story.  .  .  . 

FRENCH  censors  got  Jean  Harlow  com- 
pletely out  of  "Hell's  Angels."  .  .  .  Wor- 
cester, Mass.,  has  barred  all  gangster  films. 
.  .  .  Gloria  Swanson  admits  she  is  thirty — 
that  will  do  for  a  minimum.  .  .  .  She  divorced 
Wallace  Beery  in  1918.  .  .  .  On  one  lot  they 
call  an  unpopular  player  "one  of  the  leading 
poisonalities  on  this  lot." 

JUST  mention  the  name  Jeanette  MacDonald 
to  a  certain  overworked  and  harassed  press- 
agent  and  he  breaks  right  out  in  tears.  For 
days  he's  been  trying  to  get  her  on  the  tele- 
phone and  invariably  her  maid  said,  "  Miss 
MacDonald  can't  come  to  the  'phone  now. 
She's  in  the  bath."    This  went  on  for  days  and 


Oops  dearie !  Jean  Harlow  does 
an  aerial  daily  dozen  in  her  new 
Fox  picture,  "Goldie."  Try  this 
at  your  swimming  pool  the  next 
chance  you  get.  It's  great  for  the 
figure 


although  the  man  was  willing  to  admit  that 
cleanliness  was  next  to  godliness  he  wondered 
where  business  came  in. 

At  last  she  began  work  on  a  picture.  Ah, 
he  could  see  her  on  the  set.  Certainly  she  could 
not  avoid  him  at  the  studio.  The  first  morning 
he  journeyed  across  the  lot  and  arrived  upon 
the  scene  of  action,  but  he  was  stopped  at  I  lie 
door. 

"I  want  to  see  Miss  MacDonald,"  the  press 
agent  said. 

"Sorry,"  said  the  doorman,  "the  set  is  closed 
today.  Miss  MacDonald  is  doing  a  bathtub 
sequence  and  nobody's  allowed  in." 

EVEN  Hollywood  maids  are  not 
immune — 

The  other  night  in  Hollywood,  at 
the  home  of  a  couple  who,  although 
not  in  pictures  themselves,  are  on 
intimate  terms  with  many  of  the 
screen  great,  a  new  maid  was  serving 
dinner. 

One  guest  was  late. 

He  arrived  just  before  the  new  maid 
brought  in  the  soup.  As  she  stood  by 
his  side,  he  turned  and  looked  at  her. 
She  squealed  and  dropped  the  plate 
and  fled,  in  complete  confusion,  to 
the  kitchen. 

The  guest  was  John  Gilbert. 

[  PLEASE  TERN  TO  PAGE  82  ] 


M 


AND  all  togged  out  in  what  the  well- 
-*  ^-dressed  Malibu  Beachers  will  wear,  too. 
Mrs.  Barthelmess  evidently  doesn't  care 
about  acquiring  too  much  of  that  sunkist 
tan,  for  the  flattering  beach  dress  she  wears 
and  the  broad  brimmed  hat  offer  ample 
protection  from  the  sun 


Jessica 

and  Dick/ 


42 


Fashion 
Winners 
On   The 

Screen 


PERHAPS  you  have  been  doing 
it  for  years — perhaps  it  is  a  new 
thought.  But  don't  you  find  that 
these  animated  fashion  tips  from 
the  screen  put  a  new  zest  into  your 
shopping  routine?  There  is  some- 
thing about  seeing  a  costume  in 
action  that  dramatizes  the  details. 
You  want  to  try  them  out,  adapt 
them  to  your  own  use. 
And  that's  the  way  I  want  you  to 
use  these  monthly  selections  here. 


\      j 


WHEN  you  see  Joan  Crawford  wear  this  smart  out- 
fit in  "This  Modern  Age/'  you  will  want  to  go 
home  and  try  striped  accents  on  your  new  white  dress. 
There's  a  trick  to  that  scarf,  if  you  look  closely.  A  piece 
of  the  stripe  is  sewed  to  the  belt  so  that  tucking  the 
scarf  under  doesn't  spoil  the  line.  White  gloves,  white 
bag  and  perforated  white  oxfords  dre  perfect. 


COLOR  contrast — everyone  is  doing  it.  And  none 
more  strikingly  than  Rose  Hobart  who  wears  this 
frock  in  "We  Three.''  The  dark  top  is  navy  blue  to  con- 
trast with  a  pale  pink  skirt.  Clever  buttoning,  don't  you 
think?  I  like  the  large  natural  leghorn  with  its  shallow 
crown  and  blue  ribbon  trim. 


Th 


ese 


s 


ummer 


Fash  i 


asnions 


H 


ave 


DON'T  wear  them  all  at  once — but 
separately  these  bracelets  are  very 
smart.  To  the  left,  a  triple  ensemble  in 
emeralds,  rubies  and  coral  with  diamonds. 
To  the  right,  a  five-inch  coil  of  corals.  In 
back,  Lilyan  Tashman,  of  course! 


YOU  don't  have  to  be  as  darkly  witching  as 
Fay  Wray  to  wear  this  evening  gown.  It  is 
the  simple  type  of  frock  that's  generally  becom- 
ing. Graceful  crepe  romain  in  a  pale  flesh  tone. 
Notice  how  the  jeweled  bracelet  and  earrings 
emphasize  the  jeweled  touches  on  the  frock. 
Worn  in  "The  Lawyer's  Secret." 

I  F  you  are  young,  slim  and  delightfully  feminine 
ike  Anita  Louise,  I  would  say  your  best 
party  frock  should  look  like  this.  She  wears 
this  pale  green,  silk  dotted  net  confection  in 
"Everything's  Rosie."  Ankle  length  for  the  skirt, 
however. 


HOW  a  frock  can  change  your  personality! 
Yes,  it's  Fay  Wray  again,  but  this  time 
quaintly  ruffled.  I  vote  this  charming — because 
it  is  organdy,  and  cotton  is  a  first  fashion,  because 
its  short  sleeves  make  it  perfect  for  afternoon  or 
evening — and  because  it  is  feminine  but  not 
fussy. 


Passed    A    Screen    Test! 


YOU  can  save  space  in  that 
week-end  bag  if  you  take 
along  an  outfit  like  this  one  of 
Frances  Dee's.  She  wears  it  in 
"An  American  Tragedy."  White 
jersey,  striped  in  blue,  forms  the 
top  and  trousers.  Remove  the 
trousers  and  there  are  silk  shorts 
ready  for  the  plunge!  Clever,  you 
know.  I  like  the  floppy  beach  hat, 
too. 


AND  speaking  of  week- 
end jaunts — this  silk 
frock  of  Barbara  Stanwycks 
will  travel  well.  It  is  brown 
with  those  cool  touches  of 
white  that  everyone  likes 
this  Summer.  Don't  wear 
those  buckles  on  your  shoes 
for  traveling,  however.  Bar- 
bara wears  this  frock  in 
Ten  Cents  A  Dance." 


/^INGHAM  girl!  That 
^J  isn't  the  role  Con- 
chita  Montenegro  plays — 
merely  her  dress.  With  cot- 
ton so  popular,  even  gay 
plaid  ginghams  are  appear- 
ing. The  vest-like  top  and 
pleated  skirt  are  youthful. 
A  good  vacation  frock. 
Nice,  wide-brimmed  pan- 
ama  hat.  I  would  have  liked 
brown  and  white  sports 
shoes  better. 


s 


e  y  m  o  u  r 


A 


p  p 


roves       Mitzi    s  ashions 


MITZI  GREEN  may  be  only 
ten  but  she  knows  what 
a  smart  little  girl  should  wear. 
Playing  hooky  from  "Let's  Play 
King'"  and  a  few  other  pictures, 
she  took  time  to  pose  in  her  new 
clothes  which  I  immediately 
picked. 

FLOWER  girl  in  a  wedding? 
Oh,  just  party  best!  Well,  I 
think  it's  pretty  nice.  Powder- 
blue  chiffon  on  simple  lines  with 
ruffly  short  sleeves.  The  hat  is 
leghorn — and  please  notice  the 
gloves! 

MITZI  uses  that  touch  of 
white,  too.  A  blue  and 
white  printed  silk  jumper  tops  a 
ruffled  white  silk  blouse.  I  imag- 
ine the  socks  have  some  blue  in 
them.  They  should. 


I  DON'T  know 
I  whether  Mitzi 
cries  "My  Kingdom 
for  a  Horse"  or  not 
— but  she  wears  this 
jaunty  outfit  in  "Let's 
Play  King."  The  coat, 
hat  and  boots  are 
brown  —  the  jodh- 
purs of  beige  whip- 
cord in  the  oest  con- 
trasting fashion.  The 
gloves  are  yellow,  a 
good  third  color  to 
use  with  beige  and 
brown. 


A  VERY  busy 
/\  young  person, 
like  Mitzi,  can't  go 
through  a  Summer 
without  at  least  one 
sweater  and  skirt  out- 
fit. Here,  her  newest 
sweater  is  a  green 
and  white  mixture 
which  tucks  into  a 
green  woolen  skirt. 
Do  you  suppose  that 
tiny  flap  in  the 
sweater  is  a  pocket? 


T^P 


rince 


o/F 


arts 


An  English  writer  reveals,  for  the  first  time,  intimate 
stories  of  England's  royal  princes  at  the  movies 


IN  the  so-called  Grand  Cinema,  a  little  neigh- 
borhood house  situated  at  the  fork  of  the  Edge- 
ware  and  Harrow  Roads,  one  of  the  poorer 
quarters  of  London,  yet  within  a  short  taxi  ride 
of  fashionable  Mayfair,  a  keen  observer  might  have 
detected  an  air  of  tension  about  the  doormen,  the 
ushers  and  the  house  manager. 

A  whispered  word  from  an  official  in  a  not-very-well-boiled 
shirt  caused  a  ticket-checker  to  redouble  his  efforts  to  get  a  line 
of  ten  and  twenty-cent  patrons  into  the  auditorium. 

The  manager  glanced  at  his  watch  and  breathed  a  furtive 

sigh  of  relief.    Two  minutes  to  nine  and  an  almost  empty  lobby. 

A  long  Daimler  landaulet  glided  up  to  the  front  of  the  cinema. 

A  quietly  liveried  chauffeur  poured  out  of  his  seat  and  held  open 

the  door. 

A  slight,  good-looking,  nervous  young  man,  with  a  gray  soft 
hat  pulled  down  over  his  eyes,  sprang  out  and  disappeared 
into  the  cinema  lobby. 


By 

Donovan 
P  edelty 


The  house  manager  bowed — just  low  enough  to 
be  respectful,  not  so  low  as  to  attract  attention. 
"Same  place?" 

The  manager  answered  a  low  affirmative  and  was 
rewarded  by  a  smile  more  widely  photographed 
than  any  other  in  the  world. 

Taking  two  and  three  steps  at  a  time,  the  Prince 
of  Wales  ran  up  the  stairway  in  the  center  of  the  lobby.,  A 
tensely  expectant  commissionaire  saluted  swiftly  and  swung 
open  the  doors  leading  to  the  circle.  The  darkness  of  the 
auditorium  swallowed  up  the  heir-apparent  to  the  throne  of  the 
British  Empire.  About  then  I  came  out  of  a  corner,  where  I  had 
been  drinking  a  cup  of  the  unspeakable  mess  which  in  England 
is  dignified  by  the  name  of  coffee,  and  began  to  climb  the  stairs. 
"  Hey ! "  said  the  manager — an  old  acquaintance — "where  are 
you  going?" 

"Going  to  have  a  look  at  the  Prince  of  Wales." 
"You're  crazy." 

¥f 


The  Prince   was   sitting   in   a  thirty-cent   seat, 

whispering    to    a    girl.      Five    hundred    people 

around  them  remained  blissfully  unaware 


"No,"  I  said  half-way  up  the  stairs,  "you  are."  He  joined 
me  on  the  stairs. 

"The  management,"  he  said,  "reserves  the  right  to  refuse 
admission."  In  polite  and  circumlocutory  England  that  means 
quit  or  they'll  call  the  bouncer. 

"And  the  press,"  I  said,  "the  right  to  print  what  they  damn 
well  like." 

After  that  we  went  and  took  a  look  at  him  together.  He  was 
sitting  in  a  thirty-cent  seat,  next  to  a  girl  whose  face  I  could 
only  dimly  see  in  the  darkness.  From  the  lines  of  her  slim 
shoulders  and  the  shape  of  her  head  I  judged  her  to  be  a  good- 
looker.  She  and  the  Prince  conversed  in  low  tones.  Five 
hundred  people  round  them  kept  their  eyes  on  the  screen,  bliss- 
fully unaware  that  the  Empire's  most  popular  Prince  of  the 
Blood  sat  among  them. 

From  the  manager  I  learned  that  for  some  time  the  Prince 
has  visited  this  little  out-of-the-way  cinema  every  week,  some- 
times twice  a  week — always  in  the  same  circumstances. 

About  eight  o'clock  one  of  the  Prince's  secretaries  would 
telephone  the  manager.  About  eight  forty-five  a  young  lady 
arrived  and  was  shown  to  a  prearranged  seat.  On  the  stroke  of 
nine  the  Prince  arrived  and  joined  her. 

Even  if  anyone  had  caught  a  full,  clear  glimpse  of  the  Prince's 
face  he  would  not  have  believed  his  own  eyes.  That  I  was 
present  on  this  occasion  was  just  bad  luck — not  for  me,  but  for 
the  Prince,  because  Fm  giving  away  his  secret  now. 

IS  there  anyone  who  will  blame  the  Prince  for  these  stolen 
pleasures?  If  there  is,  he  must  be  strangely  ignorant  of  the 
constant,  maddening  lack  of  privacy  in  which  kings  and  princes 
have  their  being.  No  one  knows  the  real  Prince  of  Wales  better 
than  the  Navy  officers,  for  a  naval  cruise  is  the  only  real  escape 
from  publicity  which  that  cheerful  but  overburdened  young 
man  ever  gets.  Informal  visits  to  the  movies  on  the  part  of 
younger  members  of  the  Royal  Family  are,  of  course,  common 
enough.  But — apart  from  these  quiet  excursions  of  Prince 
Edward — they  are  always  to  fashionable  West  End  cinemas. 
A  visit  of  King  George  or  Queen  Mary  to  a  theater  or  cinema 

18 


Illustrated    by 
Va  n    Arsdale 


is  invariably  a  state  occasion,  complete 
with  awning  and  red  carpet  on  the  side- 
walk, policemen  holding  back  the 
crowds,  the  inevitable  press  photogra- 
phers and  a  roped-off  enclosure  in  the 
auditorium  for  the  royal  party. 

These  visits  are  not  pleasure  excur- 
sions but  duties  •'ndertaken  to  give  the 
royal  cachet  to  worthy  and  essentially 
patriotic  pictures.  The  showing  of  prac- 
tically all  historical  films  of  England's 
share  in  the  war,  such  as  "Q.  Ships," 
"Mons,"  and  "The  Somme,"  have  been 
publicly  attended  by  the  King  or  Queen 
— and  consequently  boosted  into  greater 
popularity. 

WHEN  in  search  of  undiluted  movie 
entertainment,  Their  Majesties 
hold  "command  performances"  in  the 
privacy  of  their  palaces,  Buckingham, 
Windsor  or  Balmoral.  "The  Divine 
Lady"  and  "The  Gold  Rush"  are  among 
the  famous  films  which  have  been  shown 
in  this  way  to  the  King  and  Queen. 

Without  any  question  Charlie  Chaplin 
is  the  first  favorite  of  every  member  of 
the  Royal  Family,  with  the  possible 
exception  of  Princess  Mary,  who  is  not 
renowned  for  her  sense  of  humor.  At 
least,  he  was  until  his  last  visit  to 
Europe. 

When  "The  Gold  Rush"  was  playing 
in  London,  young  Prince  George  broke  camp  to  see  it.  He  was 
then  at  Aldershot  with  his  regiment  and  motored  to  London 
without  leave  from  his  commanding  officer,  to  collect  a  laugh 
from  the  great  comedian.  Recognized  in  the  lobby,  he  asked 
the  management  to  keep  his  visit  a  secret. 

Unhappily,  the  old  spirit  of  loyalty-at-any-cost  does  not 
always  obtain  in  the  English  show  business.  Someone  tele- 
phoned the  newspapers. 

I  never  heard  whether  Prince  George  got  solitary  confinement 
or  just  three  days'  C.  B.  The  one  thing  that  is  certain  is  that 
his  royal  blood  would  not  in  the  least  mitigate  the  rigorous 
course  of  ordinary  army  discipline.  Whatever  punishment  he 
got,  it  was  just  what  would  be  meted  out  to  any  obscure  lieu- 
tenant of  lesser  birth.  And  whatever  it  was,  the  Prince  would 
take  it  on  the  chin. 

Talkies  are  not  yet  popular  with  the  older  and  more  con- 
servative members  of  the  Royal  Family,  but  the  younger  mem- 
bers are  enthusiastic  fans  of  the  audible  screen.  When  in 
London,  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of  York  frequently  slip  into  the 
Plaza,  the  popular  Paramount  house  in  the  West  End.  They 
come  unannounced  and  buy  their  tickets  but  are,  of  course, 
invariably  recognized  by  theater  officials  and  specially  escorted 
to  their  seats. 

ON  one  occasion  the  Duke  of  York  and  his  aide  secured  the 
last  two  seats  available  in  the  circle  (considered  in  England 
the  best  part  of  the  house)  greatly  to  the  disgust  of  a  couple 
who  came  in  immediately  after  them  and  who  loudly  voiced 
their  displeasure  at  having  to  stand. 

The  Duke  and  his  companion,  unrecognized  in  the  darkness, 
at  once  insisted  that  the  couple  take  their  seats  while  they  stood 
at  the  back — to  the  horror  and  consternation  of  the  Plaza 
officials.  Usherettes  in  all  parts  of  the  house  were  notified  to 
grab  and  hold  for  the  Duke  the  first  two  vacated  seats  and, 
although  His  Highness  did  not  have  to  stand  more  than  ten 
minutes,  the  incident  serves  to  show  that  a  nobleman  can  on 
occasion  be  as  democratic  as  any  fan. 

Indeed,  one  may  with  pardonable  pride  go  further  and  record 
that  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of  York  have  been  observed  sur- 
reptitiously holding  hands  during  the  screening  of  a  movie. 
Not,  of  course,  before  their  marriage.  A  bachelor  prince  never 
flirts.    Of  course  not!    Oh,  my,  no! 

The  tastes  of  the  princes,  as  regards  the  type  of  film  they 
prefer,  vary  considerably.    The    [  please  turn  to  page  116  ] 


This  is  a  "boiled  shirt"  moment  in  the  life  of  a 
young  gangster.  Meet  James  Cagney  who  puts 
a  real  punch  in  "The  Public  Enemy."  This  red- 
headed Irishman  is  on  his  way  up — watch  him! 


Close-up  of  what  the  Irishman  said  to  the 
Englishman — but  maybe  Jimmy  Cagney  has 
lapsed  into  Yiddish.  Anyway,  Mr.  Arliss  looks 
interested  in  this  scene  from  "The  Millionaire" 


Jimmy  from  the  "Jun 


ON  the  afternoon  of  July  1 7,  1904, 
the  swinging  doors  of  John 
Cagney's  saloon  on  Avenue  D, 
near  Tenth  Street,  New  York, 
banged  open.  John  Cagney  himself  strode  in,  an  expansive 
grin  on  his  Irish  face. 

"The  drinks,"  he  bellowed,  "is  on  me!  Set  'em  up — an'  see 
what  the  boys  in  the  back  room'll  have." 

Mr.  Cagney's  customers,  needing  no  further  parley  at  that 
moment,  drank. 

When  his  schooner  was  empty,  a  certain  one  of  them  drew 
the  back  of  his  hand  across  his  foamy  lips  and  raised  the 
question. 

"An'  phwat'll  the  free  drinks  bein'  fer,  Misther  Cagney?" 

"Because,"  roared  John  Cagney,  "th'  missus  has  just 
brought  another  Cagney  into  the  world,  an'  he's  got  red  hair, 
an'  his  name  is  Jim." 

Whereat  the  pride  of  parenthood  became  so  strong  that  Mr. 
Cagney  bought  another  round  of  drinks  for  the  house.  So  was 
announced  to  the  world  the  advent  of  James  Cagney — 

— and  the  piano  player  in  Polonsky's  movie  nickelodeon  down 
the  street  never  missed  a  note.  Nothing  seemed  more  un- 
related at  that  moment  than  the  flickering  screen  of  the 
nickelodeon,  and  the  birth  of  a  red-haired  Irish  saloonkeeper's 
kid,  named  James  Cagney. 

And,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  for  more  than  a  score  of  the  years 
Jimmy  Cagney  has  lived  since  then,  the  relationship  continued 
nil.  Jimmy  grew  up  just  like  hundreds  of  other  kids — Irish  and 
Jewish  and  other  kinds — in  the  "Guerilla  Jungle,"  which  was 
the  cop's  name  for  the  district  where  Jimmy  was  born. 

Jimmy  wasn't  any  tougher  than  the  other  kids.  And  he 
wasn't  any  un-tougher.  Kids  in  a  district  cops  called  a 
"Guerilla  Jungle"  don't  wear  Little  Lord  Fauntleroy  collars 
and  airs. 


By  Harry  Lang 


Jimmy  learned  from  environment  that 
the  proper  way  to  smoke  a  cigarette  in  his 
social  circle  was  to  let  it  hang  from  your 
lower  lip. 
He  learned  how  to  clip  a  guy  on  the  jaw  and  send  him  listen- 
ing to  birdies.     He  learned  words  and  phrases  that  are  not  in 
primers  and  first  readers.    He  learned  how  to  speak  Yiddish! — 
but  he  never  let  his  father  know. 

And  even  today,  in  Hollywood,  where  James  Cagney  is  sud- 
denly one  of  the  screen's  newest  sensations,  the  red-haired  little 
Irishman  suddenly  convulses  a  party,  now  and  then,  by  break- 
ing out  into  a  torrent  of  perfect  Yiddish.  It's  pretty  well 
understood  in  Hollywood,  and  always  somebody  laughs  at  what 
Jimmy's  Irish  pan  is  saying  in  Yiddish.  But  it  can't  be  printed, 
usually. 

BUT  that's  getting  away  from  the  story  of  Jimmy's  start  in 
life — and  the  explanation  to  the  question  that  has  been  bother- 
ing movie  fans'  minds  ever  since  "The  Public  Enemy"  burst 
onto  the  screen  as  the  newest  and  most  terrifying  of  the  current 
output  of  gangster  films. 

Fans,  seeing  Cagney  swaggering  through  the  amazing  se- 
quences of  this  picture — seeing  him  be  tough,  talk  tough,  act 
tough;  seeing  him  clip  a  dame  on  the  jaw  for  getting  funny  with 
him;  seeing  him  doing  a  hundred  and  one  other  things  along 
that  line  with  an  amazing  naturalness— are  asking  how  the 
youngster  can  be  that  good  an  actor. 

The  answer  is  that  Jimmy  Cagney  isn't  an  actor  when  he 
portrays  those  roles  on  the  screen.  In  that  part,  Jimmy  Cagney 
is  much  less  an  actor  than  he  is  when  he's  off  the  screen,  trying 
to  act  like  another  citizen  of  Hollywood.  On  the  screen  in  'The 
Public  Enemy,"  Jimmy  is  actually  reliving  the  life  he  was  part 
and  parcel  of  throughout  the  formative  years  of  his  life.  It's 
just  a  cinch  for  Jimmy!  [  please  turn  to  page  1 14  \ 

I.Q 


THE  NATIONAL   GUIDE  TO   MOTION    PICTURES 


^r 


A  FREE  SOVL—M-G-M 


THE  picture  follows,  almost  exactly,  Adela  Rogers  St. 
Johns'  splendid  novel  of  the  same  name.  Lionel  Barry- 
more's  performance  in  the  role  of  a  brilliant  but  heavy- 
drinking  criminal  lawyer  is  magnificent. 

Norma  Shearer  is  excellent  and  handles  the  part  of  his 
daughter  perfectly.  Her  clothes  are  breath-taking  in  their 
daring.  But  you  couldn't  get  away  with  them  in  your 
drawing-room. 

Clark  Gable  and  Leslie  Howard  are  both  grand.  The 
story  concerns  a  modern  girl,  brought  up  by  her  clever  but 
erratic  father  to  do  exactly  as  she  pleases — to  be  "a  free 
soul." 

She  pleases  to  have  a  sordid  affair  with  a  gambler,  whom 
she  discovers  to  be  a  cad.     By  all  means,  see  it! 


* 


SMART  MONEY— Warners 


THIS  moves  as  rapidly  as  the  money  on  the  gambling 
tables  in  it.  Laughs  and  excitement  come  in  carload  lots 
from  the  first  shot  to  the  last. 

Edward  Robinson  checks  up  another  fine  performance,  as 
he  did  in  "Little  Caesar."  No,  he's  not  a  gangster.  Just  a 
gambler.  He  rises  from  a  small  town  barber,  whom  the 
cards,  dice  and  horses  favor,  to  a  gambling  king. 

Blondes  are  his  weakness.  They're  as  unlucky  as  the 
tables  are  lucky.  Incidentally,  they  come  like  street  cars; 
one  right  after  another.  Gentlemen  who  prefer  blondes 
should  not  miss  the  opportunity  offered  to  look  'em  over  in 
this  picture. 

Evalyn  Knapp,  Noel  Francis,  Margaret  Livingston,  and 
Gladys  Lloyd  (Mrs.  Edward  Robinson)  are  a  few  of  the  girls. 

50 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

(beq.  v.  s.  fat.  off.)      fl  Jp 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


* 


THE  SMILING  LIEUTENANT— Paramount 


WITH  Herr  Lubitsch  leading  him  by  the  hand,  back 
comes  Chevalier  in  one  of  the  breeziest  and  most  tune- 
ful pieces  of  entertainment  that  we  have  seen  in  a  long  time. 
And  what  a  relief  this  is,  too,  from  some  of  the  current  types 
of  pictures! 

Here  is  Chevalier  at  his  best,  as  an  Austrian  lieutenant  in 
love  with  a  girl  orchestra  leader  (Claudette  Colbert)  but 
forced  into  marrying  a  princess  of  one  of  those  George  Barr 
McCutcheon  kingdoms.  It's  really  an  educational  film  for 
girls  who  are  inclined  to  be  a  little  too  old-fashioned! 

If  we  must  have  man-and-woman  and  triangle  stories  in 
films,  please  let  Mr.  Lubitsch  do  them.  He  can  put  over  a 
red-hot  love  affair  and  dare  the  censors  to  say  it  is  anything 
but  a  game  of  checkers.  The  audience  just  grins  and 
chuckles  and  laughs  throughout.  It's  a  cure  for  these  de- 
pression blues. 

The  music  is  so  generally  good  that  there  is  hardly  any 
outstanding  hit.  ||  Miriam  Hopkins  is  great  as  the  princess, 
Claudette  Colbert  is  lovely,  and  you  will  scream  with 
laughter  at  George  Barbier,  as  the  king  of  the  hokum  king- 
dom. And,  girls,  just  between  us,  notice  how  those  actresses 
sock  each  other!     J  a  wohl,  Herr  Lubitsch. 


SAVES    YOUR    PICTURE    TIME    AND    MONEY 


The  Best  Pictures  of  the  Month 

THE  SMILING  LIEUTENANT     DADDY  LONG  LEGS 
A  FREE  SOUL  SMART  MONEY 

YOUNG  DONOVAN'S  KID       THE  VICE  SQUAD 
THE  LAWYER'S  SECRET 

The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 

Janet  Gaynor  in  "Daddy  Long  Legs" 

Warner  Baxter  in  "Daddy  Long  Legs" 

Lionel  Barrymore  in  "A  Free  Soul" 

Norma  Shearer  in  "A  Free  Soul" 

Paul  Lukas  in  "The  Vice  Squad" 

Edward  Robirson  in  "Smart  Money" 

Jackie  Cooper  in  "Young  Donovan's  Kid" 

Maurice  Chevalier  in  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant" 

Claudette  Colbert  in  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant" 

Miriam  Hopkins  in  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant" 

Charles  Rogers  in  "The  Lawyer's  Secret" 

Elissa  Landi  in  "Always  Goodbye" 
John  Barrymore  in  "The  Mad  Genius" 

Evelyn  Brent  in  "The  Mad  Parade" 

Norman  Foster  in  "Up  Pops  the  Devil" 

Will  Rogers  in  "Young  as  You  Feel" 

Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  in  "Chances" 

Regis  Toomey  in   "Kick  In" 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  reviewed  will  be  found  on  page  136 


it 


DADDY  LONG  LEGS— Fox 


AFTER  the  welter  of  "gun  operas"  and  pictures  that  reek 
with  sex,  "Daddy  Long  Legs"  comes  to  the  screen  like  a 
breath  of  sweetness  from  a  spring  meadow.  Janet  Gaynor, 
as  the  spunky  orphanage  kid,  Judy  Abbot! ,  and  Warner 
Baxter,  as  the  confirmed  bachelor  who  adopts  and  then  falls 
in  love  with  her,  make  a  remarkable  team.  Both  are  charm- 
ing. This  is  the  wistful,  sweet  Janet  you  have  always  known. 
Here  is  a  role  that  seems  just  suited  to  her. 

The  silent  version,  which  Mary  Pickford  did  so  many 
years  ago,  was  one  of  her  greatest  pictures.  But  the  talkie- 
version  is  much  better.  As  a  stage  play  it  was  one  of  Ruth 
Chatterton's  great  successes  of  the  theater. 

There  are  no  sex  problems,  no  cocktail  drinking — just  a 
great,  fine,  refreshing  dash  of  sentiment  and  human  interest. 
You'll  love  the  scenes  of  Janet  and  the  rest  of  the  little 
orphans. 

Una  Merkel  and  a  new  lad  named  John  Arledge,  with 
Southern  accents  that  would  make  Stepin  Fetchit  sound  like 
a  Yankee,  get  plenty  of  laughs. 

Encourage  producers  to  make  such  pictures  by  patroniz- 
ing this  one.  You  will  get  your  money's  worth — and  plenty 
more.    The  children  will  love  it,  too. 


-k 


YOUNG  DONOVAN'S  KID— Radio  Pictures 


AND  now  it's  Richard  Dix's  turn  to  essay  a  gangster 
thriller — will  there  never  be  an  end  to  these?  But  this 
one  points  a  nice  moral  lesson  and  it's  full  of  punch.  It's 
from  the  Rex  Beach  story,  "Big  Brother,"  once  made  as  a 
silent  picture. 

However,  that  won't  interest  you  as  much  as  the  fact  that 
seven-year-old  Jackie  Cooper,  the  screen's  new  child  wonder, 
steals  this  picture  right  from  the  star's  nose.  Dix  gives  a  fine 
performance,  however. 

Jackie  is  magnificent  as  the  gangster's  kid.  He'll  make 
you  cry  again — and  laugh,  too. 

There  is  plenty  of  excitement  in  this,  and  plenty  of  sus- 
pense. 

Altogether,  it's  a  swell  show.    Don't  miss  it. 


ft 


THE  VICE  SQUAD— Paramount 


BESIDES  being  something  you'll  enjoy,  this  is  a  picture 
you'll  think  about.  Don't  be  alarmed.  It  isn't  a  problem 
piece,  but  the  situation  is  tremendous  and  everyone's  atti- 
tude is  understandable.  You  know  why  the  characters 
played  by  Paul  Lukas,  Kay  Francis  and  Helen  Johnson 
behave  as  they  do.    You  forget  they  are  actors  playing  parts. 

The  story  concerns  the  life  of  a  gentleman,  forced  to  be- 
come a  stool-pigeon,  who  discovers  a  way  to  happiness,  but 
sacrifices  that  happiness  upon  the  altar  of  ethics.  It's  a 
real  plot  and  not  one  of  your  wishy-washy  yarns. 

The  starring  role  was  built  for  William  Powell  before  he 
went  to  Warners,  but  Paul  Lukas  leaves  nothing  undone 
in  it.  Kay  Francis,  Helen  Johnson  and  Esther  Howard  are 
excellent. 

61 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List! 


THE 

LAWYER'S 
SECRET— 
Paramount 


ALWAYS 

goodbye- 
Fox 


TAKE  a  look  at  this  cast — Clive  Brook,  Charles  Rogers, 
Richard  Arlen,  Fay  Wray,  Jean  Arthur!  Satisfied?  And 
every  one  of  them  turns  in  an  elegant  performance.  Charles 
isn't  the  debutante's  delight  after  this — no  siree!  He's  a  first- 
class  actor  as  a  boy  who  tries  to  throw  blame  for  a  murder  on 
someone  else.  It's  an  intense,  brittle  drama.  See  it  by  all 
means! 


THIS  Elissa  Landi  has  everything — charm,  grace,  beauty  and 
that  vital  thing  called  glamour.  Won't  some  kind  sir  or 
madame  find  a  story  big  enough  for  her?  This  isn't  bad  in  a 
light,  melodramatic  way  (there  are  diamond  collectors  and  men 
from  Scotland  Yard)  but  it's  ordinary.  Lewis  Stone  and  Paul 
Cavanagh  have  the  male  leads.  See  la  Landi,  anyhow,  and 
don't  worry  about  the  story. 


HIGH 
STAKES— 
Radio  Pictures 


THE  MAD 
GENIUS— 
Warners 


WITHOUT  Lowell  Sherman  this  wouldn't  be  so  amusing, 
but  with  him  we  can't  do  less  than  advise  you  to  see  it. 
That  boy  can  act.  He  makes  you  laugh  even  when  you  know 
his  remarks  aren't  particularly  funny.  He's  an  amateur 
detective  playing  drunk  in  order  to  check  on  Mae  Murray. 
Mae's  playing  for  high  stakes.  She's  supposed  to  be  affected 
in  this  picture. 


MAGNIFICENTLY  produced  and  photographed,  but 
Barrymore's  artistry  is  so  perfect  that  "  The  Mad  Genius" 
leaves  a  bad  taste.  The  crippled  son  of  a  great  danseuse  can 
realize  his  own  ambitions  as  a  dancer  only  through  a  protege. 
The  protege  falls  in  love  with  a  girl  in  his  ballet.  Marian 
Marsh,  who  played  Trilby,  is  again  the  feminine  lead  and  is 
beautiful,  as  well  as  convincing. 


THE  MAD 
PARADE— 
Liberty  Prod. 


UP  POPS  THE 

DEVIL— 

Paramount 


BEFORE  you  swear  off  all  war  pictures  forever,  see  this  and 
get  a  final  thrill.  It's  that  all-woman  war  film  you've  been 
hearing  about.  This  tale  of  women's  hearts  is  even  more 
poignant  than  any  picturization  of  what  war  did  to  men. 
Evelyn  Brent,  brilliant  as  a  diamond,  gives  a  grand  perform- 
ance. June  Clyde  steals  second  dramatic  honors.  Lilyan 
Tashman,  Louise  Fazenda,  Fritzi  Ridgeway  rate  special  praise. 

52 


STEVE,  a  young  man  tied  to  an  advertising  desk,  thinks  he 
could  write  the  Great  American  Novel  if  he  had  time.  A  tine, 
his  wife,  secures  a  job  in  the  chorus.  He  stays  home  and  tries 
to  write.  Norman  Foster  is  fine  as  Steve  and  Carole  Lombard 
wins  sympathy  for  Anne.  Skeets  Gallagher,  Stuart  Erwin  and 
Lilyan  Tashman  help  along.  Sprightly  dialogue  and  a  fine  por- 
trayal of  the  spirit  of  today. 


The   First   and    Best   Talkie    Reviews! 


YOUNG  AS 

you  feel- 
Fox 


TRAVELING 
HUSBANDS— 
Radio  Pictures 


ANOTHER  grand  Will  Rogers  film,  funny  enough  to  make 
you  forget  a  toothache.  In  this  Will  is  a  drab,  middle-aged 
business  man  who  suddenly  discovers  that  a  little  dash  of  cham- 
pagne and  Fifi  Dorsay  are  enough  to  make  him  younger  than 
his  sons.  You'll  hear  plenty  of  risque  lines,  but  no  vicious- 
ness.  Good  cast,  with  Lucien  Littlefield  a  scream,  and  Fifi 
doing  her  best  work. 


YOU'VE  heard  the  story  about  the  traveling  salesman — 
now's  your  chance  to  see  if  it's  true.  They're  a  pretty 
naughty  lot,  but  they're  funny.  The  picture  is  risque  without 
being  smutty,  humorous  and  yet  dramatic.  The  scene  between 
Evelyn  Brent,  the  woman-on-the-road,  and  Dorothy  Peterson, 
the  wife,  is  worth  the  price  of  admission.  Top-notch  acting;  a 
completely  new  story.     Go  see  it. 


JUST  A 

GIGOLO- 

M-G-M 


KICK  IN— 
Paramount 


OOOOOH,  naughty,  naughty  .  .  .  ! — but  amusing.  It 
deals  with  the  theory  of  a  young  bachelor  that  no  woman 
is  a  "iw-woman"  to  him.  He  sets  out  to  prove  that,  within 
thirty  days,  he  can  have  his  way  with  the  damsel  chosen  as  his 
fiancee  by  his  uncle.  You'll  get  a  new  idea  of  William  Haines' 
ability  as  an  actor.  The  children  should  stay  home  and  listen 
to  the  radio. 


POOR  Clara  Bow.  They  tried  to  make  her  dramatic  and 
sympathetic  and  emotional  in  this  one,  but  it's  a  pretty  sorry 
attempt.  Of  course,  it  might  have  been  better  if  the  story  were 
not  about  a  couple  of  young  racketeers  who  try  to  follow  the 
straight  and  narrow  path.  Old  as  last  year's  hat.  Regis 
Toomey  is  great,  but  the  film  just  doesn't  click.  Good  try, 
Clara;  tough  luck. 


CHANCES— 
First  National 


WOMEN  OF 
ALL  NATIONS 
—Fox 


YOUNG  Doug's  first  starring  picture  is  a  war  thriller — an 
emotion-twisting  tale  of  two  brothers'  love  for  the  same  girl, 
pictured  in  a  war  setting  that  doubles  the  force  of  the  story  of 
how  the  two  loves  clash — brother-love  and  woman-love.  Not 
a  great  picture,  yet  splendid  entertainment.  Anthony  Bushell 
ranks  nearly  as  high  as  Fairbanks.  Rose  Hobart  adds  a 
strangely  fascinating  characterization. 


FOLLOWING  a  preview,  club  women  raised  such  a  fuss  that 
it  was  taken  back  to  the  studio  to  be  toned  down.  Edmund 
Lowe  and  Victor  McLaglen  as  Quirt  and  Flagg  of  "What  Price 
Glory"  fame,  continue  their  adventures.  The  picture  has  been 
carefully  produced  and  the  situations  objected  to  are  left  to  be 
finished  in  the  minds  of  the  audience.     Not  a  family  picture. 

[  ADDITIONAL    REVIEWS    ON    PAGE    107  ] 

53 


Out  on  the  set,  Hector  found  a  long- 
haired writer  who  talked  his  language. 
"You're  not  givin'  me  any  news, 
kid,"  he  told  Hector.  "Dig  out 
all  the  old  films  this  dame  has 
been  in  and  kinda  meld  them  to- 
gether. That  way  you'll  write  some- 
thing   they    liked    once,     anyway" 


ontact 


By 

Charles 
Francis    Coe 


THE  Associate  Producer  dropped  thoughtfully  into  the 
judge's  chair  which  tilted  invitingly  behind  an  expansive 
walnut  desk  decorated  with  expensive  inkwells,  gold 
pens,  crystal  ash  trays  and  nondescript  but  important 
appearing  papers.  The  harassed  executive  looked  over  this 
monumental  array  of  equipment  into  the  somewhat  doleful  eyes 
of  a  long-haired  individual  whose  features  were  draped  in  the 
habiliments  of  continuous  and  unending  disappointment. 

"You  see  how  it  is,  Hector,"  the  executive  pointed  out.  "I 
don't  say  your  story  is  a  bad  one.  I  simply  say  that  it  does  not 
fit  into  our  production  schedule.    In  the  first  place,  we  haven't 

U 


a  star  for  it.  The  picture  business  is  changing  all  the  time. 
Developing  and  expanding.    It  is  an  art  now." 

He  leaned  forward  so  that  the  chair  creaked.  He  reached 
across  the  great  desk  and  opened  a  silver  cigarette  box.  He 
helped  himself  and  glanced  inquiringly  at  the  stricken  author, 
who  declined  with  a  doleful  shake  of  the  head. 

"Yes,"  the  Associate  Producer  continued  through  a  smoke- 
cloud  which  wreathed  his  face,  "pictures  have  now  reached  the 
status  of  art.  Each  of  us  producers  is  an  expert  in  our  line. 
We  are  turning  out  picture  plays  on  schedule.  In  order  to  do 
this,  we  must  be  practical  as  well  as  artistic.     Certain  actors 


Proving  that,  in  Holly - 

oodas  everyplace  else, 

isn  't  what  you  do  but 

s  the  way  you  do  it 


Illustrated   by    Frank    Godwin 

fit  certain  parts.  And  we  educate  the  public  to  expect  those 
actors  in  those  parts. 

"Unfortunately,  your  story,  which  I  must  confess  is  creaky  in 
several  points  but  might  be  bolstered  up,  cannot,  in  any  event, 
be  made  to  fit  our  stars."  He  shrugged  and  smiled  as  benignly 
as  was  possible  under  the  circumstances.  The  author  dampened 
his  lips  with  a  darting  tongue. 

"Couldn't  it  be  changed,  sir?"  he  asked. 

"I  hardly  see  how.  Hector.  What  we  must  have  in  pictures 
is  a  portrayal  of  the  fundamental  and  underlying  human 
emotions." 

"What  are  they?"  Hector  asked  timidly. 

"Well,"  the  producer  shrugged,  "vou  know  that  as  well  as 
I  do." 

"Unfortunately,  I  don't,"  Hector  insisted  mildly. 

The  Associate  Producer  seemed  somewhat  embarrassed. 
"Well,"  he  drawled,  "for  instance,  love." 

"Isn't  there  love  in  my  story?" 

"Well,  I  suppose  there  is.    But  you  really  didn't  get  it  across." 

"How  does  anybody  get  love  across?"  Hector  asked.  "My 
two  people  got  married,  didn't  they?" 


"That  isn't  necessarily  love,"  the  pro- 
ducer snapped. 

"They  married  for  love,"  Hector 
argued  gently.  "There  was  no  money  in- 
volved in  the  theme  or  any  of  the  other 
causes  for  marriage."  He  paused  a 
moment  and  the  producer  puffed  at  his 
cigarette. 

"If  love  is  a  human,  underlying  emo- 
tion," Hector  suggested  quietly,  "I  pre- 
sume also  that  hate  would  be  so  classified." 
"Oh,"  the  producer  exploded,  "lay  off 
hate,  Hector!  We  can't  do  nothing  with 
hate." 

"Why  not?" 

"Censors.  Boy,  what  censors  do  when 
we  show  hate  on  the  screen!" 

"I  have  given  such  matters  a  great  deal 
of  study,"  Hector  went  on  quietly,  "and 
I  am  convinced  that  the  fundamental 
thing  is  always  simple.  My  story  is  a 
good,  old-fashioned,  simple  love  story.  I 
figured  if  the  director  wanted  to  throw  in 
a  few  modest  boudoir  scenes  with  an 
electric  kiss  every  ten  feet  in  the  picture, 
he  could  do  that  himself." 

"It  all  depends  on  who  the  actors  are. 
Maybe  your  story's  too  simple.  It  just 
don't  click,  anyway,"  the  producer  in- 
sisted impatiently. 

"The  greatest  pictures  ever  made  had 
the  simplest  stories,"  Hector  said. 

The  producer  leaned  forward  and  began 
rustling  the  convenient  pile  of  papers  on  his  desk.  Hector 
reached  sorrowfully  for  his  manuscript  and  hat. 

"I  still  think  there's  a  good  picture  in  this  script,"  he  said 
stubbornly.  "Sooner  or  later,  somebody's  going  to  see  it  and 
make  it." 

"Mebbe  so,"  the  producer  shrugged.  "As  it  is,  though,  I 
wouldn't  pay  you  a  thousand  dollars  for  it." 

"All  I'm  asking  is  five,"  Hector  said.  "What's  five  thousand 
dollars  for  a  story  out  of  which  you're  going  to  spend  three  or 
four  hundred  thousand  making  a  picture?" 

"Well,"  the  producer  grinned  tolerantly.  "Try  again, 
Hector,  if  you  like.    We'll  always  be  glad  to  read  your  stuff." 

"A  4"AYBE  if  you  happened  to  like  this  one  and  sent  it  to 
1  Vlsomebody  else,  they  wouldn't.    Then  what  would  I  do?" 

Once  again,  the  Associate  Producer  shrugged. 

"The  trouble  is,"  Hector  argued,  "that  the  real  creative 
people  out  here  sit  up  nights  and  struggle  to  create  something 
new.  And  the  money  people,  those  who  actually  make  the 
pictures,  refuse  to  make  anything  that  hasn't  been  made 
before  and  proved  successful.  The  result  is  that  all  pictures 
are  exactly  alike.  All  producers  blind  themselves  to  the  real 
reason  and  go  on  hollering  for  some  new  angle. 

"" 


"This  story  of  mine  is  a  good,  sound,  dramatic  story  with  a 
pretty  little  love  interest  all  the  way  through.  It  deals  ab- 
solutely with  fundamental  things  and  you  couldn't  go  wrong 
with  it.  It  won't  be  a  record-breaking  picture,  but  it's  bound 
to  be  a  profitable  one." 

The  producer  rattled  the  papers  again  more  suggestively. 
He  smiled  through  cigarette  smoke  at  the  disappointed  author. 

"I'm  sorry,  Hector,  that  it  don't  please  us.  But  it  isn't  goin' 
to  help  things  to  have  you  stand  there  and  argue  with  me. 
After  all,  if  I  gotta  take  the  time  to  read  your  stories  and  after 
that  argue  about  them,  I  might  better  not  pay  any  attention 
to  them  at  all.  I  read  this  story  and  I  don't  see  a  picture  in  it 
for  us.  I  hope  you'll  be  able  to  sell  it  to  somebody  else. 
Honestly,  I  speak  right  from  the  heart,  kid,  when  I  say  to  you 
that  if  I  hear  next  week  that  somebody  has  paid  a  fabulous 
price  for  'The  Old  Mill,'  I'll  be  happier  than  you  are." 

By  this  time  the  author  was  at  the  door.  He  wet  his  lips 
again  and  turned  as  though  to  offer  further  comment.  In  this, 
however,  he  desisted  and  the  producer  said: 

"I'll  tell  you,  Hector,  authors  don't  understand  business  very 
well.     Why  don't  you  get  yourself  an  agent?" 

"Agent?"  Hector  asked.  "What  good  would  an  agent  do 
me?" 

"Well,"  the  producer  said,  "you'd  be  surprised.  I  was  going 
through  the  records  of  the  studio  here  a  short  time  ago  and  I 
found  that  of  the  stories  we  bought  through  our  Scenario  De- 
partment, almost  seventy  per  cent  came  to  us  through  agents. 
They  understand  about  what  we  want,  you  see,  and  they  know 
the  sort  of  stories  to  hand  us." 

""\/"OU  think,"  Hector  asked,  "that  an  agent  would  have  a 

1  better  chance  of  selling  'The  Old  Mill'  for  me  than  I  have 
myself?" 

"Well,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  I  do." 

"But  I  don't  know  any  agents." 

"Well,"  the  producer  said  tolerantly,  "why  don't  you  drop  in 
and  see  Sol  Sluffin?   He's  a  live  wire.    Tell  him  I  said  that 


you've  really  got  something  that  will  come  out  sooner  or  later." 
"All  right,"  Hector  said  thoughtfully.    "I  guess  I'll  do  that. 

May  I  say  you  sent  me?" 

"Sure,  that's  all  right.    I  think  you've  got  something  in  you 

which  experience  will  bring  out." 


SOL  SLUFFIN,  in  turn,  sat  behind  his  desk  and  looked  at  the 
doleful  Hector.  The  author  had  a  rolled  manuscript  under 
his  arm  and  stood  before  the  agent  characteristically  moistening 
his  lips  with  a  darting  tongue. 

"You  understand  the  purpose  of  my  visit,  Mr.  Sluffin, "  he 
began. 

"Oh,  yes,"  the  agent  nodded.  "Sure,  I  know  what  you're 
here  to  talk  about.    Sit  down,  boy." 

"I've  brought  the  story  with  me,"  Hector  said.  "I  don't 
suppose  you  could  talk  intelligently  until  you  read  it." 

Sol  shrugged  his  shoulders.  An  undulating  vibration  ran  up 
the  sides  of  his  thick  neck  and  across  an  array  of  four  chins. 

"Sure,  I  oughta  read  the  story,"  he  said,  "but  you  sit  there 
and  gimme  the  highlights." 

Briefly  as  he  could,  Hector  outlined  the  plot  of  "The  Old 
Mill." 

"No  synopsis  is  ever  a  satisfactory  description,  Mr.  Sluffin," 
he  finished.  "But  that  gives  you  the  general  idea.  I  hope 
you'll  read  the  story." 

"Sure  thing,"  Sol  nodded  violently.  "Throw  it  over  here. 
I'm  the  kind  of  a  guy  that  reads  a  story  very  fast.  How  many 
pages  you  got  here?"  He  unrolled  the  manuscript  and  ex- 
amined it.    His  eyebrows  rose  in  surprise. 

"What!"  he  exclaimed.  "You  got  twenty-six  typewritten 
pages  just  for  one  short  story?  My  God,  lad,  there  ain't  a 
producer  in  Hollywood  ever  read  twenty-six  pages  of  any  story 
in  the  world!" 

"It  only  runs  about  seven  thousand  words,"  Hector  said. 
"Most  of  the  magazines  of  the  better  grade  print  stories  of  that 

length."  [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  132  ] 


A  smiling  million— right  to  the  penny,  for  that's  what  the  combined  yearly  salary  of  this  beaming  group  of  17  Para- 
mount stars  amounts  to.  In  case  the  sight  of  so  much  money  has  made  you  blink,  we'll  identify  them  for  you.  Top 
row,  left  to  right:  Stuart  Erwin,  Eugene  Pallette,  Clive  Brook,  Kay  Francis,  Gary  Cooper,  Jack  Oakie,  Skeets 
Gallagher,  William  Boyd.  Second  row:  Richard  Arlen,  Carole  Lombard,  Wynne  Gibson,  Rosita  Moreno,  Norman 
Foster,  Sylvia  Sidney,  Lilyan  Tashman.   Mitzi  Green  and  Jackie  Searl  are  the  youngsters  in  front 


56 


Grive  Arbuckle  a  Ohance/ 


By 
James  R .  Quirk 


That's  the  unanimous  verdict 
of  the  motion  picture  democracy 
but  organized  moralists  and 
reformers  are  relentless  and 
unforgiving 


THE  motion  picture  public — that  vast 
army  which  pays  the  freight  and 
makes  the  movies  possible — has  given 
Photoplay  its  answer  to  the  question 
of  Roscoe  (Fatty)  Arbuckle's  return  to  the 
screen. 

And  its  answer — a  unanimous  answer — is: 
Let  Arbuckle  come  back. 

Out  of  thousands  of  letters  received  by 
Photoplay  Magazine  as  a  result  of  a  story 
in  the  March  issue  and  a  nation-wide  broad- 
cast, in  which  the  editor  of  Photoplay  made 
an  appeal  to  the  motion  picture  public  to 
express  its  opinion  on  the  Arbuckle  question, 
there  was  not  one  dissenting  voice.  As  one 
person  they  wrote  in  to  approve  Fatty's 
return. 

The  only  dissenters — and  we  must  admit 
this  was  not  unexpected — were  the  good 
folks  who  were  responsible  for  having  him 
barred  from  the  screen  ten  years  ago.  They 
are  still  unrelenting  and  unforgiving — and 
there  is  nothing  quite  so  unrelenting  and  unforgiving  as  a  pro- 
fessional moralist. 

In  the  article  in  the  March  issue  Arbuckle  was  quoted  as 
saying  that  all  he  wants  is  a  chance  to  work.  In  a  letter  to  the 
editor  of  Photoplay  he  says: 

"  I  have  no  desire  to  return  to  the  screen  as  an  actor.  In  the 
dark  hours  of  my  life  it  was  a  consolation  to  know  that  I  had 
given  happiness  to  millions  of  people. 
There  doesn't  seem  to  be  much  chance 
of  happiness  for  me.  No  man  can 
live  and  be  happy  without  work,  and 
all  I  want  is  to  be  permitted  to  use 
whatever  talents  and  training  I  have 
in  the  writing  and  direction  of  pictures 
under  my  own  name." 

That  doesn't  seem  to  be  much  to 
ask.  The  motion  picture  public  has 
given  its  decision  by  its  astonishing 
response  to  Photoplay's  appeal,  as- 
tonishing not  only  in  the  number  of 
letters  received,  but  in  the  absolute 
unanimity  of  expression. 


He  made  the  cleanest  com- 
edies ever  made  and  gave 
humanity   a   billion   laughs 


ONLY  the  Good  Folks  dissent. 
They  may  preach  the  precept, 
"  To  err  is  human,  to  forgive,  divine," 
but  they  don't  practice  it. 

The  attitude  of  Canon  William  S. 
Chase,  one  of  the  most  active  figures 
in  the  world  of  organized  reform,  is 
typical.    He  says: 

"I  have  no  personal  animosity  to- 
ward this  man,  but  I  think  it  very 
unwise  to  have  him  restored  at  this 
time  to  what  I  consider  a  very  im- 
portant moral  influence  in  this 
country." 

Most  of  the  others  avoided  the 
issue  and  declined  to  answer  Photo- 


-K  /TATHEW  BRADY,  San  Francisco 
district  attorney,  who  prosecuted 
Arbuckle  bitterly  through  three  trials, 
seeking  his  conviction,  says  Fatty  should 
be  permitted  to  go  into  business  and  earn 
his  own  living. 


"The  prosecution  at  the  time  of 
the  trial  gave  to  the  jury  and  the 
court  every  bit  of  evidence  it  had 
against  him,"  says  Mr.  Brady. 
"After  three  trials  the  jury  brought 
in  a  verdict  of  'not  guilty.'  After 
that  absolution  Arbuckle  should 
be  entitled  to  make  his  own  living 
in  his  own  way." 

And  that  from  the  man  who  foeght 
with  all  the  power  of  the  State  of  Cali- 
fornia behind  him,  with  only  one  purpose 
in  mind — to  put  Roscoe  behind  the  bars! 


PLAY'S  question,  but  Mrs.  R.  L.  Sisson,  of  tin- 
WOmen's  Federated  Club,  Potsdam,  New 
York,  replied: 

"There  are  too  many  good  artists.  I  have 
no  desire  to  see  one  of  such  notoriety." 

On  the  other  hand,  those  men  who  were 
most  active  at  Arbuckle's  court  trials,  the 
prosecuting  attorney  and  jurymen,  come  for- 
ward with  a  fine  exhibition  of  fair  play. 

Nat  Friedman,  a  juror  at  the  second  trial, 
who  voted  guilty,  says: 

"  I  feel  that  Arbuckle  is  a  victim  of  circum- 
stances. He  has  every  right  to  use  his  own 
name  in  moving  pictures  and  make  his  own 
income." 

AND  August  Fritze,  foreman  of  the  first 
jury  that  tried  Arbuckle,  says: 
"He  is  more  than  entitled  to  the  oppor- 
tunity to  resume  his  theatrical  career.   I  was 
foreman  of  the  first  jury  that  tried  him.   If  it 
had  not  been  for  one  woman,  he  would  have 
walked  out  of  court  a  free  man.    He  has  taken  a  lot  of  unde- 
served punishment.   What  is  there  to  gain  by  keeping  a  stigma 
over  Arbuckle's  head? 

"Officially,  he  is  innocent.    Three  juries  failed  to  prove  him 

guilty.    It  surely  is  not  fair  to  condemn  him  for  what  someone 

thinks  he  did.     Arbuckle's  contributions  to  the  screen  were 

always  commendable.   In  the  name  of  Americanism,  he  should 

be  permitted  to  go  his  own  way  un- 

worried." 

Photoplay  feels  that  the  verdict 
of  the  motion  picture  public  and  the 
men  quoted  above,  who  were  made 
familiar  with  every  phase  of  the 
charges  against  Arbuckle  and  the 
three  trials  that  resulted  from  them, 
should  be  accepted  as  final  and  that 
Roscoe  Arbuckle  is  entitled  to  work 
under  his  own  name. 

He  is  now  working  in  a  minor 
capacity  in  the  studios  in  Hollywood 
under  another  name.  There  is  no 
question  that  Arbuckle  is  one  of  the 
greatest  masters  of  picture  comedy  in 
Hollywood,  and  in  these  times  we 
need  laughter. 


NO  one  ever  accused  Arbuckle  of 
making  a  picture  that  wasn't 
clean.  Even  the  relentless  reformers 
have  to  admit  that.  He  was  a  fa- 
vorite of  the  children  and  that  is 
brought  out  forcibly  in  scores  of 
letters  received  from  parents  who  are 
readers  of  Photoplay  and  who  have 
taken  the  trouble  to  write  in  and  say 
that  he  should  be  given  a  chance  to 
work. 

And  now  there  is  a  still  greater 
[  please  turn  to  page  112  ] 

57 


7/ollywood's 


A  revealing  story  of  the  terrors 
that  beset  the  stars  and  turn  their 
hard  won  successes  into  worri- 
some  burdens   of  unhappiness 


Clara  Bow  had  good  reason  to  fear 
newspaper  publicity 


By    Ruth   Biery 


HOLLYWOOD'S  Age  of  Fear  is  the  Age  of  Success.  It 
is  when  the  stars  have  reached  the  summit  that  the 
horrors  of  a  terrific  nightmare  harass  them  and  fright 
of  the  future  becomes  an  obsession.  Ironically  enough, 
it  is  when  they  should  be  most  happy  that  they  become  most 
unhappy. 

Years  ago  when  Gloria  Swanson  and  her  first  husband, 
Wallace  Beery,  rode  around  Hollywood  in  a  great  yellow  car 
to  attract  attention  they  were  happy.  Their  seventy-five 
dollars  a  week  offered  security  in  the  present  and  encourage- 
ment for  the  future. 

When  Gloria  Swanson,  with  her  third  husband,  the  Marquis 
de  la  Falaise,  listened  to  the  acclaim  of  all  Hollywood  at  the 
premiere  of  "Madame  Sans  Gene,"  she  was  a  frightened  and 
unhappy  woman.  She  was  afraid  to  accept  $20,000  a  week 
from  Paramount  because  of  the  bad  stories  that  might  be 
rushed  into  production  to  guarantee  the  proper  returns  upon 
such  a  colossal  salary. 

Wallace  Beery  suffered  from  the  same  experience  Gloria  had 
feared.    He  made  "Behind  the  Front"  and  "We're  in  the  Navy 
Now"  for  Paramount.    They  were 
sensations.     He  says: 


EACH  cost  $500,000.  They 
were  well  produced.  The  ex- 
hibitors made  a  lot  of  money. 
The  producers  saw  a  chance  to 
cleanup.  'We  don't  care  whether 
we  kill  Beery  and  Hatton,'  they 
reasoned,  'we'll  make  three  or 
four  in  a  hurry,  sell  them  at  a  big 
increase  in  price,  and  clean  up.' 
They  did.  Such  silly  things  as 
'Fireman,  Save  My  Child.'  And 
they  killed  the  team  of  Beery  and 
Hatton. 

"When  M-G-M  released  'Min 
and  Bill'  I  begged  them  not  to 
kill  Dressier  and  Beery.  'Wait 
six  or  eight  months  and  then  let 
us  turn  out  another  one  as  good 
or  better.  Don't  wash  the  wel- 
come off  the  door-mat,'  I  said. 
Thank  heavens  they  are  waiting." 

Climbing  the  Hollywood  ladder 
you  don't  have  the  same  fear. 
Mary  Pickford  summarized  it  the 
other  day  when  she  said:  "While 
you  are  climbing  everyone  helps 
you.  When  you  are  there,  the  re- 
verse is  true.     On  the  top  you 

58 


Wallace  Beery  feared  bad  stories  would  ruin  the 
success  good  ones  had  earned 


must  make  your  own  decisions.  It  is  not  enough  to  have  acting 
ability.  You  must  be  a  clever  executive  and  able  to  judge  and 
manage  your  every  movement  shrewdly." 

The  greater  the  heights,  the  greater  the  fear.  I  doubt  if 
anyone  has  had  more  fears  than  Mary.  When  Doug,  Jr., 
married  Joan,  Mary  objected.  She  dreaded  the  thought  of 
"America's  Sweetheart"  becoming  a  grandmother. 

"America's  Sweetheart." 

"Queen  of  the  Movies." 

"Mistress  of  Pickfair." 

Think  of  the  titles  she  has  had  to  live  up  to. 

"  A  ND  I  didn't  choose  one,"  she  says  plaintively.  "The  press 
-tV-even  named  'Pickfair'  for  us.    And  it  was  one  Christmas 

night  when  I  was  playing  'Good  Little  Devil'  in  Baltimore  that 

I  first  heard  myself  called  'Queen  of  the  Movies.'     I  hated  it. 

I  turned  to  my  mother  and  said,  'It  makes  me  feel  like  a  snake 

charmer.'  " 

Yet,  she  has  been  afraid  not  to  live  up  to  the  titles  that  an 

adoring  public  heaped  upon  her. 

"When  abroad,"  she  went  on, 
"I  was  introduced  to  titled  people. 
They  entertained  us.  When  they 
come  to  this  country  it  is  only 
courteous  for  me  to  entertain 
them." 

But  in  doing  so  she  has  feared 
the  effect  of  this  "royalty  com- 
plex" upon  the  American  people. 
Life  is  comparatively  simple  for 
Anita  Page,  Carole  Lombard,  Joan 
Marsh,  Frank  Albertson,  William 
Bakewell  and  dozens  of  others 
who  are  on  the  lower  or  middle 
steps  of  the  ladder.  They  are 
living  in  hope,  waiting  for  the  one 
big  role  that  will  make  them. 

LEW  AYRES  knew  nothing  of 
real  fear  until  "All  Quiet  on  the 
Western  Front"  was  released  and 
he  was  trade-marked  a  sensation, 
for  fear  of  the  next  meal  is  small 
compared  to  fear  of  losing  an  in- 
come of  thousands  weekly.  For 
three  years  Charlie  Farrell  won  the 
popularity  contest  of  a  New  York 
newspaper.  This  year  Lew  Ayres 
nosed  Charlie  to  second  place. 
"The  Doorway  to  Hell,"  another 
good  picture,  helped  him  win  the 


A 


ge 


Of 


competition, 
great?"     He 


Now  he  wonders: 
asks    himself: 


'Will  my  next  picture  be  as 


"I've 
hard 


had     to 
for    my 


Dare  I  Marry  Lola  Lane  or  Any  Other  Young  Woman? 
Will  it  Hurt  My  Popularity  to  Get  Married? 

HE  has  many  examples.  If  he  reaches  the  heights  of  the  John 
Gilbert  of  silent  pictures,  every  move  of  his  marital  life  will 
be  followed  and  marked  for  or  against  him. 

Sue  Carol  reached  the  SI, 750  a  week  class.  Then  she  married 
Nick  Stuart.  Radio  Pictures  did  not  re- 
new Sue's  contract  in  May.  I  heard  a  well 
known  Hollywood  actress  tell  Sue  the 
other  day,  "If  you  will  pardon  me,  dear, 
there  has  been  too  much  of  Sue  and  Nick. 
It  has  hurt  your  sex  appeal  on  the  screen." 

How  much  Vilma  Banky's  and  Rod  La 
Rocque's  marriage  had  to  do  with  their 
turn  of  fortunes  is  problematical,  but  it 
had  its  share  of  responsibility. 

As  long  as  Johnny  Mack  Brown  remains 
a  leading  man  his  wife  is  not  tremendously 
important.  If  he  becomes  a  Gilbert  or  a 
Colman  or  a  Valentino,  he  will  be  unable 
to  keep  her  out  of  the  picture. 

The  public  was  trained  to  accept  Joan  Crawford  and  Doug, 
Jr.'s,  marriage  by  Joan's  cleverness.  They  told  the  public  they 
were  afraid,  until  the  public  pitied  and  begged  them  to  marry. 

Marriage  is  a  common  fear  of  the  Hollywood  successful. 

Dare  I  Make  Friends? 

FRIENDS  are  a  Hollywood  menace.  They  know  too  much. 
I  am  certain  Greta 
Garbo  would  have 
liked  turning  gangster 
and  taking  some  of 
her  friends  for  a  ride 
when  they  talked  , 
about  her. 

Adrian,  the  de-  m 
signer  for  Metro,  is  a 
friend  of  Greta.  I 
learned,  accidentally, 
that  Garbo  had  sent 
Adrian  flowers  when 
she  saw  the  clothes  he 
had  made  her  for 
"Romance."  I  went 
to  him  to  check  the 
story. 

"Please  don't  print 
it,"   he  asked.     "I  Richard  Dix  feared  the  big  salary 

wish    to   keep  her  checks  would  stop  before  he  be- 

friendship."  came  financially  independent 


Charlie  Chaplin,  "but  the 
trouble  of  it  is  that  things  don't 
get  any  easier.  It's  difficult  to 
get  to  the  top  of  any  tree,  but 
what's  more  difficult  is  to  stay 
there.  One's  got  to  go  on  beat- 
ing one's  self  all  the  time." 


Greta  Garbo  fears  the  harm  the  wag- 
ging of  friends'  tongues  will  do 


I  chatted  with  Mrs.  Jacques  Feyder,  wife  of  the  director  who 
is  frequently  seen  with  Garbo.  Mrs.  Feyder  pointed  with  pride 
to  a  picture  of  the  star  on  her  mantel.  "I  wish  I  could  talk 
about  her,"  she  said  simply,  "but  Miss  Garbo  comes  over  and 
plays  with  the  children.  The  children  adore  her.  She  would 
not  come  any  more  if  I  talked  about  her." 

I  doubt  if  there  is  a  really  successful 
man  or  woman  in  Hollywood  who  is  not 
afraid  of  his  intimates.  I  know  there  are 
many  who  keep  certain  intimates  only 
because  they  are  afraid  of  them. 


sweat     pretty 

success,"    says 


What  Shall  I  Do  With  My  Money? 
Shall  I  Put  It  into  Get-Rich-Quick 
Schemes  and  Gamble  on  a  Fortune 
While  My  Income  is  Here,  or  Shall  I 
Put  It  Into  Gilt-Edged  Bonds  and 
Run  the  Risk  of  My  Career  Lasting 
Until  There  Is  an  Income  Sufficient 
to  Take  Care  of  M  i? 


RICHARD  DIX  took  the  gamble.  Dix  had  a  few  good 
pictures,  "The  Christian,"  for  example. 
"Then  I  did  a  long  series  of  'walk  throughs,'  "  he  recounted. 
"I'd  kiss  my  grandmother  and  make  an  exit.  But  after  all  is 
said  and  done,  it's  the  check  every  pay  day  that  counts.  I 
continued  to  do  them  because  of  fear  I'd  lose  the  check.  I  in- 
vested in  get-rich-quick  schemes  because  I  was  afraid  the 
checks  would  stop  from  bad  pictures  and  I  wanted  financial 

protection. 

"I  have  a  horror  of 
being  broke  —  and 
here  I  am,  broke.  But 
to  be  broke  after 
you've  made  it!  To 
get  used  to  four  figures 
a  week  and  then  be 
constantly  afraid  it 
won't  last  long  enough 
to  give  you  financial 
independence  is  a 
frantic  experience. 

"The  fear  on  S3  a 
week  is  nothing  com- 
pared with  the  fear  on 
$3,000!" 

Three  years  ago 

Greta  Garbo,  at  the 

end  of  her  first  three 

[  PLEASE  turn  to 

PAGE  125  ] 


«. 


Lew  Ayres  fears  what  marriage  will 

do    to    the    popularity    his    sudden 

success  has  brought 


Hal  Phyfe 


,\X7'HEN  Louise  Bernhardt  arrived  in  Los 
"  *  Angeles  to  appear  as  soloist  with  the  Los 
Angeles  Symphony  Orchestra,  following  Schu- 
mann-Heink  and  other  opera  folks,  producers 
deluged  her  with  contracts.  Young,  beautiful 
and  gifted  with  a  remarkable  contralto  voice,  she 
proved  a  magnificent  screen  subject  in  several 
shorts,  notably  "A  Tribute  to  Mother."  Note 
the  diversity  of  her  personality  in  these  pictures, 
both  taken  at  the  same  sitting.  In  one  she  has 
the  lure  of  a  Garbo  or  Dietrich;  in  the  other 
the  ingenue  quality  of  a  Gaynor  or  Mary  Brian. 


Two  Girls 
in  One/ 


60 


See  GARBO  First 


Author  of  "Hollywood  with  a 
Spy-Glass,"  discoverer  of  the  knot- 
hole in  Greta  Garbo's  back  fence 


By 

Leonard 
Hall 


NO  doubt,  readers,  you  are  now  planning  That  Little 
Trip  for  this  summer — something  to  fill  those  precious 
two  weeks  Away  From  the  Grind. 

Perchance  you  are  figuring  on  Yellowstone  Park, 
The  Grand  Canyon,  Coney  Island  or  a  visit  to  Tony's — ring 
twice,  ask  for  Gus  and  tell  him  Mr.  Hossefross  sent  you. 

These  journeys  are  all  very  well  in  their  way,  but  they  are 
primarily  for  the  dullard,  the  conventional  soul  who  is  content 
to  hand  six  feet  of  green  ticket  to  the  conductor,  sink  back  on 
the  cushions  and  let  the  railroad  company  do  the  rest. 

Are  you  one  in  whom  the  spirit  of  adventure  still  throbs,  like 
galloping  toothache  of  the  soul?  Are  you  willing  to  risk  all  for 
a  thrill?  Are  you  of  the  bulldog  breed  which  rode  in  covered 
wagons  for  Paramount  back  in  '25  and  fought  the  redskins 
and  canned-corn  ptomaine  along  The  Big  Trail  (Fox,  '30)? 

Then  forget  the  silly  trips  to  the  moun- 
tains, the  shore,  the  shanties  in  the  hills! 

See  Garbo  First! 

It's  the  most  exciting  adventure  left  to 
desk-chained  Americans  today.  The  hunt 
for  Villa  was  just  a  game  of  tag  to  tracking 
down  and  laying  dazzled  eyes  on  the  Secre- 
tive Swede. 

The  sands  and  boulevards  of  Hollywood 
are  white  with  the  bleaching  bones  of 
ferocious  flappers  who  perished  of  starva- 
tion while  waiting  for  Garbo  to  emerge 
from  her  Santa  Monica  deadfall  and  go 
down  to  the  store  for  a  pint  of  milk.  Thou- 
sands have  drowned  while  lurking  behind 
shrubbery  in  the  hope  of  seeing  her  come 
out  for  a  walk  in  the  rain. 

Few  living  men  can  boast  of  having  seen 
the  Scandinavian  Hermitess.     I  have  seen 
Greta  Garbo — a  sight  never  vouchsafed 
Admiral  Byrd,  Robert  Ripley  or  any 
other   of   eternity's   famous  gate 
crashers! 

Perhaps  you  are  willing  to  give 
all,  dare  all,  do  all  to  witness  this 
eye-blistering  sight.  If  you  want 
something  easy,  go  chase  the 
wall-eyed   wallaby   through 
the  Australian  bush!    But 
if  you  have  the  heart  of  a 
lion,  the  patience  of  a 
saint  and  the  curi- 
osity of  a  film  cen- 
sor, take  up  the 
pursuit  of  our 
Stockholm 
Siren. 


Mother  and  I  trekked  into  the  Hollywood  jungles,  not  long 
ago,  with  this  one  avowed  purpose.    We  would  see  Garbo! 

Our  safari  was  equipped  with  express  rifles,  field-glasses, 
trout-flies,  butterfly  nets  and  many  cans  of  Swedish  antipasto 
as  bait. 

We  had  one  idea.  Other  matters — a  possible  hair-pulling 
bout  between  Connie  Bennett  and  Lil  Tashman,  for  instance — 
could  wait. 

We  stalked  Garbo  as  a  hobo  stalks  cherry  pies. 
By  bribing  a  studio  press-agent  with  a  ticket  for  the  movies, 
we  managed  to  rig  up  an  electric  gong  signal  at  the  head  of 
Mother's  bed.  Whenever  Garbo  issued  from  the  Metro  lot 
bound  for  location,  the  bell  rang,  a  red  rocket  went  up  and 
Mother  and  I  leaped  for  the  long,  red  automobile  that  puffed 
and  pawed  the  ground,  twenty-four  hours  a  day,  at  the  hotel 
door. 

Once  we  lost  her  in  the  Nevada  desert — 
we  learned  later  that  Garbo  had  fooled  us 
that  time  by  turning  into  a  coyote  and 
howling  for  her  mate.  Once,  with  a  police 
escort  on  motorcycles,  we  roared  to  Santa 
Monica  in  four  minutes,  eight  seconds,  only 
to  find  that  the  supposed  Greta  was  only 
some  unknown  blonde  digging  her  pinkies 
into  the  sand.  Her  boy  friend  threw  stones 
at  us  and  chased  us  away. 

AGAIN,  I  bought  the  newsstand  where 
Garbo  was  said  to  come,  at  dead  of 
night,  to  buy  her  copy  of  the  Stockholm 
Njcws-Tjitnes.  I  cursed  when  I  learned  that 
she  had,  that  morning,  given  up  reading  for 
Lent.  I  hired  out  as  grocer's  boy,  and  was 
bitten  by  a  large  dog  next  door. 

One  day  Mother  and  I  thought  we  had 

her.     Garbo  was  having  a  bowl  of  bean 

soup  at  Ye  Olde  Bevcrlye  Hillse  Sand- 

wiche  Nooke.     Mother  guarded  the 

front  door — I  the  rear.    Two  hours 

later  we  found  that  the  star  had 

been    carried    out    on    a    tray, 

covered  with  a  napkin.    I  even 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  113  ] 


We  shot  several  guards 

named  Nils,  Sven  and 

Moscha.    Then   the 

portal  opened  slowly 

and   a  tall,  rather 

awkward  figure 

stood  before  us 


61 


$5,000™ ///Prizes 


1      Seventy  cash  prizes  will  be  paid  by 
*   Photoplay  Magazine,  as  follows: 

First  Prize $1,000.00 

Second  Prize 750.00 

Third  Prize 500.00 

Fourth  Prize 300.00 

Fifth  Prize 200.00 

Twenty-five  Prizes  of  $50 

each 1,250.00 

Forty  Prizes  of  $25  each..    1,000.00 


7  In  four  issues  (the  June,  July, 
August  and  September  numbers) 
Photoplay  Magazine  in  publishing 
puzzle  pictures  of  well-known  motion 
picture  actors  and  actresses.  Eight  com- 
plete puzzle  pictures  appear  in  each  issue. 
Each  puzzle  picture  will  consist  of  the 
lower  face  and  shoulders  of  one  player,  the 
nose  and  eyes  of  another,  and  the  upper 
face  of  a  third.  When  completed,  eight 
portraits  may  be  produced.  $5,000.00  in 
prizes,  as  specified  in  rule  No.  1,  will  be 
paid  to  the  persons  sending  in  the  nearest 
correctly  named  and  most  neatly  ar- 
ranged set  of  thirty-two  portraits. 


*2  Do  not  submit  any  solutions  or 
answers  until  after  the  fourth  set  of 
puzzle  pictures  has  appeared  in  the  Sep- 
tember issue.  Completed  puzzle  pictures 
must  be  submitted  in  sets  of  thirty-two 
only.  Identifying  names  should  be 
written  or  typewritten  below  each  as- 
sembled portrait.  At  the  conclusion  of 
the  contest  all  pictures  should  be  sent 
to  PICTURE  PUZZLE  EDITORS, 
Photoplay  Magazine,  919  North 
Michigan  Avenue,  Chicago,  111.  Be  sure 
that  your  full  name  and  complete  address 
is  written  on,  or  attached  to,  your  entry; 
that  your  entry  is  securely  packed  to 
guard  against  damage  in  transit;  and 
that  it  carries  sufficient  postage  to  avoid 
delay. 


Read  the  Rules 
Carefully  Before 
Starting   Work 


A  Contestants  can  obtain  help  in 
solving  the  puzzle  pictures  by  care- 
fully studying  the  poems  appearing  be- 
low the  pictures  in  each  issue.  Each 
eight-line  verse  refers  to  the  two  sets  of 
puzzle  pictures  appearing  directly  above 
it.  The  six-line  verse  applies  generally  to 
the  four  sets  on  that  page.  Bear  in  mind 
that  it  costs  absolutely  nothing  to  enter 
this  contest.  Indeed,  the  contest  is  purely 
an  amusement.  You  do  not  need  to  be  a 
subscriber  or  reader  of  Photoplay  Mag- 
azine to  compete.  You  do  not  have  to 
buy  a  single  issue.  You  may  copy  or 
trace  the  pictures  from  the  originals  in 
Photoplay  Magazine  and  assemble  the 
pictures  from  the  copies.  Copies  of 
Photoplay  Magazine  may  be  examined 
at  the  New  York  and  Chicago  offices  of 
the  publication,  or  at  public  libraries,  free 
of  charge. 


C  Aside  from  accuracy  in  completing 
and  identifying  puzzle  pictures, 
neatness  and  originality  in  contestants' 
methods  of  submitting  solutions  will  be 
considered  in  awarding  prizes.  The  thirty- 
two  puzzle  pictures,  or  their  drawn  dupli- 
cates, when  completed,  must  have  the 
name  of  the  player  written  or  typewritten 
below. 


/;     The   judges   will   be   a   committee 

of  members  of  Photoplay 

Magazine's  staff.    Their  decision  will  be 

final.     No  relatives  or  members  of  the 

household  of  anyone  connected  with  this 


publication  can  submit  solutions.  Other- 
wise, the  contest  is  open  to  everyone 
everywhere. 


H     In  the  case  of  ties  for  any  of  the 
prizes  offered  the  full  amount  of 
the  prize  tied  for  will  be  given  to  each 
tying  contestant. 


Q  The  contest  will  close  at  midnight 
on  September  20th.  All  solutions 
received  from  the  time  the  fourth  set  of 
pictures  appears  to  the  moment  of  mid- 
night on  September  20th  will  be  con- 
sidered by  the  judges.  No  responsibility 
in  the  matter  of  mail  delays  or  losses  will 
rest  with  Photoplay  Magazine.  Send 
your  answers  as  soon  as  possible  after 
the  last  set  of  puzzle  pictures  appears 
in  the  September  issue,  which  will  be  for 
sale  on  the  newsstands  on  or  about 
August  15th.  The  prize  winners  will  be 
announced  in  the  January,  1932,  issue 
of  Photoplay. 


Q  Because  of  the  time  and  labor  re- 
quired to  re-pack  and  re-ship  thou- 
sands of  entries,  it  will  be  impossible  to 
return  any  of  them.  They  will  be  sent 
to  hospitals  and  orphanages  to  gladden 
the  hearts  of  sick  and  homeless  children. 


O  .  Contestants  should 

OUggeStlOnS  study  the  poems  ap- 
pearing in  connection  with  the  puzzle 
pictures.  These  are  the  indicators  for 
identifying  the  contest  puzzle  pictures 
and  winning  prizes. 

It  is  suggested  that  contestants  merely 
pin  their  solutions  together  until  the  four 
sets  of  pictures  are  complete.  This  will 
permit  the  shifting  and  changing  about 
of  pictures  as  the  contest  progresses — and 
will  give  time  for  lengthy  consideration 
and  study. 

-Each  puzzle  picture  is  a  portrait  of  a 
well-known  motion  picture  actor  or 
actress. 


70  headers  Must  Y\  in 


Follow  the  Arrows 


G2 


PHOTOGRAPHER  STAGG  dresses  up  a  charming  portrait  of  George 
Arliss  and  Dons  Kenyon,  who  plays  opposite  him  in  "Alexander  Hamil 
ton,"  in  the  spirit  of  the  new  picture 


This  Way  to  Puzzles 


Turn  Over 


Photoplay   Magazine's   New  $5,000.00   Puzzle   Contest 


Upper 
The  hair  is  deep  auburn — no  commonplace  red! 
The  eyes  had  their  chance  due  to  Barrie; 
The  mouth  is  the  college  boy's  idol,  they  say 
She  s  the  choice  of  each  Tom,  Dick  and  Harry! 

Lower 
The  hair  has  a  son  who's  about  a  year  old. 
The  eyes  are  already  twice  wed; 

The  mouth  is  from  Texas,  she's  just  twenty-three. 
And  she'll  go  a  long  way,  it  is  said. 


Upper 
The  hair's  from  Chicago,  the  town  of  gang  wars, 
The  eyes  were  Canadian  raised; 
The  mouth  has  known  tragedy  out  of  the  sky. 
And  her  courage  can't  be  over-praised! 

Lower 
The  hair  had  a  part  in  an  Ina  Claire  film, 
The  eyes  never  played  on  the  stage; 
The  mouth  was  discovered  by  Douglas  MacLean, 
And  her  triumphs  would  fill  a  whole  page. 


RESUME 
Three  of  them  are  known  to  their  fans  by  screen  names, 
■\nd  only  one's  medium  tall; 

Mone  of  them  has  blonde  hair,  and  one  is  unwed. 
And  one  came  from  quaint  Montreal. 
Not  one  went  to  college  nor  knew  the  legit. 
And  all  of  the  four  of  them  surely  have   "it"! 


Complete  Rules  for  Competition  Appear  on    Page   62 

5a 


Upper 
The  hair  came  to  us  from  the  Empire  State, 
The  eyes  from  a  warmer  land  came. 
The  mouth  entered  pictures  in  nineteen-fifteen, 
'Twas  a  war  play  that  brought  him  his  fame' 

Lower 
The  hair  claims  his  birthplace  as  Al  Smith's  home  town 
The  eyes  wed  a  blonde  star  in  haste. 
The  mouth  knew  the  stage  for  a  number  of  years. 
But  he  finds  the  screen  more  to  his  taste 


Upper 
The  hair  has  been  married  to  three  charming  girl-,. 
The  eyes  have  a  daughter  and  son 
The  mouth  started  out  as  a  dancer,  and  now 
On  a  singing  career  he's  begun 

1  a  ma 
The  hair  had  ten  brothers  and  sisters — how's  thai ' 
The  eyes  are  first  starred  in  "Shipmates 
The  mouth  has  been  seen  in  many  screen  thrillers. 
For  his  next  picture  everyone  waib 


RESUMI 
Three  have  been  married,  and  one  never  wcu 
All  Jour  oj  them  haiv  hair  that's  brown 
Two  oj  them  are  sons  of  the  East,  and  tust  oni 
Was  born  m  a  small  Western  town 
Three  oj  them  arc  daddies,  and  two  have  li/tht  eyc.\ 
And  each  one  has  known  a  sfyectacular  rn. 


Th 


A 


ose  /\mazing  oennett 


B 


A  MAZER  Number  One.  That  girl 
■*■  ^-Constance,  svelte,  sophisticated, 
charming,  and  making  it  pay  her  $30,000 
a  week.  Earning  twenty  times  what  her 
veteran  stage  father  does,  and  known  to 
more  people  in  a  few  years  than  her  dad 
in  his  stage  lifetime,  she  is  virtually  the 
head  of  the  clan 


SISTER  JOAN  is  lovely,  beguiling, 
youthful,  a  different  type  than  the  en' 
chantress  beside  her,  yet  a  star  in  her  own 
right,  collecting  $2,000  a  week,  and  a 
mother.  She  pursues  her  career  with  the 
same  intensity  that  moves  Constance  and 
seems  only  to  be  getting  into  stride  now 
on  her  upward  climb 


Girls 


an 


dTh 


eir 


Pappy 


I 


T'S  a  powerfully  overworked 
word  in  these  days  of  tabloid 
reporting — that  word  "amaz- 
ing!"    But  it's  the  one  word 


that  inevitably  pops  and  keeps 
popping  into  your  mind  when 
you  give  thought  to  this  Bennett 
family.  The  Barrymores,  now, 
are  interesting — sometimes 
startling,  and  not  infrequently 
downright  shocking.  But  the 
Bennetts  are  simply  amazing! 

And  just  at  this  particular  mo- 
ment, things  have  come  to  a  par- 
ticularly amazing  pass  in  the 
amazing  Bennett  family.  For  out 
at  the  Warner  Bros,  movie  lot, 
Papa  Richard  Bennett — that 
audience-damning,  stormy  petrel 
of  the  stage — has  offhandedly 
cast  away  his  richly  earned  star- 
dom and  taken  a  completely 
subordinate  role  in  support  of  the 
straw-haired  kid  he  used  to 
bounce  on  his  knee  not  so  many 
years  ago — his  daughter  Con- 
stance. 

Richard  Bennett — the  Richard  Bennett! — is  just  another 
actor  in  the  cast  of  Connie's  starring  picture  "Bought."  And 
although  he's  getting  the  not-to-be-sneezed-at  pay  of  $1,500  a 
week,  it  pales  into  nothingness  compared  with  the  fact  that 
Daughter  Constance  is  getting  just  twenty  times  what  they're 
paying  papa.  Constance  is  getting  $30,000  a  week 
from  Warners.  And  what  that  makes  Papa  Bennett 
is  just  another  of  those  things  that  can  happen 
only  in  Hollywood. 

You  might  think,  without  reading  any 
further,  that  Bennett  p'ere  is  a  bit  cha- 
grined  at   the   situation.     You   might 
think  he's  looking  for  a  hole  to  crawl 
into  at   the   thought   that   the  snub 
nosed  brat  he  used  to  spank  is  getting 
thirty  grand  a  week  while  he's  getting 
only  one-twentieth  of  that. 


By 

Harry  Lang 


Even  being  happily  married  is  amazing  when 
one  of  the  Bennett  girls  does  it,  and  Barbara 
amazes  as  the  wife  of  Morton  Downey,  con- 
tent with  a  career  of  love  and  domesticity 


BUT  he  isn't.    On  the  contrary,  he's 
as  proud  as  a  million  peacocks! 
"It's  the  proudest  moment  of  my  life" — 
those  are  his  very  own  words.     And 
that's  merely   another  amazing   mani- 
festation  of   these   amazing   Bennetts — 
they  appear  to  lack  that  notorious  pro- 
fessional jealousy  that  has  broken  up  so 
many  theatrical  homes. 

Oh,  there's  been  gossip  buzzing  around 
Hollywood  to  the  effect  that  the  Bennetts  hate 
the  sight  of  each  other.  That  Papa  Bennett 
won't  speak  to  Constance,  and  Constance  won't 
speak  to  Joan  and  so  on  and  so  on  and  so  on.  But 
it  isn't  true. 

You  know  the  customary  gesture  when  you 
want  to  illustrate  how  close  friends  two  pals  are? 
— you  hold  up  two  fingers  close  together  and  say 
"they're  like  that."    Well,  with  the  Bennett  clan 


And  here's  Bennett, 
pere,  that  fascinating 
stormy  petrel  of  the 
stage,  thirty  years  a 
star  and  yet  proud  as  a 
peacock  to  act  in  sup- 
port of  Constance 


you  can  hold  up  a  hand  with  all 
four  fingers  stuck  tighter  than 
adhesive  tape,  and  you  can  truth- 
fully say  "they're  just  like  that, 
those  amazing  Bennetts — Rich- 
ard and  Constance  and  Joan  and 
even  Barbara." 

YES — even  Barbara.  For,  if 
there's  some  tinge  of  incom- 
pleteness in  the  Bennett  profes- 
sional pride,  it  has  to  do  with  Bar- 
bara. Barbaraprefersmatrimony 
and  domesticity  to  a  career — and 
that  seems,  somehow,  to  irk  the 
other  Bennetts  just  a  trifle.  But 
it's  a  very  wee  trifle  and  Papa 
Richard  staunchly  defends  his 
odd  daughter — the  one  who  stays 
married  when  theothers  didn't;  the 
one  whose  hair  is  dark  while  the 
others  is  golden;  the  one  whose 
name  isn't  up  in  electric  lights  on 
theater  marquees  everywhere. 

"Barbara?"    he    echoes    when 
you   mention   her   name — "Bar- 
bara?    Well,  I've  always  had  to 
force  her.    She  approached  everything  with  fear  and  trembling, 
and  then  she  finally  met  Morton  Downey.    She  seems  to  love 
him.    Oh,  she's  had  offers,  but  Morton  doesn't  want  her  to  play 
on  the  stage  or  screen — matrimony,  domesticity,  that's  her 
career.     You  know,  to  my  state  of  mind,  she's  doing  just  as 
well  as  her  sisters  because,  after  all,  she's  happy, 
isn't  she?" 

You  wonder  if  she's  a  disappointment  to  him — 
when  he  compares  Barbara  with  Joan  who's 
making  S2,000  a  week  with  the  Fox  com- 
pany on  a  long-term  contract,  and  Con- 
stance, with  that  hair-raising  $30,000-a- 
week  arrangement  w*ith  the    Warners 
and  that  $25,000-a-week  business  with 
RKO-Pathe.      So    you    ask    him    if 
Barbara  is  a  disappointment  to  him. 
"Disappointment?    I  should  say  not. 
She's   made   her   mark   in   pictures. 
Why,  she  was  the  very  first  of  the 
Bennett  sisters  to  make  a  success  in 
films,  several  years  ago.    But  after  all, 
she's  just  a  girl  who  wants  to  be  mar- 
ried and  have  a  family.    So  she's  doing 
that.     Why,  I'm  sure  that  if  Barbara 
liked  the  stage  or  screen  as  much  as  Con- 
stance or  Joan  does,  she  could  make  as 
good  as  either  of  them.     But  her  hobby  is 
domesticity  and  if  that's  what  she  wants,  let 
her  make  a  success  of  that!-' 
And  that  disposes  of  Barbara,  the  wife.    It's  just 
another   of    the  amazing  facts   of    the  Bennett 
clan  that  Barbara,  in  contrast  with  her  sisters, 
should  be  the  wife-type  while  both  Joan  and 
Constance  are  immeasurably  more  successful  as 
ex- wives! 

Of  course,  Constance  is  the  big  thrill  of  the 


outfit.  Constance  is  [  please  turn  to  page  130  j 

67 


Four  Newcomers  Who 


A  New  Type  of  Sex  Appeal 


She's  Hard  To  Know 


"*\/*OUR  ears  stick  out— 

"Your  hair  isn't  curly — 
"You  aren't  good  looking — " 

This  is  the  song  producers  sang  to  Clark  Gable  six  years  ago 
when  he  tried  crashing  the  movies. 

Today,  they  are  singing  a  different  tune — to  the  sum  of  $750 
weekly  and  a  five-year  contract  with  Metro. 

The  styles  in  movie  heroes  change.  Then,  the  sheik  reigned, 
Valentino.  Now,  it's  the  big  he-man  with  the  rough  and  tumble 
personality,  Clark  Gable. 

They  wouldn't  give  him  a  chance  then.  Now,  he's  com- 
pleted: "The  Painted  Desert,"  "The  Easiest  Way,"  "The 
Mob,"  "Dance  Fools,  Dance,"  "The  Secret  Six,"  "A  Free 
Soul"  and  "Laughing  Sinners,"  in  which  he  took  Johnny  Mack 
Brown's  part  opposite  Joan  Crawford.  At  the  moment  he  is 
Garbo's  newest  leading  man,  playing  opposite  her  in  "Susan 
Lenox." 

His  entire  thirty  years  have  unwittingly  developed  that  he- 
man  angle.  He  was  on  his  own  at  fourteen;  drilling  oil  at 
twenty.  One  time  he  threw  all  he  had  at  a  station  agent  with, 
"How  far  will  this  take  me?" 

It  took  him  to  Butte,  Montana,  where  he  joined  other  un- 
employed. A  pawnbroker  gave  him  seven  dollars  for  his 
"other"  suit  when  he  couldn't  get  a  job.  He  rode  the  rods  to 
Oregon.  Lumber  camps.  Out  of  work  again.  A  wandering  stock 
troupe  without  pay — a  split  of  profits  when  there  were  any. 

HE  liked  the  gamble  of  stage  life  and  he  stuck  to  it.  Played 
Sergeant  Quirt  with  Louis  Wolheim  in  Los  Angeles,  and  the 
newspaper  reporter  in  "Chicago"  with  Nancy  Carroll. 

Hit  Broadway  as  he  had  hit  Butte.  They  needed  a  he-man 
for  "Machinal."    He  looked  the  part  and  got  it. 

In  Hollywood,  the  girls  rate  him  with  sex-appeal.  Even  Joan 
Crawford. 

His  two  wives  have  nothing  to  do  with  it.  The  ex  teaches 
school  in  Los  Angeles. 

The  current  Mrs.  Gable  was  a  stock-professional. 

68 


WYNNE  GIBSON  is  the  kind  of  girl  you  never  feel  you 
can  quite  know.  Oh,  she's  cordial,  and  a  good  fellow, 
but  those  who  work  and  play  with  her  feel  that  behind 
it  all,  she's  hiding  something,  or  pushing  something  back  inside 
her. 

"She's  clowning  around  so  much  that  you  just  feel  it's  not 
the  real  Wynne — that  she's  just  covering  up,"  is  the  way  they 
put  it. 

Well,  maybe — but  Wynne  says  it  isn't  so.  She's  red-haired 
and  cute  and  Irish.  She  came  to  Paramount  without  any  great 
hurrah,  but  after  she'd  played  in  a  few  pictures  everybody 
began  to  ask  who  she  was,  and  now  they  feel  she's  got  a  great 
future  ahead  of  her.  They  compare  her  with  Nancy  Carroll, 
Ruth  Chatterton  and  even  say  sometimes  that  she's  a  feminine 
Jack  Oakie — but  none  of  them  fit  her. 

She's  a  trouper  if  ever  there  was  one.  Other  actresses  want 
their  dressing-rooms  primped  up,  but  Wynne  is  satisfied  as  long 
as  hers  is  clean.  She  doesn't  spend  money  on  clothes  and 
jewelry,  but  she  goes  for  automobiles  in  a  big  way.  She  has  a 
special  car  now  that  cost  more  than  a  half-dozen  stenographers 
could  make  in  a  year. 

SHE  was  born  in  New  York  and  ran  away  from  home  because 
her  parents  wouldn't  let  her  be  an  actress.  Her  stage  career 
wasn't  a  great  success.  She  came  to  Hollywood  on  a  Para- 
mount contract  in  1930,  and  has  been  climbing  ever  since. 

Has  never  been  married,  and  Hollywood  sees  no  signs  of  her 
getting  that  way.  "It's  uncanny  for  a  girl  that  pretty  not  to 
be  seen  out  with  men  friends,"  Hollywood  says.  But  the  fact 
remains  that  when  you  see  her  at  lunch  or  out  places,  it's 
usually  with  some  woman  friend. 

She  loves  to  play  practical  jokes  and  make  wisecracks,  but 
won't  talk  much  about  herself.  Interviewing  her  is  lots  of  fun, 
but  you  don't  get  any  information  about  Wynne.  She's  not 
beautiful,  but  she  has  an  attractive  personality.  They're 
trying  to  get  her  to  dress  herself  and  her  hair  so  as  to  appear 
less  cute  and  more  Chattertony. 


Are  On  The  Up  and  Up 


He  Likes  to  Be  Lazy 


This  Gal's  A  Real  Trouper 


JOEL  McCREA  is  his  real  name.  He  is  twenty-five  years  old, 
six  feet,  two,  has  curly  brown  hair,  blue  eyes,  and  lazy  as 
nobody's  business.     That's  why  he's  in  pictures.  .  .  . 

When  he  graduated  from  Pomona  College,  not  far  from  Los 
Angeles,  he  tried  to  figure  out  what  he  could  make  the  most 
money  at  by  doing  least. 

The  answer  seemed  to  be  the  movies,  and  Joel  hasn't  found 
any  reason  yet  to  believe  he  was  wrong. 

He's  making  around  $750  a  week  now,  and  not  working  half 
as  hard  as  a  lot  of  people  who  are  getting  maybe  $35  or  so. 

He  went  into  pictures  deliberately.  He  knew  he  was  good 
looking,  and  what  it  would  do  to  the  fannettes'  hearts.  But 
even  Joel  didn't  know  what  it  would  do  to  stars'  hearts,  too. 
Joel  is  one  of  Hollywood's  outstanding  ladies'  men,  and  he  gets 
a  bit  peevish  if  you  mention  it. 

He  and  Dorothy  Mackaill  were  quite  exclusive  about  each 
other  for  a  while;  she  used  to  call  him  "Softy,"  for  a  pet  name. 
More  recently,  he's  been  going  places  much  with  Constance 
Bennett  while  the  Marquis  Henri  de  la  Falaise  says,  more  or 
less  cheerfully,  that  it's  "all  right  and  Joel  is  my  best  friend." 

JOEL  is  under  a  long-term  contract  to  Radio  Pictures,  but  he 
plays  for  a  lot  of  other  companies  because  famous  stars  like 
Connie  Bennett  ask  for  him  as  their  leading  man.  Radio  loans 
him  out. 

He  dresses  well,  is  always  a  perfect  gentleman,  swears 
very  little,  takes  himself  quite  seriously,  hopes  to  be  a  great 
movie  star  some  day. 

Although  he  admits  he's  lazy,  he  does  work  hard  when  in 
production.  But  the  rest  of  the  time,  he  likes  tcf  loaf  around 
the  beach. 

Plays  tennis  and  rides  a  bit.  Prefers  outdoor  life,  but  fits 
well  in  a  drawing-room. 

He's  proud  of  his  success,  of  course,  but  insists  he'll  never  get 
a  swelled  head  or  show  other  symptoms  of  having  gone  badly 
Hollywood.  Reason? — "I've  got  too  darn  nice  a  family,"  he 
says. 


WHEN  John  McCormick,  ex-husband  of  Colleen  Moore, 
sailed  for  Honolulu,  he  said,  "I  will  not  marry  Mae 
Clarke  or  anyone  else."  But,  since  then,  he  evidently 
changed  his  mind  about  the  "anyone  else"  for  he  married 
Mrs.  Janet  Gattis,  of  Washington,  D.  C.  For  eight  months 
Mae  was  engaged  to  marry  him,  but  there  was  more  than 
that  to  her  love.  They  were  friends,  first;  sweethearts  after- 
wards. 

Having  been  divorced  from  Lew  Brice,  she  thought  that  she 
had  achieved  the  perfect  companionship  with  John. 

But  she's  a  valiant  little  soul  and  she  knows  how  to  take  'em 
on  the  chin.  She  and  Barbara  Stanwyck  began  together  in  the 
chorus  and  both — they  were  all  of  sixteen — swore  that  some 
day  they'd  be  great  actresses.  Barbara  has  proved  herself  con- 
clusively, and  if  Mae  gets  a  few  more  parts  like  the  one  she  has 
in  "The  Front  Page"  there  won't  be  any  doubt  about  her.  John 
McCormick  having  failed  her,  she  has  thrown  herself  headlong 
into  her  work. 

SHE  started  in  amateur  theatricals  in  Atlantic  City.  Earl 
Lindsay,  the  producer,  discovered  her  and  induced  her  to 
turn  professional.  She  sang  in  night  clubs,  went  into  vaude- 
ville to  get  experience,  and  got  a  part  as  a  dancer  in  "  Gay 
Paree,"  a  musical  production. 

Unashamed  of  her  humble  beginning,  she  runs  through  a 
funny  little  scrap-book  of  snapshots  and  clippings  she  saved 
when  she  was  in  the  chorus. 

"Barbara  would  die  if  she  knew  I  had  some  of  these  old 
pictures,"  she  said.  "See  the  funny  look  I've  got — that 
crooked  sinister  smile?  That  was  because  I'd  had  a  tooth  pulled 
and  I  didn't  have  enough  money  to  get  one  put  in  properly.  I 
could  only  smile  out  of  one  corner  of  my  mouth." 

But  those  hard  times  are  ended.  One  of  the  brightest  of  the 
newer  batch  of  players,  she  has  bought  a  home  in  Westwood 
and  her  mother,  father  and  kid  brother  and  sister  live  with  her. 
Her  father  was  a  theater  organist.  Then  came  the  talkies  and 
the  old  ill  wind  blew  fame  and  fortune  in  Mae's  direction. 

69 


One  of  the  strange  cases  B — Madge  Bellamy 
who  didn't  pull  with  the  public  sufficiently 
to  warrant  continued  starring.  She  is  living 
in  Europe  now,  her  back  turned  firmly  on 
any  future  screen  offers 


Was  it  temperament?     Betty  Bronson 

says  not.    It's  just  another  sad  case  of 

limited  box-office  appeal 


ellamy 
ronson 
o  r  d  e  n 

By   Katherine  Albert 


NAMES,  names,  names! 
That's  the  cry  of  the  producers.    Names  to  string  in 
electric  lights.    Names  to  lure  the  wayward  fans  inside 
.  the  theaters.     Names  to  quicken  the  pulse  of  the 
American  public. 

The  studios  look  for  new  faces,  new  personalities.  They 
build  up  stars  only  to  let  them  drop.  What  causes  this?  Three 
young  women  come  quickly  to  mind.  They  have  well-known 
names.  They  are  good  actresses.  But  they  have  done  almost 
no  screen  work  in  the  last  couple  of  years.    Why? 

They  are  Betty  Bronson,  Madge  Bellamy  and  Olive  Borden. 
There  are  many  more,  but  these  may  be  considered  three  cases 
B.  Why  have  these  girls  failed?  Let  us  consider  both  sides — - 
producer  versus  star. 

FIRST  case  on  the  docket — Betty  Bronson. 
After  her  great  success  in  "Peter  Pan,"  Paramount  gave 
her  a  long-term  contract.     Now,  not  having  worked  for  a 
number  of  months,  she  is  playing  a  second  lead  in  a  picture  at 
Columbia.    Why? 

We'll  hear  the  producers'  side  first.  They  say  she  is  tem- 
peramental. One  picture  in  which  she  was  cast  required  that 
she  wear  lounging  pajamas,  and  this  was  in  the  day  when 
pajamas  were  still  risque,  as  a  French  postcard.    Betty  refused. 


70 


Three  names 
dimmed.  Read 
why  these  once- 
famous  stars  are 
not  so  popular 
today 


Again,  she  was  told  to  smoke  a  ciga- 
rette before  the  camera.  Betty  refused. 
Or  rather,  Betty's  mother  refused. 
Mother  invariably  took  the  rap  for 
Betty  and  quarreled  with  the  execu- 
tives about  working  hours,  money, 
type  of  roles  and  all  the  other  things 
movie  mamas  interest  themselves  in. 
At  last  the  girl's  contract  was  allowed 
to  lapse. 

When  it  was  understood  that  the 
option  would  not  be  renewed,  Mrs. 
Bronson  ate  a  goodly  portion  of  hum- 
ble pie. 

Why,  if  necessary,  Betty  would 
smoke  a  black  cigar.  But  this  vigorous 
change  of  heart  came  too  late.  Betty 
was  through. 

She  went  to  M-G-M  for  "The 
Bellamy  Trial"  and  might  have  done 
something  else  there  had  she  not  sud- 
denly gone  to  England. 

It  appears  that  a  young  man  named 
Joe  Pendergrast  was  being  graduated 
from  Oxford  and  Betty  wanted  to  see 
the  deed  done. 

Upon  her  return,  she  was  cast  in  the 
famous  Al  Jolson  picture,  "The  Sing- 
ing Fool."    Jolson  didn't  take  to  her. 

Now,  for  Betty's  side.     Betty  said 
that  the  reason  she  would  not  wear  the 
pajamas  and  smoke  the  cigarette  upon 
the  screen  was  because  she  was  not 
the  type,  her  fans  would  disapprove 
and   such   gestures   would   cause   her 
professional  death.    She  explained  the 
European  trip  by  saying  she  was  stag- 
nating in  Hollywood  and  had  to  get  away.    She  also  claimed 
that  she  had  not  the  slightest  notion  why  Jolson  didn't  like  her, 
for  she  had  tried  to  be  nice  and  do  whatever  was  necessary. 
Never  was  she  temperamental. 

The  case  of  Betty  Bronson  rests  for  a  moment. 

NOW,  for  Madge  Bellamy. 
Here  is  the  complaint  of  the  producer.  It  was  said  that 
she,  too,  was  temperamental,  that  she  put  on  the  grand  robes 
of  stardom,  attempted  to  dictate  to  her  bosses  and  refused  to 
work  with  a  certain  director  assigned  to  her.  This  last  was  the 
immediate  cause  of  the  breaking  of  her  contract. 

Madge,  herself,  tells  another  story.  She  was  not  tempera- 
mental. It  is  true  that  she  never  really  liked  her  pictures.  For 
all  her  baby-doll  face,  she  has  a  good  head,  and  she  felt  that  her 
program  pictures  were  not  bringing  out  the  talent  she  had  to 
offer. 

She  was  promised,  by  the  highest  executive,  the  role  of  Diane 
in  "7th  Heaven."  During  a  trip  to  Europe,  she  was  photo- 
graphed upon  the  battlefields  of  France  to  prepare  herself.  She 
returned  to  find  Janet  Gaynor  playing  it.  This  hurt  Madge. 
She  felt  it  was  unfair.    But  she  went  on  and  did  what  she  was 


/ 


Olive  Borden  is  another  star  that  took  a  toboggan  ride.     Tempera- 
ment was  the  excuse  given — but  again  that  old  devil  box-office  was 

the  reason 


assigned  to  do.  She  did  "  Mother  Knows  Best"  and  one  other. 
Then  she  was  called  into  the  executive  office  one  day  and  told 
the  name  of  her  next  director. 

"Oh,  but  I  can't  work  with  him,"  she  said.  "He  was 
assistant  director  on  my  set  once  and  he  took  a  dislike  to  me. 
There  is  something  that  must  pass  between  star  and  director — 
a  mutual  understanding  that  is  necessary  for  the  success  of  a 
film.  I  simply  cannot  work  with  him,  for  I  know  we'd  make  a 
failure — his  hating  me  as  he  does." 

YOU  can't  tell  us  who  shall  direct  you,"  said  the  producer. 
"And  if  you  don't  like  it,  you  can  quit." 

"All  right,"  said  Madge.    "I  quit." 

Perhaps  they  were  only  trying  to  bring  her  to  task  and  make 
her  take  a  cut  in  salary,  since  she  had  been  with  the  studio  for 
a  number  of  years  and  the  figure  was  high. 

But  Madge  had  wanted  to  retire,  had  wanted  to  have  time  to 
do  a  little  studying  and  thinking.  She  promised  to  consider  the 
matter  over  night.  After  having  talked  it  over  with  her  mother, 
she  came  to  the  studio  the  next  day,  only  to  leave. 

That  was  two  years  ago. 

When  thenewspaperscameout  [  PLEASE  TURN  to  PAGE  110  ] 

71 


o/ast  Call  for  Your  Story 


Bhr 


David  Manners,  who  will 
play  opposite  Miss 
Marsh  in  "Beauty  and 
the  Boss."  He  has 
already  won  praise  and 
recognition  with  his 
work  in  "Journey's 
End,"  "Sweet  Mama," 
and  "The  Right  to  Love" 


You  may  have  all  the  story  ideas  in  the  world,  but  unless  you 
get  busy  on  that  typewriter  they  are  never  born 


To  win  that  $2,000.00 
prize  or  sell  your  story 
for  the  same  amount  you 
must  get  your  manuscript 
in  by  July  15 


Marian  Marsh,  who  has 
already  been  selected  to 
play  the  heroine  in 
"Beauty  and  the  Boss." 
Rising  rapidly  in  the 
movie  heavens,  it  might 
be  your  story  that  will 
put  her  among  the  lead- 
ing  screen    actresses 


DELUGING   Photoplay's  offices,   a   flood   of   manu- 
scripts have  already  been  received  in  the  Photoplay- 
Warner  Bros.    Contest   for  a   storv   to   fit   the   title, 
"Beauty  and  the  Boss."     Seeking  the  $2,000  check 
which  goes  to  the  winner,  as  well  as  the  nine  other  $2,000  checks 
for  successful  picture  stories,  hundreds  of  contestants  have 
poured  their  stories  in  upon  us. 

Evidently,  there  is  no  drought  of  ideas  anywhere,  for  stories 
have  come  in  from  all  over  the  country.  Several  have  come 
from  Europe,  one  from  far-off  Turkey. 

If  your  story  is  not  among  them,  get  busy  now.  You  still 
have  plenty  of  time,  for  the  contest  does  not  close  until  mid- 
night of  July  15.  It  is  original,  modern-day  stories  that  Warner 
Bros,  are  seeking,  and  for  which  $2,000  will  be  awarded  for  each 
one  accepted.  It  might  be  the  very  story  you  always  intended 
to  write,  but  never  did,  that  they  are  looking  for.  So  get  to 
work  and  get  your  story  into  Photoplay's  office  before  the 
deadline. 

You  don't  have  to  be  a  literary  genius  or  even  an  experienced 
writer.  Don't  try  for  literary 
effects.  Just  sit  down  and  tell 
your  own  story  in  your  own  way, 
clearly,  simply  and  completely. 
Don't  look  to  recent  books,  plays 

72 


Study   Rules 

on    Page   118 


or  short  stories  for  your  ideas.    Be  original,  because  it  is  your 
story  that  is  wanted. 

Since  the  last  announcement  of  this  contest,  letters  have  come 
in  asking  if  it  is  all  right  to  submit  a  brief  outline,  or  "sketch  of 
a  story."  Others  have  said  that  they  are  unable  to  put  their 
story  idea  into  scenario  form.  Still  others  have  pleaded  that 
they  are  unable  to  write  the  dialogue  which  they  feel  is  neces- 
sary for  talking  pictures. 

Now,  don't  worry  about  too  many  things.  Never  mind 
scenarios,  dialogue,  or  anything  else.  What  is  wanted  is  a  story 
with  a  basic  idea,  your  story.  Write  it  as  a  story  in  the  best 
way  you  can,  but  be  sure  that  it  is  complete. 

"Sketches,"  as  some  have  called  them,  are  too  often  inclined 
to  be  incomplete  and  vague,  leaving  too  much  to  be  filled  in  by 
others.  Make  all  your  characters  whole  and  complete,  put 
them  in  whatever  setting  you  have  selected,  and  tell  your  story 
with  them  or  through  them.  But  turn  out  a  complete  plot  job. 
In  past  issues  of  Photoplay  Jacob  Wilk,  manager  of  the 
story  department  of  Warner  Bros. -First  National,  has  given 

you  some  advice  and  outlined  the 
kind  of  stories  that  are  wanted.  If 
you  have  these  back  numbers 
glance  over  them  again  and  act  on 
[  please  turn  to  page  135  ] 


of    Contest 
Carefully 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

arms    and  shoulder* 

precious    than  p 


Smooth    white 


73 


ers   are  more 


than    pearls    and  diamonds 


sans 


y- 


M^  NORMAN  OGDEN  WHITEHOUSE 


NEWPORT  for  the  brilliant  summer  season  ...  a 
whirl  of  early  autumn  festivities  in  New  York, 
then  on  to  Melton  Mowbray,  England,  for  the  fox- 
hunting .  .  .  winter  in  Italy  or  Egypt  .  .  .  spring  in 
Paris  .  .  .  such  is  the  gay  round  of  this  charming 
cosmopolitan,  Mrs.  Norman  Ogden  Whitehouse. 

To  the  education  of  a  princess  Mrs.  Whitehouse 
owes  subtle  secrets  of  charm  and  chic,  for  before 
her  marriage  she  was  the  Princess  Tamara  Bragation 
Moukrahnsky,  of  Georgia,  in  Russia.  Petite  and 
piquante,  she  is  dark  and  very  lovely,  always  smartly 
dressed  and  exquisitely  groomed. 

Her  clear  pale  ivory  complexion  bespeaks  unfail- 
ing care.  "After  all,  what  is  so  important  as  a  beauti- 
ful skin?"  she  asks.  "A  fresh,  fair  complexion  gives 
chic  to  one's  simplest  frock.  Smooth  white  arms  and 
shoulders  are  more  precious  than  diamonds  and 
pearls  when  one  is  in  evening  dress." 

LIKE  many  other  society  beauties,  Mrs.  Whitehouse 
-«  is  devoted  to  Pond's.  "No  wonder  fastidious 
women  prize  the  four  delightful  preparations,  and 
follow  the  Pond's  Method  every  day,"  she  says.  "The 
four  steps  make  it  so  easy  to  keep  one's  skin  lovely!" 

You,  too,  must  know  this  wonderful  easy  way  to 
keep  your  skin  always  glowing  with  youth: 

1 — For  immaculate  cleansing,  apply  Pond's  Cold  Cream  gen- 
erously several  times  daily,  always  after  exposure.  Pat  in  with 
upward,  outward  strokes,  letting  the  fine,  light  oils  sink  deep 
into  the  pores  and  float  the  dirt  to  the  surface. 

2 — With  Pond's  Cleansing  Tissues  wipe  away  cream,  dirt, 
make-up  and  powder.  These  softer  Tissues  are  52%  more  ab- 
sorbent than  ordinary-  tissues,  by  laboratory  test.  W  hit  e  or  peach. 

3 — With  Pond's  Skin  Freshener,  briskly  pat  your  skin  until  it 

is  pleasantly  aglow — to  banish  oiliness,  close  and  reduce  pores, 

bring  lovely,  natural  color  to  faded,  sallow  cheeks. 

4 — Now  smooth  on  a  delicate  film  of  Pond's 
Vanishing  Cream  for  powder  base,  protection,  and 
an  exquisite  finish  .  .  .  Use  it  on  neck,  shoulders 
and  arms — wherever  you  powder  .  .  .  Marvelous, 
too,  to  keep  hands  smooth  and  white. 

At  bedtime:  always  cleanse  face  and  neck  with 
Cold  Cream  and  remove  with  Tissues. 

• 
Tune  in  on  Pond's  Program  Friday  evening  at 
9:30  P.  M.  D.  S.  T.    Reisman's  Orchestra  of  Cen- 
tral Park  Casino.    WEAF  and  N.  B.  C.  Network. 

Send  10£  for  Pond's  Four  Preparations 
pond's  extract  company,  Dept.  1 

11 1  Hudson  Street New  York  City 


Name_ 


Smooth,  lovely  skin  is  easily  won  by  the 
use  of  Pond's  four  preparations  (at  right) 


Street- 
City  _ 


Copyright.  IMla  Pond'a  Extract  Company 


74 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


our 


SAYS 


BILLIE  BURKE 

famous  stage  Beauty  declares  no  woman 

needs  look  her  age 


I  REALLY  am  39  years  old!"  says 
Billie  Burke.  "And  I  don't  see  why 
any  woman  should  look  her  age. 

"We  on  the  stage,  of  course,  must 
keep  our  youthful  freshness — it  wins 
and  holds  the  public  as  nothing  else 
can.  To  do  this  it  is  important  above 
everything  else  to  guard  complexion 
beauty — keep  one's  skin  temptingly 
fresh  and  smooth. 

"For  years  I  have  used  Lux  Toilet 

Soap  regularly.    Its  lather  is  beautifully 

smooth  and  so  delicately  fragrant.  And 

it  leaves  my  skin  amazingly  clear  and 

soft." 

♦        «        ♦ 

At  39  Billie  Burke  has  just  signed  up 
for  a  series  of  motion  pictures  in  Holly- 
wood! What  a  tribute  to  her  youthful 
freshness!  She  will  find  the  Hollywood 
actresses,  like  the  stage  stars,  are  de- 
voted to  Lux  Toilet  Soap. 

Actually  605  of  the  613  important 
ones  use  this  fragrant  white  soap  to 


guard  complexion  beauty — regularly! 
Surely  your  skin  should  have  the  pro- 
tection of  this  gentle,  luxurious  care! 


BILLIE  BURKE,  wife  of  a  prominent  theatrical 
manager  and  the  mother  of  a  beloved  young 
daughter.  Her  charm  is  never  more  compelling 
than  when  she  is  presiding  as  the  amazingly 
youthful  mistress  of  her  luxurious  home. 


Fhotoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


75 


?\ 


am 


BILLIE  BURKE 

As  this  photograph 
plainly  shows.theyears 
have  only  increased 
her  irresistible  appeal! 
This  year  she  has 
added  to  her  long  list 
of  stage  triumphs, 
"The  Truth  Game." 
She  says:  "To  keep 
youthful  charm,   it 
is  important  above 
everything  else  to 
guard  complexion 
beauty.  For  years  I 
have  used  Lux  Toilet 
Soap  regularly." 


oap  1CK 


V 


ote 


Nor/ 


IF  you  haven't  cast  your  vote  for  the 
best  picture  of  1930,  get  right  to  it 
now. 

The  annual  award  of  the  Photo- 
play Medal  of  Honor,  the  highest  and 
most  coveted  honor  in  the  world  of  motion 
pictures,  is  made  on  the  selection  of 
picture  fans  themselves,  and  it  is  your 
duty  to  take  your  part  in  making  the 
award. 

This  is  the  eleventh  annual  awarding  of 
this  distinguished  prize.  The  ten  previous 
winners,  which  are  printed  on  this  page, 
show  what  a  brilliant  line  of  film  accom- 
plishments have  gone  before. 

It  is  a  real  privilege,  as  well  as  your 
duty  as  a  patron  of  better  moving  pictures, 
to  encourage  fine  screen  achievements  of 
this  type  by  casting  your  vote  today. 

Since  the  first  award  was  made  to  "Humoresque"  back  in 
1920,  pictures  have  made  astounding  progress.  Every  branch 
of  films  has  advanced,  and  in  addition  sound  has  come  along  to 
bring  new  technical  advantages,  as  well  as  new  delights,  to  the 
screen. 

"  I  "^ISRAELI,"  which  won  last  year's  medal,  was  the  first 

-1— ■'talking  picture  to  be  so  honored. 

Since  then  the  talkies  have  progressed  to  a  fine  state  of  per- 
fection, and  the  industry  is  definitely  committed  to  the  talking 
screen. 

In  voting  you  have  your  opportunity  to  express  your  ap- 
proval of  the  progress  that  has  been  made  in  this  direction. 

As  in  the  past,  we  ask  you  to  be  thoughtful  and  com- 
prehensive in  your  judgment,  that  personalities  be  forgotten  in 
the  broader  duty  of  considering  all  of  the  ingredients  that  go 
into  the  making  of  a  picture  worthy  of  this  high  award. 

Fifty  Pictures  Released  in  1930 


Winners  of 
Photoplay  Medal 

1920 

"Humoresque" 

1921 

"Tol'able  David" 

1922 

"Robin  Hood" 

1923 

The  Covered  Wagon" 

1924 
"Abraham  Lincoln" 

1925 

"The  Big  Parade" 

1926 

"Beau  Geste" 

1927 
"7th  Heaven" 

1928 
"Four  Sons" 

1929 
"Disraeli" 


It  is  your  duty  to 
vote  for  the  best 
picture  of  the  year 


Story,  directing,  acting  and  the  spirit 
behind  its  making  should  all  go  into  the 
scales  for  judgment.  The  picture  makers 
themselves,  in  awaiting  this  vote  of  ap- 
proval from  you,  want  all  aspects  of  the 
picture  taken  into  consideration. 

For  your  convenience  a  ballot  is  printed 
on  this  page.  Use  it.  You  will  also  find  a 
list  of  fifty  notable  pictures  released  last 
year.  Of  course,  you  are  not  limited  to 
select  one  of  them. 

Vote  for  any  picture  of  1930  that  you 
think  entitled  to  this  high  honor.    All  are 
eligible. 
The  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  of  Honor  is  of  solid  gold,  weigh- 
ing \2V/2  pennyweights  and  is  two  and  one  half  inches  in 
diameter. 

Each  medal  is  made  and  designed  by  Tiffany  and  Company, 
of  New  York. 

Remember  that  this  award  goes  directly  from  the  millions  of 
film  fans  to  the  makers  of  pictures,  and  you,  as  a  representative 
picture-goer,  should  cast  your  ballot. 

It  is  the  one  great  gift  of  motion-picture-goers  to  those  who 
serve  them  well,  and  surely  it  is  a  privilege  to  have  a  voice  in 
the  giving. 

In  the  past  your  votes  have  not  only  rewarded  fine  screen 
efforts,  but  served  to  encourage  the  upward  trend  in  quality. 

IF  you  want  pictures  to  continue  to  improve,  here  is  your 
chance  to  do  your  share  by  expressing  your  opinion  through 
your  vote. 

Send.it  in!    And  may  the  worthiest  win! 


Abraham  Lincoln 

All  Quiet  on  the  Western 

Front 
Animal  Crackers 
Anna  Christie 
Big  House,  The 
Big  Trail,  The 
Case  of  Sergeant  Grischa, 

The 
Caught  Short 
Check  and  Double  Check 
Common  Clay 
Dawn  Patrol,  The 
Devil  May  Care 
Devil's  Holiday,  The 
Divorcee,  The 
Doorway  to  Hell,  The 
Feet  First 

70 


Free  and  Easy 

General  Crack 

Green  Goddess,  The 

Grumpy 

Hell's  Angels 

Holiday 

Journey's  End 

King  of  Jazz 

Indies  of  Leisure 

Laughter 

Let  Us  Be  Gay 

Lummox 

M  anslaughter 

Men  Without  Women 

Min  and  Bill 

Moby  Dick 

Monte  Carlo 

Office  Wife,  The 


Old  English 

Outward  Bound 

Rogue  Song,  The 

Romance 

Sarah  and  Son 

Seven  Days'  Leave 

Song  o'  My  Heart 

So  This  Is  London 

Street  of  Chance 

Tom  Sawyer 

Unholy  Three,  The 

Vagabond  King,  The 

White  Hell  of  Pitz  Palu 

Whoopee 

With    Byrd   at   the   South 

Pole 
Young  Man  of  Manhattan 


Photoplay  Medal  of  Honor  Ballot 

Editor  Photoplay  Magazine 

221  W.  57th  Street,  New  York  City 

In  my  opinion  the  picture  named  below  is  the 
best  motion  picture  production  released  in  1930. 


NAME  OF  PICTURE 


J^ame- 


Address. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


77 


It  Stands  Alone 


lCCEPTED 


lmerican 


See  if  the  seal  of  ac- 
ceptance is  on  the 
toothpaste  you  buy 


■".rilAssooA 

on^/XtIOH 

RENTAL 

THERAPEUTICS, 


and  Colgate's 
costs  but  .  .  . 


COLGATE'S  toothpaste  has  healthfully  and  completely 
cleansed  more  people's  teeth  than  any  other  tooth- 
paste the  world  has  ever  known. 

COLGATE'S  has  been  more  universally  recommended 
by  dentists  through  the  years  than  any  other  dentifrice 
ever  made. 

COLGATE'S  now— climaxing  30  years  of  leadership- 
has  been  accepted  by  the  American  Dental  Association, 
Council  on  Dental  Therapeutics.  The  seal  signifies  that 
the  composition  of  the  product  has  been  submitted  to 
the  Council  and  that  the  claims  have  been  found  ac- 
ceptable to  the  Council. 

COLGATE'S  sells  for  25  cents  because  more  people 
use  it  than  any  other  make.  The  price  is  important— 
but  the  quality,  not  the  price,  has  held  Colgate  leader- 
ship for  30  years. 


FOR    THIRTY    YEARS    COLGATE'S     HAS     BEEN    THE    WORLD'S     BIGGEST    SELLING    TOOTHPASTE 


V1  s^ 


The  result  of  the  conference  is  usually  a  joke  that  appeared  in  Punch  in  1874 

Yo/  Ho/  *«</  *  Bottle  of  Gin 


IT  takes  ten  men  to  write  a  joke 
in  Hollywood,  most  of  them 
with  caps  on.  And  then  it 
usually  turns  out  to  be  a  joke 
which  appeared  in  Punch  in  1874. 
I  visit  friends  in  studios  fre- 
quently, usually  writers,  and  I  have 
never  found  less  than  ten  persons 
doing  any  one  thing  (usually,  yo 
ho,  with  a  bottle  of  gin  in  their 
midst).  In  fact,  I  once  helped  nine 
other  men  write  the  titles  of  a 
picture,  back  in  the  old  silent  days. 
The  company  used  three  of  my 
words — for  which  I  got  $600.  This 
helps  explain  why  nickel  pictures 
are  now  seventy-five  cents. 

Early  in  the  history  of  movies 
somebody  was  tremendously  im- 
pressed by  the  good  old  epigram  to 
the  effect  that  two  heads  are  better 
than  one,  and  it  was  reasoned,  then, 
that  ten  men  ought  to  be  five  times 
as  good  as  two,  and  ten  men  (at 
least)  it  has  been  ever  since,  most  of 
them  with  caps  on.  After  several 
years  of  working  in  tens,  movie 
writers  and  other  movie  workers 
have,  I  guess,  developed  a  type  of 
cloisterphobia. 

THEY  think  in  tens,  are  inspired 
in  tens,  write  in  tens,  and  go  to 
the  water  cooler  in  tens. 

"Mr.  Johnstone  says  to  come 
right  up  to  Room  204  in  the  writing 
plant,"  says  the  ogre  in  the  recep- 
tion foyer,  and  you  look  forward  to 
a  quiet,  pleasant  fifteen  minutes 
with  Jim,  discussing  old  times,  and 
then  lunch.  But  you  find  him  in  a 
room  full  of  ten  humorists  (several 
of  them  with  caps  on)  writing  a 
funny  joke  for  the  Five  Mocks 
Bros.     {They  ought  to  go  great  in 

78 


O  r   Te  n    M  e  n 

on  a   Dead 
Movie's   Chest 


If  a  writer  or  director,  or  even  a  studio 

carpenter  were  told  to  go  into  a  room  by 

himself  and  work  something  out,  he  would 

scream  with  loneliness 


By  Don  Herold 


Hollywood  because  there  are  five  of 
them  instead  of  merely  one  or  two.) 

And  you  wonder  how  Shake- 
speare wrote  Shakespeare,  and  how 
Michelangelo  painted  the  Sistine 
ceiling  all  by  himself. 

You  wonder  if  there  has  really 
ever  been  Art  until  just  here  re- 
cently. Can  there  be  Art  with  less 
than  ten  people  in  on  it? 

And,  for  that  matter,  how  did 
Newton  discover  the  law  of  gravity 
without  calling  a  conference? 

IT  is  not  only  in  the  writing  plant 
that  movie  misery  loves  multi- 
plicity. It  takes  five  men  to  go  get 
a  screwdriver.  It  takes  twenty  men 
to  operate  two  cameras.  It  takes 
seven  men  to  hold  a  tinfoil  reflector, 
and  about  forty  men  to  manipulate 
six  lights.  So  when  you  see  "a 
million  dollar  production"  adver- 
tised, it  doesn't  mean  anything 
just  picture  a  lot  of  guys  with  caps 
on,  sitting  around  wasting  a  millior 
dollars'  worth  of  time. 

I  suppose  if  a  picture  employee 
were  told  to  go  into  a  room  by  him- 
self and  work  something  out,  h< 
would  scream  with  loneliness. 

Frankly,  if  you  ask  me  and  nine 
other  fellows  for  our  reactions,  ] 
can't  help  feeling,  sometimes  (speak 
ing  for  myself,  as  one  of  ten,  under 
stand),  when  I  see  the  finishe< 
product,  that  the  many  geniuse 
behind  the  picture  have  certainb 
done  a  swell  job  of  neutralizing  eacl 
other.  And  maybe  that's  exactl; 
what  the  producers  are  after.  May 
be  it  takes  one-hundred  per  cen 
nullification  of  creative  impulses  t 
make  a  one-hundred  per  cent  box) 
office  success. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


79 


In  64  cities  of  France  alone  — Beauty  experts 

is  way  to  keep  that  schoolgirl  complexion 


cQovely  LlN A  CAVALIERI  of 'Paris 

tells  why  she  advises  Palmolive 


y; 


OU'VE    never    known    any 
beauty   formula   as   wide- 
spread as  this !  France,  herself,  so 
wise  in  the  ways  that  lead  to  love- 
liness, has  enthusiastically  adopted 
the  daily  use  of  Palmolive  Soap 
.  .  .  because  experts  assure  her 
there's  no  better  way  of  keeping 
that  schoolgirl  complexion. 
Lina  Cavalieri,  with  salons  in 
Paris,   Cannes,   Biarritz,   Monte  Carlo 
and  Le  Touquet,  is  a  leading  figure  in 
this  movement  toward  natural  loveli- 
ness.   She  recommends  her  own  cos- 
metics, of  course.    But  with  them,  to 
further  the  work  so  well  begun  in  her 
own  studios,  she  is  careful  to  recom- 
mend Palmolive. 

Mme.  Cavalieri's  advice 

"Before  retiring,  of  course,  use  Palm- 
olive," says  Mme.  Cavalieri.  "Massage 
its  lather  gently  into  the  skin  of  face 
and  throat.  Rinse  with  warm  water, 
gradually  changing  to  cold.  Then  I  ad- 
vise the  application  of  my  Camphorated 
Jelly  No.  5. 

If  you  have  the  mistaken  notion 
that  soap  may  harm  your  skin, 
it  is  because  you  are  not  using 
the  right  soap.  Next  time  try 
Palmolive.  I  heartily  advise  it 
..to  keep  skin  smooth  and  lovely." 


"In  the  morning  cleanse  the  skin 
thoroughly  with  this  same  soap.  Then 
use  my  'Lotion  Onctueuse'  No.  7  be- 
fore applying  my  Cream  No.  2  for 
neutral  skins. 

"By  following  this  simple  treat- 
ment, you  will  keep  that  schoolgirl 
complexion." 

Paris  leads !  63  other  French  cities 
follow.  And  throughout  the  world, 
in  over  1 600  cities,  beauty  is  now  being 
safeguarded  because  specialists  have 
discovered  and  recommended  Palm- 
olive daily  care. 


Youth  is  precious !  Keep  it!  Keep  every 
outward  sign  of  it.  Begin  with  that  school- 
girl complexion.    Lovely  Parisiennes  have 

a  smooth,  creamy  complexion  that  is  fos- 
tered by  the  use  of  the  oils  of  olive  and 
palm  as  embodied  in  Palmolive  Soap. 


E?  lOc 


PALMOLIVE  RADIO  HOUR-Broadcast  every  Wednesday  night-from  8:30  to  9:30  p.  m..  Eascern  Standard 
time;  7:30  to  8:30  p.m.,  Central  Standard  time;  6:30  to  7:30  p.m..  Mountain  Standard  time;  5:30  to  6:30p.m., 
Pacific  Coast  Standard  time  — over  WEAF  and  39  Stations  associated  with  The  National  Broadcasting  Co. 


The  New  Colleen  Moore 


Hal  Phyfe 


Above — The  new  Colleen  in  her  new 
personality,  photographed  for  Photo- 
play on  the  day  her  divorce  became 
final.  Below — The  Colleen  who  blos- 
somed from  an  extra  girl  into  one  of  the 
greatest  of  stars — and  then  retired  with 
two  million  dollars 


Hal  Phyfe 


What?  Can  this  be  the  erstwhile  demure  little  Colleen 
who  made  the  Dutch  bob  famous  all  over  the  world? 
It  is,  and  HalPhyfe's  veracious  camera  herewith  proves 
it.  When  Colleen  returns  to  the  screen  soon  she  may 
display  that  gorgeous  figure  she  has  been  hiding  for 
years.  Constance  Bennett,  Joan  Crawford,  and  Norma 
Shearer — look  to  your  laurels! 

80 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


8l 


\/*  — « 
OS  FERINE  I 

TOOTH  PASTE 


»My«LCQMg»NY 


This  dentifrice  for 
ustrous  white  teeth 

— /#  economy  is  an  added  pleasure 


our  teeth  will  respond  im- 
ediately  to  the  remarkable 
lalities  of  Listerine  Tooth 
aste  You'll  tell  the  same 
ory  that  millions  of  others 
11. 

Cleansing  agents  in  a  new- 
-discovered  formula  speed 

Jay  all  traces  of  tartar  and 
colorations.  Brilliant  white- 
ss,  that  attractive  well- 
omed  look,  shows  how  thor- 
ghly  this  dentifrice  does  its 
.  Its  gentle  action  polishes 
ur  teeth  as  effectively  as  it 
:ans  them. 

The  tooth  enamel  is  fully 
otected,  because  there  is  no 
jredient  in  Listerine  Tooth 
ste  harsh  enough  to  impair 
scratch  the  natural  hard- 
ss  of  teeth.  We  have  kept  it 
:e  from  all  gritty  substances 
urious  to  the  precious  en- 
lel  surface. 

Notice,  too,  how  fresh,  how 


consciously  invigorated,  your 
mouth  feels  after  each  brush- 
ing. The  same  pleasant  sensa- 
tion that  you  prefer  in  Lister- 
ine is  present  in  this  other 
newly-perfected  Listerine 
product. 

Of  course,  you  wouldn't  de- 
liberately buy  a  less  expensive 
tooth  paste,  simply  to  save 
money.  Teeth  are  far  too  im- 
portant for  unwise  economy. 
But — realize  that  Listerine 
Tooth  Paste,  at  no  sacrifice 
in  quality,  saves  you  just 
about  half  your  former  out- 
lay. That's  something  pleas- 
ant to  think  about.  Who  isn't 
glad  to  have  #3  extra  every 
year,  for  every  member  of  the 
family?  Lambert  Pharmacal 
Co.,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  U.  S.  A. 


The  makers  of  Listerine  Tooth  Paste 
recommend 

Pro-phy-lac-tic 
Tooth  Brushes 


With  that  $3  you  save 
buy   beauty   lotions  .  .  . 


You  can  find  a  hundred 
uses  for  the  33  that  Lis- 
terine Tooth  Paste  saves 
for  you.  We  mention  face 
creams  merely  as  a  sug- 
gestion. 


JSTERINE  TOOTH  PASTE  25" 

J 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  41 


"Oh,  Animal  Crackers!"  disrespectfully  shout  three  little  Marx  boys  as 
they  line  up  in  front  of  Papa  Samuel  Marx — Harpo,  that  silent  fourth, 
just  snaps  his  suspenders.  This  family  group  was  shot  at  Paramount 
where  Harpo,  Groucho,  Chico  and  Zeppo  are  making  "Monkey  Busi- 
ness" for  Paramount 


npHEY  tell  this  story  on  Harold  Lloyd: 
■■■      He    came    home    to    his    million-dollar 
mansion  one  evening  and  found  a  strange  man 
in  evening  dress  in  the  hall. 

"Come  in  and  have  a  drink,"  Lloyd  said 
hospitably,  and  led  him  into  one  of  the  lower 
drawing  rooms. 

During  the  drink,  Lloyd  thought  they  might 
as  well  get  acquainted. 

"Who  are  you?"  he  asked  genially. 

"I'm  the  new  footman,  sir." 

You  couldn't  blame  Lloyd  if  he  did  get  his 
servants  and  guests  mixed.  It's  quite  im- 
possible for  one  human  to  keep  track  of  either. 
They  are  too  numerous. 

\X  IRIAM  HOPKINS  and  Claudette  Colbert 
^"■*are  just  too  sweet  to  each  other  since  they 
slapped  it  out  on  the  set  at  the  Paramount 
Studio  on  Long  Island.  In  fact,  they're  so 
sweet,  that  one  can't  help  wondering.  Each 
declares  the  other's  "a  lovely  girl." 

IT'S  tough  enough  usually  to  find 
human  actors  for  retakes  on  a 
picture. 

But  for  retakes  on  "Skippy,"  they 
had  to  have  the  turtle  that  Skippy 
carries  in  a  box  in  his  pocket  during 
some  of  the  picture's  action.  The 
turtle,  in  the  meantime,  had  been 
released  in  the  goldfish  pool  on  the 
Paramount  lot. 

It  took  a  squad  of  five  propmen  and 
"grips"  three  hours  to  find  the  turtle 
before  retakes  could  be  taken. 

/^\NE  of  the  most  amazing  household  tricks 
^-'in  Hollywood  is  in  the  beautiful  home  of 
Cedric  Gibbons  and  Dolores  Del  Rio.  Cedric, 
who  is  the  most  famous  art  director  in  pictures, 
designed  it  all  in  ultra  modern  style.  Cedric's 
room  is  on  one  floor,  Dolores'  on  another,  but 
there  is  a  secret  stairway  that  leads  from  the 
dressing  room  of  one  to  the  other  and  there's 
a  trap  door  in  Dolores'  dressing  room  that 
opens  on  to  the  stairs.  How's  that  for  mystery 
and  romance,  Elinor  Glyn? 


GENEVIEVE  TOBIN  lives  at  a  fashionable 
apartment  hotel,  with  mama.    And  mama 
is  like  so  many  maters  of  the  old  days,  namely, 
Maters  Pickford,  Talmadge,  etc.    She  keeps  a 
close  eye  on  the  ambitions  of  her  daughter. 
Genevieve  goes   to   the  Midwick   Country 


Club  and  mixes  with  the  elite  who  play  polo. 
She  keeps  fit  a  la  tennis.  In  shorts,  if  you 
please. 

She  goes  out  with  boys  who  play  tennis;  such 
as  Charles  Webb,  writer;  and  Monroe  Owsley, 
actor.  She  also  has  a  couple  of  millionaires  for 
real  social  functions.  We  understand  there 
were  two  from  New  York  to  escort  her  to  the 
opening  of  her  first  big  picture. 

JUST  once  did  Genevieve  go  where  it  was  not, 
perhaps,  necessary.  A  press  dinner.  Mama 
didn't  like  it  and  told  the  publicity  department 
so  the  next  morning.  While  Genevieve  said: 
"I  think,  after  all,  Maude  Adams  was  right. 
It  is  what  one  does  before  the  public  which 
counts — one  does  not  need  to  go  places." 

Well,  Genevieve,  maybe  Maude  Adams  and 
mama  are  right.  But  it  takes  a  newcomer  a 
long  time  to  establish  herself  as  the  heir  to  even 
the  offstage  rights  of  Maude  Adams. 

Genevieve's  one  real  passion  is  football.  She 
never  misses  a  game.  And  although  the  story 
of  her  experience  at  the  Notre  Dame-Southern 
California  one  of  last  year  has  been  told  before, 
it's  so  good  we're  going  to  repeat  it. 

She  was  sitting  next  to  a  Catholic  priest. 
She  grabbed  him:  "Oh,  Lord,  what  a  play!'' 

"  Yes,  wasn't  it?  "  the  priest  answered.  "  But 
next  time,  just  call  me  Father." 

GENEVIEVE,  transplanted  from  Broadway 
stardom  to  secondary  roles  in  Hollywood  in 
an  attempt  to  build  her  into  a  picture  star,  has 
been  quoted  as  saying  that  she  doesn't  know  a 
thing  about  pictures  and  isn't  trying  to  learn. 
But  that  young  lady  doesn't  need  to  worry, 
Her  producers  took  mighty  good  care  of  her  in 
"Seed." 

In  one  of  Lois  Wilson's  biggest  scenes,  where 
Lois,  as  the  mother  cf  five  children,  battles  it  out 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE  86  ] 


The  line  will  form  to  the  right,  ladies.  This  is  Georges  Metaxa  who  has 
made  cold  British  hearts  flutter  and  promises  to  keep  it  up  over  here. 
Mr.  Metaxa  is  a  favorite  of  the  London  musical  stage  who  will  make  his 
American  debut  in  Paramount's  "Secrets  of  a  Secretary,"  starring 
Claudette  Colbert 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


83 


A  daring  young  aviator  told  me,  "My  ideal  girl  has 
of  all.  Then  she's  likeable  and  natural — with  a  cle 
that  looks  nice  even  with  all  the  make-up  blown  off! 


IS    HIS 


. .  .YO  U  ? 


94  out  of  100  bachelors,  interviewed 
during  the  past  few  months,  told  me, 
"The  wife  I'm  looking  for  is  natural." 

Are  you  the  kind  of  girl  these  men 
describe — with  the  natural  charm  of  a 
nice  complexion?  Or  have  "beauty" 
experiments  given  your  skin  a  slightly 
hothouse,  artificial  look? 

Let  me  tell  you  what  medical  au- 
thorities have  to  say  about  skin  care. 


CAMAY 


73  dermatologists  approve  Camay 

73  dermatologists  (doctors  who  spe- 
cialize in  skin  treatment)  advise  regu- 
lar soap-and-water  cleansing;  and 
approve  Camay  as  an  unusually  gentle 
soap,  safe  for  even  delicate  skins. 


No  other  soap  has  such  medical 
approval!  It  means  that  you  can 
safely  trust  your  precious  complexion 
to  Camay's  soothing  gentleness. 

Try  Camay  for  a  week.  Revel  in  its 
sculptured  smoothness,  its  deep-piled 
fragrant  lather.  How  exquisitely  soft 
your  skin  is  after  Camay's  use  —  how 
fresh  and  clean! 

Can't  you  see  it  a  little  more  clearly, 
there  in  your  mirror — the  natural 
charm  men  love  to  dream  about? 


for  the  fresh  natural  skin  men  admire 


84 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


A  matchless  combination 

ROMP  THROUGH  the  joyous  hours  of  summer  with  energy  in 
your  muscles  and  pep  in  your  spirit.  Eat  heartily  and  healthfully 
of  Kellogg's  PEP  Bran  Flakes. 

The  first  taste  tells  you  these  are  better  bran  flakes.  They're  a 
matchless  combination  with  a  matchless  flavor.  Every  bowlful 
is  packed  with  three  vital  elements.  Each  sun-brown  flake  is 
filled  with  whole-wheat  nourishment.  Each  serving  contains  just 
enough  bran  to  be  mildly  laxative.  And  each  spoonful  is  brimful 
of  the  marvelous  flavor  of  PEP  —  that  crisp,  delicious  taste  that 
only  Kellogg's  PEP  Bran  Flakes  have. 

What  a  wonderful  lunch  these  better  bran  flakes  are  when  the 
day  is  hot!  How  good  and  nourishing  for  the  children  after 
school  and  at  supper!  And  what  a  treat  for  the  men-folks  when 
they're  served  for  a  late  evening  snack !  Every  one  loves  their 
glorious  flavor. 

In  the  red-and-green  package.   Made  by  Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 


4jW*. 


PEP 


BRAN     FLAKES 


yQeef  Stew  a  la  Cody 


"Just  a  dash  more 
seasoning,  James!" 
Here  you  see  Lew 
Cody  and  his  famous 
chef,  James,  sampling 
a  bit  of  that  good  stew 


ASK  anyone  who  frequents  dinner  parties  at  Lew 
Cody's  what  the  favorite  dish  of  that  establishment 
is  and  you  will  get  the  surprising  answer — "beef  stew." 
You  would  think  as  suave  and  sophisticated  a  lad  as 
Lew  would  go  in  for  elaborate  dishes  in  the  French  manner — 
never  such  humble  fare  as  beef  stew.  But,  you  see,  there  you 
are  wrong,  for  the  culinary  piece  de  resistance  is  the  savory 
stew  which  has  become  as  well  known  as  the  genial  host  who 
serves  it. 

A  typical  menu  for  one  of  these  dinners  will  include: 

Fruit  Cocktail 

Beef  Stew 

Biscuits  with  Currant  Jelly 

Cole  Slaw 

An  Ice  for  Dessert 
Coffee 

Here  is  how  the  stew  is  made — try  it  for  some  of  your  out- 


Photoplay  Magazine 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous 
Cook  Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the 
stars.    I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


door  suppers  these  evenings.     It  will  add  a  new  jewel  to  your 
cooking  crown! 

Beef  Stew 

Place  two  pounds  of  beef  cut  in  squares,  into  cold  water. 
Bring  to  a  boil.  Let  simmer  for  several  hours,  or  until  the 
meat  falls  apart.  Add  barley  and  juice  from  one  can  of 
tomatoes.  Add  chopped  carrots,  celery,  onions,  parsley,  green 
beans  and  any  other  vegetables  in  season.  To  thicken  the 
stew,  sear  brown  butter,  thicken  a  little  water  with  flour  and 
add  to  the  stew  pan. 

If  you  should  ever  be  one  of  the  fortunate  "beef  stew" 
dinner  guests,  don't  fail  to  add  your  name  to  the  hundreds 
of  other  signatures  carved  by  famous  people  on  the  door  of 
Lew's  study  in  Beverly  Hills.  All  endorsing  more  beef  stew 
when  made  by  the  Cody  formula! 

FOR  a  delectable  looking  and  tasty  hot  weather  dish,  try 
Irene  Rich's  salad  recipe. 

Salad  a  la  Philippine 


1  head  endive 
}/2  grapefruit 
l/2  orange 

2  halves  fresh  pears 


A  narrow  strip  green  pepper 
A  narrow  strip  red  pepper 
2  tablespoons  olive  oil 
The  fruit's  juice 


Salt  and  paprika 

Remove  the  pulp  from  the  grapefruit  and  orange  without 
breaking  the  membrane.  Cut  the  pear  in  lengthwise  slices. 
Cut  the  endive  in  halves,  discard  the  outer  leaves  and  wash 
with  care. 

Dispose  the  endive  in  halves  on  plates,  set  the  pear  fan 
shape  over  these. 

Back  of  the  pears  place  a  section  of  orange  pulp,  and  a 
section  of  grapefruit  just  above  the  tips  of  the  leaves. 

To  the  fruit  juice  add  the  olive  oil  and  salt;  beat  vigor- 
ously, and  pour  over  the  salad.  This  is  a  recipe  for  two, 
of  course. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 

85 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  82 


Does  your  husband  know  about  this,  Joan?  Young  Mrs.  Fairbanks,  Jr., 
is  starting  rumors,  we  fear,  by  appearing  in  this  chummy  pose  with  that 
screen  villain,  Monroe  Owsley.  It's  all  in  the  day's  work,  though,  for 
you  will  see  Joan  Crawford  and  Monroe  in  her  new  picture.  The  public 
is  taking  to  Owsley 


with  Tobin  for  her  husband's  love,  poor  Lois  is 
so  upstaged  that  she  had  to  talk  with  the  back 
of  her  head  to  the  camera,  while  Miss  Tobin 
got  full-face. 

WESLEY  RUGGLES  tells  the 
one  about  a  famous  New  York 
actress  who  came  to  Hollywood  and 
was  at  last  given  an  interview  with 
one  of  the  executives.  The  executive 
asked  her  a  hundred  questions  about 
her  capabilities,  which  annoyed  her 
no  little. 

At  last  he  said,  "Say,  what's  your 
name?" 

The  girl  answered  flippantly, 
"Dumbbell." 

The  executive  shook  his  head, 
"No,  no,  that  won't  do.  If  you  want 
to  go  into  pictures  you'll  have  to 
change  your  name !" 


GLORIA  SWANSON  was  leaving  for  New 
York.  We  visited  her  home  just  as  the 
trunks  were  being  loaded.    We  counted  ten. 

We  made  inquiries.  Ten  trunks  for  two 
weeks  in  New  York! 

Then  we  investigated.  "It  costs  Gloria 
$2,500  as  a  minimum  for  a  little  trip  like  that. 
She  can't  go  in  anything  but  a  drawing  room. 
Think  what  the  passengers  would  say!  She 
can't  get  one  room  at  a  hotel.  She  must  have 
a  suite.  Imagine  reporters  visiting  her  in  one 
little  room.  The  story  would  go  out  immedi- 
ately that  she  was  broke.  She  doesn't  even 
dare  go  without  a  maid.  And  her  clothes  must 
be  not  only  the  latest  but  since  it  is  Gloria,  even 
a  little  in  advance  of  the  latest." 

The  penalties  of  fame. 

THERE  are  new  experiences  under  the  sun 
even  for  newspaper  reporters. 
One  of  Hollywood's  most  agile  read  in  his 


newspaper's  telegraphic  reports  that  Nils 
Asther  had  become  a  daddy.  He  promptly 
telephoned  Nils  (recently  returned  to  the  old 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  homestead)  for  con- 
firmation. Nils  insisted  he  knew  nothing  about 
it  and  implied  he  didn't  quite  believe  it.  The 
reporter  gasped.  "I  have  been  the  first  to 
announce  impending  divorce  to  one  of  the  prin- 
cipals and  even  impending  marriages,"  he  said, 
"but  this  is  the  first  time  I've  been  called  upon 
to  convince  a  star  he  was  really  a.  father." 

CECIL  DE  MILLE'S  contract  with 
M-G-M  is  ended.  He  plans  to  go 
to  Europe  with  his  wife  for  an  "in- 
definite stay."  And  this  may  mark 
the  passing  from  Hollywood  of  one  of 
the  greatest  showmen  and  masters 
of  hokum  de  luxe  the  films  have  ever 
known.  It  was  on  the  De  Mille  lot 
that  the  "yes  man"  bloomed  and 
flourished. 

He  will  discover  that  in  German 
it's  ja,  in  French  it's  qui,  in  Spain 
they  say  it  si — and  so  on. 

V\  THEN  Doug,  Jr.,  was  awakened  out  of  a 
**  sound  sleep  by  the  telephone  and  the 
operator  said,  "Just  a  minute,  Rome,  Italy, 
calling,"  he  thought  it  was  a  gag.  But  it 
wasn't.  His  father  had  put  through  a  call  from 
Rome  to  Mary  in  Hollywood,  but  when  he 
called  for  the  Fairbanks  residence  the  local 
operator  got  it  mixed  and  rang  Doug,  Jr., 
instead.  When  father  heard  son's  voice  he  was 
so  annoyed  at  the  extra  toll  charge  that  he 
didn't  even  say  "hello"  to  him. 

/CERTAIN  wise  ones  within  the  Paramount 
^-•'sanctum  insist  that  red-headed  Wynne 
Gibson  is  headed  for  stardom. 

"  When  she  sobs — she  sobs.  It  isn't  technique 
with  her  as  it  is  with  Chatterton,  for  instance. 

"Of  course — she'll  have  to  be  tamed  a  bit" 
— a  reluctant  admission. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  88  1 


A  movie  child  grown  up.  Madge 
Evans  who  was  reared  in  the  silent 
days  of  the  screen,  now  talks  as 
feminine  lead  for  Ramon  Novarro  in 
"Son  of  India"  —  a  new  M-G-M 
picture 


86 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,   1931 


87 


/ 


// 


ymawaiaiui  rwvu  t 


/N/T/JNT 

ODORONO 


4olved  eve^ij 

oj /wrJfiMutwn  amfovl 


INSTANT     PROTECTION 

This  amazing  new  Instant  Odorono  may  be  applied  to 
the  underarms  any  time— day  or  night.  It  stops  perspira- 
tion instantly'.  Then  your  gowns  are  safe  from  perspira- 
tion damage.  And  no  underarm  odor— so  repellent  to 
others— can  sully  your  charming  freshness! 

APPLY  IT  WITH  THE  NEW  INSTANT  APPLICATOR 

Attached  to  the  cap  of  the  Instant  Odorono  bottle  is  a 
convenient  sanitary  sponge  applicator.  Just  a  few  swift 
strokes  suffice!  No  need  to  use  cotton!  Nothing  messy 
or  greasy.  Nothing  to  leave  a  tell-tale  odor  of  its  own. 

NEW     QUICK-DRYING     FORMULA 

Because  of  its  quick-drying  formula  Instant  Odorono  be- 
comes one  of  your  simplest  dressing  table  rites.  Before 
you  have  finished  with  cream,  powder  and  lipstick — 
it's  dry!  And  you  are  ready  for  your  frock. 

ALL    THE    FAMOUS    ODORONO     DEPENDABILITY 

Depend  upon  Instant  Odorono  for  1  to  3  days'  complete 
protection.  Do  not  confuse  it  with  ineffective  prepara- 
tions .  . .  designed  merely  to  offset  odor.  Instant  Odorono, 
a  liquid,  is  a  deodorant  and  non-perspirant  that  keeps 
the  underarm  absolutely  dry  and  odorless. 


the  editor  oj  Voqiie  U  on  the  cwr 

Every  Thursday  morning  at  11 :30  Eastern  Daylight  Time,  over 
WJZ  and  associated  N.  B.C.  stations,  Mrs.  Edna  Wool  man  Chase, 
the  talented  Editor-in-Chief  of  Vogue,  will  give  her  advice  on 
what  to  wear  and  how  to  wear  it. 

Tune  in  on  this  Instant  Odorono  broadcast,  and,  as  you  think 
of  your  clothes,  don't  forget  that  Instant  Odorono  is  the  best 
means  of  protecting  the  finest  dresses  that  you  own.  For  where 
there  is  perspiration,  beware  of  clothes  damage. 


mecdvt  111 


FAMILIAR     TRAGEDIES      #1 


THE    GENEROUS    HOST   SPENT 


$28 


SHE     RUINED    HER    GOWN    ....    $69 


He  took  her  to  dinner  and  the  theatre  .  .  .  she  was  flattered 
to  death  to  go.  She  wore  the  best  stitch  she  had  .  .  .  and 
looked  lovely.  But  the  theatre  was  stuffy,  and  she  per- 
spired under  the  arms.  So  her  best  gown  was  ruined  .  .  . 
stained  and  faded  by  the  acids  of  perspiration— to  say 
nothing  of  the  offense  this  perspiration  odor  gave  to  her 
escort.  Oh  well,  and  a-lack-a-day!  There  are  plenty  of 
good  men  in  the  world  .  .  .  but  good  dresses  are  hard  to 
find.  A  really  smart  girl  would  have  used  Instant  Odorono 
.  .  .  and  saved  herself  such  troubles. 

THE  ODORONO    COMPANY.   INC..  NEW  YORK.  N.  Y 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast   from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  86  ] 


The  best  film  footage  of  the  month!  Reading  from  top  to  bottom  you 
will  find  thirty-five,  count  them,  reasons  why  Lilyan  Tashman  keeps  her 
standing  as  one  of  the  best  dressed  women  on  the  screen.  Note  the 
boudoir  slippers  on  the  third  shelf — same  design  but  different  color 

combinations 


Well,  when  Clara  Bow  sobs,  she  sobs,  too. 
The  most  natural  born  actress  among  us.  And 
Paramount's  bearded  ones  have  been  trying  to 
tame  her  for— how  long? 

1/  ARIETY  tells  the  story  of  a 
*  studio  head  who  turned  down  a 
writer's  story  and  was  asked  why  by 
the  author. 

"I  don't  like  it,"  replied  the  ex- 
ecutive. 

"What  was  the  trouble?"  insisted 
the  writer. 

"That's  an  unfair  question,"  re- 
plied the  executive. 

XT  EEPING  up  with  the  color  of  Hollywood 
■^-girls'  hair  is  as  difficult  as  keeping  up  with 
their  amorous  adventures.    Joan  Crawford  is 


a  blonde  now.    You'll  see  the  crowning  glory  in 
"This  Modern  Age." 

The  other  day  Joan  sighed,  "I  wish  I'd  stay 
between  pictures  just  long  enough  to  go  to  bed 
for  three  nights  without  a  hair  net  on."  She 
has  her  hair  finger-waved  every  evening  so  that 
it  will  be  perfect  for  the  next  day's  work.  A 
hairdresser  comes  to  her  house  every  night  and 
sometimes,  if  Joan  has  to  catch  a  preview,  the 
star's  head  is  worked  on  while  she's  nibbling  a 
sandwich  from  a  tray. 

THE  D.  A.  R.  laid  itself  open  to  a  bit  of  kid- 
ding by  protesting  against  the  casting  of 
Alan  Mowbray,  young  English  actor,  as  George 
Washington  in  the  George  Arliss  picture  "Alex- 
ander Hamilton."  It  seems  someone  objected 
to  an  Englishman  playing  the  role  of  the 
Father  of  Our  Country. 


But  they  forgot  that  George  Washington 
was  an  English  citizen! 

EDDIE  QUILLAN  is  telling  the 
story  (and  try  to  stop  him)  about 
the  comedy  writer  who  was  seized  by 
two  burglars  and  tied  to  the  bed  post. 
One  of  the  thieves  said,  "How  about 
a  gag?" 

The  writer  smiled.  "Swell,"  he 
said,  "have  you  heard  the  one 
about  .  .  ." 

Then  the  lead  pipe  fell. 

T\  7E  learned  something  new  the  other  day. 
*V  A  number  of  stars  hire  their  own  stand- 
ins.  Not  doubles,  mind  you,  but  the  boys  and 
girls  who  are  measured  for  camera  distances, 
etc.  And  you  don't  count  until  you  have  one, 
either. 

Joan  Crawford's  present  stand-in  girl  is  the 
ex-wife  of  her  brother,  Hal  Le  Sueur. 

""THREE  Items  Entitled  "Film  Fame": 
-*-  1 — For  a  joke,  Jack  Pickford  walked  onto 
the  stage  where  "Once  in  a  Lifetime"  was 
being  played  in  San  Francisco.  He  appeared 
for  several  minutes  as  one  of  the  Schlcpkin 
Brothers  in  the  farce.  NOBODY  IN  THE 
AUDIENCE  RECOGNIZED  HIM! 

2 — Bryant  Washburn  ran  down  a  child  in 
Los  Angeles  the  other  day.  She  was  slightly 
bruised.  He  drove  her  to  her  home,  and  turned 
her  over  to  her  parents,  and  left  his  name. 
When  the  police  got  an  official  report  of  it  from 
the  girl's  mother,  she  only  remembered  that 
the  man's  name  was  "Washboard,  or  some- 
thing like  that!" 

3— Years  ago,  Gertrude  Robinson  was  a  star 
in  Biograph  films.  Today  she  works  at  the 
studios  as  "stand-in"  for  Betty  Compson. 

AN  earnest  salesman  of  Universal 
stories  (publicity  department!) 
was  telling  a  reporter  of  the  burial  of 
Yogi  Hamid  Bey,  29-year-old  Egyp- 
tian mystery  man,  on  the  Universal 

lot.       [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  92  ] 


Lend  an  ear  to  this !  Signet  earrings 
are  the  newest  Hollywood  fad.  Wynne 
Gibson  shows  you  how  it's  done  here. 
The  first  initial  goes  on  the  right  ear- 
ring, the  second  on  the  left  one 


88 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


89 


Your  Simplest  Snapshot 

may  win  a  10,000  Prize 


Any  snapshot  made  in  May,  June,  July  or  August,  1931,  stands  a 
chance  in  Kodak's  $100,000  Competition  for  Amateur  Picture-Takers 


HERE'S  your  chance  to  win 
world  renown,  and  a  §10,000 
international  grand  award — with  a 
simple  snapshot!  Kodak  is  offering 
$100,000  in  an  international  com- 
petition for  interesting  pictures. 

1,000  prizes  totaling  $2^,000  are 
for  pictures  from  the  United  States 
alone.  There  are  141  prizes  in  each 
of  six  picture  classes  that  cover 
every  conceivable  picture  subject. 

The  first-prize  win- 
ner in  each  class  auto- 
matically enters  the  in- 
ternational judging  at 
Geneva,  Switzerland, 
where  $16,000  more 
will  be  awarded. 

This  contest  is  for 
amateurs  only.  Experi- 
ence is  not  needed.  Pic- 
ture interest  is  what 
counts.  Anyone  with  a 
Brownie,  a  Hawk-Eye 


or  the  simplest  Kodak  has  the  same 
chance  as  users  of  costly  cameras. 
Winners  of  the  U.  S.  prizes  will  be 
determined  by  a  committee  of  dis- 
tinguished judges  consisting  of  Rear 
Admiral  Richard  E.  Byrd,  Mary 
Roberts  Rinehart,  Rudolf  Eicke- 
meyer,  eminent  photographer; 
Howard  Chandler  Christy,  cele- 
brated artist;  Kenneth  Wilson 
Williams,  editor  of  "  Kodakery." 

Ask  your  dealer  for 
rules  leaflet  or  write  to 
Eastman  Kodak  Co., 
Rochester,  N.  Y.  Make 
lots  of  snapshots.  Clip 
the  entry  blank.  Enter 
to  win. 


Kodak  Film  in  the  familiar  yel- 
low box,  or  the  new  Kodak  Veri- 
chrome  Film  in  the  yellow  box 
with  checkered  strifes,  gives  pic- 
tures of  the  prize -winning  kind. 


Tune  in  for  news  of  the  con- 
test over  N.  B.  C.  Red  Net- 
work every  Friday  at  10 
p.m.  Eastern  daylight  sav- 
ing time.  Pacific  Coast  pro- 
gram, 9:30  p.m.  Pacific  time. 


#25,000  in  U.  S.  Prizes 

SIX  PICTURE  CLASSES 

1,000  Chances  to  Win! 

YOU  may  submit  pictures  of  any  subject  in 
this  contest.  Prizes  will  be  awarded  in  6 
classes,  and  your  entries  will  be  placed  for  judging 
in  the  classes  in  which  they  are  most  likely  to  win. 

A.  Children.  Any  picture  in  which  the  principal 
interest  is  a  child  or  children. 

B.  Scenes.  Landscapes,  marine  views,  city,  street, 
travel  or  country  scenes,  etc. 

C.  Games,  Sports,  Pastimes,  Occupations.  Base- 
ball, tennis.golf,  fishing, gardening, carpentry, etc. 

D.  Still  Life  and  Nature  Subjects,  Architecture  and 
Architectural  Detail,  Interiors.  Art  objects,  curios, 
cut  flowers,  or  any  still  life  object  in  artistic 
arrangement,  any  nature  subject,  etc.  Exteriors 
or  interiors  of  homes,  churches,  schools,  offices, 
libraries;  statues,  etc. 

E.  Informal  Portraits.  Close-up  or  full  figure  of  a 
person  or  persons,  excepting  pictures  in  which  the 
principal  interest  is  a  child  or  children.  (See  Class 
A  above.) 

F.  Animals.  Pets.  Birds.  Pets  (dogs,  cats,  etc.l; 
farm  animals  or  fowls;  wild  animals  or  birds, 
either  at  large  or  in  zoos. 

Prizes  for  United  States 

GRAND  PRIZE:  Bronze  Medal  and  32,500 

141  PRIZES  IN  EACH  CLASS 

For  the  best  picture  in  each  class $500 

For  the  next  picture  in  each  class 250 

For  the  next  picture  in  each  class 100 

For  each  of  next  5  pictures  in  each  class.  .      25 

For  each  of  next  133  pictures  in  each  class      10 

(847  prizes,  totaling  $16,330) 

STATE  PRIZES  FOR  CHILD  PICTURES 

For  the  best  child  pictures  made  and  entered 
in  May  and  June  from  each  of  the  48  states,  also 
the  District  of  Columbia,  Hawaii  and    Alaska: 

First  Prize,  each  state $100 

Second  Prize,  each  state 50 

Third  Prize,  each  state 20 

(153  state,  territorial  prizes,  totaling  $8,670) 

International  Awards 

The  best  picture  in  each  class  from  each  country 
will  automatically  enter  the  International  Com- 
petition to  be  judged  for  later  awards  at  Geneva, 
Switzerland. 

GRAND  AWARD:  Silver  Trophy  and  $10,000 

SDC  CLASS   AWARDS:    Best  picture   in  each 
class,  a  Gold  Medal  and  $1,000 

*  *  * 

Total  U.  S.  Prize  Money $25,000 

International  Awards 16,000 

Prize  Money  for  rest  of  world 59,000 

NOTE  that  one  picture  may  win  a  $500  class 
prize,  the  $2,500  grand  prize  for  U.  S.  A.  .  .  . 
plus  a  $1,000  international  class  award  and  the 
$10,000  international  grand  award  ...  a  total 
of  $14,000  for  a  single  snapshot. 


Entry  Blank  -Clip  it  Now! 

Mail  blank  with  your  entries  to  Prize  Contest  Office, 
Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Rochester,  N.  Y.  Do  not  place 
your  name  on  either  the  front  or  back  of  any  picture. 

Name 


iPUdMt  Print 


Street  Address _ 


Town  and  Stale 


Make  of  Camera 

Make  of  Film 

L-2 > 


KODAK  INTERNATIONAL  8100,000  COMPETITION  fa&r*F. 


(jPictuze-JaA&i* 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


ITS  WRITTENAe  STARS 


Leo's  crown  fit 
better  than  ever 


T  F  only  you  could  take  a  peek  through  the  tele- 
scope with  Leo,  what  a  thrill  you  would  have 
watching  M-G-M's  brilliant  stars,  directors, 
writers  and  technical  experts — all  busy  on  the 
greatest  production  program  in  the  history  of 
this  company.  Week  after  week  during  the  com- 
ing season  new  M-G-M  hits  will  come  out  of 
that  miracle  city  known  as  the  M-G-M  Studio. 
Mighty  productions  that  are  destined  to  take 
their  place  with  such  M-G-M  triumphs  of  past 
seasons  as  "The  Secret  Six,"  "Reducing,"  "Our 
Dancing  Daughters,"  "Anna  Christie,"  "The 
Divorcee,"  "Min  and  Bill,"  "Paid,"  "Strangers 
May  Kiss,"  "Trader  Horn."  It's  written  in  the 
stars  that  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  will  again 
prove  during  1931-1932  that  it  is  the  greatest 
producing  organization  in  motion  pictures. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


1931-1932  Will  Be 
CROWNING  GLORY 

These  famous  stars  and  featured  players  will  make  the  coming 
year  the  greatest  in  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  history: 


-G-M's 


Marion  DAVIES        Wallace  BEERY 
Marie  DRESSLER  Greta  GARBO 
William  HAINES      Buster  KEATON 
Ramon  NOVARRO  Norma  SHEARER 


Joan  CRAWFORD 
John  GILBERT 
Robert  MONTGOMERY 
Lawrence  TIBBETT 


Alfred  LUNT        Lynn  FONTAINE 


Dorothy  Appleby 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Edwin  Bartlett 
William   Bakewell 
Charles  Bickford 
Lilian  Bond 
Edwina   Booth 
John  Mack  Brown 
Janet  Currie 


Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Douglass 
James  Durante 
Cliff  Edwards 
Phyllis  Elgar 
Madge  Evans 
Clark  Gable 
Ralph  Graves 
Charlotte  Greenwood 


Neil  Hamilton 
Helen  Hayes 
Leila  Hyams 
Jean  Hersholt 
Hedda  Hopper 
Leslie  Howard 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 


John  Miljan 
Ray   Milland 
C.  Montenegro 
Polly  Moran 
Karen   Morely 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ivor  Novello 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita   Page 


Irene  Purcell 
Marjorie  Rambeau 
C.  Aubrey  Smith 
Ruth  Selwyn 
Gus  Shy 
Lewis  Stone 
Ernest  Torrcnce 
Lester  Vail 
Robert  Young 


In  stories  by  the  world's  most  brilliant  writers.  Directed  by  men  who  are  making  screen  history. 


You'll  Soon 
APPLAUD 

Marion  DAVIES 

in  "Five  and  Ten" 

Norma  SHEARER 

in  "A  Free  Soul" 

Marie  DRESSLER 

Polly  MORAN 

in  "Politics" 

Robert  MONTGOMERY 

in  "The  Man  in  Possession" 

Greta   GARBO 

in  "Susan  Lenox,  Her  Fall 
and  Rise" 

and  many  others 


%  Jr. 

Ar£s 


GOLDWYN-MAYER 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE 


Ruth  Etting  puts  across  one  of  those 
low,  so  blue,  croons  for  the  benefit  of 
the  mike.  You  will  hear  this  expres- 
sion in  Vitaphone's  "Freshman  Love" 


"They  actually  buried  him  alive 
for  two  hours—" 

"Hey,  what's  so  unusual  about 
that,"  a  man  standing  nearby  inter- 
rupted. "Some  executives  have  been 
buried  alive  for  years  out  here.  Put 
that  in  the  paper." 

As  he  rushed  from  the  room,  he 
turned  his  head. 

"But  for  heaven's  sake  don't  print 
who  said  it.  I  work  here.  I  know. 
But  I  want  to  work  here  in  the 
future." 

HOLLYWOOD — and  eighteen  women — can 
keep  a  secret. 

Recently  the  fifteen  members  of  the  Holly- 
wood Women's  Press  Club  and  three  star 
hostesses — Evelyn  Brent,  June  Collyer  and 
Lucille  Gleason — gave  a  benefit  bridge  party 
for  a  certain  actress  in  desperate  financial 
straits. 

Her  name  was  withheld.  And  not  one  of 
those  eighteen  girls  cheeped. 

Old  Cal  knows,  and  even  he  can  keep  a 
secret  when  the  publication  of  her  name  would 
cause  embarrassment  to  the  lady  who  needed 
the  money. 

•"THERE'S  been  a  rumor  floating  around 
*■  loose,  as  rumors  are  wont  to  float,  that 
Doug,  Jr.,  has  discarded  his  well-known  bat- 
tered green  hat  for  the  high  hat,  now  that  he's 
become  a  star. 

But  I'm  making  a  little  side  bet  that  that 

92 


rumor  is  all  wrong.  Doug's  a  smart  kid — what's 
more,  he  uses  his  head.  He  knows,  for  instance, 
that,  although  he  has  star  billing,  he  needs  good 
stories  to  make  the  grade.  He's  working  to- 
ward that. 

He's  not  taking  just  anything  that  comes  his 
way  and  if  that's  being  high  hat  make  the  most 
of  it. 

I  think  it's  being  just  plenty  smart. 

WE   were    talking    with    a    Los 
Angeles  lady  about  "Seed." 
"I've  seen  it  four  times,"  she  said, 
"and  cried  harder  each  one.     Oh,  I 
had  such  a  lovely  time." 

We  wondered  if  that  shouldn't  tell 
the  producers  something.  Women 
do  have  a  lovely  time  whenever  they 
cry! 

OEYMOUR,  Photoplay's  fashion  guide, 
''-'went  to  see  Tallulah  Bankhead  in  "Tar- 
nished Lady"  for  entertainment  and  came  back 
mumbling  about  the  waste  of  real  beauty  it 
was  to  let  her  look  as  she  did. 

Here  are  a  few  of  the  things  wrong  with  this 
glamorous  lady,  according  to  Seymour's  crit- 
ical sixth  fashion  sense. 

You  may  not  agree,  but — 

He  says  the  length  of  her  hair  is  not  smart 
and  certainly  not  becoming. 

Her  face  is  too  long  to  have  her  hair  cling  so 
flatly  to  its  sides. 

It  emphasizes  all  the  bad  contours.  Under 
the  small  hats  which  Miss  Bankhead  wears,  the 
dangling  locks  look  simply  uncombed.  Bad, 
growls  Seymour.    Very  bad. 

rPHEN,  it  seems  that  Tallulah's  clothes  are 
■*-  not  all  that  they  should  be.  The  lines  are 
frequently  bad,  stressing  the  figure  where  they 
shouldn't.  And  the  hats,  which  in  practically 
every  case  are  close  fitting,  only  tend  to  make 
her  face  look  long  and  square  across  the  cheek 
bones. 

Her  make-up  doesn't  measure  up  to  Sey- 
mour's standards,  either.  Miss  Bankhead's 
mouth  appears  overly  large  and  rather  shape- 
less when  she  laughs.  And  her  naturally 
beautiful  eyes  are  spoiled  by  eye  shadow  and  a 
bad  line  to  the  eyebrows. 

Tallulah  is  a  personality  and  a  beauty — but 
she  needs  a  skilled  hand  in  make-up  and  cos- 
tuming as  a  guide  for  her  next  screen  appear- 


ONE  constantly  hears  the  ever  recurring 
question: 
What's  become  of  so-and-so? 
Well,  we  found  out  the  other  day  what  has 
become  of  Ella  Hall,  curly  headed  little  star  of 
yesterday. 

She's  working  as  a  saleslady  at  $25  a  week  to 
support  her  three  children  because  her  husband 
failed  on  his  alimony. 

CARMAN  BARNES  wrote  "School  Girl." 
She  is  under  age.  She  was  considered  a 
genius. 

Someone  in  the  East  saw  her  and  decided 
she  was  Movie  material. 

They  signed  her  at  $1,000  a  week  now; 
$1,250  a  week  in  a  few  months,  and  $5,000  a 
week  at  the  end  of  three  years — provided  the 
options  are  taken  up. 

First,  she  was  to  star  in  her  own  writings. 
"With  and  By  Carman  Barnes."  A  good 
thought,  but  when  they  came  to  adapt  her 
story,  this  was  discarded. 

Then  she  was  to  play  the  part  of  a  Southern 
debutante. 

Well,  she's  finally  playing  the  role  of  a 
tattered  gal  of  the  South — sort  of  a  white  trash 
interpretation  in  "  Strangers  and  Lovers." 


A  ND  here's  the  funny  side.  Eight  weeks  are 
-*»-allowed  on  the  production  schedule  for  a 
not-too-big  picture.  When  three  weeks  is  a 
long  shooting  schedule  for  pictures  in  this  day 
of  hurry-up  talkies. 

And  the  eight  weeks  are  to  furnish  ample 
time  for  proper  photography.  The  girl's  lines 
need  much  camera  attention. 

She  has  one  lucky  break. 

Tom  Douglas  of  stage  fame  has  been  cast 
opposite  her. 

He  can  teach  her  much — and  we  understand 
he  is  willing  and  so  is  she! 

T^OROTHY  SEBASTIAN,  in  Hollywood, 
-•-^called  Alice  Terry,  in  Nice,  France,  over 
long  distance  telephone — just,  if  you  please,  to 
chat  a  bit,  and  the  two  friends  were  so  thrilled 
at  hearing  each  other's  voices  that  all  they  did 
— for  fifty  dollars'  worth  of  miracle — was  to 
squeal  at  each  other  in  glee. 

"NJILS  ASTHER  has  returned  to  M-G-M 
■L^  under  a  long-term  contract.  What  will 
happen  now? 

It  was  at  that  studio,  before  the  talkies  came, 
that  Nils'  first  astonishing  popularity  began  to 
grow.  No  other  male  player — with  the  excep- 
tion of  Jack  Gilbert — was  more  in  demand  than 
he. 

Then  came  the  microphone.  Nils  had  a 
strong  Swedish  accent,  Jack  a  constrained 
voice. 

Both  were  hurt  by  that  little  device. 

But  other  foreign  actors  have  succeeded — 
notably  Paul  Lukas.  They  say  Nils  has  a  good 
chance  of  coming  back  strong.  He  had  ex- 
pected to  join  his  wife,  Vivian  Duncan,  and  the 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  103  ] 


Where's  the  grass  skirt,  Mr.  Ziegf  eld? 
Here's  how  Reri,  the  South  Sea 
island  beauty  of  "Tabu,"  actually 
looked  upon  arrival  in  San  Francisco. 
Later,  she  arrived  in  New  York  garbed 
in  a  grass  skirt  to  join  the  Ziegfeld 
chorus — misplaced  enthusiasm  of  the 
press  agent 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


93 


CATALI N  A  5WiM  5U  ITS 


When  "movies"  get  away  from 
|  megaphones  and  "mikes",  Cata- 
lina  Swim  Suits  come  in  for  their 
inning!  Here  is  JOAN  CRAWFORD 
M-G-M  Star,  fresh  from  her 
triumphs  in  "Torch  Song"; 
DOROTHY  JORDAN  who  does 
some  nice,  nauti-cal  work  in  "Ship- 
mates"; LEILA  HYAMS  who  smiles 
her  way  through  M-G-M's  "Cheri 
Bibi";  MARY  DORAN-rf  big  fea- 
ture all  by  herself;  JOHN  MACK 
BROWN,  a  big  shot  in  M-G-M 't 
latest  thriller,  "Secret  Six. " 


Lfou,  taoiscan  wear  the  swim  suits 


I  that  screen  stars  say  are  smart! 


How  often  have  you  admired  one  of  your  screen  favor- 
ites in  an  alluring,  form-fitting  swim  suit  as  she  appeared 
in  some  bathing  scene ...  or  at  her  California  beach  club 
...  or  at  some  gay  swimnfing  pool  party! 

Perhaps  you  have  wished  that  you,  too,  might  wear 
such  a  suit . . .  the  last  word  in  water-wear . . .  fresh  from 
the  style-studios  of  Holly wood.Well,  your  wish  can  now 
come  true!  For,  thanks  to  Catalina,  you  can  now  wear 
the  suits  that  screen  stars  choose  for  their  very  own. 

Here  are  suits  into  which  has  been  crafted  the  style- 
sense,  the  romance,  the  imagery  of  Hollywood —  suits 
with  the  spirit  of  youth  and  the  spirit  of  play!  In  one 
piece  models!  Two  piece  suits!  Ensembles! 


Colors?  Here  are  colors  that  have  captured  the  gold 
of  sun  and  sand  . .  .  the  blues  and  greens  of  the  sea  .  .  . 
colors  cool  and  clean  as  the  breath  of  the  trade  winds ! 

If  you  want  to  look  your  swim-suit-best  this  year,  be 
sure  to  see  the  new  Catalinas  at  your  dealer's.  Learn 
how  you,  too,  can  enjoy  the  "freedom  of  the  seas"  in 
the  most  style-full,  color-full  suit  you've  ever  had  on. 
No  bag  or  sag  —  no  mar  or  wrinkle  —  in  the  water  or 
out.  For  each  Catalina  is  cut  by  band  and  rightly,  tightly 
knit-to-fit  by  our  original  Ribstitch  process. 

If  your  dealer  does  not  have  them  in  stock,  write  us 
direct  and  we'll  see  that  you  are  promptly  supplied. 
Pacific  Knitting  Mills,  443  S.  San  Pedro  St.,  Los  Angeles. 


Q 


uestions 


tf  A 


nswers 


Read  This  Before 
Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call 
for  unduly  long  answers, 
such  as  synopses  of  plays. 
Do  not  inquire  concerning 
religion,  scenario  writing, 
or  studio  employment. 
Write  on  only  one  side  of 
the  paper.  Sign  your  full 
name  and  address.  If  you 
want  a  personal  reply,  be 
sure  to  enclose  a  stamped, 
self-addressed     envelope. 


Marlene  Dietrich  seated  at  the  piano  in  her  Berlin  home. 

This  was  taken  shortly  before  she  came  to  America  to  win 

success  in  the  talkies 


Casts  and 
Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much 
space,  we  treat  such  sub- 
jects in  a  different  way  from 
other  questions.  For  this 
kind  of  information,  a 
stamped,  addressed  en- 
velope must  always  be  sent. 
Address  all  inquiries  to 
Questions  and  Answers, 
Photoplay  Magazine,  221 
VV.57thSt.,New York  City. 


MUSIC!  Music!  Music!  Imagine  my 
surprise  this  month  when  hundreds  of 
letters  came  in  from  all  parts  of  the 
world,  asking  the  name  of  the  music  that 
Marlene  Dietrich  played  in  "Dishonored."  It 
certainly  caused  a  flutter  in  the  hearts  of  music 
lovers.  I  won't  keep  you  in  suspense  any 
longer.  It  is  an  old  Viennese  composition 
called  "  Danube  Waves  Waltz."  And  Marlene, 
being  an  accomplished  musician,  needed  no 
double  to  do  the  playing  for  her.  In  April  she 
returned  from  a  vacation  in  Europe,  bringing 
her  little  daughter,  Maria,  back  with  her. 

Ruth  Lee  Cook,  Narbeth,  Penna.:  Ruth, 
your  big  handsome  hero,  Lawrence  Tibbett, 
made  his  debut  into  this  world  of  ours  via 
Bakersfield,  Calif.  The  gala  day  was  November 
16.  Larry  is  married  to  Grace  Mackey  Smith 
and  they  have  twin  sons  about  ten  years  old. 
When  not  making  pictures  Larry  spends  his 
time  singing  in  opera  and  in  the  bath-tub. 

Virginia  Stevens,  Charlotte,  N.  C:  If 
you  will  look  back  through  your  previous  issues 
of  Photoplay,  you  will  find  that  we  printed  a 
picture  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Chester  Morris  in 
July,  1929,  and  one  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert 
Montgomery  in  June,  1931.  The  Mont- 
gomerys  have  one  daughter  and  the  Morrises 
have  a  son  and  daughter. 

Marcia  Lentz,  Indianapolis,  Ind.:  Now, 
Marcia,  don't  be  trying  to  form  another 
triangle.  Gary  Cooper  and  Lupe  Velez  still 
love  each  other,  according  to  latest  reports. 
Gary  is  6  feet,  2,  and  has  black  hair  and  blue 
eyes. 

Irvin  Melbeck,  Wellston,  Mo.:  You're 
wrong,  Irv,  Edna  Wallace  Hopper  and  Hedda 
Hopper  are  not  the  same  person.  Edna  was 
the  third  wife  of  De  Wolf  Hopper,  and  Hedda 
was  his  fifth  wife.  Yes,  and  there  was  a  sixth 
wife,  too. 

Katherine  Hile,  Ocean  Park,  Calif.:  I 
see  you're  going  in  for  altitude  records  now. 
Well,  here  they  are:  Richard  Dix  and  William 
Haines  are  each  6  feet  tall;  Ramon  Novarro  is 
5  feet,  10,  and  Charles  Chaplin  stops  at  5  feet, 
4.  Sylvia  Beecher  was  the  cute  girl  who  played 
opposite  the  smiling  Chevalier  in  "Innocents 
of  Paris."  She  just  seemed  to  drop  out  of  sight 
after  that. 

B.  R  a  venal,  Melbourne,  Australia: 
Thanx  for  all  the  good  wishes.  It  was  Nils 
Asther  who  played  the  role  of  Raoul  Duval  in 
"The  Loves  of  an  Actress,"  starring  Pola 
Negri.  Pola,  by  the  way,  is  back  in  Hollywood 
ready  to  start  on  a  talkie. 


Gay,  Sacramento,  Calif.:  Gay,  here's  the 
first-aid  treatment  for  that  high  blood  pressure 
of  yours.  James  Rennie  played  in  both 
"Illicit"  and  "Girl  of  the  Golden  West."  In 
the  first  mentioned,  he  was  known  as  Dick  Ives 
and  in  the  other  he  was  the  Mexican  bandit. 
Harry  Bannister,  who  played  the  role  of  the 
sheriff  in  "Girl  of  the  Golden  West,"  is  the 
husband  of  Ann  Harding. 

Florence  Ostermeier,  Sprincfield,  III.: 
Sorry,  Flo,  but  I  don't  know  of  any  stars  who 
are  selling  their  old  clothes.  If  I  did,  I'd  buy  a 
couple  of  suits.  The  costumes  worn  by  Joan 
Crawford  in  "Dance  Fools,  Dance,"  were  de- 
signed by  Adrian. 

Lois  Lytle,  Enid,  Okla.:  I  can  assure  you 
that  Clark  Gable  has  caused  a  riot  in  more 
states  than  Oklahoma.  How  the  ladies  have 
fallen  for  that  boy!  Here's  the  low-down  on 
him.  Born  in  Cadiz,  Ohio,  February  1,  1901, 
stands  6  feet,  1;  weighs  190  and  has  brown  hair 
and  grey  eyes.  Has  several  years  of  stage  ex- 
perience back  of  him.  Believe  it  or  not,  he 
broke  into  the  talkies  as  a  bad,  bold  bandit  in 
"The  Painted  Desert."  Other  pictures  since 
then  are  "Dance  Fools,  Dance,"  "The  Easiest 
Way,"  "The  Secret  Six,"  and  "A  Free  Soul." 
And  now  for  the  grand  surprise.  He  will  be 
seen  opposite  the  gorgeous  Garbo  in  "The  Rise 
and  Fall  of  Susan  Lenox." 

Kitty  of  Oshkosh:  Rin-Tin-Tin  most  cer- 
tainly is  going  to  continue  with  his  movie 
career.  He  is  starting  a  serial  picture  titled 
"The  Lightning  Warrior."  When  Rinty  was 
in  New  York  in  the  early  Spring,  he  made  his 
radio  debut.  Just  another  aspirant  to  Rudy 
Vallee's  title  "Sweetheart  of  the  Air." 

Mrs.  E.  La  wall,  Allentown,  Penna.: 
Charles  (ex-Buddy)  Rogers  is  reaily  too  busy 
making  pictures  and  personal  appearances  to 
devote  much  time  to  any  one  young  lady. 
His  latest  picture  is  "The  Lawyer's  Secret." 

Helen  Dragush,  Trenton,  N.  J.:  Donald 
Dillaway  is  a  newcomer  to  the  screen.  He 
entered  pictures  in  1930  and  has  appeared  in 
"Min  and  Bill,"  "Cimarron,"  and  "Body  and 
Soul."  Don  was  born  in  New  York  City  in 
1908,  on  St.  Patrick's  Day,  to  be  exact.  He  is 
6  feet  tall,  weighs  150,  and  has  brown  hair  and 
brown  eyes.  Attended  the  University  of 
Buffalo.  Had  eight  years  of  stage  work  before 
going  cinematic. 

Theresa  Wellner,  Paterson,  N.  J. :  That 
tough  little  gangster,  pardon  me,  I  mean 
Edward  G.  Robinson,  appeared  in  five  pictures 
before  "Little  Caesar" — all  since  1928. 


Joyce  Austin,  Fredonia,  N.  Y.:  Helen 
Kane's  last  picture  was  "Heads  Up"  with 
Charles  (ex-Buddy)  Rogers.  She  is  boop-pa- 
dooping  again  on  the  stage. 

Betty  and  Gladys,  Phoenix,  Ariz.:  Betty 
wins  the  wooden  kimono.  Una  Merkel  was  the 
cute  girl  who  played  in  "Eyes  of  the  World." 
She's  a  native  of  Covington,  Kentucky,  stands 
5  feet,  5,  weighs  110,  and  is  just  23  years  old. 
Una  appeared  on  the  silent  screen  about  seven 
years  ago,  deserted  it  for  the  stage,  but  re- 
turned again  in  1930,  making  her  talkie  debut 
in  "Abraham  Lincoln."  Since  then  she  has 
appeared  in  "The  Bat  Whispers,"  "The  Com- 
mand Performance,"  "Don't  Bet  on  Women" 
and  "Fame." 

A.  N.  Bogart,  Ottawa,  Canada:  Now  that 
summer  is  here,  why  worry  whether  the  out- 
door swimming  pools  in  Hollywood  are  heated 
during  the  winter?  At  this  writing  there  is  no 
talk  of  re-issuing  the  late  Jeanne  Eagel's  talk- 
ing films. 

M.  C.  A.,  Wethersfleld,  Conn.:  John 
Darrow  is  not  a  newcomer  to  the  screen.  He 
entered  pictures  in  1926,  but  didn't  get  much 
of  a  break  until  the  talkies.  John  was  born  in 
New  York  City,  July  17,  1907.  He  is  5  feet, 
113^;  weighs  165,  and  has  brown  hair  and 
brown  eyes.  His  latest  pictures  are  "Fame," 
and  "Everything's  Rosie." 

Thos.  Paone,  Archbald,  Penna.:  Those 
funny  Marx  Brothers,  known  professionally  as 
Groucho,  Harpo,  Chico  and  Zeppo,  were  really 
tagged  Julius,  Arthur,  Leonard  and  Herbert, 
respectively.  Their  next  talkie  will  be 
"Monkey  Business."  Can  you  imagine  what 
that  will  be  like? 

Mary  Lou,  Honolulu:  Your  suggestion 
came  too  late,  Mary  Lou.  Helen  Twelvetrees 
recently  changed  her  name  to  Mrs.  Frank 
Woody.  Your  idea  of  calling  her  Helen 
FOREST  wasn't  bad.  However,  12  TREES 
won't  make  a  FOREST  but  it  makes  it 
WOODY. 

Karen  Hansen,  Bridgeport,  Conn.:  That 
very  capable  actress,  Marjorie  Rambeau,  first 
saw  light  in  San  Francisco,  Calif.,  in  1889.  She 
made  her  first  stage  appearance  as  a  child  in 
1901.  Entered  pictures  in  1917,  devoting 
part  of  her  time  to  the  screen  and  the  rest  of  it 
to  the  stage.  Made  her  talkie  debut  in  1930  in 
"Her  Man."  After  that  came  "Min  and  Bill," 
"Inspiration,"  "The  Easiest  Way,"  and 
several  others.  Marjorie  has  a  five-year  con- 
tract with  M-G-M,  so  we  will  see  many  more 
pictures  of  her  in  the  future. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


95 


LocJiozTo .  and  fovefirifi/T' la  agarcba 


IS    YOUR    SKIN    AS    LOVEiY    AS     MY    MANNEQUIN'S? 

Onlii  a  fieallnu  J>kin  can  Jtaii  uoiinti 


THE  forehead  —  To  guard  against  lines 
and  wrinkles  here  apply  Milkweed  Cream, 
stroking  with  fingertips,  outward  from  the 
center  of  brow. 

the  eyes  —  To  avoid  aging  crows'  feet, 
smooth  Ingram's  about  the  eyes,  stroke  with 
a  feather  touch  outward  over  brow  and  in- 
ward under  lower  lids. 

the  mouth  —  Drooping  lines  are  easily  de- 
feated by  placing  thumbs  under  the  chin  and 
stroking  with  index  fingers  upward  and  out- 
ward toward  the  ears. 


the  throat — To  keep  your  throat  from 
flabbiness,  cover  generously  with  Milkweed 
Cream,  and  from  the  hollow  at  the  base,  stroke 
upward  toward  the  chin. 

the  neck  and  chin — To  prevent  a  sag- 
ging chin,  stroke  with  fingertips  from  under 
the  chin  outward,  under  the  jawbone,  to- 
ward the  ears.  Then  pat  firmly  under  the 
chin  and  along  the  jaw  contours. 

the  shoulders  —  To  have  shoulders  that 
are  blemish-free  and  firmly  smooth,  massage 
with  palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion  with 
plenty  of  cream. 


by  Francos  Ingram 

THERE  I  found  her — in  Atlanta,  in 
the  loveliest  of  gardens  .  .  .  head 
bare,  hands  busy  among  her  flowers. 
And  we  talked  on  and  on  of  another 
day,  in  another  garden — in  Spain. 

"Do  you  know,  after  I  met  you  that 
April,  I  carried  Mi  Ik  weed  Cream  all  over 
the  world  with  me?  It  kept  my  skin  so 
perfectly  cleansed — even  in  the  dirtiest 
cities  and  the  dustiest  trains  of  those 
hot  countries  father  has  such  a  passion 
for.  And  when  I  came  home,  and  my 
husband  was  afraid  I'd  spoil  mv  com- 
plexion working  in  my  own  garden — 
I  just  smiled,  and  kept  right  on  using 
Milkweed  Cream  every  single  night . .." 

Her  skin  was  lovely.  As  soft  and  fresh 
and  delicately  tinted  as  her  own  Georgia 
peaches  and  cream,  with  not  a  single 
line  to  say  "She's  past  thirty!" 

It  isn't  only  my  friends  who  have  fol- 
lowed my  starred  way  to  new  skin  love- 
liness. Thousands  of  women  write  me 
about  what  it  has  done  for  them. 

Won't  you  try  it?  You  have  only  to 
keep  your  skin  immaculately  clean,  deep 
into  the  pores,  by  spreading  Milkweed 
Cream  generously  over  it,  each  night. 
Then — follow  the  instructions  below. 
Even  within  a  few  days  there'll  be  a 
dramatic  difference  in  your  skin! 

And  won't  you  listen  in  on  my  radio 
program,  "Through  the  looking-glass 
with  Frances  Ingram,"  Tuesday  morn- 
ings at  10:15  E.D.S.T.,  over  WJZ  and 
associated  N.B.C.  stations? 


MY      INTRODUCTORY      TUBE      AND      MY 
BEAUTY   BOOKLET   WILL    DELIGHT   YOU 

FRANCES  INGRAM,  Dept.  A-71 
108  Washington  Street,  New  York 

(Check  in  square  below) 
□  Please  send  me  your  introductory  Milkweed 
Cream  treatment  and  your  booklet,  "Why  Only  a 
Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young."  I  enclose  4  cents 
in  jumps  to  cover  cost  of  mailing. 
D  Please  send  me  your  booklet,  "Why  Only  a 
Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young,"  which  is  free. 

Name 

Addrtss — 


96 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


HOLD  FAST 

the  crta/onv  ojL  2/ 


THE  precious  creams  and  un 
guents  of  the  cosmetician's  art 
— priceless  aids  though  they  are — cannot 
hide  a  sallow  skin,  dull  eyes,  lack  of  verve 
and  sparkle  in  your  manner.  Charm,  attrac- 
tion for  others,  good  looks  themselves  are 
impossible  without  internal  cleanliness. 

You  can't  be  at  your  best  while  poisons 
in  the  system  cloud  your  skin,  weary  your 
body,  depress  your  spirits.  Don't  just  miss 
being  alert,  clear-eyed,  good-looking. 

Keep  clean  internally.  The  saline  way 
Sal  Hepatica  offers,  is  a  simple,  effective  one. 

Europeans  of  fashion  travel  hundreds  of 
miles  to  take  the  "saline  cure"  at  Continen- 
tal spas.  But  you  can  have  its  benefits  here 
at  home — through  Sal  Hepatica,  the  practi- 
cal American  equivalent  of  these  health 
springs.  It  frees  the  body  of  poisons,  re- 
storing the  brightness  to  your  eyes,  clearing 
your  skin,  warding  off  colds. 

Begin  this  saline  method  with  Sal  Hepatica 
today.  In  a  month  you'll  feel 
better,  look  younger,  regain 
your  natural  charm. 

Write  Bristol-Myers  Co., 
Dept.  G-71,  71  West  St., 
New  York  City,  for  a  free 
booklet, '  'To  Clarice  in  Quest 
of  Her  Youth." 

SAL   HEPATICA 


Girls'  Problems 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  18  ] 


Even  your  favorite  moving  picture  star 
chooses  her  play  clothes  with  an  eye  to  com- 
fort rather  than  dramatic  effect.  I  remember 
Vilma  Banky  once  telling  me  that  she  looked 
forward  all  year  to  an  annual  fishing  trip  with 
her  husband,  because  she  could  wear  trousers 
all  day! 

As  I  was  saying,  packing  suitable  clothes 
depends  so  much  upon  where  you  are  going  and 
what  you  will  be  doing.  If  you  vacation  in  the 
mountains,  you  will  want  to  take  along 
sweaters  and  woolen  things  that  you  would  not 
need  for  the  seashore  or  some  nearby  lake. 
And  if  you  should  go  out  West  to  a  ranch,  you 
won't  need  any  of  the  frilly  afternoon  and 
evening  things  that  you  would  take  to  a  resort. 
At  a  ranch  everyone  lives  in  riding  habits  or 
blue  jeans  from  breakfast  to  bedtime.  Don't 
burden  yourself  with  clothes,  but  take  along 
enough  to  feel  at  ease. 

Did  you  ever  stop  to  think  that  half  the  joy 
of  a  holiday  is  getting  into  the  spirit  of  it?  You 
can  carry  along  the  smartest  wardrobe  in  the 
world,  look  your  prettiest  every  moment,  but 
unless  you  have  that  gay  enthusiasm,  you  are 
certain  to  lose  out  on  the  fun  of  it. 

I  saw  that  happen  to  a  very  attractive  young 
girl  last  summer.  She  went  to  a  beautiful 
place  in  the  mountains,  stayed  at  an  expensive 
inn — and  then  proceeded  to  fret  the  days  away 
because  there  did  not  happen  to  be  as  many 
young  people  there  as  she  had  expected. 
Glorious  scenery  and  the  delightful  surround- 
ings about  her  were  simply  wasted.  Of  course, 
she  returned  from  the  trip  feeling  that  she  had 
been  cheated.  Don't  let  that  happen  to  you — 
have  a  really  "beautiful"  time! 

Tootsie  : 

Your  question  about  personality  interested 
me  very  much.  Every  day  I  receive  letters 
from  girls  who  seem  to  think  that  personal 
beauty  is  more  important  than  any  other 
attribute.  Did  you  know  that  the  great 
authorities  on  beauty  list  personality  first,  and 
perfection  of  figure  and  face,  second?  Many  of 
the  world's  most  famous  women  have  not  been 
beautiful,  even  though  they  have  had  a  reputa- 
tion for  great  personal  attractiveness.  It  was 
the  charm,  the  individuality  that  came  from 
within  them  that  made  them  seem  so. 

To  acquire  personality  you  must  be  natural, 
first  ofjall.  A  pose  of  any  sort  is  too  difficult  to 
keep,  and  does  not  ring  true.  Be  interesting, 
but  never  force  yourself  on  anyone — a  certain 
amount  of  reserve  is  always  desirable. 

Enthusiasm  is  essential  to  personality,  I 
think.  I  am  appalled  by  young  girls  who  think 
it  is  amusing  to  appear  bored  and  sophisticated. 
The  fresh  charm  of  their  youth  is  so  wasted. 
Poise,  good  manners,  a  smart  appearance  and 
health  are  all  parts  of  personality. 

Exposure  to  the  sun  often  streaks  hair.  If  it 
is  not  very  apparent,  I  would  leave  it  alone. 
Try  massaging  the  scalp.  Some  of  the  roots 
may  not  be  getting  the  proper  amount  of 
stimulation.  Send  me  a  stamped,  self -addressed 
envelope  and  ask  for  my  complexion  leaflet. 

Carol  B.: 

I  don't  think  you  have  a  real  problem  at  all 
in  your  coloring.  It  would  seem  that  you  are 
far  more  fortunate  than  most  girls  who  have  a 
decided  coloring  because  you  can  wear  a 
variety  of  color  combinations  which  will 
cleverly  bring  out  either  the  green  or  the  grey 
tones  in  your  eyes.  Your  long,  dark  lashes  help 
in  this  respect;  they  give  a  definite  emphasis  to 
the  eyes. 

Use  a  warm  shade  of  rouge,  one  that  has  a 
rose  tint.  Stress  the  lips  carefully  with  a  lip- 
stick in  a  medium  shade.  Then  choose  such 
shades  as:  green  in  both  medium  and  bright 
tones,  warm  browns  accented  with  yellow, 
green  or  white,  a  tomato  red,  rose  and  black 


with  a  color  or  white.  In  the  evening  you 
could  wear  green,  clear  red  and  turquoise  blue. 
Black  is  always  correct.  However,  when  you 
wear  it,  I  would  suggest  either  a  brighter  make- 
up or  a  color  accent  in  your  accessories. 

I  like  your  complete  black  and  white  color 
scheme  for  the  suit;  it  is  very  smart  this  year. 
Why  don't  you  vary  the  material  of  your 
blouse  rather  than  the  color? 

You  should  weigh  about  134  pounds  for  your 
height  and  age. 

Lys: 

Hair  that  is  very  straight  and  unruly  is 
rather  a  problem,  I  know.  Have  you  tried 
having  a  permanent?  It  is  a  great  convenience 
for  summer  and  does  wonders  with  difficult 
hair.  A  good  hairdresser  will  quickly  tell  you 
how  your  hair  will  respond  to  a  wave. 

You  do  not  state  what  color  your  eyes  are  so 
it  is  difficult  to  advise  you  exactly  as  to  your 
colors.  However,  if  you  are  a  true  brunette,  I 
would  suggest  the  following:  green,  yellow, 
clear  shades  of  red  a  soft  rose,  brown,  blue, 
white  alone  or  with  an  accent  of  color,  and 
black  with  touches  of  white. 

You  are  slightly  overweight;  you  should 
weigh  about  125  pounds. 

Celeste: 

Jeanne  Morgan  is  22  years  old,  but  I  am 
sorry  that  I  can  not  give  you  her  height.  Her 
sister,  Marian  Marsh,  is  17  years  old  and  is 
5  feet,  2  inches  tall. 

Since  the  longer  bob  with  softly  curled  ends 
is  so  popular  now,  I  would  suggest  it  for  you. 
Parting  your  hair  in  the  middle  will  make  your 
face  appear  slimmer,  I  think  I  would  prefer  it 
to  the  type  of  bob  which  you  mentioned.  You 
have  to  be  a  decided  type  to  wear  that  style. 

Light  tan  powder,  a  bright  red  rouge  and  an 
orange-red  lipstick  would  be  becoming  make- 
up. Of  course,  in  making  up  for  the  stage,  your 
colors  wiD  be  emphasizedrnore  strongly  than 
for  ordinary  occasions. 

The  colors  that  should  be  most  becoming  to 
you  are  shades  of  green,  most  shades  of  blue, 
deep  orchid,  warm  browns,  burnt-orange, 
tomato  red,  pink  and  rose,  black  with  a  color 
or  white,  and  all  white. 

Your  little  sisters  are  all  too  young  to  bother 
about  either  height  or  weight.  In  the  next  few 
years  they  will  develop  so  rapidly  that  any  lack 
of  size  or  weight  will  be  naturally  adjusted. 

Brenda: 

I  think  a  great  many  girls  today  are  troubled 
by  the  fact  that  their  legs  are  slightly  larger 
than  they  wish.  If  you  are  slender,  however,  I 
do  not  think  that  it  is  any  handicap  at  all. 
Especially  when  longer  skirts  make  it  so  easy  to 
conceal  much  of  the  extra  weight  of  the  legs. 
You  can  improve  the  line  of  the  legs  by  exer- 
cise.   I  would  suggest  the  following! 

First,  stand  straight,  head  up,  chest  high, 
shoulders  back,  abdomen  fiat,  feet  together  and 
hands  on  hips.  With  your  right  leg  supporting 
the  weight  of  the  body,  swing  the  left  leg  for- 
ward and  backward  like  the  pendulum  of  a 
clock,  going  as  far  as  possible,  holding  the  left 
leg  so  lightly  that  it  can  swing  easily.  Do  this 
about  a  dozen  times  and  repeat  with  the  other 
foot,  weight  on  the  left  leg,  swinging  the  right. 

Amy: 

If  you  will  send  me  a  stamped,  self-addressed 
envelope  and  ask  for  my  complexion  leaflet, 
you  will  find  the  treatment  which  will  help  you. 

I  cannot  advise  you  in  regard  to  the  little  red 
veins  beneath  your  skin,  as  that  is  a  matter 
about  which  you  will  have  to  consult  your 
physician.  I  do  not  believe  that  arching  the 
eyebrows  has  any  effect  upon  the  eyesight. 
The  natural  line  of  the  brows  is  much  more 
desirable,  however. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


97 


Now , , , 

I  can  stand  the  Public 

Gaze"  t  ,  Can  You? 


At  a  swimming  party,  you  slip  in  the  manufacture  of  depilatories 

your  beach-coat  from  your  shoul-  ...  it  is  made  of  the  finest  mgre- 

ders  —  and  suddenly  your  bath-  dients  money  can  buy 

ing-suit  seems  all  too  brief. . .  At  ...  faintly  fragrant,  it  is  as  easy 

a  dance,  you  raise  your  arms  to  to  use  as  cold  cream 


pin  back  a  stray  lock,  forgetting 
that  your  dress  is  sleeveless. 
These  moments,  in  fact  any  mo- 
ment, in  public,  need  not  be  em- 
barrassing if  your  skin  is  free  of 
disfiguring  hair. 


...  it  removes  hair  in  3  minutes 
or  less 

...  it  leaves  your  skin  velvety- 
smooth. 

Thousands  upon  thousands  of 
dainty  women   have   turned   to 


And  it's  really  easy  to  keep  Del-a-tone  to  solve  their  supcr- 

your  underarms,  *  forearms  and  fluous  hair  problem.  Asoneyoung 

legs  smooth  and  hair-free  if  you  woman  writes  me:   "Del-a-tone 

use  Del-a-tone  Cream.  leaves  my  skin  so  much  smoother 

Like  most  fastidious  moderns,  and  cleaner  than  after  removing 

you  are  probably  particular  about  hair  any  other  way." 

what  you  put  on  your  skin.  Con-  Let  this  creamy-white  dcpila- 

sequently,  Del-a-tone  will  appeal  tory  keep  you  daintily  feminine 

to  you  because:  . . .  Let  Dcl-a-tonc  give  your  skin 

.. .  ltisnotonlyaw/nVccream,  but  that  alluring  smoothness  that 

it  is  made  according  to  our  cxclu-  adds  so  much  to  a  woman' s  charm, 

sive  formula  —  the  result     /h^/,  „   ,                   <<>  /      / /? 


of  over  23  years  experience 


Alluringly  lovely  .  .  .  charming  .  .  . 
totally  at  ease  because  Del-a-tone  has 
left  her  skin  satiny  smooth  and  free  of  all 
traces  of  disfiguring  hair. 


NOW    COMES 
IN    TWO    SIZES 

50*      $1^2 

NEW LARGER 

Del-a-tone  Cream,  50c  and  $1  (also  Del- 
a-tone  Powder,  $1  size  only)  at  drug  and 
department  stores.   Or  sent  prepaid  in 
U.  S.  in  plain  wrapper.  Money  back  if 
desired.  (Trial  tube,  10c  —  usecouponat 
right. )  Write  Miss  Mildred  Hadley ,  The  4§^ 
DelatoneCo.,  (Est.  1908)  The Delatone 
Bldg.,  Dept.    87,    233  East  Ontario-*— 
Street,  Chicago,  Illinois. 


Here's  the  triple-proof  of 
DEL-A-TONE  s  superiority 


j     Your  eyes  will  tell  you — because  you  can  su 
how  creamy-white  it  is. 

O    Your  nou  will  tell  you,  for  Del-a-tone  hasn't 
any  of  that  over-powering,  offensive  odor 
of  ordinary  depilatories. 

*?    Your  skin  will  tell  you    (after  you 
have  rinsed  off  the  Del-a-tone  and 


along  with  it.  the  ugly  fu 
it  will  have  an  alluring, 
velvet  v-smoothness. 


z)  for 


P.  S. — I  almost  forgot  to  tell  you  that 
Del-a-tone  is  sold  on  a  Money-Back 
Guarantee.  We  have  seen  Del-a-tonc 
win  wide  popularity  on  real  merit  alone, 
that's  why  we  offer  to  refund  your 
money  cheerfully  if  you  are  not  satisfied 
with  this  dainty  depilatory.  By  the 
way,  I  hope  you've  noticed  that  no 
extravagant  claims 
have  ever  been  made  *~ 

regarding  Del-a-tone.       /^J* 


*RcmotYi  1    of   uticrarm 

hair  lessens  perspiration  j^jff 

odor,  you  know.  /*' 


^DEL-A-TONE 


The  White  Cream  Hair-remover 


J    Miss  Mildred  Hadley,  The  Delatone  Company 

j    Dept.    87.    Delatone  Bldg  . ,  233  E.  Ontario  Street,  Chicago,  III. 

Please  send  me  in  plain  wrapper  prepaid,  generous  trial  tube  of  Del*»-tone  Cream,  for  which  I  enclose  10c. 

|    Name 

|   Street  

I   City 


98 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


MORE 
SPRING 

for  quick, 
easy  cleaning! 


Better  Bristles — trimmed  and  tufted  into 
the  most  efficient  form  for  cleansing 
your  teeth  and  massaging  your  gums. 
Tek's  bristles  keep  their  resiliency  even 
after  months  of  brushing  and  daily 
drenching  in  water.  Tek  is  a  pleasant, 
effective  change  from  old  style  brushes. 
Tek's  double  value  is  its  Better  Shape 
and  Better  Bristles,  at  no  extra  cost. 
Sterilized  and  Cellophane-sealed,  at 
your  dealer's,  Tek  50c;  Tek  Jr.,  35c. 
A  guaranteed  product  of  the  world's 
largest  makers  of  dental   accessories. 


the  modern 
TOOTH  9RUSH 


I)    NEW    BRUNSWICK     (J      NEW    JERSEY 


Short  Subjects 

of  the  Month 


Bobby  Jones  takes  as  naturally  to  the  camera  as  he  does 

to  a  National  Open  Tournament.     And  he's  one  Holly- 

woodite  who  doesn't  have  to  be  told  how  to  do  his  stuff 

by  a  director 


HOW  I  PL  A  Y  GOLF: 
THE  PUTTER 

Warners-Vitaphone 
Bobby  Jones'  first  short.  A  million  dollars' 
worth  of  instruction  for  golf  nuts.  And  almost 
as  much  fun  and  entertainment  for  those  who 
aren't.  Joe  E.  Brown  and  Frank  Craven  are 
hilarious.  There's  also  a  flash  of  Dick  Barthel- 
mess.    The  best  sport  short  yet. 

THE  COUNTY  SEAT 
Radio  Pictures 
Here's  your  old  pal,  Chic  Sale,  in  a  top-notch 
short.  And  don't  be  alarmed,  for  it  won't 
shock  anybody.  Chic  is  the  small  town  loafer 
who  wins  against  all  odds.  Beautifully 
directed.    Fine  entertainment. 

A  CLEAN-UP  ON  THE  CURB 
Radio  Pictures 
W-w-w-well  Roscoe  Ates  fixes  everything  up 
just  d-d-d-dandy  and  it's  ali  pretty  f-f-f-funny. 
Your  favorite  stuttering  comedian  plays  the 
part  of  a  janitor  who  tries  to  commit  suicide 
but  saves  a  lady  in  a  pent  house  instead. 
Vivian  Oakland  is  the  lady.    Right  smart  fun. 

DOWN  TO  DAMASCUS 
Fox  Movietone 

A  celluloid  journey  to  this  ancient  city, 
which  shows  the  natives  in  their  colorful  daily 
surroundings,  bargaining  in  the  bazaars  and 
working  at  their  ancient  trades.  Also  a  camel 
journey  out  into  the  desert  to  visit  a  real  sheik, 
who  looks  nothing  like  Valentino  or  Novarro. 
Fine  travelogue. 

BEAUTY  SECRETS  FROM 
HOLLYWOOD 

Paramount 

Here  you  are,  girls,  a  detailed  account  of  the 
proper  way  to  make  up  for  the  street.  You'll 
find  this  very  instructive  and  the  boy  friend 
won't  mind  looking  at  the  gals  who  illustrate. 
The  Technicolor  is  lovely.  Geraldine  DeVorak, 
Garbo's  ex-double,  is  in  the  cast  of  four. 


THE  STRIFE  OF  THE  PARTY 
Radio  Pictures 

Mark  up  another  clever  picture  directed  by 
Mark  Sandrich.  This  one  is  a  domestic 
comedy,  featuring  that  splendid  actor,  Ned 
Sparks,  a  husband  who  is  kept  on  the  jump  to 
meet  the  expenses  of  his  wife  and  her  sister. 
Addie  McPhail  and  Roberta  Gale  are  the 
women.    Plenty  of  laughs. 

HOW  I  PL  A  Y  GOLF: 
CHIP  SHOTS 

Warners-  Vitaphone 

Bobby  Jones'  second,  and  a  worthy  successor 
to  the  first.  Not  as  many  laughs,  but  Jones' 
wizardry  with  his  irons  is  even  more  amazing 
and  instructive.  Charles  Winninger,  John 
Halliday,  Bill  Davidson  and  Robert  Elliott 
help  out. 

MOTHER  GOOSE  MELODIES 

Columbia 

A  Walt  Disney  Silly  Symphony  that  is  the 
perfect  short  for  the  kiddies  and  grown-ups, 
too.  With  King  Cole  as  the  central  character, 
most  of  the  other  Mother  Goose  characters 
come  to  life  to  a  fetching  variety  of  tunes. 
Expertly  and  cleverly  done. 

BETTY  CO-ED 

Paramount 

A  good  melodious  short,  with  plenty  of  col- 
lege atmosphere.  Rudy  Vallee  and  his  Con- 
necticut Yankees  furnish  the  musical  accom- 
paniment. Rudy  also  delivers  a  solo  with  the 
dancing  ball  keeping  time  for  the  audience  to 
join  in.   The  young  folks  will  like  this  one. 

HERE'S  LUCK 

Universal 

Slim  Summerville  again,  in  a  rollicking 
soldier  comedy  with  gruff  Tom  Kennedy  as  the 
top  sergeant.  Laid  in  Germany,  you  will  have 
a  long  laugh  when  Slim  tinkers  with  a  huge 
shell,  which  goes  off  and  blows  up  the  brewery, 
flooding  the  A.  E.  F.  with  beer. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


99 


n  discreet 

Through  one  indiscretion -a  woman  with 
a  future  became  a  woman  with  a  past 


A  new  year A  new  life 


So  Jerry  Trent  (Gloria  Swanson) 

New  Year's  resolution Her  past  was  a1 

Her  romance  with  Jim  Woodward  jm 

On  fresh,  clean  pages  she'g^ 

the  story, 

new 


mm 


v.-   ■ 


and 


i 


greater 
lore . . .  But  th<? 
winds  of  fate  blew, 
Love  demanded  a  saerifiee 


■ 


Joseph  M.  Schenck  presents 

A  De  SYLVA,  BROWN  and  HENDERSON 

Production 

GLORIA  SWANSON 

in 

"INDISCREET" 

with 

Ben  Lyon  Arthur  Lake 

Directed  by  Leo  McCarey 

NITED  ARTISTS  PICTURE 

"UNITED     FOR     YOUR     ENTERTAINMENT" 


loo 


At  9  feet— 

HOW  CHARMING! 

At  6  feet— 

IRRESISTIBLE! 

At  3  feet— 
HOW  DISAPPOINTING  ! 

Outside  the  three-foot  circle,  one  is  reason- 
ably safe  from  giving  offense.  Inside  it,  even 
a  trace  of  armpit  odor  spoils  one's  charm. 

To  make  sure  you  pass  the  3 -Foot  Circle 
Test — use  Nonspi. 

This  deodorant  is  entirely  harmless.  Yet  it 
is  so  thorough  in  preventing  underarm 
perspiration  that  you  need  to  apply  it  only 
twice  a  week.  An  ingredient  used  only  in 
Nonspi  makes  this  possible. 

Nonspi  is  a  deodorant  which  has  been 
pronounced  both  safe  and  effective  by  com- 
petent medical  authority.  Use  it,  and  worry 
no  more  about  armpit  odor  or  costly  frocks 
ruined  by  per- 
Wy~.m   spirationstains! 

Send    lOt    with 

t  coupon   below   for 

<&3%A    generous  sample. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

Addresses  of  the  Stars 


NONSPI 

THE    SAFE 
DEODORANT 

prevents    perspiration 


TRIAL  OFFER— Send  10*  for  Physician's  Sam- 
ple—  enough  for  3  weeks  —  Nonspi  Company,  113 
West  18th  St.,  Department  7-E,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Name . 

Street 

City 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Richard  Arlen 
Jean  Arthur 
George  Bancroft 
Carman  Barnes 
Clara  Bow 
Mary  Brian 
Martin  Burton 
Ruth  Chatterton 
June  Collyer 
Juliette  Compton 
Jackie  Coogan 
Robert  Coogan 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlene  Dietrich 
Leon  Errol 
Stuart  Erwin 
Stanley  Fields 


Kay  Francis 
Skeets  Gallagher 
Mitzi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Marcia  Manners 
Cyril  Maude 
Rosita  Moreno 
Jack  Oakie 
Guy  Oliver 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
Charles  Rogers 
Lilyan  Tashman 
Regis  Toomey 
Fay  Wray 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Luana  Alcaniz 
Michael  Bartlett 
Warner  Baxter 
Joan  Bennett 
Humphrey  Bogart 
El  Brendel 
Lucile  Browne 
Robert  Burns 
Joan  Castle 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Joyce  Compton 
Roxanne  Curtis 
Donald  Dillaway 
Fifi  Dorsay 
Charles  Farrell 
John  Garrick 
Janet  Gaynor 
C.  Henry  Gordon 
Louise  Huntington 
Warren  Hymer 
Keating  Sisters 
Richard  Keene 
Jane  Keith 
Nancy  Kelly 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
James  Kirkwood 
Elissa  Landi 


Dixie  Lee 
Marion  Lessing 
George  Lewis 
Myrna  Loy 
Edmund  Lowe 
Claire  Luce 
Leslie  May 
Jeanette  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 
Frances  McCoy 
Victor  McLaglen 
Una  Merkel 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Lois  Moran 
J.  Harold  Murray 
George  O'  Brien 
Maureen  O'SuIlivan 
Gaylord  Pendleton 
Nat  Pendleton 
Rosalie  Rae 
Will  Rogers 
David  Rollins 
John  Swor 
Lee  Tracy 
Spencer  Tracy 
Ruth  Warren 
John  Wayne 
Marjorie  White 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


.State- 


Robert  Ames 
Amos  and  Andy 
Henry  Armetta 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Betty  Compson 
Ricardo  Cortez 
John  Darrow 
Claudia  Dell 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Eddie  Foy,  Jr. 
Noel  Francis 
Ralf  Harolde 
Hugh  Herbertl 


Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Sharon  Lynn 
Everett  Marshall 
Joel  McCrea 
Jack  Mul ha II 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Roberta  Robinson 
Lowell  Sherman 
Katya  Sorina 
Ned  Sparks 
Leni  Stengel 
Bert  Wheeler 
Robert  Woolsey 


Warner  Bros.  Studios,  5842  Sunset  Blvd. 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Noah  Beery 
Joan  Blondell 
Joe  E.  Brown 
Anthony  Bushell 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Bebe  Daniels 
Irene  Delroy 
Robert  Elliott 
Frank  Fay 


John  Halliday 
Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Allan  Lane 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
David  Manners 
Marian  Marsh 
Edward  Morgan 
William  Powell 
Barbara  Weeks 
Jack  Whiting 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ina  Claire 
Ronald  Colman 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 


Al  Jolson 
Evelyn  Laye 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St 


Richard  Cromwell 
Constance  Cummings 
Ralph  Graves 
Jack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Margaret  Livingston 


Bert  Lytell 
Dorothy  Revier 
Dorothy  Sebastian 
Miriam  Seegar 
Barbara  Stanwyck 


Culver  City,  Calif. 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


William  Bakewell 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Edwina  Booth 
John  Mack  Brown 
Lenore  Bushman 
Harry  Carey 
Joan  Crawford 
Jose  Crespo 
Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Douglass 
Marie  Dressier 
Cliff  Edwards 
Julia  Faye 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
William  Haines 
Neil  Hamilton 
Hedda  Hopper 
Lottice  Howell 
Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Arnold  Korff 
Andre  Luguet 


Ellen  McCarthy 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Robert  Montgomery 
Grace  Moore 
Polly  Moran 
Catherine  Moylan 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Edward  Nugent 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita  Page 
Lucille  Powers 
Marie  Prevost 
Marjorie  Rambeau 
Duncan  Renaldo 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Raquel  Torres 
Lester  Vail 


RKO-Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  and  Russell 
Gleason 


Ann  Harding 
Eddie  Quillan 
Helen  Twelvetrees 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 
Thelma  Todd 


Universal  City,  Calif. 

Universal  Studios 


Margaret  Adams 
Lew  Ayres 
John  Boles 
Hoot  Gibson 
Bela  Lugosi 


Charles  Murray 
George  Sidney 
Slim  Summerville 
Genevieve  Tobin 
John  Wray 


Burbank,  Calif. 

First  National  Studios 


Richard  Barthelmess 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Joe  Frisco 
Walter  Huston 
Fred  Kohler 
Dorothy  Mackaill 


Marilyn  Miller 
Ona  Munson 
Dorothy  Peterson 
James  Rennie 
Otis  Skinner 
Loretta  Young 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Tallulah  Bankhead 
Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Claudette  Colbert 
Norman  Foster 
Miriam  Hopkins 


Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Ginger  Rogers 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrett 
Ed  Wynn 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire,  1212  Gower  St. 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd,  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy.  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Pat  O'Malley,  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St, 
Ruth  Roland,  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor,  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray,  22  E.  60th  St.,  New  York 

William  S.  Hart,  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsy    Ruth   Miller,   808    Crescent   Drive,   Beverly 

Hills,  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


IOI 


THE  RADIO  TITAN,  INDOMITABLE  SYMBOL  OF 
SCREEN  LEADERSHIP,  UNFURLS  THE  GOLDEN 
BANNER  OF  A  GLORIOUS  NEW  SHOW  SEASON ! 


M-**"-^ 


Look  To  RKO- 
RADIO  For  Your 
Pictures  Next 
Year! . .  . Each  A 
Star-Strewn  Path 
to  Greater  Enter- 
tainment! 


WM 


RICHARD  OIX 


IRENE  DUNNE 


DOLORES  DEL  RIO 


LILY  DAMITA 


;;  ■-'■-'  * 


When  Colossal  "CIMARRON"  swept  triumphantly  to  the 
screen,  RADIO  PICTURES  set  a  new  standard  for  itself  and 
the  amusement  world!... A  standard  of  artistry  and  enter- 
tainment that  inspires  RADIO'S  1931-32  program. 

Thirty-six  superlative  productions  .  .  .  among  them  "THE 
BIRD  OF  PARADISE,"  Richard  Walton  Tully's  immortal  play 
with  Dolores  Del  Rio. 

"MARCHETA,"  Glamorous  romance  of  old  Spain  and 
"FRONTIER,"  companion  spectacle  to  "Cimarron"  with  its 
stars,  RICHARD  DIX  and  IRENE  DUNNE. 

Fanny  Hurst  gives  you  "SYMPHONY  OF  SIX  MILLION,"  in- 
triguing story  of  Hollywood;  and  Wesley  Ruggles,  great 
director,  brings  a  penetrating  drama  of  today,  "ARE  THESE 
OUR  CHILDREN?"  Other  attractions  of  road-show  calibre 
are  "MIRACLE  CITY"  by  Howard  Estabrook  and  Willard 
Mack's  "THE  DOVE"  with  Dolores  Del  Rio. 

Great  Pictures... Great  Stars. .  .Great  Entertainment,  the 
reward  for  those  who  follow  the  RADIO  TITAN  on  his  Trium- 
phant March  to  New  Conquests. 


nil 


pict  im 


•.\ 


102 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


"Ghic  ^ale—The 

Specialist 

tells  how 

Ca  now 
GITS  the 

Train  of  he ad J 

of  the  one 
he's  after 


THERE'S  a  great  moral  lurkin'  in 
the  life  of  Ed  Tyler  who  lives  in 
the  suburbs  of  a  big  city.  Fer  thirteen 
years  Ed  rode  the  train  to  work  every 
mornin'  an'  didn't  even  know  the  station 
agent's  name. 

The  other  passengers  would  sit  around 
the  station  laughin'  an'  jokin',  but  Ed 
wouldn't.  He  would  stand  there  with  his 
nose  so  high  in  the  air  that  a  sudden 
rain  would  have  drowned  him. 

Well  sir,  Ed  got  to  missin'  trains.  He 
would  come  dashin'  up  jest  as  the  train 
pulled  out.  Maybe  he  had  looked  at  a 
Sunday  or  a  Holiday  schedule  on  a  week 
day  or  maybe  he'd  waited  too  long. 

Havin'  the  good  of  the  railroad  at 
heart,  the  station  agent  took  Ed  aside  an' 
talked  to  him  an'  gave  him  some  little 
chocolate  tablets  from  a  blue  tin  box. 
Now  Ed  is  the  most  regular  passenger 
on  that  line.  He's  friendly,  he  calls  the 
station  agent  George,  he  ain't  missed  a 
train  fer  weeks  an'  sometimes  he  even 
gits  the  tiain  ahead  of  the  one  he's  after. 


WOULDN'T  you  rather  take  "those  little 
chocolate  tablets"  than   a  laxative   that 
causes  you  to  "make  faces"? 

Ex-Lax  is  simply  delicious  chocolate  com- 
bined with  the  scientific  ingredient,  phenol- 
phthalein,  of  the  right  quality,  in  the  right 
proportion,  in  the  right  dose. 

Ex-Lax  is  equally  effective  for  young  or  old. 
It's  safe,  gentle,  non-habit  forming.  It  checks  on 
everything  your  doctor  looks  for  in  a  laxative. 
Your  druggist  has  it  in  10c,  25c  and  50c  boxes. 

Keep  "regular"  with 

LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 

Complete  set  of 

K REE  "CHIC"  SALE  SAYINGS 

^"^  ^~*  and  sample  of  Ex-Lax 

Name 

Street  and  Number. 

City State 

Mail  this  coupon  to  The  Ex-Lax  Co..  Dcpt.  PH-71 
P.  O.    Box  170,  Times  Plaza  Sta..  Brooklyn.   N.  Y. 


creen 


M 


emories 


rrom    Photoplay 


15  Years  Ago 


Mabel 
Norm  and 


STILL  flushed  by  the 
triumphs  of  "The  Birth 
of  a  Nation,"  David  Wark 
Griffith  was  the  directorial 
giant  of  pictures.  The 
second  chapter  of  his  life 
story  was  printed,  telling 
of  his  early  struggles  and 
disappointments. 

Another  chapter  could 
be  written  today,  with 
the  same  ironic  tang  to  it. 

Didn't  the  movies  feel  grown  up,  though? 
Already  they  were  looking  back  and  we  pub- 
lished a  "still"  of  the  first  picture  starring  Alice 
Joyce — an  old  Kalem  Western — under  the 
caption: — "A  Relic  of  the  Screen's  Medieval 
Age." 

Fannie  Ward  was  interviewed  and  was  coy — 
even  then. 

As  it  was  the  good  old  summer  time,  several 
pages  of  bathing  suit  pictures  were  run,  show- 
ing Louise  Fazenda,  Anita  Stewart,  Juanita 
Hansen,  Ruth  I5  eland  and  Norma  Talmadge. 
Three    pages    of    pictures    showed    Mabel 


Normand  at  home  in  Los  Angeles.  Poor 
Mabel!  Her  beautiful,  sweet  youthfulness 
shone  from  every  pose. 

"Old  Doc  Cheerful"  headed  an  interview 
with  Douglas  Fairbanks.  The  interviewer  knew 
not  how  well  he  wrote  when  he  said:  "No 
recruit  from  the  speaking  stage  has  made  good 
in  like  proportion  to  Mr.  Fairbanks." 

There  were  no  stars'  pictures  in  the  gallery. 
Instead  there  were  eleven  beautiful  winners  of 
the  Phototlay  "Beauty  and  Brains"  Contest 
to  discover  new  screen  talent.  The  first  of  all 
beauty  contests,  and  Photoplay's  last. 

Pictures  reviewed  included :"  Susan  Rocks  the 
Boat,"  with  Owen  Moore  and  Dorothy  Gish; 
"The  Moment  Before,"  with  Pauline  Fred- 
erick; "Maria  Rose,"  with  Geraldine  Farrar 
and  Wallace  Reid,  and  "The  Floorwalker," 
with  Charlie  Chaplin. 

News  items:  Mary  Miles  Minter,  wonder 
child  of  Metro,  has  signed  a  five-year  contract 
with  the  American  Film  Co.  .  .  .  Francis  X. 
Bushman  has  installed  his  family  in  his  new 
$65,000  Maryland  estate.  .  .  .  Theda  Bara 
announces  her  memoirs  will  soon  be  published. 


io  Years  Ago 


D! 


Emil 
Jannings 


R.  CALIGARI'S 
CABINET"  burst 
like  a  fantastic  kaleido- 
scope before  the  eyes  of  a 
movie  public  raised  on  the 
plain  but  substantial  fare 
of  Bill  Hart,  Wally  Reid, 
Douglas  Fairbanks  and  D. 
W.  Griffith. 

It  was  a  crazy  bit  of 
unconventionality,  which 
excited  Mr.  Burns  Mantle,  writing  in  the  July, 
1921.  Shadow  Stage,  to  remark:  "We  left 
the  theater  believing  strongly  that  the  author 
of  the  picture  was  a  little  mad,  the  director  a 
little  madder,  the  actors  engaged,  quite  mad 
indeed." 

Another  German  picture,  "Deception,"  also 
made  a  profound  impression.  It  evoked  en- 
thusiastic praise  of  the  German  actor  who 
played  Henry  VIII.  His  name  was — and  is — 
Emil  Jannings.  The  German  director  likewise 
came  in  for  wide  notice.  Ernst  Lubitsch  was 
his  name. 

An  article  headed,  "The  Messrs.  Chaney," 


told  of  the  many  characters  Lon  had  created. 

Marie  Prevost  was  a  comedy  queen,  turning, 
so  Photoplay  said,  "to  greater  things,"  and 
following  in  the  footsteps  of  Betty  Compson, 
Gloria  Swanson  and  Mary  Thurman. 

Bebe  Daniels,  caught  doing  563^2  miles  per 
hour,  was  given  ten  days  in  jail  by  a  Santa  Ana 
judge.  She  wrote  her  jail-house  experiences  for 
Photoplay. 

The  gallery  this  month  included  pictures  of 
Claire  Windsor,  May  Collins,  Blanche  Sweet, 
Florence  Vidor,  Lionel  Barrymore. 

Pictures  reviewed  included:  "Bob  Hampton 
of  Placer,"  with  James  Kirkwood,  Wesley 
Barry  and  Marjorie  Daw;  "Dream  Street,"  D. 
W.  Griffith's  latest;  "Peck's  Bad  Boy,"  with 
Jackie  Coogan;  "The  Whistle,"  starring 
William  S.  Hart. 

Cal  York  items:  Tom  Moore  and  his  new 
bride,  Renee  Adoree,  were  seen  dining  at  the 
Maison  Marcelle  in  Los  Angeles,  holding 
hands  under  the  table  .  .  .  Because  of 
threatened  censorship,  D.  W.  Griffith  has 
given  up  his  intended  production  of  "Faust," 
with  John  Barrymore  in  the  principal  role. 


5  Years  Ago 


Hi 
c 


John 
Gilbert 


ERE  he  is,"  read  the 
caption  beneath  a 
glamorous  figure  in  swash- 
buckler's clothes,  "the 
answer  to  the  maiden's 
prayer — the  reason  girls 
leave  home  for  Holly- 
wood." 

And  who  was  it?  John 
Gilbert,  of  course — dash- 
ing Jack — just  then  revel- 
ing in  the  romantic  role  of  "Bardelys  the 
Magnificent."  The  movies  were  still  dumb — 
or  rather,  still  silent — and  a  falsetto  hero  or  a 
foreign  accent  had  not  yet  become  a  studio 
bugaboo. 

Indeed,  "The  Foreign  Legion  in  Hollywood," 
was  an  article  that  said  "foreigners  are  going 
through  the  studios  with  the  speed  of  mumps 
through  a  day  nursery." 

One  of  the  foreigners  was  a  Swedish  actress 
named  Greta  Garbo,  and  Photoplay  said: 
"She  seems  destined  for  the  lights." 

Jackie  Coogan  was  eleven  years  old  and  had 
to  get  a  haircut.     They  made  a  picture  of  it, 


"Johnny  Get  Your  Hair  Cut,"  and  our 
caption  read:  "Good-bye, little  boy,  good-bye." 

Ronald  Colman  was  an  up  and  coming  young 
man,  biting  the  desert  dust  in  "Beau  Geste." 

New  babies  of  the  month  were  Monte  Blue's 
daughter,  Charlie  and  Lita  Grey  Chaplin's 
son,  and  Agnes  Ayres'  daughter. 

In  the  gallery  were  pictures  of  Dolores 
Costello,  Irene  Rich,  Jack  Mulhall,  Dorothy 
Hughes  and   Greta   Garbo. 

Pictures  reviewed  included  "A  Social  Celeb- 
rity," with  Adolphe  Menjou  and  Louise 
Brooks;  "Brown  of  Harvard,"  with  Bill 
Haines  and  Jack  Pickford;  "Aloma  of  the 
South  Seas,"  with  Gilda  Gray;  "We*t  Paint," 
with  Raymond  Griffith;  "Beverly  of  Grau- 
stark,"  with  Antonio  Moreno  and  Marion 
Davies;  and  "Mile.  Modiste,"  with  Corinne 
Griffith. 

Cal  York  items:  Lila  Lee  has  come  back  to 
Hollywood  after  a  couple  of  years  in  New 
York,  with  her  baby,  James  Kirkwood,  Jr.  .  .  . 
Lon  Chaney  became  a  father-in-law  when  his 
son,  Creighton  Hull  Chaney,  married  Dorothy 
Musa  Hinckley. 


Thotoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


I  o 


Cal  York's  Monthly 

Broadcast  from 

Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  92  ] 

baby — whom  he's  never  seen — in  Paris,  but 
now"  that  he  has  the  contract  his  family  are  to 
return  to  him,  even  if  there  are  some  rumors  of 
a  separation. 

AND  then  there's  the  very  smart 
actor  (who  says  those  guys  aren't 
wise?)  who  wrote  additional  lines  for 
himself  in  a  film,  sold  them  to  the 
studio  and  got  two  weeks'  additional 
work  thereby. 

AFTER  escaping  all  the  perils  of  travel  and 
the  Orient  on  his  recent  trip,  George 
O'Brien  returned  home,  went  for  a  swim  off 
Malibu  Beach,  and  got  bitten  on  the  knee  by  a 
seal! 

THE  other  day  Evelyn  Brent  was 
in  a  shop  trying  on  one  of  the 
smart  tri-corne  hats  when  one  of 
those  vera-vera  California  British 
actresses  breezed  in  and  said,  "Ah, 
how  charming,  a  Louis  Quinze,  isn't 
it?" 

"No,"    said    Evelyn    gently    but 
firmly,  "just  a  grand  hat!" 

AMAZING  how  the  code  of  screen  morals 
can  be  successfully  circumvented.  Con- 
sider, for  instance,  "The  Front  Page." 

There's  a  certain  phrase  which  was  very  pop- 
ular in  the  army.  It's  very  popular  even  now 
among  dub  golf  players.  It's  a  four-syllabled 
compound. 

It  formed  an  important  if  shocking  line  at 
the  finish  of  the  stage  version  of  "The  Front 
Page." 

The  Hays  office  would  never  allow  it  to  be 
spoken  from  the  screen,  although  it  was  spoken 
in  the  stage  version. 

So  what  did  Director  Milestone  and  Actor 
Adolphe  Menjou  do? 

They  did  it  like  this:  Menjou  speaks — 

"The " 

Then  he  lets  his  elbow  hit  a  telephone  on  the 
desk.    It  goes  crash.    And  he  finishes  speaking: 

" —  stole  my  watch!'' 

Darned  clever,  these  directors! 

NEWS  item  quotes  Rudy  Vallee  as 
saying  he's  anxious  for  a  chance 
to  do  a  screen  come-back,  but  wants 
only  a  "two-fisted,  he-man  role." 

McLaglen,  Bancroft,  Beery  et  al 
don't  know  whether  to  laugh  or  get 
mad. 

IN  the  Hollywood  newspaper  advertisements 
of  the  run  of  "  Seed,"  there  appeared  this  line: 
"JOHN   BOLES   DOES   NOT  SING   IN 
THIS  PICTURE." 

And  that,  opines  John  Boles,  shows  what 
Hollywood  thinks  about  musicals. 

STEPIN  FETCHIT'S  new  baby  has 
been  named  Jemajo,  after  Jesus, 
Mary  and  Joseph.  But  Hollywood 
doesn't  know  yet  whether  it's  a  boy 
or  a  girl. 

ONE  of  the  reasons  Mae  Marsh  stayed  away 
from  the  screen  so  long  was  because  she 
didn't  want  to  be  away  from  her  children. 

She's  making  a  picture  come-back  now.  And 
throughout  the  very  first  week  of  her  work  at 
the  Fox  studio,  she  didn't  see  her  two  children 
once!  She  left  her  home  in  Flintridge,  some 
fifteen  miles  from  Hollywood,  at  five  each 
morning  before  the  youngsters  were  up.  And 
she  never  got  home,  due  to  high-pressure  shoot- 


GLAZO.. 

J  does  your  fingers 

a    stunning    favor 


It  began  with  the  vety  smart  world — 
this  new  and  charming  emphasis  on 
fingertips!  Yesterday,  it  was  quite 
enough  that  a  woman's  hands  be  neatly 
groomed.  Today,  nature  must  be  aided 
and  abetted. 

The  very  smart  and  the  very  young 
were  first  to  discover  Glazo — but  soon 
even  the  most  conservative  among 
American  women  turned  to  these  un- 
usual preparations  for  the  brilliant  per- 
fection of  fingertips  fashion  demands! 

The  lovely  Glazo  polishes  captured 
the  spotlight  because 
they  brush  on  easily, 


dry  quickly,  and  never  pile  up,  peel  or 
turn  white  at  the  edges. 

The  new  Glazo  Cuticle  Remover 
Creme  is  far  in  advance  of  all  others! 
Do  try  this  soft,  gentle  creme — to  find 
out  how  even  and  smooth  it  leaves  the 
cuticle  edges.  Glazo  Nail  White,  Glazo 
Cuticle  Massage  Cream,  Glazo  Nicotine 
Remover — each  plays  its  part  in  the 
perfection  of  the  Glazo  manicure. 

Just  a  few  minutes  a  week  with  Glazo 

preparations — and  your  fingers  are  ten 

well-mannered  little  soldiers  of  charm. 

And  always  ready  to 

go  on  dress-parade! 


(Above)  —  Perfumed  Glazo  Liquid 
I'olish  comes  in  Natural,  Flame,  Ge- 
ranium or  Crimson — large  bottle,  50c. 
Perfumed  Glazo  Polish  Remover,  He. 


(Below)  —  Glazo  Cuticle  Remover 
Creme  presents  a  new  and  superior 
method  of  removing  excess  cuticle.  In 
a  convenient  tube,  50c. 


^^ 


f 


(Above)  —  The  famous  Glazo  twin 
package  contains  both  Liquid  Polish 
ana  Polish  Remover,  50c.  Choice  of 
Natural,  Colorless,  or  Deep  Shell. 


GLAZO 


THE  GLAZO  COMPANY.  Inc.    Dept.  GQ-71 
191  Hudson  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
I  enclose  ten  cents.  Please  send  me  samples  of  Glazo 
Liquid  Polish,  Polish  Remover,  and  the  new  Cuticle 
Remover  Creme.   (If  you   live   in   Canada,  address 
P.  O.  Box  2320,  Montreal.) 

Name 

Address 

City State 


104 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

ing  schedules,  until  after  they  were  back  in  bed 


again 


IT  CflUT 

mflK€  LflSH€S 

BRITTLE 

Injustice  to  your  eyes — take  care  of  your 
lashes.  Color  is  more  brilliant  against  black. 
Just  so  do  eyes  assume  new  brilliance  and 
new  beauty  when  your  lashes  have  a  touch 
of  darkness  .  .  . 

But,  of  course,  your  lashes  must  look  natural. 
Of  course,  they  must  stay  soft  and  silky  . . . 

The  new  Winx  gives  you  just  that:  lashes 
whichlooklong,soft  and  appealing.  ItsDouble 
Treatment  not  only  darkens  lashes;  it  also 
softens  them.  Coarse  and  brittle  lashes — 
lashes  stiff  with  make-up— are  now  impossible. 

The  new  Winx  (with  the  Double  Treat- 
ment) comes  in  two  forms.  Liquid — ■ 
easy  to  use — waterprooj — 75c.  Cake — 
packed in  asmart,sltm,  silvery  compact 
— $1.00.  Winx  doesn'  t  run  or  smudge. 


For 
\^ovely 
hashes 


VICTOR  McLAGLEN  proved  that 
there's  still  a  dash  of  Merrie 
England  left  in  him  when  he  met 
President  Hoover  recently.  Vic,  por- 
trayer  of  he-man  100-per-cent- 
American  roles  on  the  screen,  kept 
calling  the  President  "Your  Wor- 
ship," all  through  their  45-minute  in- 
terview. A  ripping  bit  o'  news,  eh, 
what? 


ITZI   GREEN  is  the  latest  Hollywood 
scene    stealer.      Even    the    kids    in    the 


M 

youngster  films  are  saying  to  each  other, 
"Watch  Mitzi.  Don't  let  her  have  it  all." 
Clever  little  trouper,  Mitzi.  She  has  learned 
young  to  protect  her  own  interests  in  a  busi- 
ness where  there  is  no  one  else  to  protect  them. 

CPEAKING  of  scene  stealing,  they  tell  this 
'-'one  on  Edmund  Lowe — who  is  considered, 
according  to  rumor,  one  of  the  best  in  the  busi- 
ness. 

In  "Scotland  Yard"  he  played  a  dual  role. 
Even  played  opposite  himself  in  some  scenes. 
They  marked  off  the  exact  spots  where  he  was 
to  stand  and  walk  so  when  they  dubbed  in  the 
other  half  (himself  in  the  other  role)  the  scenes 
would  match  exactly. 


When  contract  time  arrived  Joan  thought 
she  should  have  more  money  and  she  knew  that 
she  was  not  wise  enough  to  battle  with  the 
smart  executives  at  the  studio,  so  she  took  unto 
herself  a  manager. 

She's  never  had  one  before. 

Phil  Berg  is  the  manager's  name,  and  he's 
Leila  Hyams'  husband.  It  was  a  wise  move, 
and  the  new  contract  has  been  signed  at  a  great 
big  increase  in  salary. 

WELL,  anyway — there's  a  plum- 
ber in  Hollywood  named 
Hokom.  And  where'd  be  a  better 
place  for  him? 

TV  THEN  Marlene  Dietrich  first  came  to 
»V  Hollywood  she  was  assigned  one  of  the 
simplest  dressing  rooms  on  the  Paramount  lot. 
Furthermore,  she  was  too  timid  and  felt  herself 
too  unimportant  to  ask  for  a  telephone.  But 
everything  changes  when  money  clinks  at  the 
box-office.  Now  Marlene  has  a  new  dressing 
room.  It  is  all  done  in  style  modcmc  and  has  a 
kitchenette,  electric  refrigeration,  etc.,  etc., 
etc. 

nTHEY  burned  up  the  telegraph  wires  and  the 
*  telephone  asking  Mrs.  Lawrence  Tibbett  if 
it  were  true  that  the  famous  Lawrence  was  in 
Reno  to  get  a  divorce. 

Seems  that  Lawrence  was  on  his  way  to  San 


Did  You  Miss  the  First  Puzzle  Pictures? 

Never  you  mind!  Send  a  postcard  request  to  the  Picture 
Puzzle  Contest,  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE,  919  N.  Michigan 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

You'll  get  the  June  Puzzle  Pictures,  with  the  Rules,  FREE. 

So  come  on  in  and  get  yourself  a  piece  of  the  $5,000  cash  prizes! 

Stars  of  the  Photoplay 

which  contains  more  than  250  of  the  latest  and  very  best  por- 
traits and  short  biographical  sketches  of  favorite  screen  players 
will  help  you  in  solving  the  puzzles. 
Use  the  coupon  on  page  129. 


But  Eddie  is  so  used  to  stepping  back  in  a 
scene  so  the  person  playing  with  him  will  have 
to  turn  his  or  her  back  to  the  camera  (a  very 
old  trick)  that  he  kept  stepping  back  in  "Scot- 
land Yard."  He  forgot  that  he  was  stepping 
back  on  himself  —  whom  he  was  playing 
opposite.  In  fact,  they  had  to  show  him  the 
film  to  prove  to  him  that  he  was  cheating  him- 
self out  of  some  very  good  acting. 

RAMON  NOVARRO  plays  some  scenes  in 
"Son  of  India"  where  he  must  look  peaked; 
have  lines. 

He  lived  on  nothing  but  orange  juice  for  a 
week  so  his  face  would  have  natural  lines. 

"Why  don't  you  paint  them  in?"  someone 
inquired. 

"That's  not  art,"  Ramon  answered. 

However,  we  happen  to  know  Ramon  goes 
without  anything  to  eat  but  orange  juice  for  at 
least  a  week,  twice  a  year. 

He  thinks  it  is  good  training  in  abstinence 
and  he  also  believes  it  is  a  good  rest  for  the 
digestive  system. 

So  he  combined  art  with  his  regular  custom 
in  this  instance. 

NOW  that  it's  all  settled  the  story  can  be 
told.  For  the  first  time  in  her  life  Joan 
Crawford's  been  having  contract  trouble. 
Although  she's  been  getting  good  bonuses  on 
her  pictures,  Joan's  salary  has  not  been  in  any 
way  commensurate  with  her  draw  at  the  box- 
office 


Francisco  to  fill  a  concert  engagement.  Think- 
ing to  get  there  sooner,  he  got  off  the  train  at 
Reno  to  see  if  arrangements  could  be  made 
whereby  he  could  finish  his  journey  by  air- 
plane. 

He  found  that  he  could  not  and  climbed  back 
on  his  train  again. 

Somebody  saw  him  on  the  Reno  platform 
and  immediately  decided  that  he  must,  like  all 
the  rest  of  the  Nevada  town's  visitors,  be  there 
for  a  divorce. 

Another  disappointment  for  the  scandal 
hounds. 

LITTLE  Robert  Coogan  and  his  mother  went 
to  a  downtown  theater  to  see  the  kid's  first 
picture,  "Skippy."  On  their  way  out  Robert 
was  recognized  by  an  autograph  hunter  who 
asked  for  his  signature. 

Mrs.  Coogan  was  in  a  hurry  and,  remember- 
ing her  experiences  with  Jackie,  knew  that  if 
she  stopped,  a  crowd  would  gather  and  they'd 
be  a  long  time  getting  away.  So  she  said,  "  I'm 
sorry,  but  Robert's  such  a  little  boy  he  can't 
write." 

To  which  Bobby  indignantly  piped  up, 
"Why,  I  can,  too.  Sure  I'll  sign.  I  can  print 
my  name." 

KEEPING  up  with  Lola  Lane  and  Lew 
Ayres  is  a  job  for  one  reporter.  No  one 
Hollywood  couple  have  broken  it  off  and  made 
it  up  so  often.  But  it's  all  right — this  month, 
at  least. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


He  took  her  to  an  opening.  They  must  have 
had  an  awful  quarrel  for  him  to  make  a  gesture 
like  that.  He  doesn't  go  to  openings — even 
openings  of  pictures  made  by  the  company  he 
works  for. 

Incidentally,  Lew's  love  of  astronomy  is 
keeping  him  truly  poor.  His  scientific  library 
is  developing  into  one  of  the  finest  amateur 
ones  in  the  country. 

And  here  we  have  the  real  secret  of  Lew's 
constant  demands  for  more  salary.  He  must 
make  enough  from  pictures  to  maintain  a  very 
expensive,  although  noble,  hobby. 

"D  AMON  NOVARRO  does  little  entertain- 
■*■  Mng.  People  sometimes  wonder  why.  Here 
is  the  reason: 

He  had  recently  completed  his  own  private 
Little  Theater.  He  decided  to  give  himself  a 
birthday  party.  "I  knew  absolutely  nothing 
about  American  entertaining  so  I  turned  it  all 
over  to  a  caterer." 

He  paid  no  personal  attention  whatsoever. 
"And  when  we  went  into  the  Little  Theater," 
he  said,  "there  were  funny  little  tables  with 
patched  table  cloths;  no  flowers  anywhere;  and 
the  filet  mignon  was  not  only  overdone  but 
cold.  I  decided  I  would  not  become  a  social 
light  in  Hollywood." 


That  must  be  a  good  luck  coin  that 
Janet  Gaynor  is  so  carefully  putting 
in  her  bag.  Anyway,  she  is  back  on 
the  Fox  lot  and  we  shall  all  wait 
eagerly  for  her  next  appearance  in 
"Daddy  Long  Legs" 


you  need  the  purity  of  Kotex 


Kotex  is  too  closely  related  to 
health  to  risk  doubtful  substitutes 

SANITARY  protection  is  too  closely 
related  to  your  health  . . .  your  per- 
sonal ideals  of  cleanliness  ...  to  risk 
methods  of  whose  hygienic  safety  you 
are  uncertain. 

Consider  for  a  moment  the  infinite 
care  with  which  Kotex  is  made.  Hospi- 
tal standards  of  cleanliness  prevail,  in 
every  step  of  manufacture.  Modern  ma- 
chinery makes  Kotex  from  start  to  finish. 

Hospitals  use  Kotex 

And  so  Kotex  comes  to  you  immaculate, 
pure,  almost  surgically  clean.  Last  year, 
more  than  10,000,000  pads  were  used 
by  hospitals  alone.  Kotex  fully  meets 
their  requirements. 

No  sanitary  protection  of  lower  stand- 
ards should  ever  be  used.  True,  substi- 
tutes may  cost  a  few  cents  less  —  but 
remember  that  health,  too,  is  involved. 

Before  accepting  a  substitute  for 
Kotex,  consider  these  questions:  "What 
do  I  know  of  this  sanitary  protection? 
What  assurance  have  I  that  it's  fit  for 
such  intimate,  personal  use?"  In  addition 
to  health  protection,  Kotex  offers  every 
refinement  of  comfort.  Skillful  shaping 


Soft,  and  remains  soft  because  laminated 
layers  distribute  moisture  scientifically. 
Kotex  is  readily  adjusted  to  individual 
needs.  It  is  treated  to  deodorize.  Buy 
Kotex  at  any  drug,  dry  goods  or  depart- 
ment store. 

piM iitiuiiuiiiiiiiiiuiii niiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii mini ii  in  mini  iirnuiumui  m  n tig 

KOTEX  IS  SAFE  .  .  . 

|    \     Can  be  worn  on  either  side  with  equal    | 
comfort.  No  embarrassment. 

|  2  The  Kotex  absorbent  is  the  identical  § 
j§  material  used   by  surgeons  in  85<fc  of  the    | 

country's  leading  hospitals. 

|     3     Kotex  is  made  from  Cellucotton  (not  1 

cotton )   absorbent    wadding;   lighter  and  = 

cooler  than  cotton,  yet  absorbs  5  times  as  1 

=  much. 


I     4 

I     ^     Disposable,  instantly,  completely. 


Kotex  is  soft  .  .  .  laminated  layers   ab- 
sorb scientifically,  away  from  the  surface. 


Regular  Kotex— 45c  for  12 
Kotex  Super-Size— 65c  for  12 

aiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiii iiiiiimiu iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiii 

Brings  new  ideals  of  sanitary  comfort!  Woicn 
to  fit  by  an  entirely  new  patented  process. 
Firm  yet  light;  will  not  curl;  per  feet- fitting. 

KOT6X 

SANITARY   NAPKINS 


io6 


FUMING  km 
SUHBUftH 

There  is  no  need  to  put  up 
with  this  torture  when  you 
can  get  speedy  and  blessed 
relief  by  applying  a  film  of 
MENTHOLATUM.  It  is  cooling 
and  soothing. 

In  Jars  and  Tubes  .  .  30c 

Three  times  as  much  in 
Large  Jars 60c 


TRIAL 
OFFER 

Mail 
Valuable  Coupon 

Dept.  PF,  Mentholatum  Company,  Wichita,  Kansas 
Please  send  me  TRIAL  TUBE  of  MENTHOLATUM. 
Enclosed  is  4c  to  cover  mailing  cost. 

Name 


Address 


Photoplay  Magazine 

is  the  largest,  most  interesting  and  most 
intelligently  edited  magazine  devoted 
to  Moving  Pictures. 
A  year's  subscription  to  Photoplay 
brings  you  pictures  of  movie  stars  and 
actual  illustrations  of  their  work,  500 
reviews  of  current  productions  and  15 
to  20  short  stories. 

Get  the  best  your  money  can  buy. 
Send  in  your  subscription  N  O  V/! 

$2.50  per  Year 

Canada  $3.00  —  Foreign  $3.50 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Dept.  PM-7    919  N.  Michigan,  Chicago 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

Now,  when  he  does  invite  a  few  friends  to 
dine  with  him,  he  reserves  a  private  dining 
room  at  Victor  Hugo's. 

HPHE  suave  Conrad  Nagel,  who  holds  Holly- 
*■  wood's  record  for  mastering  of  ceremonies, 
wasn't  so  suave  the  other  evening. 

He  was  saying  his  usual  few  words  before 
he  introduced  the  castat  the  opening  of  "Seed." 

"This  industry  pays  tribute  to  a  great 
picture  like  this  no  matter  what  studio  pro- 
duces it — " 

And  the  studio  was  Universal;  and  the  open- 
ing was  staged  as  still  another  tribute  to  Carl 
Laemmle,  Sr. 

In  all  fairness  to  Conrad,  no  one  was  more 
surprised  at  the  words  than  he  was — or  more 
embarrassed. 

SOMEONE  around  our  office  told  me  that 
Mary  Philbin  was  ill  and  might  have  to 
follow  Renee  Adoree  and  Lila  Lee  to  Arizona 
for  a  long  rest. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  have  never  seen  Mary 
looking  better  in  her  life. 

Why  that  girl  hasn't  been  more  active  in 
pictures  is  something  I  can't  understand. 

EDWARD  EVERETT  HORTON,  who  did 
such  fine  work  as  Douglas  Fairbanks'  valet 
in  "Reaching  for  the  Moon,"  and  as  the  fussy 
reporter  in  "  The  Front  Page,"  is  evidently  em- 
barrassed these  days,  for  every  time  his  name 


leave  it  to  Connie  Bennett  to  think  up  one 
better. 

By  the  by,  naughty  old  Paramount  drew  the 
line  at  providing  real  marble  tops  for  Lil's 
tables. 

(Oh,  yes,  Paramount  paid  the  bills;  that  is, 
the  principal  ones.) 

So  the  only  thing  we  can  think  of  for  some 
rival  to  do,  is  to  copy  Lil's  general  scheme  and 
then  go  her  one  better  with  real  marble  instead 
of  really  excellent  imitation. 

"EVERYONE'S  heard  of  Hollywood's  press- 
-'-'agents. 

They're  the  boys  and  girls  hired  by  studios 
and  stars  to  put  things  into  the  papers — and 
keep  them  out  of  them. 

Press  agents  work  awfully  hard  in  this  town 
to  keep  the  name  of  our  little  city  and  industry 
holy. 

Them  press  agents  have  an  organization 
called  "The  Wampas." 

You  remember  the  "Wampas  Ball,"  when 
thirteen  baby  stars  were  chosen  for  political 
or  other  reasons? 

Well,  those  are  the  boys  who  did  it,  and 
they  did  it  so  badly  the  Wampas  baby  star 
idea  blew  up. 

This  year  they  gave  a  roast  instead — a  great 
big  dinner  (ten  dollars  a  plate  and  no  com- 
plimentary tickets)  which  was  supposed  to  be 
a  take-off  on  the  industry. 

But  it  proved  to  be  a  boomerang — the  most 


Voting  Time  Is  Here 

Have  a  part  in  selecting  the  outstanding  motion 
picture  that  will  win  the  eleventh  annual  award  of 
the  Photoplay  Medal  of  Honor. 

Your  ballot  awaits  you  on  page  76. 


is  mentioned  in  Hollywood  someone  is  bound 
to  bob  up  and  say,  "Fine  chap,  Eddie.  He'd 
make  an  ideal  husband." 

Trying  to  get  him  married  seems  to  be  an 
obsession. 

Eddie  has  been  in  Hollywood  ten  years  now 
and  still  remains  a  bachelor.  That,  in  itself,  is 
a  Hollywood  novelty. 

But  lest  some  gay  young  thing  set  out  to 
correct  this  condition  let  her  be  warned  before- 
hand. 

Eddie  is  a  bachelor,  yes,  BUT,  he's  got  seven 
children  living  with  him.  They  belong  to  his 
brothers  and  sisters. 

Also,  nine  dogs,  five  cats,  400  chickens,  two 
canaries,  30  turkeys,  three  cars  and  a  rambling, 
New  England  type  of  house  out  in  Encino  that 
requires  ten  servants  to  look  after. 

■""PHIS  is  just  a  suggestion — and  meant  only 
■*-  in  praise  of  Una  Merkel's  ability.  Una  is  a 
great  little  actress.  She's  talented  enough  to 
stand  entirely  on  her  own  merits,  and  her  own 
style. 

So  it's  just  a  bit  galling  to  see  her  in  "Fame" 
— doing  as  obvious  an  mutation  of  ZaSu  Pitts' 
stuff  as  it's  possible  to  do. 

Una's  too  good  as  Una  to  have  to  be  someone 
else! 

WELL,  we  have  seen  Lil  Tashman's  new 
dressing  room  at  last.  Now  we  under- 
stand the  envy  it  has  caused  Paramount's 
other  feminine  contenders.  Its  green  and 
white  coolness  (who  but  Tashman  would  think 
of  using  green  and  white  table  damask  for 
drapes  and  couch  covers?)  makes  one  think  of 
ice  tinkling  in  tall  glasses.  And  if  that  isn't 
the   height   of   sophistication — we'll   have    to 


risque  and  unkind  entertainment  ever  dished 
out  in  the  film  industry. 

And  it  was  written,  directed  and  presented 
by  the  boys  who  are  paid  to  keep  the  city 
clean  and  decent — at  least  in  the  newspapers. 

THEY'RE  telling  the  story  that  during  a 
recent  radio  talk  author  Lawrence  Stallings 
declared  he  had  helped  King  Vidor  direct  "  The 
Big  Parade." 

King  was  listening  in  and  this  was  big  news, 
but  he  ran  to  the  nearest  telegraph  office  and 
filed  the  following  wire,  "Be  sure  to  mention 
that  I  did  NOT  help  you  write  'Old  Iron- 
sides.' " 

JOHN  MIL  JAN  was  describing  how  a  camel 
took  to  bucking  on  the  set  of  "Son  of  India." 
where  Miljan  is  working. 

"The  camel  is  a  terrible  animal,"  John 
added.  "He  is  an  excellent  example  of  pro- 
hibition— as  distorted  as  the  law  itself." 

"Do  you  wish  to  be  quoted  on  that?"  a  re- 
porter inquired. 

"Certainly.    I  hate  prohibition." 

BEBE  DANIELS'  hurried  trip  to  New  York 
was  for  broadcasting  purposes.  She  ad- 
mitted that  this  first  separation  from  her  hus- 
band would  probably  be  the  last.  She's 
decided  to  stay  a  blonde  as  she  thinks  it  photo- 
graphs better. 

A  HAIRDRESSER  tells  us  she  used  to  do 
the  hair  for  the  young  ladies  of  the  Marl- 
borough school. 

You  know,  the  young  ladies. 
And  she  also  tells  us  that  Carole  Lombard 
was  among  them. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


107 


She  gives  her  a  social  rating  that  would  make 
New  York's  Town  Topics  sit  up  and  take 
notice. 

There's  just  one  town  in  the  world  where  it's 
wisest  to  keep  a  pedigree  buried,  because  it's  as 
out  of  place  as  Death  Valley  Scotty's  palace  in 
the  barren  desert.  And  Hollywood's  that  one 
town. 

OUR  pictures  are  progressing,  my  deahs — 
really  progressing.  Mrs.  J.  Ogden  Armour, 
wife  of  Chicago's  one  and  only  Armour,  played 
as  an  extra  in  Radio  Pictures'  "White 
Shoulders." 

SINCE  becoming  a  Paramount  star  Miriam 
Hopkins  has  acquired  a  Pierce  Arrow.  Used 
to  have  a  Ford  when  she  was  on  the  stage.  .  .  . 
Frederick  Lonsdale,  the  Englishman  who  wrote 
"The  Devil  to  Pay,"  says  he  won't  do  a 
scenario  for  Garbo  because  "she  cannot  speak 
good  English."  .  .  .  Mae  Murray's  friends 
tell  us  she  is  making  $3,000  a  day  out  of  oil  on 
her  California  property. 

BESIDES  creating  a  lot  of  interest,  and  an- 
noying some  super-fans  who  think  he  should 
never  have  done  it,  Charlie  FarrelPs  marriage 
to  Virginia  Valli  did  one  other  thing. 

It  added  poundage  to  Charlie  Farrell.  He 
was  considerably  heavier  when  he  returned 
from  his  honeymoon  than  when  he  left  Holly- 
wood a  couple  of  months  before !  And  it  is  very 
becoming. 

TTOLLYWOOD  lads  are  offering  marriages 
■*■  •'•of  convenience  to  the  poor  little  foreign 
actresses  that  are  about  to  be  shipped  home  by 
the  termination  of  their  six  months'  admission 
ticket  from  the  immigration  authorities. 

There  are  plenty  of  marriageable  young 
Americans  and  Latins  floating  around  who  are 
willing  to  trade  an  "I  do"  for  a  wife  who  will 
do  the  supporting. 

Once  married,  the  girls  are  not  assured 
citizenship,  but  they  do  receive  more  leniency 
from  the  government. 

The  hope  of  a  Garbo-like  success  outweighs 
the  lack  of  romance.  And  isn't  Reno  veree 
convenient? 

WELL,  Jack  Oakie  feels  he  is  a  big  shot  now 
and  he  and  his  producers  are  at  it  again. 

About  six  months  ago  Jack  drew  up  his 
spinal  column  into  indignant  ridges  and  said  he 
wouldn't  work  unless  he  got  more  money. 

Wesley  Ruggles,  director  of  "Cimarron," 
had  a  contract  as  manager  for  Jack  on  which  he 
claimed  he  was  entitled  to  as  much  as  Jack 
made. 

Jack  conferred  with  another  manager  who, 
in  turn,  battled  with  Paramount  for  Oakie. 

It  was  finally  settled  thusly:  Mr.  Oakie  was 
to  get  $20,000  bonus  per  picture  for  two 
pictures. 

When  these  two  were  completed  he  was  to 
receive  a  bonus  commensurate  with  the  profit 
made  by  his  pictures. 


The  Shadow  Stage 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  53  ] 


YOUNG  SINNERS— Fox 

AN  ordinary  picture,  relieved  by  the  pres- 
ence of  Tommy  Meighan,  whose  Irish 
brogue  seems  a  little  old-fashioned  now.  It  is 
the  old  story  of  modern  kids  in  a  jazz  and  cock- 
tail setting,  who  act  more  like  inmates  of  an 
insane  asylum.  Meighan,  as  a  physical 
trainer,  takes  one  of  these  modern  youths  in 
hand  and  knocks  all  the  foolishness  out  of  him. 
Dorothy  Jordan  is  featured  in  a  couch  wrestling 
match  with  the  boy,  Hardie  Albright. 

THE  SKY  RAIDERS— Columbia 
XTOW  they're  taking  gangsters  in  the  air. 
•*-  ^  This  one  concerns  a  group  of  crooks  who 
plan  to  rob  the  air  express  plane.     But  it's 


"I  avoid  complexion  troubles   by 

using    Kleenex  to   remove   cold 

cream" .  .  .  LAURA  LA  PLANTE 

"It's  necessary 

to  remove  all 

cleansing 

cream.    Other- 

I  wise  it  holds 

(dirt,    powder 

land     even 

germs   in  the 

Ipores.     Skin 

(specialists    tell 

|one  this  is  the 

way  so  many 

bad  complexions  get  their  start." 


•*. 


T   < 


Thousands  acclaim  health  value  of  Kleenex  for 
handkerchiefs!  Authorities  also  widely  advise 
these  disposable  tissues  for  facial  cleansing 


USE  Kleenex  instead  of  handker- 
chiefs. That's  the  advice  of  medical 
science  today.  Take  no  chances  with 
dangerous  self-infection.  Use  a  handker- 
chief you  can  destroy. 

Kleenex  is  a  soft,  absorbent  tissue.  The 
size  of  a  handkerchief.  So  inexpensive  it 
is  used  just  once,  then  destroyed.  With 
it  go  countless  germs.  Germs  that  cause 
self-infection  if  carried  back  to  nose  and 
mouth. 

Costs  less  than  laundering 

Kleenex  does  away  with  unpleasant 
handkerchief  washing.  It  actually  costs 
less  than  commercial  laundering  of 
handkerchiefs. 

Kleenex  tissues  are  soft  and  soothing 
— thus,  are  ideal  for  children.  For  colds 
and  hay  fever.  Try  Kleenex  just  once, 
and  the  old-time  handkerchief  will  seem 
impossible. 

Authorities  advise  Kleenex  for  remov- 
ing cold  cream  and  cosmetics.  Only  the 
super-absorbency    of    Kleenex    will    re- 

KLEENEX 

Disposable  Tissues 


move  all  germ-laden  matter  with  cleans- 
ing cream.  Authentic  tests  prove  Kleenex 
25%  more  absorbent  than  other  tissues 
commonly  called  highly  absorbent. 
That's  why  such  authorities  as  Miss  La 
Plante  insist  on  Kleenex,  in  spite  of 
claims  made  by  imitative  tissues. 

Insist  on  Cellophane  wrapping 

Kleenex  comes  in  a  smart,  modern 
box.  Cellophane  wrapping  brings  every 
tissue  to  you  fresh,  immaculate  and  sani- 
tary. Kleenex  comes  in  exquisite  pastel 
tints,  as  well  as  white. 

At  drug,  dry  goods  and  department 
stores.  25c,  50c  and  $1.  Prices  the  same  in 
Canada. 


PH-7 


Kleenex  Company, 
Lake  Michigan  Bldg., 
Chicago,    Illinois. 

Please  send  free  trial 
supply  of  Kleenex. 


Name  . 


Street . 
City — 


-State- 


In  Canada,  address  330  Bay  St., Toronto,  Ont. 


io8 


PICTURES  THAT  SATISFY 


OR  A   NEW   FILM   FREE! 


Complete  confi- 
dence in  the  won- 
derful results 
obtainable  with 
Agfa  Film  under 
all  conditions 
makes  possible 
this  unusua 
guarantee. 


A  Guarantee  Bond        ^^    I  Iwl 

With  Every  Roll  "         "     ■"■  ■  T  ■ 

AGFA    ANSCO   OF    BINGHAMTON,    N.  Y 


Amazing 

New  Hair  Brush 

No  wonder  society  women  —  screen 
stars — all  those  to  whom  beauty  and 
time  are  precious  write  us  enthusiasti- 
cally and  gratefully  about  this  unique 
hair  brush — with  graduated  bristles. 

It  reduces  hair  brushing  time  33}^% — 
gives  luxurious,  healthy  hair.  Its  grad- 
uated bristles  reach  down  into  the  hair 
and  onto  the  scalp — removing  loose 
dandruff — cleansing  the  scalp — stimu- 
lating the  circulation. 

Just  send  $2.00  for  the  large  size  brush 
or  $1.25  for  the  regular  size  brush — 
also  your  dealer's  name.  Specify  color 
— nile  green,  beige  or  coral.  Each  brush 
is  genuine  Pyroloid. 

THE 

WILCOX 

HAIR  BRUSH 


section  view 
shows  how  con- 
caved bristles  of 
Wilcox  Hair  Brush 
fit  the  head. 


ATHOL, 
MASS. 


J 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

thrilling  stuff.  Naturally,  it's  not  as  spec- 
tacular as  "Hell's  Angels"  and  "Dirigible," 
but  it's  first-class  A-l  entertainment.  Lloyd 
Hughes  and  Marceline  Day  play  the  nice 
people.    Wheeler  Oakman  is  the  villain. 

UPPER  UNDERWORLD— 
First  National 

V\  7HILE  this  story  is  of  graft  and  grafters 
W  in  high  places  it  is  quite  at  variance  with 
the  usual  racketeering  picture,  and  is  guar- 
anteed to  make  you  think.  You  will  like  it 
tremendously  or  not  at  all.  Walter  Huston, 
Doris  Kenyon,  Loretta  Young  and  David 
Manners  have  the  principal  roles  and  play 
them  superbly.  Our  prediction  is  that  you  will 
be  highly  entertained. 

A  WOMAN  OF  EXPERIENCE— 
RKO-Pathe 

A  VERAGE  entertainment  is  the  best  we  can 
-'••give  it  despite  the  splendid  cast  which  does 
collectively  fine  acting.  The  preview  audience 
saw  the  first  shots  and  groaned,  "another  war 
picture."  They  came  out  of  their  resigned 
slump  for  the  end,  which  is  different  and  excit- 
ing. Helen  Twelvetrees  warranted  the  ap- 
plause the  flash  of  her  name  received,  as  did 
ZaSu  Pitts,  Lew  Cody  and  William  Bakewell. 
Spy  stories  should  be  thrilling  throughout. 
This  isn't. 

THE  GOOD  BAD  GIRL— Columbia 

"NJOTHING  new  or  different  here.  The  old 
•*-^plot  of  the  girl  who  leaves  the  racket  to 
marry  and  go  straight.  But  it's  tough  going. 
Front  page  stories  reveal  her  identity  and  the 
future  looks  black.  Mae  Clarke  is  sincere  as 
the  girl.  James  Hall  plays  the  man  she  marries 
and  Robert  Ellis  is  fine  as  a  smooth  crook. 
Marie  Prevost  is  good  as  the  comedy  girl 
friend. 

THE  AFFAIRS  OF  ANNABELLE—Fox 

ALAUGHWORTHY  farce  that  sparkles 
with  bright  lines — well  spoken  by  a  cast 
of  expert  talkie  makers.  Jeanette  MacDonald 
proves  herself  a  clever  farceuse  and  Victor 
McLaglen,  as  the  husband  she  fails  to  recog- 
nize, wins  a  lot  of  laughs  by  his  own  work. 
Then  there  are  Roland  Young,  Sam  Hardy  and 
the  Senior  Collier,  and  others  equally  capable. 
Well  directed  —  well  played  —  well  photo- 
graphed. 

EVERYTHING'S  ROSIE— 
Radio  Pictures 

HpHE  principal  difference  between  this  and  an 
*■  hour-long  phonograph  record  is  that  this  is 
played  on  a  movie  projection  machine.  It's 
one  of  the  talkiest  talkies  yet  released.  And 
they  use  the  same  gags  grandfather  laughed  at. 
If  you  want  action  in  movies,  don't  bother  with 
this.  If  you  like  much  talk,  go  ahead  and  risk 
it.  You'll  see  Anita  Louise,  Robert  Woolsey 
and  John  Darrow. 

GOLD  DUST  GERTIE— Warners 

HpHIS  is  not  one  of  those  ambitious  domestic 
■A-  cleaning  twins,  nor  is  it  a  typical  gold- 
digging  specimen.  It's  the  exuberant  Winnie 
Lightner,  with  a  marrying  complex,  hopelessly 
lost  in  a  bad  story.  Olsen  and  Johnson,  play- 
ing straight,  make  a  sad  sight  and  even  with 
Arthur  Caesar's  dialogue  and  Lloyd  Bacon's 
direction,  the  result  is  mediocre  entertainment. 

SUBWAY  EXPRESS— Columbia 

ONE  of  the  mysteries  in  connection  with 
"Subway  Express"  Jack  Holt  might  try  to 
solve  is  what  happened  to  the  entertainment 
value  of  this  stage  mystery  thriller  in  adapting 
it  to  the  screen.  In  its  present  version,  it  is 
pretty  slow  stuff.  Jack  Holt  as  the  mystery- 
solving  Inspector  Killian,  and  the  novelty  of 
having  all  the  action  take  place  in  a  New  York 
subway  car,  offer  the  only  interest. 


What  $2.50 

Will  Bring  Yon 

In  twelve  issues  of 
Photoplay  hundreds 
of  unusual  pictures  of 
photoplayers  and  illus- 
trations of  their  work 
and  pastime. 

Scores  of  interesting  ar- 
ticles about  the  people 
you  see  on  the  screen. 

Splendidly  written 
short  stories,  some  of 
which  you  will  see 
acted  at  your  moving 
picture  theater. 

Brief  reviews  of  cur- 
rent pictures  with  full 
casts  of  stars  playing. 

The  truth  and  nothing 
but  the  truth,  about 
motion  pictures,  the 
stars,  and  the  industry. 

You  have  read  this  issue 
of  Photoplay,  so  there  is 
no  necessity  for  telling  you 
that  it  is  one  of  the  most 
superbly  illustrated,  the 
best  written  and  most  at- 
tractively printed  maga- 
zines published  today  — 
and  alone  in  its  field  of 
motion  pictures. 

Send  a   money   order   or  check 
for  $2.50  addressed  to 

Photoplay  Magazine 

Dept.  H-7,  919 No. Michigan  Av.,  CHICAGO 

and   receive  the  next  issue  and 
eleven  issues  thereafter. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Department  H-7 
919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  $2.50  (Can- 
ada $3.00;  Foreign  $3.50),  for  which  you  will 
kindly  enier  my  subscription  for  Photoplay 
Magazine  for  twelve  months  (twelve  issues) 
effective   with   the  next  issue. 


Send  to. 


Street  Address. 


City 


State 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


6  CYLINDER  LOVE— Fox 

THIS  is  an  amusing  enough  little  farce, 
pretty  obvious,  but  the  sort  of  thing  that 
every  husband  will  enjoy,  since  it  recounts  the 
adventures  of  a  pair  of  newlyvveds  who  live  be- 
yond their  means,  due  to  the  wife's  love  of  a 
fine  car.  Spencer  Tracy  is  a  scream  in  a  part 
all  too  short.  The  cast  includes  El  Brendel, 
William  Collier,  Sr.,  Sidney  Fox,  Edward 
Everett  Horton. 

WAITING  AT  THE  CHURCH— 
Radio  Pictures 

A  PROGRAM  picture  with  an  amusing 
story — the  chorus  girl  who  frames  the 
millionaire  and  later  confesses  all.  The  dia- 
logue is  pretty  bad  and  the  comedy  not  so 
funny.  The  bright  spot  or  rather  the  lovely 
pastel  harmony  of  the  film  is  the  Technicolor. 
Mary  Brian  does  good  dramatic  work  and 
Geoffrey  Kerr,  from  the  stage,  is  fine.  Marie 
Prevost  and  Johnny  Hines  cop  the  laughs. 

THIS  MODERN  AGE—M-G-M 

SOMEBODY  said,  "Joan  Crawford  has  been 
doing  too  much  dramatic  stuff.  She  should  be 
gay."  So  they  dashed  off  the  most  impossible 
and  ridiculous  story  you  have  ever  heard. 
Joan — with  blonde  hair — has  never  looked 
more  beautiful,  nor  dressed  more  lavishly. 
Good  actors,  such  as  Marjorie  Rambeau,  Neil 
Hamilton,  Monroe  Owsley,  and  gorgeous 
atmosphere  modcrnc  are  wasted  on  this  bad 
material. 

THE  TEXAS  RANGER— Columbia 

SO  this  time  it's  the  gal  who's  accused  of  the 
murder  and  the  honest  ranger  is  sent  out  to 
find  her.  But  she  says  it  ain't  true,  which  it 
isn't.  She  was  only  trying  to  avenge  the  death 
9f  her  father.  The  ranger  falls  in  love  with  the 
gal  and  finds  the  real  murderer.  Buck  Jones  is 
the  hero;  Carmelita  Geraghty,  the  heroine. 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners 

THE   Captain  is  another  of   those   Robin- 
Hoodish  caballeros  whose  lawless  deeds  are 
always  for  some  good  end.     Victor  Varconi 


.LWAYS  keep  a  package  of  double 
mint  handy.  Makes  the  next  smoke  taste  better. 
And  then,  too,  always  remember  that  double 
mint  is  the  best  little  Beauty  Treatment  on  rec- 
ord. Every  fresh  stick  that  you  enjoy  is  as  good 
as  a  Facial  and  gives  your  mouth  and  lips  the 
natural  "exercise"  they  miss  in  this  era  of  soft 
foods.  Did  you  ever  consider  how  every  part  of 
your  body  except  your  face,  gets  exercise? 
That's  why  faces  get  wrinkles.  Movie  folk  call 
double  mint  their  wrinkle  chaser. 


Here's  Cinderella,  1931  version.  Ruth 
Hall  was  only  a  college  freshman  from 
Florida  a  little  over  a  year  ago — now 
she  is  putting  the  romance  into  the 
mad  Marx'  "Monkey  Business"  out 
at  Paramount 


•     INEXPENSIVE    •    SATISFYING 


I  IO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


'heap  cigarettes  are  like  quick  lunch 
counters.  Fine  when  you  must  use  them! 

INot  all  can  afford  dainty  linen  and 
sparkling  silver  of  an  expensive  restaurant. 

£5ut  anyone  can  manage  an  extra 
nickel  for  Mariboros — America's  Finest 
Cigarette  —  to  buy  55%  more  safety  and 
enjoyment  for  only  5  cents  more  in  price. 

JVLild  as  May — by  nature,  not  treat- 
ment. Packed  tips  DOWN  by  machinery. 
No  fingers  can  soil  their  freshness.  For 
fastidious  friends,  make  your  next  package 


MARLBORO 

IVORY   TIPPED   OR  PLAIN  & 


Name. 


Address. 


PIN  MONEY 
FOR  OUR  READERS 


PHOTOPLAY  now  offers  its  readers  the  opportu- 
nity to  convert  their  spare  time  into  real  money  by 
becoming  its  subscription  representatives  in  the  town 
or  community  in  which  they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of  Photoplay,  will  be  quick  to 
realize  the  money-making  possibilities  this  offer  affords 
you.  Your  friends — your  neighbors — in  fact,  all  the 
homes  in  your  community — are  prospective  subscribers 
for  Photoplay.     Who,  today,  is  not  interested  in 

moving  pictures — the 
chief  recreation  of  the 
American  public? 

Be  the  first  in  your  com- 
munity to  take  advantage  of 
this  offer,  and  get  started  at 
once.  The  coupon  or  a  post 
card  will  bring  further  details. 


PHOTOPLAY  magazine, 

Dept.  RE-7,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave., 

Chicago,  111. 

I  am  interested  in  your  money-making  offer 
to  your  readers.    Send  me  the  details  at  once. 


City. 


.State. 


does  well,  assisted  by  Fay  Wray  and  Don 
Alvarado.  But  "  Captain  Thunder"  is  really  a 
dull  story,  without  even  the  lightning  of  good 
dialogue  to  strike  an  audience  spark. 

WHITE  SHOULDERS— Radio  Pictures 

HPWENTY  millions  is  a  heap  of  money.  Mary 
*■  Astor,  starving  chorus  girl,  knew  it.  So 
when  an  offer  of  marriage  came  with  it,  she 
took  it.  "If  you  double  cross,  you'll  suffer," 
was  the  only  stipulation.  She  broke  it.  Thus 
we  have  the  Rex  Beach  story  "White  Shoul- 
ders" turned  into  a  good  program  picture.  Jack 
Holt  carries  twenty  million  admirably;  Ricardo 
Cortez  makes  a  villainous  co-sufferer. 

THE  FLOOD— Columbia 

ELEANOR  BOARDMAN,  Monte  Blue  and 
David  Newell,  the  principals,  fight  as  val- 
iantly to  save  a  weak  story,  poorly  directed,  as 
the  young  engineer  does  to  stop  that  Ole  Man 
River  from  breaking  through  the  levees.  It's 
no  use,  though.  The  flood  comes — and  it's  a 
complete  washout.  Miss  Boardman's  beauty 
and  intelligence  add  what  little  color  there  is  to 
this  drab  would-be  melodrama. 

MONSTERS  OF  THE  DEEP— 
Nat.  Spitzer  Prod. 

THE  people  who  were  behind  notorious  old 
"Ingagi"  were  interested  in  this,  too — but 
there's  no  faking  in  this  fish  film.  It's  an 
always  entertaining  and  interesting,  and  some- 
times thrilling  picture — story  of  fishing  adven- 
ture in  Magdalena  Bay,  off  the  Mexican  coast, 
where  mammoth  fish  abound.  Whales,  tuna, 
sharks,  sting-rays  and  even  a  sinister,  giant 
devil-fish  contribute  their  activities  to  a  be- 
guiling evening's  screening. 


Bellamy,  Bronson, 
Borden 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  71  ] 

with  the  statement  that  Madge  had  been 
gently  eased  out  of  Fox,  that  she  had  taken  on 
weight,  that  she  had  failed  as  a  talkie  actress,  I 
Madge  wanted  to  make  one  more  good  picture,  I 
just  to  show  'em.  A  test  at  M-G-M  brought 
an  offer  of  $3,000  for  one  picture,  which  she 
indignantly  refused.  An  offer  from  Universal 
recently  brought  the  answer  that  she  would  not 
make  a  test. 

She's  through  with  pictures,  she  says.  The 
furniture  of  her  enormous  home  has  been  sold 
at  auction.  No  doubt,  by  the  time  you  read 
this,  she  will  be  on  her  way  to  Europe, 
where  she  and  her  mother  will  make  their  home 
in  a  town  in  Switzerland  and  will  live  there  for 
two  years,  three — perhaps  all  their  lives. 

AND  now,  for  Olive  Borden. 
Again,  temperament  rears  its  ugly  head. 
She  was  not  popular  around  the  studio.  Once, 
Winfield  Sheehan,  just  returned  from  Europe, 
sent  for  her.  She  declared,  through  her  secre- 
tary, that  she  was  busy.  Sheehan  had  only 
wanted  to  give  her  a  very  beautiful  and  expen- 
sive doll  that  he  had  brought  from  Paris  for  her. 

Her  salary  at  Fox  was  $1,750  a  week.  Her 
next  increase  was  to  $2,000.  Because  business 
was  bad,  the  studio  wanted  to  renew  at  the  old 
salary.  Olive,  with  her  mother  behind  her, 
refused.  She  said  her  lawyer  could  secure 
$3,500  a  week  at  United  Artists  for  her  serv- 
ices.   It  was  okay  with  Fox. 

Olive  then  went  to  RKO.  Having  dis- 
covered that  being  a  grand  lady  only  brought 
disaster,  she  decided  to  be  "just  plain  folks." 

Olive  declares  that  she  was  told  to  create  the 
background  of  a  great  lady. 
*     *     * 

SO,  now,  you  see  that  in  every  case  the  pro- 
ducer claims  the  star  is  temperamental,  and 
the  star  counters  with  a  good  alibi  for  that 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


I  I  I 


temperament.  What's  the  answer?  Pull  up  a 
chair  and  listen. 

Garbo  is  temperamental.  But  her  options 
are  renewed.  The  reason  is  that  she  draws  at 
the  good  old  box-office.  The  producers  will 
put  up  with  anything  as  long  as  the  musical 
tinkle  of  nickels  and  dimes  strikes  their  ears. 

When  someone  is  let  out  at  a  studio,  you 
hear  hundreds  of  wild  rumors.  The  reason  is, 
simply,  that  those  who  are  let  out  do  not  drag 
the  customers  in  and  make  money  for  the  pro- 
ducers that  is  commensurate  with  their  salaries. 

Recently,  Paramount  has  dropped  from  its 
contract  list,  Mary  Brian,  Fay  Wray  and  Jean 
Arthur.  This  came  as  a  shock.  Mary  had  been 
with  the  company  for  six  years,  Fay  for  five, 
Jean  for  three  and  a  half.  Mary  received 
something  like  $1,700  a  week,  Fay  about 
$1,000. 

Both  are  charming,  sweet  young  women  who 
have  never  caused  a  single  grey  hair  in  a  single 
producer's  head.  But  they  simply  didn't 
draw.  Neither  is  starring  material  and,  al- 
thogh  both  have  a  certain  fan  following  and 
both  are  capable  leading  women,  their  salaries, 
which  increase  with  every  option,  overbalance 
their  money-making  powers. 

IF  Madge  Bellamy  had  been  a  tremendous 
money-maker,  they  would  have  given  her 
another  director.  If  Betty  Bronson  had  been 
dragging  in  the  shekels,  they  would  have 
listened  to  her  mother's  arguments.  And  if 
you  can  explain  why  one  star's  name  in  front 
of  a  theater  means  money  and  another  doesn't, 
then  come  to  Hollywood  and  make  yourself  a 
couple  of  million  dollars. 

Mary  Philbin  is  another  of  those  nice  little 
girls  who  simply  did  not  click  at  the  box-office. 
In  "Merry-Go-Round,"  she  gave,  for  Director 
Von  Stroheim,  one  of  the  loveliest  perform- 
ances ever  seen  in  films.  But  after  that,  she 
somehow  became  just  the  sweet,  harassed 
heroine.  Even  her  engagement  to  Paul 
Kohner,  then  an  official  at  Universal,  did  not 
help  her  to  better  roles.  She  has  not  worked 
for  a  number  of  months.  There  was  no  tem- 
perament.   No  trouble.    Just  no  box-office. 

One  theory,  and  I  believe  it's  the  right  one, 
is  that  nowadays  a  star  must  have  glamor. 
Mary  Brian,  Fay  Wray  and  Jean  Arthur  are 
just  like  the  girl  next  door — nice  and  sweet  and 
pretty,  but  having  no  breathless  excitement,  no 
maddening  ecstasy.     The  great  outstanding 


Do  you  remember  this  old  favorite,  in 
spite  of  the  petulant  look,  which  is 
part  of  her  role?  You're  right,  it  is 
Kathlyn  Williams,  who  makes  a  wel- 
come return  in  the  Gaynor  picture, 
"Daddy  Long  Legs" 


ilo  avoid  ^midsummer  wiltr 


.  depend  on 


tnese  tk 


ree 


v  _ 

No.  1 
The  Freshener.  Too  tired  to 
enjoy  your  evenings  ?  —  try 
this  freshening  bath. 


No.  2 
The  After-exercise  Bath. 

Relaxes    muscles,   prevents 
soreness,    relieves   fatigue. 


No.  3 
The    Energizer.    A    wake -up 
bath  for  those  dull,  tired  morn- 
ings that  follow  hot  sultry  nights. 


WHLTING  heat  of  mid-sum- 
W  mer!  When  your  clothes 
cling  and  pull  and  won't  fit  !right. 
When  every  muscle  in  your  body 
feels  tired  and  your  brain  refuses 
to  work! 

Don't  let  this  summer  "wilt" 
you.  The  Book  About  Baths  tells 
how  to  make  summers  more  com- 
fortable—  play-days  more  pleas- 
ant, work-days  more  successful. 

The  after-ivork  or  freshening 
bath,  for  instance,  can  make  your 
evenings  much  more  enjoyable. 
Fill  the  tub  with  moderately  warm  water  (yes, 
even  though  it  is  summer).  Soak  for  five  or  ten 
minutes  until  completely  relaxed.  Then  finish 
off  with  a  quick  cold  splash  (shower  or  tub). 
Put  on  clean  clothes.  See  page  1 6  of  our  booklet. 

If  you  are  already  familiar  with  this  use 
of  the  bath  you  know  how  much  good  such 
a  simple  thing  can  do! 

The  morning  ivake-up   bath  or  energizer 


CLEANLINESS 
INSTITUTE 

Established  to  promote  public  welfare 
by  teaching  the  value  of  cleanliness 


A  most  unusual  booklet! 
The  Book  About  Baths.  Bow 
to  make  baths  help  you  .  .  . 
what  kind  to  take  .  .  .  and 
when  and  how  to  take  them. 
Free,  sec   the  coupon  below. 


gives  new  energy  even  after  the 
hottest  night.  No  more  tired,  slug- 
gish, "fit-for- nothing"  mornings. 
Unless  you  honestly  enjoy  a  cold 
bath,  the  wake-up  bath  should  be- 
gin as  a  mildly  warm  one — using 
cold  water  only  for  the  final  splash. 
And,  of  course,  you  agree  that  real 
cleanliness  is  doubly  important  in 
summertime — not  only  from  the 
standpoint  of  good  breeding  but 
because  soap-cleanliness  in  itself 
is  refreshing. 

The  after-exercise  bath  should 
be  hot — because  hot  water  relaxes  muscles 
and  prevents  soreness.  Be  sure  the  muscles 
that  might  become  stiff  are  fully  submerged. 
These  "summer  specials"  are  just  three  of 
many  suggestions  contained  in  TTie  Book 
About  Baths.  Anyone  who  has  not  read  this 
interesting  booklet  will  be  surprised  to  learn 
how  much  the  right  baths  can  help. 
A  copy  is  yours  for  the  asking.  Free. 


j     CLEANLINESS  INSTITUTE, 
i      45  East  17th  Street,  New  York 
!      Please  send  me  free  of  all  co*t 

Dept.  NT. 
N.  Y. 
"The  Book  About 

1'7 
Bath 

-31    : 

a."      : 

i      Cilr 

.-.State 

-J 

i  I  2 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


'  I  have  found  that 
College  Inn  Tomato  Juice 
Cocktails  are  not  only 
a  refreshing;  drink,  but 
a  fine  health  tonic.  I  keep 
several  bottles  on  ice 
and  enjoy  a  modest 
tumbler  full  with  each 
meal." 

Sincerely, 

UNIVERSAL  STAR 

The  renowned 
Bracer  and 
Appetizer 


ON  SALE  AT 

DPUG    STOPES 

FOUNTAIN    GRILLS 

AND  ALL 

FOOD   SHOPS 


SS  M  =M  *  Hill 


U*EEU*niJM 


•mh  a  « i 


:/fiSMKa:i 


WANTED— Men  and  Women 

To  Represent  Large  Reputable  Firms  Who  Sell  Direct  to  Consumer 

LIBERAL  COMMISSIONS  OFFERED 


in  the 
Current 


Read  All  About  Their  Unusual  Offers 

Opportunity  Magazine  n 


On  Sale  at  All 
ewsstands 


-Publishers'  Address:  Dept.  PM7,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave.',  Chicago- 


ONE  DROP  ON 


CORNS 


PAIN   EASES   INSTANTLY 
CORNS  COME  OFF 

ONE  drop  of  this  amazing  liquid  and 
soon  any  corn  or  callus  shrivels  up 
and  loosens.  Peel  it  off  with  your  fingers 


like  dead  skin.  Don't  risk  dangerous 
paring.  Removes  the  whole  corn.  Acts 
instantly,  like  a  local  anaesthetic,  to  stop 
pain  while  it  works.  Doctors  approve  it. 
Satisfaction  guaranteed.  Works  alike 
on  any  corn  or  callus  —  old  or  new, 
hard  or  soft. 


U 


GETS-IT" 


World's 
Fastest  Way 


box-office  successes  have  that  glamor — Garbo 
Dietrich,  Crawford,  Bow.  They're  different 
from  the  home  town  girls. 

They  rise  and  fall.  They  wax  and  wane. 
Seena  Owen  is  a  beauty  and  a  good  actress. 
Her  last  chance  was  in  the  ill-fated  "Queen 
Kelly."  She  put  six  months  into  it,  and  the 
picture  was  never  released.  They  say  it  was 
the  best  work  of  her  career. 

On  the  other  hand,  there's  Eleanor  Board- 
man,  who  came  back  strong.  Her  name  on  the 
theater  means  something  now.  Lois  Wilson, 
too,  thought  to  be  a  back  number,  has  made  a 
hit  in  "Seed."  A  star  can  be  made  in  one 
picture,  but  a  succession  of  bad  ones  kills  her, 
and  the  answer  to  it  all  is  this: 

They'll  put  up  with  anything,  if  the  person- 
ality has  a  box-office  draw.  The  stars  shine 
and  grow  dim.  Alibis,  reasons,,  quarreling  back 
and  forth  between  producer  and  player — this 
all  means  nothing.  Box-office  is  the  guiding 
power. 


"Give  Arbuckle 
a  Chance!" 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  57  ] 


question  to  answer.  Have  we  a  democratic 
form  of  government,  or  haven't  we? 

Are  the  affairs  of  this  country  to  be  run  by 
the  people  or  by  organized  reform? 

The  courts  acquitted  Arbuckle — the  public 
wants  to  give  him  a  chance. 

Photoplay  would  like  to  see  an  issue  made 
on  the  subject.  It  is  up  to  some  producer  to 
put  Roscoe  Arbuckle's  name  on  the  screen  as  a 
writer  or  director. 

Then  let  us  see  if  the  relentless  moralists  and 
professional  reformers  would  have  the  audacity 
to  attempt  to  overrule  American  Fair  Play! 

Here  is  a  cross-section  of  letters 
from  the  motion  picture  public: 

"A  great  number  of  my  friends  join  me 
in  the  belief  that  a  speedy  return  of  '  Fatty ' 
to  the  screen  will  be  welcomed  by  the 
millions  of  people  who  have  laughed  with 
him  in  days  gone  by.  I  think  your  atti- 
tude towards  Arbuckle  in  this  matter  is 
most  commendable." 

George  F.  Zimmer, 
Secretary  Aeronautical  Section, 
New  York  Board  of  Trade.  Inc., 
New  York  City. 

"What  you  said  about  Roscoe  Arbuckle 
brought  back  the  days  when  Roscoe,  along 
with  Mabel  Normand  and  Mack  Sennett, 
gave  me  many  a  good  laugh.  I  have  al- 
ways been  for  him  and  still  am." 

Milton  Brennan, 

Casper,  Wyo. 

"With  the  greatest  pleasure  I  write  you 
with  reference  to  Roscoe  '  Fatty'  Arbuckle. 
The  comedy  portrayed  by  him  was  the 
cleanest  of  any  screen  star.  On  a  public 
vote  head  the  list  with  the  Heath  family 
of  three." 

Harry  B.  Heath, 
Bradley  Beach,  N.  J. 

"Did  'Fatty'  ever  give  me  a  laugh? 
Well,  I  will  say  not  only  one  but  a  million, 
and  .there  are  other  millions  of  laughs  in 
'Fatty's'  make-up  if  the  producers  will 
only  give  him  the  opportunity." 

L.  Carpenter, 
Solomon,  Md. 

"By  all  means  Arbuckle  ought  to  be 
given  another  chance.    Since  I  have  had  a 


adio — six  years — this  is  the  first  time  I 
lave  ever  responded  to  the  many  requests 
;o  write,  so  you  know  I  feel  very  strongly 
ibout  this  matter." 

I.  Semsker, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

"If  ever  a  person  was  punished — per- 
secuted— it  is  Roscoe  Arbuckle.  And  it  is 
tiigh  time  to  forget  and  give  him  a  chance." 
Mrs.  Grace  G.  Cruse, 

Spokane.  Wash. 

"Here  is  one  who  wants  to  see  'Fatty' 
Arbuckle's  name  in  electric  lights  again." 
Mrs.  Velma  Smith, 

Modesto,  Calif. 

"Why  don't  they  give  'Fatty'  Arbuckle 
a  break?  I  don't  believe  there  ever  was  or 
ever  will  be  a  better  comic." 

John  H.  Fielder, 
New  Haven,  Conn. 


See  Garbo  First 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  61  ] 

asidered  disguising  myself  as  a  horse  at 
irbo's  favorite  livery  stable,  but  was  turned 
wn  because  of  an  old  spavin  I  had  received 
ring  the  war. 

Night  after  night  Mother  and  I  sat  before 
;  camphre  back  of  Gary  Cooper's  house — 
inning,  planning,  planning.  Mother's  sciat- 
,  was  coming  back  on  her — -the  native  gin  of 
(llywood  was  beginning  to  cause  serious 
■slides  in  my  alimentary  canal. 
We  had  chased  Garbo  from  Agua  Caliente  to 
okane  and  all  we  had  caught  were  head-colds. 
We  inquired  at  the  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 
idio.  The  man  at  the  gate — a  cunning 
tive — played  dumb. 

"Garbo?  We're  just  out  of  Garbos,"  he 
;ered  with  his  black  face.  "Will  Eddie 
igent  do?" 

Then — I'll  never  forget  that  night! — -I  had  a 
don.  I  divvied  it  up  with  Mother.  Leaping 
xide  our  motorcycles,  we  roared  into  the 
rkness— our  destination  the  Garbo  castle  on 
rill  above  the  sea. 

We  shot  several  guards  named  Nils,  Sven 
d  Moscha.  We  poisoned  a  dog  or  two  with 
nned  shrimp.  More  dead  than  alive,  we 
ined  the  front  stoop.  Gripping  my  derringer 
mly,  while  Mother  drew  her  dirk,  I  pressed 
i  door-button.  The  portal  opened  slowly. 
tall,  rather  awkward  figure  stood  there.  It 
d  darkish  blonde  hair,  a  very  white  face  and 
.s  daintily  gnawing  a  piece  of  herring. 
"Are  you  Greta  Garbo?"  I  asked. 
"Yop!"  said  the  woman,  for  woman  it  was. 
le  door  closed. 

"HREE  months  later,  emaciated  and  pale, 
we  were  back  in  New  York.  Our  lecture  tour 
is  a  flop.  Nobody  believed  we  had  seen  Greta 
irbo.  Maybe  you  don't.  What  do  I  care? 
The  fact  remains  that  these  rheumy  old  eyes 
ve  seen  Greta  Garbo,  man's  supreme  experi- 
ce.  Since  then  I  have  climbed  the  Matter- 
rn,  but  it  doesn't  matter.  I  have  lived. 
So,  readers,  I  urge  you  to  abandon  the  idea 
that  Visit  to  Aunt  Floss',  this  summer.  If 
ere's  a  half-pint  of  red  blood  in  your  veins 
ke'The  Adventure  Trail.  If  mere  chicken 
nsomme  flows  sluggishly  through  your 
teries,  go  on  to  Niagara  Falls  and  like  it.  Go 
er  them  in  a  barrel  or  a  cracker-box.  /  don't 
re. 

But  if  you  are  of  the  stern,  keen-eyed,  joyous 
iff  of  which  heroes,  martyrs,  explorers  and 
ofessional  football  players  are  made,  take 
e  tangled,  steep  and  dangerous  trail  that 
ids  to  a  glimpse  of  Greta. 
See  Garbo  and  Die!  Oh,  go  on — you  will, 
ly  way ! 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931  I  13 

HER  TOES  GOT  WET  ONLY  IN  A 


SHOWER  BATH 


YET  SHE  CAUGHT 


M 


ATHLETE'S   FOOT 


99 


SHE  is  one  of  the  most 
particular  people  in  the 
world — so  fastidious,  in  fact, 
that  on  her  outing  lo  the 
beach  she  wouldn't  go  in 
the  water.  Because  too  much 
debris  bubbled  in  the  surf, 
she  wet  her  feet  only  on  the 
tile  floor  of  a  shower  bath. 

Strange  to  say,  she  would 
have  been  safer  in  the  ocean 
than  prancing  on  the  spot- 
less floor  of  that  shower. 
Like  almost  every  moist 
surface,  it  was  infested  with 
germs  of  "Athlete's  Foot"  — 
invisible  to  her  eyes,  but 
highly  contagious  to  her 
dainty  toes. 

At  first  she  noticed  a 
moist,  unwholesome  white 
patch  of  skin  between  her 
toes.  Neglected,  this  com- 
mon symptom*  of  "Ath- 
lete's Foot"  began  to  itch 
and  spread.  The  skin  blis- 
tered—  turned  red,  cracked, 
and  then  painfully  peeled — 
just  becauseshe  didn't  know 
this  annoying  infection 
might  cause  real  trouble. 

Are  YOU  guarding  against  this 

stealthy   infection   now 

attacking  millions? 

"Athlete's  Foot"  may  attack  any  of  us*, 
no  matter  where  we  are,  regardless  of  what 
we  do.  You  can  catch  it  in  the  very  places 
people  go  for  cleanliness — on  the  spotless 
tile  floors  of  shower  baths,  on  the  edges  of 
swimming  pools,  on  locker-  and  dressing- 
room  floors — any  place  where  bare  feet 
touch  the  floor.  It  is  an  infection  caused  by 
a  tiny  vegetable  parasite  called  tinea  tri- 
chophyton, which  is  so  hardy  that  stockings 
must  be  boiled  fifteen  minutes  to  kill  it. 
Nothing  but  constant  care  can  keep  it 
from  coming  back — even  when  you  have 
rid  yourself  of  an  attack. 

Watch  for  these  distress  signals 
that  warn  of  "Athlete's  Foot" 

Though  "Athlete's  Foot"  is  caused  hy  the  germ — tinea 
trichophyton — its  early  stages  manifest  themselves  in 
eeveral  different  ways,  usually  between  the  toes — 
sometimes  hy  redness,  sometimes  hy  skin-cracks,  often 
by  tiny  itching  blisters.  The  skin  may  turn  white, 
thick  and  moist  or  it  may  develop  dryness  with  little 
scales.  Any  one  of  these  calls  for  immediate  treatment! 
If  the  case  appears  aggravated  and  does  not  readily 
yield  toAbsorbineJr.,  consult  your  doctor  without  delay. 


It  has  been  found  that  Absorbine  Jr. 
KILLS  this  ringworm  germ 

"Athlete's  Foot"  may  start  in  a  number  of 
different  ways.  Sometimes  the  danger  signal 
is  redness  between  the  toes;  sometimes  tiny, 
itching  blisters.  Again,  the  skin  may  turn 
white,  thick  and  moist;  or  it  may  develop 
dryness,  with  little  scales  or  skin-cracks. 
All  of  these  conditions,  it  is  agreed,  arc 
generally  caused  by  the  ringworm  germ. 
And  exhaustive  laboratory  tests  have  shown 
that  Absorbine  Jr.  penetrates  fleshlike  tis- 
sues deeply  and  wherever  it  penetrates,  it 
kills  this  germ.  Results  in  actual  cases  con- 
firm these  laboratory  tests. 

Examine  YOUR  feet  tonight 

It  might  not  be  a  bad  idea  to  examine  your 
feet  tonight  for  symptoms  of  "Athlete's 
Foot."  At  the  first  sign  of  any  one  symptom, 
begin  the  free  use  of  Absorbine  Jr. — douse 
it  on  morning  and  night  and  after  every  ex- 
posure of  your  bare  feet  on  damp  floors.  If 
the  case  does  not  readily  yield  see  your 
doctor. 

Absorbine  Jr.  has  been  so  effective  that 
substitutes  are  sometimes  offered.  Don't 
expect  relief  from  a  "just  as  good."  There 
is  nothing  else  like  Absorbine  Jr.  You  can 
get  it  at  all  drug  stores  —  S1.25  a  bottle. 
For  a  free  sample,  write  ^  .  F.  Young,  Inc., 
476  Lyman  Street,  Springfield,  Mass.  In 
Canada,  Lyman  Bldg.,  Montreal. 


I  14 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


ylasij  steps  to 


e)h 


Instant 

oveuness 


'hade  your  upper  eyelids  with  Maybelline 
Eye  Shadow — see  how  much  more  "expres- 
sion" comes  into  your  eyes  that  very  instant! 

Then  . . .  darken  your  lashes  with  Maybelline 
Eyelash  Darkener.  Instantly  they  will  appear 
longer  and  beautifully  luxuriant  . .  .  and  your 
eyes  will  appear  largerand  more  brilliant.  Select 
Solid  or  Waterproof  Liquid  Maybelline  Eyelash 
Darkener;  either  form  in  Black  or  Brown — 75c. 

Finish  . .  .  with  Maybelline  Eyebrow  Pencil. 
It's  the  new,  indestructible  type  .  . .  clean  and 
easy  to  handle.   Choose  Black  or  Brown — 35c. 

When  purchasing  Maybelline  Eye  Shadow, 
select  Blue  for  blue  and  gray  eyes;  Brown  for 
hazel  and  brown  eyes ;  Black  for  dark  brown  and 
violet  eyes.  Green  ^*d$&  maybelline  co. 
maybeusedforall 
colors  and  is  espe- 
cially effective  for 
evening 
wear,    e 

.  1        ll*^  *m  m  ^r  v«'  products  and  you 

Any  col-    ^?Allx^^^     *£&%82i. 

Qr 75C         ^-*£^L-^^  SjF^5r  toilet  Goods  counters. 


EYELASH 
SHADOW 


DARKENER 
EYEBROW 


EYE   SHADOW         EYEBROW   PENCIL 

Instant  Beautifiers  for  the  Eues 


Photoplay's 
Annual  Picture 
Puzzle  Contest 

MONEY  FOR  YOU! 

$5,000 

A  simple  puzzle  con' 
test — open  to  everyone. 

Turn  to  page  62  of  this 

issue   for   conditions   of 

contest. 


CASH 
PRIZES 


Jimmy  From  the  "Jungle" 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  49  ] 


Jimmy  and  his  brothers  went  to  school,  and 
after  grade  school  they  went  to  high  school — 
and  then  to  college.  They  worked,  too,  to  help 
support  the  family,  while  they  were  learning. 
And  today,  two  of  Jimmy's  brothers  are 
doctors,  and  one  is  an  advertising  expert. 

Jimmy's  own  idea  was  to  become  an  artist — 
but  not  the  sort  of  artist  he  turned  out  to  be. 
He  wanted  to  be  an  artist  of  the  brush  and 
pallclk,  not  of  the  stage  or  screen.  He  went 
through  this  sort  of  sequence  of  jobs — office 
boy  on  the  New  York  Sun,  bundle  wrapper  at 
Wanamaker's,  public  library  branch  custodian. 
That  paid  him  seventeen  dollars  a  month,  but 
gave  him  time  for  school.  He  entered  Co- 
lumbia University.  But  family  finances  be- 
came bothersome,  and  Jimmy  had  to  earn 
more  money.     He  was  the  second  eldest. 

On  the  biographical  questionnaire  he  filled 
out  for  the  Warner  publicity  staff  in  Holly- 
wood, there's  a  question:  How  did  you  come  to 
take  up  stage  or  screen  work? 

Jimmy's  pencil-scrawled  answer  reads: 

"Needed  job." 

ONE  of  his  friends  was  a  chorus  boy.  Jimmy 
had  his  own  ideas  on  the  subject — but  he 
also  realized  that  the  chorus  boy  was  getting 
better  than  the  seventeen  dollars  a  month 
Jimmy  was  being  paid.  So  when  the  pinch 
came  in  Jimmy's  sophomore  year  at  college, 
and  the  chorus  boy  told  Jimmy  that  they 
needed  some  dancers  in  a  show  called  "Pitter 
Patter,"  Jimmy  took  a  chance.  He  applied  for 
a  job.  His  friend  had  taught  him  a  few  tap 
steps. 
He  got  in  a  line  of  about  forty  other  ap- 


plicants and  watched  what  they  did.  Then  h 
imitated  them.  Believe  it  or  not,  he  got  awa; 
with  it — and  got  a  job  in  the  chorus.  He' 
liable  to  double  up  his  fist  if  you  remind  hir 
of  it. 

Jimmy  was  nineteen  then.  Years  of  bein, 
just  another  hoofer — in  musical  shows  and  i 
vaudeville  followed.  Sometimes  he  got  as  hig. 
as  thirty-five  dollars  a  week.  Most  of  it  we ■• 
to  help  support  the  folks  at  home,  including  a 
idolized  baby  sister.  He  had  enough  left  ove 
to  get  married.  His  marital  partner  was  a  gii 
he  met  in  an  act.  They're  living  in  a  Holly 
wood  bungalow  now.    They  have  no  children 

AFTER  five  years  of  small-time  acting,  hi 
break  came.  He  got  a  tryout  in  a  tough 
guy  role.  He  wanted  the  job  badly.  When  h 
got  the  chance  to  read  the  lines  to  the  directoi 
he  put  everything  he  had  in  it — and  on  top  o 
that,  he  put  the  accumulated  knowledge  of  hi 
Tenth  Avenue  upbringing.  He  got  the  job.  H 
honestly  thinks  it  was  all  luck.  "Aw,  I  got  i 
because  I  had  red  hair,"  he  says. 

His  work  in  that  role — and  in  other  hard-eg; 
roles  that  followed — won  him  critics'  recogni 
tion.  The  step  from  that  to  the  screen 
nothing  unusual — it's  the  same  story  that' 
been  told  so  often  of  the  stage  actor  going  t< 
the  talkies. 

Warners  sent  him  to  the  Coast  to  play  ii 
"Sinners'  Holiday,"  on  three  weeks'  guarante 
only.  After  he  had  played  the  openinj 
sequences,  they  gave  him  a  year's  contract 
"The  Doorway  to  Hell"  was  the  seconi 
picture  he  made,  bringing  him  a  five-year  con 
tract  with  option. 


• 


.«#r**~ 


Many  a  hope  has  been  pinned  on  this  tree.  It  is  a  tall  palm  tree  on  the 
Universal  lot,  known  as  the  "Wishing  Tree."  The  story  has  it  that  Valen- 
tino stuck  a  pin  in  it  and  wished  for  success — the  superstition  has  held  and 
the  tree  trunk  is  studded  with  pins  of  all  sorts  and  sizes  placed  there  by 
aspiring  young  souls.  Lucile  Browne,  appearing  in  the  Universal  serial, 
"Danger  Island,"  makes  her  wish 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


"5 


And  so  there's  Jimmy  Cagney  today  in 
Hollywood — rive  feet,  eight  and  a  half,  red- 
haired,  Irish  as  a  shamrock,  talking  Yiddish, 
sort  of  cynical  about  the  whole  business. 

He  gives  you  the  impression  that  whatever 
he  does  in  and  out  of  Hollywood,  he's  doing  it 
with  his  tongue  in  his  cheek.  He's  not  thrilled 
by  film  fame  coming  suddenly  as  it  has.  "All 
a  lotta  luck,"  he  says,  half  grinning,  half 
sneering. 

He  doesn't  pal  with  the  movie  crowd.  He 
has  his  own  circle  of  friends — most  of  them 
connected  with  pictures,  but  not  of  that  silk- 
and-ermine  clan  that  call  themselves  "the" 
people  of  the  movies.  He  likes  to  go  down  to 
the  beach  on  his  days  off — the  beach  where  the 
common  people  go — not  Malibu  where  the 
stars  fence  themselves  in. 

JIMMY  doesn't  know  how  long  he's  going  to 
ride  the  crest  of  popular  fancy  on  the  screen. 
He  doesn't  seem  to  care  a  great  deal.  "It's  all 
a  lotta  so-and-so,"  he  says,  only  he  sometimes 
uses  other  words.  His  big  ambition,  he  says, 
is  to  make  enough  money  so  he  can  get  out  of 
the  limelight  and  take  life  easy,  being  just 
Jimmy  Cagney — and  drawing  pictures.  He 
has  stuck  to  that.  It's  his  hobby — making 
sketches  of  people  and  things. 

His  other  hobby  is  hoofing.  He  breaks  into 
a  tap  dance  at  the  slightest  provocation.  He 
is  one  of  Hollywood's  happy  husbands;  says  he 
thinks  domesticity  is  "swell."  He  likes  to  go 
to  prize-fights,  and  he  likes  to  read  good  books. 
He  isn't  getting  one-tenth  the  salary  most  of 
the  recognized  stars  are  getting. 

But  out  of  what  salary  he  does  get,  Jimmy 
Cagney  is  still  contributing  his  share  to  the 
support  of  the  folks  back  home. 


How  to  Adapt  Screen 

Modes  to  Fit  Your 

Personality 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  33  1 


Yet  Gloria  has  twelve  street  costumes  which 
are  exactly  alike!  They  are  tailored  suits  made 
by  a  London  shop  for  her.  During  her  first 
trip  abroad,  she  helped  to  design  this  outfit. 
They  are  created  to  the  Swanson  size  and 
Swanson  figure.  Since  that  first  day,  she  has 
been  ordering  them  in  every  color,  but  from  the 
one,  original  design. 

"One  always  looks  right  in  tailored  things. 
If  I  am  shopping  and  must  stop  for  a  luncheon, 
I  am  properly  dressed.  If  there  is  a  tea  in  the 
afternoon,  I  am  still  properly  dressed.  If  there 
is  a  business  appointment— -don't  you  see  how 
I  save  money?  I  have  worn  the  same  suit  for 
years  and  yet  no  one  knows  the  difference. 
Since  it  fits  me,  it  is  always  in  style.  And  I 
don't  have  to  pay  so  much  to  have  copies  made 
as  I  would  for  new  creations. 

"  TT  is  the  personal  attention  to  a  style  which 
J-makes  private-life  dressing  effective.  As 
for  the  screen — it  is  a  double,  no  a  triple  anxiety 
and  a  far  more  difficult  art. 

"The  creator  for  the  drawing-room  has  ma- 
terial, color  and  lines  at  his  disposal. 

"The  creator  for  the  screen  has  only  lines. 

"  When  you  see  a  dress  on  the  screen,  you  see 
it  for  two  minutes  at  most.  Two  long-shots, 
perhaps,  and  the  rest  in  close-ups  where  only 
part  of  it  shows.  You  may  have  the  most 
exquisite  and  most  expensive  material,  yet  the 
effect  is  lost.  Remember,  there  is  action  to 
counteract  the  dress.  Only  the  lines  of  a  gown 
catch  the  eye  and  those  lines  must  be  ex- 
aggerated if  they  are  going  to  catch  the  eye. 

"Suppose  you  wear  a  new  dinner  gown  in 
private  life.  You  sit  at  the  table  for  two  hours. 
Every  one  at  the  table  has  a  chance  to  study 
that  part  of  the  gown  which  shows  (like  a  close- 


9L  01 


c-nt  ti  i 


L'tihli-    and 


ZJ nexpe-itsive      U/ay,    to 

ELIMINATE 

SHINE 

FROM 

NECK  and  ARMS 


/vfter  a  Link  Beauty  Bath  there  is  left  on  the 
skin  an  even,  invisible  "coating"  of  Linit  which  makes  the  usu* 
ally  heavy  whiteners  unnecessary  .This  Linit  is  absolutely  harmless 
...and  absorbs  perspiration  WITHOUT  CLOGGING  THE  PORES ! 

Merely  dissolve  half  a  package  or  more  of  Linit  in  your 
tub,  bathe  in  the  usual  way  using  your  favorite  soap— 
and  then  feel  your  skin!  ft  will  be  soft  and  smooth  as 
velvet,   as   well  as  perfect  in  elasticity  and  suppleness. 

Starch  from  corn  is  the  main  ingredient  of  Linit.  Being  a  vege= 
table  product,  Linit  contains  no  mineral  properties  to  irritate  the 
skin.  In  fact  the  quality  and  purity  of  starch  from  corn  are 
regarded  so  highly  by  doctors  that  they  recommend  it  for  the 
tender  and  supersensitive  skin  of  young  babies     »»»»»» 


is    sold    by  your    Grocer 

"tefic    ha-ihiVatf.    to    a    snfi, 
smooth    auliv 


n6 


Simpler,   Quicker,   Safer 
than   Shaving! 

Spread  creamy  X-Bazin  over  your  legs  and 

under  arms.    With   beautiful  certainty  it 

destroys    the    hair   swiftly,  completely  — 

avoiding  the  blue,  shaved  look  of  the  razor. 

X-Bazin  leaves  your  skin  white,  smooth 

and  hair-free— and  discourages  re-growth. 

Order  good  old  reliable  X-Bazin  today  at  drug  or 
department  stores  —  50c  a  large  tube;  10c  for 
sample  tubes  at  five-and-ten  cent  stores. 

X-Bazin  also  comes  in  powder  form. 

Hall  &  Ruckel,  Inc.      Est.  1848      Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Freckles 

VANISH    LIKE    MAGIC 


T5EMOVE  those  embarrassing  freckles. 
■"  Surprise  your  friends  with  a  new 
velvety  soft,  crystal  clear  complexion. 
You  can  —  with  Stillman's  Freckle 
Cream.  It  bleaches  them  out  while 
you  sleep.  Done  so  quickly  and  easily 
— secretly  too.  The  first  jar  proves  its 
magic   worth.     At  all   drug  Btores. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

up  in  pictures)  for  that  length  of  time.  Then, 
when  you  rise  and  move  to  the  drawing-room, 
they  see  the  dress  as  a  whole  (the  long-shot). 
They  feel  the  color,  notice  the  material  and 
know  whether  the  lines  are  good  or  bad. 

"But  in  pictures,  an  entire  evening  of  im- 
pressions has  to  be  given  in  a  few  shots;  often 
in  a  few  seconds  in  front  of  the  camera. 

"I  was  criticized  for  changing  a  black  velvet 
which  I  had  bought  from  a  famous  house  for 
'What  a  Widow.'"  She  smiled.  "I  had  to 
take  that  negligee  off  before  the  camera.  Do 
you  think  you  would  have  enjoyed  seeing  me 
struggle  to  pull  it  over  my  head?  I  slit  it  down 
the  side  so  I  could  open  it  easily — to  fit  the 
action  of  the  picture. 

"  'But  slip-on  gowns  are  in  vogue!'  the  ex- 
pert designers  cry. 

"Now,  just  what  difference  does  it  make 
whether  slip-on  dresses  are  in  style  or  not!  You 
can't  wear  slip-on  dresses  for  the  screen  when 
you  have  to  remove  them  before  the  camera. 
What  would  happen  to  your  hair,  your  make- 
up? 

IN  'Indiscreet'  I  wore  a  coat  with  tight 
sleeves.  I  had  to  remove  the  coat.  We 
spoiled  one  scene  after  another  because  I 
couldn't  remove  that  coat  gracefully  with  those 
tight  sleeves.  We  fixed  the  sleeves.  We 
couldn't  leave  out  the  action.  Grace  was  es- 
sential. The  loose  sleeves  may  not  be  so  stylish, 
but  we  couldn't  help  that. 

"Again  and  again,  we  photograph  materials 
before  we  make  a  gown  from  them.  Why? 
Our  materials  must  harmonize  with  the  action. 
If  we  wish  the  action  to  stand  out — the  dress 
must  not  be  so  striking  that  it  competes  with 
the  action;  draws  away  the  audience-attention. 
If  we  want  the  gown  to  stand  out,  we  must  be 
certain  the  material  photographs  to  the  best 
advantage. 

"We  could  not  find  the  proper  material  for 
one  gown  in  'What  a  Widow.'  We  wanted  a 
linoleum-block  effect.  We  finally  bought  a 
plain  material  and  had  an  art  class  stencil  the 
proper  design  upon  it.  They  used  something 
which  came  off.  My  arms  were  tattooed  with 
the  black  and  blue  of  the  design.  That 
wouldn't  have  done  for  a  personal  gown,  but  it 
was  all  right  for  the  picture." 

Even  underclothes  have  to  be  created  with 
an  eye  to  camera  astuteness.  The  least  bulge 
in  the  wrong  place  stands  out  as  though  there 
were  a  boil  on  the  actress's  figure. 

Gloria  wore  a  gown  in  "The  Love  of  Sunya" 
into  which  she  was  sewed  each  time  she  wore  it. 
It  was  literally  molded  and  re-molded  upon 
her.  She  tried  various  forms  of  undies,  but 
found  that  there  were  none  which  did  not  show 
ridges  under  the  microscopic  eye  of  the  camera. 
So  she  wore  nothing  beneath  it. 

"I  wouldn't  have  done  that  for  the  drawing- 
room.  It  wouldn't  have  been  necessary.  The 
naked  eye  would  not  have  noticed  the  faint  line 
beneath  the  garment. 

"Hats!  Feathers  on  the  side  may  be  fashion- 
able, but  supposing  there  is  a  profile  shot.  The 


St ill m 

Freckle  C 

Removes   Freck 


FREE 

_       ne*tfl  Aurora,  III..  U.  S.  A. 

II  o  OOK^tl  ■  82   Beauty     Dept..    send    free 

^^^^^^  booklet.    Tells    why    you    have 

■^^^^^^  freckles — how  to  remove  them. 

I       Miss,     Mr. 
or  Mrs 

Address 


feather  would  block  off  your  features.  Styles 
for  the  screen  often  have  to  be  a  bit  different 
from  styles  for  the  street. 

"  But  above  all — actresses  are  not  manikins 
displaying  gowns.  The  gowns  are  to  display 
actresses.  A  manikin  shows  off  the  gown.  A 
gown,  on  the  screen,  shows  off  the  actress. 

"And  a  gown  must  show  off  the  specific 
actress  who  is  wearing  it.  Norma  Shearer — 
Greta  Garbo.  Gowns  which  fit  their  person- 
alities, which  fit  the  action  of  their  pictures; 
which  stand  out  or  retreat  according  to  the 
demands  of  that  action.  And  gowns  which  can 
do  all  this  despite  the  loss  of  the  value  of  color 
and  material. 

"For  example,  I  must  emphasize  height; 
Greta  Garbo  probably  tries  to  detract  from 
height.  I  do  not  like  straight  lines  for  the  screen 
or  for  my  personal  gowns.  All  my  dresses,  on  the 
screen  or  off,  are  a  bit  longer  in  the  back  than 
in  the  front.  The  waistlines,  the  same.  Down 
a  bit  in  the  back.  On  me,  this  line  is  more 
graceful.  What  if  it  isn't  the  mode?  If  I  look 
better,  taller,  that  is  the  answer." 

We  asked  her  about  keeping  ahead  of  styles 
for  the  screen.  A  picture  is  made  from  three 
months  to  a  year  before  it  is  released.  Women's 
clothes  are  likely  to  change. 

"Ah,  there  is  the  difficulty  for  all  of  us. 
Sometimes  I  think  one  person's  guess  is  as  good 
as  another.  I  saw  'The  Trespasser'  the  other 
night.    It  is  old-fashioned  only  in  the  clothes. 

"When  I  was  getting  ready  to  make  the 
clothes,  I  wrote  to  Rene  Hubert,  who  is  now  at 
M-G-M,  but  who  was  then  in  Germany.  I 
asked  him  what  would  be  correct  by  the  time 
of  my  release  date. 

"He  sent  me  sketches  which  would  be  cor- 
rect today.  He  was  one  year  ahead  of  the 
release  date.  But  his  sketches  were  so  different 
from  the  styles  then,  that  I  didn't  dare  use 
them.  I  made  the  clothes  about  half-way  be- 
tween the  styles  of  that  day  and  the  styles  of 
his  sketches.  Fortunately,  they  were  all  right. 
But  any  designer  has  to  take  a  gamble  on  that 
problem." 

We  also  asked  Gloria  about  the  advisability 
of  women  copying  clothes  which  they  see  on 
the  screen. 

"  /^\UR  clothes  are  exaggerated  for  camera 
^-'purposes.  But  a  woman  can  take  a  gown 
from  a  picture  and  follow  the  general  idea. 
Then,  in  her  fittings,  she  can  change  it  here 
and  there — to  fit  her  personality  and  the  oc- 
casion on  which  she  must  wear  it.  She  should 
do  that  whether  she  takes  her  general  design 
from  the  screen  or  a  fashion  magazip.e.  If  you 
are  clothes-conscious,  it  is  just  as  easy  to  copy 
screen  gowns  as  any  other." 

"Would  you  be  willing  to  have  Chanel  de- 
sign gowns  for  the  pictures  you  will  make  on 
your  contract  for  United  Artist?  " 

She  hesitated.  "I  would  prefer  not  to  have 
her  experiment  on  me  first.  After  all,  I  have 
spent  twelve  years  learning  about  clothes  for 
the  screen.  This  is  no  reflection  on  Chanel. 
She  has  simply  not  had  the  training." 


The  Prince  of  Fans 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  48 


Prince  of  Wales  has  a  penchant  for  travel  films 
and  rarely  misses  a  good  one.  The  Duke  of 
York  is  in  favor  of  romance  and  is  credited  with 
a  private  predilection  for  Nancy  Carroll,  which 
is  not  altogether  surprising,  considering  how 
much  her  screen  nature — though  not  her  ap- 
pearance— resembles  that  of  the  Duchess. 
Prince  George  inclines  towards  comedy  and 
Prince  Henry  to  action  drama. 

All  find  common  ground  in  their  admiration 
of  the  popular  artists  of  the  screen,  of  Chaplin, 
Garboj  Chatterton,  Jannings,  Chevalier  and 
Mickey  Mouse. 

The  Princes'  visits  to  English  film  studios  are 


much  rarer  than  their  attendance  at  London 
cinemas.  This  is  not  because  the  Royal  Family 
is  too  high-hat  to  display  polite  interest  in  film 
personalities  but  because  of  the  advantage 
which  is  taken  of  their  visits  to  start  a  ballyhoo. 

Put  the  Princes  down  in  Hollywood,  how- 
ever, and — well! 

Hol'yvvood  is  six  thousand  miles  away  from 
mother,  father  and  the  grand-motherly  British 
press. 

Nevertheless,  the  recent  advertising  of  "  Ex- 
travagance," which  asserts  of  June  Collyer 
that  "the  girl  who  turned  Royalty's  head  will 
turn  yours,"  and  is  a  scarcely  veiled  reference 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


II7 


to  Prince  George's  visit  to  Hollywood,  is  hardly 
justified. 

It  is  true  that  the  Prince  (who,  on  his  arrival 
at  the  Film  City  may  be  said  to  have  behaved 
in  unroyal  ways  his  mamma  wouldn't  like)  was 
very  much  photographed  with  Miss  Collyer. 
But  the  real  object  of  his  private  interest  is  best 
suggested  by  an  incident  which  nearly  ruptured 
diplomatic  relations  between  Pickfair  and  St. 
James's  Palace. 

TT  happened  at  the  reception  given  by  Holly- 
-*-wood's  royalty,  King  Doug  and  Queen  Mary. 
The  affair  was  very  "white  kid  glove"  and 
about  this  Chaplin  is  said  to  have  whispered 
words  of  sympathy  in  the  Princely  ear.  Where- 
upon they  both  slipped  out  and  spent  the  rest 
of  the  evening  incognito  and  sub  rosa. 

Gloria  Swanson  was  one  of  the  ladies  in  the 
party. 

In  England  the  idea  of  a  member  of  the 
Royal  Family  taking  more  than  an  academic 
and  impersonal  interest  in  a  film  actress  is  un- 
thinkable. 

Nevertheless,  there  is,  even  in  England,  a 
small  skeleton  in  the  royal  cupboard — happily 
several  times  removed. 

Sh!  whisper  it!  A  certain  duke  is  the  con- 
stant and  devoted  companion  of  an  English 
star  of  the  stage  and  screen.  Let  us  call  her 
Genevieve. 

The  friendship — one  must  be  euphemistic — 
went  to  the  young  lady's  head. 

Her  regal  airs  became  irksome  to  her  former 
friends. 

One  evening  at  a  Mayfair  party  Ivor  No- 
vello,  English  matinee  idol,  now  making  a  pic- 
ture in  Hollywood,  leaned  towards  the  Duke's 
newest  girl  friend  and  audibly  intoned: 

"Remember,  Genevieve,  you're  only  a 
duchess  in  your  own  wrong." 


Seymour  says  we  have  to  give  this 
fashion  tip  to  you  vacationing  ladies. 
The  black  and  white  tweed  suit,  worn 
by  Fay  Wray,  is  one  of  the  season's 
best  with  its  soft  tailoring  and  dashing 
white  accents.  The  gray  and  blue 
striped  bags  are  good  travelers.  Note 
the  bulky,  flared  white  gloves  —  very 
new  and  decidedly  smart 


It's  NEW.  .  It's  PATENTED  .  . 
It  can  never  lose  its  SHAPE! 

M1  insingwear  "Waterwear 

Y  H* 


Permanent  perfect  fit  at  last. . . 
assured  by  a  patented  feature 
of  design  that  no  other  suit  can 
give  you! 

Here  is  the  Swim -Suit  that  Mun- 
singwear  makes.  Good  looking! 
And  it  "fits  forever! " 

There  is  a  patented  elastic  skirt- 
hem  .  .  .  absolutely  exclusive  with 


Munsingwear  .  .  .  which  holds  the 
skirt  in  place  and  in  shape  always. 
An  elastic  leg-hem  makes  the  trunks 
fit  like  a  glove,  yet  without  a  trace  of 
binding. 

And  in  the  Sun-Top  Swim-Suit  for 
women,  an  elastic  bodice-hem  keeps 
the  suit  up  when  the  shoulder  straps 
are  down.  No  bothersome  buttons. 
And  no  streaks  on  your  coat  of  tan. 

Munsingwear  Swim -Suits  make 
you  feel  like  a  million  dollars,  and 
look  it  too!  Their  colors  put  rainbows 
to  shame.  Their  designs  are  unusual. 
No  other  suit  can  give  you  their  pat- 
ented feature  of  fit.  A  store  near 
you  sells  Munsingwear  Waterwear. 
MUNSINGWEAR,    MINNEAPOLIS 

MUNSING 
W^OeW 

WATERWEAR 

CAN   NEVER   LOSE   ITS  SHAPE! 


n8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


TRY  TO  GUESS 
THESE  EYES! 


This  darling  of  the  New  York  stage,  who  is  now 
appearing  in  Universal  Pictures9  sensation 
"Seed,"  is  5  ft,  Zl/i  in.  tall,  weighs  105  lbs.,  and 
has  reddish  gold  hair  and  green  eyes.  See  below*. 

so  soothing  to 
golfers'  eyes! 

Or,  for  that  matter,  to  the  eyes  of 
any  one  who  spends  much  time 
out  of  doors.  Always  apply  Murine 
immediately  after  prolonged  ex- 
posure to  sun,  wind  and  dust  to 
end  that  heavy,  burning  feeling 
and  to  prevent  a  bloodshot  con- 
dition. Formula  of  a  veteran  eye 
specialist,  this  soothing,  cool- 
ing lotion  is  used  regularly  by 
millions  for  the  quick  relief 
of  eye  irritation  and  strain. 
At  all  drug  and  dept.  stores. 

*Genevieve  Tobin 

60  Applications  Cost  Only  60c! 


Why  eyes  linger  on 
her  Blonde  Hair 

SUCH  irresistible  golden  radiance !  No  wonder 
men  look  and  look!  That  always  happens 
when  girls  use  Blondex.  This  special  shampoo 
makes  blonde  hair  sparkle  with  new  beauty, 
new  gleam  and  lustre!  Prevents  darkening — 
safely  brings  back  natural  golden  color  to  dull, 
faded  light  hair.  Not  a  dye.  No  harmful  chemi- 
cals. Fine  for  scalp.  A  Blondex  blonde  is  always 
in  demand.  At  all  drug  and  department  stores. 


WM.  DAVIS.  M.  D. 


Wales 

How  to  banish  them 

A  simple,  safe  home  treat- 
ment— 16  years'  success  in  my 
practice.  Moles  (also  Big 
Growths)  dry  up  and  drop 
off.  Write  for  free  Booklet. 
124-D  Grove  Ave,  Woodbridge,  N.  J. 


Rules  of  $2,000  Story  Contest 

See  Pages  70-7 1 


1.  Stories  must  be  submitted  in  typewrit- 
ing. They  can  be  from  1,000  to  5,000  words  in 
length,  but  must  not  exceed  5,000  words.  All 
stories  should  be  written  on  one  side  of  the 
sheets  of  paper  and  mailed  in  a  postpaid 
envelope  to: 

Judges,  Photoplay  Magazine-Warner  Bros. 

Story  Contest,  221  West  57th  Street, 

New  York  City. 

2.  Stories  should  not  be  submitted  before 
May  15th,  and  the  Contest  will  close  at  mid- 
night on  July  15th. 

3.  Stories  will  be  read,  prior  to  award  of 
prizes,  only  by  the  Judges  of  the  Contest  and 
persons  employed  by  them  for  that  purpose. 
The  Judges  of  the  Contest  will  submit  such 
stories  to  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  the 
Judges  deem  suitable  for  picture  purposes.  No 
stories  will  be  returned  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
Contest.  They  may  at  the  option  of  Photo- 
play Magazine  be  destroyed  or  kept  on  file. 

4.  Every  story  must  be  signed  with  the  full 
name  of  the  person  submitting  the  same  and 
must  be  accompanied  by  the  form  or  a  copy  of 
the  form  which  appears  on  this  page,  per- 
sonally signed  by  the  contestant,  together  with 
his  or  her  full  address,  in  which  the  contestant 
agrees  to  the  conditions  set  forth  therein  and 
herein.  These  rules  and  the  form  should  be 
read  carefully  by  contestants  before  submis- 
sion. 

5.  Everyone,  whether  a  subscriber  or 
reader  of  Photoplay  Magazine  or  not,  may 
enter  this  Contest,  except  persons  in  any  way 
connected  with  Photoplay  Magazine  or  War- 
ner Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  their  relatives  or  mem- 
bers of  their  households,  or  anyone  actively 
employed  in  the  production  department  of  any 
other  motion-picture  company. 

6.  The  Board  of  Judges  shall  consist  of 
three  persons  to  be  chosen  by  the  Editor  of 
Photoplay  Magazine.  The  decision  of  the 
Judges  shall  be  final. 

7.  The  winner  of  the  Contest  shall  receive 
§2,000  in  cash.  In  case  of  a  tie  equal  prizes  of 
$2,000  each  shall  be  awarded  to  each  tying 
contestant. 

8.  It  is  the  desire  of  Warner  Bros.  Pictures, 
Inc.,  to  secure  as  many  original  stories  suited 
for  dramatic  purposes  as  is  possible.  It  is  un- 
derstood that  the  Editor  of  Photoplay  Maga- 
zine or  the  Judges  of  this  Contest  will  submit 
to  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  such  stories  in 
addition  to  the  one  selected  as  winner  of  the 
prize  as  they  or  any  of  them  deem  suited  for 
dramatic  purposes.  It  is  understood  that 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  pay  an  equal 
prize  of  $2,000  for  each  such  story,  if  any,  as  is 
so  submitted  to  and  approved  by  it  and  used 
by  it  for  the  production  of  a  motion  picture 
based  wholly  upon  such  story. 

9.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  will  donate 
the  prize  or  prizes  which  Photoplay  Magazine 


will  pay  for  the  winning  story  and  for  such  ad- 
ditional stories,  if  any,  as  may  be  selected  by 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  hereinabove 
mentioned.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  will 
be  entitled  to  full  and  complete  rights  of  every 
nature  for  any  and  all  purposes  throughout  the 
world  in  and  to  all  winning  stories  as  well 
as  to  use  the  name  of  any  successful  contestant 
in  connection  therewith.  Warner  Bros.  Pic- 
tures, Inc.,  may  use  any  winning  story  in  whole 
or  in  part,  alter  the  same,  change  the  title,  and 
require  the  execution  of  any  papers  by  any 
successful  contestant  which  it  deems  necessary 
or  expedient. 

10.  There  is  always  danger  that  contestants 
become  so  convinced  of  the  merit  or  originality 
of  their  own  stories  or  ideas  that  they  are  sus- 
picious when  they  see  something  approximat- 
ing theirs  which  may  come  from  another 
source.  To  avoid  all  questions  of  this  sort  or 
of  any  other  character  whatsoever,  all  con- 
testants must  submit  and  will  be  deemed  to 
have  submitted  their  story  or  stories  and  ideas 
upon  the  distinct  agreement  and  understanding 
that  neither  Photoplay  Magazine  nor  Warner 
Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  be  liable  in  any  way 
save  to  pay  such  prize  or  prizes  as  may  be 
awarded  and  that  said  Photoplay  Magazine 
and  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  are  released 
from  any  and  all  liability  for  any  cause  or  rea- 
son by  each  contestant. 

11.  Every  effort  will  be  made  by  the  Editor 
of  Photoplay  Magazine  and  the  Judges  to 
make  this  Contest  as  fair  and  open  as  possible 
and  to  conduct  it  in  strict  accordance  with  the 
Rules  of  the  Contest.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures, 
Inc.,  will  simply  donate  the  prize  or  prizes  and 
will  be  under  no  obligation  either  legal  or  moral 
to  do  anything  except  to  donate  the  same. 

12.  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  shall  not  be 
bound  to  use  any  of  the  stories  even  if  they 
win  prizes  and  shall  not  be  bound  to  produce  a 
motion  picture  from  the  prize  winning  story  or 
any  story  that  may  be  selected  and  paid  for  by 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  as  aforesaid.  All 
copyrightable  matter  and  all  rights  therein,  in- 
cluding the  copyright  and  the  right  to  secure 
and  renew  the  same,  shall  be  the  property  of 
Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc. 

13.  Stories  expressed  in  exactly  the  same 
language  or  slight  variations  of  the  same  lan- 
guage, which  would  seem  to  indicate  collusion 
between  different  individuals,  shall  not  be  sub- 
mitted although  any  one  person  may  submit 
stories  based  upon  the  same  central  ideas  but 
having  different  treatments. 

14.  No  profane,  immoral,  libelous  or  copy- 
righted matter  shall  be  submitted. 

15.  While  facility  of  writing  and  style  of  ex- 
pression are  not  necessary  to  the  winning  of 
the  prize,  the  clearness  and  specific  quality  of 
the  story  or  idea  will  be  considered. 

16.  Any  single  individual  may  submit  any 
number  of  stories. 


IMPORTANT 


This  Coupon  or  copy  of  this  Coupon 
must  accompany  each  story 


In  submitting  the  accompanying  story  as  a  con- 
testant for  the  cash  prize  offered  by  Photoplay 
Magazine,  I  agree  to  all  of  the  terms  and  conditions 
contained  in  the  "Rules  of  the  Contest"  as  pub- 
lished in  said  magazine,  which  terms  and  conditions 
I  acknowledge  I  have  read,  and  in  consideration  of 
the  conduct  of  said  Contest  and  of  my  story  being 
examined  and  considered  in  said  Contest,  I  hereby 
release  said  Photoplay  Magazine,  Photoplay 
Publishing  Co.  and  Warner  Bros.  Pictures,  Inc., 
from  any  and  all  claims  or  liability,  present  or 
future,  by  reason  of  any  use  or  asserted  use  thereof, 
in  whole  or  in  part,  in  any  form  or  manner,  by  either 
of  them,  except  from  payment  of  a  prize  if  awarded 
to  me. 

I  state  that  this  story  is  wholly  original  with  me. 


I  hereby  grant  and  assign  this  story  and  all  of 
my  rights  of  every  nature  therein  throughout  the 
world  to  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co.  and  War- 
ner Bros.  Pictures,  Inc.,  together  with  the  exclu- 
sive right  to  use  same  in  any  form  or  manner,  and 
the  right  to  adapt,  add  to  or  subtract  therefrom, 
without  any  compensation  to  me  or  my  legal  repre- 
sentatives, save  for  a  prize  of  $2,000  if  such  prize 
is  awarded  to  me,  pursuant  to  the  "Rules  of  the 
Contest." 


.L.S. 


Address 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


II9 


The  Audience   Speaks    Its   Mind 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  15 


Who's  Right? 

Elissa  Landi  is  much  better   with    Charles 
Farrell  than  Janet  Gaynor.    She's  not  nearly  so 
childish.    Let's  see  more  of  them  together. 
Mary  Haley, 
Natchez,  Miss. 

Charlie  Farrell  can't  even  act  without  Janet 
Gaynor  playing  opposite  him.  Perhaps  some 
day  they'll  both  realize  what  made  them  lose 
their  popularity. 

Katherine  Smith, 
Summerville,  S.  C. 

Figuratively  Speaking 

Jean  Harlow  has  spoiled  two  perfectly  good 
pictures  for  me  by  her  nakedness.  How  does 
she  pass  the  censors?  No  decent  woman,  if  she 
portrays  a  wanton,  needs  such  an  exposure  of 
skin  as  Jean  Harlow  presents. 

Mrs.  C.  Fitter, 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

No  More  Screen  Lovers 

Why  are  our  greatest  screen  lovers  allowed 
to  play  comedy  or  character  roles?  Colman 
and  Barrymore  are  fast  becoming  degraded  as 
evidenced  by  their  recent  pictures.  In  fact,  all 
movie  actors  are  alike  to  me.  Wouldn't  it  bum 
you  up  if  our  lovely  Garbo  broke  out  in  slap- 
stick comedy?  Yet  there  is  just  as  much  sense 
in  that  as  there  is  in  Colman  and  Barrymore 


playing  light  comedy  or  the  late  Lon  Chancy 
roles. 

Mrs.  C.  S.  Anderson, 
Kelso,  Wash. 

More  Restraint 

True,  pictures  must  deal  with  reality,  with 
the  seamy  side  of  life,  but  can't  they  be  made 
with  some  restraint?  I'm  sick  of  scenes  of  un- 
believable brutality;  of  drunken,  dishevelled 
men  and  women;  of  law  and  right  scoffed  at; 
of  faithless  wives  and  more  faithless  husbands 
pictured  as  most  attractive  persons  possessing 
all  things  to  be  desired,  including  happiness;  of 
suave  and  charming  crooks  and  gangsters  and 
the  glorifying  of  bootleggers. 

C.  L.  Weaver, 
Van  Buren,  Ark. 

Sex  or  Sleuthing? 

Why  don't  the  film  magnates  give  us  more 
detective  stories?  I  doubt  if  there  is  anyone 
who  doesn't  enjoy  them — kids,  young  people 
and  grown-ups  alike.  Let's  decrease  the  "sex" 
and  increase  the  "sleuthing." 

George  P.  Thompson,  Jr., 
New  Orleans,  La. 

Dumb  or  Dialogue? 

The  talkies  are  wonderful,  but  oh,  for  a  few 
good  silent  pictures.  What  a  soul-satisfying 
feeling  to  enter  a  theater  and  be  able  to  relax 


and  not  strain  forward  to  catch  every  word. 
Mrs.  Harriett  Mills, 
Chippewa  Falls,  Wis. 

To  my  way  of  thinking  the  non-dialogue 
picture  stands  just  about  the  same  chance 
against  the  up-and-coming  Talkies  as  a  horse 
and  buggy  has  of  passing  the  modern  motor 
car. 

Herman  J.  Merry, 
Vancouver,  Wash. 

I  am  a  movie  fan,  and  yet,  it  is  more  than 
five  years  since  I  saw  a  movie.    I  am  an  invalid. 

Those  who  have  never  been  "shut-ins"  can 
hardly  realize  what  PHOTOPLAY  means  to  us. 
We  meet  the  new  stars  and  see  photographs  of 
our  old  favorites.  We  keep  up  with  the  latest 
fashions.  The  reviews  of  pictures  are  a  score 
or  more  novels  in  miniature.  I  would  have 
missed  the  movies  terribly  had  it  not  been  for 
Photoplay. 

Lillian  C.  Telander, 
Mora,  Minn. 

Public  speakers  whose  favorite  subject  is 
"Motion  Picture  Gang  Stories  and  Their 
Harmful  Influence"  usually  know  less  of  what 
they  speak  than  the  average  movie-goer.  Be- 
cause of  their  dislike  for  such  types  of  pictures 
they  stay  away  from  them  and  miss  the  fine 
value  of  the  lesson  taught — the  penalty  of 
crime! 

Ninabel  Rankin, 

Tarkio,  Mo. 


MAKES     THE     NEXT 

Greater  smoke  pleasure  .  .  .  everyone  wants 
it.  And  here's  the  way  to  have  it — with 
your  favorite  smoke.  Keep  your  mouth  moist 
and  cool  with  Beech-Nut  Gum.  There's  no 
gum  quite  so  good  in  flavor  and  smoothness. 


Also  in 

Sptarmint  and 
Wintergreen  flavors 


Made  by  the  makers  of 
Beech-Nut  Fruit  Drops  and  Mints — 

In  the  United  States  and  Canada. 


I  20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


. .  .Yours  if  you  gently  cleanse  the  pores 
morning  and  night  with  Krank  Lemon 
Cleansing  Cream  .  .  .  liquefies  instantly 
. . .  penetrates  deeply . . .  dissolves  impuri- 
ties . . .  cleanses  thoroughly.  Unexcelled 
at  any  price.  4  oz.  jar,  one  dollar  .  .  . 
Follow  with  Krank  Astringent  Lotion,  so 
delightful  for  firming  the  skin  ...  Mentho- 
Lemon  Foundation  Cream,  the  perfect 
powder  base . . .  and  the  softer,  smoother, 
clinging   Poudre   Krank...  5  shades. 

Send   50c  in   stamps   for    lovely   3-piece 
Acquaintance    Set    and    new    Beauty 
Book,  "Captivating  Loveliness."  Write 
Dept.      90,      Krank   Toiletries,     J885 
UniVersity  Avenue,  Saint  Paul,  Minn. 

fCinK  (cleansing) 

lirlOTI  CIH6AM 

PRETTY  ANKLES  $J./Jf 
anx>  CALVES' 


pefpaxf 


DR.    WALTER'S    Special    extra 
strong  Ankle  Bands  of  live  flesh 
colored  Para  Rubber  will  support 
and  shape  the  ankle  and  calf  while 
reducingthem.  Theyfitlikeaglove. 
Can   be  worn  under  hose.     Relieve 
swelling  and    varicose   veins.     You 
can  note  the  difference  In  shape  of 
ankle  at  once.    Can  be  worn  at 
night  and  reduce  while  you  sleep, 
or  during  the  day  deriving  the  ex- 
tra benefit  of  the  support.    Send 
Ankle  and  Calf  Measure. 

Write  for  Dr.  Walter's  Special 
Ankle  Bands  for  $3.76.  Pay  by 
check  or  money  order  (no  cash)  or 
pay  postman. 

Wrilt  for  booklet 

DR.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER 
389  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 


$5,000  Contest  Now  On! 
SUBSCRIBE  FOR 

PHOTOPLAY 

Subscription  rates   will   be 

found  on  page  125.  Use  the 

convenient  coupon. 


»*& 


Make  money  taking  pictures.  Photo. 
graphs  in  big  demand.  Commercial 
Photography  also  pays  big  money. 
Learn  quickly  at  home  in  sP&re  time. 
No  experience  necessary.  Write  today 
for  new  free  book.  Opportunities  in 
Modern  Photography.  American 
School  ol  Photography,  Dept.  125-B 
3601  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago. 


Clara's  Microphone  Fright 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  31 


had  learned  that  this  terrific  fear  was  the  root 
of  the  pre-picture  nervous  trouble  and  per- 
suaded Rex  Bell  to  bring  her.  She  arrived 
Friday  night — slept  late  Saturday  morning. 
The  wardrobe  department  went  to  Clara  at  her 
home  Saturday  afternoon  for  fittings. 

Sunday  morning  she  felt  fine.  She  was  much 
excited  and  said,  "At  last  everything  is  all 
right;  I  am  going  to  make  a  good  picture."  She 
sent  for  a  manicurist  and  hairdresser  to  get  her 
ready  for  the  first  rehearsal,  scheduled  for 
Sunday  afternoon. 

THE  newspapers  have  printed  that  this  re- 
hearsal was  at  the  studio.  It  wasn't.  It  was 
at  her  home.  Stuart  Walker  came  there  to 
make  it  easier  for  Clara.  It  was  merely  a 
rehearsal  between  director  and  star.  No  cast 
present. 

Rex  Bell  and  an  unprofessional  boy  friend 
sat  in  the  living-room  while  Clara  said  her  lines 
to  Mr.  Walker  in  the  dining-room.  They 
laughed  frequently  at  the  emotion  Clara  put 
into  her  reading.  When  Mr.  Walker  left,  all  of 
them  went  to  the  door  with  him. 

Clara  retired.  "I  am  tired.  I  must  be  at 
the  studio  at  nine  in  the  morning." 

Some  thirty  minutes  later  she  came  out,  in 
dressing-robe,  sobbing.  "  I  can't  go  on  with 
that  picture.  Oh,  poor  Stuart  Walker.  I  can't 
go  on — "  Her  sobs  increased  by  the  moments. 
The  housekeeper  was  awakened.  She  said,  "I 
surely  thought  someone  must  be  beating  her." 
When  neither  the  housekeeper  nor  Rex  could 
quiet  her,  they  sent  for  the  doctor. 

The  doctor  was  alone  with  Clara  for  a  long 
time.    He  advised  a  sanitarium  and  complete 


rest — immediately.  Rex  Bell  drove  Clara  to 
Glendale.  All  the  way  over,  she  kept  crying, 
"Oh,  poor  Stuart  Walker.  He  wanted  me  in 
his  picture  and  now  I  can't  do  it." 

Rex  suggested  that  Clara  go  to  the  studio 
daytimes  and  return  to  the  sanitarium  for  the 
nights,  so  complete  rest  and  proper  care  would 
be  guaranteed  her.  But  whenever  the  studio 
was  suggested,  Clara  went  into  further 
hysterics.  And  the  moment  Peggy  Shannon 
was  announced  as  the  new  star  of  the  produc- 
tion— Clara  began  to  recover.  I  went  over 
with  Rex  to  see  her  five  days  after  she  had 
entered  the  sanitarium.  She  had  color  in  her 
cheeks;  fire  in  her  eyes;  she  smiled  brightly. 
She  talked  of  being  able  to  be  moved  back  to 
the  ranch  shortly. 

She  is  selling  her  home  and  all  the  furnish- 
ings. She  has  dismissed  the  maid  who  was  at 
the  studio  with  her  for  five  years.  That  nearly 
broke  her  heart.  "But  if  I  am  not  going  to 
make  pictures,  I  must  retrench,"  she  said. 

Her  servants,  with  the  exception  of  the 
housekeeper,  have  already  been  dismissed. 

SHE  is  planning  to  build  a  home  for  herself  on 
Mr.  Bell's  Nevada  ranch — she  has  begged 
permission  to  do  this  because  she  wants  a  resi- 
dence for  herself  and  housekeeper  separate  from 
the  place  which  domiciles  the  foreman  and  his 
wife.  And  she  loves  the  quiet — the  broad  open 
spaces  of  Nevada.  She  also  appreciates  the 
friendship  of  the  curly-haired,  straight-eyed 
young  man  who  has  stood  by  her  side  like  the 
knight  errants  of  old,  the  one  person  who  has 
never  tried  to  capitalize  upon  her. 

There  was  a  delay  in  recording  her  income 


No  wonder  Clara  Bow  likes  to  go  to  Rex  Bell's  ranch  rather  than  work 
in  the  studio,  where  she  is  in  living  fear  of  the  microphone 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


I  2  I 


tax  report,  due  to  the  De  Voe  trial.  An  ex- 
emption claim  for  $100,000  is  made,  of  which 
nearly  850,000  is  for  embezzlement,  with  Miss 
De  Voe  named  as  embezzler.  Mr.  Bell  says  he 
feels  certain  they  can  prove  that  amount.  "I 
only  wish  we  could  prove  all  the  rest!" 

Clara  is  now  being  sued  for  sixty  dollars  by  a 
small  Beverly  Hills  service  station  for  four 
tires  which  were  put  on  Miss  De  Voe's  mother's 
car.  Clara  claims  she  knew  nothing  of  it — 
through  Rex,  who  is  representing  her  in  court. 
The  service  man  says  he  was  accustomed  to 
honoring  Miss  De  Voe's  purchases  as  an  agent 
for  Clara!    There  are  other  such  suits  pending. 

I  HAVE  told  this  story  in  a  simple  manner  be- 
cause it  is  a  simple  story.  I  have  known 
Clara  Bow  well  for  four  years.  She  is  the 
victim  of  the  most  highly  emotional  nature  it 
has  been  my  fortune  to  contact — and  in  Holly- 
wood, the  home  of  emotional  natures,  we  con- 
tact many.  I  believe  she  made  as  much  money 
at  the  box-office  as  any  star  in  Hollywood  and 
probably  the  most  over  her  entire  period  as  a 
star. 

I  have  said  this  is  not  a  plea  for  sympathy. 
I  stick  to  my  premise.  There  is  no  use  in 
reminding  you  that  she  has  no  mother;  I  agree 
with  you  that  the  studio  might  have  provided 
her  with  a  mother,  as  Universal  has  provided 
one  for  Sidney  Fox — a  cultured,  human  English 
sponsor.  If  Paramount  had  studied  that  nature 
of  Clara's,  tuned  to  the  point  of  breaking  at 
even  the  most  inconsequential  moments,  they 
would  undoubtedly  have  done  it. 

But  it  is  not  the  duty  of  studios  to  raise  their 
children;  merely  to  exploit  them.  And  that 
was  long  ago — a  chaperon  would  have  been 
considered  a  gross  extravagance.  If  they  could 
have  seen  down  the  years  ahead — but  who  of 
us  can  look  into  the  future? 

As  to  the  attacks  upon  her  morals.  I  repeat 
I  have  known  her  well.  I  have  even  known  her 
girl  friends,  her  boy  friends.  Much  which  has 
been  written  simply  couldn't  have  happened. 
It  wasn't  possible  by  the  laws  of  nature  for  it 
to  happen. 

And  the  retirement — for  upon  that  Clara 
Bow  is  insisting — of  one  of  the  most  interesting 
stars  of  all  times,  has  another  little  story  with 
it.  Sylvia  Sidney  was  made  a  star  through 
Clara's  microphone  fright;  Ben  Schulberg 
expects  "The  Secret  Call"  to  do  the  same 
thing  for  Peggy  Shannon. 

BOTH  girls  were  chosen  from  the  New  York 
stage  by  Mr.  Schulberg;  Clara  Bow  was  his 
protege,  also.  Paramount  has  paid  Clara  her 
$5,000  a  week  without  interruption  throughout 
this  trouble.  I  believe  that  this  executive  who 
brought  her  to  fame  and  is  now  doing  every- 
thing in  his  power  to  keep  her  in  that  fame,  is 
largely  responsible.  If  Sylvia  and  Peggy  make 
as  much  money  for  Paramount  as  did  his  first 
foundling,  I  am  certain  he  will  do  the  same  for 
them  if  adversity  overtakes  them  later. 


Don't  Worry! 

If  you  missed  the  first  set  of 
Puzzle  Pictures  in  last  month's 
PHOTOPLAY,  you  can  still  start 
now  and  win  some  of  the  $5,000 
prize  money! 

You  can  have  June's  Puzzle 
Pictures  free,  together  with  the 
rules,  by  sending  a  postcard  re- 
quest to 

The  Picture  Puzzle  Contest, 

Photoplay  Magazine, 

919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago.  111. 


Now  Simple  To  Really 

Get  Rid  of 

Arm  and  Leg  Hair 

Utterly  Without  the  Problem  of  Coarsened  Re-growth 


By  a  total  tack  of  stubble,  you  can  feel  the  dif- 
ference between  this  and  old  ways. 


A  Discovery  That  is  Proving  to  the 
Wonder  of  the  Cosmetic  World  That 
Hair  Can  Not  Only  Be  Removed  In- 
stantly, But  Its  Reappearance  Delayed 
Amazingly. 

A  way  of  removing  arm  and  leg  hair  has 
been  found  that  not  only  removes  every  ves- 
tige of  hair  instantly,  but  that  banishes  the 
stimulated  hair  growth  thousands  of  women 
are  charging  to  less  modern  ways.  A  way 
that  not  only  removes  hair,  but  delays  its 
reappearance  remarkably. 

It  is  changing  previous  conceptions  of  cos- 
meticians about  hair  removing.  Women  are 
flocking  to  its  use.  The  creation  of  a  noted 
laboratory,  it  is  different  from  any  other 
hair  remover  known. 

What  It  Is 

It  is  an  exquisite  toilet  creme  resembling  a 
superior  beauty  clay  in  texture.  You  sim- 


Not  only  is  slightest  fear  of  coarsened  re-growth 

banished  but  actual  reappearance  of  hair  is 

slowed  amazingly. 

ply  spread  it  on  where  hair  is  to  be  removed. 
Then  rinse  off  with  water. 

That  is  all.  Every  vestige  of  hair  is  gone; 
so  completely  that%even  by  running  your 
hand  across  the  skin  not  the  slightest  trace 
of  stubble  can  be  felt.  And— the  reappear- 
ance of  that  hair  is  delayed  surprisingly! 

When  re-growth  finally  does  come,  it  is 
utterly  unlike  the  re-growth  following  old 
ways.  You  can  feel  the  difference.  No  sharp 
stubble.   No  coarsened  growth. 

The  skin,  too,  is  left  soft  as  a  child's.  No 
skin  roughness,  no  enlarged  pores.  You  feel 
freer  than  probably  ever  before  in  your  life 
of  annoying  hair  growth. 

Where  To  Obtain 

It  is  called  Neet— and  is  on  sale  at  all  drug 
and  department  stores  and  beauty  parlors. 
Costs  only  a  few  cents.  Z83A 

Nppf      Cream 
L  v    L     Hair    Remover 


FOR  YOUR  SKIN 


TRY 


LABLACHE 

Face    Po  wd  e  r 

You  will  love  its  delicacy;  its  clinging -ness;  its  perfume. 

FOR     OVER     TWENTY     YEARS 
Readers   of    Photoplay    have   recog- 
nized its  accepted  standard  of   quality 

Send  for  FREE  simplcto  Ben  Leu  Co  .  125  Kindlon  St .  Boston. Miss 


3i 


9£ 

.Madison 

rilffilr-:     Overlooking  Ocean  at  Illinois    lie. 

Ug     ATLANTIC  CITY.  N.  J. 

59  Sprlnft  Is  In  the  air — Summer '5  In  the 
-^-  ofBnfi!  For  the  better  enjoyment  of 
these  seasons  come  to  The  MADISON  .  .  .  where 
modern  service  and  comforts  give  a  new,  trueluiury 
to  rest  and  play. 

Attractive  Rates  on  American  ana  Euro- 
pean Plans.     Eugene  <"■  Keller.  Mng.  I>ir. 

FETTER      &      HOLLINGER,      INC. 


I  22 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

Possibly,  Clara  will  decide  to  make  "Man- 
handled." Possibly,  she  will  be  forced  by 
fright  to  retire  again.  If  so,  there  is  a  chance 
for  a  third  star  to  be  made  by  Clara  on  the 
Paramount  roster.    And  if  she  makes  a  series 


FAIR- EST 

The  Natural  Cosmetics 

Millions  pay  hom- 
age to  Sue  Carol, 
screen  star  .  .  , 
one   of  the 
Fairest   of 
the  Fair. 


CREATED/wHOLLyWOOD 
the  FAIREST  of  the  FAIR 

t  as  the  fair  women  of  Hollywood 
in  the  applause  of  the  nation,  you 
30  can  attract  admiration  with  the 
subtle,  fragrant  allure  of  Fair-est. 
Face- Powder,  Perfume,  Lip- 
sticlc,Rouge,BathSdlts,Dust- 
ing Powder-all  dealers. 


THE    FAIR-EST    COMPANY 

HOLLYWOOD 


SHAPE** 
rorNOSE 


Anita  Nose  Adjuster 
shapes  flesh  and  car- 
tilage—quickly, safely, 
painlessly,  while  you 
sleep  or  work.  Lasting 
results.  Doctors  praise 
it.  Gold  Medal  Winner. 
87,000  users.  Write 
for  FREE  BOOKLET. 
ANITA  INSTITUTE,  G  28,  Anita  Bldg.,  Newark,  N.  J. 


30  DAYS 

HOME   TRIAL 


FOOT  TROUBLES 

ended  quickly  with  safe,  soothing,  cooling 
Cal-O-Cide.  Relieves  sore,  tender,  swollen, 
burning  aching  feet  in  one  minute.  Draws 
pain  and  inflammation  right  out.  Walk, 
run,  dance  in  comfort.  Wear  shoes  you  like. 
Guaranteed.  35c  at  all  druggists.  Send 
postcard  for  free  book  "Care  of  Feet." 
Medco  Co.,  Dept,  L-7,  Dayton,  Ohio 


Calocide  foot  remedy 


mo  j  aw  mi 


in  your  own  home.  Simple  easy  method 
successful  28  years.  No  medicine,  no  grease, 
nothing  to  wipe  off.  Results  where  needed- 
Arms,  Legs,  Neck,  Bosom,  ANY  part.  Send 
10c  for  Full  Information  and  a  Big  Four  Dram 
Box  (note  the  size)  of  my  PEERLESS  WONDER 
CREAM,  the  original  All  in-one  Cream,  Remember 
10c.  NOT  50c.  Wrao  coin  or  send  stamDs.  but  do 
it  now.       MADAME  WILLIAMS,  CLK-4,  BUFFALO,  N.  Y. 


iene?fH?H°ElTKeatre 

ibjects  for  pergonal  development  —  Stage,  Teach. 

Stage  and   Concert   Dancing,  Vocal.  Screen,  Mil- 

,  Stock    Theatre  and  platform   appearances  whilt 

talog   10  apply   P.  Ely,  Sec',,  66  w    85th  St.,  N.  V. 


of  stars  who  become  big  box-office,  she  will 
have  repaid  in  full  monetary  value  her  $5,000 
a  week  given  her  now  while  she  is  not  working. 
A  simple  story  and  a  true  one.  The  latter  is 
what  makes  it  important. 


Charlie  Has  to  Fight! 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  30  ] 


Farrell,  wrenched  from  the  side  of  little 
Janet,  and  strictly  on  his  own,  is  in  such  a 
position.  By  all  the  laws  of  geometry, 
astrology  and  torts,  Charlie  is  just  the  fair- 
haired  laddie-boy  to  be  used  as  a  ballyhoo 
while  feminine  star-material  drinks  most  of  the 
spotlight  in  the  Main  Tent. 

And  I  submit  that,  for  a  young  gent  with  his 
way  to  make,  this  is  neither  hotsy  nor  totsy. 
Ever  hear  of  the  case  of  one  Gary  Cooper,  one 
Marlene  Dietrich  and  one  picture  called 
"Morocco"?  As  we  Swedes  say,  it's  the  meme 
chose. 

These    things,    friends,    are    what    Charlie 


Farrell  faces  as  he  plunges  into  work  in  New 
Hollywood,  P.  M.  (Post-Microphone). 

Charlie  with  his  good  looks,  his  youth,  his 
pretty  and  ever-loving  wife  and  his  stellar 
rating  on  the  old  Fox  ranch. 

Never  did  a  kid  take  his  picture  work  more 
seriously — never  was  one  more  willing  to  slave 
like  a  dock-walloper  to  sock  it  over.  And  there 
isn't  a  pleasanter  lad  in  the  world  than  this 
same. 

And  Farrell  is  in  a  tough  spot,  make  no  mis- 
take about  this.  Three  ringing  hopes  (and  a 
roaring  Bengal  tigah !)  that  he  rolls  up  the  spot 
and  uses  it  for  target  practice  in  his  back  yard ! 


The  Other  Side  of  the  Sunrise 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  36  ] 


in  the  sink,  she  unwrapped  the  beefsteak. 
The  gentleman  stood  with  his  hands  in  white 
flannel  pockets,  watching  her  steadily. 

"The  laugh,"  he  remarked,  "is  probably 
that  I  thought  you  might  fall  in  love  with  me." 

Beside  the  sink,  hung  a  blue  gingham  apron, 
which  Miss  Marquette  brought  down  and  tied 
over  her  sequins  and  satin. 

"No,  I  wouldn't  care  to  fall  in  love  with 
you,  thanks  just  the  same,"  she  told  him,  and 
buttoned  the  blue  gingham  straps  over  bare 
shoulders. 

IN  her  incongruous  glitter  and  gingham,  she 
surveyed   him   retrospectively. 

"Haven't  I  seen  you  before?"  she  asked,  her 
hands  in  the  gingham  pockets.  "Didn't  you 
want  to  marry  me  once  before  at  somebody's 
beach  party  or  something?" 

"You  have  a  memory  for  detail,"  he  said,  a 
ripple  of  amusement  playing  across  his  eyes. 
"I  told  you  for  an  hour  once,  at  the  Cassa  del 
Mar,  that  I'd  been  insane  about  you  for  three 
years,  ever  since  I  saw  you  play  the  Marchion- 
ess in  'Lord  of  London,'  and  the  little  Vir- 
ginian in  'Swanee'  and  the  dancer  in  'Heaven 
and  Hell.'  But  you  didn't  marry  me,  if  you 
recall,  so  I'm  forced  to  bring  the  subject  up 
again." 

Miss  Marquette  rested  her  elbows  on  the 
ledge  of  a  green  stepladder. 

"Fate's  damn  funny,"  she  said,  and  laughed 
a  little  tiredly.  "Three  years  ago  I  was  the 
great  American  exhibit,  a  girl  in  Hollywood 
with  a  steady  job.  The  public  believed  I  was 
Lady  Whiffenpoof,  if  the  picture  said  so,  or 
Little  Eva  or  Joan  of  Arc  or  anybody  else. 
But  how  the  talkies  can  slay  you  is  nobody's 
business!  I've  sung  the  bye-bye  blues  to 
every  dollar  I  had,  trying  to  educate  my 
bronchial  tubes,  but  all  they  sound  like  on  the 
screen  is  a  ballyhoo  for  peanuts!  And  after 
the  racket  I  had  this  morning  with  the  redhead 
that  stole  my  only  solo  gesture  in  'Rose  of 
Grand  Street,'  I  guess  I'm  entirely  de  Irop. 
They  wouldn't  pay  me,  so  I  kept  the  wardrobe. 
I've  got  to  have  something  to  trade  for  soup 
and  fish." 

The  gentleman  arranged   his   boutonniere. 

"As  a  matter  of  convenience,"  he  remarked, 
"why  not  accept  my  proposal?" 

She  turned  abruptly  to  the  sink;  made  her- 
self suddenly  very  busy  extracting  unwashed 
dishes  from  under  the  roses. 


"Mr.  So-and-So,"  she  told  him  shortly, 
"you  don't  want  to  marry  me  any  more  than 
Man  o'  War  wants  roller-skates!  What  you 
sound  like  to  me  is  a  ballad  singer  that's  got 
the  habit!" 

"Parden  me,"  he  said,  "but  your  train  is 
caught  in  the  ice-box." 

He  released  it  and  piled  it  into  her  arms. 

"I  have  a  few  million  dollars  if  that  would 
make  any  difference,"  he  suggested. 

She  looked  up  at  him,  close  to  him,  her 
arms  full  of  the  shimmering  satin.  In  spite  of 
ammonia  blondness  and  flaming  lips,  she  was 
really  delicately  beautiful;  an  intriguing 
slenderness,  hauntingly  lovely  eyes  of  a  dusky 
lavender  (judging  from  the  undecorated  one) 
in  which  lay  that  rare,  translucent  quality  of 
distance. 

Over  their  heads  a  china  clock  whammed 
against  the  wall.  Outside  the  window,  the 
shrill,  dusty  drone  of  locusts  came  out  of  the 
grass. 

"Now  I'll  give  you  a  song  and  dance,"  she 
said.  "A  few  million  wouldn't  make  any 
difference,  nor  a  few  billion  wouldn't!  Be- 
cause I'm  in  love  with  somebody  else.  In  this 
dizzy  business  it's  a  safe  bet  that  every  blonde 
you  see  is  brunette  and  curly  hair  is  a  per- 
manent, and  the  New  York  sky-line  is  card- 
board and  the  Alps  are  made  of  salt,  and  if 
they  spotlight  you  today  they  will  forget  you 
tomorrow.  But  one  thing  that's  not  going  to 
be  phony  for  me,  not  even  in  Hollywood,  is 
love!     So  get  that  straight!" 

HE  looked  squarely  down  at  her.  His  eyes 
were  not  careless  now. 
"Oddly  enough,"  he  said,  "love  means 
just  that  much  to  me.  A  year  ago,  I  told  you 
I  loved  you,  and  I  meant  it.  I  stepped  aside, 
because  you  said  there  was  some  one  else. 
But  no  one  else  has  come  to  take  you,  and  I 
still  want  you.  I've  loved  you  enough  to 
wait  and  to  hope  for  you,  and  I  went  to  the 
studio  this  morning  to  tell  you  so.  I  didn't 
find  you  there  but  by  luck — or  by  Fate — I 
found  you  anyway.  And  I'll  tell  you  again 
that  I  want  to  give  you  my  love  and  my  name 
and  my  money.  I  want  to  take  you  with  me 
to  Cairo — and  to  Paris  and  to  Vienna  and  to 
Italy — and  anywhere  you  want  to  go.  I  want 
to  give  you  everything  you  want.  I  want  to 
give  you  everything  you've  ever  dreamed  of. 
I  want  to  give  you — " 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


I  2 


Rouged,  pink-tipped  fingers  reached  up 
and  caught  his  coat  lapels. 

"Listen,"  she  said,  "let's  cut  the  comedy. 
Let's  make  a  cup  of  coffee  and  a  steak  sand- 
wich and  go  into  conference!" 


A  S  long  ago  as  the  triangle  of  Adam  and 
■**-Eve  and  the  serpent,  thwarted  Paradise 
seems  to  have  fallen  into  a  figure  of  three 
points,  though  after  all,  the  denouement 
over  the  luncheon  of  Mr.  So-and-So  and  Carlie 
Marquette,  could  scarcely  have  been  called  a 
triangle,  since  no  two  of  its  corners  came  to- 
gether. 

Mr.  So-and-So  loved  Carlie.  Carlie  loved 
Jarod  Sarvis,  and  Jarod  Sarvis,  as  the  whole 
world  knew,  loved  no  one  at  all! 

Carlie  looked  away  out  of  the  window  at 
the  lavender  hills,  with  their  scarlet  and  jade- 
green  roofs,  like  rosettes  pinned  on  velvet. 

"If  he  was  broke  I'd  slave  for  him,"  she 
sighed.  "If  he  was  blue  I'd  cry  with  him! 
Ever  since  that  first  day  I  saw  him,  he  could 
have  worn  me  for  ear-laps!  He's  all  in  the 
world  I  want!  He's  all  I  think  about!  I 
dream  myself  to  sleep  every  night  pretending 
he  cares  for  me!  I  never  thought  any  one 
could  be  such  a  fool  about  love.  I  always 
thought  anybody  could  just  laugh  at  it  and 
forget  it.  But  the  Chicago  fire  was  Eskimo 
pie  compared  to  what  Love's  done  to  me. 

"I  guess  I'm  funny.  Nowadays,  Love 
doesn't  mean  much  to  anybody,  so  why  should 
it  to  me!  But  it  does.  And  when  I  love  him 
like  I  do,  I  can't  pretend  I  don't.  And  I  can't 
pretend  I  could  love  anybody  else — because 
I  couldn't.  I  don't  mean  one-two-three  to 
him  now,  but  there  might  come  a  time  when 
things  would  be  different  and  so  I'm  going  to 
wait.     That's  all. 

"I  guess  the  ideas  I've  got  about  love  sound 
like  I  think  I'm  Einstein,  but  love  seems  to  me 
like  sunrise;  a  great,  big,  gold  horizon  that 
starts  everything  over!  I'm  willing  to  admit 
I  kid  myself  along  about  every  other  kind  of 
dream  I  have,  but  I  don't  think  I'm  wrong 
about  love.  If  life's  got  any  sunrise  at  all, 
that's  it!" 

Abruptly  she  brought  a  vanity  case  out  of 
her  apron  pocket,  and  in  its  tiny  mirror  shaped 
her  lips. 

"And  I  should  call  you  a  ballad  singer!" 
she  said. 

The  gentleman  across  the  table  had  watched 
her  as  though  she  might  have  been  a  page  of 
psychology;  that  careless,  amused  something  in 
his  eyes,  and  yet  something  much  deeper,  for 
which,  after  all,  the  amusement  was  only  a 
disguise. 

"So  you're  going  to  wait  for  Jarod  Sarvis," 
he  said — "and  I'm  going  to  wait  for  you!" 

Carlie  Marquette,  who  had  been  that 
serenely  lovely  marchioness  in  "Lord  of 
London,"  that  proud  little  Virginian  in 
"Swanee,"  that  exotically  vivid  dancer  in 
"Heaven  and  Hell,"  Carlie  Marquette  put  her 
hands  down  in  her  gingham  pockets  and 
smiled  a  wise  little  hard-boiled  smile. 

"There's  a  cheap  and  popular  commodity 
known  as  bologna,"  she  said,  "and  I  have  an 
idea  you're  treating  me  to  quite  a  lot  of  it! 
Even  if  I  wasn't  in  love  with  somebody  else, 
I've  lived  long  enough  to  know  that  a  man 
who  does  what  he  pleases  like  you  do,  and 
goes  where  he  pleases  and  tosses  up  a  couple 
of  million  for  anything  he  wants,  isn't  coming 
out  in  his  Isotta  Eraschini  to  see  a  girl  on  a 
corner  and  lasso  her  with  orange  blossoms!" 

CHE  rested  her  elbow  on  the  window  ledge, 
^tucked  her  chin  in  her  hand,  and  surveyed 
him  coolly;  as  serenely  as  the  Marchioness  of 
London  had  surveyed  the  King. 

"Yes,  I  go  where  I  please,"  he  said,  "and 
I  buy  what  I  want — and  you  happen  to  be 
what  I  want  most  of  all." 

He  reached  across  the  table  and  picked  up 
her  fingers — slim  fingers  that  fell  softly  curving 
across  his  own. 

"Perhaps  we  can  make  a  bargain,"  he  said. 
"If  you  will  marry  me  today,  which  is  what  / 


UNGUENTINE  Stops 
Sunburn  Pain-QUICKER! 


•'•-■.•■■ 


wmmmammmmmmmam 


Unguentine  acts  the  instant  you 
spread  it  on.  The  pain  stops — 
quicker  than  with  anything  else. 
Why?  Because  Unguentine  pen- 
etrates! Unlike  lotions  and  toilet 
preparations  which  only  reach 
the  outer  surface  of  the  skin — 
Unguentine  goes  right  down  to 
the  inflamed  tissues,  where  the 
pain  is  actually  caused. 

don't  take  chances 

with  lotions  and  toilet 
preparations 

Severe  sunburn  is  just  as  painful 
as  any  other  burn — and  it  loo 
may  become  infected.  Your  doc- 
tor wouldn't  think  of  treating  a 
burn  with  a  toilet  lotion  or  cream. 
Neither  should  you.  Never  use 
anything  but  UNGUENTINE,  the 
famous  antiseptic  remedy  used 
in  8  out  of  10  hospitals  for  burns 
and  scalds. 

Pleasantly,  safely,  Unguentine 
changes  fiery  red  skin  to  rich, 
coppery  tan.  Only  50  cents — at 
your  druggist's.  Get  a  lube  to-day! 


Because  UNGUENTINE 
goes  as  deep  as  the  burn 


Subscribe  for 
PHOTOPLAY 

RATES 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United 
States,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and  Cuba; 
$3.00  Canada;  $3.50  to  foreign  countries.  Re- 
mittances should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal 
or  express  money  order. 

NOTICE! 


Do  not  subscribe  for  Photoplay  Magazine 
through  unknown  persons.  Verify  the  credentials 
of  all  solicitors.  If  in  doubt  giveyoursubscrintion 
to  your  newsdealer  or  use  the  coupon  and  send  it 
direct  to  Photoplay. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Dept.7-P,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  $2.50  [Canada  $3.00. 
Foreign  S3  50]  for  which  kindly  enter  my  sub- 
scription tor  Photoplat  Maoazine,  lor  one  year, 
effective  with  next  Issue. 


Send  to 

Street  A ddrcss 

City State 


124 


and 


here's  another  thing 
YOUR  BEST  FRIENDS 
WON'T  TELL  YOU! 

In  order  not  to  hurt  your  feelings,  they 
say  your  gray  hair  is  "distinguished." 
What  a  mockery !  Gray  hair  is  the  sym- 
bol of  heartbreak  age,  the  secret  sorrow 
of  every  women  foolish  enough  to  ig- 
nore NOTOX.  Here  is  the  scientifically 
correct  tinting  method  for  gray  hair. 
NOTOX  re-colors  your  hair  a  decidedly 
new  way.  Instead  of  crusting  the  hair 
with  a  surface  plate  of  dye,  as  do  old  fash- 
ioned "clear  white  restorers,"  NOTOX 
penetrates  the  hair  and  colors  it  inside 
the  shaft.  No  "dyed," artificial  look. 
And  your  hair  remains  as  fine,  lustrous 
and  supple  as  ever.  You  can  wash,  wave 
and  sun  NOTOXED  hair  without  affect- 
ing its  permanence  and  naturalness.  The 
finest  hairdressers  and  beauty  shops 
apply  NOTOX.  Resent  a  substitute — a 
like  product  does  not  exist.  Buy  it  for 
home  use  at  smart  shops  everywhere. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

want  most,  I  will  promise  to  give  you,  in 
exchange,  what  you  want  most.  In  a  year  I 
will  make  you  the  kind  of  woman  Jarod  Sarvis 
will  love,  and  when  the  year  is  over  I  will  give 
you  up  to  him." 

He  brushed  his  fingers  across  his  lips. 

"By  that  bargain,"  he  said,  "you  and  I 
shall  both  see  the  sunrise!" 

She  looked  at  him  quizzically,  her  hand  still 
in  his.  The  china  clock  beat  its  metallic 
rhythm  on  the  wall,  the  locusts  shrilled  in  the 
grass — and  then  against  the  open  front  door, 
the  lid  of  the  mail-box  rattled  and  there 
sounded  the  little  rustle  of  letters  going  in. 

"Wait  a  minute,  Johnny,"  Carlie  called.  She 
went  to  the  door,  blue  apron,  and  trailing  satin 
and  sequins. 

"After  tomorrow,  Johnny,"  she  said,  "you 
can  forward  my  mail  to  the  Hotel  Continental- 
Savoy  in  Cairo,  to  Mrs. wait  a 

minute,  Johnny — " 

She  went  back  to  the  gentleman  who  had 
offered    the    bargain. 

"By  the  way,"  she  said,  and  laughed 
squarely  down  at  him,  "just  what  is  our  name?" 


NOTOX 

MADE  BY  INECTO/m.  33  W.  46T."ST.  NEW  YORK 


<) 


0 


0 

0 


End 

Summer 

I  Itching! 


Use  cooling,  antiseptic,  heal- 
ing Zemo  when  mosquito 
bites,  prickly  heat,  ivy- 
poisoning,  toe-itch,  summer 
rash  or  sunburn  cause  itch- 
ing torture.  Zemo  relieves,  soothes  heat  and 
sting.  Apply  20  year  famous  Zemo  for  cuts, 
abrasions,  and  after  shaving.  Get  Zemo  to- 
day!  Any  druggist.   35*,  60*!,  $1.00. 


4 


Enter  the  $5,000  Contest! 

SUBSCRIBE  FOR 

PHOTOPLAY 

Subscription  rates  will  be  found  on 
opposite  page.     Use  the  coupon. 


"NJIGHTINGALE  Gardens  in  Paris! 
■L^  Transparent  dance  floor  with  water 
rippling  underneath;  darting  fish  and  floating 
lilies;  dancers  moving  on  the  surface  of  a  blue 
lake!  Tables  always  crowded!  The  smartest 
amusement,  the  most  spectacular  clientele 
Paris  had  to  offer,  was  Nightingale  Gardens 
from  midnight  till  dawn!  Gold  candlesticks. 
Scented  candlelight.  Champagne  glasses 
lifting! 

And  one  midnight  in  that  Nightingale 
Gardens,  there  was  much  flutter  and  comment 
regarding  the  little  gold  easel  on  the  most  ex- 
pensive table  in  the  room,  which  bore  the 
engraved  sign  "Reserve." 

For  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Randolph  Tremaine,  of 
Cairo,  were  entertaining  at  supper  Mr.  Jarod 
Sarvis,  of  Hollywood!  Every  one  watching! 
Whispering!  Waiting  for  the  three  most  sen- 
sational guests  Paris  had  had  for  many  a  day! 
Mr.  Randolph  Tremaine,  who  had  been  the 
freest,  most  happy-go-lucky,  most  careless 
bachelor  in  Europe!  Mrs.  Tremaine,  his 
bride  of  a  year!  And  Jarod  Sarvis,  the  idol  of 
American  pictures,  the  young  god  of  the  screen, 
the  lover  every  woman  secretly  imagined  was 
her  own! 

The  Tremaines  coming  from  Cairo  to  meet 
Mr.  Sarvis  on  his  playday  in  Paris! 

"Oh,  yes,  they're  old  friends,"  traveled  the 
gossip  from  table  to  table.  "They  say  she's  an 
exquisite  creature!  Absolutely  the  sensation, 
this  season,  at  Biarritz  and  St.  Moritz  on  the 
Riviera!" 

No  hoyden  with  a  storm  of  topaz  ringlets, 
Mrs.  Tremaine,  but  a  liquidly  lovely  woman  in 
superbly  simple  pastels,  molded  according  to 
her  husband's  scheme  and  to  her  own  amaze- 
ment! Boyish  head  with  close,  sleek,  satin 
mouse-colored  hair,  making  conspicuous  a  fore- 
head and  profile  of  rare  beauty;  ivory,  untinted 
skin  and  the  deep  lavender  eyes  that  he  had 
taught  to  regard  everything  with  poise  and 
self  possession! 

"Just  keep  your  voice  down  and  your  head 
up,  sweetheart,"  her  husband  would  say  to  her, 
laughing  down  at  her,  always  near  her,  always 
reassuring  her.  "  Don't  let  anybody  worry 
you!    You're  marvelous!" 

"L_TER  throat  was  slim  and  white.  She  wore  a 
■*■  -Hhread  of  platinum  necklace,  set  with  a 
single  diamond,  her  only  jewel  except  her 
jeweled  wedding  ring.    An  exquisite  creature! 

And  the  year  had  caught  up  with  them! 

In  Cairo  they  had  heard  of  Jarod  Sarvis'  trip 
to  Paris. 

Jarod  Sarvis  had  become  steadily  more 
famous.  More  the  idol  with  every  part  he  had 
played.  Feverishly,  Carlie  Tremaine  had  read 
news  of  him;  impatiently  had  waited  for 
pictures  in  which  to  see  and  hear  him!  With 
little  tremors  of  ecstasy  had  read  the  continued 
gossip  that  he  was  so  absorbed  in  his  work  he 
had  not  yet  found  time  to  fall  in  love! 


"All  right,  sweetheart,"  Rand  Tremaine  had 
said,  when  the  news  had  come  of  his  being  in 
Paris.  "We'll  meet  him  there.  We'll  invite 
him  to  supper  at  the  Nightingale  Gardens — or 
whatever  you  wish.  Order  any  gown  you 
want!" 

"You're  rather  wonderful  about  it,  Rand," 
she  had  said  to  him. 

He  had  brought  her  into  his  arms  for  just  a 
minute. 

"I'm  just  a  gambler,  dearest,"  he  had 
answered  her.  "It's  been  a  wonderful  year. 
And  a  bargain's  a  bargain.  I  owe  you  every- 
thing you  want." 

Paris! 

The  Nightingale  Gardens! 

The  table  marked  "Reserve." 

\^R.  and  Mrs.  Tremaine  arrived  first,  Mr. 
1  Vlfremaine  in  faultless  dinner  dress,  careless, 
happy-go-lucky  eyes,  wicked  little  mustache; 
Mrs.  Tremaine  wearing  mauve  chiffon,  simple, 
long,  clinging  folds  of  it,  just  the  color  of  her 
eyes.  Instantly  every  man  in  the  room 
coveted  her.    Every  woman  despised  her! 

And  Mr.  Sarvis  arrived!  Stood  looking  for 
them  expectantly — slightly  conscious  of  his 
handsome  perfection — slightly  conscious  that 
every  woman  coveted  him;  and  every  man 
despised  him!  Eyes  followed  him  to  that  most 
expensive  table! 

"  Carlie! "  His  eyes  devoured  her!  She  pre- 
sented her  husband.  With  a  great  deal  of 
laughter,  the  conversation  went  on,  and  Jarod 
Sarvis  watched  her  as  though  he  couldn't  look 
away  from  her! 

"You  may  not  have  heard,"  Rand  Tremaine 
said,  "that  Carlie  and  I  are  in  Paris  to  arrange 
a  divorce." 

Jarod  Sarvis  was  surprised. 

"I  thought  you  were  supremely  happy!" 

"Yes,"  said  Rand  Tremaine.  "After  all, 
isn't  that  a  very  good  time  to  decide  on  a 
divorce?  "  He  looked  at  Carlie  with  that  care- 
less amusement  in  his  eyes — "Even  Heaven 
doesn't  go  on  forever,  I  suppose,"  he  laughed. 
"Why  don't  you  have  this  dance — you  two?" 

Jarod  was  eager  to  dance  with  her! 

"I'm  just  understanding  how  much  I've 
missed  you,"  he  whispered,  as  they  moved 
away  together.  "It's  been  a  year!  Almost 
two!  I've  scarcely  seen  you  since  that  day  you 
read  my  fortune  in  the  sand!"  He  held  her 
closer — closer — "You've  changed  a  lot,"  he 
said — "you've  grown  amazing!  You're  won- 
derful!" 

He  was  oblivious  to  eyes  that  followed  him 
everywhere.  He  was  aware  only  of  the  girl  in 
his  arms! 

"  I'm  mad  about  you,"  he  said.  "  You've  got 
to  come  back  to  Hollywood!  You've  got  to 
come  back — to  me!" 

Rand  Tremaine  watched  them;  knew  what 
Jarod  was  saying;  saw  his  arms  drawing  her 
closer,  and  closer.  Rand  Tremaine  had  kept 
his  bargain.  He  had  made  her  the  kind  of 
woman  Jarod  Sarvis  would  love! 

They  came  back  to  the  table.  Rand  had 
never  seen  her  so  beautiful!  Never  so  much 
the  serene  Marchioness,  the  proud  little 
Virginian — the  flaming  dancer! 

"  Can  you  spare  me  the  next  dance,  sweet- 
heart?" Rand  asked  her,  "just  for  old  times 
sake?"  he  laughed. 

HE  carried  her  across  the  floor,  over  rippling 
water,  little  streaks  of  goldfish  playing  in 
the  light,  the  music  sighing,  syncopating — 

"Well,"  he  said,  "and  so  he's  in  love  with 
you  already!" 

"Yes,"  she  told  him.  "Funny,  isn't  it!  I 
was  so  sure  he  would  say  it  to  me  some  day!" 

"Are  you  happy?"  Rand  wanted  to 
know. 

She  laughed  like  a  little  girl  and  tucked  her 
face  against  his  shoulder. 

"I'm  so  happy  I'm  afraid  to  think  about  it," 
she  said — "I'm  afraid  I'm  still  dreaming!" 

The  young  idol,  Jarod  Sarvis,  rich  now,  and 
famous,  waited  impatiently  for  her  to  come 
back;  dark,  intense  eyes  watching  her,  as 
though  already  they  possessed  her! 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


25 


"So  now  that  you've  seen  him  again,"  Rand 
said,  his  voice  trying  hard  to  keep  that  little 
note  of  amusement,  a  brave  disguise  for  the 
something  else;  "now  that  you've  seen  him 
again — you're  still  in  love?  Really  in  love? 
Clear  road  to  sunrise?'5 

"Yes,"  she  told  him.  "Now  that  I've  seen 
him  again — I'm  still  in  love!    Terribly  in  love!" 

Forgetful  of  everyone,  her  lips  were  sud- 
denly close  to  his. 

"  Clear  road  to  sunrise,"  she  said — "  but  with 
you!" 


Hollywood's  Age 
of  Fear 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  59  ] 

years  in  this  country,  had  $50,000  in  govern- 
ment bonds.  She  must  have  three  times  that 
amount  today. 

Her  money  is  still  in  government  bonds  and 
savings  accounts.  Her  career  has  lasted  long 
enough  to  protect  her. 

ON  the  other  hand,  Blanche  Sweet's  didn't. 
She  married — reputedly  married  money. 
Many  Hollywood  girls  are  forced  into  similar 
marriages. 

And  when  you  talk  with  them  today — the 
stars  of  yesterday — of  what  do  they  talk?  Of 
yesterday!  Although  they  may  only  be  in 
their  low  thirties. 

What  Shall  I  Instruct  My  Press-Agent? 
Shall  I  Try  to  Become  a  Front  Page 
Personality? 

Gloria  Swanson  says,  "Front  page  person- 
alities are  born,  not  made.  When  certain 
personalities  walk  across  the  street  they  are 
news;  others  can  commit  murder  without 
making  the  headlines.  Barbara  La  Marr  was 
front  page.  So  was  Pola  Negri.  I  guess  I  am, 
too." 

A  front  page  personality  is  fine  while  one  is 
climbing,  but  when  one  reaches  the  top  it  be- 
comes dangerous.  Mabel  Normand,  Roscoe 
Arbuckle,  Barbara  La  Marr,  Norma  Talmadge, 
John  Gilbert,  Mary  Pickford,  Douglas  Fair- 
banks, Estelle  Taylor,  Joan  Crawford  and 
Clara  Bow  are  examples. 

Clara  has  never  hired  a  press-agent.  She 
would  need  one  only  to  keep  her  name  out  of 
print,  not  in  it.  Clara's  greatest  fear  has  been 
her  first  page  personality. 

Sue  Carol  is  a  created  personality.  A  press- 
agent's  campaign  did  it.  Alice  White  and 
Olive  Borden  are  others,  and,  more  recently, 
Marlene  Dietrich.  Marlene  is  already  at  the 
stage  of  exasperation  where  she  bursts  into 
tears  if  an  interviewer  even  questions  her  about 
Greta  Garbo.  But  Marlene's  place  in  pictures 
has  been  made,  and  comparisons  with  any 
other  actress  are  unnecessary. 

Shall  I  Play  Politics  With  the  Pro- 
ducers for  the  Sake  of  Getting  Better 
Pictures,  of  Having  a  Chance  to  Help 
Choose  My  Story,  My  Cast,  My  Director? 

"Before  you  are  a  star  it  is  somebody  else's 
worry  if  the  picture  doesn't  make  money," 
Joan  Crawford  tells  us.  "Afterwards  it  is 
your  fault.  The  story  may  be  bad  to  begin 
with,  but  it  is  Joan  Crawford's  picture  which 
is  bad.  The  director  may  be  terrible,  but  it  is 
Joan  Crawford's  picture  which  is  terrible.  The 
leading  man's  performance  may  spoil  the  show, 
but  it  is  still  Joan  Crawford's  picture  which 
he  ruins. 

"Before  I  became  a  star  it  wasn't  my  re- 
sponsibility. If  my  part  was  well  done  that 
was  all.  When  you  become  a  star  you  reach 
the  age  of  fear." 

Norma  Shearer  is  a  fine  actress,  but  she  is 
also  a  shrewd  politician.     She  has  the  best 


Keeps  teeth  white 


A  WINNING  smile  is  like  a 
short  cut  to  success.  It 
wins  friends. 

That's  why  teeth— WHITE 
teeth  are  a  priceless  posses- 
sion. They  give  your  smile 
its  winning  charm. 

Then  guard  your  teeth 
with  Dentyne— the  delicious 
gum  especially  made  to  keep 
teeth  white.  It  also  helps  to 
keep  gums  firm  because  its 
extra  chewy  quality  gives 
them  extra  healthful  exer- 
cise. No  finer  chewing  gum 
is  made  today. 


^FjENTYNE 

J J .  .and  smile! 


Special  Six  Months9 
Subscription  Offer 

So  that  our  readers  need  not  miss  a  single  issue  of  Photoplay  during  the  $5000.00 
Picture  Puzzle  Contest  we  are  making  a  special  six  month  rate  of  «"^ 

{See  page  62  for  full  particulars  regarding  Contest) 

This  special  offer  is  made  to  avoid  disappointment.  Many 
of  our  readers  complained  last  year  because  the  newsstands 
were  sold  out  and  in  many  instances  we  were  unable  to 
supply  back  copies.  Take  advantage  of  our  Special  Six  Months'  Contest  rate, 
send  $1.25  (Canada  $1.50;  Foreign  $1.75) — we  will  enter  your  subscription  for 
6  months,  starting  with  the  August  issue,  and  send  you  the  first  set  of  Cut  pic- 
tures, which  appeared  in  June  PHOTOPLAY.     Use  the  convenient  blank  below. 


PHOTOPLAY   MAGAZINE, 

DEPT.  CP-7-31,  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago. 

□  I  enclose  $1.25  (Canada,  $1.50;  Foreign,  $1.7S),  for  which  you  will  kindly  enter  my  subscrip- 
tion for  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  for  six  months,  effective  with  August  issue.      Also  mail  me 
the  set  of  Puzzle  Pictures  from  June  PHOTOPLAY. 
D   Send  me  the  set  of  Puzzle  Pictures  which  appeared  in  June  PHOTOPLAY. 

Name Street 

City State 


126 

Poor  Lamb! 

you 

thought 

summer-tan 

was  grand 


AND  now  just  look  at  you!  You'll  be  a 
L  fright  in  all  the  soft,  fluffy,  feminine 
things  that  call  for  fair,  white  skin. 

There's  just  one  thing  to  do — get  a  jar  of 
Golden  Peacock  Bleach  Creme — right  away. 
Ten  nights — and  you'll  be  a  ravishing,  fair- 
skinned  beauty!  All  the  weather-beaten  look 
gone — all  the  blotches  and  blackheads  and 
freckles  simply  coaxed  away. 

You  see,  Golden  Peacock  Bleach  Creme  is 
utterly  harmless — marvelously  gentle  and 
soothing  and  safe!  Has  the  same  ingredient 
they  use  in  baby  creams.  Soothes  and  sof- 
tens, whitens  and  heals — and  invigorates.  Ask 
for  it  at  any  toiletry  counter — $1  the  jar. 

^^     THE  NEW  ^—^ 

Qoldjea  U jeajcocR, 

0        BLEACH    CREME 


ORNS  are 

a  torture  to 
ctahdy  feet 

Summertime  puts  dainty 
feet  into  many  different 
shoes — heavy  oxfords  for 
sport,  sandals  for  parties, 
tight  rubber  slippers  for 
bathing,  modish  pumps  for 
street  wear.  And  every 
change  is  torture  if  you 
tolerate  a  corn. 
Ask  your  druggist  today 
for  one  of  the  new,  con- 
venient, 35c  packages  of 
Kohler  One  Night  Corn 
Cure. 


Manufacturers  also 

of  Kohler  Antidote 

for  Headache 


KOHLER 


IM  IGHT 


CORN    CURE 


*HLemoves~not  only  relieves  pain 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

casts,  photography  and  directors  for  her 
pictures.  There  is  no  denying  that  being  the 
wife  of  Irving  Thalberg  has  a  lot  to  do  with 
that.  If  she  were  his  wife  without  her  ability 
she  couldn't  make  good  pictures,  but  being 
his  wife  with  her  ability  helps  her  to  make 
better  pictures. 

Ruth  Chatterton  is  another  politician.  Al- 
though it  is  not  written  in  her  contract,  she 
has  been  in  every  story  conference  on  her 
productions,  had  a  few  words  to  say  about  her 
directors,  many  about  her  cast.  When  she 
could  not  afford  it  financially  she  bought  a 
beautiful  home  in  Beverly  Hills  and  set  out 
to  entertain  her  producers.  Not  because  they 
would  reward  her  for  entertaining,  but  so  they 
would  know  her  personality,  realize  her  ability 
and  benefit  by  it.  The  result:  success,  a  new 
contract  for  a  million  and  three  quarters  and 
certain  control  of  her  pictures. 

Shall  I  Accept  Invitations  and  Become 
Socially  Prominent,  or  Shall  I  Refuse 
and  Remain  a  Recluse,  Living  Life  in  a 
Simple  Manner? 

Ivan  Lebedeff  has  kept  his  place  in  the 
Hollywood  limelight  and  probably  his  con- 
tract at  Radio  Pictures  through  the  dress  suit 
manner.  He  is  far  from  the  top  yet,  but  if  he 
reaches  it  he  will  have  to  give  his  dinner 
clothes  much  credit.  There  is  no  chance  of  his 
being  forgotten  by  producers  or  those  who 
may  help  him. 

Lew  Cody  had  a  host  of  friends.  When  he 
was  hunting  for  jobs  many  forgot,  but  one 


m 


for  hair  ama  scalp 

A  single  bottle  corrects  scalp  irrita- 
tions; a  Proven  Germicide,  deli- 
cately perfumed;  safe  for  adults 

and  children.  World's  largest  seller  at 
Druoreists.  Barbers   Beauty  Parlors. 


BEEnamg 


whom  he  knew  socially,  Gloria  Swanson, 
remembered  and  helped  him  back  to  health. 
The  social  fear  works  both  ways.  To  be- 
come a  recluse  may  hurt;  to  become  too 
popular  may  hurt.  But  it's  a  definite  fear 
that  comes  with  success. 

If  I  Begin  to  Slip  as  a  Star  Shall  I 
Make  an  Effort  to  Get  into  Character 
Roles? 

An  important  question  as  well  as  a  well- 
defined  fear.  If  Mary  Pickford  finds  herself 
no  longer  the  "sweetheart,"  shall,  she  play 
mothers?  Will  the  public  laugh,  sympathize 
or  admire? 

Seven  years  ago  Irene  Rich  was  starred  in 
"Lucretia  Lombard"  at  Warners.  Norma 
Shearer  had  a  small  part  in  the  picture.  Today 
"Strangers  May  Kiss"  stars  Norma  Shearer. 
Irene  Rich  has  one  good  scene  in  the  picture. 
Seven  years  ago  Irene  was  receiving  $3,600 
weekly.  Today  she  gets  $1,750.  Irene 
says: 

WHEN  I  was  playing  in  "The  Mad 
Parade,"  James  Flood  was  on  the  set. 
He  was  speaking  of  Evelyn  Brent's  part.  He 
said,  'Irene,  what  a  part  that  would  have  been 
for  you  ten  years  ago.'  He  couldn't  know  how 
that  hurt. 

"Being  a  star  in  a  picture  is  like  being  a 
patient  in  the  operating  room.  You  are  the 
focus  of  attention.  The  doctors,  the  nurses, 
everyone  thinks  only  of  you.  On  the  set  the 
electricians,  the  cameramen,  the  director  are 


MONDAY  rj 


SRETA 


Copyright,  1931.  LIFE  Publishing  Co. 


No  Mickey  Mouse ! 


the  doctors  and  nurses.  They  think  only  of 
you. 

"When  you  have  been  a  star  and  then  come 
on  the  set  not  a  star  you  have  the  strangest 
feeling.  No  one  dashing  over  to  you  to  place 
a  chair  or  get  you  a  drink  of  water. 

"If  you  are  wise  you  will  conquer  the  horrible 
fears  which  harass  you.  I  turned  to  vaudeville 
to  conquer  them  and  now  I  am  glad  I  had  that 
stardom  once,  the  memories  that  go  with  it." 

If  I  Decide  to  Become  a  Character 
Actor  What  Fear  Will  Be  the  Greatest 
Then — or  Will  the  Fears  Be  Over? 

Edmund  Breeze,  a  leading  man  on  the  stage 
for  many  years  before  becoming  a  character 
actor  in  pictures,  says:  "You  will  have  one 
fear;  the  cutter.  No  matter  what  a  fight  you 
make  to  give  a  good  performance  it  all  rests 
with  the  cutter.  The  younger  element  will  be 
played  up  in  most  successful  stories.  Take 
'Kismet.'  I  read  the  reviews.  I  was  all 
excited  about  what  they  said  of  me.  I  went  to 
see  it.  What  I  considered  my  best  part 
wasn't  there,  but  for  the  good  of  the  picture 
it  was  probably  better  on  the  cutting-room 
floor.  But  it  is  a  fear  that  never  leaves  the 
character  actor."  > 

There  are  other  fears.  Many  of  them.  Fears 
of  parenthood.  Norma  Shearer  never  stopped 
studying  languages  or  voice  before  Irving,  Jr., 
was  born. 

She  had  to  keep  in  form  so  if  the  baby  hurt 
her  at  the  box  office  she'd  be  an  even  better 
actress.  It  hasn't  hurt  Norma.  It  did  hurt 
Leatrice  Joy. 

"CEAR  of  lines,  beauty,  fat,  heart  trouble  from 
*-  over  strenuous  work,  illness  from  wrong 
foods  haunt  the  stars.  And  always  the  fear  of 
unlooked  for  circumstances.  Estelle  Taylor 
was  splendid  in  "Don  Juan."  She  collected 
SI, 500  a  week  for  one  year;  $2,000  a  week  for 
six  months  more  from  United  Artists,  and 
never  made  another  picture  under  their  ban- 
ner. The  United  Artists  stars  at  that  time 
thought  the  wife  of  Jack  Dempsey  meant  bad 
publicity  for  United  Artists.  Her  fear  of 
being  known  professionally  as  Mrs.  Jack 
Dempsey  rather  than  Estelle  Taylor  still 
lingers. 

We  do  not  need  to  point  out  the  pathos  of 
the  Age  of  Fear  which  comes  to  Hollywood's 
successful. 


July  Birthdays 


July    8 — Eugene  Pallette 
July  10 — Lily  Damita 
July  10— John  Gilbert 
July  10 — Joan  Marsh 
July  11— Sally  Blane 
July  12 — Jean  Hersholt 
July  13 — Sidney  Blackmer 
July  14 — Olive  Borden 
July  15 — Raymond  Hackett 
July  16 — Barbara  Stanwyck 
July  18— Richard  Dix 
July  18 — Lupe  Velez 
July  21 — Hoot  Gibson 
July  21 — Ken  Maynard 
July  21 — Lenore  Ulric 
July  22 — Phillips  Holmes 
July  23 — Aileen  Pringle 
July  25 — Philippe  De  Lacy 
July  25 — Lila  Lee 
July  25— Alice  White 
July  26 — Charles  Butterworth 
July  26 — Emil  Jannings 
July  27 — Lawrence  Gray 
July  27 — Natalie  Moorhead 
July  28 — Joe  E.  Brown 
July  28 — Skeets  Gallagher 
July  29— Clara  Bow 
July  29— William   Powell 
July  29— Thelma  Todd 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


Would  you  be  content  with  a 
homely  husband — if  homeliness 
made  his  love  more  intense? 
Rupert  Hughes  upsets  all  your 
ideas  of  romance  in  July  Cosmo- 
politan, now  on  sale. 

■  ■ 
■ 

/Vre  some  women  born  to  be- 
tray men  who  love  them?  Fannie 
Hurst  seems  to  think  so — in  July 
Cosmopolitan. 

■  ■ 
■ 

JDo  you  know  what  exercise 
will  do  to  give  you  health  and 
an  enviable  physique?  Johnny 
Weissmuller  —  an  ill,  emaciated 
youngster — became  the  world's 
fastest  swimmer — and  a  perfect 
specimen  of  health.  Some  mem- 
ber of  your  family  may  benefit 
by  Steve  Hannagan's  story  in 
July  Cosmopolitan  of  how 
Johnny  swam  to  health. 


127 


uiy  Hj^ts  International 


On  Sale 

Now! 


A  Class  Magazine  with  more  than  1,700,000  Circulation 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  16  ] 


REDUCING— M-G-M— Marie  Dreader  and  Polly 
Moran  cut  up  in  a  beauty  parlor.  Need  we  add  you'll 
die  laughing?    (Feb.) 

RENEGADES— Fox.— Warner  Baxter  in  an  ex- 
citing story  of  the  Foreign  Legion,  with  Myrna  Loy 
as  the  feminine  spy.      (Jan.) 

•  RESURRECTION— Universal.— Talkie  ver- 
sion of  the  old  tale  is  a  triumph  for  Lupe 
Vclez.  She's  all  fire,  beauty  and  sincerity.  Well 
directed  and  John   Boles  sings  nicely.     (March) 

RIDER  OF  THE  PLAINS,  A— Syndicate.— 
Grand  old  Western  full  of  hokum,  and  a  happy, 
happy  ending.    (May) 

RIDIN'   FOOL,   THE— Tiffany    Prod.— Great 

little  Western.    Will  furnish  the  kids  with  plenty  of 
thrills.    (April) 

RIGHT  TO  LOVE,  THE— Paramount— Ruth 
Chatterton  in  a  real  dramatic  gem.  Ruth  and  the 
technicians  collaborate  in  putting  over  the  most  con- 
vincing dual  role  ever  filmed.    (Feb.) 


ROYAL  BED,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell 
Sherman  directs  himself  in  a  smart,  amusing  comedy 
about  modern  royalty.  Mary  Astor  is  a  gorgeous 
princess  and  the  veteran  Nance  O'Neil,  a  grand 
queen.     (Feb.) 

•  ROYAL  FAMILY  OF  BROADWAY,  THE 
— Paramount. — A  brilliantly  done  comedy  of 
actors  at  home.  Fredric  March  does  the  work  of  his 
life.  Ina  Claire  is  marvelous.  Don't  miss  this  one. 
(Feb.) 

SCANDAL  SHEET— Paramount.— A  great  news- 
paper drama  with  George  Bancroft  as  the  managing 
editor  and  Kay  Francis  as  his  wife.  A  meaty  movie 
with  a  knockout  kick.    (Feb.) 

SCOTLAND  YARD— Fox.— A  rattling  good 
crime  story  with  that  rattling  good  actor,  Edmund 
Lowe,  playing  a  dual  role.  This  film  packs  a  wallop. 
(Jan.) 

SEA  LEGS — Paramount. — In  spite  of  Jack  Oakie, 
Harry  Green  and  Eugene  Pallette,  this  comedy  isn't 
very  comical.     (Jan.) 

•  SEAS  BENEATH— Fox.— Dashing  adventure 
story  of  submarines  during  the  war.  George 
O'Brien  does  a  grand  job.  All  the  family  will  like 
it.      (March) 

SECOND  HONEYMOON,  THE— Continental. 
- — Farce  comedy  of  domestic  felicity  with  Josephine 
Dunn  and  Edward  Earle.     Entertaining.     (March) 

•  SECRET  SIX,  THE— M-G-M.— Still  another 
gang  story  but  with  more  humor.  Splendid 
cast,  includes  Wallace  Beery,  Lewis  Stone,  Clark 
Gable,  Johnny  Mack  Brown  and  Jean  Harlow.  (June) 

SEE  AMERICA  THIRST— Universal.— A  two- 
reel  plot  stretched  over  a  full-length  film  induces 
sleepiness.  Langdon  and  Summerville  do  their  best 
to  make  it  funny.     (Jan.) 

•  SEED — Universal. — Interesting  and  realistic 
story  based  on  Charles  Norris'  novel.  John 
Boles  doesn't  sing  but  his  acting  is  superb.  Lois 
Wilson  and  Genevieve  Tobin  both  excellent.  Don't 
miss  it.    (June) 

SHIPMATES— M-G-M.— Plenty  of  pep  and  ac- 
tion, plus  the  United  States  Navy,  make  this  a  veri- 
table gale  of  laughter  from  beginning  to  end.  Robert 
Montgomery  heads  the  cast.    (June) 

SINGLE  SIN,  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Nothing 
new,  but  splendidly  handled.  Kay  Johnson  does  some 
fine  acting.  Bert  Lytell,  Mathew  Betz  and  Paul 
Hurst  lend  good  support.     (April) 

SIN  SHIP,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Louis  Wol- 
heim,  as  actor  and  director,  attempts  a  romantic 
r61e.    Disappointing.     (Jan.) 

•  SIN  TAKES  A  HOLIDAY— Pathe.— Don't 
miss  this.  Constance  Bennett,  beautiful 
clothes,  smart  dialogue  and  a  working-girl-boss  ro- 
mance that  has  a  real  kick.     A  honey.     (Jan.) 

•  SKIPPY— Paramount.— Jackie  Cooper  as 
Skippy,  and  Bobby  Coogan  as  Sooky  entirely 
lovable  in  this  grand  picture  based  on  Percy  Crosby's 
famous  comic  strip.  Young  and  old  alike  will  love  it. 
(May) 


SOUS  LES  TOITS  DE  PARIS  (Under  the  Roofs 
of  Paris) — Tobis. — Skilful  pantomine  makes  this 
enjoyable  French  dialogue  picture  comprehensible 
without  knowledge  of  that  language.  Two  of  the 
songs  are  hummers.    (Feb.) 


•  SOUTHERNER,  THE— M-G-M— Lawrence 
Tibbett  in  a  gay,  charming  comedy — and  how 
he  sings!  Esther  Ralston,  too,  and  more  beautiful 
than  ever.     (March) 

•  STEPPING  OUT  — M-G-M.— Charlotte 
Greenwood,  Leila  Hyams,  Reg.  Denny,  Cliff 
Edwards,  Merna  Kennedy,  Harry  Stubbs  and  Lilian 
Bond  make  this  light  comedy  one  continual  laugh. 
See  it.     (May) 

STOLEN  HEAVEN— Paramount.— Slow,  unreal 
story.  Nancy  Carroll  and  Phillips  Holmes  fine  in  the 
romantic  moments.     (April) 


•  STRANGERS  MAY  KISS— M-G-M— Norma 
Shearer,  the  last  word  in  sophistication  and 
beautifully  gowned  in  a  vivid  drama  of  modern  life  by 
the  same  author  as  "The  Divorcee."  To  be  seen. 
(May) 


Get  Your  June 
Puzzle  Pictures! 

If  you  haven't  the  June  copy 

of  Photoplay  that  needn't 

prevent  your  entering  the 
great  $5,000  prize  contest. 

A  set  of  the  June  Puzzle  Pic- 
tures, together  with  the  rules, 
will  be  mailed  you  free,  on 
request. 

Just  drop  a  postcard  to 
Picture  Puzzle  Contest 

Photoplay  Magazine, 
■  919  N.  Michigan  Ave., 
Chicago,  111. 


SUNRISE  TRAIL,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
■ — A  Western  with  too  much  talking  and  not  enough 
action.     (March) 


SUSPENSE — British  International. — A  war  story 
and  a  pretty  slow  one.  Vic  McLaglen's  brother  Cyril 
is  in  it.     (Jan.) 


SVENGALI— Warners.  —  Well  worth  seeing  for 
John  Barrymore's  superb  performance  in  the  title 
role.  The  story  is  rathei  gruesome.  Dpn't  take  the 
children.     (June) 


SWA  NEE  RIVER— Sono  Art-World  Wide  — 
Thelma  Todd  and  Grant  Withers  try,  but  just  can't 
save  this  melodrama  from  being  anything  but  ordi- 
nary.    (May) 


•  TABU — Paramount. — A  poem  of  a  picture  laid 
in  the  South  Seas,  with  an  all-native  cast, 
beautifully  directed  by  the  late  F.  W.  Murnau.  Fine 
synchronized  musical  score.     (May) 


TAILOR  MADE  MAN,  A— M-G-M— The  jaunty 
and  self-confident  Bill  Haines  plays  this  old  Charlie 
Ray  silent  with  a  new  restraint  that  is  delightful. 
You'll  laugh  and  like  it.     (May) 

TARNISHED  LADY— Paramount.— Introducing 
Tallulah  Bankhead,  from  Alabama  and  the  London 
stage,  in  a  heavy  love  drama.  Clive  Brook  is  the  lead- 
ing man.     (June) 

THIRD  ALARM,  THE— Tiffany  Productions.— 
Out  come  the  old  fire  engines  to  make  a  big  noise. 
But  no  matter  how  hard  Jimmy  Hall  and  Hobart 
Bosworth  try,  it's  just  one  of  those  things.    (Jan.) 


3  LOST  GIRLS— Fox.— Loretta  Young,  Joan 
Marsh  and  Joyce  Compton  are  the  three  little  girls 
who  come  to  the  big  city.  Lew  Cody  good  as  the 
racketeer  and  John  Wayne  not  so  good.     (April) 


•     TOL'ABLE    DAVID— Columbia.— A    pretty 
grand  film,  excellently  directed,  and  beautifully 
acted  by  the  newcomer,  Richard  Cromwell.    (Jan.) 


TOO  MANY  COOKS  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Bert 
Wheeler's  first  starring  picture,  minus  Mr.  Woolsey. 
Plenty  of  laughs,  some  lumps  in  the  throat  and  Doro- 
thy Lee  as  the  heart  appeal.     (June) 


•  TRADER  HORN— M-G-M.— Harry  Carey 
magnificent  as  Trader  Horn.  Story  of  the 
African  jungle,  full  of  the  tensest  drama  and  per- 
fection in  photography.     (March) 


TRAPPED — Big  Four. — Fights,  songs,  gangsters, 
night  clubs,  murders,  chases,  plus  a  confused  plot. 
(June) 

TWO  WORLDS— British  International.— An 
honest,  dramatic  story  of  inter-racial  clashes — prob- 
ably the  best  of  the  recent  English  films.    (Feb.) 


UNDER  MONTANA  SKIES— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Slim  Summerville  saves  a  pretty  weak  picture 
about  a  stranded  showgirl.    (Feb.) 


UNDER  SUSPICION— Fox.— You  may  not  care 
what  happens  to  Lois  Moran  and  her  Northwest 
Mountie,  but  you'll  get  your  money's  worth  of  gor- 
geous scenery.     (Jan.) 


UNFAITHFUL— Paramount.— Ruth  Chatterton, 
a  society  matron  who  can't  divorce  her  faithless  hus- 
band (Paul  Cavanaugh)  without  involving  her  own 
sister-in-law,  and  so  goes  to  the  dogs.  Good  for  the 
Chatterton  fans.     (May) 


UP  FOR  MURDER— Universal.— (Reviewed  un- 
der the  title  "Fires  of  Youth.")  Talkie  version  of 
the  old  silent,  "Man,  Woman  and  Sin."  Lew  Ayres 
and  Genevieve  Tobin  struggle  through.  Pretty  badly 
worn  plot.     (April) 


VIRTUOUS  HUSBAND,  THE— Universal.— One 
of  those  over-sexed  things.  Starts  off  to  be  a  howl 
and  then  goes  serious  and  ends  by  being  pretty  bad. 
(June) 


WAR  NURSE— M-G-M.— A  perfect  movie  story 
gone  wrong.  Gruesome  and  silly,  by  turns,  this 
picture  is  a  sad  disappointment.  June  Walker. 
Anita  Page,  Robert  Montgomery  and  Robert  Ames 
have  the  leads,  which  makes  it  all  doubly  distressing, 
(Jan.) 


WESTWARD  BOUND— Syndicate.— Buffalo 
Bill,  Jr.,  with  his  guns  and  horse  in  another  Western. 
(Feb.) 


WHITE  THUNDER.— The  eternal  triangle  story 
is  secondary  to  the  magnificent  photography  show- 
ing the  terrifying  vast  iciness  of  Newfoundland. 
(March) 

WIDOW  FROM  CHICAGO,  THE— First  Na- 
tional.— Alice  White  is  starred  in  this  conventional 
gangster  picture.     (Jan.) 

WILD  MEN  OF  KALIHARI— Travel  Film.— 
Mildly  interesting  African  adventure — without  much 
faking.     (Feb.) 

WILD  WEST  WHOOPEE— Cosmo.— Jack  Perrin 
in  a  conventional  Western  saved  by  a  thrilling  rodeo 
sequence  and  the  noble  work  of  his  horse,  Starlight. 
Josephine  Hill  is  the  heroine.     (May) 


WOMAN  BETWEEN,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— 
Heavy  drama  with  lots  of  emotion  and  a  song  from 
Lily  Damita.  Miriam  Seegar  is  the  one  bright  spot. 
'June) 

YELLOW  MASK,  THE— British  International. — 
An  attempt  to  mix  music,  comedy  and  melodrama. 
But  they  don't  mix.     (Feb.) 


ZWEI  HERZEN  IM  VA  TAKT  (Two  Hearts  in 
Waltz  Time) — Associated  Cinemas. — The  most 
charming  sound  picture  yet  sent  from  Germany. 
Gay  and  tuneful  operetta  in  the  Viennese  manner. 
(Jan.) 


128 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


129 


STARS  £  PHOTOPLAY 


250    BEAUTIFUL  REPRODUCTIONS  IN  ROTOGRAVURE    250 
WITH  A  BRIEF  BIOGRAPHY  BELOW  THE  PORTRAIT  OF  EACH  STAR 

This  de  luxe  edition  of  the  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay" 
represents  the  very  finest  collection  of  beautiful  art  por- 
traits of  screen  celebrities  ever  assembled  under  one  cover. 


Photoplay  Magazine's  close  pep 
sonal  contact  with  the  stars  of  the 
industry  has  enabled  us  to  procure 
not  only  the  latest  but  the  most 
attractive  portraits  of  all  the  screen 
favorites. 

Two  hundred  and  fifty  photo- 
graphs  have  been  carefully  selected 
and  reproduced  by  rotogravure  proc- 
ess. This  process  retains  the  soft, 
deep  tones  and  highlights,  and  has 
resulted  in  exceptional  reproductions 
of  the  original  photographs. 

The  portraits,  for  convenient  reference,  have 
been  arranged  in  alphabetical  order  according  to 
the  names  of  the  stars,  and  below  each  portrait 
you  will  find  a  brief  biography  which  gives  a  clear 
and  comprehensive  sketch  of  the  star's  career,  in- 
eluding  such  information  as  weight,  height,  com- 
plexion,  age,  etc.  Just  the  type  of  information 
that  you  want. 

This  wonderful  collection  is  printed  on  a  choice 
grade  of  white  super  paper.  The  outside  measure' 
ment  of  the  book  is  734  x  10H  inches,  and  the 


THIS  UNMATCHED 
EDITION  OF  THE 

STARS  of  THE 
PHOTOPLAY 

HANDSOMELY 
BOUND  IN  EMBOSSED 
RED  ART  FABRIKOID 
WITH  GOLD  LETTER- 
ING 

Only  $1.25 


size  of  each  individual  portrait  is 
5/4  x  73^2  inches,  the  balance  of  the 
page  being  devoted  to  the  biographi' 
cal  sketch  of  the  particular  star 
featured  on  that  page. 

"Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  will  be  of 
aid  in  helping  you  solve  the  $5,000 
Prize  Puzzle  Picture  Contest  that  is 
now  being  conducted  in  Photoplay. 

Write  for  your  copy  of  the 
"Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  now.  Use 
the  coupon  provided  below  for  ,our 
convenience. 


Stars  of  Photoplay,  Dept.  PH.  7-31,  Photoplay  Magazine, 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave,  Chicago,  III. 

Please  send  me  my  copy  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay," 
for  which  I  enclose  nCheck  DM°ney  order  for  $1.25. 
Send  to  the  following  address: 


'H.ame. 


Street . 


City. 


.State. 


130 

As  The  Sun 

Grows  Hotter 

FRECKLES 

Grow  Thicker 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


Now  Is  the  Time  to  Get  Rid 
of  Those  Ugly,  Rusty  Spots 

For  the  fair-skinned  woman,  this  is  the  most 
critical  time  of  the  year — a  time  when 
freckles  seem  to  grow  thicker,  spread  farther, 
look  rustier  and  more  hideous. 

What  you  need  is  Othine-double  strength. 
After  a  few  nights'  use  of  this  dainty  white 
cream,  you  should  find  that  even  the  worst 
freckles  are  disappearing  while  the  lighter 
ones  have  vanished  entirely.  It  seldom  takes 
more  than  an  ounce  jar  of  Othine  to  fade  out 
those  homely  blemishes  and  restore  the 
natural  beauty  of  your  skin. 

Be  sure  to  ask  for  Othine-double  strength 
at  any  drug  or  department  store.  Money 
back  if  it  does  not  remove  even  the  worst 
freckles  and  leave  your  complexion  soft, 
clear  and  beautiful. 


OTHINE 


DOUBLE 
STRENGTH 


MONEY 
FOR  YOU 

$5,000 

CASH  PRIZES 

Photoplay's  Annual 

PICTURE  PUZZLE 

CONTEST 

Turn  to  page  62  in  this  issue 
for  conditions  of  contest.  See 
how  simple  it  is,  and  it  is  open 
to  everyone. 


Those  Amazing  Bennett  Girls 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  67  ] 


one  of  the  screen  miracles  of  all  time.  There 
are,  to  be  frank,  thousands  of  movie  fans  who 
don't  think  she's  worth  $30  a  week,  much  less 
the  $30,000— but  Warners  are  satisfied  that 
they've  made  a  good  bargain.  So,  by  the  way, 
is  Bennett  Senior. 

"I'm  ready  to  bet  you,  big  as  the  pay  is, 
that  it's  one  of  the  best  bargains  the  Warners 
ever  made,"  boasts  Papa  Bennett,  "because 
in  all  her  financial  dealings — and  they've  been 
smarter  than  I  could  ever  have  done  myself — 
Constance  has  never  cheated.  She's  always 
given  back  110  cents  on  every  dollar  she's 
been  paid." 

•"THERE  have  been  suspicions,  openly  voiced, 
■*■  that  Richard  Bennett  was  the  brains  behind 
the  foxy  financing  of  Constance  Bennett.  It 
has  been  guessed  that  out  of  his  thirty  years 
of  dealings  with  stage  and  screen  producers, 
he  gave  Constance  the  keen  advice  that  has 
brought  her  to  the  top  as  one  of  the  highest- 
paid  stars  of  today.  It  has  been  assumed  that 
in  every  negotiation  she  undertakes,  Richard 
Bennett  lurks  in  the  background,  whispering 
in  her  pretty  ears  when  to  say  yes  and  when 
to  say  no. 

But  Papa  Bennett  says  that's  all  hooey! 

"She's  smarter  than  I  am  right  now,"  he 
says,  "and  I'd  be  a  fool  father  to  try  to  advise 
her.    Instead,  I'd  rather  take  her  advice. 

"Why,"  he  goes  on,  "I  learned  my  lesson 
with  the  very  first  screen  job  she  took.  She 
did  ask  my  advice  then — and  I  gave  her  a 
figure  to  ask  for.  She  went  to  Hollywood  and 
by  the  time  she  was  done  dealing,  she'd  gotten 
just  twice  what  I  told  her  to  get.  So  I've  kept 
my  mouth  shut  since  then." 

And  how,  you  ask  him,  does  he  account  for 
the  amazing  financial  sagacity  of  this  yellow- 
haired  child  of  his? 

"Her  mind  just  clicks  that  way,"  he  says. 
"There's  no  giving  a  specific  reason  for  it. 
All  I  can  tell  you  is  this — that  her  mother  and 
I  brought  her  and  the  other  girls  up  to  take 
on  the  world  and  demand  from  it  what  they 
wanted. 

"Aim  them?  We  aimed  them  at  nothing. 
But  we  prepared  them,  as  best  we  could,  for 
anything — to  be  the  wives  of  kings  or  of  hod- 
carriers. 

"We  gave  them  everything  we  could.  We 
taught  them  the  world  as  far  as  we  could — 
and  then  told  them: 

"  '  Go  out  and  demand  your  due.'  " 

THE  story  of  the  rearing  of  the  Bennett  girls 
has  been  told  and  retold  so  often  that 
there's  no  need  of  going  into  detail  again. 
They  were  educated  to  the  limit— here  and 
abroad,  in  the  finest  of  schools. 

They  learned  sophistication  that  was  real, 
not  synthetic. 

They  traveled  the  world  over  as  children. 
They  met  people  of  every  station  in  life — the 
humblest  and  the  blue-bloodedest. 
•  "I'm  their  father — I've  been  an  actor,  I've 
been  a  bartender,  a  prize-fighter,  tailor, 
gambler,  medicine-show  spieler — soldier  of 
fortune,  bad  as  often  as  good.  I've  seen  a  lot 
of  life  and  of  the  world — and  that's  gone  into 
my  daughters,  too.  As  for  their  talent — well, 
behind  me  are  seven  generations  of  ministers 
of  the  gospel. 

"On  their  mother's  side,  they  go  back  to 
the  Wodins  in  Wales — gypsy  roamer  actors, 
who  played  every  sort  of  part  in  every  sort  of 
thing.  From  their  mother  and  father,  my 
daughters  have  inherited  their  talent — and 
the  charm  of  their  mother.  Their  father  is  a 
great  actor — their  mother  was  a  greater 
actress!  Heredity — it  all  went  to  build  up  a 
great  psychology  of  talent,  stored  up  in  their 
subconscious  entities  a  fund  of  ability  and 
knowledge  to  use  when  the  occasion  demanded, 


and  you  can't  put  your  finger  on  whence  it 
came. 

"It's  like  breeding  race-horses — thorough- 
breds. The  mare  may  have  one  bad  colt,  but 
the  strain  is  there." 

He  told  how  Constance  and  Barbara  at 
twelve  knew  a  half  dozen  of  Shakespeare's 
heroes  as  intimate  playmates.  He  told  of 
their  childhood  days,  the  stories  that  have 
been  told  often  before  of  how  the  youngsters 
stood  in  the  wings  and  watched  their  father  act 
in  his  greatest  successes.  No  need  to  repeat  it 
all  again. 

(CONDENSE  it  into  this— the  Bennett  sis- 
v— 'ters'  talent  is  part  heredity,  part  the  ab- 
sorption of  the  theater  in  their  childhood. 
They  came  by  it,  at  any  rate,  naturally. 

But  they  weren't  aimed  for  theatrical 
careers. 

"I  don't  think  their  mother  ever  wanted 
them  to  be  of  the  stage,"  says  their  father. 
"But  you  couldn't  stop  them.  It  was  in 
them." 

They  tried  matrimony — Constance  and 
Joan. 

Both  failed  at  it.  They  tried  acting,  Con- 
stance and  Joan. 

Both  have  succeeded  at  it. 

"Of  course,  they'll  never  be  wives,"  says 
Richard,  their  father,  the  one  who  knows 
them. 

"  They  may  marry  again — probably  will,  but 
they'll  never  be  successes  at  it.  Their  careers 
are  their  great  loves." 

Constance,  you  know,  has  been  married  and 
divorced  twice  already.  The  first  time  was  a 
before-twenty  affair. 

She  married  a  lad  named  Chester  Moore- 
head,  at  the  University  of  Virginia.  The 
Bennett  parents  had  it  annulled. 

Next,  she  married  Phil  Plant,  millionaire. 
That  failed. 

By  the  divorce,  Constance  got  a  million 
dollars.  She  hasn't  touched  it.  She  is  making 
her  million  herself. 

Joan's  marital  career  was  equally  a  flop. 
When  she  was  seventeen,  in  London,  she 
married  Johnny  Fox,  son  of  a  millionaire 
Seattle  lumberman.  Two  years  later  they 
were  divorced.  Their  daughter — a  lovely 
child — is  with  Joan. 

"Say — you  ought  to  see  that  kid!"  says 
Grandpa  Richard  Bennett.  "She's  being 
brought  up  in  the  same  manner  as  the  Bennett 
girls  were.  Perhaps,  in  her  time,  she'll  be 
another  of  the  amazing  Bennetts — star,  per- 
haps, of  television  or  whatever  by  that  era 
has  replaced  pictures.  Maybe  she'll  be 
getting  a  half  million  a  week  to  star  over  the 
ether,  while  her  mother,  Joan,  plays  a  support- 
ing role  at  one-twentieth  that  figure!  Imagine 
it  out  for  yourself,  if  you  like  to  play  with 
thoughts  like  that." 

But  to  get  back  to  the  Bennett  girls  and 
their  hearts.  Divorcees  now,  they  shy  from 
the  altar.  Not  from  love — they  are  intense 
women. 

There's  no  secret  about  Constance  and  the 
Marquis  Henri  de  la  Falaise,  divorced  hubby 
of  Gloria  Swanson. 

CONNIE  and  the  Marquis  are  "like  that  "— 
hold  up  those  two  fingers  again — as  this  is 
written.  True,  Joel  McCrea,  that  ruggedly 
handsome  young  leading  man,  has  been 
squiring  Constance  about  Hollywood  now 
and  then. 

"But  what  of  that?"  asks  Henri  de  la  Fa- 
laise. "Joel  and  I  are  the  best  of  friends.  It 
is  just  that  I  am  working  hard,  and  have  not 
so  much  time.  If  he  can  take  Constance  out, 
why  should  she  not  go?  There  is  no  quarrel 
between  Constance  and  me." 

Nor  is  there  talk  of  marriage. 


Joan? — Joan  and  John  Considine — hold  up 
the  two  fingers  once  more! — have  been  "that 
way"  for  many,  many  months.  True,  John, 
who  is  one  of  the  executives  at  Fox  where  Joan 
has  that  long-term  contract,  goes  about  places 
with  vivid  Carmen  Pantages,  too.  And  there 
have  even  been  tales  of  bitter  developments 
over  the  triangular  situation. 

But  marriage?  Why — only  a  short  while 
ago,  Considine  himself  poo-pooed  the  idea  of 
marriage. 

"'"THEY'LL  never  be  wives — their  career  is 
-*-  their  love,"  is  the  way  their  father  puts 

it,  about  Joan  and  Constance,  you  see. 
And  so  there  we  are — the  Bennetts. 
Richard — thirty  years   a   star   in   his  own 

name,  now  content,  even  proud,  to  be  playing 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

a  minor  role  in  support  of  one  of  his  daughters, 
Constance. 

Constance  has  been  a  star,  yet  even  now  a 
star  known  to  innumerably  more  people  than 
her  dad,  and  drawing  down  twenty  times  what 
he's  getting.  Adroit  actress,  intensely  smart 
business  woman,  doubly  ex-wife,  sophisticate, 
envied  by  millions  of  other  women. 

Joan — looking  like  a  high  school  girl,  and 
yet  a  mother;  star  in  her  own  right  at  a  salary 
that  bank  presidents  never  get;  brilliant 
actress  destined  for  even  greater  heights. 

And  Barbara — the  "odd"  one  of  the  Bennett 
sisters — happy  at  being  just  Mrs.  Morton 
Downey,  and  utterly  unenvious  of  her  sisters. 

AH  four  of  them — living  in  separate  houses, 
yet  close  as  that — (up  with  the  four  fingers)! 

Amazing  family,  what  .  .  .? 


I  71 


3 


Not  a  wave  in  sight — but  Frances  Dee  and  Wynne  Gibson  are  being  very 
nautical !  Both  wear  the  white  gob  trousers  that  are  so  popular  this  Sum- 
mer. Each  with  a  different  idea  about  the  top  part  of  her  costume,  however. 
Frances  chooses  a  short-sleeved,  striped  sweater  like  that  of  a  Basque 
fisherman.  Wynne  gets  striking  color  contrast  by  bright  colored  lacings 
on  her  white  shirt 


FROMO  TILlC) 

IN  THE  SAME  DRESS 

—  YE> T,  she  s 
always  fresh   and   dainty 


'omen  in  the  business  world  know 
that  their  charm  depends  greatly  upon  an 
appearance  that  is  at  all  times  fresh  and 
lovely.  These  modern  women  have  found 
in  DEW  a  certain  and  pleasant  way  to 
keep  that  freshness  about  themselves. 

Experience  has  taught  them  that  DEW, 
the  crystal-pure  deodorant  and  instant  non- 
perspirant,  will  keep  their  clothing  free  of 
perspiration  moisture  and  stains— always. 

DEW  may  be  applied  at  any  time,  even 
while  dressing.  It  will  not  irritate  sensitive 
skins  or  injure  fragile  fabrics  when  the 
very  simple  directions  are  followed.  Use 
as  often  as  needed. 

DEW  may  be  had  at  all  drug  and  de- 
partment stores  in  beautiful,  spill-proof 
dressing  table  flasks.  Three  sizes:  25  cents, 
50  cents  and  $1.00. 

{DEW  instantly  and  completely 
deodorizes  sanitary  pads) 

Lambert  Fesler,  Inc.,  St.  Louis 

Paris  London   Berlin   Amsterdam    Copenhagen 
Barcelona    Sydney    Toronto    Shanghai 

DEW 

Crystal-pure  Deodorant  v  Instant  Ncn-perspirant 


Can  be  used  at  any 
time.  Stops  perspira- 
tion instantly.  Tvon  t 
irritate  the  skm. 


Lambert-Fesler,  Inc. 

Dept.  J-21,  Del  Monte  Way.  St  Louis 

Inclosed  is  10c.  Please  send  DEW  sample  to: 

Address 

City. — -...State 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


Dandruff  Had 
Me  Frantic/ 

Dandruff  humiliated  me  terribly.  I  used  all 
sorts  of  things  but  they  only  matted  down  my 
hair  and  never  seemed  to  wash  out.  Then  I 
discovered  Fitch's  Dandruff  Remover  Shampoo 
— a  marvelous  way  to  remove  every  particle  of 
dandruff  quickly,   easily — as  I  wash  my  hair. 

Fitch's  dissolves  and  removes  every  trace  of 
loose  and  encrusted  dandruff  in  one  application 
under  a  money-back  guarantee.  Rinses  clean  in 
hard  or  soft  water.  As  good  for  blondes  as 
brunettes.  Fitch's  has  never  failed  in  37  years 
of    increasing   sales. 

Try  Fitch's  Shampoo  today.  At  all  barber 
and  beauty  shops,  drug  and  department  stores. 

Send  for  tree  trial  size  and  booklet. 

F.  W.  FITCH  CO.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa.    PH  7 

Please  send  me  generous  free  trial  package  and  32 
page  educational  booklet  "Your  Hair  and  Scalp." 


Name 


Address    

( In  Can  da:  266  King  St.,  W.,  Toronto) 


Hotel 
mbassador 

The  Ambassador 
Hotel  is  represent- 
ative of  everything 
that  the  finest 
hostelry  can  be  in 
location, cham^ex- 
cellence  of  menus 
and  service. 

There  are  always 
celebrities  of  the 
screen  world  at 
The  Ambassador. 
It  is  in  the  social 
center  on  one  of 
the  world's  most 
famous  thorough- 
fares. 

W     YO  K  K 

PARK   AVE  NUE 
AT  51st  STREET 


Contact 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  56 


"Producers  are  busy  men,"  Sol  Sluffin  in- 
sisted. "You  can't  expect  them  to  read  over 
ten  or  eleven  pages." 

"I  hardly  see  how  I  could  do  the  story  jus- 
tice in  ten  pages,"  Hector  explained.  "It 
would  be  formless  and  characterless;  there 
would  be  no  atmosphere,  no  verisimilitude." 

Sol  Slufnn's  eyebrows  jerked  upward  again 
and  his  chins  vibrated.  A  faint  pink  suffused 
his  eye-sockets.  "Say,"  he  said  promptly, 
"have  you  talked  to  many  producers?" 

"No,  I  haven't,  Mr.  Sluffin." 

"If  you  can  talk  like  that,"  Sluffin  said, 
"none  of  these  guys  would  understand  you. 
Maybe  you  could  get  by  as  a  genius,  I  don't 
know." 

Hector  wet  his  lips  again. 

"Anyway,"  Sluffin  snapped.  "I'll  take  you 
on,  Hector.  I'll  see  what  I  can  do  with  this 
story.  It's  goin'  to  be  a  hard  one  to  sell,  but 
if  anybody  in  the  world  can  sell  it,  I  can." 

"I  hope  so,"  Hector  nodded. 

"How  much  do  you  want  for  it?" 

"I  was  asking  five  thousand  .  .  ." 

"What!"  Sluffin  exploded.  "Five  thousand! 
You  were  askin'  five  thousand?"  His  voice 
trailed  off  in  laughter;  scornful  laughter. 
"No  wonder  they  wouldn't  buy  it!  If  the  guy 
that  wrote  it  says  it's  only  worth  five  thou- 
sand, it  certainly  ain't  good  enough  to  make 
no  picture  out  of!" 

"I'm  not  very  well  known,"  Hector  began 
to  explain,  "I  want  to  be  fair  with  these  people." 

"  rjAIR  with  'em!   Listen,  they  don't  respect 

■*-  anybody  that's  fair  with  'em.  You  got  to 
get  all  the  dough  in  sight.  They  don't  know 
nothin'  about  stories.  A  thing  is  just  as  good 
as  the  price  they  pay  for  it.  It  took  me  quite 
a  while  to  learn  that,  but  it's  what  made  me  the 
success  I  am.  I'll  have  to  change  this  story 
around  a  little  bit,"  he  added  importantly. 
"But  you  go  on  and  you'll  hear  from  me  per- 
haps in  a  week  or  so.  In  the  meantime, 
what's  your  address  and  telephone  number? 
Sometimes  these  things  break  quick.  I 
might  get  you  set  on  a  job  at  one  of  the  studios 
at  a  salary." 

"I'd  like  that  very  well,"  Hector  agreed. 

"I  suppose  you'd  work  for  just  about 
nothing,    wouldn't    you?" 

"Well,  I'd  like  .  .  ." 

"Suppose  I  pick  up  two  hundred  and  fifty 
a  week  for  you  to  start.    How's  that?" 

Hector  wet  his  lips  again  and  looked  doubt- 
ful. 

Sluffin  laughed. 

"All  right,"  he  said.  "I  won't  start  with 
any  chicken-feed  money  like  that.  I'll  ask 
five  hundred  an'  see  where  we  get." 

Hector  nodded  mutely,  looked  longingly  at 
the  unrolled  manuscript  into  which  he  had 
poured  his  very  soul,  and  left  Mr.  Sluffin  to 
his  own  devices. 

Hector,  having  manufactured  "The  Old 
Mill,"  had  limitless  faith  in  it.  He  had  dealt 
purposely  with  the  fundamentals  of  life.  It 
was  a  homely  yarn  and  a  gentle  one.  It  did 
not  drip  sentiment  nor  was  it  soggy  with 
spurious  emotional  reaction.  But  it  was 
warm,  and  sure-moving  and  in  its  finish, 
intensely  dramatic.  It  would  not,  he  assured 
himself,  be  an  expensive  picture  to  produce 
because  the  story  was  laid  in  rural  scenery. 

But  his  one  hope  now  was  that  Sol  Sluffin, 
who  struck  him  as  a  man  utterly  devoid  of 
literary  sense,  might  possess  sufficient  busi- 
ness acumen  to  overpower  the  habitual  re- 
sistance of  producers  and  so  bring  into  being  a 
chance  for  "The  Old  Mill." 


"pOUR  days  after  his  first  conference  with 
-^  Sol  Sluffin,  Hector,  to  his  infinite  delight, 
received  a  telephone  summons  from  the  man's 


secretary.  He  went  post-haste  to  the  Sluffin 
offices. 

"Well,  Hector,"  Sluffin  grinned  over  vibrat- 
ing chins,  "you  come  to  the  right  guy,  I 
guess." 

"That  so?"  Hector  queried,  breathlessly. 
"You  haven't  sold  'The  Old  Mill,'  have  you, 
Mr.  Sluffin?" 

"  'The  Old  MhT?"  Sol  asked  in  puzzled 
tones.    "Let  me  see  now.    'The  Old  Mill'  .  .  ." 

"Why,  yes,  the  story  I  left  with  you.  'The 
Old  Mill  .  .  .'    That's  the  name  of  it." 

"Did  you  leave  me  a  story,  Hector?" 

T_I  ECTOR  moistened  his  lips  and  looked  at 
*■  -'■the  man  in  stupefaction.  "Why  of  course 
I  did,  Mr.  Sluffin  .  .  .  Maybe  there's  some 
mistake  .  .  .  Maybe  you  really  don't  want  to 
see  me  after  all  .  .  ."  Once  again  that  abysmal 
disappointment  rose  and  contaminated  the 
lad's  voice. 

Sol  Sluffin  began  to  laugh.  "Don't  get 
scared,  kid.  I  want  to  see  you  all  right.  I 
just  forgot  the  story  for  a  minute.  But  I  re- 
member it  now,"  he  hastened  to  add.  "Yeah, 
I  remember  'The  Old  Mill'  ...  My  God,  kid, 
that's  a  lousy  story!" 

Hector  wet  his  lips  again  and  his  eyes 
widened. 

"Honest,"  Sol  went  on.  "That's  putrid,  that 
yarn." 

"I  cannot  agree  with  you,"  Hector  insisted. 
"I'm  an  author,  Mr.  Sluffin,  and  at  least  you're 
not  that." 

"No,"  Sluffin  nodded,  "thank  God,  I  ain't, 
kid.  But  you  needn't  get  hoppy  because  I  pan 
your  opus." 

"I'm  not  hoppy  at  anything  you  do," 
Hector  said  spiritedly.  "But  I  know  that 
'The  Old  Mill'  is  not  a  lousy  story." 

"The  picture  racket  is  a  thing  unto  itself, 
Hector.  Out  here  in  Hollywood,  we're  dif- 
ferent. We  know  what  we  want  and  we  know 
how  to  get  it." 

"Then,"  Hector  shrugged  hopelessly,  "I'm 
afraid  Hollywood  is  no  place  for  me." 

"On  the  contrary,"  Sol  cut  in.  "It's 
exactly  the  place  for  you.  You're  goin'  to  be 
here  for  the  next  six  months.     Looka  here." 

He  reached  into  a  pile  of  papers  and  expertly 
drew  forth  a  contract.  This  he  spread  out 
grandiloquently  for  Hector  to  read.  The 
young  author  took  the  instrument  and  walked 
over  to  the  window.  There  he  stood  and  read 
his  immediate  future.  He  had  been  signed  by 
the  very  studio  which  had  rejected  his  story, 
"The  Old  Mill,"  at  a  salary  of  four  hundred 
and  fifty  dollars  per  week  to  run  currently  for 
six  months. 

When  he  read  this  startling  good  news,  he 
looked  up  at  Sol  Sluffin  appreciatively. 

SOL  grinned  at  him. 
"I  guess  I  ain't  so  bad  at  that,  am  I, 
Hector?  It  never  hurt  nobody  to  come  and  see 
Sol  Sluffin,  did  it?" 

"This  certainly  is  welcome  news,  Mr. 
Sluffin,"  Hector  said.  His  resentment  towards 
studios  and  agents  generally,  melted  quickly 
under  the  influence  of  this  sudden  good  for- 
tune. 

"You  take  your  cues  from  me,  kid,"  Sluffin 
grunted.  "You're  just  gettin'  started.  I'm 
the  little  angle  expert  of  Hollywood,  Hector. 
You  hitch  your  wagon  to  my  star,  baby,  and 
you'll  ride  high,  wide  an'  handsome." 

"Of  course  I  will,"  Hector  nodded  eagerly. 

Sol  laughed  again  and  scrawled  his  signature 
across  the  bottom  of  the  contract  he  had  pre- 
pared for  Hector  to  sign  with  him.  Hector 
read  this  and  in  turn  put  his  signature  there- 
upon. 

"You'll  report  next  Monday  at  the  studio," 
Sol  nodded.  "Keep  your  mouth  shut.  Don't 
do   much    talkin'    without   you    consult   me. 


Another  thing,"  he  added  as  an  afterthought, 
"if  you  happen  to  write  any  originals,  be  sure 
to  turn  'em  over  to  me  first." 

HECTOR  was  given  a  comfortable  office  in 
the  Scenario  Department  of  the  big  studio. 
There  was  none  to  watch  over  him  and  check 
his  time.  In  fact,  throughout  the  first  week 
of  his  employment,  he  was  dubious  as  to  its 
authenticity  or  actuality.  When  he  presented 
himself  at  the  cashier's  window  of  the  Sluffin 
agency,  however,  he  was  promptly  paid  his 
four  hundred  and  fifty  dollars.  For  this  sum 
of  money  he  had  done  absolutely  nothing  ex- 
cept stroll  around  the  lot  and  sit  in  his  office 
smoking  cigarettes. 

The  second  week,  however,  brought  him 
some  action.  He  was  summoned  to  the  office 
of  the  Associate  Producer  and  told  to  work  on 
a  story  to  fit  a  certain  actress.  In  a  series  of 
sentences  which  left  Hector  in  complete  con- 
fusion as  to  what  was  desired,  the  Associate 
Producer  explained  the  sort  of  story  which 
they  thought  they  wanted. 

Hector  returned  to  his  office,  sharpened 
innumerable  pencils,  scrawled  across  in- 
numerable pages  of  blank  note  paper  and  in  the 
course  of  an  hour  and  a  half  filled  his  waste- 
basket.  Disconsolate  and  heavy  of  heart, 
he  left  the  office  to  roam  about  the  lot.  No  one 
objected  when  he  passed  through  a  stage  door 
onto  a  set.  The  confusion  about  the  place 
and  the  trapping  of  wire  and  lights  attracted 
him. 

He  paused  to  regard  the  scene  with  perhaps 
an  undue  interest.  Shortly  he  discovered 
another  man  at  his  side.  The  fellow  had  a 
dark,  flowing  tie;  the  hair  over  his  ears  was  too 
long  and  his  shirt  was  dirty.  To  this  man 
Hector  confided  his  problem. 

"Don't  I  know  it?"  the  experienced  writer 
laughed.  "You're  not  givin'  me  any  news, 
kid.  That  Associate  Producer  is  a  yes  man  for 
the  boss.  He  wouldn't  tell  you  anything 
definite  if  he  could.    If  I  were  you,  I'd  dig  out 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

all  the  old  films  this  dame  has  been  in.  I'd  get 
a  projection  room  and  have  them  run.  I'd 
look  at  them  all  and  kinda  meld  them  together 
like  they  were  a  pinochle  hand.  That  gives 
you  the  advantage  of  writing  something  they 
liked  once,  anyway." 

Hector,  who  was  creative  by  instinct, 
shuddered  at  the  very  thought  of  such  pro- 
cedure. 

"But  I've  waited  so  long,"  he  protested, 
"to  contact  with  these  studios  that  I  want  to 
do  something  really  worthwhile." 

"The  only  worthwhile  thing  you  can  doon  this 
lot,"  the  experienced  writer  snapped,  "is 
shut  up.  Keep  out  of  sight  except  on  pay 
day.  Sometimes,  of  course,  you're  bound  to 
get  called  into  a  conference.  But  when  that 
happens  just  say  yes  to  everything  the  boss 
says.    That's  Hollywood  success,  kid." 

Hector  prepared  two  or  three  outlines  of  a 
scenario,  but  each  time  he  recalled  the  fate  of 
"The  Old  Mill"  and  tried  to  avoid  anything 
that  was  original  or  constructive. 

During  the  fourth  week,  with  great  temerity, 
he  perfected  a  scenario  which  he  thought  might 
do. 

This  he  had  typed  out  carefully  and  armed 
with  a  manuscript  ten  pages  long,  he  went  to 
the  Associate  Producer's  secretary  and  asked 
for  an  appointment. 

"T'LL  be  glad  to  arrange  it  for  you,  Mr.  Hec- 
•Mor,  just  as  soon  as  I  can,"  the  young  lady 
promised.  "Of  course,  the  boss  is  terribly 
piled  up  now  with  that  new  story  for  the  little 
redhead." 

Hector  instantly  recognized  in  the  little 
redhead  the  actress  for  whom  he  had  been 
striving  to  perfect  a  story. 

"A  new  story  for  her!"  he  gasped.  "You 
mean  they've  decided  on  a  story  to  make  into 
her  next  picture?" 

"Oh,  yes.  They've  got  a  wonderful  story," 
the  young  lady  nodded  vehemently.  "The  big 
boss  himself  dug  it  up  somewhere.    The  whole 


*33 


CORNS 


Miss  Ona  Munson's  legs,  we  blush  to  admit,  are  the  objects  of  this 
masculine  concentration.  Director  LeRoy  and  the  cameraman  are  trying 
to  get  an  unusual  angle  on  the  subject  for  the  First  National  thriller,  "Five 

Star  Final" 


Quick  Sure  Relief 

Dr.  Scholl's  Zino-pads  are  so  instantly 
effective  that  in  one  minute  corns  stop 
hurling!  Sore  Iocs  are 
healed  overnight!  This 
wonderfully  soothing 
effect  is  produced  by 
their  healing  medica- 
tion. At  the  same  time 
they  remove  the  cause — 
friction  and  pressure  of 
shoes — by  cushioning, 
protecting  the  sore  spot. 

100%  SAFE! 

Zino-pads  are  safe, 
sure.  Using  harsh  liq- 
uids or  plasters  often 
causes  acid  burn.  Cut- 
ting your  corns  or 
callouses  invites  blood- 
poisoning.  Zino-pads 
are  small,  thin,  dainty. 
Made  in  special  sizea 
for  Corns,  Corns  be- 
tween toes,  Callouses 
and  Bunions.  Sold 
everywhere — 35c  box. 

Df  Scholl's 

Zino-pads 

Put  one  on — the  • pain  is  gone .' 


"AN     ADDRESS     OF     DISTINCTION 


^ 


EXCEPTIONAL 

SUMMER  ADVANTAGES 

Overlooking  Lake  Michi- 
gan .  .  .  with  parklands  .  .  . 
beaches  and  bridle  path 
close  at  hand  .  .  .  Restfully 
quiet  .  .  .  yet  within  a  few 
minutes  of  the  Loop  stores 
. . .  and  theatres.  Rooms  are 
light . . .  airy . . .  foods  tempt 
the  lagging  summer  appe- 
tite. Rates  begin  at  $4.00  per 
day.  Permanent  Suites  at 
Special  Discounts. 


Ill 


D  RAI\  C 

I   <    II   i  .    <   i    n    *«   « 

Under  Btaekstone  Management 


** 


J34 


"Cocoanut 
Grove1 

at  the 

Ambassador 
Los  An&clcs 

There,  beneath  an 
azure  sky,  graceful 
palms  and  twink- 
ling lights  you  will 
dance,  as  you  never 
danced  before,  to 
the  most  alluring 
of  dance  music. 

You  are  sure  to  see 
many  of  the  world's 
most  famous 

^Motion 
Tzflure->  Stars 

In  fact,  at  the  Am- 
bassador you  are 
sure  of  enjoying 
California  at  its  best. 

Open  Air  Plunge, 
two  Golf  Courses, 
MotionPicture 
Theatre   and 
every  outdoor 
sport. 


Writer  for  Chef's 
Illustrated 
Cook  Book 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

lot  is  excited  about  it.  I'm  surprised  that  you 
haven't  heard  of  it." 

"Why,  they  asked  me  just  a  short  time  ago 
to  write  a  story  for  her  next  picture,"  Hector 
said. 

"Yes,  they  asked  three  or  four  of  the  boys 
to  write  one.  But  they  didn't  seem  to  be 
getting  the  results  they  wanted.  Then,  out  of 
a  clear  sky,  the  big  chief  uncovered  this  master- 
piece. He  does  that  right  along  .  .  .  discovers 
masterpieces!" 

HECTOR  returned  to  his  office  and  to  avoid 
insanity,  laughed. 

Long  and  loud,  he  laughed.  Late  that  after- 
noon, Sol  Sluffin  called  him  on  the  telephone 
and  summoned  him  immediately  to  the  Sluffin 
suite  of  offices.  There,  in  Sol's  private  office, 
Hector  was  greeted  gustily  by  the  agent  him- 
self. 

"Comb  this  out  of  your  beard,  Hector!" 
Sol  exploded.  As  he  spoke,  he  held  forth  a 
check  payable  to  Hector's  demand.  It  was  for 
ten  thousand  dollars. 

"See?"  The  fat  agent  grunted.  "You 
thought  I'd  forgot  'The  Old  Mill,'  eh?  Well, 
that's  how  much  I  forgot  it,  kid!  I  sold  it. 
Ten  grand  net  to  you.  Contact.  That's  the 
thing.  Of  course,  pictures  is  a  racket.  Every- 
thing is  havin'  the  right  angle.  Here,  shove 
this  ten  grand  in  your  kick  an'  go  home  happy. 
In  the  meantime,  sign  these  papers.  That's 
all  we  ask  of  you." 

In  something  of  a  daze,  Hector  signed  the 
papers  and  took  the  check. 

"Now,  don't  forget,"  Sol  insisted  during 
these  formalities,  "now  and  then  when  you 
feel  like  writin'  somethin',  write  it  out  just 
like  you  did  'The  Old  Mill.'  Don't  say  nothin' 
to  nobody.  Just  bring  the  manuscript  to  me, 
Hector.    Savvy?" 

"Yes,"  Hector  nodded.  "All  right,  Mr. 
Sluffin.  I'll  certainly  do  that.  By  the  way,  I 
got  a  pretty  good  idea  for  a  picture  right 
now  .  .  ." 

"Well,  what  the  hell  do  you  put  it  on  ice 
for?"  Sol  snapped.  "Why  don't  you  write 
it  up  and  bring  it  in  here?  Just  keep  a  zipper 
on  your  kisser,  that's  all,  Hector.  Say  nothin' 
to  nobody.  Write  the  stuff  an'  bring  it  to 
me.  Boy,  I'm  the  little  angler  in  this  town. 
You  hitch  your  wagon  to  my  star,  an'  you'll 
ride  high,  wide  and  handsome!" 

TX7HEN  Hector  got  back  to  his  office,  the 
**  Hollywood  sun  was  sinking  toward  the 
hills  of  Beverly.  There  was  a  note  on  his 
desk,  however,  which  indicated  that  the  pro- 
ducer himself  had  called  Hector's  office  and 
wanted  Hector  to  communicate  at  once  with 
his  secretary. 

Hector,  with  a  ten  thousand  dollar  check  in 
his  pocket  and  a  contract  for  four  hundred  and 
fifty  a  week,  suddenly  had  come  to  know  a 
surprising    independence.      With    a    certain 


W/2 


44A 


iSft» 

vt  m  MINI  Jllllf  Till  miutTWl 


ij  mi;  mi  nuii  iim  inn  flm  imnnriiiin 


firmness  of  tone,  he  called  the  secretary  and 
was  requested  to  come  at  once  to  the  pro- 
ducer's office. 

Once  there,  he  waited  nearly  an  hour  be- 
fore the  magic  gate  opened  unto  him.  The 
producer  smiled  upon  him  benevolently; 
warmly  shook  him  by  the  hand. 

"Hector,"  he  said,  "I  got  a  job  for  you. 
It's  a  big  job  but  I  think  you  can  do  it  fine  for 
me." 

"I'll  be  very  glad  to  try,  sir,"  Hector  nodded. 

"Well,  I  want  some  dialogue  for  a  new 
story.  I  just  bought  this  story  for  the  little 
redhead.  Take  it  from  me,  Hector,  it's  a 
classic.  It's  dynamite.  If  you  give  me  a  good 
set  of  dialogue  for  this  picture,  who  can  tell? 
You  may  soon  be  famous  yourself!" 

"I'll  certainly  do  my  best,  sir,"  Hector 
promised. 

"TT'S  a  big  starring  vehicle,  this  one  is,"  the 
-^■producer  said.  "It's  exactly  the  kind  of 
thing  we  need  to  put  that  little  redhead  back 
where  she  belongs.  This  is  a  fundamental  thing. 
It's  got  all  the  qualities  of  greatness,  like 
Shakespeare  had  it.  It's  epic."  He  turned  to 
his  beautiful  desk  and  lifted  from  it  a  manu- 
script. 

"I  want  you,"  he  said,  "to  take  this  home 
tonight,  Hector,  and  read  it  over  very  carefully. 
Get  all  the  power  there  is  in  it.  Insert  your- 
self, like,  into  the  atmosphere  of  it.  Get 
saturated,  boy;  get  saturated  with  the  story. 
Look  the  thing  over  for  three  or  four  days. 
Then  start  on  the  dialogue." 

"Very  well,  sir,"  Hector  nodded.  He 
accepted  the  rolled  manuscript. 

"This  is  a  big  job  I'm  givin'  you,  Hector," 
the  producer  rattled  along.  "We  paid  heavy 
dough  for  this  story.  It's  real  road  show  stuff. 
I  paid  fifty  thousand  dollars  for  the  story 
alone!  Think  of  that!  Fifty  thousand  dollars 
just  for  the  story.  And  it  ain't  a  very  long 
one  either." 

"I'll  do  my  very  best,  sir,"  Hector  promised. 
Some  of  the  producer's  enthusiasm  was 
gripping  him. 

"See  me  in  two  or  three  days  now,"  the  pro- 
ducer repeated.  "Get  yourself  full  of  this 
thing.  Between  us,  we'll  do  this  job  up  fine. 
Maybe  if  you  should  do  a  very  good  job,  I 
could  give  you  twenty-five  hundred  or  three 
thousand  bonus  on  your  salary." 

"T  THANK  you  very  much,"  Hector  said, 
■*■  somewhat  overwhelmed  by  the  inexplicable 
filling  of  his  coffers  on  this,  his  lucky  day. 

"And  don't  talk  about  this  yarn  outside, 
Hector,"  the  producer  admonished.  "Other 
studios'll  steal  anything  they  hear  that's  as 
good  as  this  is.  Use  your  brains,  understand? 
Keep   everything  quiet." 

"I  promise  faithfully  I'll  do  that,"  Hector 
assured    the    man. 

Hector  had  a  little   Ford  with  which  he 


Did  You  Miss  the  First  Puzzle  Pictures? 

Never  you  mind!  Send  a  postcard  request  to  the  Picture 
Puzzle  Contest,  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE,  919  N.  Michigan 
Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

You'll  get  the  June  Puzzle  Pictures,  with  the  Rules,  FREE. 

So  come  on  in  and  get  yourself  a  piece  of  the  $5,000  cash  prizes! 

Stars  Of  the  Photoplay 

which  contains  more  than  250  of  the  latest  and  very  best  por- 
traits and  short  biographical  sketches  of  favorite  screen  players 
will  help  you  in  solving  the  puzzles. 
Use  the  coupon  on  page  129. 


transportc  1  himself  about  Hollywood  and  he 
had  this  parked  in  a  space  a  block  or  so  from 
the  studio.  Toward  this  space  he  now  turned 
his  way. 

The  hills  of  Beverly  in  the  west  had  assumed 
their  robes  of  royal  purple  in  the  dying  day. 
He  looked  upon  this  magic  with  a  new  under- 
standing and  appreciation.  Nature  had  brewed 
in  the  mountain  pools  lavenders  and  pinks  and 
reds  and  purples  which  caught  and  enthralled 
his  eye. 

THE  world  about  him  was  suddenly  beau- 
tiful commensurately  with  the  prosperity  it 
had  so  unexpectedly  given  him. 

He  drove  the  little  Ford  home  in  a  happy 
frame  of  mind. 

It  occurred  to  him  that  perhaps,  now  that 
things  had  so  changed  for  him,  he  could  buy  a 
car  such  as  stars  drove. 

His  little  two-room  apartment  struck  him 
suddenly  as  tawdry  for  one  of  his  new  position. 
It  would  be  inconsistent,  he  thought,  for  one  as 
successful  as  himself  to  entertain  contem- 
poraries there. 

He  must  get  larger  quarters. 

Before  he  went  out  to  dinner,  he  unrolled  the 
manuscript  which  the  producer  had  given  him 
and  settled  himself  in  his  easy  chair  for  a  first 
cursory  reading  of  the  yarn.  As  it  spread 
open  before  him  he  saw,  blue-penciled  across  its 
first  page:  "This  is  a  lousy  title.  It  will  have 
to  be  changed." 

Accordingly,  he  glanced  at  the  title.  It  was 
"The  Old  Mill." 

Hector  sat  erect  as  though  electrified. 
Fifty  thousand  dollars,  the  producer  had  said. 
And  in  his  pocket  reposed  a  check  for  but  ten! 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

Sol  Sluffin  had  come  into  his  life  on  the  recom- 
mendation of  an  associate  producer,  at  the 
very  company  which  first  had  rejected  his 
story  for  five  thousand  dollars  and  later 
bought  it  for  fifty  thousand! 

For  a  brief  moment,  Hector's  ire  was  roused 
to  fever  heat.  He  was  on  the  point  of  snatch- 
ing his  cap  and  starting  after  Sol  Sluffin.  Then 
he  sobered.  Calmer  thought  came  to  him,  and 
more  understanding. 

After  all,  Sluflin  had  been  his  contact,  and 
contact  was  the  thing  a  Hollywood  writer 
needed. 

Why,  when  he  would  have  been  happy  to 
sell  "The  Old  Mill"  for  five  thousand  dollars, 
should  he  now  fly  into  a  rage  because  it  had 
sold  for  ten? 

Sol's  words  came  to  him;  Sol,  who  knew  the 
racket  and  was  the  great  angler. 

"Contact,  that's  the  thing.  Everything  is 
angles,  an'  I'm  the  best  little  angler  in  Holly- 
wood." 

T"\IMLY,  Hector  realized  that  between  the 
■*- 'amount  paid  by  the  studio  and  the  amount 
he  received  there  was  forty  thousand  dollars 
with  which  to  play.  Men  big  enough  in  the 
motion  picture  business  to  bask  in  such  profits 
were,  he  thought,  big  enough  to  string  along 
with  himself.  Without  contact,  he  had  never 
made  any  money.  With  contact,  he  was 
already  thousands  of  dollars  to  the  good.  So 
he  dropped  back  into  his  comfortable  chair 
again  and  looked  upon  the  manuscript.  He 
burst  into  wholesome  laughter  once  more, 
dropped  his  head  against  the  wing  of  the  com- 
fortable chair  and  muttered: 

"Boy,  it's  a  racket!    It's  a  racket!" 


Last  Call  for  Your  Story 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  72 


his  advice.  Remember  that  he  asked  for 
modern-day  stories  laid  in  American  settings, 
stories  that  throb  with  the  romance  and 
glamour  of  today. 

Forget  heavy  costume  plays  and  stories  with 
historical  backgrounds.  Stories  of  that  kind 
can  be  procured  all  too  easily  from  other 
sources. 

It  is  stories  written  around  the  romance  and 
modern-day  problems  you,  yourself,  are  fa- 
miliar with  that  are  wanted. 

TAKE  the  case  of  several  recent  pictures. 
"The  Millionaire,"  George  Arliss'  latest 
triumph,  is  built  around  a  moving,  human, 
modern-day  theme,  with  an  American  back- 
ground. 

"My  Past"  was  ultra-smart,  ultra-modern 
everyday  life,  and  "The  Public  Enemy" 
caught  the  spirit  of  one  of  the  most  exciting,  as 
well  as  one  of  the  most  serious,  phases  of  cur- 
rent American  life. 

Life  never  moved  so  swiftly,  so  tensely,  so 
dramatically  as  it  does  today.  In  our  own  life- 
times we  have  seen  revolutionary  movements 
and  inventions  that  have  changed  the  daily 
habits  and  thoughts  of  the  world. 

Skyscrapers,  airplanes,  radio  and  television 
have  come  along  to  turn  things  upside  down. 
Trans-Atlantic  flights,  dazzling  speed  records 
on  land  and  water  have  shot  the  tempo  of 
modern  life  up  to  a  feverish,  rapid-fire  pitch. 
Present  day  life  is  an  ever-changing  panorama, 
and  the  ideas  it  offers  for  stories  are  un- 
limited. 

In  telling  your  story  try  to  capture  some  of 
this  broad  horizon.  Keep  clear  of  the  narrow 
confines  of  personal  prejudices,  theories  or 
religious  beliefs.  Make  your  story  of  wide 
appeal  and  interest,  for  remember  that  a  good 
film  production  must  appeal  to  all  classes  of 
people. 

The  title  "Beauty  and  the  Boss"  already 
suggests  a  definite  idea,  and  Marian  Marsh  and 


David  Manners,  who  have  been  selected  for  the 
leading  roles,  give  you  definite  character  types. 
And  that  S2,000  check  waiting  for  the  success- 
ful story  gives  you  a  definite  incentive. 

Before  writing  or  submitting  your  story,  read 
the  rules  of  the  contest  carefully.  They  will  be 
found  on  another  page  of  this  issue,  together 
with  the  coupon  that  must  be  attached  to  each 
manuscript  submitted.  It  is  important  that 
you  read  the  rules  and  attach  this  coupon  to 
your  story.  A  lot  of  unnecessary  correspond- 
ence has  already  come  in  from  readers  because 
they  neglected  to  read  the  rules. 

They  are  simple  and  complete  and  easy  to 
understand.  They  answer  all  the  questions 
you  might  have  to  ask. 

And  now  get  busy.  While  you  still  have 
plenty  of  time,  don't  put  it  off  too  long.  Mid- 
night of  July  15  marks  the  close  of  the  contest, 
and,  in  accordance  with  the  rules,  no  stories 
received  after  that  time  will  be  eligible  for  the 
$2,000  prizes. 

"""THERE  are  no  exceptions  to  the  rules  in  any 
*■  Photoplay  contest.  Every  contestant  re- 
ceives exactly  the  same  consideration,  and 
Photoplay's  reputation  for  fairness  and 
honesty  assures  every  contestant  of  exactly  the 
same  treatment. 

The  manuscripts  already  received  are  locked 
up  in  special  steel  files  with  special  locks  pro- 
cured purposely  for  this  contest.  Every  one  of 
them  will  be  read  completely  and  carefully  by 
the  judges,  and  the  judges  alone.  As  soon  as 
possible  after  the  contest  ends  the  decisions  of 
the  judges  will  be  announced. 

Any  other  questions  you  may  have  about  the 
contest  you  can  answer  yourself  by  carefully 
reading  the  rules. 

Don't  neglect  to  do  this,  for  a  thorough  un- 
derstanding of  the  rules  may  save  you  from 
disappointment. 

Read  them  and  get  to  work  and  become  one 
of  the  lucky  winners! 


Outdoor 
Women 


Need  this  face  powder 
to  retain  skin  youth 

WOMEN  of  leisure  discovered  Boyer's  "Flowers of 
Beauty"  Face  Powder  was  not  only  perfect  for 
the  ballroom,  but  best  /or  every  purpose  So  they  quickly 
adopted  this  amazing  new  powder  for  out -of -door  sports. 
It  is  surprising  how  long  this  powder  stay6  on.  It  ia 
unaffected  by  body  heat  and  forms  an  in- 
visible veil  which  protects  your  skin  from 
sun,  cold,  wind. 

Boyer's  "Flowers  of  Beauty"  Face  Powder 
instarttly  removes  shine,  stays  on  longer, 
and  imparts  a   youthful,  satiny  texture  so 
admired  and  envied.  This  powder  does  not 
cake  or  chalk.    It  is  pure  and  cannot  harm 
the  most  delicate  complexion. 
Six  fascinating  shades  to  improve  any  com- 
plexion ...  and  you  will  love 
the  odor.  The  handy  glass 
tube  for  your    purse 
I  only  25c    and 
the    large    box 
with    puff. 
$1.00.    If  your 
druggist  can- 
not supply  you, 
order  from  2700 
S.Wabash  Ave.. 
Chicago.  Guaran- 
teed to  please  you. 


BOYEK 


'Sfve.  Soa£hj  (PaAftirneuA. 


FORM 
DEVELOPED 

FLAT  chested?  Fashion  demands  the 
full,  rounded  shapeliness  of  the  wom- 
anly form.  The  stars  of  Hollywood  are 
developing  their  feminine  charm.  You, 
too,  can  quickly  add  extra  fullness  where 
needed.      My   new  method   plumps  dut 

the  hollows  ond  builds  firm,  youthful  tfaraa,  Just 
TRY  my  wonderful  MIRACLE  CREAM  »nd 
■pi  .ml  dsvalopilll  instructions! 

GIVEN  Write  Today 


CONVINCE 

YOURSELF 

Accept 

Special 

Offer 


wrapper)  And  I  will  inrl> 
Mouldinc  r„ur-..  rind  ci 
advantage  of  thin  bits  offer 


plain 

le  my  special  Ficuro- 
nplet«  advice  Tak* 
-»riio  AT  ONCEl 


NANCY  LEE      Dept.  X-7 

816  Broadway,         New  York,  N.  Y. 


Corns 


End  Corn  Pains 

instantly  with  Wizard  Im- 
proved Corn  Pads.  Cush- 
ioned, but  not  bulky.  Oh, so 
comfortable.  Treated  with 
mereurochrome  (HW&D). 
Safe.  10c  and  35c  package. 
FREE  sample.  Write  for 
it.  Send  your  dealer's  name 
and  address. 
Wizard  Co.  1636  Locust.  St  Louis  Mo. 


Wizard  Corn  Pads 


M 


eet  your  favorite  Mr1,  SIS 
ovie  star  ~- 


favorlte  sura, 
8x  10.  Eh>ssy 

prints.  25r  each.    5  for    St  00.      Pc-cncs  from  any  of  your  farorite   rsccnt 
pliotoplavs,  25c  each.  12  fnr  $2.50.       PocfJfrWa   tkr  fint*t  oUainablt  «|r- 
■  iAt,       (1,-niit  by  money  order  or  V    S    -V  stamp*. 
BRAM    STUDIO,    Studio   323.   630  -  9th    »v.ouo,   NEW   YORK   CITY 


i36 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 


It  Is  NOT  Too  Late 
to  Enter  Photoplay's 


$ 


5,000 


Picture  Puzzle 
Contest 

(See  page62  forfullparticulars  regarding  Contest) 


So  that  our  readers  need  not  miss  a 
single  issue  of  Photoplay  during  this 
contest  we  are  making  a  special  six 
month  rate  of  $1.25. 
If  you  haven't  a  copy  of  June  Photo- 
play, the  coupon  below  will  bring 
you  the  first  set  of  Puzzle  Pictures 
which  appear  in  that  number.  Or 
take  advantage  of  our  Special  Six 
Months'  Contest  rate,  fill  out  the  cou- 
pon below  and  send  $1.25  (Canada 
$1.50;  Foreign  $1.75) — we  will  enter 
your  subscription  for  6  months,  start- 
ing with  the  August  issue,  and  send 
you  the  Puzzle  Pictures  from  June 
issue. 

What  a  Subscription 

to  Photoplay 

Will  Bring  You 

Fascinating  pictures  of  photoplayers 
and  illustrations  of  their  work  and 
pastime. 

Scores  of  interesting  articles  about 
the  people  you  see  on  the  screen. 
Splendidly  written  short  stories,  some 
of  which  you  will  see  acted  at  your 
moving  picture  theater. 
The  truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth,  about 
motion  pictures,  the  stars,  and  the  industry. 
You  have  read  this  issue  of  Photoplay  so 
there  is  no  necessity  for  telling  you-  that  it  is 
one  of  the  most  superbly  illustrated,  the  best 
written  and  the  most  attractively  printed 
magazines  published  today — and  alone  in  its 
field  of   motion   pictures. 

Send  money  order  or  check  to 

PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE 

Dept.  CP-7-31,  919  N.  Michigan  Ave. 
CHICAGO 

The  coupon  belo-iv  is  for  your  convenience 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 

Dept.    CP-7-31,    919    N.    Michigan    Ave., 

Chicago. 

Gentlemen: 

D  I  enclose  #1.25  (Canada,  $1.50;  For- 
eign,  $1.75),  for  which  you  will  kindly 
enter  my  subscription  for  PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE  for  six  months,  effective  with 
August  issue.  Also  mail  me  the  set  of  cut 
pictures    from   June    PHOTOPLAY. 

□  Send  me  the  set  of  Puzzle  Pictures 
which  appeared  in  June  PHOTOPLAY. 


Street  Address 


City 


.  State . 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


"AFFAIRS  OF  ANNABELLE.  THE"— Fox.— 
From  the  play  "Good  Gracious  Annabelle"  by  Clare 
Kummer.  Screen  play  by  Leon  Gordon.  Directed 
by  Alfred  L.  Werker.  The  cast:  John  Rawson,  Victor 
McLaglcn;  Annabelle  Leigh,  Jeanette  MacDonald; 
Roland  Wimbledon,  Roland  Young;  James  Ludgale, 
Sam  Hardy;  Wickham,  William  Collier,  Sr.;  Lottie, 
Ruth  Warren;  Mabel,  Joyce  Compton;  Dora,  Sally 
Blanc;  Archie,  George  Andre  Beranger;  Gosling, 
Walter  Walker;  McFadden,  Ernest  Wood;  Bolson, 
Jed  Prouty;  Summers,  Hank  Mann;  Assl.  Hotel 
Manager,  Wilbur  Mack;  Ruby,  Louise  Beaver. 

"ALWAYS  GOODBYE"— Fox.— From  the  story 
by  Kate  McLaurin.  Continuity  by  Lynn  Starling. 
Directed  by  William  Cameron  Menzies  and  Kenneth 
MacKenna.  The  cast:  Lila,  Elissa  Landi;  Graham, 
Lewis  Stone;  Reginald,  Paul  Cavanagh;  Cyril,  John 
Garrick;  Landlady,  Beryl  Mercer;  Sir  George  Boomer, 
Frederick  Kerr;  Merson,  Herbert  Bunston;  Blake, 
Lumsden  Hare. 

"  CAPTAIN  THUNDER"  —  Warners.  —  From 
the  story  by  Hal  Davitt  and  Pierre  Couderc.  Directed 
by  Alan  Crosland.  The  cast:  El  Capitan  Thunder, 
Victor  Varconi;  Ynez  Dominguez,  Fay  Wray;  El  Com- 
mandanle  Ruiz,  Charles  Judels;  Juan  Sebastien,  Don 
Alvarado;  Pete  Morgan,  Robert  Elliott;  Bonila 
Salazar,  Natalie  Moor  head;  Pablo,  Bert  Roach;  Hank 
Riley,  Frank  Campeau;  Don  Miguel  Salazar,  Robert 
Emmett  Keane;  Pedro  Dominguez,  John  Sainpolis. 

"CHANCES" —  First  National.  —  From  the 
story  by  A.  Hamilton  Gibbs.  Adapted  by  Waldemar 
Young.  Directed  by  Alan  Dwan.  The  cast:  Jack 
Ingleside,  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.;  Tom  lngleside, 
Anthony  Bushell;  Molly  Prescott,  Rose  Hobart;  Mrs. 
lngleside,  Mary  Forbes;  Major  Bradford,  Holmes 
Herbert;  Archie,  William  Austin;  The  General, 
Edmund  Breon;  Private  Jones,  Harry  Allen;  Lieut. 
Wickham,  Edward  Morgan;  Ruth,  Mae  Madison. 

"DADDY  LONG  LEGS"— Fox.— From  the  nove1 
and  play  by  Jean  Webster.  Adapted  by  Sonya 
Levien.  Directed  by  Alfred  Santell.  The  cast:  Judy 
Abbott,  Janet  Gaynor;  Jervis  Pendleton,  Warner 
Baxter;  Sally,  Una  Merkel;  Jimmy,  John  Arledge; 
Riggs,  Claude  Gillingwater;  Wykoff,  Edwin  Maxwell; 
Mrs.  Semple,  Effie  Ellsler;  Freddie  Perkins,  Kendall 
MacComas;  Mrs.  Pendleton,  Kathlyn  Williams;  Mrs. 
Lippett,  Elizabeth  Patterson;  Mrs.  Pritchard,  Louise 
Closser  Hale;  Katie,  Martha  Lee  Sparks;  Gloria, 
Sheila  Mannors. 

"EVERYTHING'S  ROSIE"— Radio  Pictures. 
— From  the  story  by  Al  Boasberg.  Adapted  by  Tim 
Whelan.  Directed  by  Clyde  Bruckman.  The  cast: 
Dr.  J.  Dockweiler  Droop,  Robert  Woolsey;  Rosie, 
Anita  Louise;  Billy  Lowe.  John  Darrow;  Mrs.  Lowe, 
Florence  Roberts;  Mr.  Lowe,  Frank  Beal;  Oberdoff, 
Alfred  P.  James;  Miss  Van  Dorn,  Lita  Chevret; 
Sheriff,  Clifford  Dempsey. 

"FLOOD,  THE" — Columbia. — From  the  story 
by  John  Thomas  Neville.  Adapted  by  John  Thomas 
Neville.  Directed  by  James  Tinling.  The  cast:  Joan 
Marshall,  Eleanor  Boardman;  David  Bruce,  Monte 
Blue;  Bruce,  Senior,  Frank  Sheridan;  Randolph 
Bannister,  David  Newell;  Colonel  Marshall,  Wm.  V. 
Mong;  Emily,  Violet  Barlowe;  Willy,  Eddie  Tamblyn; 
Uncle  George,  Arthur  Hoyt;  Aunt  Constance,  Ethel 
Wales;  Jeff,  Buddy  Ray;  Oil  Skins,  Ethan  Allen. 

"FREE  SOUL,  A"— M-G-M.— From  the  story  by 
Adela  Rogers  St.  Johns.  Adapted  by  Becky  Gardiner. 
Directed  by  Clarence  Brown.  The  cast:  Jan  Ashe, 
Norma  Shearer;  Dwight  Winthrop,  Leslie  Howard; 
Stephen  Ashe,  Lionel  Barrymore;  Ace  Wilfong,  Clark 
Gable;  Eddie,  James  Gleason;  Grandma  Ashe,  Lucy 
Beaumont. 

"GOLD  DUST  GERTIE"— Warners.— From 
the  play  "The  Wife  of  the  Party"  by  Len  D.  Hol- 
lister.  Adapted  by  William  K.  Wells  and  Ray 
Enright.  Directed  by  Lloyd  Bacon.  The  cast:  Nila, 
Winnie  Lightner;  Harlan,  Chic  Johnson;  Guthrie,  Ole 
Olsen;  Arnold,  Claude  Gillingwater;  Dr.  Tate,  Arthur 
Hoyt;  Capt.  Osgood,  George  Byron;  Lucille,  Vivienne 
Oakland;  Mabel,  Dorothy  Christy;  Office  Secretary, 
Virginia  Sale;  Pestolozzi,  Charles  Judels. 

"GOOD  BAD  GIRL,  THE"— Columbia.— From 
the  storv  bv  Winifred  Van  Duzer.  Directed  by  R. 
William  Neill.  The  cast:  Marcia,  Mae  Clarke;  Bob 
Henderson,  James  Hall;  Trixie,  Marie  Prevost;  Tyler, 
Robert  Ellis;  Mrs.  Henderson,  Nance  O'Neil;  Mr. 
Henderson,  Edmund  Breese;  Donovan,  James  Donlan; 
Pagano,  Paul  Porcasi;  Roach,  Paul  Fix;  Moreland, 
Wheeler  Oakman;  Spike,  George  Berliner. 

"HIGH  STAKES"— Radio  Pictures.— From  the 
play  by  Willard  Mack.  Screen  play  by  J.  Walter 
Ruben.  Directed  by  Lowell  Sherman.  The  cast:  Joe 
Lennon,  Lowell  Sherman;  Dolly  Lennon,  Mae 
Murray;  Richard  Lennon,  Edward  Martindel;  Anne 
Cornwall,  Karen  Morley;  Louis  Desalta,  Leyland 
Hodgson;  Murray,  the  Butler,  Charles  Coleman;  Mrs. 
Gregory,  Ethel  Levey;  Mr.  Gregory,  Phillips  Smalley; 
Mrs.  Hennessey,  Maude  Turner  Gordon;  Judge  Hen- 
nessey, Alan  Roscoe. 


"JUST  A  GIGOLO"— M-G-M.— From  the  play 
by  Alexander  Engel  and  Alfred  Grunwald.  English 
adaptation  by  Frederic  and  Fanny  Hatton.  Screen 
adaptation  by  Hans  Kraly,  Richard  Schayer  and 
Claudine  West.  Directed  by  Jack  Conway.  The 
cast:  Lord  Robert  Brummell,  William  Haines;  Rosana 
Hartley,  Irene  Purcell;  Lord  George  Hampton,  C. 
Aubrey  Smith;  Lady  Jane  Hartley,  Charlotte  Gran- 
ville; Lady  Agatha  Carrol,  Lilian  Bond;  A  French 
Husband,  Albert  Conti;  A  French  Wife,  Maria  Alba; 
Freddie,  Ray  Milland;  Gwenny,  Lenorc  Bushman; 
Tony,  Gerald  Fielding;  Pauline,  Yola  D'Avril. 

"KICK  IN" — Paramount. — From  the  story  by 
Willard  Mack.  Screen  play  by  Bartlett  Cormack. 
Directed  by  Richard  Wallace.  The  cast:  Molly 
Hewes,  Clara  Bow;  Chick  Hewes,  Regis  Toomey; 
Charley,  Leslie  Fenton;  Myrtle  Sylvester,  Wynne 
Gibson;  Benny  La  Marr,  James  Murray;  Garvey, 
Police  Commissioner,  Donald  Crisp;  Whip  Fogarty, 
Paul  Hurst;  Diggs,  Wade  Boteler;  Piccadilly  Bessie, 
Juliette  Compton. 

"LAWYER'S  SECRET,  THE"— Paramount.— 
From  the  story  by  James  Hilary  Finn.  Adapted  by 
Lloyd  Corrigan  and  Max  Marcin.  Directed  by  Louis 
Gasnier.  The  cast:  Drake  Norris,  Clive  Brook;  Laurie 
Roberts,  Charles  Rogers;  Joe  Hart,  Richard  Arlen; 
Kay  Roberts,  Fay  Wray;  Beatrice  Stevens,  Jean 
Arthur;  "The  Weasel,"  Francis  MacDonald;  "Ma- 
dame X,"  Harold  Goodwin;  "Red,"  Syd  Saylor. 

"MAD  GENIUS,  THE"— Warners.— From  the 
story  by  Martin  Brown.  Adapted  by  J.  Grubb  Alex- 
ander and  Harvey  Thew.  Directed  by  Michael 
Curtiz.  The  cast:  Tsarakov,  John  Barrymore;  Nana, 
Marian  Marsh;  Karimsky,  Charles  Butterworth; 
Bartag,  Andre  Luget;  Serge,  Luis  Alberni;  Fedor, 
Donald  Cook;  Preskoya,  Carmel  Myers;  Fedor,  as  a 
boy,  Frankie  Darro;  The  Father,  Boris  Karloff;  Olga, 
Mae  Madison;  Katusha,  Barbara  Leonard. 

"MAD  PARADE,  THE"  — Liberty  Prod. — 
From  the  story  by  Doris  Malloy  and  Gertrude  Orr. 
Adapted  by  Doris  Malloy,  Gertrude  Orr  and  Henry 
McCarthy.  Directed  by  William  Beaudine.  The 
cast:  Monica,  Evelyn  Brent;  Janice,  June  Clyde; 
Dorothy.  Marceline  Day;  Fanny,  Louise  Fazenda; 
Lil,  Lilyan  Tashman;  Mrs.  Schuyler,  Irene  Rich; 
Snoop,  Fritzi  Ridgeway;  Rosemary,  Elizabeth  Keat- 
ing; Bluebell,  Helen  Keating. 

"6  CYLINDER  LOVE  "—Fox.— From  the  play 
by  William  Anthony  McGuire.  Adapted  by  William 
Conselman  and  Norman  Houston.  Directed  by 
Thornton  Freeland.  The  cast:  Donroy,  Spencer 
Tracy;  Monty  Winston,  Edward  Everett  Horton; 
Marilyn  Sterling,  Sidney  Fox;  Richard  Burton, 
William  Collier,  Sr.;  Margaret  Rogers,  Una  Merkel; 
Gilbert  Sterling,  Lorin  Raker;  Stapleton,  William 
Holden;  Mrs.  Burton,  Ruth  Warren;  Harold  Rogers, 
Bert  Roach. 


"SKY  RAIDERS,  THE  "—Columbia.— From  the 
story  by  Harvey  Gates.  Continuity  by  Harvey 
Gates.  Directed  by  Christy  Cabanne.  The  cast: 
Bob,  Lloyd  Hughes;  Grace,  Marceline  Day;  Willard, 
Wheeler  Oakman;  Kelley,  Walter  Miller;  Jimmy, 
Emerson  Treacy;  Bradford,  Ed  Le  Saint;  Pete,  Kit 
Guard;  Lefty,  Ashley  Buck;  Hansen,  Jerome  J. 
Jerome;  Louie,  William  H.  O'Brien;  Blondy,  Jay 
Eaton;  Sergeant,  Dick  Rush. 

"SMART  MONEY" —Warners. —From  the 
story  by  Kubec  Glasmon  and  John  Bright.  Adapted 
by  Kubec  Glasmon,  John  Bright,  Lucien  Hubbard  and 
Joseph  Jackson.  Directed  by  Alfred  E.  Green.  The 
cast:  Nick,  Edward  G.  Robinson;  Irene,  Evalyn 
Knapp;  Jack,  James  Cagney;  Sleepy  Sam,  Ralf 
Harolde;  Sport  Williams,  Doris  Karloff;  District 
Attorney,  Morgan  Wallace;  District  Attorney's  Girl, 
Margaret  Livingston;  Marie,  Noel  Francis;  Greek 
Barber,  Maurice  Black;  Hickory  Short,  Ben  Taggart; 
Cigarette  Girl,  Gladys  Lloyd. 

"SMILING  LIEUTENANT,  THE"  — Para- 
mount.— From  the  story  by  Felix  Dorman  and  Hans 
Muller.  Adapted  by  Ernst  Vajda  and  Samson 
Raphaelson.  Directed  by  Ernst  Lubitsch.  The  cast: 
Niki.  Maurice  Chevalier;  Franzi,  Claudette  Colbert; 
Anne,  Miriam  Hopkins;  King,  George  Barbier; 
Orderly,  Hugh  O'Connell;  Max,  Charlie  Ruggles; 
Adjutant  Von  Rockoff,  Robert  Strange;  Lily,  Janet 
Reade;  Emperor,  Con  MacSunday;  Baroness  Von 
Schwedel,  Elizabeth  Patterson;  Count  Von  Halden, 
Master-Ceremonies,  Harry  Bradley;  Joseph,  Werner 
Saxtorph;  Master  Ceremonies  (Austrian),  Karl  Stall; 
Bill  Collector,  Granville  Bates. 

"SUBWAY  EXPRESS"— Columbia.— From  the 
play  by  Eva  Kay  Flint  and  Martha  Madison. 
Adapted  by  Earl  Snell.  Directed  by  Fred  New- 
meyer.  The  cast:  Killian,  Jack  Holt;  Dale  Tracy, 
Aileen  Pringle;  Kearney,  Fred  Kelsey;  Tracy,  Alan 
Roscoe;  Borden,  Jason  Robards;  Stevens,  Sidney 
Bracv;  Mason,  Selmer  Jackson;  Mr.  Cotton,  William 
Humphrey;  Mrs.  Cotton,  Ethel  Wales;  Mr.  Zlotnick, 
Max  Asher;  Mrs.  Zlotnick,  Bertha  Blackman;  Mrs 
Mullins,  Lillianne  Leighton;  Mulvaney,  James  Goss; 


Prize  Fighter,  Maston  Williams;  Sheik,  Robert 
Linden;  Tony,  Harry  Semeles;  Zippe,  Robert  St. 
Angelo;  Molortnan,  John  Kelly;  Miss  Smith.  Dorothy 
Bay;  Guard,  Bob  Nortman;  Flapper,  Sally  St.  Claire; 
Mrs.  Delaney,  Mary  Gordon;  Sydney,  Earl  Seid; 
Thomas,  Ginger  Condey. 

"TEXAS  RANGER,  THE"— Columbia.— From 
the  story  by  Forrest  Sheldon.  Adapted  by  Forrest 
Sheldon.  Directed  by  Ross  Lederman.  The  cast: 
Jim  Logan,  Buck  Jones;  Helen  Clayton,  Carmelita 
Geraghty;  Matt  Taylor,  Harry  Woods;  Nevady,  Ed 
Brady;  High  Pockets,  Nelson  McDowell;  Tubby,  Billy 
Bletcher;  Lynn,  Harry  Todd;  Breed,  Budd  Fine;  Mr. 
Clayton,  Bert  Woodruff;  Lanning,  Edward  Peil,  Sr. 

"THIS  MODERN  AGE"— M-G-M—  From  the 
story  "Girls  Together"  by  Mildred  Cram.  Con- 
tinuity by  Sylvia  Thalberg  and  Frank  Butler. 
Directed  by  Nicholas  Grinde.  The  cast:  Valentine, 
Joan  Crawford;  Bob,  Neil  Hamilton;  Diane,  Marjorie 
Rambeau;  Tony,  Monroe  Owsley;  Louise,  Sandra 
Ravel;  Mr.  Blake,  Hobart  Bosworth;  Mrs.  Blake, 
Emma  Dunn;  Andre  De  Graignon,  Armand  Kaliz; 
Berthe,  Andrienne  D'Ambricourt;  Alyce,  Marcelle 
Corday. 

"TRAVELING  HUSBANDS"— Radio  Pictures. 
— From  the  story  by  Humphrey  Pearson.  Adapted 
by  Humphrey  Pearson.  Directed  by  Paul  Sloane. 
The  cast:  Ruby,  Evelyn  Brent;  Barry,  Frank  Albert- 
son;  Ellen,  Constance  Cummings;  Ben,  Carl  Miller; 
Joe,  Spencer  Charters;  Hymie,  Hugh  Herbert;  Pinkie, 
Frank  McHugh;  J.  C.  Wilson,  Purnell  Pratt;  Martha, 
Dorothy  Peterson;  Daisy,  Rita  La  Roy;  Mabel,  Gwen 
Lee;  Vera,  Lucille  Williams;  Walter,  Tom  Francis; 
Dan,  Stanley  Fields. 

"UPPER  UNDERWORLD"— First  National. 
— From  the  story  by  Rowland  V.  Lee  and  Donald  W. 
Lee.  Adapted  by  Robert  Lord.  Directed  by  Row- 
land V.  Lee.  The  cast:  Jack  Bannister,  Walter 
Huston;  Gloria,  Loretta  Young;  Mary  Stanton,  Doris 
Kenyon;  Dick  Cheney,  David  Manners;  Burroughs, 
John  Halliday;  Sneed.  Dudley  Digges;  Bailey,  Willard 
Robertson;  Gregory,  Gilbert  Emery;  Malcolm  Stanton, 
Douglas  Scott. 

"UP  POPS  THE  DEVIL"— Paramount.— From 
the  play  by  Albert  Hackett  and  Frances  Goodrich. 
Adapted  by  Arthur  Kober  and  Eve  Unsell.  Directed 
by  Edward  Sutherland.  The  cast:  Biney  Hatfield, 
Skeets  Gallagher;  Stranger,  Stuart  Erwin;  Anne 
Merrick,  Carole  Lombard;  Polly  Griscom,  Lilyan 
Tashman;  Steve  Merrick,  Norman  Foster;  Luella  May 
Carroll,  Joyce  Compton;  Gilbert  Morrell,  Theodore 
Von  Eltz;  George  Kent,  Edward  J.  Nugent;  Mrs.  Kent, 
Eulalie  Jensen. 

"VICE  SQUAD,  THE" — Paramount. — From  the 
story  by  Oliver  H.  P.  Garrett.  Directed  by  John 
Cromwell.  The  cast:  Major  Stephen  Lucarno,  Paul 
Lukas;  Alice  Morrison,  Kay  Francis;  Magistrate 
Morrison,  William  Davidson;  Madeline  Hunt,  Helen 
Johnson;  Detective-Sergeant  Mather,  Rockcliffe  Fel- 
lowes;  Josie,  Esther  Howard. 

"WAITING  AT  THE  CHURCH"  —  Radio 
Pictures. — From  the  story  by  Alfred  Jackson  and 
Barney  Sarecky.  Directed  by  William  J.  Craft. 
The  cast:  Fred  While,  Geoffrey  Kerr;  Evelyn,  Mary 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  July,  1931 

Brian;  Howard,  Johnny  Hines;  Margy,  Marie  Prevost; 
Lou,  Joseph  Cawthorn. 

"WHITE  SHOULDERS"— Radio  Pictures.— 
From  the  story  by  Rex  Beach.  Adapted  by  J.  Walter 
Ruben.  Directed  by  Melville  Brown.  The  cast: 
Norma  Selbee,  Mary  Astor;  Gordon  Kent,  Jack  Holt; 
Lawrence  Marchmont,  Ricardo  Cortez;  William 
Sothern,  Sidney  Toler;  Marie  Fontaine,  Kitty  Kelly; 
Head  Waiter,  Nicholas  Soussanin. 

"WOMAN  OF  EXPERIENCE,  A"— RKO- 
Patiie. — From  the  story  by  John  Farrow.  Con- 
tinuity by  John  Farrow.  Directed  by  Harry  Joe 
Brown.  The  cast:  Elsa,  Helen  Twelvetrees; 
Karl,  William  Bakewell;  Capl.  Otto  Von  Lich- 
stein.  Lew  Cody;  Katie,  ZaSu  Pitts;  Major  Hugh 
Schmidt,  H.  B.  Warner;  Captain  Muller,  C.  Henry 
Gordon;  Hans,  Franklin  Pangborn;  Countess  Runyi, 
Nance  O'Neil;  A  General,  George  Fawcett;  A  Red 
Cross  Nurse,  Bertha  Mann;  A  Colonel,  William 
Tooker;  A  Colonel,  Alfred  Hickman;  Capt.  Kurt  Von 
Hausen,  Edward  Earle;  Brunck,  Max  Waizman. 


"WOMEN  OF  ALL  NATIONS"— Fox.— From 
the  story  by  Laurence  Stallings  and  Maxwell  Ander- 
son. Directed  by  Raoul  Walsh.  The  cast:  Sergeant 
Flagg,  Victor  McLaglen;  Sergeant  Quirt,  Edmund 
Lowe;  Elsa,  Greta  Nissen;  Olsen,  El  Brendel;  Fiji. 
Fifi  Dorsay;  Pee  Wee,  Marjorie  White;  Captain  of 
Marines,  T.  Roy  Barnes;  Prince  Hassan,  Bela  Lugosi; 
Stone,  Humphrey  Bogart;  Kiki,  Joyce  Compton; 
Izzie,  Jesse  De  Vorska;  Leon,  Charles  Judels. 

"YOUNG  AS  YOU  FEEL"— Fox.— From  the 
play  "  Father  and  the  Boys"  by  George  Ade.  Adapted 
by  Edwin  Burke.  Directed  by  Frank  Borzage.  The 
cast:  Lemuel  Morehouse,  Will  Rogers;  Fleurelle,  Fifi 
Dorsay;  Mr.  Marley,  Lucien  Littlefield;  Billy  More- 
house, Donald  Dillaway;  Tom  Morehouse,  Torrance 
Ray;  Dorothy  Gregson,  Lucile  Browne;  Rose  Gregson, 
Rosalie  Roy;  Lamson,  C.  Henry  Gordon;  Colonel 
Stanhope,  John  T.  Murray;  Robbins,  Brandon  Hurst; 
Mrs.  Denton,  Marcia  Harris;  Secretary,  Otto  Hoffman; 
Lemuel's  Secretary,  Joan  Standing;  Pierre,  Gregory 
Gaye. 

"YOUNG  DONOVAN'S  KID"— Radio  Pictures. 
—From  the  story  "Big  Brother"  by  Rex  Beach. 
Adapted  by  J.  Walter  Ruben.  Directed  by  Fred 
Niblo.  The  cast:  Jim  Donovan,  Richard  Dix;  Midge 
Murray,  Jackie  Cooper;  Kitty  Costello,  Marion  Shill- 
ing; Father  Dan,  Frank  Sheridan;  Cokey  Joe,  Boris 
Karloff;  Burke,  Dick  Rush;  Collins,  Fred  Kelsey;  Ben 
Murray,  Richard  Alexander;  Spike  Doyle,  Harry 
Tenbrook;  Duryea,  Wilfred  Lucas;  Mike  Novarro,  Phil 
Sleeman;  Monk  Manilla,  Bob  Wilber;  Gyp,  Charles 
Sullivan;  Lefty,  Jack  Perry;  McConnell,  Frank  Beal. 

"YOUNG  SINNERS"— Fox.— From  the  play  by 
Elmer  Harris.  Continuity  by  William  M.  Consel- 
man.  Directed  by  John  Blystone.  The  cast:  Tom 
McGuire,  Thomas  Meighan;  Gene  Gibson,  Hardie 
Albright;  Constance  Sinclair,  Dorothy  Jordan;  Mrs. 
Sinclair,  Cecelia  Loftus;  John  Gibson,  James  Kirk- 
wood;  Trent,  Edmund  Breese;  Baron  Von  Konitz, 
Lucien  Prival;  Butler,  Arnold  Lucy;  Maggie  McGuire, 
Nora  Lane;  Sue,  Joan  Castle;  Jimmy,  John  Arledge; 
Bud,  Eddie  Nugent;  Madge,  Yvonne  Pelletier; 
Tommy,  David  Rollins;  Reggie,  Gaylord  Pendleton; 
Tim,  Billy  Butts. 


Don't  Forget! 


There's  $2,000  waiting  for  you  in  the  PHOTOPLAY- 
Warner  Bros.  Story  Contest,  which  closes  July  15.  Turn 
to  page  72,  read  the  details  and  get  your  story  in  before 
the  deadline. 

You  can  still  enter  PHOTOPLAY'S  Picture  Pu;zle  Con- 
test. If  you  missed  the  June  Issue,  write  Picture  Puzzle 
Contest  Editor,  PHOTOPLAY  Magazine,  919  North 
Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  and  reprints  will  be  sent  you. 
Complete  details  and  rules  of  this  contest,  carrying  with 
it  $5,000  in  cash  prizes,  will  be  found  on  page  62. 

Cast  your  vote  for  the  best  picture  released  during  1930 
to  be  awarded  the  PHOTOPLAY  Magazine  Medal  of 
Honor.    Use  the  ballot  on  page  76. 


juwe  coiLvc* 


cJ\ai 


fair  J(ggic 

MILLIONS  CALL   IT 

apliccless  secut-and  its  FREE/ 

Imagine  a  discovery  that  transforms  dull, 
lifeless  hair  into  lovely,  radiant  hair  such  as 
only  a  few  lucky  girls  are  born  with!  Yet  so 
subtle  is  this  new  loveliness  that  it  seems 
only  to  accent  the  natural  sheen  of  your  hair! 

Magic?  Yes,  the  magic  of  just  one  Golden 
Glint  shampooing!  For  Golden  Glint  is  far 
more  than  a  cleansing,  film-removing  sham- 
poo! It  imparts  just  the  least  touch  of  a  tint 
—ever  so  little— but  how  exquisitely  it  accents  the  nat- 
ural beauty  of  your  hair !  No  other  shampoo— anywhere 
like  it!    25c  at  your  dealers',  or  send  for  free  sample. 

FREE 


J.  W.  KOBI  CO.,  630  Rainier  Ave..  Dept.G 
Seattle,  Wash.     ....      Please  send  a  free  sample. 

Name 

Address 

City 


.State. 


Color  of  my  hair: 


cflns  Lash  Cosmetic 

DEFIES 
DUPLICATION 

EVERY  effort  made  to 
copy  this  wonderful 
liquid  mascara  has  been  a  fail- 
ure. Kathenne  MacDonaId"s 
Lash  Cosmetic  —  which  is 
used  by  the  stars  of  Holly- 
wood—  is  the  only  one  that 
leaves  your  lashes  soft  and 
silky,  yet  is  positively  waterproof  Cryproof .  .  rainproof... 
no  water  can  make  it  streak  or  run,  yet  it  gives  no  hint 
of  artificiality.  Contains  no  varnish,  so  cannot  flake  not 
break  your  lashes.  Easily  removed  with  cold  cream. 
Handy  purse  si;c  gold  capped  bottle,  black  or  brown.  $j. 

IKATIHERimE  MUcDONAUD'S 
LASH 
COSMETIC 


♦.- 

T 

TCathenne  MacDonald,  Hollywood,  Calif. 


(■ATtftpaoon 


Mercolized  Wax 
Keeps  Skin  Young 

Absorb  all  blemishes  and  discolorations  by  regularly  using 
pure  Mercolized  Wax.  Get  an  ounce,  and  use  as  directed. 
Fine,  almost  invisible  particles  of  aged  skin  fleck  off,  until  all 
defects,  such  as  pimples,  liver  spots,  tan,  freckles  and  large 
pores  have  disappeared.  Skinis  beautifully  clear,  soft  and 
velvety,  and  face  looks  years  younger.  Mercolized  Wax 
brings  out  the  hidden  beauty.  To  quickly  reduce  wrink- 
les and  other  age  lines,  use  this  face  lotion:  1  ounce  Pow- 
dered Saxolite  and  1  halt  pint  witch  hazel.  At  drug  stores. 

0±  ■  •  ■  ■■■  A  Beautiful  Rubber  Tea  Apron 
*  I  ■■  I  WkM  for  the  names  and  addresses  of 
!■■  ^V  BH  l^|  six  women  friends  and  IS''  to 
^J  I  ^_  I  ■  pav  for  postage  and  handling. 

^"    ~    ^mm  m  Address  Dept.  26. 
FAVOR  SALES  CO.,  538  S.  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago 


Jacques  Feyder  (in 
back  of  the  still 
camera)  directs  Ra- 
mon Novarro  in 
"Son  of  India." 
Note  the  rubber 
sneakers  worn  by 
one  of  the  assistant 
camera  men  who 
has  to  walk  around 
the  set  while  the 
scene  is  being 
filmed.  That  little 
microphone  hang- 
ing over  their  heads 
has  a  special  affin- 
ity for  footsteps 
that  have  no  place 
in  the  sound  scheme 


tudio  Rambles 


By  Frances  Kish 


WE  go  on  the  set  at  Paramount's  New  York  Studio 
just  as  they  are  taking  a  "silent  shot."  It's  a  scene 
in  the  latest  Claudette  Colbert  picture,  tentatively 
titled  "  Secrets  of  a  Secretary."  But  instead  of  the 
office  background  the  title  suggests,  Claudette  plays  the  role  of 
social  secretary  and  the  scenes  are  very,  very  Park  Avenue. 

They're  getting  ready  for  one  of  those  grand  weddings 
pictured  in  the  Sunday  rotogravure  sections.  Caterer's  men 
are  running  back  and  forth  with  chairs  and  tables.  The  butler 
stands  at  attention,  watching  them.  Then  he  turns  and  follows 
one  of  the  men. 

"Cut,"  calls  out  Director  George  Abbott.  "Don't  move  your 
lips  or  make  gestures  as  though  you  are  giving  directions.  This 
is  a  silent  sequence  and  you're  merely  watching  the  men  work, 
following  them  about  to  see  that  they  don't  break  or  steal  any- 
thing." 

If  the  actor  had  been  allowed  to  play  the  scene  his  way,  using 
his  lips  and  gesturing  unconsciously  because  his  mind  was  con- 
centrated on  the  action,  a  modern  audience  would  have  thought 
something  had  gone  wrong  with  the  theater's  sound  apparatus. 
When  we  see  lip  movements  we  expect  to  hear  voices,  these 
talkie  days. 

BETTY  LAWFORD,  who  takes  the  role  of  Sylvia  Mcrritt,  for 
whose  wedding  all  these  preparations  are  going  on,  is  the 
center  of  an  off-stage  group  who  admire  her  dark  blue  coat  with 
scarf  collar  and  chic  little  shoulder  cape. 

So  Betty  detaches  the  cape  to  show  it  is  a  two-in-one  costume 
that  can  become  a  smartly  tailored  cloth  dress  for  indoor 
wear. 

Both  Betty  and  Georges  Metaxa  (a  Roumanian  who  looks 
much  like  Valentino)  are  as  fascinated  by  the  studio  as  any 
wide-eyed  tourist  from  Pikeville  Center.  Betty  has  played  in 
a  number  of  talkies,  so  it's  not  new  to  her,  but  instead  of 
remaining  in  her  dressing-room  to  rest  she  is  on  the  set  half  an 
hour  before  call.  She's  afraid  she  will  miss  something  inter- 
esting. 

Mr.  Metaxa,  who  has  been  playing  in  "Bitter  Sweet"  on  the 


London  stage,  is  having  his  first  picture  experience.  He  arrives 
at  the  studio  hours  ahead  of  time  so  he  can  watch  the  other 
actors  play  their  scenes. 

Already  a  script  girl  and  dialogue  girl  are  vying  for  his  atten- 
tion and  when  he  drops  into  a  chair  next  to  one  or  the  other, 
there's  a  hint  of  thunder  in  the  air. 

They  say  he  screens  extraordinarily  well  in  the  "rushes,"  so 
get  set,  girls,  for  another  great  lover. 

Mary  Boland,  stage  star  making  her  talkie  debut  as  Mrs. 
Merritt,  asks  why  she  can't  have  the  canvas-back  studio  chair, 
lettered  with  her  name,  as  a  souvenir  when  the  picture  is  com- 
pleted. To  which  Mr.  Abbott  replies,  "It's  yours,  but  we'll 
keep  it  here  and  you'll  have  to  come  back  and  use  it." 

Miss  Boland  wears  lace  afternoon  pajamas  in  two  shades  of 
orchid. 

OUT  to  the  West  Coast  we  hop,  to  the  M-G-M  lot,  where 
"Son  of  India"  is  in  the  making.  A  colorful  scene  greets 
us.     Gorgeous  costumes,  beautiful  horses,  camels,  lavish  sets. 

Ramon  Novarro  prepares  to  wind  his  white  turban  around 
his  head.  It's  too  heavy  to  wear  between  shots,  so  he  waits 
until  just  before  going  on  the  set.  He  tilts  up  a  small  mirror 
and  goes  to  work,  winding  carefully  so  the  turban  will  be  exactly 
alike  on  both  sides.    Then  he  has  to  retouch  his  make-up. 

The  scene  starts.  Ramon  mounts  a  handsome  white  horse, 
trots  off  to  a  distance,  and  as  the  cameras  start  to  grind,  dashes 
madly  toward  us.  Someone  yells,  "Raise  Gertrude.  Now, 
lower  her.    Now  back  her." 

We  look  around  for  Gertrude.  Is  she  a  horse?  And  how  do 
they  raise  and  lower  her?  Someone  takes  pity  on  our  ignorance. 
"Gertrude"  is  the  crew's  pet  name  for  the  crane-like  contrap- 
tion that  holds  both  microphone  and  camera  for  these  special 
shots.  It  follows  horse  and  rider,  and  much  depends  upon  the 
man  whose  job  it  is  to  manipulate  it. 

"Look  out!"  comes  the  sharp  warning.  We  all  scamper. 
The  camels  are  stampeding.  But  no  one  is  hurt.  The  special 
providence  that  watches  over  such  scenes  in  pictures  has  been 
right  on  the  job. 


A  girl 
cant  be  too 
careful  ~ 


Now  that  I'm  ten  months  old,  I've  de- 
cided that  a  girl  can't  start  too  young  with 
the  right  beauty  treatment. 

Why,  some  gentlemen  of  my  acquaint- 
ance have  barked  like  dogs  and  walked 
like  bears  for  the  privilege  of  kissing  my 
cheek.  And  grown-up  ladies  are  really 
envious  of  my  complexion. 

But  I'm  not  conceited.  After  all,  it  was 
the  nice  doctor  at  the  hospital  who  sug- 
gested the  very  best  beauty  treatment  for 
my  very  sensitive  skin.  When  Mother 
asked  him,  he  said,  "Why  not  use  Ivory? 
You  can't  find  a  purer,  milder  soap." 

In  fairness  to  him,  I  always  mention 
this  fact  when  I  give  my  exclusive  beauty 
talks  in  my  Ivory  bath. 

But  I  haven't  told  you  about  Mother 
yet.  Now  she's  using  my  cake  of  Ivory.  Of 
course,  it's  perfectly  all  right,  as  she's 
always  been  very  nice  to  me.  In  fact,  I'm 


glad.  She's  so  pretty  that  she  deserves  to 
use  the  finest  soap! 

But  one  thing  is  a  mystery  to  me — 
what  Father  said  to  her.  "Where  are  all 
those  fussy  lotions  and  creams  you  used 
to  have  around?"  he  asked  with  a  smile. 

"Don't  be  silly!"  Mother  said.  I 
thought  she  acted  a  little  confused. 

Now  Mother  is  going  to  be  prettier 
still,  since  she's  taking  a  beauty  course 
with  Ivory! 


c4/i  Jvorij  fiabij  •  cHerMark 


I 


',. 


K 


-  however  grown-up  she  may  be  / 

P.  S.  Your  complexion  is  a  baby's  complexion  that  has  grown  up.  A  bit 
less  silky.  A  trifle  less  sensitive.  But  even  more  than  a  baby's  your  com- 
plexion needs  Ivory's  beauty  help.  For  the  skin  can  create  its  own  fresh 
beauty.  But  it  cannot  clean  itself.  And  its  clear  fresh  tone  will  be  dulled  if 
the  pores  are  clogged  by  dust  and  make-up. 

There  are  no  "if 's"  and  "but's"  about  cleanliness.  Only  soap  and  water 
will  really  cleanse.  And  you'll  find  that  an  Ivory  cleansing  will  "make  up" 
your  complexion  so  pleasantly.  For  Ivory  is  perfectly  pure.  Can  your  com- 
plexion afford  to  use  a  less  gentle  and  safe  soap  than  Ivory— which  cherishes 
the  delicate  beauty  of  millions  of  babies?  Procter  &  gamble 


IVORY  SOAP 


kind  to  everything  it  touches  -  C)C)44Aoo%  pure  -  it  floats 


Sunshine 


The  advice  of  your  phy 
sician  is:  Keep  out  of 
doors,  in  the  open  air, 
breathe  deeply;  take 
plenty  of  exercise  in  the 
mellow  sunshine,  and 
have  a  periodic  check- 
up on  the  health  of 
your  body. 


ellows 

Heat 
Purifi 


LUCKIES  are  always 
kind  to  your  throat 


Everyone  knows  that  sun- 
shine mellows  —that's  why  the 
"TOASTING"  process  includes  the 
use  of  the  Ultra  Violet  Rays.  LUCKY 
STRIKE  —  made  of  the  finest  tobaccos 
—  the  Cream  of  the  Crop— THEN 
-"IT'S  TOASTED" -  an  extra,  secret 
heating  process.  Harsh  irritants 
present  in  ajl  raw  tobaccos  are  ex- 
pelled by  "TOASTING."  These  irri- 
tants are  sold  to  others.  They  are 
not  present  in  your  LUCKY  STRIKE. 
No  wonder  LUCKIES  are  always 
kind  to  your  throat. 


TUNE IN- 

The  Lucky 
Strike  Dance 
Ontllln, 
every  Tueiday. 
Thurtday  and 
Nut-, do, 
■ting  o « 
N.   B.  C 


It's  toasted 

Your  Throat  Protection— against  irritation— against  cough 


e  1931.  The  A.  T.  Co.,  lift*. 


\ 


\ 


• 


I 


AUGUST 


25    CENTS 


ANN 
A  R  Dl  N  G 


NEMY 


UTY- 


OvER-ExERCISE 


Why    They  Say 


OAN   WRAWFORD 


IGH 


Of  course  Camels  are  milder 
THEY'RE  FRESH! 


MMAVE  you  noticed  how  women  everywhere 
are  switching  to  the  fresh  mildness  of  Camels? 
Always  a  great  favorite  with  the  ladies,  this 
famous  blend  is  more  popular  now  than  ever, 
since  the  introduction  of  the  new  Humidor  Pack. 

If  you  need  to  be  convinced,  make  this 
simple  test  yourself  between  a  humidor  fresh 
Camel  and  any  other  cigarette: 

First,  inhale  the  cool  fragrant  smoke  of  a 
perfectly  conditioned  Camel  and  note  how 
easy  it  is  to  the  throat. 


Next,  inhale  the  hot,  brackish  smoke  of  a 
parched  dry  cigarette  and  feel  that  sharp 
stinging  sensation  on  the  membrane. 

The  air-sealed  Humidor  Pack  keeps  all 
the  rare  flavor  and  aroma  in  and  prevents 
the  precious  natural  tobacco  moisture  from 
drying  out.  Important  too,  it  protects  the 
cigarette  from  dust  and  germs. 

Switch  to  Camel  freshness  and  mildness 
for  one  whole  day,  then  leave  them  —  if 
you  can. 


It  is  the  mark  of  a  considerate  hostess, 
by  means  of  the  Humidor  Pack,  to 
"Serve  a  fresh  cigarette. "  Buy  Camels 
by  the  carton  —  this  cigarette  will 
remain  fresh  in  your  home  and  office 


©1931,  R.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco  Company,  Winalon-Salem, N. C. 


Camels 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


^Listen,  Lydia  .  .  IVe  heard  enough  about 
Pink  Tooth  Brush'  from  you" 


MANY  a  husband  has  grown  bored, 
weary,  and  irascible  over  remarks 
to  the  effect  that  the  lady  of  his  house  has 
found  "pink"  on  her  tooth  brush — again. 

He  probably  has  "pink  tooth  brush" 
himself — but  men  are  far  more  likely  to 
ignore  symptoms  of  trouble,  and  later 
find  themselves  embroiled.  A  woman  will 
do  something  about  it — if  she  knows 
what  she  should  do! 

"Pink  tooth  brush,"  of  course,  comes 
of  lazy,  unexercised  gums  .  .  .  and  lazy 
gums  are  the  result  of  the  soft  foods  we 
moderns  almost  unanimously  prefer — foods 
that  give  our  gums  almost  none  of  the 
exercise  they  need  for  healthy  firmness. 
Circulation  slows  up  day  by  day,  until 
gums  are  so  "touchy,"  so  tender,  that 
they  begin  to  bleed  on  practically  the 
slightest  provocation. 

It's  a  very  real  trouble,  "pink  tooth 
brush" — often  the  fore-runner  of  more 
serious  trouble.  Gingivitis,  for  instance 
...  or  Vincent's  disease  ...  or  even  pyor- 
rhea, rare  though  that  is.  Also,  it  has 
been  known  to  threaten  sound  teeth, 
through  infection  at  the  roots. 

So  it's  best  not  to  ignore  that  first  touch 
of  "pink"  on  your  tooth  brush.  Step  into 
your  druggist's  and  get  a  tube  or  two  of 
Ipana  Tooth  Paste.  Clean  your  teeth  with 
it  regularly,  twice  a  day.  Ipana  is  a  mar- 
velous cleanser.  But  each  time,  put  a  little 
additional  Ipana  on  your  tooth  brush  and 
gently  massage  it  into  those  touchy, tender 
gums  of  yours. 

The  ziratol  in  Ipana,  with  the  regular 
massage,  stimulates  the  flagging  circula- 


tion — tones  and  firms  the  gums — strength-  your  gums  hard  and  strong  with  Ipana 

ens  the  flabby  walls.  Tooth  Paste  and  massage! 

Within  even  the  first  few  days  your 

......                      ..              /      '  BRISTOL-MYERS  CO.,  Dept.  1-81 

teeth  will  begin  to  sparkle  again.  Your  73  West  Screet.  New  York.  N.  Y. 

mouth  will  feel  cleaner,  fresher.  And  be-  Kindly  send  me  a  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH 

c          »u               -u    •                                                 11  PASTE.  Enclosed  is  a  two-cent  stamp  to  cover  partly 

fore  the  month  is  out,  your  gums  will  ^  cost  of  packing  ^  mailing. 

have  recovered  some  of  the  healthy  hard- 
ness they  used  to  have.   But  don't  stop 

using  Ipana  with  massage !  Conquer  "pink       Sln" 

tooth  brush"  for  once  and  all,  by  keeping       City Stau 

iDclIlcl  tooth  paste 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


IM  /IRMST 


J  ublfaak 


s 


THE  SMILING 

LIEUTENANT 

a  la ra mount  Q^   '  yjy ntlidavj 
JUBILE&  ^Ivum/cm 

Bb^'1   upon  "The   Waltz    Dream"  by   Leopold    Jacob«oi» 


el,  "Nu*    Der    Pr 


^paramount  IHk  Cpichirei 

*~r  PARAMOUNT  PUBL1X  CORP.        S&.r*?*rFl     *>S      ADOLPH  ZUKOR.  PRES.. 


ADOLPH  ZUKOR,  PRES..  PARAMOUNT  BLDC  ,  N.  Y. 


HOTOP 


The  World's  Leading  Motion  Picture  Publication 


Vol.  XL  No.  3 


JAMES   R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publisher 


August,  1931 


I 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  for 
the   best   picture   of  the   year 

1920  1923  1926 

"HUMOR-         "The  "BEAU 

ESQUE"    COVERED         GESTE" 
WAGON" 

1921  1924  1927 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 


1922 

1925 

1928 

"ROBIN 

"THE  BIG 

"FOUR 

HOOD" 

PARADE" 

1929 

"DISRAELI" 

SONS" 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets  . 

Friendly  Advice  on  Girls' 

Problems 


Hollywood  Menus       . 
Questions  and  Answers      ... 
Screen  Memories  from  Photoplay 
Addresses  of  the  Stars    .... 
Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 


6 

16 
70 
8^ 
92 
94 
120 


High-Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots James  R.  Quire  25 

The  Enemy  of  Beauty — Over-Exercise          .        .        .           Lois  Shirley  30 

A  Wet  Report Leonard  Hall  32 

Cal  York's  [Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood         ....  34 

Seymour — Photoplay's  Style  Authority 41 

Inside  Politics  of  the  Studios Hi  th  Btert  48 

Where  Now,  Clara? Leonard  Hall  55 

$5,000  in  Prizes 60 

Why  They  Said  Joan  Was  "High  Hat"    .        .        .      Katherine  Alhert  65 

Story  Contest  Judging  Begins 70 

Vote  Now  for  the  Best  Picture  of  1930! 74 

Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 8 

The  Shadow  Stage 56 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 90 

Personalities 

Lilian  Bond 27 

Mitzi  on  the  Job Frances  Denton-  28 

Should  Women  Work  ? Cal  Yohk  45 

Alabama  &  London John  S.  Cohen,  Jr.  46 

He  Kept  on  Working James  M.  Kahn  50 

Two  Ladies  Who  Make  You  Laugh — 

Una  Merkel Jeanne  Norte  66 

Edna  May  Oliver Harry  Lano  67 

Dolores  vs.  the  Jinx Katherine  Albert  68 

Back  After  17  Years         76 

Peggy  Shannon 80 

Short  Stories 

Lonesome  Glory Charles  Francis  Coe  38 

Yanity Matt  Taylor  52 


Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 

Editorial  Offices,  221  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City  Publishing  Office,  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

The  International  News  Company,  Ltd.,  Distributing  Agents,  5  Bream's  Building,  London,  England 

James  R.  Quirk,  President  Robert  M.  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathryn  Dougherty,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba;  S3.00  Canada;  S3.50  for  foreign  countries.    Remittances 

should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    Caution — Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24.  1912,  at  the  Postoffice  at  Chicago,  111.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879. 

Copyright,  1931,  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company,  Chicago 


Brickbats  fif  Bouquets 


The  $25  Letter 
FROM  A  MOTHER 

"p  LEVEN  years  ago  my  son  was  born — a 
•*— '  cripple.  He  has  never  walked.  I  have 
searched  for  compensations  for  the  long 
hours  he  spends  in  his  wheel  chair;  how- 
ever, there  is  only  one  real  compensation — 
"kid"  pictures. 

Three  times  I  have  wheeled  him  four 
long  blocks  to  see  Skippy  do  the  things 
that  every  normal  boy  has  done  or  longed 
to  do.  Perhaps  only  mothers  of  crippled 
children  can  realize  how  joyful  it  is  to  hear 
a  small  boy  laugh.  Through  the  medium 
of  moving  pictures  he  has  walked,  he  has 
played,  and  for  a  few  hours  has  had  two 
strong  legs.     And  how  he  loved  it! 

Sincere    praises    for    these    splendid    pic- 
tures.    May  we  not  have  more  of  them  ? 
Mrs.  A.  C.  Manzer, 

Utica,  N.  Y. 

The  $10  Letter 
FROM  AN  ALMS  HOUSE 

r  WONDER  if  you  can  realize  just  what 
■*■  motion  pictures  mean  to  one  who  is  fast 
traveling  life's  down-grade  and  is  nearing 
journey's  end?  Here  at  the  Alms  House 
we  have  silent  pictures  about  once  a  month. 
On  motion  picture  nights  we  old  people, 
for  a  blissful  two  hours,  live  again  in  the 
days  of  youth. 

As  we  sit  in  the  darkened  auditorium, 
the  years  slip  away;  we  forget  misery,  ill- 
ness, disillusionments,  cares;  we  are  of  the 
age  of  the  heroes  and  heroines  of  the 
screen.  We  live  again  in  them  and  rejoice 
at  their  happiness.  They  help  us  forget 
that  we  are  but  useless  hulks  stranded  on 
the  beach. 

When  good  fortune  comes  occasionally 
and  I  can  visit  a  real  motion  picture  theater, 
then  I  am  indeed  happy,  for  I  can  also  hear 
the  voices  of  those  who  help  me  to  forget. 
Talking  pictures  have,  to  me,  made  motion 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Critics 

PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten  and  Five  Dollar  Prizes  for  the 

Best    Letters 


Just  plain  spiteful  letters  won't  be  printed,  for  we  want 
to  be  helpful  when  we  can.  Don't  write  more  than  200 
words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your  name 
and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't  write. 
Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  Photoplay,  221  West 
57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the  right 
to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations.  Come  on  in 
and  speak  your  mind! 


pictures  more  lifelike.  I  am  glad  to  have 
seen  them. 

J.  L.  Rawson, 
San  Francisco,  Calif. 

The  $5  Letter 
FROM  A  FARMER'S  WIFE 

T  NEVER  really  appreciated  movies  until 
■*•  I  moved  to  a  small  Western  town,  where 
I  forgot  there  were  such  things  as  porcelain 


"/^lAN'T  we  ever  have  thrills  and 
1  .romance  again  without  a  machine 
gun  obligato?"  writes  one  movie 
fan.  "There  will  always  be  an  audience 
in  me  and  my  family  for  good  gangster 
films,"  another  tells  us.  But  most  of  you 
seem  just  a  little  tired  of  clutching  the 
arms  of  your  seat,  or  having  the  lights  go 
up  to  reveal  you  sniffling  into  your 
hanky. 

"Even  if  life  doesn't  always  have 
'happy  endings,'  let  us  have  them  in 
pictures,"  begs  a  young  man,  oddly 
enough.  "Business  problems  have  kept 
me  worried  for  months,  and  I  go  to  the 
movies  to  forget  that  life  is  difficult." 

The  Garbo  fans  haven't  quite  forgiven 
Katherine  Albert  for  her  story  way  back 
in  the  April  PHOTOPLAY.  But  what  a 
thrill  ive  got  from  the  many  letters  from 
PHOTOPLAY  fans,  who  told  us  they 
couldn't  do  without  their  "screen  bible," 
even  though  they  may  violently  disagree 
with  some  of  the  opinions  of  PHOTO. 
PLAY'S  writers. 

The  fans  keep  insisting  that  the  cast 
of  characters  should  be  repeated  at  the 
end  of  a  picture.  Clara  Bow's  public  still 
clamors  for  her.  Charles  Rogers  has 
made  good  in  his  dramatic  part  in  "The 
Lawyer's  Secret." 

Joan  Crawford  gets  her  usual  share  of 
mail,  most  of  it  lauding  her  ability  as  an 
actress  who  has  grown  out  of  jazz  roles 
into  real  histrionics.  There's  a  grand 
story  about  her  in  this  issue. 

Clark  Gable  is  making  hearts  flutter, 
even  in  unsympathetic  roles.  Lois 
Wilson  charmed  in  "Seed"  and  Jackie 
Cooper — well,  he  has  won  them  all,  old 
and  young,  sentimental  and  hard-boiled. 


bathtubs  or  frocks  that  came  from  any  place 
but  the  town's  "style  shop."  Twice  a  week 
the  picture  show  was  opened  and  we  paid 
twenty-five  cents  to  see  a  warmed-over  film 
and  thirty-five  cents  to  see  a  comparatively 
new  release. 

I  didn't  know  how  precious  those  pic- 
tures were  until  the  theater-owner  closed 
the  show.  But  when  it  was  re-opened,  with 
talkies  at  popular  prices,  I  was  able  to  hear 
good  music  and  given  ideas  on  re-arranging 
my  bungalow  and  improving  my  appear- 
ance. 

Ruth  Chatterton's  lovely  voice  reminded 
me  I  was  permitting  my  own  voice  to  park 
in  a  rut. 

I  forgot  that  for  months  and  months  I 
had  been  milking  cows,  feeding  chickens, 
and  worrying  about  hard  water. 

And  when,  a  few  months  ago,  we  went 
back  to  the  city,  we  didn't  appear  very  seedy 
- — thanks  to  the  movies. 

Mary  Frances  Doner, 

Mt.  Vernon,  Wash. 

CLARA  BOW 

T\  7"HO   said   we   are  fed   up   with   Clara 
*V  Bow?    Not  on  your  life!     I  think  she 
is  the  greatest  little  aueen  of  comedy  and 
queen  of  hearts  in  the  world. 

If  she  is  ever  dropped  from  the  films 
without  her  consent,  right  then  I  will  quit 
going  to  the  movies. 

M.  B.  Butler, 

Taft,  Calif. 

Even   a  glorious  actress   like  Clara   Bow 

is    dependent    upon    good    pictures.      We 

thought    they    had    ruined    her    with    silly 

flapper  parts,  but  "Kick  In"  was  wonderful. 

La  Verne  Whitener, 

Goldonna,  La. 


WE'RE  FOR  IT,  HERBERT 

WHY  not  have  the  list  of  players  on  the 
screen  at  the  beginning  of  the  picture 
and  again  at  the  end,  and  save  time  and 
trouble  for  lots  of  us  that  want  to  know 
who  played  the  minor  roles  as  well  as  the 
important  ones? 

Herbert  Decker, 

Newark,  N.  J. 
[please  turn  to  page  10] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


BARBARA 


STA  N  W  YC  K 


f/V 


BEN   LYON 
JOAN   BLONDELL 

From  the  novel  Night  Nurse  by 
Dora  Macy  ....  Screen  play 
by  Oliver  H.  P.  Garrett  .... 
Additional  dialogue  by  Charles 
Kenyon  ....  Directed  by 
WILLIAM    WELLMAN 


**  Vitaphone**  i*  the  registered  trade* 
mark  of  The  Vitaphone  Corporation 


NIGHT  NURSE 

Utterly  revealing!  Night  Nurse,  by  the  author  of  Ex-Mistress, 
is  a  human  document  —  the  story  of  the  woman  who  must  do 
men's  bidding  in  the  long  watches  of  the  night  .  .  .  After  the 
first  hundred  shocks  nothing  gets  under  her  skin  .  .  .  She 
learns  how  to  take  them  or  to  laugh  them  off  ...  A  nurse's 
thousand   and   one   nights!    .    .    .   Not   to   be   missed!   .   .   . 


A  WARNER  BROS.  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 


•^■Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


AFFAIRS     OF     ANNABELLE,     THE— Fox  — 

Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Victor  McLaglen  in  a  laugh- 
worthy  farce.    (July) 

ALMOST  A  HONEYMOON— British  Inter- 
national.— A  light  bedroom  farce.  The  gags  would 
have  been  funny  ten  years  ago.   Very  mild.     (March) 

'  ALOHA— Rogell-Tiffanv  Production.— The  old 
"Bird  of  Paradise"  plot  made  over  for  the  talkies. 
Some  quite-good  comedy  and  a  lot  of  surefire  sob 
stuff.  Ben  Lyon  and  Raquel  Torres  work  hard. 
(March) 

ALWAYS  GOODBYE—  Fox—  Elissa  Landi  gives 
a  charming  performance  in  a  rather  ordinary  piece. 
Lewis  Stone  and  Paul  Cavanagh  support  her.  See  la 
Landi.     (July) 

BACHELOR  APARTMENT— Radio  Pictures.— 
The  superb  direction  and  acting  of  Lowell  Sherman 
make  this  sophisticated  story  interesting  from  start  to 
finish.  Mae  Murray  returns  as  a  modern  vamp,  a 
restless  married  woman.    Splendid  cast.    (May) 

BACHELOR  FATHER,  THE— M-G-M.— Marion 
Davies  at  her  best  in  a  sprightly,  sophisticated  com- 
edy .^Good  for  one  million  laughs.    (Feb.) 

BAD  SISTER— Universal.— Sidney  Fox,  talented 
little  newcomer,  plays  the  title  role  in  this  entirely 
natural  story  based  on  Booth  Tarkington's  "The 
Flirt."    Conrad  Nagel  is  the  hero.    (May) 

•  BEAU  IDEAL— Radio  Pictures.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Devil's  Battalion") — A 
spectacular  sequel  to  "  Beau  Geste,"  made  with  many 
of  the  same  actors.  A  great  picture  in  which  Ralph 
Forbes,  Loretta  Young  and  Don  Alvarado  do  great 
work.    (Feb.) 

BEHIND  OFFICE  DOORS— Radio  Pictures.— 
Mary  Astor  fine  as  the  clever  secretary  who  helps  her 
boss  (Robert  Ames)  to  rise  to  importance  in  the  in- 
dustrial world.     Interesting  story.     (April) 

BEYOND  VICTORY— RKO-Pathe.—  Poor  war 
film,  starring  Bill  Boyd.  ZaSu  Pitts,  Lew  Cody  and 
Jimmy  Gleason  make  the  effort  but  can't  do  much  for 
this  one.     (May) 

BIG  BUSINESS  GIRL— First  National.— Lively 
comedy  of  1931  styles  in  business  and  love.  Plenty  of 
laughs,  some  thrills,  Ricardo  Cortez,  Frank  Albertson 
and  Loretta  Young  in  pretty  clothes.  A  good  movie. 
(May) 

•  BLUE  ANGEL,  THE— UFA-Paramount  — 
Emil  Jannings'  first  talkie  in  English.  And  it's 
a  knockout.  So  is  Marlene  Dietrich  as  the  woman 
who  drives  a  man  mad.    (Feb.) 

BODY  AND  SOUL— Fox.— See  this  one.  Great 
entertainment.  Charlie  Farrell  and  Elissa  Landi 
(from  the  stage).  You'll  like  her.  Myrna  Loy  is  the 
mean  one.     (April) 

BORN  TO  LOVE— RKO-Pathe.— Ancient  plot 
of  the  war  nurse.  Two  officers  and  whose-baby-is-it 
fails  to  be  highly  entertaining  in  spite  of  the  efforts 
of  Constance  Bennett.     (June) 

BROAD  MINDED— First  National.— Joe  E. 
Brown  tries  hard  to  bring  a  lot  of  moribund  jokes  and 
gags  back  to  life,  but  there's  scarcely  a  giggle.   (June) 

BY    ROCKET   TO   THE   MOON— UFA.— The 

Germans  present  an  interesting  lesson  in  astronomy, 
if  you  like  astronomy.     (April) 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  dull  story 
about  a  Robin-Hoodish  captain  whose  lawless  deeds 
are  all  for  a  good  end.  Victor  Varconi  and  Fay  Wray. 
(July) 

CAUGHT  CHEATING— Tiffany  Productions.— 
George  Sidney  and  Charlie  Murray  get  tangled  with 
a  Chicago  gangster's  wife  and  are  taken  for  a  ride. 
Fast-moving  and  pretty  good  fun.     (March) 

8 


CHANCES — First  National. — Young  Doug's  first 
starring  picture  is  a  war  thriller.  The  lad  is  good 
but  the  story  is  so-so.     (July) 

CHARLIE  CHAN  CARRIES  ON— Fox.— Grand 
mystery  with  lots  of  thrills  and  romance.  Warner 
Oland  marvelous  as  Chan.  John  Garrick  and  Mar- 
guerite Churchill  are  the  love  interest.     (April) 

CHERI  BIBI— M-G-M.— Jack  Gilbert  in  an  en- 
tertaining drama.  Lots  of  tragedy,  but  a  happy  end- 
ing and  Leila  Hyams  as  the  heroine.  Well  worth 
seeing.     (June) 

CHILDREN  OF  DREAMS— Warners.— A  musi- 
cal which  you  can  miss  and  think  nothing  of  it. 
(April) 

CHISELERS  OF  HOLLYWOOD— Willis  Kent 
Productions. — First-rate  entertainment.  Hokum, 
humor  and  heart.  Phyllis  Barrington,  a  newcomer, 
does  great  work.    (Feb.) 


GLAMOUR 

Mr.  Webster  may  have  de- 
fined  it  long  ago,  but  Holly- 
wood is  giving  it  new  mean- 
ing  that  the  erudite  Noah 
never  dreamed  of. 

Gone  is  the  ingenue  type, 
with  her  sweetness  and  girl- 
ish charm.     Here  comes 


Gl 


amour 


personified  in  such  actresses  as 
Gar  bo,  Dietrich,  Chatterton,  Landi, 
Swanson  and  half  a  dozen  others. 
The  new  "It"  is  here. 

Katherine  Albert  tells  you  all  about  it 
In  the  September  issue  of 

PHOTOPLAY 


•  CIMARRON— Radio  Pictures.— The  thrilling 
story  of  the  pioneer  West,  superbly  transferred 
to  the  screen.  Richard  Dix  re-establishes  himself  as 
a  star,  and  heads  a  remarkable  cast.    (Feb.) 

•  CITY  LIGHTS— Chaplin-United  Artists.— 
The  one  and  only  Chaplin  makes  another 
masterpiece.  Magnificent  comedy  and  heartbreak- 
ing pathos  intermingled.  You  can  see  it  again  and 
again.     (March) 

•  CITY  STREETS  —  Paramount.  —  Absorbing, 
fast-moving  gang  melodrama,  well  directed. 
Gary  Cooper  and  Sylvia  Sidney  (from  the  New  York 
stage)  give  grand  performances.  Don't  miss  it.  (June) 

CLEARING  THE  RANGE— Allied— Hoot  Gib- 
son and  the  wife.  Sally  Eilers.in  a  fine  Western  with 
thrills,  laughs  and  plenty  of  action.    (June:) 

COMMAND  PERFORMANCE,  THE— Cruze- 
Tiffany  Productions. — A  bright  and  spicy  comedy 
about  one  of  those  engaging  mythical  kingdoms. 
Neil  Hamilton  is  simply  grand.    (Feb.) 


COMRADES  OF  1918—  Forenfilms  —  Gruesome, 
harrowing  German  talkie  follows  the  fortunes  of  four 
young  Teuton  soldiers  in  the  last  year  of  the  late  war. 
Don't  take  the  children.    (May) 

•  CONNECTICUT  YANKEE,  A— Fox— Its 
better  than  the  silent  version  and  you'll  love 
Will  Rogers.  William  Farnum  and  Myrna  Loy  are 
excellent.  Maureen  O'Sullivan  and  Frank  Albertson 
supply  the  love  interest.     (April) 

CONQUERING  HORDE,  THE— Paramount  — 
Dick  Arlen  makes  this  Western  fine  entertainment. 
Fay  Wray  adorable  as  the  girl.     (April) 

CRACKED  NUTS— Radio  Pictures.— Wheeler 
and  Woolsey  in  a  rush  of  dialogue  to  the  screen,  and 
not  very  good  dialogue.    Amusing  in  spots.     (April) 

•  CRIMINAL  CODE,  THE— Columbia.— Don't 
miss  this  powerful  prison  drama.  You'll  never 
forget  it.  Walter  Huston  and  Phillips  Holmes  head  a 
brilliant  cast.     (Feb.) 

•  DADDY  LONG  LEGS— Fox.— The  beloved 
classic  with  Janet  Gaynor  in  a  role  just  suited 
to  her  but  just  a  little  too  saccharine.  Warner  Baxter 
as  the  bachelor.     Take  the  family.     (July) 

DAMAGED  LOVE— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— 
Pretty  mild.  June  Collyer's  charm  and  dimples 
save  it  from  being  an  entire  waste  of  time.      (March) 

DANCE  FOOLS,  DANCE— M-G-M.— Fast  and 
thrilling  entertainment.  Joan  Crawford  again  proves 
herself  a  great  dramatic  actress.  Billy  Bakewell  fine 
as  the  weak  young  brother  who  falls  in  with  gang- 
sters.    (March) 

DANCERS,  THE— Fox.— A  rambling,  younger 
generation  drama  which  isn't  at  its  best  on  the  screen. 
The  players,  including  Lois  Moran  and  Phillips 
Holmes,  do  their  best.    (Feb.) 

DAWN  TRAIL,  THE— Columbia.— A  good  Buck 
Jones  Western  with  a  rip-roarin'  fight  between  the 
sheep  and  cattle  men.    (Feb.) 

DAYBREAK— M-G-M.— The  charming  perform- 
ances of  Helen  Chandler  and  Ramon  Novarro,  as  the 
student  prince,  make  this  romantic  and  wistful  love 
story  well  worth  seeing.     (June) 

•  DEVIL  TO  PAY,  THE— United  Artists-Sam- 
uel Goldwyn. — Ronnie  Colman  breezes  through 
a  tasty,  spicy  little  comedy.  Great  cast,  sparkling 
dialogue  and  finished  production.    (Feb.) 

•  DIRIGIBLE— Columbia.— Thrilling  melo- 
drama of  adventure  at  the  South  Pole.  The 
Navy  helped  make  it  and  the  airplane  and  dirigible, 
shots  leave  you  breathless.  Ralph  Graves,  Jack  Holt 
and  Fay  Wray  take  high  honors.    (May) 

•  DISHONORED— Paramount.— Marlene 
Dietrich  exciting  as  an  Austrian  spy  in  a  tense 
story,  splendidly  directed.  Victor  McLaglen  great  as 
the  Russian  officer.     (May) 

DOCTORS'  WIVES— Fox.— Joan  Bennett,  War- 
ner Baxter  and  Victor  Varconi  in  a  story  of  jealousy. 
Not  very  convincing.     (April) 

DON'T  BET  ON  WOMEN— Fox.— Husbands, 
wives  and  lovers  mix-up.  Good  adult  entertainment, 
with  smart  dialogue.  Roland  Young,  Edmund  Lowe, 
Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Una  Merkel  make  the  most 
of  their  parts.     (April) 

DRACULA— Universal.— A  mystery  story  full  of 
creeps  and  thrills.  Helen  Chandler  grand  as  the 
terrified  heroine.     (March) 

DRUMS  OF  JEOPARDY,  THE— Tiffany  Prod. 
— Mysterv  melodrama  with  enough  murders  to  satisfy 
the  bloodthirsty.  Good  cast  headed  by  Warner  Oland 
and  June  Collyer.     (April) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  14  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


TRANSATLANTIC 


I 


The   Audience   Speaks   Its   Mind 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  6  ] 


A  GOOD  IDEA 

As  the  suggestion  of  showing  the  cast  of  char- 
acters at  the  end  of  a  motion  picture  has  never 
been  carried  out,  to  my  knowledge,  except  in 
that  grand  picture,  "Seed,"  might  I  suggest 
that  a  poster  showing  the  cast  of  the  current 
picture  be  displayed  prominently  in  the  lobby 
of  every  theater.  In  this  way,  we  could  learn 
who  the  new  players  are. 

Elizabeth  Swanson, 
Eagleville,  Conn. 

YOU'RE  BREAKING  CAROLE'S 
HEART 

It's  beyond  me  why  William  Powell  was 
chosen  to  play  Jamie  in  "Ladies'  Man."  I 
read  the  book,  and  Jamie  was  supposed  to  be 
handsome,  a  man  that  women  fall  for.  William 
Powell  is  certainly  far  from  good-looking,  and  I 
don't  care  if  Carole  Lombard  does  read  this. 
Florence  Williamson, 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 

HE  THINKS  MOVIES  ARE  ALL 
WET 

The  law  says  to  pinch  a  fellow  with  a  pint  of 
liquor.  When  I  pay  out  good  money  to  see  a 
movie,  why  must  I  sit  and  look  at  a  lot  of  guys 
gulping  down  one  glass  after  the  other  and 
getting  paid  to  do  it?  The  last  two  pictures 
I  saw  were  so  wet  the  whole  theater  nearly 
floated  away.  If  this  country  is  supposed  to 
be  dry,  why  not  have  dry  movies  as  well? 
E.  Mortensen, 
Denver,  Colo. 

GANGSTER  FILMS 

In  common  with  many  other  mothers  I  often 
worried  and  wondered  about  the  advisability 
of  permitting  our  young  children  to  view  so 
many  gangster  pictures. 

Then  my  ten-year-old  son  and  I  saw  the 
movie,  "Dance  Fools,  Dance."  It  was  during 
the  scene  where  the  young  brother  becomes  so 
deeply  involved  in  the  gang's  doings  that  his 
only  choice  was  to  murder  or  be  murdered. 

With  profound  sincerity  and  very  emphat- 
ically, my  boy  whispered,  "Gee,  ma,  believe 
me.  I  never  want  to  be  mixed  up  in  any  gang 
stuff." 

This  little  incident  proved  to  me  that  chil- 
dren learn  what  not  to  do  from  pictures. 
Hilda  H.  Bartlett, 

Oakland,  Calif. 

What  a  gloomy  atmosphere  gangster  pictures 
have  cast  upon  the  screen.  Surely  no  good  can 
come  from  pictures  in  which  the  gangster's  life 
is  pictured  as  romantic  and  appealing.  Surely 
they  are  not  beneficial  to  any  one,  especially 
children.  What  can  be  expected  when  crime 
is  glorified  on  every  corner  where  there  is  a 
motion  picture  theater?  They  can  not  cease 
too  soon  for  me. 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Hale, 
Batesville,  Ark. 

An  outstanding  gangster  picture  like  "The 
Doorway  to  Hell"  and  "Little  Caesar"  would 
be  fine  now  and  then,  but  why  should  we  have 
dozens  and  dozens  of  others  that  are  boresome 
to  the  nth  degree?  If  we  don't  care  for  gang 
pictures — well,  we  can  stay  home.  That's  just 
what  I'm  doing  and  there  are  probably  many, 
many  others  who  do  the  same  thing. 

"Seed"  was  like  a  breath  of  fresh  air  after 
the  continued  infliction  of  racketeers. 

Gail  H.  Gaston, 
Des  Moines,  Iowa 

10 


HAPPY  ENDINGS? 

I  wish  to  protest  against  these  "weepy  end- 
ings" in  pictures.  We  all  like  to  see  a  sad  pic- 
ture once  in  a  while,  and  have  a  "good  old- 
fashioned  cry,"  but  nine  out  of  ten  movie  fans 
would  rather  go  home  feeling  happy. 

It's  mighty  disappointing  to  attend  a  picture 
that  you  have  been  waiting  months  to  see,  and 
after  sitting  spellbound,  practically  living  with 
the  characters,  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  see  the 


If  you  ask  Seymour  what  one  of  the 
most  useful  mid-summer  costumes  is, 
he  will  say,  "A  silk  suit."  So  here's  a 
charming  one  worn  by  Leila  Hyams. 
Brown  and  yellow  flowers  are  scat- 
tered over  a  tan  background.  Note 
how  the  jacket  ties — and  the  hand- 
made silk  blouse  is  smart 

heroine  die  in  the  hero's  arms,  leaving  you  with 
an  empty  feeling  around  your  heart  and  tears 
in  your  eyes. 

Mary  Reid, 
N.  Woodbury,  N.  J. 

Why  do  people  keep  asking  for  "realistic" 
pictures?  Who  wants  a  heroine  who  is  exactly 
like  your  next-door  neighbor,  or  a  hero  who 
reminds  you  of  your  sisters  husband?  Don't 
people  go  to  moving  picture  shows  to  forget 
the  humdrum  of  everyday  life? 

Dorothy  Freedman, 
Whiting,  Ind. 


LOIS  WILSON 

Seeing  Lois  Wilson  in  "Seed"  made  an  eve- 
ning in  the  theater  that  I  hope  I  can  repeat.  Her 
director  might  have  made  the  last  scene,  how- 
ever, truer  to  what  one  would  find  in  a  family 
of  five  children  who  have  had  a  loving  mother. 
Such  wholesale  desertion  struck  an  unreal  note. 
At  least  one  of  those  children,  in  real  life,  would 
have  preferred  to  remain  with  the  devoted  and 
heroic  mother. 

Herman  B.  Temko, 
Greensboro,  N.  C. 

THOUGHTS 

Thoughts  while  looking  over  the  June  Pho- 
toplay: Stunning  cover!  .  .  .  that  little  Dor- 
othy Jordan  is  certainly  coming  along  .  .  . 
glad  to  see  a  brunette  forging  ahead  .  .  .  get- 
ting fed  up  on  blondes  .  .  .  The  new  colored 
gallery  is  simply  guh-rand  .  .  .  wish  a  Phillips 
Holmes  picture  would  adorn  it  .  .  .  here's 
Fredric  March  .  .  .  now,  why  do  attractive 
men  wear  mustaches?  .  .  .  That  "Skippy" 
story  is  interesting  .  .  .  how  we  did  fall  for 
that  picture  .  .  .  H-h-mm,  Cal  York  gives 
us  some  high-powered  Hollywood  gossip  this 
month  .  .  .  how  I'd  love  to  get  that  boy  off 
in  a  corner  alone  and  make  him  tell  all  .  .  . 
Notice  "Seed"  is  listed  with  the  best  pictures 
of  the  month  ...  I  should  say  so  .  .  .  Sey- 
mour certainly  knows  how  to  pick  those  styles 
.  .  .  Well,  here's  the  end  of  the  book,  and  not 
an  article  or  picture  of  Phillips  Holmes  .  .  . 
curses! 

Marguerite  Ducoing, 

San  Francisco,  Calif. 

"DADDY  LONG  LEGS" 

After  wading  and  struggling  through  the 
smoke  and  flame  of  the  gangster  picture,  and 
the  mire  of  the  too-sexy  picture,  "Daddy  Long 
Legs"  arrived,  and  a  new  hope  is  born. 

If  "Daddy  Long  Legs"  doesn't  send  you  out 
of  the  theater  full  of  lofty,  noble  thoughts, 
determined  to  go  adopt  a  few  orphans,  and  fill 
the  blind  man's  cup  to  overflowing,  nothing  will. 

I've  seen  this  picture  so  often,  and  sent  so 
many  people  to  see  it,  that  I've  been  accused 
of  having  a  part  interest  in  it! 

Chady  Lennon, 
Columbus,  Ohio 

JOAN  CRAWFORD 

After  "Laughing  Sinners"  we  have  decided 
that  Joan  Crawford  is  a  beauty  and  a  vibrant 
personality,  but  when  it  comes  to  acting  she's 
certainly  no  Garbo. 

Leona  Andrews  and  Her  Gang, 
LaFayette,  Ind. 

Joan  Crawford  in  "Laughing  Sinners"  was 
great.  But  what  I  can't  understand  is  why  her 
hair  was  dark  at  the  beginning  and  blonde  at 
the  end.  Tell  Joan  to  stick  to  her  own  red 
hair.    That's  the  way  we  like  her. 

Anne  Ovesky, 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 

CLARK  GABLE 

Clark  Gable  is  marvelous.  I've  just  seen 
him  in  "Laughing  Sinners."  When  I  saw  him 
in  "Dance  Fools,  Dance,"  I  knew  he  would  be 
wonderful  if  he  had  half  a  chance.  I  hope  he 
won't  be  cast  again  as  the  tough,  heartless 
gangster  for  he  can  be  so  kind  and — yes — lov- 
ing! 

Alberta  Finch, 
Zionsville,  Ind. 
[  please  turn  to  page  12  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


I  I 


DOROTHY  MACKAIU 


THE  RECKLE§§    HOUR 

WITH  COWRAD  HTA6II  -  HJB.  11 4R\  EK 


JOAN    BLONDELL 

WALTER  BYRON 
JOE  DONAHUE 
DOROTHY  PETERSON 

Based  on  Arthur  Richman'a  play* 
Ambush.  Adapted  by  Florence  Ryerson 

A  John   Francis   Dillon  Production 


"Vttaphone**    m    the    registered    trade- 
mark  of  The   Vitaphone  Corporation 


Love  and  lies  lead  her  to  the  reckless  hour 
with  one  man — to  marriage  with  another  ... 
Too  proud  to  accept  a  marriage  bargain, 
she  pays  the  check,  and  sets  out  to  collect 
from  the  world  of  men  .  .  .  But  her  desires 
are  stronger  than  her  hate.  Gorgeously 
gowned  Dorothy  Mackaill  as  the  model 
who  makes  her  reckless  hour  pay  dividends. 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


The  Audience   Speaks    Its   Mind 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  10  ] 


Clark  Gable's  role  in  "The  Painted  Desert," 
"Dance  Fools,  Dance,"  and  "The  Finger 
Points"  presaged  an  unusual  personality,  and 
in  "The  Secret  Six"  he  dominated  every  scene 
in  which  he  appeared. 

Joan  B.  Oates, 
Charleston,  W.  Va. 

SOCKING  THE  EDITOR 

I'll  bet  it  gave  you  a  pain  in  your  tummy  to 
have  to  write  that  editorial  in  praise  of 
"Skippy,"  a  picture  that  has  gone  over  big 
with  all  classes  of  people,  without  a  semblance 
of  sex  appeal,  racketeering  or  other  so-called 
box-office  characteristics. 

Of  course  you  had  to  take  a  slam  at  church 
folks  and,  as  usual,  you  are  wrong  again.  All 
the  church  folks  I  know  helped  put  the  picture 
over.  My  own  pastor,  for  example,  took  all 
his  children  to  see  it. 

Stop  airing  your  own  personal,  narrow-mind- 
ed views  about  prohibition.  Stop  knocking 
the  censors  and  boost  the  movies.  Heaven 
knows  some  of  them  need  it. 

Milton  W.  Stout, 
West  Liverty,  Ohio 

I  am  taking  the  liberty  of  commenting  on  an 
article  in  your  "Close-ups  and  Long  Shots"  in 
the  June  issue,  concerning  Mr.  Drinkwater's 
book,  "Carl  Laemmle." 

No  one  criticizes  a  man  who  pays  an  artist 
for  painting  his  likeness.  Why,  then,  should  a 
man  who  pays  a  biographer  to  write  his  story, 
invoke  so  much  criticism?  Don't  you  always 
find  a  portrait  painter  flatters  his  subject  a 
little? 

I  have  long  admired  you  and  your  outspoken 
stating  of  facts.     I  presume  that  you  are  fair 
and  open-minded  and  will  not-,  therefore,  resent 
this  letter  which  I  felt  I  just  had  to  write. 
Evelyn  Berson, 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

Your  "Close-Ups  and  Long  Shots"  in  the 
June  Photoplay  was  very  delightful  reading. 
It  is  so  good  to  realize  that  you  are  not  subsi- 
dized by  any  producers — and  yet  you  are  not 
a  carping  critic  or  gushing  enthusiast. 

Georgo  W.  Gaga, 
Boston,  Mass. 

INDOOR  PICNICKERS 

Do  the  talkies  have  to  be  ruined  by  people 
who  think  purchasing  a  seat  entitles  them  to 
picnic  privileges?  I  waited  months  to  see 
"Cimarron"  at  neighborhood  prices,  but  at  the 
most  dramatic  moment  the  quiet  was  savagely 
broken  by  a  woman  next  to  me  who  lustily 
pushed  her  fist  into  an  enormous  paper  bag 
and  drew  out  a  wrapped  chew,  followed  by 
more,  until  the  end  of  the  picture. 

Margaret  Brennan, 
San  Francisco,  Calif. 

GARRO 

The  biggest  thrill  of  my  Photoplay  reading 
was  the  June  Brickbats  and  Bouquets  depart- 
ment. My  warmest  regards  to  all  Garbo  fans 
for  defending  her.  There  is  no  one  like  her  in 
the  whole  world,  and  Katherine  Albert  should 
have  learned  that  by  now.  Marlene  Dietrich 
is  not  another  Garbo,  but  a  magnificent  actress 
in  her  own  right,  with  an  unique  personality 
and  charm. 

Mrs.  Leo  Menley, 

Houston,  Texas 

The  idea  of  people  saying  they  have  pur- 
chased their  last  copy  of  Photoplay  just  be- 

12 


cause  Katherine  Albert  said  a  few  things  about 
Garbo.  The  anti-Garboites  have  just  as  much 
right  to  speak  their  mind  about  Garbo  as  the 
others  have.  If  I  ever  stop  reading  Photoplay 
(and  I  never  will)  it  would  be  because  of  hearing 
too  much  about  one  person. 

Margaret  Wagner, 

Dubuque,  Iowa 

The  laudatory  sentiments  expressed  re  Greta 
Garbo  in  letters  published  in  a  recent  issue  of 
Photoplay  so  astounded  me  that  had  your 
reputation  for  integrity  in  these  matters  not 
been  known  to  me,  I  could  only  have  regarded 
them  as  pure  fiction.  My  reason  for  feeling 
this  way  is  because  the  position  is  so  different 
here  in  Australia. 

Personally,  I  think  Greta  Garbo  a  remark- 


Way  for  a  sailor!  And  a  very  smart 
way  to  be  dressed  for  yachting.  The 
well-cut,  full  trousers  are  white  flan- 
nel. The  tuck-in  sweater  is  striped  in 
gold  threads — and  the  coat  in  navy 
blue  flannel  cut  as  jauntily  as  a  mid- 
shipman's. Mae  Clarke  wears  this  in 
the  "Good  Bad  Girl" 


able  person,  but  I  can  assure  you  I  am  greatly 
in  the  minority.  Dozens  of  lesser  stars  are 
infinitely  more  popular. 

Florence  York, 
Sydney,  N.S.W.,  Australia 

Come,  come  girls,  let's  get  our  claws  out  of 
Garbo!  Because  it  is  a  too-obvious  fact  that 
every  single  brickbat  directed  toward  the  lady 
is  thrown  from  the  ranks  of  the  female  con- 
tingent. 

Peggy  Williams, 
Crystal  Springs,  Miss. 


Any  periodical  which  will  deliberately  risk 
the  loss  of  thousands  of  its  readers  by  fearlessly 
publishing  the  unbiased  opinions  of  its  writers 
surely  has  the  courage  of  its  convictions.  Pho- 
toplay has  "run  the  gauntlet"  thus  at  least 
twice  during  the  recent  past,  and  while,  indi- 
vidually, we  may  or  may  not  agree  with  the 
sentiments  expressed,  it  certainly  behooves 
every  liberal-minded  person  to  stand  solidly 
back  of  this  magazine  in  its  crusade  for  the 
freedom  of  the  press. 

Mary  Doran, 
Lindsay,  Ont.,  Can. 

OH,  I  SAY! 

Why  all  this  idiotic  fuss  about  Greta  Garbo? 
Nancy  Carroll  could  act  her  off  the  jolly  old 
screen,  and  Greta  knows  it. 

Ronald  Vine, 
Liverpool,  England 

"SKIPPY" 

After  a  picture  portraying  real  child  life  and 
the  problems  of  a  child,  as  "Skippy"  did,  there 
is  going  to  be  a  better  understanding  between 
parents  and  children. 

Lyda  Windate, 
Indianapolis,  Ind. 

RANDOM  OPINIONS 

That  soul-stirring  "Cimarron"  will  teach  a 
child  more  history  in  two  hours  than  weeks  of 
studying  books  would. 

Lou  Mackenzie, 
Milwaukee,  Wis. 

We  want  more  plays  for  children  and  less 
childish  plays  for  grown-ups. 

Jo  Beyen, 
Spokane,  Wash. 

I  read  that  Robert  Montgomery  claims  to 
be  the  only  "big  shot"  in  Hollywood  who  hasn't 
had  a  sandwich  or  salad  named  after  him. 
What  of  the  egg  salad  and  ham  sandwich? 
Lou  Stanley,  Jr., 
Waukegan,  111. 

In  my  opinion,  Brickbats  and  Bouquets  is 
the  best  feature  in  Photoplay.  I  like  to  read 
the  characters  of  the  people  as  revealed  by 
their  comments. 

And  it  gives  all  of  us  a  chance  to  compare 
our  opinions  with  so  many  others  every  month. 
Please  keep  it  up. 

Dorothy  G.  Weiner, 
Rochester,  N.  Y. 

Congratulations  to  John  Gilbert  for  his  fine 
work  in  "Gentleman's  Fate."  It  was  the  first 
time  I  had  ever  seen  him  in  a  picture,  as  I 
would  never  go  to  his  films  because  he  had  a 
moustache,  and  I  detest  them.  Mr.  Gilbert 
reformed  me  though.  His  performance  was  so 
wonderful. 

Virginia  Bruening, 

Lima,  Ohio 

Helen  Twelvetrees  took  my  breath  away  in 
"Millie."  I  have  never  been  so  entirely  lost 
to  all  my  own  world  while  watching  a  stage  or 
screen  performance. 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Tucker, 

Miami,  Okla. 

I  saw  "Daybreak"  four  times  and  think  it's 
wonderful.  Ramon  Novarro  is  still  the  man  of 
the  movies. 

Lydia  Luna, 
Washington,  D.  C. 
[  please  turn  to  page  115  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


J3 


She  wondered  why  he  lost 
interest  so  quickly 

• . .  she  never  suspected  r<rB.  O. "  until — 

-*  (Body  Odor) 


She  could  scarcely  keep  back  the  tears.  He 
had  been  so  devoted  when  they  started. 
Why  was  he  so  different  now? 

Their  romance  would  have  speedily  ended 
but  for  her  new  sister-in-law's  helpful  advice. 
She  warned  this  girl  frankly  about  "B.O." — 
body  odor — the  fault  that  so  quickly  steals 
away  charm.  Told  her  the  easy  way  to  keep 
fresh  and  dainty  even  on  the  hottest,  sultriest 
day.  And  once  she  adopted  this  simple  safe- 
guard against  offending,  her  sweetheart  fell 
in  love  with  her  all  over  again. 

Blame  yourself —  not  the  weather! 

Perspire  more  in  Summer?  Then  be  extra 
particular  about  bathing  often  with  Lifebuoy 


and  you'll  never  offend.  Not  even  a  hint  of 
"B.O." — which  others  so  quickly  notice- 
Lifebuoy's  abundant,  refreshing,  purifying 
lather  deodorizes  pores — removes  every  trace 
of  odor.  Its  pleasant,  extra-clean  scent — that 
vanishes  as  you  rinse — tells  you  "Here's 
safety  from  'B.O.!'" 

The  finest  of  complexion  soaps! 

Lifebuoy  is  the  blandest  and  mildest  of  soaps 
for  the  face,  yet  marvelously  cleansing.  Its 
creamy,  searching  lather  floods  tiny  pores — 
gently  loosens  clogged  impurities — brings 
back  healthy,  glowing  radiance  to  dull,  sal- 
low skins.  Adopt  Lifebuoy  today. 

A  product  of  LEVER  BROTHERS  CO.,  Cambridge,  Mass 


\300cL  news 

for  M  [  N  / 

Easier  shave*. .  . 
no  more 
tender  spots ! 

LIFEBUOY 

SHAVING  CREAM 

Al     YOUR.     DMJGCIST'S 


Lifebuoy 

HEALTH       SOAP  «/ 


stops  body  odor- 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


DUDE  RANCH— Paramount.— Jack  Oakie  woos 
and  wins  June  Collyer  in  this  hilarious  comedy  on  a 
dude  ranch,  locale  of  many  complications.  Not  a  dull 
moment.     (June) 


FREE  LOVE— Universal.— Conrad  Nagel  and 
Genevieve  Tobin  demonstrate  what  to  do  when  a 
woman  takes  up  psycho-analysis.  An  amusing  com- 
edy.    (Feb.) 


HELL'S  VALLEY— National  Players.  Ltd.— Very 
little  story,  if  any,  but  lots  of  riding  and  shooting  in 
this  Western,  with  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  Wally  Wales 
and  Vivian  Rich  sharing  the  acting  honors.     (June) 


EASIEST  WAY,  THE— M-G-M.— A  modern 
sophisticated  story,  beautifully  directed.  Constance 
Bennett,  Adolphe  Menjou,  Anita  Page  and  Bob 
Montgomery  do  some  grand  acting — and  what 
costumes!     (March) 

•  EAST  LYNNE— Fox.— Don't  miss  this  one. 
Beautiful,  artistic  production  of  the  heart- 
breaking old  melodrama.  Ann  Harding  captivat- 
ingly  beautiful.  Fine  support  by  Conrad  Nagel  and 
Clive  Brook.     (April) 

EVERYTHING'S  ROSIE— Radio  Pictures.— One 
of  the  talkiest  talkies  yet  released.     (July) 

•  FAME — First  National. — Beautifully  and  hu- 
manly told  story  of  everyday  people.  Nothing 
spectacular,  but  full  of  charm.  Doris  Kenyon  heads 
a  perfect  cast.     (June) 

FAST  AND  LOOSE— Paramount.— A  pleasant 
little  comedy  about  the  rich  girl  who  falls  in  love  with 
the  working  man.  Miriam  Hopkins  debuts  success- 
fully as  the  girl.    (Feb.) 

FIFTY  MILLION  FRENCHMEN— Warners.— 

American  tourists  in  Paris.  Moves  so  fast  it  leaves 
you  weak.  One  good  gag  after  another.  Don't 
miss  it.     (March) 

FIGHTING  CARAVANS— Paramount.— Ycur 
old  friend,  "The  Covered  Wagon,"  gone  talkie  just  a 
bit  late.  The  scenes  are  beautiful  and  Ernest  Tor- 
rence  and  Tully  Marshall  are  on  hand  in  their  original 
rdles.    (Feb.) 

FIGHTING  THRU  —  Tiffany  Productions.  — 
Worth  the  price  of  admission.  Ken  Maynard  and 
his  horse  "Tarzan"  do  some  fine  work  and  the 
beautiful  Jeanette  Loff  helps  considerably.      (March) 


FINGER  POINTS,  THE— First  National.— Dick 
Barthelmess  as  a  reporter  for  one  of  Chicago's  biggest 
newspapers,  gets  in  with  gangsters.  An  intensely 
absorbing  story.  Fay  Wray  and  Regis  Toomey  give 
splendid  support.     (May) 

FINN  AND  HATTIE— Paramount— One  long 
howl.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Haddock's  trip  abroad  ruined  by 
a  fiendish  nephew  and  a  daughter,  played  well  by 
Jackie  Searl  and  Mitzi  Green.     (April) 

FLOOD,  THE— Columbia.— A  weak,  poorly 
directed  story  which  the  good  acting  of  Eleanor 
Boardman  and  Monte  Blue  cannot  save.     (July) 

FOR  THE  LOVE  O'  LIL— Columbia.— Naughty 
in  a  very  nice  way,  this  story  of  married  life  manages 
to  be  reasonably  entertaining.  Jack  Mulhall,  Sally 
Starr,  Elliott  Nugent  and  Margaret  Livingston  play 
it.     (Feb.) 


•  FREE  SOUL,  A— M-G-M— Norma  Shearer 
and  Lionel  Barrymore  in  a  picture  that  will 
hold  you,  but  in  plot  and  treatment  it's  for  grown-ups 
only.     (July) 

•  FRONT  PAGE,  THE— United  Artists.— 
Whirlwind  newspaper  talkie,  full  of  thrills, 
laughs  and  sobs.  You've  simply  got  to  see  it.  Adolphe 
Menjou  great  as  the  managing  editor.     (May) 

•  GANG  BUSTER,  THE  —  Paramount.  — 
Comedy-melodrama  with  Jack  Oakie  at  his 
best.  William  (stage)  Boyd  menaces  as  the  gang 
leader  and  Jean  Arthur  is  the  pretty  heroine.    (March) 

•  GENTLEMAN'S  FATE  —  M-G-M.  —  This 
tense  drama  brings  us  Jack  Gilbert  with  all 
his  old  appeal.  The  beautiful  Leila  Hyams  and  Anita 
Page  support  him  and  Louis  Wolheim  gives  a 
flawless    performance.     (March) 

GIRL     FROM     THE     REEPERBAHN,     THE 

(DAS  MAEDEL  VON  DER  REEPERBAHN)— Sonor 

Prod. — The  Germans  crash  through  with  a  good 
one.  Grim  melodrama  with  plenty  of  action  and 
some  good  songs.     (April) 

GIRLS  DEMAND  EXCITEMENT— Fox.— Mar- 
guerite Churchill,  John  Wayne,  Virginia  Cherrill  and 
William  Janney  are  a  fine  cast  wasted  in  a  story  that 
never  rings  true.     (April) 

GOD'S  GIFT  TO  WOMEN— Warners— Frank 
Fay  is  the  gift — Laura  La  Plante  the  receiver,  but 
after  many  hilarious  complications.  Well  worth  see- 
ing.    (May) 

GOLD  DUST  GERTIE— Warners.— Exuberant 
Winnie  Lightner  gambols  through  a  poor  story.  (July) 

GOOD  BAD  GIRL,  THE— Columbia.— The  old 
plot  of  the  girl  who  leaves  the  racket  to  marry  and  go 
straight.     (July) 

•  GREAT  MEADOW,  THE— M-G-M— A  stir- 
ring and  exciting  yarn  of  pioneering,  with 
Eleanor  Boardman  a  brilliant  member  of  the  distin- 
guished cast.    (Feb.) 

GUN  SMOKE— Paramount.— Great  for  the  kids, 
this  old-time  Western  melodrama,  with  Dick  Arlen  as 
a  cowboy,  Mary  Brian,  the  girl,  and  William  Boyd, 
the  menace.    (May) 

HATE  SHIP,  THE— British  International.— A 
fairly  gripping  old-school  melodrama — thrills  and 
mystery  on  board  a  yacht.    (Feb.) 

HELL  BOUND— Cruze-Tiffany  Prod.— Good  gang 
story  if  you're  not  tired  of  them.  Leo  Carrillo  plays 
the  broken-Englished  speakeasy  operator  and  Lola 
Lane  is  completely  charming.     (April) 


HIGH  STAKES— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  an  amateur  detective  is  the  main  reason  for 
seeing  this.  Mae  Murray  is  the  woman  in  the  case. 
(July) 


HOLE  IN  THE  WALL,  THE  (Nar  Rosorna 
Sla  Ut)  —  Paramount.  —  Swedish  talkie  brings  us 
Sven  Gustafsson,  Garbo's  brother,  but  nothing  like 
his  famous  sister.  Light  and  chatty  love  story. 
(April) 


HONOR  AMONG  LOVERS— Paramount.— 
Good  dialogue  in  this  story  of  love  between  boss  and 
secretary,  with  excellent  performances  by  Fredric 
March,  Claudette  Colbert  and  that  Ace  of  Cads, 
Monroe  Owsley.     (May) 


HOOK,  LINE  AND  SINKER— Radio  Pictures.— 
That's  how  you'll  go  for  this  latest  gem  of  Wheelcr- 
Woolsey  nonsense.  The  monkey  business  is  perpe- 
trated in  gangland.    (Feb.) 


HOW  HE  LIED  TO  HER  HUSBAND— British 

International. — George  Bernard  Shaw  surrenders  to 
the  talkies.  Amusing,  if  you  like  the  Shaw  wit. 
(March) 


INDISCREET  —  United  Artists.  —  Good,  enter- 
taining story.  Gloria  Swanson  sings  well.  Ben  Lyon 
and  Arthur  Lake  great  support.     (June) 


INSPIRATION— M-G-M.— Garbo  was  never 
lovelier  than  in  this  very  modern  story  of  the  indiscreet 
woman  and  the  price  she  pays.  Lewis  Stone,  Robert 
Montgomery  and  Marjorie  Rambeau  lend  Greta 
strong  support.     (Ftb.) 


IRON  MAN — Universal. — Lew  Ayres  is  starred  as 
the  prize-fighter  but  Bob  Armstrong,  in  the  r61e  of 
manager,  steals  the  picture.  Jean  Harlow  plays  her 
usual  vamp  role.     (June) 


IT  PAYS  TO  ADVERTISE— Paramount.— The 
old  stage  play  revamped  for  the  talkies  with  plenty 
of  speed  and  lots  of  laughs.  Skeets  Gallagher,  Nor- 
man Foster  and  Carole  Lombard  head  a  perfect  cast. 
(April) 


•  IT'S  A  WISE  CHILD— M-G-M.— Marion 
Davies'  rare  gift  for  comedy  and  Robert 
Leonard's  direction  make  this  old  stage  play  a  brand 
new  hilarious  farce  not  to  be  missed.    (May) 


JAWS  OF  HELL— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— De- 
picts the  old  poem  "The  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade" 
and  makes  the  charge  a  pretty  thrilling  business.  The 
romantic  story's  a  bit  weak.     (March) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  116  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list. 


Page 

Alexander  Hamilton — Warners 56 

An  American  Tragedy — Paramount.  .  .   57 

Common  Law,  The— RKO-Pathe 59 

Confessions  of  a  Co- Ed— Paramount. . .   59 
Der  Grosse  Tenor  (The  Great  Tenor) — 

UFA 104 

Ex-Bad  Boy — Universal 59 

Expensive  Women — Warners 103 

Five  and  Ten— M-G-M 59 

Forbidden  Adventure — Paramount. ...   56 

Girl  Habit,  The — Paramount 57 

Goldie— Fox 103 


U 


Page 

Holy  Terror,  A— Fox 104 

Hush  Money — Fox 104 

I  Take  This  Woman — Paramount 58 

Laughing  Sinners — M-G-M 103 

Lawless  Woman,  The — Chesterfield .  .  .  104 

Le  Million — Tobis  Production 58 

Lover  Come  Back — Columbia 104 

Man  in  Possession,  The — M-G-M 58 

Miracle  Woman,  The — Columbia 56 

Night  Angel,  The — Paramount 59 

Night  Nurses — Warners 57 

Rebound— RKO-Pathe 58 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 90  1 


Page 
Reckless  Hour,  The — First  National.  ..103 

Ships  of  Hate — Trem  Carr 104 

Son  of  India— M-G-M 59 

Squaw  Man,  The— M-G-M 58 

Sweepstakes— RKO-Pathe 104 

Three  Loves — Terra 104 

Three  Who  Loved— Radio  Pictures. ...  103 

Transgression — Radio  Pictures 104 

Two  Gun  Man,  The— Tiffany 104 

Viking,   The — Varick   Frissell  Produc- 
tion     58 

Women  Love  Once — Paramount 103 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


!5 


Take  them  to  the  Dentist, 

JMother, 
before  school  starts! 


IN  CHICAGO  nine  children 
in  every  ten  need  dental  care ! 
That  is  true  in  Cleveland,  New 
York  and  other  cities.  Those  are 
tragic  facts  brought  out  by  sur- 
veys. 

Shocking, thatsuch  conditions 
can  exist.  But  don't  lay  it  to  par- 
ents' carelessness  too  quickly. 
Few  people  realize  how  rapidly 
children's  teeth  decay.  Still 
fewer  know  it  is  important  to 
keep  first  teeth  repaired. 

It's  a  wrong  but  common  belief  that 
baby  teeth  don't  matter.  First  teeth 
diseased  may  ruin  those  to  follow. 
Many  systemic  troubles  of  later  years 
are  the  result.  Watch  them  —  guard 
them  under  your  dentist's  supervision. 


FRESH-AIR  TAXICAB 

MOTHER:  Simply  write  a  note  giving  your  child's  name  and  address— also  name 
of  dentist  and  date  of  visit.  Address  the  Pepsodent  Company,  Chicago,  111.  The 
free  Amos  *a*  Andy  prize  will  go  forward  at  once.  Expires  October  1st. 


Why  we  sponsor  this  advertisement 

The  Pepsodent  Company  publishes  this 
advertisement  because  our  business  is 
built  upon  the  vital  principle  of  better 
teeth.  We  know  that  as  people  go  to 
dentists  they  become"tooth  conscious.  " 
They  pay  more  attention  to  their  teeth. 
Hence  our  interest  becomes  partly 
selfish,  for  it's  those  who  are  most  con- 


cerned about  their  teeth  that 
eventually  turn  to  Pepsodent — 
the  film -removing  tooth  paste. 

What  film  does 

Your  dentist  will  tell  you  about 
film  on  teeth.  That  it  should 
be  removed  because  it  harbors 
destructive  germs  of  tooth  decay 
and  other  troubles. 

Film  glues  germs  to  teeth  so 
stubbornly  ordinary  ways  cannot 
remove  it.  Film  absorbs  the 
stains  from  food  and  smoking  and  makes 
teeth  unattractive. 

Pepsodent  tooth  paste  removes  film — 
gently.  It  embodies  the  finest,  softest 
polishing  agent  known.  Pepsodent  is 
safe,  completely  safe,  to  the  softest 
children's  teelh.  Use  Pepsodent  twice 
each  day.  See  your  dentist  twice  a  year. 
Get  it  at  your  drug  store  today. 


l-^/^T^C  /^/i  Of!  i Use  Pepsodent  twice  a  day — see 

-*-    ^^O^-'Vl.V'XAl*        your  dentist  at  least  twice  a  year. 


t  Y 


our 


Perf 


lime 


E 


xpress 


You 


Shelves  of  gleaming  bottles  in  every 
imaginable  scent  fill  this  unique  per- 
fume   nook   in   Bebe    Daniels'    Santa 
Monica  beach  home 


PERFUME  through  the  ages  has  lent  its  subtle  fragrance 
as  aid  to  feminine  self-expression.  Girls  who  write  to  me 
seeking  to  solve  the  mystery  of  that  elusive  thing  called 
personality  may  be  surprised  to  know  that  even  the  deli- 
cate touch  of  perfume  can  become  so  much  a  part  of  a  person 
that  its  fragrance  is  the  essence  of  her  personality.  Haven't  you 
often  picked  up  a  scented  handkerchief  whose  owner  you 
identified  immediately  because  the  perfume  on  it  told  more 
than  a  monogram  could? 

Perfume  can  be  badly  abused — and  often  is.  It  loses  its 
charm  completely  when  it  is  obvious.  Perfume  shouldn't  jump 
out  at  one,  rather  it  should  steal  upon  the  senses  delicately  and 
subtly.  Nothing  takes  the  joy  out  of  using  a  perfume  yourself 
quite  so  much  as  to  suddenly  meet  someone  who  flaunts  it  as 
loudly  as  a  bright  red  scarf.  You  always  feel  like  going  home 
and  pitching  your  own  bottle  out,  regardless  of  how  much  you 
paid  for  it. 

It  is  a  real  art  to  apply  perfume  so  that  its  scent  will  linger. 
Many  of  the  stars  use  an  atomizer  so  that  the  fragrance  is 
vaporized  on  the  skin.  The  contact  of  perfume  with  the  skin 
brings  out  the  true  scent — and  it  is  more  likely  to  last. 

Creating  an  ensemble  between  your  perfumes  and  your 
cosmetics  is  a  good  way  to  have  your  own  particular  fragrance 


predominate.  It  is  quite  possible  to  obtain 
powders  for  face  and  bath,  sachets  for  your 
handkerchiefs  and  lingerie,  and  bath  salts,  all  in 
the  same  scent  as  your  perfume.  The  harmony 
is  especially  charming. 

The  French  women,  who  are  skilled  in  the  per- 
fume art,  have  a  clever  way  of  keeping  their 
clothes  constantly  scented.  They  have  several 
small  pads  of  flannel,  which  have  been  dipped  in 
the  perfume,  sewed  to  their  frocks  in  various 
places.  Flannel  retains  perfume  for  an  in- 
definite length  of  time.  Kid  also  can  be  used 
for  the  same  purpose.  An  idea  for  using  up  your 
old  gloves! 

YOU  will  discover  that  the  perfumers  are 
making  a  definite  effort  to  promote  the  in- 
dividual idea  in  perfumes.  They  are  showing 
fragrances  that  suit  every  taste  and  type.  One 
house  has  a  perfume  that  is  supposed  to  express 
color;  another  tries  to  kid  you  that  it  ties  up 
with  the  stars  that  govern  your  destiny.  Some 
are  merely  numbered  with  a  description  of  the 
types  they  are  most  suited  to.  Other  perfumes 
are  made  to  be  worn  only  on  furs.  And  all  the 
houses  have  wonderfully  blended  floral  odors 
that  just  seem  to  express  you  as  you  wish  to 
seem! 

Try  to  decide  upon  your  type  before  you  start 
out  to  buy  your  perfume,  otherwise  you  will  be 
bewildered  by  the  many  scents  that  greet  you  in 
the  shops.    If  you  are  a  blonde,  don't  go  in  for 
pungent,  exotic  odors.    The  light,  spicy  or  floral 
scents  are  for  you.    If  you  are  the  demure  type, 
use  a  perfume  that  has  delicacy  to  it.    Perhaps 
something  with  violet  or  lavender  in  it.    Brunettes  can  dare  to 
tempt  the  oriental,  heady  perfumes.    The  animated  girl  should 
use  one  that  has  a  dashing,  spicy  feeling  to  it.    You  will  find  it 
great  fun  to  experiment  and  to  find  the  one  scent  out  of  hun- 
dreds that  seems  to  say  "you."       [  please  turn  to  page  96  ] 


WOULD  you  like  to  know  what  perfumes  are 
new  and  what  ones  suit  your  particular  type? 
Send  me  a  description  of  yourself  and  I  will  be  glad 
to  tell  you.  Also  if  you  are  overweight,  send  for  my 
booklet  of  normalizing  exercises  and  non-fattening 
menus.  My  complexion  leaflet  gives  help  for  black- 
heads or  acne.  A  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope 
will  bring  you  either,  or  both,  or  any  other  advice 
on  personal  problems.  There  is  no  charge  and  your 
letters  will  be  held  in  strict  confidence. 

Address    me    at    PHOTOPLAY,    221    West    57th 
Street,  New  York  City. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


10 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


'7 


blonde?  brunette?   bedhead?  ¥>rownette? 
What  is  Your  Type  in 

MAKE-UP? 

JDe  Like 
a  Screen  Star 


...Have  Max  Factor,  Holly- 
wood's   Make-Up    Genius, 
Create  Your  True  Color  Har- 
mony in  the  Society  Make-Up 
Ensemble,  and  Discover  Holly- 
wood's Magic  Way  to  Beauty. 

Accept  This  Price/ess  Cjift  Now  .  .  .  Mail  Coupon 

OUT  of  the  motion  picture  world  which  is  Hollywood 
comes  the  most  revolutionary  beauty  discovery  ot  the  age 
...color  harmony  in  make-up  individualized  for  every  type  in 
blonde,  brunette,  redhead  and  brownette.  Powder,  rouge,  lipstick, 
eyeshadow. ..  the  complete  ensemble  called  Society  Make-Up... 
to  blend  with  every  variation  in  complexion  coloring. 

Created  first  for  the  stars  of  the  screen  by  Max  Factor,  Hollywood's 
Make-Up  Genius . . .  Now  you,  yourself,  may  discover  what  wonders  this  new 
kind  of  make-up  will  do  to  enhance  your  beauty  and  emphasize  the  charm 
and  fascination  of  your  personality. 

Before  your  very  eyes,  in  hundreds  of  feature  pictures,  you  have  seen 
its  magic  influence  in  creating  faultless  beauty,  for  Max  Factor's  is  used 
exclusively  in  all  big  Hollywood  studios,  in  all  Technicolor  Pictures,  and 
by  96%  of  all  Hollywood's  Screen  Stars. 

Colors  in  powder,  rouge,  lipstick,  etc.,  so  alive  with  natural  beauty 
as  to  give  a  new  radiance  to  the  star  herself.  Texture  so  fine  as  to  blend 
indetectably  with  the  skin.  Adherent  qualities  so  wonderful  that  make-up 
appears  always  as  a  part  of  nature's  artistry.  And  the  make-up  ensem- 
ble so  lovely  in  color  harmony,  so  exquisitely  emphasizing 
every  natural  bit  of  beauty  that  even  the  blazing  motion 
picture  lights,  bright  as  the  sun,  cannot  find  a  flaw   to 
expose  to  the  searching  lens  of  the  camera. 

What  a  revelation  in  new  beauty  your  own  color  har- 
mony in  Society  Make-Up  will  be  to  you.  And  Max  Factor, 
who   for   twenty  years  has  been   personal   make-up  advisor  to 
Hollywood's  stars,  will  analyze  your  complexion  and  chart  your 
own   individual  color   harmony,  for   both   daytime  and   evening 
wear,  in  Society  Make-Up. 

A  priceless  beauty  gift  for  the  asking ..  .just  mail  the  coupon. 

MAXaFACTOR'S  Society  MAKE-UP 


You  II  Discover 

Why  all  Blondes  or  all  Brun- 
ettes should  not  use  the  same 
color  harmony  in  make-up. 

Why  Brownettes  and  Titians 
may  ruin  beauty  with  "off- 
color"  make-up. 

How  to  acquire  a  perfect  skin 
forfaultless  everyday  make-up. 

How  to  make-up  a  dry  skin. 

How  to  make-up  an  oily  skin.    : 

The  difference  between  thea-   ■ 
trical  and  street  make-up.   ' 

Three  secrets  of  successful  every 
dav  make-up. 

Answers  to  twelve  troublesome 
make-up  problems. 

How  new  beauty  effects  are 
created  in  the  laboratory  for 
.    the  screen  stars. 


JOAN  CRAWFORD 

M-G-M  Star  in 

'Laughing  Sinner: 

"  //  is  a  real  pleasure  to 
recommend  Max  Factor's 
Make- Up, tvhicJi  has  been 
a  great  aid  in  both  my 
screen  work  and  social 


JEAN  HARLOW 

in  M-G-M' 1  "The  Semi  Six" 
with  Mux  Fader — HollywooS  i 

Md  ■  f  ■  L  p    Genius  —  applying 
fatt  pc-.iJer  in  the  tent.:  . 
harmony  w:n. 


"  MAIL  FOR  YOUR  COMPLEXION  ANALYSIS 

Mr.  Max  Factor — Max  Factor  Studios,  Hollywood,  Calif.  1-8-41 

Please  send  me,  without  obligation,  my  complexion  analysis,  my  make-up  color 
harmony  chart,  and  your  48-page  illustrated  book,  "The  New  Art  of  Society 
Make-Up".    I  enclose  10c  (coin  or  stamps)  for  postage  and  handling. 


.AAJtl. 

ti^jos. 


osmetics  of  the  Stars  ^^-  HOLLYWOOD 

96%  of  all  mjke-up  including  Technicolor  used  by  Hollywood's  Screen  Stars  and  Studios  is  Max  Factor's. 
(Las  Angelei  Chamber  of  Comment  Statiittti)  ©  i$Jl  Max  Fai.'or 


Or- 


COMPLEXION 


COLOR  Pi  ES 


COLOR  LASHES 


COLOR  HAIR 


r  wiih  Check  M 


gj 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


e  kad 

"IT" 

VJhe  unoncf  kind  ] 


SHE  was  such  a  pretty  girl,  with  so 
much  fascination  and  charm,  that  if 
you  didn't  know  her  you  would  half-way 
suspect  that  every  eligible  man  in  the 
club  was  in  love  with  her. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  they  avoided  her. 
They  dodged  her  on  the  course  and  in 
the  club  house,  feeling  that  if  they  met 
her  they  would  be  forced  to  ask  her  to 
their  parties.  The  women  felt  the  same 
way  about  her.  They  admitted  her  charm, 
but  they  didn't  want  her  around. 

The  truth  is,  the  girl  had  "it."  But  the 
wrong  kind  of  "it."  The  kind  of  'it  that 
people  don't  desire.  The  kind  of '  it '  that 
the  victim  never  realizes.  In  the  medical 
world  they  call  it  halitosis.  In  plain  lan- 
guage, it  is  unpleasant  breath.  Under 
any  name,  it  is  the  one  unforgivable 
fault.  Unforgivable  because  inexcusable. 
There  is  a  remedy,  and  it's  simple  and 
pleasant. 


LISTERINE    promptly    overcomes 
odors  other  antiseptics  fail  to  mask  in  4  days 

Medical  men  pronounce  it  ideal  antiseptic  because  safe  to  use 


Searching  scientific  tests  show  that  Lister- 
ine,  always  the  safest  of  antiseptics,  is  now 
the  swiftest  of  deodorants — the  ideal  solu- 
tion for  oral  hygiene. 

It  is  your  safest,  surest,  and  most  de- 
lightful aid  in  overcoming  halitosis  (un- 
pleasant breath),  the  unforgivable  social 
and  business  fault.  Use  it  every  morning. 
Every  night.  And  between  times,  before 
meeting  others. 

Ninety-five  per  cent  of  all  halitosis  is 
caused  by  fermentation  of  tiny  food  parti- 
cles the  tooth  brush  has  failed  to  remove. 
Another  5%  is  caused  by  oral  infections. 
Listerine,  because  highly  germicidal,  in- 
stantly halts  fermentation  and  attacks  in- 
fection. 


Immediate  deodorant  effect 

"Listerine  immediately  overcomes  odors 
that  ordinary  mouthwashes  fail  to  conceal 
in  4  days,"  says  a  noted  analytical  chemist. 

THE  SAFE  ANTISEPTIC  .  . 

KILLS   GERMS   IN    FASTEST  TIME  ACCURATELY    RECORDED    HY   SCIENCE 


"Such  amazing  deodorant  power,  coupled 
with  swift,  germicidal  action,  makes  Lister- 
ine the  superior  solution  for  oral  use." 

Pleasant  to  taste 

In  addition  to  these  qualities,  Listerine  has 
a  pleasant  taste  and  invigorating  effect  in 
the  mouth. 

What  a  delightful  contrast  to  sickish, 
flat-tasting  mouthwashes  so  harsh  that  they 
must  be  diluted  before  using. 

Won't  harm  tissue  or  teeth 

What  a  comfort  to  realize  that,  no  matter 
how  often  Listerine  is  used  full  strength,  it 
does  not  harm  the  tissue,  nor  attack  tooth 
structure  or  metal  fillings,  as  some  antiseptic 
mouthwashes  do.  Indeed,  Listerine' s  effect 
on  both  is  beneficial.  Send  for  our  free 
Book  of  Etiquette,  Dept.  P.  8,  Lambert 
Pharmacal  Company,  2101  Locust  Street, 
St.  Louis,  Missouri,  U.  S.  A. 


T  TERE  is  Lupe  Velezf  "Garee"  looking  genial  in  spite  of  the 
A  -■•feet  that  the  frivolous  frijole  said,  "I  nevair  marry  heem." 
So  Big  Boy  Cooper  packed  sombrero  and  lariat  and  is  off  to  Italy 
to  convalesce  from  a  recent  illness  and  forget  his  little  tamale. 
But  his  latest  film  is  "I  Take  This  Woman" 


A  FTER  her  first  few  films  everybody  said  Joan  Bennett  was 
-*  ^-through  in  pictures.  But  the  younger  and  paler  of  the  amaz- 
ing sisters  remained  to  show  Connie  and  the  rest  of  the  world 
she  had  her  share  of  Bennett  talent.  She's  a  fixture  now  in  Holly 
wood — with  a  big  home  and  a  big  contract 


JANET  GAYNOR  crosses  her  heart  and  hopes  to  die  that  it's 
Goodness  and  Light  from  now  on.  Her  fans  simply  doted  on 
her  in  sugar-coated  "Daddy  Long  Legs,"  so  her  next  will  be 
"Merely  Mary  Ann"  with  her  old  friend  and  screen  lover,  Charlie 
Farrell.    And  her  marriage?    Everything  seems  fine  so  far 


THEY'RE  making  a  big  fuss  over  Ruth  Chatter  ton's  contract. 
Will  she  go  to  Warners  or  remain  with  Paramount?  Who 
cares  who's  her  boss  as  long  as  she  continues  to  make  good  pictures? 
Ruth  has  held  her  place  as  one  of  the  First  Ladies  of  the  Cinema 
despite  some  unfortunate  breaks  in  screen  vehicles 


F 


ACE     POWDER 


It  delights  new  users  daily — the 
way  Coty  matches  every  com- 
plexion tone  and  the  varying 
needs  of  the  changing  seasons! 
The  powder  you  use  in  Winter 
is  usually  too  pale  for  a  natural 
match  in  Summer.  Choose  from 
Coty's  twelve  exquisite  tones — 
make  people  admire  your  face; 
not  notice  your  powder!  In  the 
gay  golden  box  with  white 
powder-puffs     .     .    one  dollar. 


MAKE-UP  f  THAT  MEETS  THE   TEST  OF  OUTDOOR   DAYS 


L  I   P  S  T  I  C  K—  brilliant, 

vivid,  natural,  and  indelible  with 
complete  safety!  This  Coty  Lip- 
stick—  Permanent — is  the  most 
exciting  lipstick  news  of  the 
season!  You'll  adore  its  rich, 
creamy  consistency,  a  caress  to 
the  lips.  Three  shades  —  round, 
etched  case    .     .      one  dollar. 


Lip    Secrets" — a    booklet     lor    lovelier    hps,    sent    on     request.     Coty,     Dept.    P  8,     7)4     Fifth    Avenue,     New    York 


#5  ELINOR  GLYN 


Jaud- 


icw< 


OlOT  U  yow  maaic  key  to  Romance 


Before  you  wash 

another  dress  or  hit  of  lingerie 

study  these  photographs 


*  ,. 

J* 

^m 

%j!$ 

'  *f 

^ 

A 

H» 

These  photographs  hased  on 
laboratory  washing  tests  show  the 
tremendous  difference  between 
Lux  and  ordinary  soaps  in  their 
effect  on  color.  Look  at  these  i 
pieces  of  the  same  flowered  silk. 


With  ordinary  soap 

Six  washings  in  ordinary  soap 
have  left  this  charming  printed 
silk  (above)  faded  and  streaked. 


With  gentle  Lux 

Another  piece  of  the  same  silk, 
Luxed  6  times,  is  color-perfect; 
not  a  bit  of  fading  or  streaking! 


The  lingerie  above,  washed  12 
times  in  ordinary  soap,  is  faded, 
streaked  and  worn.  Duplicate 
lingerie,  at  the  right.  Luxed  the 
same  number  of  times,  is  still  un- 
faded,  lustrous,  like  new! 


COLOR  is  magic!  It  can  transform  even  a 
plain  little  Jenny-Wren  sort  of  girl  into  a 
starry-eyed  beauty  ...  be  her  key  to  romance. 

"  Be  careful  to  wear  the  colors  that  suit^o« 
best.  And  after  you've  chosen  your  colors,  do 
take  care  never  to  let  them  fade,  because — 

1.  Even  a  little  fading  robs  a  color  of 
its    'live,'     thrilling    quality    and — 

2.  may  change  it  into  a  shade  that  is 
actually  wrong  for  you. 

"One  tone  of  green,  for  example,  will  make 
you  sparkling-eyed,  clear-skinned.  A  slightly 
different  tone  makes  you  sallow.  So  never, 
never  risk  color  fading! 

"  But,  after  all,  it's  very  easy  to  prevent 
fading!  I.ux  is  especially  made  to  preserve 
color.  One  is  never  sure  of  the  ordinary  'good ' 
soap.  It  so  often  takes  out  at  least  a  little 
color  as  it  cleanses,  but  Lux  is  always  safe. 

"  And  remember,  too,  that  not  only  in  your 
clothes  but  in  your  surroundings,  color  casts 
a  magic  spell! 

"So  cherish  the  beauty  of  color  in 
your  surroundings  ...  in  draperies, 
slip  covers,  even  the  linens  on  your 
dinner  table  .  .  .  keep  it  utterly  per- 
fect with  Lux." 


yuusn 


No  matter  what  the  color . . .  if  it's  safe  in  water  alone,  it's  just  as  safe  in  LUX 


August,  1931 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots 


By 

James  R.  Quirk 


WATCH  young  Doug  Fairbanks. 
I  firmly  believe  that  lad  is  going 
places  and  doing  things  in 
motion  pictures.  A  short  time  ago  I  sat  all 
one  Saturday  afternoon  with  him,  listening 
to  his  aspirations,  his  theories  of  motion 
pictures,  and  incidentally  to  his  praise  of 
his  wife,  Joan  Crawford,  and  his  expres- 
sions of  admiration  for  his  dad.  I  was  fas- 
cinated with  the  agility  of  his  mind,  his  humility,  and 
his  sound  and  clear  thinking. 

I  hope  Hollywood  doesn't  get  him,  and  I  do  not 
think  it  will. 


AND  while  we  are  engaged  in  the  precarious  task 
of  picking  comers,  there  is  Carole  Lombard  who, 
by  this  time,  according  to  the  announcements,  is  Mrs. 
William  Powell. 

The  girl  has  a  definite  personality,  and  a  year  should 
see  her  away  up  with  Garbo,  Bennett  and  Dietrich. 

Maybe  numerology,  changing  the  spelling  of  her 
name  from  Carol  to  Carole,  had  something  to  do  with 
it.  But  we  are  more  inclined  to  think  it  is  because  the 
girl  is  attractive — Powell  certainly  thought  so — is  a 
natural  born  actress,  and  has  an  all-abiding  faith  in 
Carole  Lombard. 


FOUR-FIFTHS  of  the  average  gangster  pictures 
depict  the  criminal  living  a  life  of  indolence,  silk 
bath  robes  and  Jean  Harlow  embraces.  In  the  other 
one-fifth,  the  tough  one  must,  automatically,  go  to  jail 
or  be  painlessly  rubbed  out  by  a  bullet.  To  say  that 
most  of  these  pictures  preach  a  moral  lesson  is  pure 
bunk. 

I  was  coming  out  of  a  theater  after  "  The  Secret  Six" 
was  shown  and  happened  to  overhear  two  lads  dis- 
cussing it. 


"What  saps  those  guys  were,"  said  one 
of  them.  "If  they'd  used  a  little  sense 
they'd  have  gotten  away  with  it.  Dumb — 
all  of  them." 


J. 


ACK  GILBERT'S  million  dollar  docu- 
ment with  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  runs 
out  this  year. 

Wonder  what  will  happen  to  the  boy? 

He  has  had  a  pretty  miserable  two  years  of  it,  with 
an  unsuccessful  marriage  and  a  collection  of  weak 
pictures  to  struggle  through.  His  company  has  tried 
all  types  of  stories  for  him,  but  nothing  has  quite 
clicked. 

I  am  afraid  bidding  will  not  be  too  hectic  for  Jack's 
time  and  manly  beauty  when  the  Metro  contract 
expires.  He's  in  a  tough  spot,  and  we  must  all  pull 
hard  for  him,  for  he's  a  fine  actor  and  a  swell  guy,  too. 

Yes,  it's  been  a  trying  couple  of  seasons  for  Mr. 
Gilbert.  At  that,  you  can  wipe  away  a  lot  of  tears 
with  a  ten-thousand-dollar  pay  check  every  week! 


THEY  are  sneaking  up  on  us  with  a  picture  to  be 
called  "The  Mystery  of  Life,"  which  will  tell  and 
show  us  what  Clarence  Darrow  and  a  college  zoologist 
think  is  the  right  dope  on  evolution. 

They  promise  to  give  us  more  pictures  of  this  sort  if 
we  demonstrate  box-office  interest  in  this  one.  If 
they'll  put  Mickey  Mouse  and  a  Sennett  comedy  on 
the  same  bill,  I'll  see  it. 


"/"^\NE  of  the  things  Hollywood  has  indubitably 

V_^/to  learn  is  that  expenditure  is  no  substitute  for 
brains.  More  courage,  more  brains — and  less  money: 
There  is  the  prescription." 

We  are  quoting  Professor  William  Orton   in    The 


.  Ulantic  Monthly.  The  professor  is  now  occupying  the 
chair  of  economics  at  Smith  College,  telling  the  young 
ladies  how  the  affairs  of  the  world  should  be  adjusted. 

WELL,  Professor,  how  about  you  going  out 
there  and  applying  your  academic  brains  to  the 
proper  adjustment  of  picture  problems?  Those  poor 
glove  salesmen  and  trouser  pressers,  as  you  call  the 
producers,  would  be  delighted  to  pay  you  twenty 
times  your  present  salary.  But  you  would  have  to 
click  at  the  box-office  or  your  options  would  not  be 
renewed.  Academic  theory  is  one  thing  that  the 
public  will  not  pay  money  to  see  and  hear. 

AND  along  comes  a  Frenchman  who  commits  a 
half-baked  book  called  "America  the  Menace," 
in  which  he  drools  this: 

"  The  cinema  is  a  pastime  for  slaves,  an  amusement 
for  the  illiterate,  for  miserable  creatures  .  .  .  stupefying 
and  destroying  the  mind.  .  .  .  any  people  subjected  to 
the  actual  influence  of  the  American  'movie'  are  on  the 
way  to  the  worst  decadence.  .  .  .  everything  is  arranged 
so  that  in  no  event  shall  the  spectator  be  bored." 

Well,  M.  Georges  Duhamcl,  that  last  is  more  than 
we  can  say  for  your  book. 

AND  while  we  are  quoting,  Henri  Bernstein,  one 
of  the  greatest  of  all  living  playwrights,  recently 
said:     "In  a  few  years  it  will  be  an  anachronism  to 
see  a  flesh  and  blood  actor  performing." 
That  sounded  fine  until  he  pulled  this  one: 
"The   Greek   tragedies   would    make   the   greatest 
talkies." 

Shades  of  Euripides! 


Why  don't  they  tell  the  truth  and  be  interesting? 
What  a  relief  if  the  Hollywood  lady  would  say: 

"He's  a  dirty  so  and  so,  a  drunken  bum  and  a 
loafer.  He  won't  work  and  he  gives  me  a  black  eye 
every  time  he  comes  home  plastered." 

And  if  he  would  say :  "  My  God,  what  a  relief  to  be 
rid  of  that  dame.  She  spends  every  cent  I  can  get. 
She  flirts  with  every  man  she  sees.  She's  a  nagger  and 
it's  worth  every  dollar  I  have  to  be  rid  of  her." 


SEED"  is  a  splendid  picture.  It's  as  clean  and 
fine  as  any  picture  in  years.  But  why  advertise 
it  like  this:  "Girls,  'Seed'  is  your  story!  It  is  made 
up  of  the  thoughts  you  think  in  secret — good  and  bad." 


SPIES  from  overseas  tell  me  that  the  French  censors 
nearly  succeeded  in  snipping  Jean  Harlow  entirely 
out  of  "Hell's  Angels"  in  Paris. 

Evidently  they  considered  her  a  little  too  hotsy  and 
totsy  for  those  broad-minded  and  moral  Parisians. 

About  all  that  was  left  of  the  picture  was  a  lot  of 
airplanes,  Ben  Lyon  and  Jimmy  Hall. 

Incidentally,  Howard  Hughes'  office  announces  that 
he  has  already  gotten  back  the  huge  cost  of  the  big 
picture  and  expects  to  turn  a  neat  little  profit  on  the 
runs  all  over  the  world. 

You  have  to  give  Hughes  credit.  He  gambled  with 
four  million  dollars  and  won.  That  makes  the  little 
Saturday  night  stud  game  look  pretty  small! 

WHEN  will  United  Artists — shades  of  Chaplin, 
Pickford,  Fairbanks  and  Talmadge — change  its 
name  to  what  it  has  turned  out  to  be,  The  Divided 
Artists  ? 


IT  is  all  right  and  quite  proper  for  Ronald  Colman  to 
carry  that  bored  expression  on  the  screen  where  it 
may  or  may  not  give  the  girls  that  feeling  that  he  is 
utterly  unattainable  and  all  that  sort  of  thing,  but 
there  is  a  limit  to  it. 

Mr.  Colman,  according  to  George  Shaffer  of  The 
Chicago  Tribune,  who  is  quite  an  accurate  reporter, 
insists  when  he  is  invited  out  to  dinner  that  he  be 
furnished  with  a  list  of  the  guests  before  he  accepts. 
He  fears  that  some  of  those  unmannerly  persons,  who 
earn  a  lowly  living  by  writing  for  the  press,  might  be 
present  and  spill  ketchup  on  his  waistcoat. 

The  worst  of  trying  to  pull  this  sort  of  thing  is  that 
it  gets  into  one's  screen  personality.  And  dash  it  all, 
Ronald  old  top,  these  beastly  persons  who  are  paying 
your  salary  by  pushing  half  dollars  through  little  holes 
in  the  glass  at  the  ticket  boxes  have  sent  more  than 
one  screen  star  to  limbo  because  they  got  tired  of 
players  who  seemed  unutterably  bored  with  it  all. 

""TT  TE  shall  always  be  good  friends  just  the  same." 
W  Don't  you  get  sick  and  tired  of  that  stock 
phrase?     Good  friends,  my  eye! 

26 


HERE'S  one  told  by  Eugene  Manlove  Rhodes,  the 
author.  .   .  .  He's  in  Hollywood  now. 

Several  weeks  ago,  a  studio  executive  approached 
him  with  a  year-old  magazine  which  contained  one  of 
Rhodes'  early  stories. 

"I  think  this'd  make  a  good  picture,"  began  the  ex- 
ecutive.   "I'd  like  to  buy  the  rights." 

"Sorry,  but  they've  been  sold,"  said  Rhodes,  after 
glancing  at  the  story.    The  producer  looked  hurt. 

"Too  bad,"  he  lamented.  "Has  it  ever  been 
filmed?" 

"No,"  said  Rhodes. 

"Good!  Then  I'll  buy  it  from  the  outfit  that  origi- 
nally bought  it,"  chortled  the  producer. 

"Can't  do  that,  I'm  afraid,"  interjected  Rhodes. 

"Why  not?" 

"Because,"  ha-ha-ed  Rhodes,  "you  are  the  fellow 
that  bought  it  four  years  ago!" 


THERE  are  about  17,500  extras  listed  at  Holly- 
wood's  Central   Casting  Bureau.     Only  833  of 
them  averaged  one  day's  work  per  week  during  a  year. 
Better  stay  home. 


W/"!  LL  this  English  beauty,  recruited  from 
*  V  the  musical  comedy  stage,  click  or  flop? 
Lilian  Bond  has  looks  and  one  of  those 
figures.  See  her  opposite  Menjou  in  "The 
Great  Lover"  and  decide  for  yourself.  We've 
given  up  trying  to  pick  'em 


27 


Mitzi  On  The  Job 


IF  there's  anything  you  don't         gy      p  r  d  fl  C  e  S     DetltOfl 
know  about  the  lives  of  the  stars,  ■f 

it  isn't  our  fault.  But  there's  one 
star  in  Hollywood  you  can't  give  an  account  of,  I'll  bet. 
And  it  isn't  Garbo,  either.  I'm  going  to  give  you  a  peek  into 
the  very  personal  and  very  private  life  of  Mitzi  Green.  Here's 
how  a  real  baby  star  (and  not  one  of  those  who  have  ten  seven- 
teenth birthdays)  lives. 

Mitzi  resides  in  Beverly  Hills  with  her  mother,  her  father  and 
(during  his  summer  vacation)  her  seventeen-year-old  brother. 
On  working  days  she  arises  at  eight  A.  M.  and  dresses  herself 
without  any  help  from  anybody.  She  puts  on  the  costume  she 
wears  in  the  current  picture  and,  of  course,  doesn't  have  to 
bother  about  make-up  or  marcels.  She  has  breakfast  imme- 
diately. Orange  juice,  cooked  cereal,  milk  and  a  poached  egg. 
At  nine  o'clock  she  is  on  the  set  ready  to  work.  Her  father 
and  mother  take  turns  driving  her  to  the  studio  and  remaining 
with  her  during  the  day.    They  have  but  one  servant,  a  cook. 


are  usually  worn  out  long  before  she 

is.    When  she  is  called  for  a  scene  she 

is  always  ready,  letter-perfect  in  her 

lines,  and  she  has  the  rare  gift  of  being  able  to  walk  immediately 

before  the  camera  without  a  second  "to  get  into  the  mood." 

Occasionally  she  has  luncheon  with  her  mother  in  the  com- 
missary, but  usually  she  is  dated  up  days  in  advance  by  some 
youth,  Leon  Janney  seeming  to  be  head  man  at  the  moment. 
He  buys  her  luncheon  with  his  own  money.  Then  again,  she 
eats  with  the  director  of  the  picture  or  with  the  adult  players. 
She  has  soup,  a  peanut  butter  (which  is  her  favorite)  or  chicken 
sandwich,  two  vegetables  including  spinach  (which  she  detests) 
and  fruit  jello  or  ice  cream. 


IF  the  picture  is  one  in  which  there  are  a  lot  of  other  kids, 
Mitzi  plays  every  minute  she's  not  actually  before  the  camera. 
"Jinx"  is  her  favorite  game.  It  is  done  like  this.  At  any  time 
during  the  day  one  of  the  kids  may  rush  up  to  any  other  and 
call  "Jinx."  If  you  don't  have  your  fingers  crossed  you  can  be 
made  to  do  anything  the  catcher  commands,  such  as  climbing 
up  the  electricians'  parallels,  sitting  in  the  director's  chair  or 
something  equally  hazardous.  "Hide  and  Go  Seek"  and 
"  Follow  the  Leader"  are  also  favorites.  Think  of  all  the  amaz- 
ing places  to  hide  in  a  studio! 

If  Mitzi  is  the  only  child  on  the  picture,  she  amuses  herself 
with  the  grownups  working  puzzles  or  playing  "  Cities."    They 


AFTER  luncheon  she  goes  with  the  rest  of  the  cast  to  see  the 
rushes.  As  she  watches  her  work,  she  often  calls  out,  "  Oh, 
I'm  bad  in  that  scene.  I'm  sure  that  if  you'll  let  me  do  it  over 
again  my  father  will  stand  the  expense  on  it." 

Back  on  the  set,  she  repeats  the  activities  of  the  morning. 
She  has  never  been  known  to  be  tired.  She  is  invariably  in  the 
midst  of  a  strenuous  game  when  she  is  not  actually  working. 

The  law  requires  that  she  work  but  five  hours  a  day  and  go 
to  school  for  three.  When  she  can  be  spared  from  the  set  for 
any  length  of  time,  Mitzi  is  sent  to  the  schoolroom  on  the  lot. 
Otherwise  the  teacher,  Rachel  Smith,  is  on  the  set  and  instructs 
her  between  scenes.  Mitzi  is  ten.  She  has  sixth  grade  arith- 
metic, ninth  grade  spelling,  seventh  grade  history  and  English. 

Spelling  is  her  favorite  study  and  in  that  she  excels.  English 
is  second  and  history  third.  She  doesn't  give  arithmetic  a 
thing.  In  fact  she  often  argues  with  the  teacher  about  it. 
"Why  should  I  learn  it?"  she  asks.     "I'm  going  to  be  an 


Those  good  old  school  days — in  the  Hollywood  manner.     California  school  regulations  require  child 

actors  to  have  at  least  three  hours  of  school  work  daily,  so  Mitzi  and  Jackie  Searl  get  a  dash  of  their 

readin',  writin'  and  'rithmetic  from  teacher  right  in  the  shadow  of  a  Paramount  set 


9.8 


Though  this  little 
girl  is  a  movie 
star,  she  has  to  eat 
her  spinach  just 
the  same 


actress  all  my  life.  Why  do  I  need 
it?"  When  she  is  told  that  it 
teaches  her  to  concentrate,  she  says, 
"But  I  concentrate  on  my  lines. 
Isn't  that  enough?" 

At  five-thirty,  never  later — some- 
times earlier,  she  leaves  the  lot.  At 
home  again  she  must  rest  until 
dinner  (she  has  her  own  room)  at 
seven  o'clock.  If  she  has  night 
work  to  do  she  must  go  home  and 
sleep  all  afternoon.  For  dinner  she 
usually  has  a  lamb  chop,  baked 
potato,  salad  and  some  green  vege- 
tables. Then  a  pudding,  tapioca  or 
junket.  She  likes  raw  vegetables 
and,  when  the  adults  of  her  com- 
pany have  afternoon  tea,  she,  like 
Lillian  Gish,  nibbles  a  raw  carrot. 

After  dinner  she  works  with  her 
father  learning  her  next  day's  lines. 
She  is  what  is  known  in  the  theater 
as  a  very  quick  study.  After  this 
she  does  her  "home  work"  so  she 
may   be  prepared  for  next   day's 


"Home  work"  of  another  kind.  Here's  Mitzi  going 
over  a  script  with  her  father,  Joe  Green,  in  their  home. 
In  addition  to  knowing  how  to  bound  Europe  and  what 
the  capital  of  Greece  is,  Mitzi  has  to  know  her  lines  in 
order  to  get  that  $800  a  week 


It's  quite  all  right  for  an  actress  to  sit  on  the  arm  of  her 
director's  chair  and  lean  against  his  shoulder — quite  all 
right,  that  is,  when  the  actress  is  just  ten  years  old. 
Mitzi  is  watching  Norman  Taurog  direct  a  scene  in 
"Forbidden  Adventure" 

lessons.  She  is  in  bed  by  eight-thirty,  never  later  than  nine. 
When  she  is  not  working,  her  days  are  very  much  the  same. 
She  arises  at  the  same  hour  because  she  has  to  go  to  the  studio 
school  from  nine  until  twelve.  She  has  her  luncheon  on  the  lot 
if  there  is  a  publicity  picture  to  be  taken,  otherwise  she  goes 
home  and  plays  outdoors  all  afternoon.  There  is  a  large  yard 
at  her  home,  made  gay  with  gnome  statuettes.  Sometimes  she 
is  taken  to  the  beach  with  Mike  Levee's  children  (Mitzi  swims 
very  well)  or  with  Leon  Janney,  Junior  Coghlan,  Billy  Butts, 
Jackie  Searl,  Anita  Louise  or  Nancy  Crawley. 

SOMETIMES  she  plays  outdoor  ping-pong  or  tennis.  She 
learned  to  ride  horseback  in  "The  Santa  Fe  Trail"  and  occa- 
sionally she  rides  in  the  afternoon. 

Two  days  a  week  she  takes  tap  dancing  lessons  and  one  day 
a  week  she  has  French. 

As  there  is  no  school  Saturday  and  Sunday  her  parents  usually 
take  her  away  for  the  week  end — to  Arrowhead  or  La  Jolla.  She 
sees  at  least  one  picture  a  week,  as  part  of  her  work,  and  occa- 
sionally on  a  Friday  or  Saturday  night  she  attends  an  opening. 
When  she  docs  this,  she  must  have  a  nap  in  the  afternoon. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  Mitzi  has  a  pretty  swell  time.  Every- 
thing is  done  to  make  her  happy  and  comfortable. 

And  for  having  so  much  fun  she  receives  S800  a  week ! 


29 


The  Enemy  of  Beauty 


No  athletic  type  of 
girl  has  ever  so  much 
as  reached  first  ba^e- 
in  motion  pictures 


THERE  is  more  sheer  physical  beauty  in 
Hollywood  than  in  any  community  in  the 
world. 

It  is  vitally  necessary  for  the  women  of 
the  films  to  remain  beautiful.  Their  food,  clothes 
and  shelter  are  dependent  upon  it.  Without 
symmetry  of  form  their  screen  lives  are  dead  as 
the   gangster   who   squealed. 

As  a  result  there  is  a  beauty  cult  in  Holly- 
wood. The  quest  is  all  consuming.  These 
modern  goddesses  have  set  the  pace  of  beauty  in 
America.  Hollywood  has  glorified  the  American 
girl  more  surely  than  Ziegfeld.  The  standard  has 
absolutely  and  definitely  changed. 

Compare  the  measurements  of  the  Venus  de  Milo 
with  those  of  the  average  film  star.  Venus 
was  a  pretty  big  gal,  wasn't  she?  Recall 
the  description  of  Helen  of  Troy — tall, 
statuesque,  queenly.  She  couldn't  get  a 
job  in  the  movies  today.  Diedre,  the 
Celtic  goddess,  had  a  powerful  frame. 
The  Amazons  were  great,  muscular  wom- 
en. So  were  the  Valkyrie  of  German 
legend.  Ziegf eld's  famous  beauties  are 
long  limbed,  broad  shouldered. 


For  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  the 
world  the  small  woman  occupies  the 
pedestal.  Screen  stars  must  be  small 
because  the  one  eyed  camera  enlarges. 
And  screen  stars  are  taken  as  the  mark 
of  perfection. 

Gloria  Swanson  is  only  five  feet,  one 
half  inch  tall. 

Joan  Crawford  is  extremely  tall  at 
five  feet,  four. 

Mary  Pickford  is  not  five  feet. 
Ann  Harding  is  five  feet,  two. 
Ruth  Chatterton  is  five  feet,  four. 
Garbo  is  considered  a  giantess  at  five 
feet,  six. 

No  more  amazing  Amazons,  no  more 
glorified  Ziegfeld   girls. 

But  how  to  get  that  way?  How  to 
remain  petite,  slight  and  yet  well 
rounded?  Listen  to 
your  old  friend  Syl- 
via Ulbeck,  mas- 
seuse extraordinaire 
of  Hollywood,  the 
flesh  sculptor  who 
pounds,  beats  and 
curses  the  stars  into 
shape. 

Says   Sylvia:   "If 


This  is  good  form 
for  golf  but  not  for 
beauty.  Helen 
Hicks,  links  cham- 
pion, is  an  example 
of  what  Sylvia 
means  when  she 
says  over-exercise 
is  ruinous  to  beauty 


Compare  the  shoulders  of  these  two  women — Gertrude  Ederle  and 
Bebe  Daniels.  Gertrude  is  a  champion  swimmer — Bebe,  a  Holly- 
wood beauty.  The  muscles  of  the  athlete  made  it  possible  for 
Gertrude  to  swim  the  channel,  but  they'd  never  win  her  a  beauty 
prize.    Swimming  is  fine  but  shouldn't  be  overdone 

30 


Here's  a  girl  who  indulges  in  no  ath- 
letics. Take  a  look  at  those  hips  and 
shoulders  to  be  convinced  that  golf 
club  and  racket  are  beauty  foes. 
Constance  Bennett  is  the  example 


o 


-E 


ver-j^xercise 


By  Lois 
Shirley 


you  want  to  be  beautiful — don't  over-exercise.  No 
woman  athlete  is  beautiful!  Swimming,  riding, 
golf  and  tennis  are  fine  but  shouldn't  be  overdone. 
Muscles  are  horrid  things  that  must  be  pounded 
off.  I  allow  the  stars  under  my  care  to  take  no 
violent  exercise  in  any  form!" 

And  the  stars  under  Sylvia's  care  are  legion. 
But  they  must  obey  Sylvia.  Marie  Prevost  came 
to  Sylvia.  Marie  was  overweight  and  be- 
sides she  loved  to  swim.  "Those  awful 
muscles,"  said  Sylvia,  "those  broad 
shoulders — nothing  can  be  done  about 
them.  The  muscles  are  too  near  the  chest 
to  be  pounded  away." 

Sylvia  asked  Marie  to  give  up  strenuous 
swimming.  But  Marie  didn't.  "And 
now  look  at  her,"  says  Sylvia. 

Dorothy  Mackaill  loves  to  swim  miles 
a  day  but  when  Sylvia  said  "Stop,"  Doro- 
thy did.  She  now  swims  much  less  than 
before.     Her  figure  is  much  improved. 


"If  you  want  to  be  beauti- 
ful— don't  over-exercise. 
No  woman  athlete  is 
beautiful,"  says  Sylvia, 
Hollywood's  flesh 
sculptor 


Tennis  makes  one  arm  larger  than  the  other. 
Golf  brings  on  an  ungainly  stride  and  without  a 
lovely   carriage   no    woman   may   claim    beauty. 
w£  Sylvia  says  she  can  spot  a  golfer  like  a  beacon 

light.     Her  long  steps,  her  mannish  stance,  her 
shoulder  slouch  give  her  away. 

Too    much    serious   swimming   develops   chest, 
shoulders  and  thighs  to  an  alarming  degree.    Horse 
back  riding  works  as  a  hip  spreader.  And 
professional  dancing  ruins  the  legs. 

When  Constance  Cummings  came  to 
Sylvia  she  had  just  finished  a  season's 
dancing.        [  please  turn  to  page  112  ] 


<w 


When  Sylvia  told  Alice 
White  that  tap  danc- 
ing was  ruining  the 
shape  of  her  legs, 
Alice  gave  up  tap 
dancing,  for  the  little 
White  figure  is  one  of 
the  best  in  Hollywood 
and  Alice's  job  de- 
pends upon  it 


J\± 


Here  is  Helen  Wills, 
the  fiend  of  the  tennis 
courts,  in  action.  Note 
the  muscles  in  her 
arms,  legs  and  neck. 
Tennis  did  that  and 
Helen  doesn't  care. 
But  her  figure  does  not 
measure  up  to  Holly- 
wood standards 


SI 


If  you  want  anything 
investigated,  put 
Inspector  Leonard 
Hall  on  the  job  in 
Europe.  He  may 
not  get  the  exact 
facts,  but  he  brings 
home   the   brandy 


A  Wet 


Cafe  Coupole,  Montparnasse,  Paris 


Dear  Mr.  Quirk: 


YOU  may  remember  the  writer — the  name  is  Hall — 
H-A-L-L.  Len  Hall.  I  have  been  working  for  you  several 
years  now,  you  may  recall.  You  may  also  remember  that 
several  weeks  ago,  wearied  of  seeing  my  ugly  mug  around  the 
office,  you  told  me  to  get  the  heck  to  Paris,  raise  a  beard  in  the 
Latin  Quarter,  and  give  you  a  change  of  scenery — even  if  it  only 
consisted  of  a  scrubby  red  hedge. 

It  seems  to  me  you  also  hinted  that  it  might  be  a  good  idea  to 

32 


"Charlie,"  I  said, 
pulling  my  trusty 
notebook  on  him, 
"give  me  the  dirt 
on  the  Russian 
movie  situation" 


write  you  the  star-spangled,  gilt-edged  low-down  on  the  motion 
picture  situation  in  Europe,  inasmuch  as  I  was  planning  a  grand 
tour  of  the  Continent  on  a  high  bicycle.  You  also  said  you'd 
like  to  know  the  European  attitude  toward  Greta  and  Marlene 
(the  Battle  of  the  Giants),  Sir  Charles  Chaplin,  the  engagement 
of  Bill  (Wild  Willy)  Powell  and  Carole  (Numerology)  Lombard, 
and  Joan  (Hotsy-Totsy)  Crawford's  luscious  leggery. 

Well,  sir,  here  is  the  low-down  on  the  motion  picture  in 
Europe — its  care,  feeding,  people  and  general  state  of  debility. 
This,  sir,  is  my  report.  (Well,  if  you  insist,  Emile,  I  will  try 
just  another  half-gallon  of  that  export  Pilsener.) 

I  began  my  researches  in  the  motion  picture  field  in  Berlin — 


He's  right  here  looking  over  my  shoulder,  the  rascal. 
And  can  that  be  "beer"  he's  carrying? 


to  be  exact,  at  the  bar  of  the  excellent  Adlon  Hotel.  There  I 
found  Gus,  a  most  excellent  fellow.  After  ordering  a  large 
schooner  (almost  a  battleship,  really,  for  I  was  choked  with  soot 
after  the  long  ride  from  Bremerhaven)  I  went  to  work  at  once. 
You  know  me,  Mr.  Quirk — business  is  always  first. 

"  Gus,"  I  said,  after  burying  my  seven-inch  nose  in  the 
creamy  foam,  "give  me  the  absolute  inside  on  the  movie  situa- 
tion auf  Deulschland."  (I  speak  the  language  like  a  native — 
of  Indianapolis.) 

"Wtinderbar!"  Gus  replied.  Inasmuch  as  this  means  "ter- 
rible" in  English,  I  had  the  whole  thing  cleaned  up  right  there. 
No  use  in  my  charging  way  out  to  the  UFA  studio  just  to  get 
kicked  around  by  gate-keepers,  eh,  Mr.  Quirk?  Gus  also  told 
me  that  Fraulein  Greta  Garbo  was  die  hcis  shot  of  the  moment 
in  "Anna  Christie,"  and  that  the  Berliners  couldn't  get  lathered 
over  Unser  Marlene,  as  she  was  a  home-grown  product  and  they 
had  seen  plenty  of  her  legs  already. 

As  you  can  see,  I  cleaned  up  that  situation  (and  a  few  kegs  of 
something  they  call  "beer"  over  here)  in  about  three  days,  so  I 
allowed  myself  to  be  siphoned  aboard  a  train  for  Paris.  Natu- 
rally enough,  I  awoke  the  next  morning  in  Warsaw,  Poland. 
Well,  my  job  was  easy  there.  The  Poles  suffer  enough  without 
making  movies.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  a  lot  of  their  suffering  is 
caused  by  looking  at  old  prints  from  America.  Believe  me  or 
believe  me  not,  Mr.  Quirk  (yes,  Emile,  you  can  encore  with  a 
little  of  the  tneme  chose),  in  Vilna,  Poland  (I  don't  quite  remem- 


So  with  Emile  working  for  me,  I  dug  up  all  the 
dope  on  French  movies  in  about  a  week 


ber  how  I  got  way  up  there),  the  suffering  Poles  were  being 
shown  Emil  Jannings  in  "The  Way  of  All  Flesh"  and  Pola 
Negri's  prehistoric  Paramount,  "A  Woman  on  Trial."  The 
judge — er,  I  mean,  the  mayor — told  me  that  those  citizens  who 
didn't  blow  their  brains  out  from  chronic  melancholia,  invari- 
ably went  blind  from  looking  at  the  original  print  of  Charlie 
Chaplin's  "Easy  Street."    It's  a  jolly  country. 

As  you  can  see,  Mr.  Quirk,  I  mopped  up  Poland  in  no  time  at 
all.  Then,  making  my  will  and  putting  the  last  fifty  dollar  bill 
in  my  left  shoe,  I  was  hurled  aboard  a  train  for  Moscow. 

ONCE  in  the  Red  capital,  I  went  right  to  bat  for  good  old 
Photoplay — you  know  my  zeal!  Without  even  leaving  a 
card  at  Mr.  Stalin's  office,  I  dashed  right  to  the  United  Press 
office,  presided  over,  at  the  moment,  by  Mr.  Charles  Malamuth. 
Robert  W.  Service  immortalized  him,  you  recall,  in  the  poem 
beginning  "A  bunch  of  the  boys  were  hitting  it  up  in  the  Mala- 
muth Saloon." 

"Charlie,"  I  said,  pulling  my  trusty  notebook  on  him,  "give 
me  all  the  dirt  on  the  Russian  movie  situation.  How  do  you 
feel  about  Eisenstein,  Pudovkin  and  the  use  of  the  ruble  as 
shaving  paper?" 

"Wait,  Hall,"  said  Charlie.  "Before  I  can  answer  that,  try 
this." 

He  then  practically  forced  into  my  hand  something  in  a  glass. 
I  tasted  it.  The  top  of  my  head  flew  off  and  hit  Mr.  Malamuth 
over  the  right  eye,  raising  a  nasty  bump. 

Several  hours  later  I  found  that  what  I  had  so  innocently 
sipped  was  a  vodka  cocktail,  an  invention  of  Charles  (Edison) 
Malamuth.  Ingredients — vodka,  a  little  lemon  juice  when  you 
can  get  it,  and  a  spot  of  sugar.    [  please  turn  to  page  108  ] 

33 


•  ■ 


Off  for  a  European  holiday  after 
finishing  "Alexander  Hamilton," 
beautiful  Doris  Kenyon,  widow 
of  Milton  Sills,  and  her  son, 
Kenyon  Sills,  wave  to  the  camera- 
man upon  arriving  at  Penn  Sta- 
tion, New  York 


BARBED  wire  is  becoming  popular  among 
the  exclusives  of  Hollywood.  When  Mary 
and  Doug  left  for  foreign  parts,  they 
closed  their  house  and  had  barbed  wire  strung 
around  the  swimming  pool. 

And  they  say  that  Greta  Garbo  is  surround- 
ing the  grounds  of  her  home  with  barbed  wire, 
and  even  go  so  far  to  say  that  it's  charged  with 
electricity. 

•"THOSE  amazing  Bennetts — Dad  (Curtain 
■*-  Speaker)  Richard,  Joan  and  Constance — 
are  always  sure  to  do  the  spectacular.  Con- 
stance has  been  causing  a  little  trouble  on  the 
First  National  lot,  in  spite  of  her  enormous 
salary  (or  maybe  because  of  it) . 

The  publicity  department  wanted  to  take  a 
still  of  her  father  and  herself  holding  a  make-up 
box  together.  But  Connie  thought  it  was  silly. 
The  portrait  artist  on  the  lot  tried  to  secure 
photographs  of  her  and  she  promised  to  sit,  but 
she  always  forgot  her  appointments. 

She  would  not  allow  interviewers  to  come  on 
the  set,  so  the  executives  finally  barred  the 
sacred  precincts  to  all  visitors.  This  may  have 
been  in  deference  to  Connie  and  again  it  may 
have  been  for  the  visitors'  sakes,  for  the  fair 
lady's  language  when  she's  hot  and  bothered  is 
something  to  make  a  sailor's  parrot  blush  with 
envy. 

But  the  publicity  department  pulled  a  swift 
one.  Connie's  picture  was  finished  on  Thurs- 
day. Her  contract  called  for  salary  and  work 
for  Friday  and  Saturday.  She  was  notified 
that  if  she  wanted  that  pay  she'd  have  to  sit  for 
photographs. 

84 


C  a  1  Yo  r  k 


ft1* 


This  is  mothers'  and  daughters'  month !    You  will  have  no  trouble  recogniz- 
ing Alice  Joyce  above,  but  would  you  believe  her  daughters  are  such  young 
ladies  already?     Alice  (Mrs.  James  Regan,  Jr.),  Peggy,  left,  and  Alice 
Moore,  center,  posed  this  way  before  sailing  for  California  recently 


HpHE  baby  at  Connie's  house  is  another 
-L  source  of  gossip  for  Hollywood.  The  child 
is  about  three  years  old  now. 

In  New  York  Connie  told  reporters  it  was  an 
adopted  child,  but  Hollywood  believes  that 
Phil  Plant,  Connie's  ex-husband,  is  its  father. 

However,  when  a  Hollywood  reporter  asked 
the  lustrous  lady  about  it,  Connie's  set  was 
barred  to  interviewers. 

"KTOBODY,  with  the  possible  exception  of 
•'-^  Greta  Garbo,  is  given  such  a  free  hand  as 
Constance  Bennett. 

Connie,  who  is  still  not  as  big  a  box-office 
attraction  as  many  another  star,  says  and  the 
studio  does. 

During  a  recent  film  she  did  not  like  the 
clothes  the  wardrobe  had  designed,  so  she  was 
allowed  to  buy  her  costumes  elsewhere 

One  producer  admitted  that  the  reason  she 
does  exactly  as  she  pleases  is  because  she  is  said 
to  have  a  million  dollars  as  a  result  of  a  settle- 
ment with  her  husband. 

Even  in  Hollywood  a  million  dollars  has 
authority. 


SUPPOSE  you'd  been  away  from  your  wife 
for  months.  Suppose  you  were  in  England, 
and  your  wife  was  arriving  at  such-and-such  a 
time  on  the  steamship  so-and-so. 

Where'd  you  be? 

Well,  anyway,  when  Mary  Pickford  de- 
barked from  the  steamer  in  England  after  her 
trans-Atlantic  trip  to  join  Doug,  he  wasn't  at 
the  pier  to  meet  her. 

So  she  put  in  a  telephone  call  to  where  he 
was  stopping  in  London.  But  they  told  her 
they  were  sorry,  Mr.  Fairbanks  was  out  play- 
ing golf.  He  was  right  in  the  middle  of  a 
match,  it  appears,  and  she  just  couldn't  reach 
him. 

So— 

P.  S. — As  usual,  the  Fairbankses  are  denying 
all  separation  and  divorce  reports. 

"T"\OUG  is  the  kindest,  best  man  in  the 
-L-'  world  and  the  perfect  husband  for  me," 
at  least  that's  what  Mary  Pickford  told  some- 
body in  England.  The  somebody  was  a  news- 
paper reporter. 
Mary  further  goes  on  to  remark  that  after 


The  Monthly  Broadcast 

of 

Hollywood 
Goings  -  On/ 


The  proudest  moment  of  Irene  Rich's  life  was  when  she  watched  her 

daughter  Frances  graduate  from  Smith  College.  She  came  all  the  way  from 

Hollywood  to  be  present,  giving  up  several  parts  to  do  it.    Jane,  Irene's 

other  daughter,  is  also  shown  in  this  happy  family  group 


Doug  has  been  having  story  ideas  and  leaves 
his  room  in  the  morning  you'd  think  a  first 
class  cyclone  had  struck  it.  But  she  hastily 
amends  that  he's  a  tidy  person  by  nature  and 
would  not  go  away  with  his  room  in  that  con- 
dition unless  he  had  an  excellent  man-servant. 
Getting  very  chummy  with  the  interviewer 
she  broke  down  and  confessed  that  in  China 
Doug  ate  hundred-year-old  eggs  and  birds'- 
nest  soup,  great  delicacies  there,  and  that  he 
seemed  to  enjoy  snails  when  he  was  in  France. 

BREAK-DOWN-AN'-CRY  note: 
Joe  E.  Brown  is  really  sensitive 
about  his  mouth.  He  gets  mad  when 
he's  kidded  about  it. 

A  SURPRISE,  which  need  not  be  prefixed 
•**■  by  "pleasant,"  awaited  Doug  and  Mary 
when  they  arrived  home,  via  airplane,  from 
their  European  holiday.  White  ants  had  eaten 
into  Pickfair  to  such  an  extent  that  it  will  cost 
$10,000  to  repair  the  damage  they  did  to  the 
stars'  mansion.  Since  her  return,  incidentally, 
Mary  has  been  on  a  wild  sport  spree.     She's 


been  playing  golf,   tennis,  and  swimming  at 
every  opportunity. 

MAYBE  you've  been  wondering — or  maybe 
not — about  how  the  Charlie  Farrells  and 
Lydell  Pecks  would  get  along  when  the  Farrells 
returned  from  honeymooning  in  Europe. 

Everything  is  hunky-dory!  There  has  been 
no  hard  feeling  between  Mrs.  Farrell  (Virginia 
Valli)  and  Mrs.  Peck  (Janet  Gaynor)  in  spite 
of  the  rumors  that  both  ladies  were  interested 
in  Mr.  Farrell.  In  fact,  they're  so  friendly  that 
the  Farrells  loaned  the  Pecks  their  yacht  for  a 
week-end  trip  recently,  and  the  Pecks  paddled 
over  to  Catalina  in  it.  Janet  is  settling  into 
matrimony  happily  now,  and  hubby  Lydell 
asks  her  to  buy  his  ties  for  him! 

TJOBERT  MONTGOMERY'S  the  boy 
■t*-who's  been  satisfied  with  small  cars,  you 
know,  and  given  out  publicity  about  staying  in 
the  little  car  class,  remember?  But  the  first 
thing  he  did  to  celebrate  his  new  contract  was 
to  buy  a  swanky  sixteen-cylinder  car. 
Then  friend  wife  gave  him  a  surprise  birth- 


Here's  Gloria  Swanson  on  the 
deck  of  the  Leviathan  wishing 
Corinne  Griffith  bon  voyage. 
Note  the  difference  in  photog- 
raphy between  Corinne,  who  has 
a  heavy  coat  of  tan,  and  Gloria, 
who  has  not 


day  party.  The  women  were  asked  to  dress 
formal,  but  the  men  were  to  come  in  white 
flannels. 

When  the  guests  were  all  assembled,  Robert, 
to  you,  now,  appeared  dramatically  on  the 
stairs,  clad  in  an  all-white  suit  with  huge 
buttons — you  know,  a  la  Buddy  Rogers,  band 
master. 

ONE  of  the  guests  exclaimed,  "Oh,  boy, 
wait  until  Buddy  Rogers  sees  you" — and 
Mr.  Montgomery  didn't  like  it! 

The  dinner  was  so  formal  that  butter  was 
omitted  from  the  menu — the  latest  wrinkle  in 
smartness,  you  know. 

But  Chester  Morris,  guest,  insisted  upon 
butter.  The  butler  brought  a  pound  wrapped 
in  a  napkin. 

Chester  took  a  hunk,  put  it  on  his  service 
plate,  and  then  refused  to  allow  the  butler 
to  remove  the  balance. 

You  see,  it  was  all  in  a  spirit  of  fun,  but  the 
fun  was  poked  at  the  Montgomery*'  new 
swankiness  celebrating  the  new  weekly  income. 

PARAMOUNT  and  director  Joe  Von  Stern- 
berg outdid  themselves  to  show  Marlene 
Dietrich  how  big  a  star  they  considered  her  by 
presenting  her  with  one  of  the  most  elaborate 
dressing-rooms  on  the  lot,  stunningly  deco- 
rated in  pale  blue  and  gray.  It  was  all  to  be  a 
great  big  surprise. 

When  Marlene  saw  it.  however,  she  merely 
raised  her  eyebrows  another  notch  and  said: 

"The  color  is  bad.  Give  me  a  deep  blue  and 
a  rich  henna  instead  of  these  pale  shades!" 

86 


Tune   in,   Folks,    on   Cal   York' 


Now  you  can  watch  where  your 
money  goes.  Karen  Morley  shows 
her  new  illuminated  purse  with  a 
small  light  that  flashes  on  when  the 
pocketbook  is  opened.  The  bat- 
tery is  kept  inside 


JOAN  BENNETT  and  John  Considine  are 
J  now  at  that  stage  of  post-romantic  activitfes 
where  they  do  everything  they  can  to  annoy 
one  another. 

You  remember  the  Palm  Spring  episode, 
when  Joan  raised  her  cultured  voice  to  the 
liigh  heavens  because  John  went  there  to  see 
Carmen  Pantages. 

Now  Joan's  home  at  Malibu  is  separated 
from  John  Considine's  only  by  the  house  of 
Jack  Gilbert,  who  plays  the  role  of  oil  on 
troubled  waters.  All  summer  he's  been  trying 
to  bring  about  peace,  and  the  only  thanks  he's 
gotten  is  a  lot  of  publicity  about  himself  and 
Joan. 

IN  one  of  the  scenes  in  Warner 
Bros.  "Alexander  Hamilton,"  star- 
ring George  Arliss,  Hamilton  and 
Count  Tallyrand  are  toasting  a 
picture  of  George  Washington. 

"A  great  big  heart — a  great  big 
soul,"  toasts  Hamilton. 

" — and  a  great  big  nose,"  finishes 
Tallyrand. 

This  bit  of  dialogue  caused  a  deaf- 
ening explosion  in  the  ranks  of  the 
elegant  ladies  who  make  up  the 
Daughters  of  the  American  Revolu- 
tion. Their  blue  blood  reached  the 
boiling  point  and  they  told  Warners 
plenty.  But — and  we  can  hardly  wait 
ourselves — wait  until  they  see  the 
headline  Variety,  the  theatrical 
weekly,  put  on  the  story.  It  reads: 
RIB  AT  GEO.  WASHINGTON'S 

SCHNOZZLE  BURNS  D.  A.  R. 

LOVE,  divorce,  and  things  like  that:     Ina 
Claire,   who  is  still  Mrs.  Jack   Gilbert,  is 
being  beau-ed  around  by  Robert  Ames,  and 

36 


Ina  wants  him  for  the  lead  in  her  next  picture. 
.  .  .  Lupe  Velez  said  she  and  Gary  were  all 
washed  up  before  Gary  went  to  Europe,  but  a 
friend  of  ours  who  witnessed  the  parting 
reports:  "To  watch  those  two  say  good-bye 
was  enough  to  bring  tears  to  the  eyes  of  a 
rocking  horse."  .  .  .  Joel  McCrea  laughs  and 
Connie  Bennett  looks  haughty  when  asked 
about  the  rumors  of  their  wedding,  but  their 
best  friends  tell  us  it's  all  on  the  up  and  up  and 
you  can  hear  the  wedding  bells  any  day  now. 
.  .  .  Larry  Gray  is  eating  out  his  little  heart 
over  Lady  Mountbatten.  He's  just  one  of  the 
many  who  fell  in  love  with  the  beautiful  titled 
English  woman.  .  .  .  They're  trying,  and  suc- 
ceeding, in  rumoring  the  separation  of  Ann 
Harding  and  Harry  Bannister.  But  'tain't 
so,  'tain't  so.  And  somebody  who  should  know 
told  us.  .  .  .  Fifi  Dorsay,  herself,  announced 
the  fact  that  she'd  broken  her  engagement  to 
Terrance  Ray.    But  everything's  all  rosy  again. 

JUST  to  squash  the  rumors  that  he  and  Lola 
Lane  were  at  outs,  Lew  Ayres  gave  her  a 
wrist  watch  set  with  thirty-two  diamonds.  We 
know  lots  of  girls  who'd  quarrel  with  the  boy 
friend  for  that.  .  .  .  Wes  Ruggles,  who 
directed  "Cimarron,"  had  a  nervous  break- 
down after  that  picture.  He's  feeling  fine  now 
and  the  reason  is  he's  all  that  way  about  Arline 
Judge,  a  Broadway  comedienne  now  working 
for  Radio  Pictures.  .  .  .  Mervyn  LeRoy,  who 
directed  "Little  Caesar,"  and  wife  Edna 
Murphy  told  it  to  the  judge.  .  .  .  Walter 
Huston  and  Una  Merkel  are  spooning.  The 
little  gal  from  Kentucky  just  "adohahs"  him. 
.  .  .  Dorothy  Jordan  has  a  boy  friend.  Name's 
Donald  Dillaway,  and  he  plays  juvenile  roles 
in  pictures.  .  .  .  Rex  Lease,  who  beat  up 
Vivian  Duncan,  and  Eleanor  Hunt  had  a 
quarrel.  They're  living  apart,  but  won't  call 
jt  a  separation. 

"PKIENDLY-LIKE,  Nancy  Carroll  and  News- 
-*-  paperman  Jack  Kirkland  start  divorce  pro- 
ceedings in  Sonora,  Mexico.     ...    A  final 


decree  is  granted  to  the  wife  of  Roy  D'Arcy, 
who  was  once  very  much  in  the  limelight  as  the 
possible  fiance  of  Lita  Grey  Chaplin.  .  .  . 
Josephine  Dunn's  hubby,  oil-millionaire's  son 
Clyde  Greathouse,  sues  for  divorce  and  says 
wine  scratched  his  face  and  called  him  awful 
names.  .  .  .  Pauline  Starke,  suing  husband 
Jack  White  for  divorce,  must  get  along  on  $400 
a  month,  pending  settlement  of  the  suit,  court 
decrees. 

SALLY  PHIPPS,  Wampas  Baby  Star  in 
1929,  in  Philadelphia  marries  Benedict 
Gimbel,  Jr.,  son  of  the  department-store 
Gimbels.  .  .  .  "Peaches"  Jackson,  child  star 
of  years  ago,  turns  out  to  be  eighteen  now,  and 
the  wife  of  Joe  Grasse,  and  they're  living  in  a 
cottage  in  Long  Beach,  California.  ...  At 
last,  at  last,  at  last,  William  Powell  and  Carole 
Lombard  announce  publicly  that  they're  going 
to  be  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Powell  as  soon  as 
they  get  time  off  to  be  married.  .  .  .  Photo- 
play told  you  about  it  long  ago.  ...  In  Nice, 
France,  reporters  ask  Charles  Chaplin  whether 
it's  true  that  he's  going  to  marry  Mary  Reeves, 
a  girl  he's  been  out  with  on  his  foreign  tour. 
And  Charlie  retorts:  "Me?  Marry  again? 
Again?  Not  Me!  I"  .  .  .  Ralf  Harolde,  film 
villain,  admits  he  and  his  piquant  wife  Ann 
have  come  to  the  parting  of  the  ways  because 
of  temperamental  clashes.  .  .  .  And  the 
Robert  Armstrongs  are  to  have  a  marital  vaca- 
tion, after  rumors  that  all  was  not  going  well 
within  the  marital  circle.  Mrs.  Armstrong  is 
to  go  to  China  to  fulfil  a  professional  dancing 
engagement  at  the  American  Club  in  Shanghai. 
And  Bob  stays  in  Hollywood  making  movies. 
.  .  .  Ian  Keith  and  Ethel  Clayton  have  sepa- 
rated. "I  drink  too  much  and  Ethel  gets  fed 
up,"  explains  Ian. 

CHARLES  MURRAY  and  the  Missus  cele- 
brate their  twenty-fifth  wedding  anniver- 
sary, and  Buster  Keaton  and  Natalie  Talmadge 
celebrate  their  tenth.  .  .  .  Keep  your  eye  on 
handsome  young  David  Manners  and  newly- 


If  you  could  read  what  Sylvia  Sidney  is  writing  in  her  diary  it  would  go 
like  this:  "Here  we  are,  dear  diary,  just  you  and  I  alone."  And  when 
you  see  it  on  the  screen  in  "Confessions  of  a  Co-Ed"  Sylvia  will  be 
alone.  This  is  just  an  informal  "still"  of  a  scene  actually  being  shot. 
Notice  the  expressions  on  the  faces 


Hollywood    Statio  n  — N-E-W-S 


back-in-HolIywood  Pola  Negri.  Dave's  a 
cousin  of  Lady  Diana  Manners,  you  know,  and 
Pola  likes  'em  attached  to  the  peerage  some- 
how. .  .  .  Lloyd  Hamilton  owes  his  wife 
$12,500  alimony,  but  goes  into  bankruptcy 
court  and  says  he's  broke  and  can't  pay  that, 
and  a  lot  of  other  things.  .  .  .  Bull  Montana 
has  a  tiff  with  his  wife,  makes  up  with  her,  and 
feels  so  happy  about  it  that  he  drives  his  auto 
through  a  stop  signal  and  gets  fined  $2  and 
doesn't  know  whether  it  was  worth  it.  .  .  . 
Ona  Munson  and  Ernst  Lubitsch  going  places 
together  and  wedding  bells  being  readied  for 
when  divorces  are  final.  .  .  .  The  Reginald 
Dennys  expect  01'  Doc  Stork  this  fall,  and  the 
former  Mrs.  Denny  sues  him  for  the  balance  of 
a  property  settlement  she  says  he  hasn't  paid. 

TRY  these  two  little  items  on  your 
Depressionola:  Ann  Harding's 
new  RKO-Pathe  contract  will  bring 
her  $960,000  in  the  next  three  years. 
.  .  .  And  John  Barrymore's  price  to 
any  producer  who  wants  to  sign  him 
is  $17,500  a  week. 

IF  this  sort  of  thing  keeps  up  Dorothy 
Mackaill  will  be  known  as  the  Cleopatra  of 
Hollywood. 

Engaged  three  times  in  eight  weeks,  Dot, 
after  a  brief  stay  in  Hollywood,  sailed  for 
Honolulu  and  told  reporters,  "Here  is  the  man 
I'm  going  to  marry." 

With  a  gesture  she  indicated  Horace  Hough, 
an  assistant  director  at  Fox.  The  reporters 
swooned.  Four  engagements  and  four  different 
men! 

But  the  laugh  was  on  them.  Hough  already 
has  a  fond  wife  and  Dorothy  was  just  ribbing 
the  press. 

Horace  has  come  in  for  his  share  of  plain  and 
fancy  kidding. 

Dot  denied  that  she  and  Walter  Byron  were 
that  way  about  each  other.  "Just  good 
friends,"  she  said,  "but  I  feel  that  I  ought  to 
make  my  next  picture  in  Reno,  so  I'll  have  a 


chance  to  divorce  all  the  men  I'm  supposed  to 
have  married  in  Honolulu." 

POLA  NEGRI  had  no  contract  when  she 
came  to  Hollywood.  Nothing  was  signed 
with  Radio.  She  took  a  gamble  and  won. 
Radio  had  told  her  if  the  tests  were  okay, 
they'd  give  her  three  pictures.  When  they  saw 
them,  they  signed  her  for  three  years.  One  up 
for  Pola! 

YOU'D  think  she  would  be  somewhat  chas- 
tened by  her  long  absence  from  the  screen, 
wouldn't  you?  Not  a  bit!  She  still  wears  the 
queenly  crown. 

A  writer  went  to  interview  her.  Pola  kept 
her  waiting,  and  when  she  entered  she  held  out 
her  hand — palm  downward.  But  it  didn't  get 
kissed.  This  is  an  old  trick  of  la  Negri.  Once 
before  she  kept  two  famous  interviewers  wait- 
ing while  she  took  an  hour's  nap. 

But,  even  so,  it's  good  to  have  her  back.  She 
puts  the  ooh!  la!  la!  into  the  old  town. 

NOW,  here's  the  way  our  old  pal  Pola  Negri 
feels  about  her  work.  "I  will  not,"  she 
says,  "play  the  type  of  siren  that  Garbo  is  on 
the  screen.  I  admire  Garbo  and  think  she  is  a 
great  actress,  but  I  want  to  be  different.  I  will 
not  play  the  woman  who  coaxes  men  with  her 
voice  and  the  beauty  of  her  body.  I  have  a 
different  idea." 

Well,  Pola,  we're  waiting  with  bated  breath 
to  see  your  different  ideas. 

A  T  a  very  large  and  formal  masquerade 
•**-party  given  recently,  Billie  Dove  and 
millionaire-producer  Howard  Hughes  were  not 
speaking. 

Mr.  Hughes  flew — after  this  party — to  a 
house  party  in  the  Northern  part  of  the  state 
without  Billie.  He  returned  to  Los  Angeles  on 
business  and  flew  to  the  party  again — still 
without  her. 

We  understand  Mr.  Hughes  was  a  bit  burned 
up  when  Billie  went  walking  in  the  garden  with 


Remember  when  Slippy  had  to  put  on  a  show  and  rob  his  bank  to  get 
Sooky's  dog  out  of  the  pound?  Well,  those  days  are  over.  Here's 
Jackie  Cooper  being  shown  his  contract  with  M-G-M  by  Louis  B. 
Mayer,  production  head  of  that  company.  He  gets  $75,000  a  year,  and 
it's  a  five  year  plan,  too 


Stage  royalty  Hollywood  bound. 
Alfred  Lunt  and  his  wife,  Lynne 
Fontanne,  New  York  Theater  Guild 
stars,  snapped  en  route.  Their  repu- 
tations, which  preceded  them,  have 
awed  the  film  capital 


another  gentleman.  He's  kinda  funny  that 
way. 

We  also  know  Billie  was  going  to  announce 
her  plans  for  the  wedding  about  this  time.  But 
she  hasn't. 

However,  it  will,  no  doubt,  be  love  and  kisses 
again  by  the  time  you  read  this. 

GRANT  WITHERS,  Loretta  Young's  cast- 
off  hubby,  is  Hollywood's  outstanding 
broken  heart.  Though  he's  been  out  places 
much  with  Betty  Compson — so  much  so  that 
Hollywoodheads  not  in  the  know  have  thought 
he's  not  much  bothered  by  Loretta's  attitude — 
Grant  is  really  taking  the  separation  "big." 

Withers  is  still  deeply  in  love  with  Loretta. 
Yes,  he  has  been  out  with  Betty  Compson. 
They  think  a  lot  of  each  other — Betty  and 
Grant.  But  Betty's  big  crush  is  really  Hugh 
Trevor,  even  though  she  does  fight  with  him 
occasionally. 

And  Grant's  is  still  Loretta,  even  though 
she'll  have  none  of  him. 

AND  so,  when  people  twit  Grant  about 
Loretta  and  Betty  and  himself,  you  can 
understand  why  he  gets  mad.  That's  what 
happened  in  a  Hollywood — well,  call  it  a  night 
club — the  other  evening.  A  certain  ex-screen- 
juvenile  brother-in-law  of  one  of  the  better 
known  directors  was  in  a  loud  state  of  being. 
He  concentrated  on  making  audible  remarks 
about  Grant,  who  was  in  the  room,  and  Grant's 
affairs. 

Grant  got  tired  of  it.  He  walked  over  to  the 
loud  one  and  told  him  to  put  'em  up.  There 
was  a  flurry,  a  couple  of  smacks  and  the  talker 
was  on  the  floor  dreaming  of  birds. 

So  people  aren't  talking  about  Grant  to 
Grant  any  more. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  84  ] 

37 


onesome 


THE  portly  gateman  at  the  studio  kept  a  bright 
and  watchful  eye  directed  toward  the  corner  of 
the  street.  He  had  been  doing  this  for  more 
than  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  at  least  half  a 
dozen  times  anxious  directors  and  assistants  had  rung 
the  gate  telephone  to  inquire  if  the  magic  car  which 
was  expected  had  yet  arrived.  An  air  of  expectancy 
lay  heavy  about  the  studio  entrance  through  which 
Clarinda  Covelle  soon  would  pass.  Clarinda  was  the 
pride  of  the  lot;  the  bright  star  of  the  movie  firma- 
ment.   So  the  gateman  watched. 

Two  full  hours  after  the  time  specified,  a  Rolls- 
Royce  turned  slowly  into  the  street  and  headed  to- 
ward the  iron  gate.  Instantly  the  attendant  there 
threw  wide  the  portals  and  waved  a  signal  to  someone 
inside  the  lot.  The  Rolls  was  a  gorgeous  affair  of 
lavender  and  purple  with  the  headlights,  radiators  and 
door  handles  of  gold.  It  was  common  knowledge  that 
this  was  genuine  gold  plate. 

Seated  on  the  front  of  the  town  car  was  a  chauffeur 
in  plum-colored  livery.  Beside  him  was  a  footman 
similarly  garbed.  They  sat  stiffly  erect  as  the  great 
car  swept  into  Movie  Land. 

Clarinda  left  the  car  at  the  door  of  one  of  the  stages 
where  she  was  greeted  by  two  maids  and  an  obsequious 
assistant  director.  She  went  hurriedly  and  somewhat 
breathlessly  to  the  set  where  her  picture  was  being 
made. 

"  CO  sorry  to  have  been  held  up,"  she  gushed  to  the 
^director.    "Is  everything  ready  to  shoot?" 
"Ready!"  he  exploded,  "is  everything  ready,  you 
ask?    Good  Lord,  Clarinda,  we've  been  waiting  here 
more  than  two  hours  for  you!" 

"So  sorry,"  she  smiled  again.  "I  was  delayed,  you 
see.    Unavoidably  delayed." 

She  turned  then  to  one  of  the  maids  who  waited  at 
her  side  and  took  from  her  fingers  an  enormous  square- 
cut  emerald  and  diamond  ring.  From  her  ears  she 
removed  emerald  earrings,  then  carelessly  unclasped 
from  her  throat  a  necklace  of  genuine  pearls.  These 
fabulously  valuable  trinkets  she  handled  as  might  a 
child  who  casts  aside  a  toy  in  the  nursery.  Money  had 
ceased  to  mean  much  in  the  life  of  Clarinda  Covelle. 
It  was  commonly  known  that  her  salary  was  $15,000 
a  week. 

Her  home  in  Beverly  Hills  was  one  of  the  show- 
places  of  the  movie  colony.  She  was  a  girl  who  had 
attained  fame  and  riches.  Yet  deep  in  her  eyes  there 
lurked,  for  the  knowing,  a  nicker  of  desolation.  Her 
life,  it  commonly  was  admitted,  was  incomplete. 

She  had,  of  course,  had  a  love  affair.  Several  of 
them,  as  a  matter  of  fact.  Twice  she  had  been  mar- 
ried. Each  time  a  divorce  had  followed.  There  never 
had  been  direct  scandal  attached  to  Clarinda  and  it 
commonly  was  agreed  that  her  failure  in  the  marital 
state  was  attributable  entirely  to  her  temperament. 

Clarinda  was  regarded  by 
most  motion  picture  produc- 
ers as  a  genius.  Her  appeal  on 
the  silver  screen  was  undeni- 
able. Her  public  was  with- 
out number.  But  the  wise 
were  wont  to  remark  that 
Clarinda  had  everything 
under  the  sun  but  what  she 
wanted  most. 

"It'll    take    me    only    a 


"A  man  likes  to  come 
in  and  find  his  wife 
there  making  a  home 
for  him,"  Tommy  had 
told  her.  "Maybe 
we'd  be  happier  if  you 
didn't  become  a  big 
star.  So  many  of  those 
marriages  break  up, 
and  it  isn't  the  fault  of 
either  one" 


38 


lory 


By 

Chanes    Francis    Coe 

Illustrated  by   Frank    Godwin 


moment  to  make  up,"  she  said,  breathlessly.  "I'll 
be  right  back."  She  slipped  into  a  temporary 
dressing-room  which  had  been  erected  on  the  set 
for  her  convenience.  As  she  did  so,  she  turned 
and  smiled  happily  upon  Tommy  Marvell. 
Tommy  was  what  is  known  as  a  promising 
juvenile  and  he  was  playing  opposite  Clarinda  in 
this  current  production. 

There  was  that  in  the  smile  of  the  star  which 
caused  the  assistant  director  to  glance  inquiringly 
at  his  senior.  The  director  in  turn  nodded  and 
winked.  Then  he  shrugged  his  shoulders.  There 
was  a  suspicion  that  Clarinda  Covelle  might  per- 
haps find  the  love  for  which  she  sought  in  the 
person  of  Tommy  Marvell. 

"TT  would  be  a  great  break  for  Tommy  if  she 
JLfell  for  him,"  the  assistant  whispered. 

"Well,  it  might  make  him  in  pictures,"  the 
director  agreed.  "I  don't  think  he'd  find  much 
happiness,  though.  Clarinda  is  no  bargain  to  get 
along  with." 

The  assistant  director  laughed.  Tommy  Mar- 
vell started  toward  them  and  so  terminated  their 
bit  of  gossip.  ■ 

"What'll  we  shoot  first,  Mr.  Parks?"  he  asked 
of  the  director. 

He  was  an  earnest  lad,  this  Marvell,  and  hand- 
some. He  considered  this  part  opposite  Clarinda 
Covelle  as  the  greatest  opportunity  that  had  come 
during  his  career  in  pictures.  As  a  result,  he  was 
striving  with  every  bit  of  his  talent  to  make  good 
in  it. 

Apparently,  he  was  unsuspicious  of  the  situa- 
tion between  himself  and  Clarinda.  What  fervor 
she  was  able  to  put  into  the  love  scenes,  he 
attributed  to  her  tremendous  histrionic  ability. 
She  was  a  goddess  to  Tommy;  an  unapproachable 
deity  firmly  entrenched  in  the  glittering  success  of 
Hollywood.  The  lad  would  have  considered  any 
personal  feeling  toward  the  girl  presumptuous. 

Shortly,  Clarinda  left  her  dressing-room  and 
came  onto  the  set.  There  ensued  the  business  of 
setting  lights  and  rehearsing.  The  scene  to  be 
played  was  a  love-scene  in  a  garden,  and  Clarinda 
came  at  once  to  Tommy  and  caught  him  by  the 
hand.  She  led  him  across  the  stage  to  a  marble 
bench  near  a  beautiful  fountain,  and  seated  him 
there.    If  her  fingers 


clutched  his  own  some- 
what ardently,  Tommy 
again  attributed  it  to 
the  fact  that  the  genius 
was  composing  herself 
and  preparing  for  the 
simulation  which  lay 
ahead. 

They  went  through 
the  scene  three  times 


"We  will  make  more 
pictures  together, 
Tommy,"  Clarinda 
said,  a  dreamy  light  in 
her  eyes.  "We  do  in- 
spire each  other."  And 
Tommy  had  gone  home 
to  tell  the  great  news 
to  the  little  extra  girl 
who  put  his  happiness 
before  her  own 


89 


and  Tommy,  inexperienced  by  comparison  with  this  famous 
star,  drew  from  her  ardency  inspiration  of  his  own.    The  result 
was  a  most  convincing  shot.    When  they  had  done  and  found  a 
moment  to  rest  while  the  set  was  being  rearranged,  the  feel- 
ing   the   star    had   engendered   during   the   performance 
lingered  within  her. 

"You  have  a  marvelous  future  in  pictures,  Tommy," 
she  said  earnestly. 

Tommy  flushed  with  delight.     ''It's  not  so 
difficult  to  play  a  part  well  when  you  are  the 
inspiration,"  he  returned  gallantly. 

"  Do  you  really  feel  inspired,"  Clarinda 
asked  breathlessly,  "when  you  are  with 
me?" 

"Of  course  I  do,"  Tommy  ans- 
wered.     "Who  wouldn't,   Miss 
Covelle?    You  are  one  of  the 
greatest  actresses  the  screen 
has  ever  known.  Of  course 
I'm  inspired  by  you." 


"You  must  come  up  to  my  house  for  dinner  soon,  Tommy. 
I'll  name  a  day." 

"Wonderful,"  he  promised.     "Indeed  I  should  love  to  come." 
Sensing  perhaps  that  they  were  attracting  attention,  Clarinda 
Covelle  patted  the  lad's  hand  and  smiled.     "Very  well," 
she  said,  "I'll  name  a  day  soon,  Tommy.    Now  we  must 
get  about  our  work." 

After  three  hours  of  work,  Clarinda  Covelle  had 
v  reached  that  point  where  she  advised  the  director 

she  could  not  think  of  continuing  that  day. 
yK  "\  The  result  was  that  the  troupe  was  dis- 

missed   and    Clarinda    caught    Tommy 
Marvell  by  the  arm  and  offered  to  drop 
him  at  his  apartment. 
^         Tommy  went  directly  to  his  dress- 
ing-room and  removed  his  make- 
up.   He  was  a  little  breathless 
at  the  thought  of  riding  in 
that  lavender  Rolls- 
Royce  and  letting  all 


Clarinda  Covelle  was 
in  love,  and  all  Holly- 
wood whispered  about 
it.  Tommy  was  doing 
his  best  to  act  the  role 
of  lover  sincerely 


Clarinda  was  a  few 
years    older     than 
Tommy  and  she  looked  at 
him  now  through  the  eyes  of 
a  wisdom  he   did  not  possess. 
"How  wonderful,"  she  said  softly. 
"I  draw  inspiration  from  you,  too, 
Tommy.     Does  that  surprise  you?" 

Once  again   the  lad   flushed   happily. 
"Of  course  it  surprises  me,"  he  admitted. 
"I  had  no  idea  that  I  could  inspire  such  a 
famous  person  as  you." 

'But  you  do,"  she  said, 
her  fingers  still  clinging  to 
his.  "We  will  make  more 
pictures  together,  Tommy. 
As  a  result,  you  will  climb 
to  the  stardom  you  deserve." 

Tommy  laughed.  "We  all 
dream  of  our  home  in  Bev- 
erly Hills  .  .  .    That  is,  all  of  us  but  those  who  have  them." 

"A  home  should  be  so  much  more  than  just  a  building," 
Clarinda  answered  slowly. 

"Of  course,"  Tommy  said  doubtfully.  "Yes,  of  course  it 
should.  I  think  yours  is  the  most  beautiful  home  in  Beverly 
Hills,  Miss  Covelle." 

"It  is  nice,"  she  admitted.  "Yes,  it's  nice.  And  of  course  I 
have  many  friends  who  come  there." 

"All  the  world  would  come  if  you'd  let  them." 

There  was  a  dreamy  light  in  Clarinda's  eyes  and  she  seemed 
heedless  of  the  confusion  about  the  set.  "Yes,"  she  repeated, 
thoughtfully,  "we  will  make  other  pictures  together.  I'll  see  to 
that,  Tommy,"  she  promised.  "We  do  inspire  each  other.  I'm 
sure  that  will  be  evident  on  the  screen." 

""Ny'OU  make  me  very  happy,"  Tommy  answered. 

J-  "And  you  make  me  happy,  too,  Tommy.  .  .  .  That  is, 
you  could." 

"Well,"  Tommy  promised,  "I  certainly  will,  Miss  Covelle. 
I  never  worked  with  anyone  just  like  you.  But  then,"  he 
hastened  to  add,  "there  isn't  anyone  just  like  you!" 

"I  hope  you'll  always  think  so,"  she  said. 

Tommy  wet  his  lips  and  pulled  thoughtfully  at  his  collar 
"Of  course  I  will,"  he  responded.  "How  could  I  think  any- 
thing else?" 

40 


Hollywood  know  that 
Clarinda  Covelle   had 
placed  upon  him  the  stamp 
of  approval. 
Nothing,  it  seemed  to  him,  could 
mean  more  to  his  career  in  pictures. 
An  immeasurable  happiness  and  sat- 
isfaction filled  him.    In  spite  of  the  fact 
that  he  hurried,  he  found  Clarinda  already 
in  the  car  and  awaiting  him.     It  seemed 
somewhat  strange  that  she  held  his  hand  as 
they  rode  to  his  apartment.     This  he  thought 
was  due  to  the  animation  of  her  conversation  and 
the  outlook  she  had  towards  the  future. 
She  told  him  of  various  stories  that  she  always  had  been 
anxious  to  make  into  pictures  but  never  had  made  because 
she  had  been  unable  to  find  the  right  person  to  play  opposite 
her.     She  intimated  that  Tommy  was  the  right  person,  and 
these  great  vehicles  soon  would  find  expression  on  the  silver 
screen. 

So  all-important  had  this  conversation  seemed  to  the  young 
man  that  he  was  somewhat  ashamed  of  the  very  modest  quar- 
ters he  occupied,  before  which  the  mighty  Clarinda  soon  would 
stop.  The  famed  star,  however,  seemed  not  to  take  notice  of 
anything  but  the  fact  that  their  ride  was  over.  This  she  seemed 
to  resent.  As  Tommy  prepared  to  leave  the  car,  she  laid  both 
hands  over  one  of  his  and  looked  earnestly  upward  into  his  eyes. 

"  A  LL  these  things,  Tommy,"  she  said,  "we  must  talk  over 
-/Vat  great  length.  A  good  picture  is  always  the  result  of 
very  careful  preparation  and  thought.  I  suggest  that  you 
come  up  to  my  home  tomorrow  night  for  dinner." 

"I'd  be  delighted,"  Tommy  said  uncertainly,  "delighted, 
Miss  Covelle.    What  time  shall  I  come?" 

"Oh,  we  won't  be  formal  about  it,"  the  star  answered. 
"When  we  finish  on  the  lot,  we'll  just  get  in  the  car  and  ride  up 
there.  We'll  have  dinner  and  spend  a  quiet  evening.  There's 
so  very,  very  much  to  talk  about  between  you  and  me,  Tommy." 

"Yes,"  he  nodded,  "yes,  there  would  be.  I  can't  tell  you 
how  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  you're  giving  me." 

She  laughed  gently  and  squeezed  his  hand.  Then  the  foot- 
man opened  the  door  and  Tommy  stepped  out,  doffed  his  hat 
and  stood  somewhat  overwhelmed  as  the  great  Rolls-Royce 
pulled  away  and  the  great  star  smiled  at  him  and  waved  her 
tiny  hand.  [  please  turn  to  page  119  J 


Reviewing 

Screen 

Fashions 

with 


LlVEN  though  sh.e  makes-infrequent  appearances  on  the 
screen  these  days,  Alice  Joyce  will  always  be  remem- 
bered for  her  outstandingly  good  taste  in  clothes.  I 
asked  her  to  let  me  show  this  latest  photograph  here  be- 
cause her  hat  illustrates  the  newest  millinery  trend — the 
dip  over  the  eye.  For  Fall  the  tilt  will  be  more  exagger- 
ated and  the  back  of  the  hat  will  not  rest  so  low  on 
the  head. 


M< 


IORE  and  more  we  are  depending  on 
our  weekly  screens-eye  views  of  fashion  to 
guide  our  smart  destinies.  Over  the  tea  cups 
you  hear,  "Did  you  see  that  stunning  thing 
Gloria  Swanson  wears  in  her  new  picture? 
or  Really,  you  know  I  think  you  could  wear 
a  dress  just  like  one  Connie  Bennett  wears  in 
her  last  picture." 

I  find  that  certain  stars  are  followed  as 
much  for  their  striking  tastes  in  clothes  as  for 
their  acting  ability!  In  reviewing  the  current 
picture  fashions  here  every  month,  I  pick  not 
only  good  fashions  but  ones  that  you  can  see 
on  the  screen. 


H 


AVE  you  seen  this  in  "Seed  ?  If  so,  you  probably 
have  one  like  it  by  now — and  smartly  so.  The  white 
Chantilly  lace  is  cleverly  moulded  to  Bette  Davis  slim 
figure  but  flares  out  below  the  hips  in  rows  of  tucked 
tulle.  Nice  earrings,  inherited  from  an  old  French  ances- 
tor of  Bette's.   Grand  hairdress,  too! 


Seymour    Shows    How  — 

The    Stars    Adapt    Clothes    From 


lERE'S  a  nautical  outfit  that  has 
all  the  zip  of  a  salt  breeze.  Con- 
stance did  not  change  this  greatly 
from  the  original  design.  Just  a 
little  detail  here  and  there  was 
altered.  Look  close!  She  had  the 
jacket  revers  made  narrower  and 
took  off  the  contrasting  facings.  A 
good  idea.  She  changed  the  seam- 
ing in  the  white  flannel  skirt  so  that 
it  hangs  straighter — another  good 
thought.  And  she  wears  a  medium- 
brimmed  felt  hat  trimmed  in  the 
blue  of  the  jacket,  instead  of  a 
turban.    Altogether  a  jaunty  outfit. 


L.VERY  star  has  her  little  pet  theories  on  chic.  Each  likes  to  give  her 
costumes  a  striking  or  individual  twist  that  stamps  them  as  hers.  Re- 
cently, comparing  the  studio  designer's  sketches  with  the  costumes 
as  they  appeared  in  the  picture,  I  decided  that  you  would  be  inter- 
ested in  seeing  how  it  is  done.  The  costumes  shown  here  appeared 
in  "The  Common  Law" — the  sketches  are  those  by  the  studio  de- 
signer,- the  photographs  show  what  Constance  Bennett  and  Hedda 
Hopper  did  to  them  before  they  wore  them  on  the  screen.  Both 
Constance  and  Hedda  are  famous  for  their  good  fashion  sense.  Which 
costumes  do  you  think  are  smarter,  sketches  or  photographs? 


THINK  Connie  wins  on  this 
one!  The  changes  aren't  radi- 
cal but  they  certainly  improve 
the  costume.  There's  the  busi- 
ness of  all  the  intricate  seam- 
ing— she  does  away  with  a 
lot  of  it.  Again  she  makes  her 
skirt  straighter.  The  fabrics 
are  different.  And  I  must  say 
I  think  her  arrangement  of  the 
turban  is  smarter  than  that  of 
the  sketch. 


The    Studio     Designers    Models 


EDDA  must  have  taken  a  firm  stand  on  this  costume. 
Can't  you  hear  her  say,  "No,  no,  I  don't  want  that  all 
bunched  up  around  my  neck!'"  Anyway,  whatever  she 
said,  the  results  are  better.  Much  smarter  without  that 
extra  fur  on  the  sleeve  and  with  the  neckline  of  the 
caoe  tied  at  one  side  and  held  by  a  clip  at  the  other. 
Sheer  crepe  with  fox  is  the  combination — a  very 
popular  one  for  more  formal  afternoon  wear  this 
season.  As  you  can  see  the  hat  was  not  changed  very 
much  except  that  the  feather  arrangement  is  more  Raf- 
tering to  Hedda  the  way  it  is  worn  in  the  picture. 


V-.ONNIE  had  a  fitter's  holiday  on  this  dress! 
It  has  only  a  few  recognizable  points  in  com- 
mon with  the  original.  This  time  I  will  have  to 
give  the  medal  to  the  designer,  however.  I  like 
the  longer  line  of  the  blouse,  the  softer  arrange- 
ment of  the  scarf  and  the  tweed  patterned  fabric 
rather  than  the  smooth  woolen.  Also,  the  con- 
trasting belt  instead  of  the  self-fabric  one. 
Sorry,  Connie,  to  be  so  critical.  I  think  you 
usually  know  what  s  what. 


Three    Smart    Fashion    "Shots'7 


F 


rom 


N 


ew 


Pict 


ures 


T, 


HE  ways  of  contrast  are  infinite!  Lita  Chevret  uses  French  blue 
and  flesh  colored  silk  to  advantage  in  this  Summer  dinner  ensemble. 
I  like  the  brief  jacket  with  its  full  sleeves.  Notice  how  the  bodice 
is  light  and  shirrs  up  in  front — clever  touch.  The  length  is  right,  too. 
Worn  in  "Everything's  Rosie." 

You  girls  who  are  looking  for  the  perfect  tennis  or  golf  dress, 
choose  this.  It  is  white  cotton  mesh  done  in  trim,  tailored  style. 
The  pocket  effect  is  jaunty.  The  beret  is  yellow.  All  to  be  seen 
on  Carole  Lombard  in  "I  Take  This  Woman." 


VOTE  this  a  perfect  mid- 
Summer  frock.  The  touches  of 
white  organdy  give  the  softly 
colored  print  a  crisp,  coo 
look.  The  shallow  crowned 
white  panama  with  its  con- 
trasting band  is  one  of  th 
most  popular  hats  of  the  mo- 
ment. Virginia  Cherrill  wears 
this  in  her  new  picture,  "The 
Brat." 


_ 


. 


Ursula  Parrott  had 
never  worked  until  a 
divorce  made  it 
necessary  for  the 
support  of  herself 
and  her  child.  Then 
her  novels  brought 
her  fame  and  money 
beyond  her  highest 
hopes.  But  with  them 
came  added  respon- 
sibilities 


The  effort  and  hard 
work  that  are  re- 
quired to  build  a  suc- 
cessful career  should 
be  balanced  by  cer- 
tain compensations. 
But  these  compensa- 
tions are  for  the  man 
who  succeeds,  not  for 
the  woman,  says  Miss 
Parrott.  And  she 
tells  you  why 


Should  Women  Work? 


N: 


The   clever   girl  who 

wrote   "Ex-wife"   and 

"Strangers  May  Kiss" 

speaks  her  mind 


"O  woman  really  wants  to 
work." 

;  Marriage  is  shot  to 
the  devil." 

"The  women  who,  in  the  last 
generation,  painted  china,  might 
have  painted  great  canvases,  had 
there  been  the  necessity.  But  what 
difference  would  it  have  made  in 
the  long  run?" 

"My  career  stood  in  the  way  of  happiness  for  me.  Is  my 
career  worth  that?" 

"  Is  the  knowledge  that  she  must  spend  a  lonely  middle-age  a 
drawback  to  the  professional  woman?" 

"  The  manners  have  changed,  man's  instinct  has  not.  A  man 
is  still  annoyed  by  the  fact  his  wife  earns  more  than  he  does." 

This,  gentle  seeker  after  truth,  is  the  litany  and  the  creed  of 
Ursula  Parrott,  authoress  of  "  Ex-wife,"  "  Strangers  May  Kiss," 
and  the  unpublished  novel,  "Love  Goes  Past,"  which  Samuel 
Goldwyn  has  bought  as  a  probable  vehicle  for  Gloria  Swanson. 

Miss  Parrott  is  young,  little,  dark,  with  a  small,  intense 
mouth  that  cuts  a  crooked  caper  upon  her  face,  and  straight, 
dark  hair  with  a  scattered  bang  over  her  forehead. 

Her  words  are  important  to  the  modern  woman.     She  faces 
squarely  the  vital  problems  of  this  new 
existence.  n  /"*  ~ 

"I  am  not  a  feminist,"  she  said.     "In  £j  y       W  CI , 


fact,  I  resent  the  feminists — they 
are  the  ones  who  started  all  this.  I 
wonder  if  they  realized  what  they 
were  letting  us  all  in  for.  We  don't 
want  this  freedom.  We  only  work 
when  we  are  forced,  by  pressure,  to 
do  so. 

"Mary  Roberts  Rinehart,  Kath- 
leen Norris — and  many  more  who 
come  to  mind,  worked  because 
they  had  to  work  and  for  no  other  reason. 

"  When  a  woman  cannot  look  to  marriage  as  the  end  and  aim 
of  her  existence,  she  turns  to  her  career.  She  takes  on  the 
support,  as  a  rule,  of  her  family.  I  didn't  go  to  work  until  I  was 
divorced  and  it  was  necessary  for  me  to  support  my  child.  Now 
I  have  many  responsibilities — but  without  the  compensations. 
I  do  a  man's  job  and  earn  much  more  than  the  average  man, 
but  when  I've  finished  my  working  in  the  evening  I  come  home 
to  what? 

"A  man  completes  his  day  at  the  office  and  finds,  waiting  for 
him  at  the  door  of  his  home,  a  little  clinging  vine  to  comfort  him 
and  tell  him  he's  a  fine  person.  I  find,  after  dinner,  a  handsome 
and  expensive  coffee  service  that  I  bought  for  myself.  I'd 
prefer  a  cheaper  and  less  beautiful  one  had  it  been  given  me  by 
someone  who  loved  me. 

y£  "The   zero   hour  for   the   professional 

0  P  ft  [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  101  ] 

£5 


IF  she  gets  the  right  breaks  in  stories  and  direction  Tallulah 
Bankhead  will  become  one  of  the  really  outstanding  personalities 
of  motion  pictures.    On  the  opposite  page  John  S.  Cohen,  Jr.,  one 
of  New  York's  leading  picture  critics,  paints  a  vivid  picture  of  a 
vividly  interesting  woman 


46 


Alabama 


London 


Conventional  Southern  aris- 
tocracy and  the  ultra-sophis- 
tication of  Mayfair  evolve  a 
remarkable  personality 


IT  is  the  opening  night 
of  "Tomorrow  and  To- 
morrow," the  Gilbert  Mil- 
ler production  of  Philip 
Barry's  new  play,  which  is  still 
running. 

Tallulah  Bankhead,  grand- 
daughter of  the  late  Senator 
John  Hollis  Bankhead,  daugh- 
ter of  Congressman  William  B. 
Bankhead  and  niece  of  Senator 
John  H.  Bankhead,  all  of  Ala- 
bama, where  for  more  than 
one  hundred  years  and  not  less 
than  five  generations  the  family 
has  been  socially,  politically, 
and,  as  Southern  wealth  goes, 
financially  important,  is  to 
attend  the  play  with  George 
Cukor,  the  director  of  her  first, 
and  at  the  time,  unreleased 
American  talking  picture, 
"Tarnished  Lady." 

She  has  just  returned  to 
America  following  her  ten 
years  in  London,  where  she 
established  herself  as  the  most 
popular  stage  star  England  has 
had  for  many  years.  All  sorts 
of  stories  have  preceded  her 
return  to  America,  stories  of 
her  imperiousness,  stories  of 
her  temper,  stories  of  her 
irresponsibilities,  stories,  in 
fact,  establishing  her  as  a 
modern  of  moderns  in  the 
matter  of  individuality,  in  the 
matter  of  living  her  own  life. 

"T'M  going  to  be  a  paragon  of 
J-dignity  at  this  opening,"  she 
told  one  of  her  secretaries  as 
she  was  being  dressed.  "It  is 
my  first  public  appearance 
since  my  return.  Dress  me  in 
white,  you  fool  (this  is  de- 
livered with  an  infectious  play- 
ful spirit)  and  fish  out  that 
diamond  necklace  given  me  by 
some  member  of  the  aristocracy, 
whose  name  I  cannot  recall!" 

The  theater  is  well  filled,  as  they  walk  in.  The  lights  are 
about  to  be  dimmed  for  the  rising  of  the  curtain. 

At  least  three-fourths  of  the  lower  floor  audience  is  look- 
ing at  Tallulah,  in  white,  relieved  solely  by  diamonds,  her 
mocking  eyes  gazing  over  the  house,  her  hair,  her  ash  blonde 
hair — which  Ethel  Barrymore  has  described  as  the  most  beauti- 
ful she  has  ever  seen  and  a  color  that  the  French  cannot  dye — 
lovelier  than  when  she  left  America  ten  years  before.  She  is  a 
glamorous  figure,  a  well-poised  goddess. 

When  suddenly  and  accidentally  George  Cukor  steps  on  her 
train,  Tallulah  tore  lose  on  him  in  her  own  language,  and  a  blue 
haze  went  up.  At  least  three-fourths  of  the  downstairs  audience 
heard  all. 

"Oh  well,  what's  the  use,  my  dear,"  she  said  after  the  show, 
and  with  an  air  of  relief  at  having  promptly  destroyed  the  new 
dignified  Tallulah  and  having  thereby  uncovered  the  ebullient, 
domineering,  irresponsible,  fun-loving  person  that  she  is 
underneath. 

That  is  Tallulah  Bankhead  today — mercurial,  independent, 
funny,  tempestuous,  and  caring  little  for  public  opinion  pro- 
vided she  is  giving  a  discussable  show  at 

Today,    she    is    a    positive,    definite      By   J 0 lift    O.     LsOrlCTl,    J /. 


The  only  time  Tallulah  was  in  danger  of  hav- 
ing a  scene  "stolen"  from  her  in  "Tarnished 
Lady"  was  when  this  baby  platinum  blonde 
appeared 


personality,  ruthless  when  she 
wants  something  or  someone 
in  the  lines  of  her  career  and 
her  emotional  life,  but  gener- 
ous to  the  point  of  complete 
carelessness  towards  those 
whom  she  likes  or  for  whom  she 
feels  some  degree  of  sympathy. 

In  other  words,  she  is  the 
modern  American  woman  who 
has  caught  up  the  new  freedom 
of  her  generation  and  made  it  a 
part  of  herself;  and  in  still 
other  words,  she  has  the  mind 
of  a  man,  the  mind,  in  fact,  of 
an  adventurous,  reckless, 
pleasure-loving  man  with  a 
ruddy  Elizabethan  vocabulary. 

"She  knows  all  the  answers!" 
So  stated  the  placards  adver- 
tising her  first  talkie,  "Tar- 
nishedLady,"  wherein  she  made 
a  personal  triumph  despite  a 
wavering  film. 

She  does,  indeed,  know  all 
the  answers;  and  the  wordings 
of  those  answers  are  expletives 
and  dynamite. 

That  is  Tallulah  Bankhead 
today — 


TT 

iFa 


[T  is  late  afternoon  at  the 
"airmount  finishing  school 
for  girls  in  Washington,  D.  C, 
which  Tallulah  and  her  sister, 
Jean,  one  year  older,  are 
attending  preparatory  to  their 
debut  parties  to  be  made  in 
Washington  society.  Tallulah, 
who  is  today  twenty-nine  years 
old,  is  then  sixteen.  Jean  is 
the  flapper  of  the  two;  Jean  is 
the  pursued  and  pursuing  one; 
Tallulah  is  rather  plump,  a  bit 
of  a  tomboy  and  trickster,  but 
very  conventional  morally  and 
a  bit  man-shy.  In  other  words, 
Jean  has  all  the  beaux  and 
Tallulah  has  only  a  slight 
scattering.  She  has,  in  fact,  only 
one  young  man  whom  she  really 
Jean  has  set  eyes  on  him  and 


likes  and  who  really  likes  her. 
wants  him  for  herself. 

"Jean,  now  you  can't,  you  mustn't  take  him  away  from  me! 
So  many  boys  are  crazy  about  you!  He's  the  only  real  beau 
I've  got!  Please,  Jean — !"  This  last  was  uttered  plaintively, 
pleadingly,  but  Jean  paid  not  the  slightest  attention. 

And  that  plaintive,  second  sister  was  the  Tallulah  Bankhead  of 
today  as  a  growing  girl,  there  being  practically  no  connection 
between  the  two  Tallulahs,  save  a  gnawing  theatrical  ambition. 

THAT  was  the  Tallulah  Bankhead  of  sixteen,  who  was,  at  the 
age  of  seventeen,  to  make  her  debut  in  Washington  society, 
where  political,  social,  and  diplomatic  worlds  meet,  and  who 
was  five  months  later  to  throw  away  the  conventional  life,  to 
throw  away  the  conventions  of  a  Southern  girl  of  good  birth 
and  family  and  embark  for  New  York  on  a  stage  career.    The 
South  is  family  and  tradition  ridden  and  young  girls  of  Tallu- 
lah's  station  are  groomed  to  grow,  behave,  marry,  and  settle 
down  to  a  life  of  Southern  society,  in  other  words,  to  dance  as 
grandma  used  to  dance.    In  Tallulah's  generation,  there  have 
been  various   rebels,   but   very    few   of 
these  younger  rebels  have  carried  the 
rebellion      [  please  turn  to  page  110] 


nside  Politics  of 


the  Studios 


By   Ruth    Biery 


IT  wasn't  that  Gloria  Swanson  liked  cats;  it  was  that  Pola 
Negri  hated  them. 
It  was  back  in  1922.  The  construction  superintendent  at 
Famous  Players-Lasky,  now  Paramount,  was  a  cat  enthu- 
siast. No  stray  but  could  find  a  home  on  the  lot.  At  high  noon 
he  fed  them.  The  number  of  free  boarders  reached  103.  They 
kept  the  premises  free  from  rats  but  as  the  number  mounted 
and  multiplied,  no  one  could  deny  that  the  pets  became  pests. 
Undoubtedly,  the  officials  would  soon  have  had  them  exter- 
minated when  Pola  Negri  entered  and  decided  to  handle  the 
extermination. 

"They  must  go!"  she  ordered.  "I  hate  cats." 
And  the  next  noon  Gloria  Swanson  began  feeding  them. 
Now,  I  can  find  no  one  who  remembers  Gloria's  "lily  white 
hands"  actually  doing  the  feeding  but  there  are  many  who 
recall  dozens  of  cats  congregating  before  her  bungalow  to 
receive  delicate  morsels  of  raw  hamburger. 

"They  must  remain!"  Gloria  ordered.    "I  love  cats." 
And  with  these  cats  began  one  of  the  greatest  political  battles 
in  the  history  of  a  city  and  an  industry  where  politics  rule — 


Famous  feuds  of 
players  —  Intrigues 
of  the  lots — How 
stars  are  made  and 
ruined  by  their  use 
of  political  sense 


where  politics  make  or  unmake  fortunes  more  rapidly  than  do 
either  the  national  Republican  or  Democratic  parties. 

Success  in  politics  gives  President  Hoover  a  salary  of  $75,000 
a  year. 

Success  in  politics  gives  Gloria  Swanson,  today,  approxi- 
mately, $500,000  a  year  for  two  pictures.  But  if  Gloria  had  not 
played  her  cat-cards  correctly  she  might  be  making  one  zero 
rather  than  five.  For  it  was  with  Gloria  as  it  is  with  all  of 
Hollywood's  people:  politics  build  or  destroy  their  fame  and 
their  fortunes. 

Negri  was  a  new  personality.  She  had  been  brought  to  this 
country  on  a  calliope  of  international  publicity.  Until  her 
arrival,  Gloria  had  been  Queen.    Negri  threatened  her  reign. 

Pola  was  dynamic;  Gloria  was  dynamic.     Pola  was  sensa- 


Gloria  Swanson,  astute  veteran  of  the 
early  days,  knows  her  politics  as  well  as 
her  camera  angles.  Her  historic  battle 
with  Pola  Negri  proved  to  the  film  world 
her  studio  shrewdness 


Pola,  dramatic,  exotic,  dynamic,  and  a 
good  actress,  lacked  the  political  sixth 
sense  which  is  essential  to  survive  in 
Hollywood.  The  result :  she  didn't  survive. 
Is  she  smarter  now? 


IS 


That  little  Mexican  spitfire, 
Lupe  Velez,  may  lack  the  polit- 
ical finesse  of  some  of  her  con- 
temporaries, but  she  has  her 
own  system  with  directors 


As  smooth  as  the  satin  she  wears  so 
well!  That's  La  Tashman  who  suc- 
cessfully campaigned  in  her  own 
behalf.  A  woman  with  sense — 
political  sense ! 


The  ethereal,  virginal  qualities 
of  Lillian  Gish  seem  to  belie 
the  presence  of  any  guile  in  her 
girlish  make-up,  but  that's  the 
trick.  Look  out! 


tional;  Gloria  was  sensational.  Pola  was  dramatic;  Gloria  was 
dramatic.  They  played  the  same  type  of  roles.  Gloria  must 
fight  not  only  for  her  place  in  the  arc-light  of  world  fame  but  she 
must  fight  for  it  in  studio  prestige. 

If  Negri  became  the  more  powerful  on  the  lot,  she  would  get 
first  choice  of  stories,  directors,  casts,  cameramen,  electricians — 
get  the  first  notice  from  producers.  Acting  made  comparatively 
little  difference.  With  the  best  stories,  directors,  cameramen, 
one  would  seem  to  act  as  well  as  the  other.  Two  people  could 
not  have  the  best,  however.    Gloria  knew  this.    So  did  Pola. 

GLORIA  could  not  let  this  new  rival  clear  the  lot  of  cats.  It 
would  immediately  establish  her  power — prove  to  all  of  the 
workers  (from  producers  to  stage  sweepers)  that  when  Pola 
spoke,  her  words  were  orders. 

So  Gloria  decided  to  love  cats. 

The  battle  raged  until  Pola  departed.  Pola  hated  loud  music ; 
Gloria  had  a  brass  band  play  on  her  set — next  door  to  Pola's. 
Both  were  invited  to  the  famous  salesmen's  banquet  of  1922; 
both  waited  for  hours  to  outwit  the  other  and  gain  the  last  and 
most  brilliant  entrance. 

Gloria  had  the  most  gorgeous  dressing-room  on  the  lot;  Pola 
maneuvered  until  she  had  Frank  Woods,  head  scenarist,  turned 
from  his  bungalow  that  she  might  move  in  and  outlavish  the 
Swanson  headquarters.  Gloria  climaxed  the  battle  by  announc- 
ing she  would  never  step  foot  on  the  lot  again  while  Pola  was 
there — and  had  herself  propelled  in  a  wheel  chair  to  keep  her 
promise. 

And  today,  Lilyan  Tashman  is  having  the  most  elaborate 
dressing-room  furniture  possible  designed  for  her  new  head- 
quarters on  the  same  lot!  Less  than  a  week  after  Tashman 
signed  her  new  contract  with  Paramount,  everyone  on  the  lot 
was  talking  of  La  Tashman's  "new  fixings."  "You  must  see 
them,"  half  a  dozen  people  told  me. 

"Not  yet!"  Lilyan  smiled  mysteriously.  "I  am  going  to 
have  a  tea.    Sort  of  a  housewarming — " 

A  tea  for  the  press,  of  course.  A  tea  which  will  impress  not 
only  the  writing  congregation  but  Paramount  that  Tashman  is 
a  Queen  and  to  be  given  a  Queen's  consideration. 

Lilyan  would  be  the  first  to  admit  it,  incidentally.  She  once 
told  me:  "Clothes  are  my  stock  in  trade.  Being  known  as  the 
best-dressed  woman  has  been  politically  important!" 


Being  the  best-dressed  woman  and  an  adroit  social  enter- 
tainer! 

Lilyan  has,  to  an  acute  degree,  that  sixth  sense  so  essential  to 
Hollywood  climbers.  The  political  sense!  I  can  call  Lilyan  a 
climber  because  they  are  all  climbers.  Every  person  in  the 
picture  profession.  There  are  only  two  differentiations  between 
them:  Those  who  continue  to  mount  and  those  who  commence 
to  slip.  The  one  is  really  politically  minded;  the  other  isn't.  It 
is  exactly  the  same  in  professional  politics,  in  the  medical  pro- 
fession, in  law,  in  banking  or  any  other  business. 

Lilyan  was  a  Follies  girl.  Her  background  is  foggy  but  no 
foggier  than  that  of  many  others.  She  had  intelligence;  she 
developed  poise.  But  these  attributes  would  not  have  placed 
her  at  Paramount  at  approximately  $1,750  a  week.  Meeting 
the  right  people — the  people  who  would  think  Lilyan  Tashman 
the  moment  a  role  of  the  Tashman  type  was  conceived — would 

She  met  the  right  people.  It  took  years  to  do  it.  Lilyan 
Tashman  was  not  accepted  when  she  first  came  to  this  city. 
She  has  made  herself  accepted.  Fortunately  she  was  a  capable 
actress  and  could  credit  the  opportunities  she  made  for  herself, 
but  being  an  actress  could  not  and  did  not  secure  the  oppoi- 
tunities  for  her. 

And  what  Lilyan  has  done  for  herself,  she  has  also  done  for 
Edmund  Lowe.  It  is  Lilyan  who  plans  the  campaigns  in  that 
family.  She  reads  every  script  suggested  for  him;  she  handles 
his  money  as  well  as  her  own.  Undoubtedly  it  was  Lilyan 
who  suggested  that  Edmund  Lowe  tell  his  press-agent  that  his 
salary  at  Fox  ranged  between  $3,500  and  $4,000. 

TO  be  considered  in  the  "big  pay"  is  good  box-office 
politics.  It  has  been  proved  that  fans  like  to  believe  that  their 
heroes  make  fabulous  sums  of  money.  I  believe  an  intimate 
check  of  the  Fox  pavroll  would  show  that  Edmund  Lowe  gets 
a  little  less  than  $2,500. 

Social  amenities  are  commonly  political  sallies  in  Hollywood. 
But  they  must  be  used  craftily.  I  know  a  press-agent  who  begs 
to  entertain  writers.  She  urges  them  to  go  to  the  homes  of 
clients.  But  immediately  after  such  a  visit,  or  sometimes  even 
during  it,  she  suggests  a  story  centering  around  the  person 
visited.  That  is  not  crafty;  it  is  not  truly  politically  minded. 
On  the  other  hand,  another  representative  sees  that  writers  meet 
her  clients — that  they  are  amused  [  please  turn  to  page  106  ] 


One    of   the    most    interesting    inside    stories    of 
Hollywood  ever   printed — Read   it   through    to   the   end 


A!) 


WILLIAM  FAVERSHAM,  one  of  the  old  stage  ever- 
greens, told  Robert  Montgomery  he  should  be  tending 
a  gas  station,  anything  but  acting.  Now  more  people  flock 
to  the  cinema  to  see  Bob  than  ever  heard  of  Mr.  Faversham 
or  read  his  old  pal,  Mr.  Shakespeare 


50 


He  Kept  On  Working 


SEVEN  years  on  the  stage  and 
never  in  a  hit  was  the  rather  for- 
lorn record  Bob  Montgomery 
took  to  Hollywood  with  him. 
Not  the  best  recommendation  with 
which  to  begin  a  career  in  the  talkies, 
but  Bob  stood  by  it  with  the  alibi  that 
it  wasn't  his  fault  the  plays  had 
flopped.    They  were  bad  plays. 

Still  there  were  those  who  didn't 
blame  it  all  on  the  plays.  William 
Faversham    was    one.      He    thought 

Montgomery  was  a  bad  actor  as  well,  and  told  him  so,  none  too 
kindly,  in  his  first  stage  appearance. 

It  was  in  a  play  called  "Mask  in  the  Face,"  in  which  Faver- 
sham was  interested.  After  witnessing  the  first  night  per- 
formance in  which  Montgomery  played  six  small  bits — at 
five  dollars  a  bit — he  wrote  Bob  a  note,  insisting  he  try  bond 
selling,  auto  selling,  even  apple  selling — anything  but  acting. 

Likewise,  when  Montgomery,  signed  by  Samuel  Goldwyn  to 
play  opposite  Yilma  Banky  in  "This  Is  Heaven,"  reported 
to  Al  Santell,  the  director,  Santell  fired  him  after  a  couple  of 
days,  saying  he  didn't  know  how  to  act. 

To  anyone  less  cheerful  and  less  confident  of  his  own  ability 
than  Bob  Montgomery,  this  might  very  well  have  been  the 
final  blow.  But  not  Bob.  Disregarding  Santell's  opinion  quite 
as  blithely  as  he  ignored  Faversham's  many  years  before, 
he  kept  right  on  plugging,  and  today,  two  years  after  he  made 
his  first  appearance  in  Hollywood,  he  is  one  of  the  M-G-M 
headliners,  right  up  on  the  same  level  in  fan  mail,  popularity 


Told  he  wasn't  an  ac- 
tor, Bob  Montgomery 
set  out  to  prove  he's 
a  good  one 


By  James  M.  Kahn 


least,    was    something    a    little    more 
romantic.     Dipping  up  and  down  in 
the  briny  was  adventurous  and  excit 
ing,  but  deck  handing  as  a  career  still 
didn't  seem   the  right   thing. 

It  was  upon  his  return  t.>  Xew  York 
that  he  was  definitely  set  on  the  up- 
ward climb.  He  roomed  with  another 
boy  his  own  age,  Sam  Janney,  who 
has  since  died.  Sam  was  an  ambitious 
would-be  playwright,  who  put  both 
the  acting  and  writing  bee  into  Hob's 

bonnet.    These  twin  ambitions  still  buzz  as  enthusiasticallv  in 

the  Montgomery  chapcau  as  they  did  when  Janney  first  planted 

them  there. 

It  was  Janney  who  got  Bob  the  chance  to  play  those  six 

bits  in  "Mask  in  the  Face."    Our  hero  played  a  butler,  a  valet, 

a  mourner  at  a  funeral,  a  guest  at  a  party,  an  old  man  and  a 

voice    off-stage.      You 

already   know   what 

William   Faversham 

thought  of  his  acting. 

[ PLEASE    TURN 
TO   PAGE    110 


^^W      *-' 


Remember  this  scene  from  "Untamed"? 
It  was  what  started  the  fans  clamoring  for 
"that  new  leading  man  of  Joan  Craw- 
ford's." And  it  was  Bob  Montgomery's 
big  break  in  the  films.  Now  he's  a  star 
in  the  best  Horatio  Alger  fashion! 


and  box-office  appeal  with  Norma  Shearer,  Joan  Crawford  and 
other  Metro  stars. 

His  rise  has  been  meteoric,  so  meteoric,  in  fact,  that  one  is 
inclined  to  forget  he  ever  knew  failure.  In  twenty-four  months 
in  Hollywood  he  played  in  seventeen  pictures  and  was  idle  only 
eleven  working  days.  He  is  a  tireless,  intelligent  and  ambitious 
hard  worker,  which  explains  his  present  stardom.  He  didn't 
high  jump  to  prominence  with  one  explosive,  dazzling  display 
of  genius.  He  isn't  that  kind  of  actor.  He  got  there  because 
he  didn't  let  seven  years  of  failure  and  discouragement  slacken 
his  steady,  even  pace.  He  just  kept  on  working,  and  today, 
at  twenty-seven,  he  has  arrived. 

GOING  back  ten  years,  to  the  foot  of  the  hill  he  has  success- 
fully climbed,  one  sees  with  what  stumbling  steps  Bob  Mont- 
gomery began  the  slow,  steady  progress  to  his  present  heights. 

Bob,  a  student  at  Pawling  School  in  Pawling,  New  York,  had 
just  learned  that  his  father,  vice-president  of  a  rubber  com- 
pany, had  died  and  that  the  family  fortunes  were  insufficient 
for  him  to  continue  at  this  fashionable  school.  He  had  to  get 
out  and  work. 

Like  other  normal  boys  of  the  prep  school  age — he  was  just 
seventeen— Bob's  ideas  of  what  constituted  the  first  step 
towards  a  successful  career  were  none  too  sound.  He  didn't 
know  just  where  to  turn,  so  he  turned  to  the  first  thing  at  hand, 
which  was  being  a  mechanic's  helper  in  a  railroad  yard.  This 
job  consisted  in  going  around  hitting  Pullman  car  wheels  with 
a  hammer.    He  doesn't  know  yet  what  the  idea  was. 

Then  he  went  to  work  in  an  iron  foundry.  That  didn't 
seem  to  be  getting  him  anywhere,  either,  so  he  shipped  as  a 
deck  hand  on  the  Standard  Oil  tanker  "Caddo."     Here,  at 


"Why  do  actors  make 
themselves  miser- 
able by  pretending  to 
be  important?"  Paul 
mused  aloud  to  Ca- 
mille.  "No  more  bluff 
for  us  after  this!" 


T 
Y 


By 

M  att 
Taylor 


Illustrated 

by 

Everett    Shinn 


PAUL  GRANTON  twisted  his  way  with  haughty  dignity 
through  the  crowded  tables  of  Mori's,  scowling  as  he  saw 
his  favorite  corner  occupied.     He  returned  half  a  dozen 
bows    with    gracious    smiles,    condescended    to    chat   a 
moment  with  a  friend  or  two,  and  ignored  with  some  disdain 
the  tourists,  who  were  there  to  stare  at  the  great  and  near- 
great  and  to  exchange  shrill,  giggling  whispers. 

Nellie,  the  waitress,  took  his  cane  and  swank  gray  hat  as  he 
found  a  place.  "Crowded  again,"  he  complained  to  her. 
"Nothing  but  tourists — gaping  if  they  see  an  extra  girl  in 
make-up,  or  a  character  man  with  a  beard!" 

"You  oughtn't  to  let  them  bother  you,  Mr.  Granton," 
Nellie  said,  with  a  smile  as  dazzling  as  her  golden  hair.  "None 
of  'em  seem  to  recognize  you."  He  looked  at  her  sharply.  He 
felt  she  had  been  about  to  say  "remember  you." 


52 


"The  ox  joints,"  he  ordered  gruffly,  throwing  aside  the  card. 
Then,  with  a  sigh,  "I  don't  know  why  I  come  here." 

Which  wasn't  true,  for  deep  down  in  his  heart  Granton 
knew  why  he  was  a  regular  at  Mori's.  For  one  thing,  he  came 
with  the  secret  hope  that  the  tourists  would  be  rude  enough  to 
point  and  stare  at  him.  Fifteen  years  ago,  when  he  was  broader 
of  chest  and  narrower  of  waist,  and  when  the  aggressiveness  of 
his  chin  and  the  brilliance  of  his  smile  were  attained  without 
effort,  they  would  have  crowded  around  his  table  begging 
autographs. 

For  the  tired,  middle-aged  man  with  the  worried  circles  under 
his  eyes,  and  the  artificially  darkened  hair,  was  the  Paul  Gran- 
ton of  a  past  movie  generation.  There  had  been  a  dozen  "great 
lovers  of  the  screen"  since  his  day.  Granton  could  match  press 
clippings  with  most  of  them. 


Love  gets  involved 
with  camera  angles 
and  close-ups  in  this 
real  life  story  of 
Hollywood 


But,  more  practically  and  definitely,  he  came  to  Mori's  with 
the  hope  that  some  of  the  directors  and  executives  who  lunched 
there  would  see  him  and  give  him  a  job.  His  first  hope  was 
granted  occasionally;  the  second  but  rarely. 

His  eyes  wandered  coldly  over  the  room.  Camillc  was  sitting 
against  the  wall,  lunching  with  May  Spring.  Their  eyes  met 
and  she  smiled  broadly,  to  show  the  dimples  which  had  once 
made  her  famous.  He  attempted  his  gayest  salute,  and  bowed 
to  May. 

He  hadn't  seen  Camille  for  months,  and  had  been  wondering 
if  she  was  trying  vaudeville  again.  But  after  all,  he  mused, 
there  was  no  more  vaudeville— and  there  was  no  more  Camille. 

Not  the  old  Camille,  at  any  rate,  who  had  been  his  leading 
ladv  and  whose  name  had  shone  with  his  in  electric  lights.  Her 
face  was  flabby,  she  had  done  pretty  well  with  her  figure,  but 
the  effort  had  brought  a  strained,  nervous  look  about  the  eyes. 

He  had  loved  Camille  when  they  were  married  seventeen 
years  ago.  He  even  loved  her,  he  thought,  when  they  were 
divorced  fifteen  years  ago.  But  of  course  no  man  could  live 
with  a  woman  who  had  said  the  things  Camille  had  said,  that 
fatal  evening  after  the  preview.  She  had  said,  with  delibera- 
tion and  unmistakable  sincerity:  "Of  all  the  lens  hogs  I  ever 
worked  with,  you  are  the  darndest!" 

And  approximately  two  minutes  later  she  had  added:  "I  ve 
stood  all  I  can!  Who  do  you  think's  been  putting  this  team 
over?    Not  you— you  fifth-rate  stock  leading  man!" 

53 


"Camille!"  he  had  cried,  dramatically.  "After  all  I've  done 
for  you!" 

"All  you've  done  for  me,"  she  snapped  back,  "is  grab  three 
close-ups  to  my  one,  and  back  up  on  me  in  all  our  love  scenes. 
The  back  of  my  neck  has  been  photographed  from  every  angle. 
And  you  do  everything  but  shadow-boxing  in  my  biggest 
scenes,  trying  to  steal  'em!" 

THE  divorce  proceedings  that  followed  had  made  the  front 
page  everywhere,  and  he  had  received  thousands  of  letters 
offering  sympathy  and  advice.  He  and  Camille  had  not 
worked  together  since.  But  they  were  friends  again,  and  she 
had  been  kind  when  he  was  so  sick  and  almost  died. 

He  had  been  able,  fortunately,  to  keep  his  head  up  and  suc- 
cessfully bluff  her.  No  one,  much  less  Camille,  knew  how  tough 
the  sledding  had  been  for  him  in  recent  years.  She,  poor  thing, 
was  trying  to  bluff,  too — but  of  course  he  saw  through  it.  She 
was  clinging  with  a  feeble  hold  to  the  outermost  fringe  of  the 
movie  world,  and  grabbing  at  infrequent  vaudeville  tours.  He 
was  sorry  for  her.  There  was,  he  admitted,  a  bit  of  his  old 
Camille  left  as  she  chatted  and  laughed  with  May  Spring  there 
against  the  wall. 

Lou  Leddy,  his  manager,  slapped  him  suddenly  on  the  back 
and  grinned  down  on  him.  "Come  over  to  the  office  when 
you're  through,"  he  said. 

Paul  did  not  conceal  his  eagerness.  "Ah!  Something  coming 
up?" 

"Maybe,"  said  Lou,  laconically.     "See  you  later." 

Paul  finished  the  ox  joints,  and  wandered  out  on  the  Boule- 
vard toward  Lou's  office.  He  hoped  it  was  something  definite 
this  time.  He  wished  he  could  make  another  test — in  the  last 
he  had  been  photographed  miserably,  and  been  made  to  work 
with  an  inexperienced  girl. 

Lou  was  still  lunching,  and  Paul  stretched  out  in  the  red 
leather  easy  chair  and  waited.  The  office  walls  were  a  mass  of 
framed  photographs,  all  autographed.  Everyone  who  had  ever 
been  in  pictures,  it  seemed,  had  wished  Lou  luck  at  one  time 
or  another,  and  had  sworn  undying  friendship.  Paul  found  his 
own  portrait — the  pose  where  he  held  the  pipe,  lowered  just 


out  of  the  mouth,  and  wore  the  open  sport  shirt.  It  had  been 
made  fifteen  years  ago,  when  Lou  was  just  starting  in  the 
business. 

Paul  turned  as  the  door  opened.  It  was  Lou,  and  on  his 
arm — Camille.  She  stopped  short  as  Paul  rose  stiffly  to  his 
feet.  "Why!  How — how  goes  it,  Paul?"  she  asked,  surprised. 
"I'll  wait  outside,  Lou,  as  long  as  you're  busy." 

Lou  shook  his  curly  head  vigorously.  "Wait  a  minute!" 
he  commanded.     "I  want  to  see  you  kiddies  together." 

Camille  laughed  lightly  and  seated  herself,  while  Lou  lit 
his  cigar.    Paul  studied  the  head  of  his  cane  casually. 

Lou  turned  to  Paul  and  leaned  on  his  desk.  "You  know  R-G-U 
is  going  to  make  'Ex-Convict,'  the  Broadway  play?"  he  asked. 

Paul  nodded. 

"Think  you  could  handle  the  father  part  in  it?"  he  asked 
sharply. 

Paul  could  not  conceal  a  sudden  start.  He  realized  it  would 
be  one  of  the  big  pictures  of  the  year.  "I — I  don't  see  why 
not,"  he  answered,  successfully  casual.  Then,  quickly:  "Of 
course,  I  might  have  to  gray  up  a  bit  for  it." 

"I'll  wait  outside,"  said  Camille  again,  rising  quickly. 

"/"""lAMILLE!"  Lou  called,  sharply.  "This  is  about  you, 
V-rftoo.     Would  you  like  that  mother  part?" 

"Why — why — naturally,"  she  said,  unevenly,  sinking  back 
in  her  chair.    "Can — can  I  get  it?" 

"It's  a  little  early  yet,"  Lou  was  terse,  "but  I've  been  sound- 
ing them  out." 

Paul  studied  the  cane  head.  "Ah!  And — er — their  re- 
actions?" he  asked  lightly. 

"Unfavorable!"  answered  Lou  sharply. 

Paul  arose  with  dignity.  "I  don't  get  the  gag,  Lou,"  he 
said  stiffly.     "Your  idea  of  comedy  is — " 

"Sit  down!  I'm  trying  to  help  you."  He  paused,  scowling 
at  Paul  like  a  lawyer  who  has  his  witness  cornered.  "I  want 
to  ask  you  something.  How  many  pictures  have  you  worked 
in,  during  the  past  four  years?" 

"Really,  Lou !"  began  Paul,  clearing  his  throat.  "I  don't  see — '* 

"Maybe  four,"  continued  Lou    [  please  turn  to  page  123  ] 


Ronald  Colman's  personal  choice  in  femmes  remains  a  mystery  but  his  screen  heart  must  be  blonde,  so  when  Fay 
Wray  was  chosen  for  him  in  "The  Unholy  Garden,"  she  got  out  the  peroxide  bottle  and  this  is  the  result.  Like  it? 
Judging  by  that  almost-smile  upon  the  cynical  Colman  lips,  Ronnie  does.     Three  guesses  what's  in  the  note  he's 

handing  her.    Only  the  scenario  writer  knows 


H 


Freed  from  that  "ole 
davil"  microphone, 
which  helped  to  shat- 
ter her  nerves,  Clara 
Bow  and  Rex  Bell, 
thebroad-shouldered 
cowboy  actor  who  is 
her  present  steady, 
are  photographed  as 
they  arrived  at  his 
broad-acred  ranch  at 
Nipton,  Calif. 


And  Clara,  going 
platinum  blonde 
while  recuperating, 
seems  to  like  the  idea 
of  having  someone  to 
cling  to  while  the 
question  of  her  future 
settles  itself.  Those 
slave  bracelets  on 
Rex's  right  and 
Clara's  left  arm  look 
rather  significant 


Where  Now,  Clara? 


Paramount  sadly  writes 
"finis"  to  the  little  Bow 
girl's  golden  days.  Can 
she  come  back  —  or  is 
it  curtains? 


TELL  mc,  wise  ones — do  they 
ever  come  back? 
Ask  old  Jim  Jeffries — ask 
Pola  Negri — ask  Trotsky  — 
ask  me,  and  I'll  shrug  my  shoulders. 
But  we've  got  to  know.  ' 

For  Clara  Bow,  since  1925  the 
idol  of  America's  jazz  babies,  has 
toppled  off  her  pedestal. 

In  the  fall,  her  slippers  came  off, 
and    there   were   the   feet  of  clay! 

Paramount,  after  stupendous  efforts  to  keep  her  on  the  wall 
of  public  favor,  decided  that  Clara  had  done  a  complete 
humpty-dumpty — settled  what  was  left  of  her  contract — 
allowed  Clara  to  go  into  the  desert  and  try  to  patch  and  caulk 
her  nervous  system. 

The  Bow  belle  has  had  a  bad  fall.  Can  all  Hollywood's 
horses  and  all  Hollywood's  men  put  poor  little  Clara  together 
again?  It's  the  one  question  that  now  agitates  the  ranks  of  the 
nation's  cinemaniacs. 

As  this  powerful  piece  is  tapped  off  on  my  palatial  estate  at 
Beverly-on-Harlem,  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  is  said  to  be  about 
to  take  on  the  job  of  gluing  up  the  pieces 
of  Clara  Bow.  p  J  ]     J  J      J  ]     and  the  company — kept  faith  right  up  to 

The  boys  are  said  to  figure  that  with      ■&  V     J—jCOTI  U  f  CI     J~Z  CI  1 1  [  please  turn  to  page  113  ] 

65 


proper  handling,  smart  casting  and 
a  lot  of  road  work,  the  Brooklyn 
Smudge  can  be  made  to  blaze  all 
over  again. 

It's  a  great  idea  and  a  laudable 
effort.    So  good  luck  all  round!    It 
maj'  be  that  Metro  knows  the  lucky 
numbers,  and  that  the  little  fire- 
brand who  made  old  fans  young  in 
'26  will  set  eyes  a-popping  in  '32. 
And  yet — there's  a  horrible  and 
understandable  suspicion  that  Clara's  present  debacle  isn't  a 
mere  skid  from  the  highway  of  public  favor,  but  a  headlong 
brodie  into  the  deep  ditch  whence  no  stars  return  in  full  glory. 
This  horrid  doubt  wouldn't  oppress  us  if  it  weren't  for  the 
fact  that  Paramount  did  everything  to  keep  her  going,  save  buy 
our  way  into  the  theaters  to  see  her  pictures. 
They  gave  Bow  every  break  and  every  chance. 
B.  P.  Schulberg,  Clara's  Paramount  sponsor,  fought  for  her, 
tooth  and  nail.    Through  bad  publicity  culminating  in  the  sad 
De  Yoe  mess,  through  a  sad  succession  of  boy-friends,  through 
a  welter  of  the  talkie  revolution,  Schulberg  stayed  in  there 
punching  on  Clara's  side.     Schulberg — 


THE  NATIONAL  GUIDE  TO   MOTION    PICTURES 


•A- 


ALEXANDER  HAMILTON— Warners 


AMAZING  man,  this  Arliss! — the  variety  of  his  charac- 
terizations is  something  to  marvel  at. 

Here  he  steps  back  into  the  sort  of  thing  that  made  "Dis- 
raeli" a  masterpiece — humanized  portrayal  of  an  historic 
figure.  And  here,  again,  Arliss  breathes  the  warmth  of  life 
into  a  cold  history-book  character;  makes  him  understand- 
able, likable,  sympathetic. 

It  is  the  tale  of  how  his  political  enemies  intrigued  Ham- 
ilton into  a  scandal.  And  of  how  Hamilton  sacrificed  his 
personal  happiness  rather  than  his  patriotic  principles. 
Splendidly  cast,  it  features  Doris  Kenyon  as  a  charming 
Betsy  Hamilton  and  lovely  June  Collver  as  a  woman  any 
man — even  Statesman  Hamilton — would  fall  for.  Here,  too, 
are  Washington  and  Jefferson,  interestingly  portrayed. 


-ft 


THE  MIRACLE  WOMAN— Columbia 


YOU  will  recognize  this  as  a  slightly  camouflaged  take-off 
on  a  well-known  female  evangelist  who  has  had  her 
name  in  the  papers  a  lot.  It's  boldly,  daringly  done.  With 
its  foundation  of  fact,  and  its  development  with  plenty  of 
melodramatic  license,  "The  Miracle  Woman"  is  a  thrill  pic- 
tsre  that  will  give  you  a  warm  evening's  entertainment. 

Barbara  Stanwyck,  as  Sister  Fallon,  scores  another  fine 
screen  characterization.  Opposite  her,  as  the  blinded  war 
aviator  who  comes  to  scoff  and  falls  in  love  with  her  instead, 
David  Manners  does  the  best  work  of  his  career,  in  an  un- 
usually difficult  role.  Sam  Hardy  and  Beryl  Mercer  are 
splendid.  The  picture  is  well  staged,  directed,  and  photo- 
graphed. The  final  thrill — the  burning  of  the  crowded  taber- 
nacle— is  a  fine  piece  of  film  realism. 

56 


(REG.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF.) 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

(B.S1Q.  D.3.  PAT-  OFF.)  M  J 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


* 


FORBIDDEN  ADVENTURE— Paramount 


HERE'S  one  for  the  kids  and  the  grownups,  too.  It  has 
that  same  spontaneity  and  youthful  elan  that  touched 
"Skippy"  with  magic  fingers,  as  well  as  an  underlying  ironic 
theme  you  won't  forget. 

Jackie  Searl  and  Mitzi  Green,  already  well  known  to  you, 
are  the  leads,  but  Bruce  Line,  a  new  kid,  completes  a  perfect 
juvenile  trio.  Edna  May  Oliver  (whose  haughty  sniff  is  as 
good  in  this  as  in  "Cimarron")  and  Louise  Fazenda  furnish 
the  adult  laughs. 

The  story — it  is  Sinclair  Lewis'  "Let's  Play  King"  con- 
siderably changed  for  picture  purposes — deals  with  two  child 
movie  stars  who,  tired  of  never  being  allowed  to  play  like 
other  youngsters,  run  away  with  a  boy  king  in  London. 

Norman  Taurog,  who  directed  "Skippy"  held  the  mega- 
phone on  this.  And  how  he  makes  those  kids  act!  Their 
technique  is  perfect  and  while  adult  actors  talk  about  correct 
tempo,  the  juveniles  pitch  in  and  actually  achieve  it. 

The  Hollywood  stuff  is  a  howl  and  take  it  from  one  who 
knows  movie  mamas,  it  is  not  entirely  burlesque.  You're 
admitted  right  into  the  inner  workings  of  a  movie  lot  and 
get  the  inside  on  how  movies  are  made.  Don't  miss  this 
entertaining  picture.    It's  an  evening  well  spent. 


SAVES    YOUR    PICTURE    TIME    AND    MONEY 


The  Best  Pictures  of  the  Month 

FORBIDDEN  ADVENTURE  NIGHT  NURSE 

ALEXANDER  HAMILTON    THE  MIRACLE  WOMAN 
AN  AMERICAN  TRAGEDY  THE  GIRL  HABIT 

LE  MILLION  THE  SQUAW  MAN 

The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 

Barbara  Stanwyck  in  "Night  Nurse" 

Joan  Blondell  in  "Night  Nurse" 

George  Arliss  in  "Alexander  Hamilton" 

Doris  Kenyon  in  "Alexander  Hamilton" 

Barbara  Stanwyck  in  "The  Miracle  Woman" 

David  Manners  in  "The  Miracle  Woman" 

Sam  Hardy  in  "The  Miracle  Woman" 

Phillips  Holmes  in  "An  American  Tragedy" 

Sylvia  Sidney  in  "An  American  Tragedy" 

Irving  Pichel  in  "An  American  Tragedy" 

Charles  Ruggles  in  "The  Girl  Habit" 

Bruce  Line  in  "Forbidden  Adventure" 

Jackie  Scarl  in  "Forbidden  Adventure" 

Mitzi  Green  in  "Forbidden  Adventure" 

Edna  May  Oliver  in  "Forbidden  Adventure" 

Louise  Fazenda  in  "Forbidden  Adventure" 

Warner  Baxter  in  "The  Squaw  Man" 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  reviewed  will  be  found  on  page  126 


* 


NIGHT  NURSE— Warners 


A  REPRESENTATIVE  from  another  studio  announced 
after  the  preview  of  this:  "Several  states  will  bar  it. 
They  won't  have  any  more  gangsters."  All  we've  got  to  say 
is:  we  feel  sorry  for  them.  The  states  will  be  the  losers.  You 
don't  get  entertainment  like  this  very  often. 

And  it  isn't  Barbara  Stanwyck,  Joan  Blondell,  Ben  Lyon 
or  Clark  Gable.  It's  the  combination  of  them  all,  plus  a  fine 
story,  splendid  direction,  humor,  novelty — oh,  what's  the 
use!    Drag  out  your  pet  adjectives,  go  see  this  and  use  'em. 

Yes,  Ben  Lyon's  a  bootlegger  who  knows  a  couple  of  fel- 
lows who  get  rid  of  other  bootleggers.  Which  means  "gang- 
ster," we  suppose,  even  though  he  only  has  them  bump  off 
real  villains.  Barbara's  a  nurse  who's  out  to  clean  up  un- 
ethical practices  of  unethical  physicians.  You  can't  help 
but  feel  bootleggers  are  preferable  to  doctors  who  help  kill 
tiny  children  for  money. 

There's  the  hospital  ward,  the  true  leveler  of  humanity, 
which  evokes  many  a  chuckle.  There's  the  ambulance  room 
which  gives  a  glimpse  into  the  pathos  and  the  humor  of 
emergency  treatments — and  a  too-short  glimpse  of  a  clever 
young  interne  played  by  that  funny  boy,  Eddie  Nugent. 
And  there's  a  whole  lot  more  worth  seeing! 


* 


AN  AMERICAN  TRAGEDY— Paramount 


IT  doesn't  matter  how  strictly  this  follows  the  book,  the 
meat  of  it  is  there.  Every  bit  of  the  cruel  tragedy  that 
Dreiser  wrote  into  his  story,  Von  Sternberg  has  poured  into 
the  picture.  You'll  probably  say  of  it :  "A  great  film — but  I 
don't  know  whether  I  like  it  or  not  ..." 

There  is  photographic  beauty  that  has  seldom  been  equalled. 
There  is  a  glorious  cast:  Phillips  Holmes,  Sylvia  Sidney, 
Frances  Dee,  Irving  Pichel,  Charles  Middleton — each  one 
of  whom  does  praiseworthy  work.  Directorially,  Yon  Stern- 
berg's wizardry  is  manifest  always.  In  the  suspense  of  the 
courtroom  sequence,  he  sets  new  standards.  "An  American 
Tragedy"  is  one  of  the  month's  best  pictures — artistically 
and  technically.  But  it  might  have  been  better  without 
Mr.  Dreiser's  interference. 


* 


THE  GIRL  HABIT— Paramount 


AN  uproarious  farce  that  not  only  boosts  Charlie  Ruggles 
to  stardom,  but  lets  him  squeeze  every  bit  out  of  a 
hilarious  part  cut  to  his  measure.  As  a  wealthy  young 
bachelor  who  has  a  great  facility  for  getting  himself  involved 
with  the  ladies,  Charlie  successively  gets  in  trouble  with  his 
fiancee,  his  intended  mother-in-law,  a  lady  blackmailer,  her 
gunman  husband,  the  police  and  the  jail  warden's  wife. 
Everything  in  the  way  of  hokum  is  in  it,  except  the  U.  S. 
Marines,  but  adroit  adapting,  skillful  directing  and  the  fine 
acting  of  the  entire  cast  lift  it  above  the  ordinary. 

Donald   Meek,   Sue   Conroy,    Margaret   Dumont,   Allen 
Jenkins,  Tamara   Geva,   Douglas  Gilmore,  Jerome  Daley 
and  Betty  Garde  splendidly  support  Ruggles. 
It's  all  laughs.    See  it! 

57 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List! 


* 


LE  MILLION 

—Tobis 

Soundfiltn 


* 


THE  SQUAW 

MAN— 

M-G-M 


YOU  don't  have  to  understand  French  to  get  all  the  fun  and 
flavor  out  of  this  French  musical  farce,  a  gorgeous  burlesque 
on  all  other  musical  farces,  but  adept  and  hilarious  in  its  own 
right.  Two  English-speaking  players  are  ingeniously  woven 
into  the  story  to  explain  the  action.  Please  bring  Rene  Clair, 
the  director,  to  America  to  teach  some  of  our  directors.  This 
should  open  their  eyes. 


THERE'S  everything  in  this  version  that  has  been  in  former 
ones,  only  it  is  more  plausibly  done.  Warner  Baxter  does  a 
magnificent  job.  Lupe  Velez,  with  scarcely  a  dozen  words  of 
dialogue,  holds  sympathy  every  second.  Eleanor  Boardman, 
Charles  Bickford  and  Raymond  Hatton  offer  excellent  sup- 
port. See  it,  no  matter  if  you  have  already  seen  it  on  the 
stage  or  silent  screen. 


REBOUND— 
RKO-Pathe 


THE  VIKING 
— Varick 
Frissell 
Production 


IN  A  CLAIRE  and  Robert  Ames  do  some  splendid  acting; 
the  production  is  well  directed  and  at  times  the  story  is 
funny,  but  somehow  it  just  misses  the  big  amusement  class. 
The  plot  is  a  bit  jumpy;  the  dialogue  hard  to  understand  in 
spots  and  the  change  of  situations  from  the  stage  play  bewil- 
dering and  not  an  improvement.  Nevertheless,  the  film  over- 
rides these  faults  and  is  worth  seeing. 


RE-TAKES  on  this  picture  cost  Varick  Frissell  and  twenty- 
five  others  their  lives  when  an  explosion  destroyed  their 
ship,  "The  Viking,"  off  the  coast  of  Labrador.  There  are  some 
amazing  shots  of  Arctic  sealing,  fascinating  adventures  on  that 
writhing  sea  of  ice,  some  grand  baby  seals  and  lots  of  other 
things  for  your  money.  But  the  attempt  at  story  hampers  the 
film  considerably. 


I  TAKE  THIS 

WOMAN— 

Paramount 


THE  MAN  IN 
POSSESSION 
—M-G-M 


THAT  wheezy  old  plot  about  the  pampered  society  darling 
who  falls  for  and  marries  the  rugged  cowhand  on  pappy's 
ranch  comes  alive  again.  But  not  very.  Gary  Cooper,  looking 
none  too  well,  and  Carole  Lombard,  miscast,  do  their  best. 
But  when  it's  all  o/er,  it's  just  another  movie.  You'll  get  a 
surprise,  though,  seeing  lovely  Carole's  beauty  sunk  as  the 
ranch  drudge-of-all-work. 

58 


HERE'S  another  fast  one  of  that  new  crop  of  naughty  com- 
edies, that  depends  for  its  lines  and  situations  upon  what 
happens  when  a  strange  young  man  and  a  strange  young  wom- 
an occupy  the  same  apartment  overnight.  Some  people  will 
laugh,  some  will  blush,  and  most  will  enjoy  it.  Robert  Mont- 
gomery does  delightfully  clever  work  in  his  second  starring  pic- 
ture.   Irene  Purcell  is  a  fascinating  trick. 


The   First   and    Best   Talkie    Reviews! 


THE  NIGHT 

ANGEL— 

Paramount 


SON  OF 
INDIA— 
M-G-M 


IF  this  sort  of  thing  keeps  up  Nancy  Carroll's  name  at  the  box- 
office  won't  be  worth  an  apple.  All  about  a  Czecho-Slovakian 
lass  (are  they  lassies  over  there?)  who  is  bad,  just  bad,  until 
the  noble  district  attorney  comes  along  and  helps  her  find  her- 
self. Fredric  March  is  the  hero  and  struggles  pitifully  with  the 
stupid  story.  But  it's  a  hard  day's  work  and  no  glory.  Allison 
Skipworth  is  splendid. 


IF  you  like  Romance  spelled  with  a  capital  R — the  kind  which 
overcomes  family,  race  and  religious  prejudices,  you  will  en- 
joy this.  The  story  is  a  nice  little  fairy  tale.  Ramon  Novarro 
has  never  been  more  handsome  or  love-inspiring.  He's  an 
Indian  who  drops  from  riches  to  rags  and  rises  to  riches  again. 
Madge  Evans  is  delightful  as  the  girl  who  believes  love  tran- 
scends all. 


FIVE  AND 

TEN— 

M-G-M 


THE 

COMMON 
LAW— 
RKO-Pathe 


THE  natural,  unaffected  acting  makes  this  interesting. 
Marion  Davies  goes  dramatic  in  splendid  fashion;  Leslie 
Howard  is  delightful  and  Irene  Rich,  Kent  Douglass  and  Rich- 
ard Bennett  score  also.  The  story  adheres  a  little  too  strictly 
'  to  the  Fannie  Hurst  novel  for  movie  purposes.  It  takes  in  so 
much  that  the  first  half  is  jerky.  The  heavy  drama  of  the  last 
half  is  better. 


KEEP  the  kiddies  away  from  this  sophisticated  yarn  where 
the  man  actually  decides  to  take  a  lady  of  easy  virtue  as 
his  wife.  Constance  Bennett  is  the  lady  and  she's  easy  to  look 
at,  too.  Such  clothes,  ladies!  Don't  miss  them.  Gentlemen 
won't  want  to  miss  the  little  beneath  them.  A  poor  adaptation 
of  Robert  Chambers'  best  seller.  Excellent  acting  by  Bennett, 
Joel  McCrea,  Hedda  Hopper  and  Lew  Cody. 


EX-BAD 

BOY— 

Universal 


CONFES- 
SIONS OF  A 
CO-ED— 

Paramount 


IF  you  like  gag-farce,  you'll  get  a  kick  out  of  this.  Adapted 
from  John  Emerson  and  Anita  Loos'  "The  Whole  Town's 
Talking."  It  deals  with  the  frantic  efforts  of  a  wealthy  father 
to  keep  his  daughter  from  marrying  the  gigolo  type.  Robert 
Armstrong,  boob  clerk,  is  substituted  for  the  gigolo  when 
daughter  (Jean  Arthur)  discovers  he's  had  a  supposed  affair 
with  a  movie  actress  (Lola  Lane).    Fine  comedy  acting. 


SYLVIA  SIDXEY  as  the  co-ed  who  marries  the  other  man 
in  desperation  because  her  true  lover  has  gone  away  at  a 
most  awkward  time.  For  three  years.  Hubby  Norman  Foster 
doesn't  know  the  baby's  not  his — then  Real  Lover  Phillips 
Holmes  comes  back.  Neither  very  convincing,  nor  very  good, 
although  there  are  excellent  moments.    College  atmosphere. 

[  ADDITIONAL  REVIEWS   ON  PAGE  103  ] 

69 


$5,000™  in  Prizes 


1      Seventy  cash  prizes  will  be  paid  by 
Photoplay  Magazine,  as  follows: 


First  Prize $1,000.00 

Second  Prize 750.00 

Third  Prize 500.00 

Fourth  Prize 300.00 

Fifth  Prize 200.00 

Twenty-five  Prizes  of  $50 

each 1,250.00 

Forty  Prizes  of  $25  each. .  1,000.00 


9  In  four  issues  (the  June,  July, 
August  and  September  numbers) 
Photoplay  Magazine  in  publishing 
puzzle  pictures  of  well-known  motion 
picture  actors  and  actresses.  Eight  com- 
plete puzzle  pictures  appear  in  each  issue. 
Each  puzzle  picture  will  consist  of  the 
lower  face  and  shoulders  of  one  player,  the 
nose  and  eyes  of  another,  and  the  upper 
face  of  a  third.  When  completed,  eight 
portraits  may  be  produced. '  $5,000.00  in 
prizes,  as  specified  in  rule  No.  1,  will  be 
paid  to  the  persons  sending  in  the  nearest 
correctly  named  and  most  neatly  ar- 
ranged set  of  thirty-two  portraits. 


"2  Do  not  submit  any  solutions  or 
answers  until  after  the  fourth  set  of 
puzzle  pictures  has  appeared  in  the  Sep- 
tember issue.  Completed  puzzle  pictures 
must  be  submitted  in  sets  of  thirty-two 
only.  Identifying  names  should  be 
written  or  typewritten  below  each  as- 
sembled portrait.  At  the  conclusion  of 
the  contest  all  pictures  should  be  sent 
to  PICTURE  PUZZLE  EDITORS, 
Photoplay  Magazine,  919  North 
Michigan  Avenue,  Chicago,  III.  Be  sure 
that  your  full  name  and  complete  address 
is  written  on,  or  attached  to,  your  entry; 
that  your  entry  is  securely  packed  to 
guard  against  damage  in  transit;  and 
that  it  carries  sufficient  postage  to  avoid 
delay. 


Read  the  Rules 
Carefully  Before 
Starting   Work 


A  Contestants  can  obtain  help  in 
solving  the  puzzle  pictures  by  care- 
fully studying  the  poems  appearing  be- 
low the  pictures  in  each  issue.  Each 
eight-line  verse  refers  to  the  two  sets  of 
puzzle  pictures  appearing  directly  above 
it.  The  six-line  verse  applies  generally  to 
the  four  sets  on  that  page.  Bear  in  mind 
that  it  costs  absolutely  nothing  to  enter 
this  contest.  Indeed,  the  contest  is  purely 
an  amusement.  You  do  not  need  to  be  a 
subscriber  or  reader  of  Photoplay  Mag- 
azine to  compete.  You  do  not  have  to 
buy  a  single  issue.  You  may  copy  or 
trace  the  pictures  from  the  originals  in 
Photoplay  Magazine  and  assemble  the 
pictures  from  the  copies.  Copies  of 
Photoplay  Magazine  may  be  examined 
at  the  New  York  and  Chicago  offices  of 
the  publication,  or  at  public  libraries,  free 
of  charge. 


C  Aside  from  accuracy  in  completing 
and  identifying  puzzle  pictures, 
neatness  and  originality  in  contestants' 
methods  of  submitting  solutions  will  be 
considered  in  awarding  prizes.  The  thirty- 
two  puzzle  pictures,  or  their  drawn  dupli- 
cates, when  completed,  must  have  the 
name  of  the  player  written  or  typewritten 
below. 


/£     The   judges    will   be   a   committee 

of  members  of  Photoplay 

Magazine's  staff.    Their  decision  will  be 

final.     No  relatives  or  members  of  the 

household  of  anyone  connected  with  this 


publication  can  submit  solutions.  Other- 
wise, the  contest  is  open  to  everyone 
everywhere. 


H     In  the  case  of  ties  for  any  of  the 
prizes  offered  the  full  amount  of 
the  prize  tied  for  will  be  given  to  each 
tying  contestant. 


Q  The  contest  will  close  at  midnight 
on  September  20th.  All  solutions 
received  from  the  time  the  fourth  set  of 
pictures  appears  to  the  moment  of  mid- 
night on  September  20th  will  be  con- 
sidered by  the  judges.  No  responsibility 
in  the  matter  of  mail  delays  or  losses  will 
rest  with  Photoplay  Magazine.  Send 
your  answers  as  soon  as  possible  after 
the  last  set  of  puzzle  pictures  appears 
in  the  September  issue,  which  will  be  for 
sale  on  the  newsstands  on  or  about 
August  15th.  The  prize  winners  will  be 
announced  in  the  January,  1932,  issue 
of  Photoplay. 


Q  Because  of  the  time  and  labor  re- 
quired to  re-pack  and  re-ship  thou- 
sands of  entries,  it  will  be  impossible  to 
return  any  of  them.  They  will  be  sent 
to  hospitals  and  orphanages  to  gladden 
the  hearts  of  sick  and  homeless  children. 


Q  .  Contestants  should 

Suggestions  study  the  poems  ap- 
pearing in  connection  with  the  puzzle 
pictures.  These  are  the  indicators  for 
identifying  the  contest  puzzle  pictures 
and  winning  prizes. 

It  is  suggested  that  contestants  merely 
pin  their  solutions  together  until  the  four 
sets  of  pictures  are  complete.  This  will 
permit  the  shifting  and  changing  about- 
of  pictures  as  the  contest  progresses — and 
will  give  time  for  lengthy  consideration 
and  study. 

Each  puzzle  picture  is  a  portrait  of  a 
well-known  motion  picture  actor  or 
actress. 


70  headers  ^AustxVin 


Follow  the  Arrows 


60 


HERE  is  Warners  contribution    to  the  Dietrich-Garbo  glamor  school. 
The  name  is  Lil  E>agover.    Do  the  legs  remind  you  of  Frau  Dietrich's? 
Lil  is  a  dramatic  star  from  Germany.    She  was  in  Hollywood  four  years  ago,  but 
didn't  make  a  picture.  She's  been  studying  English  and  has  now  joined  the 
studio  foreign  legion 


This  Way  to  Puzzles 


Turn  Over 


Photoplay  Magazine's   New  $5,000.00    Puzzle   Contest 


AWZ*r 


Upper  Upper 

The  hair  was  with  Wayburn,  a  dancer  was  she;  The  hair  in  the  stronghold  of  Mormons  was  born. 

The  eyes — despite  protest — eloped.  The  eyes  may  be  married  by  now, 

The  mouth  is  a  blonde,  but  of  Spanish  descent.  The  mouth's  a  New  Yorker,  she  went  there  to  school — 

By  Cupid  she's  never  been  roped.  And  in  "Cheri  Bibi"  she's  a  wow! 

Lower  Lower 

The  hair  had  a  part  in  a  Bessie  Love  hit,  The  hair  had  for  parents  a  vaudeville  team. 

The  eyes  had  a  short  stage  career.  The  eyes — wide  and  blue — came  from  Flushing; 

The  mouth  knew  applause  when  she  was  but  a  tot.  The  mouth  played  in  "Irene,"  and  "Yes,  Yes,  Yvette"- 

And  she  went  to  a  convent,  we  hear!  We  can  say  she  is  good,  without  blushing! 

RESUME 

Three  girls  are  quite  blonde,  and  all  four  have  light  eyes. 

In  the  talkies  they  seem  to  be  set. 

Three  came  from  the  stage,  and  one  right  from  school. 

And  each  might  be  called  a  safe  bet! 

Two  use  their  right  names,  and  two  of  them  do  not — 

And,  oh,  what  we'd  give  for  the  future  they've  got! 


Complete   Rules  for  Competition   Appear  on  Page  60 


Upper 
The  hair  came  from  England,  he  looks  the  part,  too — 
The  eyes  have  two  boys  and  a  girl 

The  mouth  played  in  stock  for  no  less  than  twelve  years. 
Then  he  gave  New  York  theaters  a  whirl! 

Lower 
The  hair  went  to  night  school,  he  learned  a  lot  there — 
The  eyes  got  his  learning  in  college. 
The  mouth  broke  our  hearts  in  a  play  of  the  war. 
He'd  the  greatest  war  role,  to  our  knowledge. 


RESUME 

Three  of  them  are  married,  and  one's  un-engaged. 
Just  one  of  the  four  has  dark  eyes 
And  two  are  old  timers,  as  screen  matters  go — 
And  two've  had  a  quite  recent  rise 
Two  of  them  have  children — and  (this  is  a  riddle') 
Two  come  from  a  state  that  is  high  in  the  middle 


Upper 
The  hair  was  a  part  of  an  orchestra,  once; 
The  eyes  have  a  girl  and  a  boy; 
The  mouth  is  in  pictures  just  over  three  years — 
And  his  work  has  brought  fame,  and  much  joy. 

Lower 
The  hair  plays  the  banjo,  also  the  guitar; 
The  eyes  are  quite  new  to  film  fame — 
The  mouth  wrote  short  stories  ere  he  was  a  star. 
And  the  London  stage  thrilled  to  his  name 


DOES  this  smart  young  woman  look  high  hat  to  you?  Mrs.  Joan  Crawford  Fairbanks 
is  not  the  same  girl  she  was  when  she  came  to  Hollywood.  The  colony  accuses  her 
of  being  ritzy.  On  the  opposite  page  you'll  find  a  story  that  tells  you  how  this  idea  grew. 
But  nothing  stops  Joan's  remarkable  journey  to  success 


Why    They    Said    Joan    Was 


u 


y 


"F  she  had  been  a  great  dra- 
matic star  on  Broadway  and 
had  come  to  Hollywood  with 

"a  blare  of  publicity  ballyhoo 
it  never  would  have  happened. 
Joan  Crawford  could  have  been 
herself — the  self  she  is  now — 
without  any  of  those  comments 
one  hears,  "Yes,  Joan  has  gone 
'high  hat.'  First  it  was  her 
marriage  to  young  Doug  that 
went  to  her  head  and  now  it's 
her  success  as  a  dramatic  actress. 
Who  does  she  think  she  is — 
Garbo  or  somebody?" 

But  Joan  came  to  Hollywood 
as  obscure  as  a  producer's  story 
idea.     She  was  plump,  gauche, 

shy  and  ill  at  ease.  Her  chorus  experience — the  only  theatrical 
training  she  had  had — served  only  to  give  her  a  hard  boiled 
veneer  and  an  easy  manner  that  was  not  her  own.  Joan  is  a 
Hollywood  product.  If  ever  a  girl  has  been  through  all  the 
phases  of  a  career  this  amazing  girl  has. 

I  have  now,  somewhere  in  my  desk,  funny  little  notes  from 
the  old  Joan  that  would  give  you  an  insight  into  the  Crawford 
who  was.  There  is  one  very  pitiful  one,  written  to  me  on 
Christmas  Eve,  on  the  back  of  an  envelope  and  sent  over  by 
a  prop  boy  from  her  set.  "Everybody  is  so  happy,"  Joan 
scribbled,  "I  feel  as  if  I'm  no  part  of  it.  What  makes  me  un- 
happy?   Why  can't  I  enter  into  the  fun  they're  all  having?" 

That  was  many,  many  years  ago. 

Strangely  enough,  Joan  told  me  the  superficial  things.  She 
wrote  the  things  that  were  near  her  heart.  She  seemed  to  feel 
some  need  of  expressing  herself  on  paper.  She  could  talk  by 
the  hour  of  her  newest  boy  friend,  of  her  financial  troubles,  of 
her  chance — maybe — at  a 
good  part,  but  her  struggles 
to  adjust  herself  to  life,  of 
the  keen  misery  that  was 
always  within  her,  even 
when  she  was  most  gay — 
these  things  she  wrote.  Just 
a  few  lines,  between  scenes 
or  in  her  dressing-room  or 
the  studio  commissary. 


SHE  met  life,  you  see,  un- 
equipped. Doyou  remem- 
ber her  when  she  was  Lucille 
Le  Sueur?  You  do  re- 
member, of  course,  all  the 
un-wanted  but  not  un- 
warranted publicity  she 
received  then.  Joan — the 
dancing  girl,  the  hey-hey 
Charleston  kid  who  haunted 
the  night  clubs  and  bore  from 
them  a  silver  dancing  cup  or 
a  sleek-haired  sheik  with 
equal  ease  and  with  just 
pride  in  the  winning  thereof. 
Joan  was  all  gayety  and 
life  and  movement — to  the 
outside.  She  had  no  small- 
est notion  of  self  contain- 
ment. If  you  asked  her  for 
an  autographed  picture  and 
had  known  her  for  only 
half  an  hour  she  would 
write  in  her  strong  girlish 
hand,  "To  the  sweetest, 
dearest  boy  in  the  world — 
With  all  my  love."     Now 


High  Hat 


55 


Here's  an  object  lesson 

from  real  life  that  should 

help  any  girl  struggling 

against  odds 

By  Katherine  Albert 


"The  Charleston  Champ"  of  Hollywood.     Joan 
and  some  of  the  cups  she  won  at  dancing  con- 
tests when  she  first  struck  Hollywood 


she  wishes  that  she  might  recall 
all  this  as  a  publisher  may  recall 
an  inaccurate  book. 

Joan  was  always  in  a  mess. 
Mike  Cudahy  —  a  handsome 
young  cad  who  danced  with 
Joan  and  called  her  endearing 
words  and  dragged  her  name, 
along  with  his  own,  over  the 
scandal  sections  of  the  news- 
papers. Jimmy  Hall — another 
youngster  who  called  her  con- 
stantly and  'squired  her  around 
to  all  the  smart  places.  The 
boys  on  the  set,  the  boys  she 
met  at  parties.  She  was  named 
as  co-respondent  in  a  couple  of 
divorces.  And  upon  both  oc- 
casions Joan  was  the  innocent  victim  of  those  endearing  and 
meaningless  scrawls  across  her  photographs.  One  of  the  men 
was  an  unprepossessing  set  musician  to  whom  she  had  given  a 
handsome  sweater  for  Christmas.  She  had  made  a  gift  to 
everybody  on   her  set. 

She  was  always  lavish  with  money.  In  those  days  she  was 
always  drawing  ahead  of  her  salary,  seldom  able  to  pay  her  bills 
and  yet,  when  she  was  in  the  most  desperate  financial  circum- 
stances, she  gave  an  elaborate  luncheon  party  at  the  then  smart 
Montmartre  for  twenty  girl  friends — to  celebrate  her  birthday. 

EVERYTHING  she  did  was  printed  in  the  papers.  Her 
quarrel  with  her  mother,  her  escapades  with  her  then  inti- 
mate friend  Shirley  Dorman,  her  romances.  Joan  was  not 
"taken  up  socially"  in  the  colony.  She  was  considered  a  little 
ex-chorus  girl  with  a  pair  of  swell  legs. 

And  yet — if  you  were  at  all  discerning  you  could  look  into 

those  great  eyes  and  know 
that  Joan  wanted  something 
more  of  life  than  she  was 
getting  in  a  Charleston 
contest.  But  who'd  believe 
her — who'd  believe  she  was 
anything  but  a  dumb,  crazy 
kid  who  got  herself  into  a 
lot  of  jams? 

But  there  was  one  person 
who  did  believe  her.  There 
was  one  eye  who  saw  the 
deep,  latent  powers  of  the 
girl,  the  fine,  uncultivated 
brain  she  had.  He  is  a 
little  man,  known  in  Holly- 
wood for  his  eccentricities 
and  his  unfailing  habit  of 
finding  miserable  glamorous 
women  to  help.  His  name 
is  Paul  Bern  and  he  was,  at 
the  time,  an  associate  pro- 
ducer at  M-G-M.  He  knew 
that  Joan  was  miserable 
and  he  began  the  awakening 
of  her  mind — a  task  that 
Doug  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  car- 
ried on  and  that  Joan,  her- 
self, is  completing.  With- 
out Paul — who  played  seem- 
ingly so  slight  a  part  and 
yet  such  a  truly  important 
one  in  her  life — Joan  would 
not  have  been  ready  for  the 
love  she  eventually  lavished 
upon  young  Doug. 

Paul  taught  her  things 
[please  turn  to  page  112] 

65 


T 


WO 


Lad 


1  e  s 


Wh 


o 


Una  began  her  film  career  as  one  of  those  starry-eyed  heroines, 
but  somebody  remembered  that  she  was  really  a  comedienne, 
so  instead  of  crying  with  her  you  can  laugh  at  her  now.  Praise  be ! 


THREE  rousing  cheers  and  a  couple  of  first  class  huzzahs! 
D.  W.  Griffith,  the  old  maestro,  has  been  cheated.  Oh, 
he  cast  a  wistful  eye  upon  the  gal  but  she  escaped  his 
saccharine  clutch.  The  world  has  lost  a  Gish.  But  boy, 
oh  boy,  it's  got  a  comedienne.  Which  is  what  this  country 
needs. 

In  case  you  hadn't  heard,  I'm  talking  about  Una  Merkel. 
And  to  show  you  just  what  Fate  can  hold  for  a  girl  with  blonde 
hair  and  blue  eyes — she  was  almost  a  dreamy  heroine,  pursued 
and  suffering.  (And  how  a  gal  who  looks  like  that  could  have 
suffered!) 

If  Una  had  happened  in  silent  film  days  nothing  would  have 
stopped  Griffith.     But  honestly,  a  woman  who  talks  like  the 

66 


Una  Merkel  was 
snatched  from  "Ole 
Massa"  Griffith  who 
thought  she  was  a 
second  Gish 

By    Jeanne   North 


Merkel  just  couldn't  be  a  Gish.  She  comes  from 
Covington,  Kentucky,  and  she  sounds  it.  Fancy 
her  saying  to  the  hero,  "Now  jus'  you  listen 
heah,  I  cahn't  go  on."  That's  how  Una  talks  and 
so  instead  of  a  wan,  pale  lily  of  a  woman,  we  have 
a  swell  laugh-getter  and  may  all  the  gods  of  the 
drama  be  praised. 

Here's  how  it  almost  happened.  Eight  years 
ago  Una  was  in  a  dramatic  school.  She  was  talL 
fair,  slim  as  a  willow,  with  hair  like  spun  gold  and 
eyes  blue  as  a  Mediterranean  sky.  One  day  a 
producer  came  to  the  school.  He  looked  at  Una. 
He  suddenly  remembered  that  he  was  going  to 
make  a  picture  starring  Lillian  Gish  and  he  cast 
her  immediately  in  the  prologue,  but  when  it 
came  time  for  shooting  she  was  given  another 
part  to  run  through  the  entire  picture  and  she 
was  also  assigned  to  be  Gish's  understudy.  That 
in  itself  is  enough  to  ruin  any  girl  who  looked  like 
Una  did  then.  The  Gish  influence  got  her — and 
got  her  right,  but  Fate  stepped  in  and  the  picture 
was  never  released. 


D! 


URING  the  days  while  they  were  working  it 
was  the  habit  of  D.  W.  Griffith  to  come  on  the 
set  and  watch  the  shooting.  He  watched  Una 
and  I  know  he  could  visualize  her  in  a  big  scene 
with  a  sleek,  moustached  villain.  But  something 
kept  him  from  his  deadly  purpose. 

In  the  due  course  of  time  and  tide  Una  grew  up 
and  went  on  the  stage.  There,  of  course,  she  was 
allowed  to  work  out  her  own  salvation  and  to  be 
the  comedienne  she  should  have  been,  but  again 
she  was  threatened.  She  happened  to  go  to  a 
studio  where  tests  of  some  of  the  Broadway  lights 
were  being  done.  And  who  should  be  making 
those  tests  but  D.  W.  Griffith?  Griffith  stopped 
right  in  the  middle  of  work  to  look  at  Una.  His 
eyes  lit  up. 

"Ah-ha,"  said  he  to  himself.    And  again,  "Ah- 

ha.    Why,  she'll  be  lovely  in  gauze  and  a  black 

eye."     So  he  asked  her  to  have  a  test.     There 

wasn't  much  time  so  Una  went  before  the  camera 

without  make-up.    But  she  took  the  test. 

After  that  she  went  back  to  the  stage  and  kept  on  being  a 
comedienne  until  there  came  a  telegram  from  United  Artists 
Studio  asking  her  to  come  West  at  once  and  play  Ann  Rutledge 
in  Griffith's  "Abraham  Lincoln." 

She  left  the  stage  and  arrived  in  Hollywood.  She  was  given 
a  contract.  She  worked  for  Griffith  and  the  studio  began 
making  still  pictures  of  her  with  maline  around  her  head  and  a 
soulful  look  in  her  eyes.  She  was  all  dewy  and  forgiving.  You 
know  the  type— the  Griffith  type.  When  they  talked  about 
her,  little  tears  trickled  down  cheeks.  She  was  going  Gish  and 
going  fast. 

It  didn't  help  any  when  she  was  [  please  turn  to  page  105  ] 


Make  You   Lau 


The  face  that  launched 
a  thousand  laughs  even 
if  Edna  May  Oliver  did 
come  from  Boston  to 
show  it 

By  Harry  Lang 


IT  took  Lon  Chaney  a  Thousand  Faces  to  be- 
come immortal.  It  takes  Edna  May  Oliver 
only  one— and  that's  her  own. 
Of  course,  you  know  Miss  Oliver.  The 
moment  you  looked  at  the  picture  that  accom- 
panies this  story,  you  recognized  her.  That 
face  .  .  .!  You  saw  it  in  "Cimarron,"  of  course, 
and  now  you're  going  to  see  it  starred  in  a  series 
of  other  Radio  Pictures,  the  first  of  which  will  be 
"Fannie  Foley  Herself" — all  in  Technicolor. 

But  there  may  be  a  lot  of  things  about  Edna 
Oliver — off-screen — that  you  don't  know  and 
would  like  to. 

You  probably  don't  know,  for  instance,  that 
off-screen  she's  almost  exactly  like  what  she  is 
on-screen!  That  inescapable  face  is  there — and 
Miss  Oliver  knows  it.     She's  gotten  used  to  it. 

Besides,  even  in  off-screen  conversation,  that 
nose-twisting  sniff  is  there,  too.  When  you  or  I 
might  emphasize  a  conversational  point  with  a 
wave  of  the  hand,  or  a  lift  of  the  eyebrow,  Edna 
May  Oliver  does  it  by  squeegeeing  her  nose  left- 
wards, lifting  the  left  side  of  her  lips  and  sniffing 
mightily.  You  know  the  gesture — you've  seen 
and  heard  it  on  the  screen.  It's  her  own  manner- 
ism.    And  she's  getting  afraid  of  it! 

"*\/"ES,  I  know  I  do  it  a  great  deal,"  she  says. 

X  "I  know  that  people  are  beginning  to  expect 
it  when  they  see  me  walk  into  a  scene.  But  I 
don't  want  them  to.  I'm  trying  to  get  away 
from  that  sniff.  It'll  be  fatal  if  I  don't.  When 
people  know  what  to  expect  from  you,  it's  fatal." 

So,  fans,  you  may  expect  to  bid  the  Oliver 
sniff  good-bye.  If  you  want  it  to  stay  on  the 
screen,   better  write  her! 

Edna  May  Oliver,  herself,  is  a  rather  tallish 
woman,  with  a  decidedly  comfortable  manner. 
She  lives  alone — save  for  a  devoted  maid  that's 
been  with  her  for  years — in  a  house  off  the 
beaten  track  in  Hollywood. 

It's  the  first  home  she's  ever  had  since  she  took 
to  acting — and  she's  more  than  revelling  in  it. 

She  was  born  in  Boston,  and  because  she  had  a  remarkable 
voice  as  a  child,  had  dreams  of  the  operatic  stage  as  a  career. 
Even  Edna  May  Oliver's  face  wouldn't  have  halted  that, 
because  opera  is  opera.  But  it  was  halted,  nevertheless,  by 
economic  circumstances.  After  getting  a  fair  start  in  open  air 
opera  in  New  England,  financial  reverses  scrapped  her  plans 
for  voice  study  in  Europe  and  forced  her  to  join  up  with  a 
dramatic  stock  company  in  Boston.     Good-bye  opera! 

Because,  good  singer  though  she  was,  she  proved  a  better 
actress.  And  so  it  came  about  that  there  ensued  a  series  of 
stage  successes  that  lifted  her  from  the  obscurity  of  Boston 
stock  to  the  eminence  of  New  York's  comedy  favorite.  "Cradle 
Snatchers"  and  "Show  Boat,"  perhaps,  were  her  two  out- 


One  guess.  Who  is  this  here  lady  above?  She  earns  a  pretty 
penny  for  sniffing  at  folks  and  there's  no  better  sniffer  in 
Hollywood,  where  in  private  life  there  are  some  champion  sniffers 


standing  hits  on  the  stage.  For  three  solid  years  she  bossed  the 
"Show  Boat"  as  Parthy  Ann  Hawks.     Ever  see  her? 

And  that  brings  us  to  pictures.  Naturally,  with  talkies 
raiding  the  audible  stage,  Edna  May  Oliver  got  her  share  of 
attention.  In  Chicago,  one  day,  she  got  a  wire  from  William 
LeBaron,  Radio  Pictures'  head. 

"How  much  will  you  take  to  sign  with  Radio?"  it  asked,  in 
effect. 

"So  I  wired  back  what  I  wanted,  and  LeBaron  wired  back 
'nothing  doing!'  "  she  narrated.  So  she  stayed  on  the  stage 
some  more. 

A  long  time  later,  he  wired  again.  This  time  her  figure  was 
different.     And  LeBaron  wired      [  please  turn  to  page  104  ] 

67 


YOU'VE  never  seen  Dolores  look  better,  have  you?  She  is 
completely  recovered  from  her  recent  illness,  very  much  in 
love  with  her  husband,  signed  on  a  long  term  contract  and  there's 
no  place  for  a  jinx  in  the  gorgeous  modernistic  home  that  Cedric 
Gibbons  designed  for  his  bride 


68 


Dolores  vs.  th 


mx 


INTO  the  years  of  the  brief  life  of 
Dolores  Del  Rio  there  have  been 
crowded  the  glamour  and  drama, 
the  madness  and  tragedy,  the 
emotion  and  fire  of  a  hundred  glitter- 
ing women. 

The  sensational  high  points  of  her 
life  have  leaped  out  at  you  from  a 
thousand  newspapers.  She  has  been 
accused  of: 

Breaking  her  husband's  heart,  there- 
by causing  his  death. 

Being  responsible  for  the  divorce  of 
Edwin  Carewe  and  his  wife,  Mary  Akin. 

Providing  the  incentive  for  a  duel  between  Carewe  and  her 
husband,  Jaime  Del  Rio,  which  was  never  fought. 

Sending  Lila  Lee  to  a  sanatorium  because  she  won  the  heart 
of  her  sweetheart. 

Poisoning  a  wife's  mind  against  her  husband  and  thereby 
causing  a  separation.  (Attorney  Gunther  R.  Lessing  and  wife.) 

Being  unkind  and  ungracious  to  her  fellow  countrywoman, 
Lupc  Velez. 

So  devastatingly  fascinating  Cedric  Gibbons  that  he  neglect- 
ed his  most  loyal  and  dependable  friend,  Aileen  Pringle. 

And  every  charge  one  hundred  per  cent  wrong! 

These  are  but  some  of  the  charges  made  against  Dolores  Del 
Rio,  whose  fantastic  career  has  been  woven  into  the  pattern  of 
Hollywood. 

Several  months  ago  she  was  through  in  Hollywood.  And 
this  occurred  at  a  dramatic  moment,  as  everything  has 
occurred  to  her,  just  after  her  gay  wedding  to  Cedric  Gibbons. 
There  were  three  staccato  events.    She  married  Cedric  Gibbons. 


Tragedy  played  the 
leading  role  in  Del 
Rio's  life,  but  Dolores 
does  the  starring  now 


By  Katherine  Albert 


A  few  weeks  later  she  became  seriously 
ill.  One  month  and  three  days  after 
that  she  was  without  the  famous 
United  Artists  contract  that  had 
brought  her  S9,000  a  week  while  she 
was  working.  Her  picture,  "The 
Dove,"  was  scheduled  to  start  before 
she  became  ill.  And  it  was  on  the  eve 
of  the  shooting  that  doctors  told  her 
to  remain  in  bed. 

There  was  a  clause  in  her  contract 

which  provided  that  if  she  should  be 

away  from  the  studio  for  one  month 

for  whatever  cause  at  all,  the  contract 

was  automatically  null.    They  gave  her  three  extra  days.    One 

month  and  three  Jays — and  she  had  no  more  contract  than  a 

bearded  lady  has  sex  appeal. 

The  time  dragged  on.  Dolores  was  through — washed  up — 
finished.  She  was  also  ill,  disheartened,  discouraged.  Gay 
parties  were  given — but  she  was  not  among  the  group.  Oc- 
casionally someone  asked,  "What's  happened  to  Dolores  Del 
Rio."  And  someone  suddenly  remembered,  "Oh,  she's  ill." 
And  the  usual  line  followed,  "I  think  she's  pretty  well  washed 
up  in  pictures." 

A  few  weeks  ago  came  the  announcement  that  Dolores  Del 
Rio  had  signed  a  long-term  contract  with  Radio  Pictures 
and  that  her  first  film  will  be  the  ill-fated  picture,  "The  Dove." 
Now  the  inside  newshounds  were  ready  to  peddle  their 
vicarious  information.  Rubbing  their  hands  in  glee,  they 
announced  that  United  Artists  and  Sam  Goldwyn  were  de- 
lighted with  the  deal.  In  one  lucky  stroke  they  had  rid  them- 
selves of  a  star  whose  last  picture,  [  please  turn  to  page  102  ] 


A  detailed  view  of  the  second  floor  living  room  in  the  Del  Rio-Gibbons  modernistic  mansion. 

That  bookcase  upon  which  Dolores  is  reclining  is  a  davenport  in  disguise  and  what  looks  like  a 

counter  in  the  foreground  is  the  rail  of  a  secret  stairway  leading  to  the  boudoir.    Tricky? 


69 


Story  Con  test  Judging  Begins 


THE  appearance  of  this  issue 
of  Photoplay  marks  the 
close  of  the  Photoplay- 
Warner  Bros,  contest  for 
picture  story  ideas  to  fit  the  title 
of  "  Beauty  and  the  Boss,"  as  well 
as  the  deadline  for  all  manuscripts 
competing  for  the  $2,000  prizes 
offered. 

As  specified  in  the  rules,  mid- 
night of  July  15  was  the  closing  hour  of  the  contest.    All  manu- 
scripts received  at  the  office  of  Photoplay  after  that  time  will 
not  be  considered.    The  competition  is  over. 

What  remains  now  is  the  vastly  important  task  of  judging  the 
thousands  of  stories  that  have  been  received  since  the  contest 
opened  on  May  15,  and  finding  the  winner,  or  winners,  of  the 
$2,000  checks  offered. 

This  is  a  gigantic  task,  for  the  response  to  this  opportunity  by 
amateur  picture  story  writers  assumed  unexpected  proportions. 
Stories  came  in  from  all  over  the  country,  and  from  European 
countries  as  well.  We  received  manuscripts  written  in  French, 
German  and  Spanish,  and  while  most  of  the  writers  fashioned 
their  stories  around  the  suggested  title  of  "Beauty  and  the 
Boss,"  there  were  hundreds  with  other  titles  that  covered  a 
wide  variety  of  situations  and  settings. 

Despite  the  great  number  of  stories  that  were  submitted,  the 
greatest  care  will  be  exercised  in  reading  and  judging  them. 
Every  manuscript  entered  in  the  contest  will  be  given  a  careful 
and  thorough  reading.  Contestants  are  assured  that  their 
stories  will  be  read  from  beginning  to  end — every  one  of  them. 

Because  of  the  time  and  consideration  that  will  be  given  to 
the  reading  and  judging  of  the  stories,  the  announcement  of  the 
winners  may  be  delayed  for  a  month  or  more.  Accordingly,  we 
ask  all  those  who  have  sent  stories  to  be  patient.  Every  effort 
will  be  made  to  announce  the  winners  as  soon  as  possible,  but 
the  judging  will  not  be  completed  until  every  story  has  been 
carefully  read. 

70 


Thousands  of  stories,  sub- 
mitted  for  $2,000  prize, 
being  read  by  judges,  who 
will  name  winners  soon 


While  awaiting  the  decision  of 
the  judges,  we  ask  those  who  have 
submitted  stories  not  to  write  in 
to  ask  what  decision  has  been  made 
about  their  individual  manu- 
scripts.     Future   announcements 
will  tell  you  all  this.    Every  pos- 
sible  amount   of   speed   will   be 
utilized  in  completing  this  huge 
task  and  to  tell  you  what  you  are 
anxious  to  know  as  soon  as  possible,  but  the  judges  cannot 
undertake  to  engage  in  correspondence  with  those  who  have 
sent  in  stories. 

If  your  story  fails  to  win  one  of  the  prizes,  Photoplay  cannot 
return  it.  You  probably  know  this  because  it  was  plainly  set 
forth  in  the  rules  of  the  contest  every  month.  There  are  far  too 
many  stories  to  make  such  an  undertaking  practicable,  much  as 
we  would  like  to  do  it. 

THE  rights  to  these  unsuccessful  stories,  however,  still  belong 
to  their  authors.  A  great  many  writers,  confused  on  this 
point,  have  written  in  to  ask  if  Warner  Bros,  still  have  the 
rights  to  their  stories  even  though  they  don't  win  a  prize. 

All  stories  accepted  by  Warner  Bros,  will  be  paid  for  at  the 
rate  of  $2,000  each. 

The  rights  to  the  unsuccessful  manuscripts  will  automatically 
revert  back  to  their  authors  as  soon  as  the  announcement  of 
the  winners  is  made. 

In  the  judging  of  the  manuscripts  no  one  but  the  judges  and 
those  assisting  them  will  read  the  stories.  Every  story  will  be 
read  and  judged  on  its  merits,  and  the  decision  of  the  judges 
will  be  final. 

And  now,  we  ask  you  again  to  be  patient  until  the  announce- 
ment of  the  winners  is  made. 

Photoplay  appreciates  that  you  are  anxious  to  know  if  your 
story  was  successful,  and  will  make  every  effort  to  give  you  the 
answer  quickly. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


OSLOC    C4 


d    zA^c 


nxM/    us 


a£cJuif(rrd 


7' 


» 


BRIDE   OF  A   GRANDSON   OF  THE   LATE   MR.    AND    MRS.    POTTER   PALMER  ...  THE   FORMER   SEftORITA   EUGENIA   MARTINEZ   DE   HOZ 

snyi-  MM  POTTER  D'ORSJK  PALMER 


A  SPANISH  BLONDE!  Velasquez 
would  have  thrilled  to  paint  her  .  .  .  im- 
agine the  exotic  charm  of  clear  pale  olive 
skin  with  golden  hair  and  amber  eyes  . . . 
She  is  the  captivating  young  bride  of 
a  grandson  of  the  late  Potter  Palmer, 
famous  in  Chicago  history  .  .  .  and  her 
elegant  distinction  recalls  that  of  the 
celebrated  Mrs.  Potter  Palmer,  who 
ruled  as  arbiter  of  Chicago  society  some 
two  generations  ago. 

Fresh  from  Paris  on  her  recent  first 
visit  to  America,  with  trunks  and  trunks 
full  of  chic  frocks  and  hats,  and  all  the 
rest  of  a  trousseau  in  the  grand  manner, 
Mrs.  Palmer  talked  of  fashions,  of  beauty 
care  in  France. 

She  summed  it  up  in  one  vivid  phrase. 
"Elegance,"  she  said,  "is  the  new  watch- 
word .  More  than  ever,  women  are  groomed 
with  fastidious  attention  to  detail." 

"But  your  wonderful  skin?"  we  asked. 
"How  do  you  ever  keep  it  so  smooth 
and  fine  of  texture  ?  " 


POND  S    EASY    WAY   TO   A    LOVELY    SKIN 

"Daily  treatment!"  replied  Mrs.  Palmer, 
with  her  flashing  smile.  "Yes,  that's  all- 
important,  but  it's  really  very  simple  .  .  . 
for  Pond's  four  preparations  are  all  one 
needs  to  keep  one's  complexion  exquisite." 

Follow  the  four  steps  of  Pond's  Method: 
1 — Amply  apply  Pond's  Cold  Cream  for  pore- 
deep  cleansing,  several  times  daily,  always  after 
exposure.  Let  the  fine  oils  sink  into  the  pores 
and  float  all  the  dirt  to  the  surface.    At  bed- 


time, repeat  this  all-important  cleansing  to 
remove  the  day's  accumulation  of  grime. 

2 — Wipe  away  with  Pond's  CleansingTissues, 
softer,  more  absorbent.  White  or  peach  color. 

3 — Pat  cleansed  skin  briskly  with  Pond's  Skin 
Freshener  to  brace  and  tone,  banish  oiliness, 
close  and  reduce  enlarged  pores. 

4 — Always  before  you  powder,  smooth  on 
Pond's  Vanishing  Cream  to  make  the  pow- 
der go  on  more  evenly  and  last  longer.  This 
disguises  any  little  blemishes  in  your  skin 
and  forms  a  wonderful  protection  from  sun- 
burn. Use  this  exquisite  Vanishing  Cream 
not  only  on  your  face  but  wherever  you  pow- 
der— neck,  shoulders,  arms.  And  it  is  mar- 
velous to  keep  your  hands  soft  and  white ! 

Tune  in  on  Pond's  Friday  evenings  9.30  P.M . 
F.D.S.T.  Leo  Reisman  and  his  Orchestra. 
WEAF  and  N.B.C.  Network. 

Send  10ff  for  Pond's  4  Preparations 
pond's  extract  company,  Dept.  V 

114  Hudson  Street New  York  City 


Name- 


Addre-ss- 
City 


StAte- 


i'«Mti«hl,  19.11 .  Pood'a  Extrart  C.mMnr 


72 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


NAZIMOVA 


w 


am 


NAZIMOVA 

Who  would  guess  looking  at  these 
recent   photographs  that  she  is  over 
40 !  More  fascinating  than  ever  she 
seems,  this  star  who  won  early  stage 
fame  in  The  Doll's  House,  became 
a  favorite  of  the  screen  in  such  hits  as 
Salome,  and  returned  to  the  stage 
recently  in  The  Cherry  Orchard. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


73 


SAYS. 


over  40  years  old  ! 


// 


Famous  stage  and  screen  star  declares 
years  need  not  rob  you  of  Youth 


o 


NLY  the  woman  who  looks  it 
is  afraid  to  admit  her  age," 
says  Nazimova.  "But  I  am  proud  of 
mine — look  at  me — I  am  over  forty! 

"It  is  easy  to  be  lovely  at  sixteen, 
but  to  be  still  lovelier  at  forty  .  .  . 
well,  that  is  easy,  too,  if  a  woman  is 
wise !  Actresses  rarely  look  their  age, 
you  notice.  Like  me,  they  guard  their 
complexions  with  Lux  Toilet  Soap. 

"It  is  a  marvel,  that  soap.  For 
years  I  have  been  faithful  to  it — and 
my  skin  is  so  soft,  so  smooth.  A 
woman's  age  is  not  the  measure  of 
her  charm — oh,  no." 

Nazimova  is  only  one  of  countless, 
perpetually  youthful  stage  and 
screen  stars  who  use  Lux  Toilet 
Soap  to  guard  complexion  beauty. 

In  Hollywood,  actually  605  of  the 
613  important  screen  actresses  use 
this  fragrant  white  soap  regularly. 


Well  does  the  beautiful  Nazimova  know  how  un- 
important birthdays  can  be.  She  says:  "A  woman's 
age  is  not  the  measure  of  her  charm — oh,  no." 


LuxToilet  Soap-ICK 


OTEi 


The  Photoplay  Gold 

Medal  balloting  is  on! 
Send  yours   in — now! 


VOTE  now  for  the  best  picture  of  1930. 
As  a  true  lover  of  motion  pictures,  and  as  one  interested  in  their  continued 
improvement,  it  is  your  duty,  as  well  as  pleasant  privilege,  to  help  award  the 
Photoplay  Medal  of  Honor,  which  is  the  highest  and  most  coveted  of  all 
motion  picture  awards. 

This  is  the  eleventh  time  this  notable  prize  will  be  awarded,  and  a  distinguished 
tradition  has  been  built  up  behind  it.  The  ten  previous  winners  were  worthy  recipients 
of  the  Medal,  and  we  want  every  member  of  the  great  motion  picture  public  to  take 
part  in  selecting  a  picture  that  will  take  its  place  beside  the  honored  films  of  the  past. 
A  list  of  previous  winners  will  be  found  printed  on  this  page. 

Like  moving  pictures  themselves,  the  Photoplay  Medal  of  Honor  has  grown  in 
importance,  until  today  it  is  the  highest  award  in  the  industry.  It  has  come  to  be  a 
milestone  along  the  road  of  motion  picture  progress,  and  from  the  time  of  the  first 
award  to  "Humoresque,"  in  1920,  it  has  encouraged  fine  achievements  on  the  screen. 
Last  year  marked  the  first  time  that  this  honor  was  bestowed  on  a  talking  picture. 
It  was  awarded  to  "Disraeli."  Since  then  the  motion  picture  screen  has  become  prac- 
tically all  talkie,  and  your  vote  in  awarding  the  medal  this  year  will  also  be  a  stamp  of 
approval  on  the  advancement  made  in  this  new  field  of  screen  endeavor. 

IN  voting,  strive  to  leave  personalities  out  of  your  consideration.  Consider  not  only 
the  acting,  but  the  story,  the  direction,  and  the  spirit  behind  the  making  of  the  film.  By 
considering  every  phase  of  a  picture,  you  give  the  producer  your  answer  to  his  efforts. 

For  your  convenience,  you  will  find  a  ballot  printed  on  this  page.  In  addition,  you 
will  find  a  list  of  fifty  pictures  released  during  1930  to  help  you  in  making  your  selec- 
tions. You  are  not,  of  course,  limited  to  voting  for  a  picture  on  this  list.  Vote  for  any 
picture  of  1930  that  you  feel  is  entitled  to  the  award. 

The  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  of  Honor  is  of  solid  gold,  weighing  MV/2  pennyweights, 
and  is  two  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter.  Each  medal  is  made  and  designed  by  Tiffany 
and  Company,  of  New  York.    You  will  find  a  reproduction  of  it  also  printed  on  this  page. 

Remember  that  Photoplay's  award  is  made  on  your  choice.  It  will  help  to  en- 
courage the  making  of  better  pictures  for  you.  You  can  do  that  by  filling  out  the  bal- 
lot and  mailing  it  to  us — now. 


Winners  of 
Photoplay  Medal 

1920 

"Humoresque" 

1921 

"Tol'able  David" 

1922 

"Robin  Hood" 

1923 

'The  Covered  Wagon" 

1924 
"Abraham  Lincoln" 

1925 

"The  Big  Parade" 

1926 

"Beau  Geste" 

1927 
"7th  Heaven" 

1928 
"Four  Sons" 

1929 
"Disraeli" 


Photoplay  Medal  of  Honor  Ballot 

Editor  Photoplay  Magaiine 

221  W.  57th  Street,  New  York  City 

In  my  opinion  the  picture  named  below  is  the 
best  motion  picture  production  released  in  1930. 


NAME  OF  PICTURE 


J^ame. 


Address- 


Fifty  Pictures  Released  in  1930 


Abraham  Lincoln 

All  Quiet  on  the  Western 

Front 
Animal  Crackers 
Anna  Christie 
Big  House,  The 
Big  Trail,  The 
Case  of  Sergeant  Grischa, 

The 
Caught  Short 
Check  and  Double  Check 
Common  Clay 
Dawn  Patrol,  The 
Devil  May  Care 
Devil's  Holiday,  The 
Divorcee,  The 
Doorway  to  Hell,  The 
Feet  First 


Free  and  Easy 

General  Crack 

Green  Goddess,  The 

Grumpy 

Hell's  Angels 

Holiday 

Journey's  End 

King  of  Jazz 

Ladies  of  Leisure 

Laughter 

Let  Us  Be  Gay 

Lummox 

Manslaughter 

Men  Without  Women 

Min  and  Bill 

Moby  Dick 

Monte  Carlo 

Office  Wife,  The 


Old  English 

Outward  Bound 

Rogue  Song,  The 

Romance 

Sarah  and  Son 

Seven  Days'  Leave 

Song  0'  My  Heart 

So  This  Is  London 

Street  of  Chance 

Tom  Sawyer 

Unholy  Three,  The 

Vagabond  King,  The 

White  Hell  of  Pitz  Palu 

Whoopee 

With   Byrd   at   the   South 

Pole 
Young  Man  of  Manhattan 


n 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


75 


COLGATE'S 


toothpaste  has  healthfully  and 
completely  cleansed  more  people's  teeth 
than  any  other  toothpaste  the  world  has 
ever  known. 

COLGATE'S  has  been  more  universally  recom- 
mended by  dentists  through  the  years  than 
any  other  dentifrice  ever  made. 

COLGATE'S  now — climaxing  30  years  of  leadership 
—has  been  accepted  by  the  American  Dental 
Association,  Council  on  Dental  Therapeutics. 
The  seal  signifies  that  the  composition  of  the 
product  has  been  submitted  to  the  Council 
and  that  the  claims  have  been  found  accept- 
able to  the  Council. 

COLGATE'S  sells  for  25  cents  because  more  people 
use  it  than  any  other  make.  The  price  is  im- 
JP^  ■■  portant — but  the  quality,  not  the  price,  has 

^B^^  held  Colgate  leadership  for  30  years. 


/ 


See  if  the  seal  of  acceptance 
is  on  the  toothpaste  you  buy 


4P 


"From  the  Manger  to  the  Cross,"  made  by  the 
old  Kalem  Company  in  1912,  won  world-wide 
fame  for  R.  Henderson  Bland,  a  young  English 
actor,  for  his  portrayal  of  Christ.  It  was  made  in 
Palestine  and  was  directed  by  Sidney  Olcott 


:*♦ 

5 

A  recent  portrait  of  Capt.  Henderson  Bland.  The 
deeds  of  a  warrior  he  performed  in  the  British 
army  from  1914  to  1918  are  a  far  cry  from  his 
sympathetic  portrayal  of  the  gentle  Man  of 
Galilee  just  a  few  years  before 


Back  After  17  Years 


BROADCASTING  over  the  radio  now,  and  soon  to  be  on  his 
way  to  Hollywood,  is  a  remarkable  personality  who  has 
played  many  roles  in  life,  roles  as  far  apart  and  as  contrast- 
ing in  dramatic  lights  and  shadows  as  are  day  and  night. 

Poet,  actor,  playwright,  journalist,  art  critic,  champion 
swordsman,  soldier,  radio  speaker,  director  of  the  Poets'  Club 
of  London,  representative  of  the  Ypres  League  in  America,  he 
has  crowded  into  his  two  score  years  the  activities  and  energies 
of  ten  average  men. 

He  has  made  arrangements  to  appear  in  one  picture  and  if  he 
likes  the  work,  and,  he  adds,  if  the  work  likes  him,  he  may  con- 
tinue on  as  a  picture  actor. 

HE  is  a  picture  pioneer.  Away  back  in  1912  he  played  the 
role  of  Christ  in  Sidney  Olcott's  (then  epic)  production  of 
"  From  the  Manger  to  the  Cross."  Of  his  work  in  that  picture, 
which  was  shown  all  over  the  civilized  world  and  is  still  being 
shown,  the  famous  Dean  of  St.  Paul's  Church  of  London,  the 
Rev.  William  Inge,  said:  "Nothing,  not  even  the  Passion  Play 
of  Oberammergau,  brought  home  to  my  mind  the  realities  of 
the  life  and  work  of  Jesus  as  did  Mr.  Henderson  Bland's 
picture."  So  it  must  have  been  good,  for  Dean  Inge  is  not  us- 
ually so  enthusiastic. 

Yet  two  years  later  the  man  who  enacted  the  role  of  the 
Christus  with  such  feeling  that  it  evoked  this  high  praise  from  a 
famous  churchman,  went  into  the  bloody  work  of  the  most 
terrible  massacres  the  world  has  ever  known,  with  all  that  was 

76 


in  him.  He  wrote  a  poem  on  the  Sea  of  Galilee  which  is  a  thing 
of  great  spiritual  and  reverential  beauty.  And  a  few  years 
later,  on  the  battlefield  of  Festubert,  he  wrote  one  of  the  finest 
poems  inspired  by  the  war,  one  that  has  made  that  field  of 
carnage  and  death  a  hallowed  spot. 

He  was  a  captain  in  a  famous  regiment  that  has  to  its  credit 
more  battle  flags  than  any  regiment  which  engaged  in  the 
World  War.  It  was  part  of  the  Fifth  British  Army  that  was  so 
thoroughly  decimated  in  the  fierce  fighting  of  the  first  two  years 
when  the  British  were  throwing  every  ounce  of  their  strength 
into  the  struggle  to  keep  the  Germans  from  capturing  the  rail- 
heads and  Channel  ports.  Of  his  own  original  company  of  two 
hundred  men,  twelve  men  survived. 

HE  received  his  early  dramatic  training  as  a  youthful  mem- 
ber of  Sir  Herbert  Tree's  company,  and  it  was  while  he  was 
playing  there  that  Sidney  Olcott,  the  director,  chose  him  as  the 
man  he  wanted  to  play  the  central  role  of  his  picture  of  the  life 
of  Christ.  Strangely  enough,  it  was  while  he  was  making  this 
film  that  he  had  his  first  taste  of  fighting.  The  distrustful 
natives  waylaid  the  picture  company  and  they  had  to  fight 
their  way  to  safety. 

Henderson  Bland  is  six  feet,  one,  and  has  much  of  the  quiet 
British  personality  that  made  Percy  Marmont  such  a  favorite 
until,  financially  secure  in  life,  Mr.  Marmont  decided  to  retire 
to  the  life  of  an  English  gentleman  on  his  modest  estate  in 
Surrey. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


77 


It's  time  you  knew  the  truth 

about  soaps  you  use 
on  your  face 


Palmolive  tells  you,  willingly  .  •  •  it  is  made  of  olive 
and  palm  oils  —  no  other  fats  whatsoever! 


YOUR  complexion  is  priceless.  Don't 
expect  it  to  remain  lovely  if  you 
abuse  it  with  wrong  soaps. 

What  are  wrong  soaps?  Find  out  for 
yourself  by  asking  what  soaps  are  made 
of.  Demand  to  be  told. 

Some  soaps,  mild  in  appearance,  may 
roughen  and  irritate  the  skin.  They 
cleanse,  perhaps  —  but  at  what  price? 

Do  such  soaps  tell  you  they  are  made 
of  cosmetic  oils?  No!  Vegetable  oils? 
No !  Olive  and  palm  oils?  No !  Few  soaps 
tell  you  what  they  are  made  of.  Palm- 
olive  does. 

Palmolive  has  no  secret 

Palmolive  is  made  of  olive  and  palm 
oils: — no  other  fats  whatever.  No  arti- 
ficial coloring.   No  heavy  fragrance  to 


mask  other  odors.  It  is  a  pure  soap — as 
pure  and  wholesome  as  the  complexions 
it  fosters.  So  pure,  in  fact,  that  more  than 
20,000  beauty  experts  the  world  over 
have  united  to  recommend  it. 

Nothing  else  like  olive  and  palm  oils 

What  these  experts  prize  in  Palmolive 
is  the  skin  effects  no  ordinary  soap  can 
ever  bring.  Nothing  in  all  ages  has  com- 
pared with  a  blend  of  olive  and  palm  oils 
for  skin  care. 

Experts  know  that !  But  you  need  not 
be  expert  to  practice  this  simple  but 
vital  precaution.  When  you  buy  soap — 
just  ask  what  it's  made  of.  You'll  learn 
why  millions  turn  each  year  to  Palm- 
olive—  and  Palmolive  alone  —  to  Keep 
that  Schoolgirl  Complexion. 


Read  what  these  experts  say  about  this  vegetable  oil  soap.    They  are 

world  leaders  in  beauty  culture.    Their  word  in  beauty  matters  is 

law  to  thousands  of  the  world's  loveliest  women. 


Cain  of  Minneapolis 

Myndall  Cain  gives  this 
advice:  "The  modern  woman 
uses  make-up,  of  course.  She 
must  guard  her  lovely  com- 
plexion twice  as  well  as  before. 
For  this  purpose  we  advise 
home  treatments  with  a  soap 
made  of  the  vegetable  oils  of 
the  olive  and  palm." 


Pierre  of  New  York 

Pierre  dictates  the  laws  of 
beauty  to  the  most  fashion- 
able of  New  York's  social  set. 
"It  is  the  vegetable  oils  of 
the  olive  and  palm  that  make 
Palmolive  so  soothing  and 
delicate,"  he  says. 


Mrs.  McGavran  of  Kansas  City 

Mrs.  M.  B.  McGavran,  famous 
exponent  of  beauty,  says: 
"Repeated  experiments  have 
convinced  us  that  vegetable 
oils  in  soap  are  best  for  the 
skin.  That  is  why  we  say. 
use  Palmolive.  This  soap  has  a 
bland,  yet  penetrating  lather." 


Hoare  of  London 

The  famous  Marguerite 
Hoare,  of  London,  says: 
"My  solution  to  the  problem 
of  daily  cleansing,  is  Palm- 
olive Soap.  Olive  and  palm 
oils  have  actual  cosmetic 
value  in  themselves." 


Desfosse  of  Paris 

Desfosse  says:  "Palmolive  is 
so  effective  because  of  a 
unique  blending  of  the  olive 
and  palm  oils  it  contains, 
agents  which  cleanse  and 
soothe  the  complexion,  and  at 
the  same  time  bring  out  nat- 
ural color." 


Rohde  of  Chicago 
"It  cleanses  as  only  an  olive 
oil  soap  can — effectively,  but 
with  a  gentleness  that  pre- 
vents skin  irritation.  Use 
Palmolive  and  you  will  be 
giving  your  beauty  specialist 
the  greatest  possible  help." 


\CsJLJp  ihcuh  S ciyjcn^xL^Ji  QwrhJjJhis^^ 


7» 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


^flgjg^^^ 


The  boyish  figure  belongs  to  yes- 
terday. Curves  have  come  back 
in  fashion.  .  .  .  Not  too  pronounced, 
not  too  slight . . .  but  delicate,  subtle, 
captivating. 

Never  was  a  good  figure  more 
important  than  for  these  modern 
feminine  costumes. 

And  a  good  figure  is  not  so  difficult 
...  if  you  diet  and  exercise  wisely. 
But  be  sure  you  protect  youth  and 


Leila  Hyams,  lovely  Metro-Ooldwyn-Mayer  player,  is 
equally  charming  in  sports  and  evening  wear.  For  tennis, 
she  wears  a  three-piece  ensemble — with  sweater,  pleated 
skirt,  and  cardigan  jacket.  For  riding,  she  chooses  open- 
neck,  short-sleeved  shirts  ttwked  under  slenderizing  jod- 
phurs.  And  lor  evening,  she  prefers  a  sophisticated  gown 
0/  black  lace. 


beauty  by  avoiding  the  dangers  of 
most  starvation  menus  .  .  .  dietary 
anemia and  improper  elimination. 

There  is  a  safe,  pleasant  way. 
Just  eat  two  tablespoonfuls  daily  of 
Kellogg's  All-Bran.  This  delicious 
ready-to-eat  cereal  provides  the 
"bulk"  needed  for  regular  habits. 
How  much  better  this  is  than  tak- 
ing pills  or  drugs — so  often  harmful. 

You  can  enjoy  Kellogg's  All- 
Bran  day  in  and  day  out  and  not 
lose  your  appetite  for  it.  Serve  with 
milk  or  in  fruit  juices,  clear  soups, 
etc.  Use  it  for  making  fluffy  bran 
muffins,  breads,  omelets,  etc.  Recipes 
on  the  package.  Kellogg's  All-Bran 
is  not  fattening.  And  it  supplies 
iron,  which  colors  cheeks  heathfully. 
Recommended  by  dietitians. 


Remember,  there's  only  one  All- 
Bran,  and  that's  Kellogg's — by  far 
the  largest-selling  all-bran  cereal  on 
the  market.  In  the  red-and-green 
package.  At  all  grocers.  Made  by 
Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 


WRITE   FOR   FREE   BOOKLET 

"THE    MODERN    FIGURE" 

Leading  motion-picture  actresses 

are  shown   to  you  in   "fashion 

close-ups,"  wearing  the  costumes 

that  millions  of  critical  eyes  will 

see  on   the  screen.   Everything 

from  sports-togs    to  evening 

gowns.   In   addition,   the   booklet  is   full  of 

valuable    information    on    how    to    reduce 

wisely.  Free  upon  request. 

KELLOGG  COMPANY 

Dept.  A-8,  Battle  Creek,  Michigan 

Please  send  me  a  free  copy  of  your  booklet, 
"The  Modern  Figure." 

Name__ 


Address. 


- 


picnic  Basket  Tips 

*s  The  Ken  Maynards,  expert  picnickers, 

tell  some  favorite  dishes 


PICNICKING  with  the  Ken  Maynards  is  not  a  haphazard 
affair.  Whether  they  go  off  for  one  day  or  several,  their 
picnic  baskets  are  packed  with  the  skill  of  long  practice. 
The  Maynard  picnic  jaunts  are  taken  by  roadster,  air- 
plane, or  speedboat. 

Idyhvild  and  the  San  Jacinto  mountains  are  two  favorite 
spots  for  longer  trips;  the  Sherwood  Forest  not  far  from  Holly- 
wood is  usually  chosen  for  shorter  ones. 

If  you  enjoy  the  same  sort  of  alfresco  dining,  you  will  simplify 
your  trips  by  following  some  of  the  Maynard  methods  of  pre- 
paring and  cooking  food. 

For  two  meals,  Mrs.  Maynard  takes  along  the  following: 
J4  pound  of  butter,  a  loaf  of  whole  wheat  bread,  a  small  bag  of 
Irish  potatoes,  a  can  of  coffee,  one  pound  of  bacon,  small  filet 
steaks,  chops  or  ham,  fresh  eggs,  pickles,  olives,  fruit,  jelly, 
potato  salad  or  cole-slaw,  cake,  canned  corn,  sugar,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Utensils  for  such  an  expedition  include  pots,  pans,  coffee  pot, 
a  picnic  kit  holding  silverware  and  cardboard  dishes.  Mrs. 
Maynard  takes  the  grate  from  the  kitchen  stove  oven,  which 
she  uses  to  simplify  outdoor  cooking.  She  pro[  s  it  up  over  the 
fire,  using  piles  of  stones  at  each  end  for  support.  Try  yours 
this  way  and  you  won't  have  any  overturned  coffee  pots  or 
dishes! 

SWEET  POTATOES  are  fried  by  Ken  as  he  used  to  do  tbem 
for  his  cowboy  pals  on  the  range.  The  "sweets"  are  sliced  very 
thin,  then  fried  in  plenty  of  butter,  the  tops  sprinkled  with 
sugar;  repeating  the  process  until  the  frying  pan  is  heaped  high 
with  the  delicacy.  Mrs.  Maynard  often  prepares  this  at  home 
in  the  skillet.  By  wrapping  the  pan  in  a  clean  towel  while  very 
hot  and  folding  the  newspapers  around  the  entire  package,  the 
potatoes  remain  warm  for  hours. 


COLE-SLAW  a  la  Maynard,  consists  of  cabbage  shredded 
fine,  drained  and  kept  in  the  ice-box  as  long  as  possible.  Chop 
the  onion  fine  and  mix  with  celery,  sugar  and  vinegar  with 
shredded  pimentos  on  top. 

For  broiling  steaks,  the  Maynards  add  charcoal  to  the  wood 
fire.  This  heats  faster  and  makes  more  even  coals.  The  steaks 
are  placed  on  the  grate  over  the  coals,  rubbed  in  butter  and 
sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper.  They  are  turned  frequently, 
then  served  with  crisp  bacon  broiled  on  sticks  held  over  a  hot  fire. 

Eggs  and  potatoes  are  roasted  by  burying  them  in  wood 
ashes.  The  eggs  are  ready  to  eat  in  thirty  minutes,  while  the 
length  of  time  for  the  potatoes  depends  on  their  size. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


Photoplay  Magazine 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous  Cook 
Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the  stars. 
I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


Ken  Maynard  must  be  a  good 
cook  to  receive  such  alert  in- 
terest from  his  own  horse! 
Food  is  never  more  savory 
than  when  it  is  cooked  over 
glowing  coals  in  the  open 


79 


Clara?   Guess  again. 
It's  Peggy  Shannon 


"LJISTORY  keeps  on  repeating  itself.  Now  it's 
■*■  •*  Peggy  Shannon  who  profits  by  Clara  Bow's 
breakdown.  Remember  when  Sylvia  Sidney 
stepped  intoaBowrole?  Peggy  has  the  "It"  girl's 
part  in  "The  Secret  Call"  and  they're  staying 
awake  nights  to  make  her  look  like  Clara. 
Above,  the  result.     At  the  right,  as  she  really  is 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


81 


9(e 


One  of  the  young  men  I  talked  with  was  a  tennis  champion.  He  said:  "My 
ideal  girl  will  be  a  good  sport  about  everything  she  does.  But  she'll  be 
feminine,  too — a  dream  in  an  evening  dress.  Above  all,  she'll  be  natural. " 


eres  THE  MAN! 
%Jire    Zfou 


•    • 


THE  GIRL? 


This  young  athlete  is  one  of  the 
majority  of  attractive  men  who 
want  to  marry  natural  girls. 

And  the  first  thing  any  of  these 
men  notice  is — complexion. 

Imagine  your  own  complexion 
under  a  man's  keen  gaze.  Would 
he  be  admiring  or  critical? 

To  bring  out  the  natural  beauty 
of  your  skin,  try  Camay.  Derma- 
tologists    advise    soap-and-water 


cleansing;  and  declare  Camay  a 
"find" — a  really  safe  and  gentle 
soap.  Many  of  these  famous  doctors 

©  1931.  P.  &  G.  Co. 


CAMAY 

COMPLEXION     SOAP 


prescribe  Camay  for  the  extra-del- 
icate skins  of  their  own  patients. 

No  soap  except  Camay  has  ever 
received  such  medical  approval! 

Camay  is  satin-smooth  and  nice 
to  hold  .  .  .  the  loveliest  soap  you 
ever  used.  Its  lather  is  creamy  and 
soft  and  luxuriously  fragrant.  Try 
Camay — today!  You  owe  it  to 
your  skin— and  to  all  those 
attractive  young  men. 


for  the  fresh  natural 
skin  men  admire 


0 


uestions 


A 


nswers 


One  of  the  busiest  boys  in  Hollywood.  Clark 
Gable  just  sprints  from  one  fine  role  to 
another  and  the  fans  are  asking  all  about  him 


Read  This  Before  Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call  for  unduly  long  answers,  such  as  synopses 
of  plays  or  casts.  Do  not  inquire  concerning  religion,  scenario  writing  or 
studio  employment.  Write  on  only  one  side  of  the  paper.  Sign  your  full 
name  and  address. 

Casts  and  Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much  space  and  are  not  always  of  interest  to  others  than 
the  inquirer,  we  treat  such  subjects  in  a  different  way  from  other  questions. 
For  this  kind  of  information,  a  stamped,  addressed  envelope  must  be  sent. 
Address  all  inquiries  to  Questions  and  Answers,  Photoplay  Magazine, 
221  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City. 


HUNDREDS  of  letters  received  this 
month  asked  for  information  about 
Clark  Gable.  The  present  screen  idols 
are  going  to  have  to  defend  their  laurels,  with 
Clark  gaining  a  stronger  foothold  in  every 
picture.  Fans  seem  to  have  gone  hook,  line 
and  sinker  for  him. 

History  reveals  that  Clark  was  born  in 
Cadiz,  Ohio,  February  1,  1901.  He  reaches  6 
feet,  1  inch,  weighs  190  and  has  brown  hair  and 
grey  eyes.  Like  many  another  youth  he  at- 
tended grammar  school,  high  school  and  then 
took  a  business  course,  only  to  throw  it  over 
for  a  theatrical  career. 

It  was  a  lucky  break  for  Clark.  After  a  very 
successful  stage  career,  he  joined  the  talkie 
brigade  in  1930,  making  his  bow  as  the  bandit 
in  "The  Painted  Desert."  This  was  followed 
by  such  fine  pictures  as  "Dance  Fools,  Dance," 
"The  Easiest  Way,"  "The  Finger  Points," 
"The  Secret  Six,"  "A  Free  Soul,"  and  "Laugh- 
ing Sinners."  Then  came  the  lead  opposite  the 
glorious  Garbo  in  "Susan  Lenox."  Clark  is 
married,  the  present  Mrs.  Gable  being  his 
second  wife. 

Josie,  Kansas  City,  Kan.:  Well,  I'm  glad 
to  meet  one  girl  who  loves  a  fat  man.  Your  boy 
friend,  Joe  Cobb,  just  out-grew  "Our  Gang" 
and  so  he  started  on  a  vaudeville  career.  He 
was  replaced  in  the  "  Gang"  by  another  baby 
blimp  called  Chubby  Chaney.  Chub  wobbles 
the  scales  up  to  about  108  pounds,  and  is 
eleven  years  old. 

Kathlyn  Williams  Forever  Fan,  Phila- 
delphia, Pa.:  Just  snap  out  of  that  trance 
you  are  in  because  you  can  see  your 
favorite  on  the  screen  right  now.  She 
is  appearing  with  Janet  Gaynor  and 
Warner  Baxter  in  "Daddy  Long  Legs." 
Miss  Williams  is  a  native  of  Butte, 
Mont.,  and  is  of  Norwegian  descent. 


Bubbles,  Toledo,  Ohio:  Bob 
Montgomery  was  in  New  York  City 
for  a  brief  vacation  in  April.  He  had 
the  missus  with  him,  but  that  didn't 
keep  the  admiring  ladies  away.  Bob 
did  intend  to  go  to  Europe,  but 
picture  plans  didn't  fit  in  with  the  idea 
and  he  had  to  return  to  the  studio. 
His  latest  picture  is  "The  Man  in  Pos- 
session," taken  from  a  popular  stage 
play. 

82 


Fumi,  Tokio,  Japan:  Your  old  friend  and 
favorite,  Sessue  Hayakawa,  has  at  last  de- 
cided to  make  a  talkie.  It  is  for  Paramount 
and  is  titled  "Daughter  of  the  Dragon."  Anna, 
May  Wong  is  also  returning  to  the  screen  in 
this  picture.  Looks  like  an  Oriental  old  home 
week. 

Paul  Hipple,  Marysville,  Pa.:  June 
Marlowe  was  the  cute  little  school  m'arm  who 
taught  "Our  Gang"  in  "Love  Business."  Be- 
lieve me,  they  never  had  'em  that  cute  when  I 
went  to  the  Little  Red  Schoolhouse. 

Alice  Birrell,  Toronto,  Canada.  The 
lad  who  struck  your  fancy  in  "  Body  and  Soul " 
was  Douglas  Dray,  who  was  really  christened 
John  Douglas  Duder.  Neither  of  these  names 
was  quite  suitable  for  the  screen  so  he  had  his 
name  changed  again  and  is  now  known  as 
Douglas  Walton.  He  is  a  neighbor  of  yours, 
having  been  born  in  Woodstock,  Can.,  on 
October  17,  1909.  Is  5  feet,  \\y2  inches  tall, 
weighs  155  and  has  blond  hair  and  blue  eyes. 

Louise  Samson,  Albion,  Neb.:  You're 
wrong,  Louise,  I  have  got  influence  around 
here.  See  the  nice  colored  picture  of  Gary 
Cooper  in  this  issue.  Gary  was  born  on  May 
7,  1901.  His  latest  picture  is  titled  "I  Take 
This  Woman."  Wonder  which  woman  he 
means — Lupe? 

D.  B.,  San  Francisco,  Calif.:  Vivian  Oak- 
land was  the  lady  who  played  the  first  wife  of 
Frank  Fay  in  "The  Matrimonial  Bed."  Paul 
Gregory  was  the  handsome  chap  who  played 


"OHOTOPLAY  is  printing  a  list  of 
■*■  studio  addresses  and  the  stars 
located  at  each  one.  Read  it,  on 
page  94,  before  writing  to  this 
department.  In  writing  to  the 
stars  for  photographs  PHOTOPLAY 
advises  you  to  enclose  twenty-five 
cents,  to  cover  the  cost  of  the 
picture  and  postage. 


the  role  of  Tom  Wesion  in  "Sit  Tight."  He 
also  played  the  part  of  the  Indian,  Wancnis,  in 
"Whoopee." 

Boots  Kent:  Hardie  Albright  is  quite  a 
newcomer,  having  entered  pictures  last  Feb- 
ruary. However,  he  has  had  plenty  of  stage 
experience,  appearing  in  "Cradle  Song," 
"Young  Sinners,"  "The  Greeks  Had  a  Word 
for  It"  and  several  George  Arliss  plays.  Hardie 
was  born  in  Charleroi,  Pa.,  December  16,  1905, 
is  6  feet  tall,  weighs  160  and  has  medium  brown 
hair  and  blue  eyes.  He  is  of  Scotch  descent. 
His  next  picture  is  "Skyline." 

Alice  Murdach,  Aberdeen,  Wash.:  Little 
Jackie  Cooper,  who  did  such  beautiful  work  in 
"Skippy,"  claims  Los  Angeles  as  his  home 
town.  Jack  has  nice  blue  eyes,  taffy-colored 
hair,  a  cute  snub  nose  and  will  be  seven  years 
old  on  September  16.  Both  his  mother  and  his 
grandmother  are  devoting  their  time  to  bring- 
ing him  up  to  be  a  regular  fellow.  M-G-M 
recently  bought  his  contract  from  Hal  Roach. 

L.  Snodcrass,  St.  Paul,  Minn.:  Joel 
McCrea  hails  from  Los  Angeles.  He  is  25 
years  old,  stands  6  feet,  2,  weighs  185  and  has 
brown  hair  and  blue  eyes.  He  appeared  in 
silent  pictures  but  did  not  make  much  of  a  hit 
until  the  talkies.  It  seems  he  also  made  a  hit 
with  Constance  Bennett  while  appearing  in  a 
picture  with  her.  So  far  Joel  has  managed  to 
remain  single. 

Ben  Marino,  Morgan  City,  La.:  Louis 
Wolheim  was  about  forty-five  years  old  when 
he  passed  away,  February  18,  1931. 
Bob  Steele  has  been  celebrating  birth- 
days every  January  23,  since  1907. 
How's  your  addition? 

Grace  Wunderlich,  Landsdowne, 
Pa  :  Fay  Wray's  husband,  John  Monk 
Saunders,  is  an  author.  He  wrote 
"Wings,"  and  "The  Last  FLight," 
which  Dick  Barthelmess  has  just  fin- 
ished making.  Here  are  the  birth 
dates  you  requested:  John  Wayne, 
born  May  26,  1907;  Phillips  Holmes, 
July  22,  1909;  William  Haines,  Janu- 
ary 1, 1900,  and  Lew  Ayres,  December 
28,  1909.  At  this  writing  these  boys 
are  still  single.  Maybe  they're 
bachelor-minded. 


Photoplay  Magazine  i-ok  Aucust,  1931 


83 


Jrte  stcumj  umxi  ixy  new 


// 


rOmjCLTUGG . 


by  Frances  Ingram 

SUCH  delightful  acquaintances  as  I  made 
on  the  Coast  last  spring!  And  not  the 
least  delightful  was  a  lovely  woman  whom 
I  met  on  the  train  en  route  from  Seattle 
to  San  Francisco. 

We  chatted  together  and  exchanged  names . 
"Are  you  the  Frances  Ingram?"  she  asked — 
and  then  told  me  what  my  method  with 
Milkweed  Cream  had  done  for  her. 

After  the  death  of  her  husband,  she  had, 


as  she  said,  grieved  herself  old.  "I  finally 
realized  that  I  must  get  hold  of  myself.  I 
could  at  least  try  to  recover  my  looks.  Some- 
body had  told  me  about  your  Milkweed 
method.  Gradually  my  skin  became  soft  and 
fresh  again.  I  actually  began  to  look,  to 
feel  like  myself. 

"I  wonder  if  you  shouldn't  have  credit 
for  my  having  found  love  again,"  she  finally 
smiled.  "I*m  going  to  San  Francisco  to  be 
married.  I  call  your  splendid  method  'the 
starry  way  to  new  romance'  ..." 


Thousands  of  women  have  found  new 
skin  loveliness  by  following — at  home — 
my  Milkweed  method.  Keep  your  skin 
immaculately  clean  with  Milkweed  Cream, 
which  is  first  of  all  a  marvelous  cleansing 
cream.  Then — follow  the  directions  given 
below  on  this  page. 

And  won't  you  listen  in  on  my  radio 
program,  "Through  the  looking-glass 
with  Frances  Ingram,"  Tuesday  morn- 
ings at  10:15  E.D.S.T.,  over  WJZ  and 
associated  N.B.C.  stations? 


MY    MANNEQUIN,    SAYS    FRANCES    INGRAM,    SHOWS    WRY 

Onlu  a  nealtliu  J  kin  can  Atmi  iioumq 


,  THE  FOREHEAD — To  guard  against  lines 
and  wrinkles  here  apply  Milk  weed  Cream, 
stroking  with  fingertips,  outward  from  the 
center  of  brow. 

>  the  eyes — To  avoid  aging  crows'  feet, 
smooth  Ingram 's  about  the  eyes,  stroke  with 
a  feather  touch  outward  over  brow  and 
inward  under  lower  lids. 

•  the  mouth — Drooping  lines  are  easily 
defeated  by  placing  thumbs  under  the  chin 
and  stroking  with  index  fingers  upward 
and  outward  toward  the  ears. 

,  the  throat — To  keep  your  throat  from 
flabbiness,  cover  generously  with  Milkweed 
Cream,  and  from  the  holloiv  at  the  base, 
stroke  upward  toward  the  chin. 

the  neck  and  chin — To  prevent  a  sag- 
ging chin,  stroke  with  fingertips  from  under 
the  chin  outward,  under  the  jawbone,  to- 
ward the  ears.  Then  pat  firmly  under  the 
chin  and  along  the  jaw  contours. 

.  the  shoulders —  To  have  shoulders  that 
are  blemish-free  and  firmly  smooth,  mas- 
sage with  palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion 
with  plenty  of  cream. 


TMW^Crecun  I 


MY  INTRODUCTORY  TUBE  AND  MY 
BEAUTY   BOOKLET    WILL    DELIGHT   YOU 

FRANCES  INGRAM,  Dept.  A-81 
108  Washington  Street,  New  York 

D  Please  send  me  your  introductory  Milkweed 
Cream  treatment  and  your  booklet.  "Why  Only  a 
Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young."  I  enclose  4  cents  in 
stamps  to  cover  cost  of  mailing. 

Please  send  me  your  bookler.   "Why  Only  a 
ealthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young,"  which  is  free. 


City  . 


State- 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  37  ] 


Kay  Francis  watching  new  hubby  Kenneth  MacKenna  direct  Elissa  Landi 

and  Frederick  Kerr  in  a  scene  from  Fox's  "Always  Goodbye."    Ken  is 

showing  Kay  he  knows  what  every  good  director  should  do  by  acting  as 

though  he  wants  to  jump  out  of  his  chair 


NEW  foot-fashion  note: 
Marlene    Dietrich    came    back    from 
Europe  to  Hollywood  with  a  pair  of— well — ah 
— can't  call  'em  shoes- — or  sandals,  either — ■ 

They  consist,  each,  of  a  sole  and  high  heel. 
The  only  "upper"  there  is  consists  of  two 
narrow  straps  across  the  foot — more  to  hold 
the  sole-and-heel  arrangement  on  than  for  any- 
thing else.  Worn  with  them  are  very  sheer 
hose — and  carmined  toe-nails! 

y^ITS  tells  the  one  about  the  two 
Atlanta,  Ga.,  kids  who,  left  to 
their  own  devices  while  their  mothers 
were  shopping  and  having  been 
warned  not  to  put  beans  in  their 
noses,  decided  to  telephone  their 
favorite  star,  Anita  Page.  They 
finally  got  her  at  the  studio  where 
they  had  to  wait  a  few  minutes  until 
she  came  to  the  'phone.  Later,  the 
operator  reported  a  $15  charge  for 
long  distance  to  Hollywood. 

The  kids  have  been  eating  off  the 
mantel  for  a  couple  of  weeks,  now. 

RUTH  CHATTERTON  has  the  faculty  of 
grabbing  off  a  quick  nap  any  place  and  any 
time — even  on  the  set.  Between  scenes,  she 
can  often  be  found  asleep. 

CONRAD  NAGEL  is  an  usher  in  a 
Hollywood  church.  The  other 
day,  a  certain  film  star's  little  daugh- 
ter came  home  from  that  church's 
Sunday  school  with  a  question. 

"Mother,"  she  asked,  "why  do 
they  call  Mister  Nagel  just  Mister 
Nagel  on  week  days  and  call  him  the 
Lord  on  Sundays?" 

"Why,  darling — do  they?"  asked 
film-star-mother,  astounded. 

"I'll  say  they  do,"  lisped  darling; 

&4 


"at  Sunday  school  this  morning,  the 
superintendent  said,  'Now  children, 
it's  time  to  give  your  nickels  to  the 
Lord,'  and  then  Mister  Nagel  came 
around  and  took  'em." 

RENEE  ADOREE,  convalescing  in  the 
desert,  has  gained  fifteen  pounds.  ...  It 
has  not  yet  been  decided  who  will  bring  the 
suit — Estefle  or  Jack  Dempsey.  ...  A  raise  in 
salary  has  patched  up  Jack  Oakie's  troubles 
with  Paramount.  .  .  .  The  courts  have  ruled 
that  Daisy  DeVoe,  Clara's  ex-friend,  must 
serve  eighteen  months  in  the  jug.  .  .  .  Con- 
stance Bennett  gets  $11  a  minute  for  every 
minute  she  works.  .  .  .  Television  is  still  just 
around  the  corner  .  .  .  and  the  corner  is  at 
least  five  years  away.  .  .  .  Tom  Mix  is  coming 
back  to  make  horse  dramas  next  fall.  .  .  . 
Latest  reports  of  Mary  and  Doug  are  that  each 
is  to  become  an  independent  producer,  not 
appearing  in  the  pictures.  .  .  .  Ronald  Colman 
plans  to  take  a  half-year  vacation  in  England 
every  year. 

yARIETY  reports  the  story  of  a 
newspaper  lad  who's  been  work- 
ing on  one  of  the  trade  sheets.  He 
arrived  at  First  National  to  have 
lunch  with  Ben  Lyon. 

"Sorry,"  said  the  information  girl. 
"You  can't  go  to  the  lunch-room.  No 
newspapermen  are  allowed  on  the 
lot  except  in  the  publicity  office." 

"But  I've  just  been  fired,"  said  the 
lad.     He  got  his  okay  to  go  inside. 

IF  you  want  to  preserve  the  memory  of 
Rudolph  Valentino  in  "The  Sheik,"  you'd 
better  take  pen  in  hand  and  write  a  letter  of 
protest  to  Paramount,  for  that  studio  is  con- 
sidering doing  a  talkie  version  of  the  famous 
old  sex  "drahma."    Georges  Metaxa — there's 


a  name  for  you — recently  brought  over  from 
England,  is  likely  to  get  the  name  role  and  it's 
rumored  that  Claudette  Colbert  will  be  the 
kidnapped  lady — you  remember  Agnes  Ayres 
in  that  part. 

T\  THEN  Sylvia  Sidney,  the  little  lassie  who 
**  took  Clara  Bow's  place  in  "  City  Streets," 
visited  Minneapolis  recently,  she  told  the 
newspaper  boys  that  Clara  was  "a  pathetic 
little  girl,  the  victim  of  her  own  generosity." 
She  further  added  that  putting  Clara  in  Holly- 
wood was  like  "sending  a  baby  out  into  the 
world  and  telling  it  to  make  its  own  way." 
Maybe  Clara  won't  like  being  patronized  by 
her  successor. 

•"THE  Hollywood  press — a  goodly  crowd  of 
-*-  goodly  scribes — is  annoyed  at  the  manner  in 
which  some  of  the  office  studio  lots  are  patrolled. 
You  have  to  give  your  middle  name,  describe 
the  mole  on  your  grandmother's  shoulder  and 
say  the  multiplication  table  backwards  to  get 
in. 

Burly  policemen,  with  pistols  at  hips,  stand 
guard,  and  you  can't  even  speak  to  a  star 
without  the  official  okay  of  the  publicity  de- 
partment. The  idea  is  to  keep  the  naughty 
press  boys  from  printing  naughty  things  about 
the  screen  beauties. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  86  ] 


The  depression  has  reached  Holly- 
wood and  Carole  Lombard's  black 
souffle  evening  gown  with  silver 
sequins  hits  a  new  low.  Well,  glad 
to  see  your  back,  anyway,  Carole 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


85 


JVLme  •  .  . 

as   though  J_  d  had  it  made  to  my  order  I 


says 

JOAN  CRAWFORD 

1  had  always  tola  my  Iriends 
that  some  day  1  would 
make  a  perlume  .  .  .  not  sim- 
pering sweetness  . . .  but  dash, 
and  zip  .  .  .  oh7  gay  modern 
things  !  And  then,  one  day, 
1  lound  it  ...  1  didn  t  make 
it  ...  but  tSeventeen  is  all  1 
wanted  it  to  be. 


lkree  quick  aids  to  the  complexion  of  Seventeen 

The  exquisite  coloring  of  youthful  skin  is  in  these 
new  make-up  accessories!  Seventeen  Youth -tone 
Rouge  brings  elusive  color  tones  to  your  complexion 
.  . .  ana  forms,  with  the  Lipstick,  a  stunning  ensemble 
in  black  ana  silver  ....  Seventeen  Lipstick  comes 
in  youth-tone  shades,  and  is  permanent  or  not,  as 
you  choose.  Aloisten  the  lips  before  applying  and 
the  color  becomes  indelible  ....  Seventeen  Two- 
Tone  Face  Powder  blends  snades  to  simulate  the 
radiance  of  youthful  skin  ....  Also:  Seventeen 
Perfume,  Dusting  and  Face  Powder,  Talcum  Pow- 
der,   Compact,  Brillantine,  Sachet,  Toilet   V\^ater. 

Tlie  Seventeen  Bridge  Ensemble  will  lend 
a  new,  smart  note  to  your  entertaining.  Ask 
for  it  at  your  favorite  toilet  goods  counter. 


eaeateenj? 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  84  ] 


Mary  and  Doug,  reunited  and  on  their  way  home  on  "The  Empress  of 
Britain,"  the  new  ship  of  the  Canadian  Pacific  Railway.  But  there  are 
three  cups  on  the  table.  Quick,  Watson,  the  Gypsy  Dream  Book,  so  we 
can  learn  what  this  means.  Maybe  it  will  tell  us  if  Doug  and  Mary  are 
going  to  make  any  more  pictures,  or  quell  that  hard-dying  divorce  rumor 


A  T  least  once  during  every  picture  Von 
■*»-Sternberg  terrorizes  every  member  of  his 
cast.  He  is  no  respecter  of  persons.  His  alibi 
is  that  he  does  this  to  bring  out  the  player's 
best  work. 

But  the  electricians  and  prop  boys  were  more 
than  a  little  annoyed  when  he  put  Bodil 
Rosing,  a  woman  almost  old  enough  to  be  his 
mother,  through  a  strenuous  tongue  lashing. 
He  was  quite  insulting,  told  her  he  wished  he 
had  another  person  playing  her  part,  etc.,  etc., 
etc.  Seeing  Bodil's  face,  one  of  the  electricians 
remarked,  "Job  or  no  job,  just  one  more  word 
out  of  that  guy  and  I'd  have  knocked  him  for  a 
row  of  microphones." 

A  RECENT    RKO-Pathe    picture 
was  noted  for  the   number  of 
writers  that  worked  on  it. 

At  the  pre-view  (and  you  can  be- 
lieve this  or  not!)  some  bounder 
yelled  "Author!"  and  the  first  two 
rows  stood  up  and  took  a  bow. 

/"^OSSIP  is  crediting  Photoplay's  exclusive 
^-'story  on  the  romance  of  William  Powell  and 
Carole  Lombard  as  the  cause  for  the  announce- 
ment of  their  engagement.  They  say  Bill 
forced  the  young  lady's  hand  when  he  read  it. 

86 


But  he  gave  in  on  some  points,  too.  For 
example,  he  had  wanted  her  to  end  her  career 
and  become  just  Mrs.  Powell.  She  is  con- 
tinuing in  pictures  by  definite  agreement. 

Carole's  engagement  ring  is  an  eight-carat 
diamond — -oblong  shape,  emerald  cut.  It  has 
three  diamonds  on  each  side.  The  ring  is  so 
heavy  it  falls  to  the  side  of  her  finger.  A  friend 
says  if  Bill  Powell  got  it  for  fifteen  thousand  he 
got  it  on  depression  prices. 

THE  pass  system  at  the  studios  even  has  the 
bootleggers  punching  time-clocks.  .  .  . 
Marlene  Dietrich  has  taken  the  Beverly  Hills 
house  once  rented  by  Charlie  Mack  of  the  Two 
Black  Crows.  .  .  .  Alice  White  has  gone 
orange-haired,  worn  in  a  windblown  bob.  .  .  . 
Immediately  after  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Neil  Hamilton 
adopted  a  baby  Neil  was  assigned  one  of  the 
leading  roles  in  "Lullaby." 

A  FRIEND  of  ours,  just  returned  from 
abroad,  brings  us  these  news  items:  "The 
Devil  to  Pay,"  Ronnie  Colman's  engaging 
comedy,  is  billed  as  "Lieutenant  Sans-Gene" 
there.  .  .  .  The  rumor  is  current  that  King 
George  was  all  set  to  knight  Chaplin,  but 
Queen  Mary  opposed  it,  frowning  on  knighting 
movie  stars. 


•"THINGS  aren't  necessarily  what  they're 
*■  called,  in  studio  language. 

A  blimp  is  not  a  balloon.  It's  a  soundproof 
covering  slipped  over  a  camera  to  mufHe  the 
noise  of  the  machinery. 

A  pan  is  not  something  you  fry  things  in. 
It's  short  for  a  "panorama  camera  shot." 

A  spider  isn't  an  animal  to  be  scared  of.  It's 
an  electric  switch  to  plug  lights  into. 

An  inkie  isn't  something  you  write  with.  It's 
short  for  incandescent  light. 

A  film  magazine  isn't  like  what  you're  read- 
ing now.    It's  where  they  store  negatives. 

A  dolly  isn't  something  for  little  girls  to  play 
with.  It's  a  rubber-tired  cart  for  traveling 
camera  shots. 

A  gaffer  isn't  a  term  for  a  bum.  It's  studio 
talk  for  electrician. 

A  broad  isn't  necessarily  a  girl.  It's  a  big 
electric  floodlight. 

And  Mike  isn't  a  man's  name. 

THEY  say  that  when  Chaplin  re- 
turns to  Hollywood,  he'll  have  a 
new  discovery  signed  under  con- 
tract. It's  said  the  lucky  girl's  real 
name  is  Miezzi  Mullett,  a  Czecho- 
Slovakian.  She  goes  under  the  name 
of  Maria  Martin. 

XJOW,  what  do  you  suppose  can  be  happen- 
■L^ing  to  Los  Angeles  newspaper  reporters? 
For  three  days  "Slim"  Summerville — who 
made  nine  features  and  fifteen  shorts  last  year 
— lay  at  the  point  of  death  and  no  one  recorded 
it.  In  fact,  the  doctors  gave  up  all  hope  of  his 
living. 

Then  Slim  proved  his  strength  was  greater 
than  the  doctor's  perception  and  pulled 
through  one  of  the  worst  cases  of  ptomaine 
poisoning  on  record.  But  he  got  out  too  soon. 
The  publicity  department  needed  some 
pictures  in  a  hurry. 

Slim  wanted  to  prove  he  was  a  trouper  so  he 
appeared  at  the  studio,  which  brought  about  a 
relapse. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  88  ] 


Just  another  pitiable  victim  of  the 
dread  ukulele  habit,  Cliff  (ex-Ukulele 
Bee)  Edwards,  in  a  specially  posed 
camera  portrait.  Let  this  be  a  warn- 
ing to  Summer  vacationists 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


87 


ilere  is  the  one  JNail  .Make-up 
that  lends  lasting  Qlamour  to  your  hands 


In  8  Fashion  Cities  of  the  world 

smart  women  prefer  this  Polish 

to  all  others 

SLIM  fingers  of  the  smart  Parisi- 
enne,  lifted  to  a  kiss  .  . .  graceful 
fingers  applauding  the  opera  in  Vienna 
. . .  and  sifting  the  silver  sands  of  the 
Lido  ...  all  wear  sparkling  Cutex 
Liquid  Polish. 

In  Madrid  the  lovely  Maribel, 
Beauty  Editor  of  "Cosmopolis,"  de- 
clares that  "modern  Spanish  women 
are  well  aware  of  the  magic  spell  their 
fingers  cast  when  tipped  with  this 
sparkling  nail  make-up. 

"In  30  seconds  it  has  dried,"  Mari- 
bel continues.  "It  lasts  for  one  whole 
week  .  .  .  wears  without  cracking, 
peeling,  or  turning  yellow!"  And  .  .  . 
happily  .  .  .  Cutex  Liquid  Polish  is 
free  of  any  added  perfume. 

In  all  world  capitals  of  fashion 
lovely  ladies  are  glad  to  find  that 
Cutex  Liquid  Polish  contains  no  per- 
fume. For  they  choose  their  perfumes 
as  they  select  their  gowns  ...  to  suit 
their  personalities. 

But  they  select  their  polish  for  its 
exquisite  lustre.  And  they  know  that 
the  high  brilliance  of  Cutex  Liquid 
Polish  endures. 

The  simple  manicure  method  that 
the  Spanish  woman  uses  is  the  one 
that  well-groomed  women  all  over 
the  world  have  found  so  simple,  so 
economical,  so  alluring: 


Long  ago  the  women  of  Spain  learned  the 
beauty  secret  that  lies  in  brilliant  accents  .  .  . 
lustrous  hair  .  .  .  flashing  teeth  .  .  .  sparkling 
eyes.  But  the  secret  that  today  gives  their  grace- 
ful gestures  new  allure  is  borrowed  from  the 
women  of  America.  It  is  Cutex  Liquid 
Polish,  the  newest  aid  to  romance! 


First,  scrub  the  nails  and  remove  old 
polish  with  Cutex  Liquid  Polish  Re- 
mover. Next  remove  the  old  lifeless 
cuticle  and  cleanse  beneath  the  nails 
with  Cutex  Cuticle  Remover  &  Nail 
Cleanser. 

Now  brush  on  your  favorite  shade 
of  brilliant  Cutex  Liquid  Polish. 

End  with  a  touch  of  Nail  White 
under  the  nail  tips  for  accent — Cutex 
Nail  White  Pencil  or  Cream. 

After  this  quick  manicure  once  a 
week  a  few  minutes  each  day  will 
keep  your  nails  flawlessly  lovely. 
Just  push  back  the  cuticle;  cleanse 
the  nail  tips  and  use  the  Nail  White — 
Pencil  or  Cream.  Before  retiring,  use 
Cutex  Cuticle  Oil  or  Cream  to  soften 
the  cuticle. 

Only  Cutex  Liquid  Polish  has 

ALL  these  advantages: 

1.  Dries  smoothly,  quickly,  in  30  seconds. 

2.  Never  cracks,  peels,  or  discolors. 

3.  Lasts  for  one  whole  week. 

4.  Sparkles  always  with  smart  lustre. 

5.  Comes  in  sturdy  bottles,  easy  to  open. 

Cutex  Manicure  Preparations,  35^  each. 
Cutex  Liquid  Polish  with  Remover,  50)f. 

NORTHAM  WARREN,  New  York,  London,  Parij 


Six  Lovely  Tints  .  .  .  Natural,  Rose,  Col- 
orless; Coral,  Cardinal  and  Garnet .  .  .  each 
one  brilliant  and  wonderfully  enduring. 


Cutex  Liquid  Polish 

Tips    the    fingers    with    romance 

ONLY  35^ 


I  enclose  I2f?  for  the  Cutex  Manicure  Set  containing 
sufficient  preparations  for  six  complete  manicures. 
(In  Canada,  address  Post  Office  Box  2320,  Montreal.) 

Northam  Warren,  Dept.  1  Qs 
191  Hudson  Street New  York,  N.  Y. 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  PROM  PAGE  86 


Paramount  would  have  us  believe  that  when  "Confessions  of  a  Co-ed"  was 
filmed  they  rounded  up  the  most  beautiful  co-eds  they  could  find.  Well, 
that  may  be,  but  the  girls  never  looked  like  this — no,  nor  posed  like  this — 
when  we  smoked  a  bulldog  pipe,  wore  peg-topped  trousers,  and  picked  a 
mandolin  for  dear  old  Siwash 


THERE'S    an    apartment    house    in    Los 
Angeles  named  the  Estelle  Arms.    And  the 
divorce-concerned  Mrs.  Dempsey  might  have 
been  astounded  the  other  day  when  this  classi- 
fied ad  appeared  in  the  L.  A.  papers — 
ESTELLE  ARMS 
Vacancy  To  Be  Filled 
Bachelors  and  Attractive 
Singles. 

YOU  read  about  Robert  Edeson's  passing  on 
— another  grand  old  man  of  the  films.  And 
you  probably  read,  too,  of  how,  upon  his  death- 
bed, he  requested  that  services  be  conducted 
during  a  noon  hour,  because  he  didn't  want  any 
work  at  studios  held  up  for  his  funeral. 

But  you  probably  didn't  read,  because  it 
wasn't  generally  known,  of  how  his  other  last 
wish  was  fulfilled. 

The  afternoon  of  the  funeral,  a  motor  boat 
pulled  away  from  the  side  of  John  Barrymore's 
yacht. 

In  it  were  Barrymore,  Robert  Edeson's 
widow,  and  two  old  friends  of  the  deceased 
actor— Edmund  Breese  and  Bobby  North. 

Three  miles  out  to  sea,  the  motors  were 
stopped.  Barrymore  dropped  an  armful  of 
roses  on  the  sea's  waves.  Aida  Edeson  scat- 
tered the  ashes  of  her  husband  from  an  urn  into 
the  ocean.  "Good-bye,  Bob — a  happy  voy- 
age," she  whispered. 

Silently  the  boat  returned  to  the  Barrymore 
yacht. 

Bob  Edeson  had  passed  on. 

THE  Hollywood  Reporter  recounts 
the  story  of  a  dumb  little  ing6nue 
who  was  discovered  making  a  big 
fuss  over  a  famous  impresario.  When 
asked  her  reasons,  she  said,  "Oh, 
I'm  just  doing  psychology." 

"Do  you  know  what  psychology 
is?"  she  was  asked. 

"Sure,"  she  said.  "It's  just  being 
nice  to  people!" 

A  DOLPHE  MENJOU  has  a  new  cigarette 
-*»-case.    It  is  inscribed: 

"To  Adolphe,  on  his  birthday,  from  his 
greatest  admirer,  Adolphe  Menjou." 

88 


BECAUSE  Doris  Kenyon  had  set  the  date 
for  leaving  Hollywood  for  Europe,  they  had 
to  rush  through  her  picture  with  Bill  Powell. 
There  were  no  regular  hours  and  no  time  out 
for  meals. 

Doris  was  always  munching  a  sandwich  or  a 
cake,  on  the  set. 

When  she  arrived  at  the  station  to  take  the 
train  from  Los  Angeles,  she  found  a  huge  cake, 
two  feet  in  circumference,  with  a  note  from  Bill 
Powell  saying: 

"Just  a  little  snack  for  you,  Doris." 


HpHE  rumor  was  that  Cecil  De  Mille  was 
*■  going  to  make  a  picture  in  Russia.  Variety 
asks:  What  would  De  Mille  do  for  a  bathtub? 

"CRANK  FAY  may  have  been  "God's  Gift  to 
■*•  Women"  in  the  picture  of  that  name,  but 
he's  no  gift  to  the  producers.  Warners  have 
just  bought  off  his  contract. 

JOEL  McCREA  is  still  trying  to 
figure  out  whether  someone  made 
an  honest  mistake,  or  is  just  trying 
to  get  fresh.  He  got  a  letter  in  his  fan 
mail  which  said,  among  other  things, 
"...  I  think  you're  the  most  like- 
able leading  lady  on  the  screen." 
And  Joel  stands  six  feet,  two! 

GEORGE  O'BRIEN  and  Margaret  Churchill 
have  been  on  the  same  lot  for  two  years  and 
have  never  seen  each  other  except  on  the 
screen!  When  they  were  cast  as  hero  and 
heroine  of  the  same  picture,  "Riders  of  the 
Purple  Sage"  a  mutualfriend  introduced  them! 

YOU  should  have  seen  Ben  Hecht  and  Charlie 
McArthur,  co-authors  of  "Front  Page,"  at 
the  Marion  Davies  masquerade.  They  came 
as  men  who  had  just  been  hanged.  Cut  nooses 
draped  from  their  bloodstained  necks.  They 
were  as  white  as  chalk  with  huge  scars  strung 
across  their  gangster  make-ups.  White  sheets 
as  covering.  Certainly,  the  women  yelled. 
And  the  men  grunted. 

WHEN  "The  Dove"  was  sold  by  United 
Artists  to  Radio  and  Walter  Huston  no 
longer  in  the  cast,  an  executive  called  him  and 
said,  "We  are  tied  up  for  your  salary,  I  wonder 
if  we  can  get  together  on  an  agreement." 

Huston  smiled.  "  That's  all  right.  I  haven't 
worked.  I  don't  know  why  I  should  be  paid 
for  work  I  haven't  done.    We'll  just  let  it  go." 

It  was  difficult  for  the  executives  to  believe 
their  ears. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  98  ] 


This  is  not  the  exercise  period  at  Sing  Sing,  but  Lloyd  Hughes,  Laura  La 

Plante  and  Marian  Marsh,  dressed  in  the  latest  Turkish  toweling  beach 

pajamas.    They  call  them  "roughies" 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


MODESS 

VACATION 

SPECIAL 

A  summer  thrift  idea 

You  save  on  every  purchase  during  July  and  August 


2  BOXES  OF  MODESS  .   900 

12  Regular  in  each 

^  TRAVEL  PACKAGE  .  .   250 

t>  Models  Compact 

Total  Value  $1 .1  5 


ALL  THREE  FOR 


79 


OUR  Vacation  Special — a  travel  package  of  six 
Modess  Compact  and  two  boxes  of  Modess 
Regular — was  so  popular  last  summer  that  we  de- 
cided to  offer  it  again.  It  has  all  the  charm  of  an 
irresistible  bargain — $1.15  worth  for  79c. 

And  the  two  types  of  Modess  featured  in  this 
Special  are  a  perfect  combination  for  summer 
comfort.  Modess  Regular  is  standard  thickness.  The 
Compact  is  Modess  Regular,  gently  compressed.  It 
is  designed  to  supplement  the  Regular  for  wear 
when  less  thickness  is  necessary. 

The  travel  package  of  Modess  Compact  is  a  very 
useful  thing.  The  amount  of  room  it  takes  in  a 
traveling  bag  is  hardly  noticeable.  It  comes  in  very 
handy  when  you  need  a  few  extra  Modess  to  see  you 
through.  You  can  tuck  it  away  in  a  bureau  drawer 
and  save  it  for  a  guest  accommodation. 

Why  worry  about  summertime  protection?  You 
can  wear  Modess  under  your  sheerest  dresses  with 
an  easy  feeling  of  perfect  safety — perfect  comfort. 
The  softly  fluffed  filler  is  cool  and  evenly  absorbent. 
Modess  will  never  be  conspicuous,  because  the  edges 
and  corners  are  carefully  rounded  and  it  smoothly 
fits  to  the  figure.  It  is 
deodorant-easily  (LXmX?H/cf4lXmon/ 

disposable.  (J  new  Brunswick.  (J    n.j..u.s.a. 

World's  largest  makers  of  surgical  dressings,  bandages.  Red  Cross  absorbent  cotton,  etc. 


W3JOJZEJ5 


T/INGSS 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


V: 


Natural  ^Waterproof 
Ideal   For  Summer 


THE  WORLD'S  MOST 
FAMOUS  LIPSTICK 

Swimming,  dancing,  outdoor 
sports  ...  all  the  pleasures  of 
summer  conspire  to  ruin  your 
make-up.  More  than  any  other 
time,  you  need  Tangee,  the  one 
lipstick  that  stays  on  despite 
sun  and  water!  And  looks 
natural  all  the  while! 

Tangee  gives  that  vital  glow  of  freshness, 
that  natural  color  which  is  so  much  in 
vogue  today!  For  Tangee  is  based  on  a  mar- 
velous color  principle ...  entirely  different 
from  any  other  lipstick!  Magically  it  takes 
on  color  after  you  apply  it  . . .  and  blends 
perfectly  with  your  natural,individual  color- 
ing, whether  blonde,  brunette  or  red- head. 

Tangee  leaves  no  greasy  smear  of  glaring, 
flashy  color.  Its  solidified  cream,  base  soothes, 
softens  and  protects!  Permanent,  it  stays  on 
all  day!  No  constant  making-up!  And  it  lasts 
twice  as  long  as  ordinary  lipsticks.  $1. 

New!  Tangee  Theatrical,  a  special  dark 
shade  of  Tangee  Lipstick  for  professional 
and  evening  use. 

Same  Tangee  Color  Principle  in 


Rouge  Compact  75c 


Creme  Rouge  sl 


SEND  20^  FOR  TANGEE   BEAUTY  SET 

Containing    miniature    Lipstick,   two    Rouges, 
Powder,  two  Creams  and  "The  Art  of  Make-up." 
The  George  W.  Luft  Co.,  Dept.  P7 
417  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 

Name 


Address.. 


Short  Subjects 
of  the  Month 


William  J.  Burns,  the  celebrated  international  detective, 
around  whose  mystery-solving  experience  has  been  built 
a  thrilling  series  of  famous  crimes  and  their  solutions.    One 
of  these  shorts  is  reviewed  below 


THE  STRANGLER 
Wm.  J.  Bums-Educational 
Here's  a  peek  behind  the  scenes  to  show  you 
how  a  real  murder  was  solved.  William  J. 
Burns,  whose  name  is  feared  by  criminals  the 
world  over,  tells  you  this  was  a  tough  one  to 
figure  out.  It  seems  simple  enough  when  you 
see  it  done. 

THE  PANIC  IS  ON 
Hal  Roach 
Another  bright  Charlie  Chase  comedy,  in 
which  a  little  dog  gives  Charlie  a  hot  run  for 
top  comedy  honors.  It's  about  a  youth  who 
practices  what  he's  learned  in  a  correspondence 
course  on  building  will  power.  They  all  end  up 
selling  unemployment  apples. 

MONKEY  BUSINESS  IN 

AFRICA 

Sennett-Educational 

A   roaring   burlesque   of   all    the   "darkest 

Africa"  pictures  of  recent  date.    Mack  Sennett, 

the  old  maestro,  gives  you  a  laugh  a  minute  as 

he   takes  Andy  Clyde,   Frank   Eastman  and 

Marjorie   Beebe   on   location   into   the   "I'm 

Gagging  Country!"    One  of  the  best  comedies 

of  the  month.    Don't  miss  it. 

SPLASH 
M-G-M 
A  lively  sport  short,  made  by  a  group  of 
aquatic  stars  who  hold  important  amateur 
titles.  Slow  motion  sequences  of  the  high 
dives  are  instructive,  and  trick  photography, 
aided  by  clever  synchronized  talk,  adds  humor. 
The  real  "splash"  is  the  finale. 

FOOLISH  FORTIES 

Gayety-Educalional 
That  grand  laugh-provoker,  Ford  Sterling, 
proves  how  very  foolish  your  forties  can  be  if 
you  are  led  on  by  a  scheming  blonde.  June 
MacCloy  is  the  beautiful  blonde  interest.  She 
decoys  Ford  into  a  decidedly  compromising 
situation  which  he  finds  harder  to  laugh  off 
than  the  audience  does. 


HOW  I  PL  A  Y  GOLF 

Warners-  Vitaphone 
The  third  and  fourth  in  the  Bobby  Jones 
series  of  twelve  shorts,  continue  the  same  high 
standard  of  comedy  and  instruction  established 
in  the  first  two.  The  latest  deal  with  the  nib- 
lick and  the  mashie-niblick.  In  the  latter,  Leon 
Errol  and  his  rubber  legs  inspire  some  hilarious 
moments.    Don't  miss  these,  golfer  or  not. 

A   COLLEGE  RACKET 

Vanity-Educational 
This  rollicking  bit  has  Glenn  Tryon  getting 
himself  badly  embroiled  with  thugs — all  be- 
cause of  a  gray  derby  he  happens  to  wear. 
College  capers  with  a  glowering  dean,  banned 
night  club  dive — and,  of  course,  a  heroine  for 
whose  love  Glenn  dares  all.  Several  good 
laughs. 

TOMBSTONES 

Shattuck 
This  demonstrates  that  Europe  has  no 
monopoly  on  that  brand  of  "arty"pictures  which 
confine  themselves  to  horror.  Two  men  die, 
the  heroine  suffers  the  fate  "worse  than 
death,"  and  the  other  fellow  feels  terribly  bad 
about  it.    Artistic,  perhaps,  but  .  .  .! 

THE  LURE  OF  HOLLYWOOD 

Ideal-Educatio  n  al 
This  picture  is  a  comedy  but  it  gives  you  a 
real  tip  that  getting  a  job  in  the  movies  isn't 
all  roses  and  fan  mail.  Three  pretty  girls  have 
their  troubles.  Bryant  Washburn,  an  old 
friend,  makes  a  brief  bow  as  the  dashing 
matinee  idol.  A  throwback  to  the  old  pie- 
slinging  days  is  a  bit  regrettable.  Some  good 
laughs  in  spite  of  that,  however. 

THE  POOR  FISH 

Sennett-Educational 
Another  of  the  one-reel  "  Sennettcolor" 
features.  There's  not  much  of  a  plot — some- 
thing about  a  man  who  tells  his  wife  he's  going 
fishing,  but  doesn't,  and  then  tries  to  make  the 
story  good.  But  there  are  some  grand  photo- 
graphic shots. 


IT    ISN'T 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 

news 


91 


NOW 


il'sb 


ecommg  a 


habit! 


■ 


Packers  Scalptone  .  .  the  new  "individual" 
treatment    for    your    kind    of    nair   .   .   . 


It  was  news,  too — a  hair  tonic  which 
could  actually  be  modified  to  suit  just 
your  kind  of  hair !  And  its  instant  popu- 
larity isn't  really  surprising;  for 
Packer's  Scalptone  is  such  a  practical, 
sensible  way  to  give  hair  the  individual 
treatment  which  means  hair-beauty. 

Of  course  it's  just  as  impossible  for 
hair  to  be  lovely  with  a  treatment  which 
doesn't  suit  its  particular  needs  as  it  is 
for  you  to  look  your  best  in  a  dress 
which  doesn't  fit.  It  may  be  a  good 
treatment — or  a  good  dress;  but  it  just 
doesn't  fit!  Now,  with  Packer's  Scalp- 
tone,  this  wonderful  new  preparation 
made  from  a  dermatologist's  formula, 
it's  possible  for  you  to  give  yourself 
correct  scientific  treatments  at  home — 
treatments  which  are  correct  for  just 
your  kind  of  hair! 

In  the  neck  of  every  bottle  of  Scalp- 
tone  is  a  little  tube  of  pure  vegetable 
oil,  recommended  for  dry  scalps.  If 
your  hair  is  dry,  you  simply  add  as 
much  oil  to  the  Scalptone  as  your 
particular  scalp  needs — there  are 
simple,  clear  directions  to  guide  you. 
If  your  scalp  is  oily,  you  massage  with 
Scalptone    just    as    it    comes    in    the 


Because  of  this  patent  oil- 
tube  you  can  make  your  own 
prescription  lor  your  own  hair 

PACKER'S      Scalptone 

Made  by  the  Makers  01  Packer's  Tar  Soap 

For    men,    loo:    an    aid    fo    scalp-nealtn 


bottle;  for  Scalptone  without  the  oil 
is  an  astringent  tonic. 

Massage  Scalptone  daily  into  your 
scalp.  It  brings  rich  blood  up  to  nour- 
ish the  hair  roots;  it  tones  up  the  thou- 
sands of  tiny  scalp  muscles;  it  stimu- 
lates hair  growth.  Used  regularly,  its 
antiseptic  properties  will  prevent  dan- 
druff— which  so  often  means  loss  of 
hair.  Scalptone  is  the  modern,  sound, 
scientific  way  to  scalp-health  and 
hair-beauty. 

And  here's  the  purely  feminine  last 
word — I've  discovered  that  hair  which 
is  regularly  treated  with  Scalptone  is 
easier  to  wave — and  the  wave  stays  in 
longer!  Your  druggist  doubtless  has 
Scalptone  by  now.  If  not,  send  me  his 
name  and  address  and  I'll  try  to  see 
that  he  carries  it  for  you. 

JEAN  CARROLL 


Home  Treatments  for  Hair  Beauty 


oily  hair: 

Just  as  often  as  your  hair  gets 
oily,  even  if  it's  only  a  few  days 
since  your  last  shampoo,  sham- 
poo again  witli  Packer's  Pine  Tar 
Shampoo.  This  shampoo  is  made 
especially  for  oily  hair;  it  will 
leave  your  hair  soft  and  fluffy. 
Then  massage  daily  with  Scalp- 
tone, the  wonderful  new  Packer 
tonic  which  each  user  can  modify 
to  suit  just  her  hair.  If  your  hair 
is  very  oily,  Scalptone  can  be  an 
astringent  tonic  (see  explanation 
above).  It  will  help  restore  the 
oil  glands  to  normal. 

dry  hair: 

Shampoo  every  two  weeks  regu- 
larly with  Packer's  Olive  Oil 
Shampoo.    This  olive  oil  sham- 


poo is  made  especially  for  dry 
hair.  It  contains  soothing,  soften- 
ing glycerine  and  leaves  your  hair 
softer,  easier  to  manage.  Each 
day  apply  Scalptone  with  good 
vigorous  massage.  Scalptone  is 
the  new  Packer  tonic,  the  first 
tonic  I  ever  heard  of  that  you  can 
modify  to  suit  just  your  hair. 
Scalptone,  modified  according  to 
the  very  simple  directions  on  the 
bottle,  will  supply  the  natural  oil 
your  hair  lacks. 

dandruff: 

For  years  Packer's  Tar  Soap  has 
been  the  standard  treatment  for 
dandruff,  and  if  you'll  start  with 
four  ( la ily  shampoos  with  Packer's 
Tar  Soap,  you'll  see  for  yourself 
how  much  dandruff  germs  hate 


pine  tar.  After  these  four  sham- 
poos, shampoo  every  three  or  four 
days,  then  once  a  week. 

Along  with  Tar  Soap  sham- 
poos, use  Scalptone — the  mar- 
velous new  tonic  which  you  can 
modify  to  suit  just  your  hair.  If 
your  hair  is  dry,  read  the  easy 


directions  which  come  with  the 
Scalptone  bottle.  Then  you  can 
make  up  a  simple  prescription  to 
help  you  remedy  ovcr-dryness. 
If  your  hair  is  oily,  you  will  use 
Scalptone  in  an  astringent  form. 
You'll  find  Scalptone  a  great  help 
for  your  dandruff.  Its  antiseptic 
qualities  arc  very  discouraging  to 
dandruff  germs. 

LET    ME    SEND    YOU 
SAMPLES 

For  lOr:  in  coin  I'll  be  glad  to  send 
you  a  sample  of  either  of  the  two 
PACKER  Liquid  Shampoos  or 
the  Tar  Soap.  For  25*  I  will  send 
you  samples  of  all  three.  Address 
Jean  Carroll,  The  Packer  Mfg. 
Co..  Inc.,  Dept.  16-H,  101  West 
31st  Street,  New  York. 

If  you  want  a  full-size  bottle  of 
Scalptone,  enclose  $1.00  with 
your  note. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


FEEL  BETTER 

IXKWl  uouna£/i 


YOUR  looks,  your  skin,  your  mental 
brightness,  your  charm  depend  very 
much  upon  your  internal  cleanliness! 

Many  a  woman,  potentially  beautiful, 
does  herself  the  injustice  of  being  down- 
right plain.  Many  a  skin  looks  sallow  be- 
cause it  is  surfeited  with  poisons  that  the 
body  has  failed  to  remove.  Thousands  lack 
the  life  and  vigor  that  intestinal  cleanli- 
ness brings  naturally  to  some  lucky  souls. 

Be  clean  internally — unless  you  do  so,  all 
beauty  treatments  fail.  And  there  is  no 
method  so  effective,  so  pleasant  as  the 
saline  one,  which  Sal  Hepatica  offers. 

In  Europe  men  and  women  travel  thou- 
sands of  miles  to  benefit  by  the  "saline 
cure."  And  Sal  Hepatica  is  the  efficient 
American  equivalent  of  the  famous  Euro- 
pean spas.  By  eliminating  constipation,  it 
helps  complexions,  combats  colds,  and  frees 
the  body  of  poisons  that  cloud  your  skin, 
hurt  your  charm,  and  kill  your  alertness. 

Taken  before   breakfast,  it   is  prompt, 
thorough   but  gentle  in 
its  action.   Get  a  bottle 
of  Sal  Hepatica  today. 

Write  Bristol-Myers  Co., 
Dept.  G-81,  71  West  St., 
New  York  City,  for  a  free 
booklet, "To  Clarice  in  Quest 
of  Her  Youth." 

SAL    HEPATICA 


Screen    Memories    From    Photoplay 

IS  Years  Ago 


Bessie 
Love 


CCREEN  press-agents 
'-'had  just  discovered  a 
couple  of  new  words,  "col- 
ossal" and  "spectacular." 
Both  were  applied  to  "The 
Daughter  of  the  Gods,"  a 
super  -  sea  -  super  -  special, 
starring  Miss  Annette 
Kellerman.  She  dipped 
and  plunged  her  way 
through  the  picture, 
adorned  with  what  our  reviewer  called  "an 
overplus  of  artificial  hair."  Could  it  be  that  he 
was  starting  a  movement  for  bob-haired  mer- 
maids? 

Jane  and  Katherine  Lee  were  also  in  it,  as 
water-sprites.  Altogether,  it  was  considered 
very  g-r-r-rand,  back  in  those  dear,  dim,  dead 
days  of  the  screen's  romper  age. 

Bessie  Love  was  hailed  as  the  biggest  screen 
find  of  the  year.  She  was  just  seventeen — and 
had  been  discovered  by  D.  W.  Griffith. 

Three  pages  of  pictures  showed  Ethel 
Clayton  in  her  Riverside  Drive  apartment,  and 
another  page  was  taken  up  with  those  happy 


romancers,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lou  Tellegen 
(Geraldine  Farrar)  on  their  way  back  to 
California. 

"Please  Let  Me  Be  Bad,"  lamented  House 
Peters,  who  protested  that  he  always  had  to  be 
the  hero,  when,  really,  he  sometimes  wanted  to 
be  a  villain. 

In  the  gallery  were  pictures  of  Muriel 
Ostriche,  Wallace  Reid,  Edna  Purviance, 
Francis  X.  Bushman,  Florence  La  Badie,  Anita 
Stewart,  Lottie  Pickford  and  Viola  Dana. 

Pictures  reviewed  included  "Civilization," 
with  Howard  Hickman;  "The  Fall  of  a 
Nation,"  "Ramona,"  and  "Macbeth,"  with 
Sir  Herbert  Tree  and  Constance  Collier. 

Cal  York  items:  Lewis  J.  Cody  has  left  Selig 
to  join  Mabel  Normand's  company.  .  .  . 
Charlie  Chaplin  and  brother  Syd,  who  has 
handled  all  of  Charlie's  business  affairs  since  he 
left  the  S75-a-week  class,  have  parted.  Syd 
will  head  his  own  company.  .  .  .  Kathlyn  Wil- 
liams became  Mrs.  Charles  F.  Eyton  recently. 
.  .  .  Marc  McDermott  is  making  his  first 
picture  for  Vitagraph.  .  .  .  Wallace  Beery  is 
now  directing  for  Universal. 


10  Years  Ago 


m 


Alia 
Nazimova 


ME.  ALLA  NAZIM- 
OVA had  just  severed 
herconnection  with  Metro 
and  we  published  an  open 
letter  to  her,  beseeching, 
begging  and  imploring  her 
to  stop  making  the  awful 
pictures  she  had  been 
turning  out  and  give  us 
"such  flashes  of  dynamic, 
emotional  triumph  as  the 
death  scene  in  'Camille,'  "  or  a  dash  of  "the 
incomparable    artiste"    who    displayed    such 
"splendid  genius"  in  "A  Doll's  House"  and 
"HeddaGabler.'! 
Heigh,  ho!    It  must  have  been  the  weather. 
Two  of  Ralph  Barton's  inimitable  caricatures 
revealed  the  brothers  De  Mille — William  C. 
and  Cecil  B. — who,  Mr.  Barton  said,  had  done 
more  for  motion  pictures  and  riding  breeches 
than  any  other  family  in  the  business. 

We   announced    the    engagement    of   Jack 
Gilbert  and  Leatrice  Joy. 

Adele   Rowland,    who    was    Mrs.    Conway 
Tearle,  told  how  it  felt  "Being  a  Screen  Idol's 


Wife."  As  she  told  it,  it  didn't  sound  any 
worse  than  being  anybody  else's  wife — no 
worse,  and  no  better! 

And  "Hello,  Mabel!"  titled  an  article  wel- 
coming Mabel  Normand  back  to  the  studios 
after  a  year  spent  in  the  East  regaining  her 
health.    She  had  started  work  on  "Molly  O." 

In  the  gallery  were  pictures  of  Kathryn 
Perry,  Olive  Tell,  Billie  Dove,  Julanne  John- 
ston and  Gladys  Leslie. 

Pictures  reviewed  included  "Through  the 
Back  Door,"  with  Mary  Pickford;  "Two 
Weeks  With  Pay,"  with  Bebe  Daniels;  "Boys 
Will  Be  Boys,"  with  Will  Rogers;  "The  Lost 
Romance,"  with  Conrad  Nagel  and  Lois 
Wilson,  and  "The  Home  Stretch,"  with 
Douglas  MacLean. 

Cal  York  items:  Doug  Fairbanks  and  Mary 
Pickford  deny  they  expect  an  heir.  .  .  .  Mar- 
guerite de  la  Motte  and  Mitchell  Lyson,  art 
director  for  William  De  Mille,  are  engaged. 
.  .  .  Harry  Carey,  Jr.,  arrived  last  month. 
.  .  .  Wallace  Reid  and  Elsie  Ferguson  are 
going  to  make  "Peter  Ibbetson."  .  .  .  Flor- 
ence Vidor  is  now  a  star. 


5  Years  Ago 


H(. 


Rudolph 
Valentino 


OLLYWOOD  was  all 
a-gaga  over  the  ro- 
mancing of  Rudy  Valen- 
tino and  Pola  Negri.  Cal 
York  gave  our  readers  the 
flaming  details,  reporting 
that  "they  insist  on  being 
put  next  to  each  other  at 
dinner  parties  and  then 
ignore  everybody  else." 
"And  if  my  eyes  don't 
deceive  me,"  added  Cal,  "they  hold  hands 
under  the  tablecloth." 

"They  sure  have  it  bad,"  he  concluded. 

In  sad  contrast  to  this  was  a  scene  taking 

place  in  a  courtroom.  We  reported  it  verbatim. 

"Is  there  any  hope  of  a  reconciliation?" 

asked  the  judge.     "None,"  said  the  girl.     "I 

don't  love  him  any  more." 

And  with  those  words  the  romance  of  Jack 
Gilbert  and  Leatrice  Joy  ended  in  divorce. 

James  Cruze  was  preparing  to  recreate  the 
early  glory  of  the  United  States  on  the  seas 
with  "Old  Ironsides."  Two  pages  of  pictures 
showed  the  reproduction  of  the  frigate  U.  S.  S. 


Constitution,  the  Tripolitan  fort,  and  special 
camera  barges. 

Canon  Chase,  warmed  up  in  a  long  inter- 
view, told  just  how  immoral  the  movies  were, 
and  Harold  (Red)  Grange,  the  Galloping  Ghost 
of  the  Gridiron,  was  making  "The  Half -Back." 

Pictures  in  the  gallery  showed  Lefty  Flynn 
and  Viola  Dana,  smiling  after  a  year  of  happy 
married  life;  Buster  Collier,  Warner  Baxter, 
Laura  La  Plante,  Pauline  Frederick  and 
Tommy  Meighan. 

Pictures  reviewed  were:  "Say  It  Again," 
with  Richard  Dix  and  Alyce  Mills;  "The  Devil 
Horse,"  with  Rex,  King  of  Horses;  "Silence," 
with  H.  B.  Warner;  "Sparrows,"  with  Mary 
Pickford;  "Ella  Cinders,"  with  Colleen  Moore, 
and  "Paris,"  with  Joan  Crawford  and  Charles 
Ray. 

Cal  York  items:  All  Hollywood  is  speculat- 
ing about  the  romance  of  Joan  Crawford  and 
Michael  Cudahy,  millionaire  meat  packer's 
son.  .  .  .  Jack  Pickford  has  confirmed  the 
report  of  a  separation  from  his  wife,  Marilyn 
Miller.  .  .  .  Norma  Shearer  is  taking  a  rest 
at  a  milk  sanitarium. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


93 


QUICK      RELIEF     FOR 

SUNBURN    tooi 

Absorbine  Jr.  soothes  and 
cools  instantly;  takes  out  sore- 
ness and  inflammation;  not 
greasy;  won't  stain;  leaves 
a  healthy  tan 


THEY     CALL     IT 

ATHLETES  FOOT 

BUT    IT    ISN'T    A 
JOKING    MATTER 


#  Many  a  man  and  woman  has  paid  large 
doctor  bills  and  limped  around  for  weeks 
because  of  an  infection  that  started  with 
a  slight  itching  sensation  between  the  toes. 
They  made  the  mistake  of  not  taking 
more  seriously  this  common  symptom*  of 
"Athlete's  Foot."  Neglected,  the  skin  be- 
tween the  toes  soon  became  unwholesomely 
moist.  It  cracked — then  blistered,  perhaps 
turned  red,  peeled  and  finally  became  so 
raw  as  to  cause  pain  when  shoes  were  worn. 

It's  a  real  infection;  don't 
YOU  take  chances 

Nine  times  out  of  ten  this  infection,  popu- 
larly called  "Athlete's  Foot,"  comes  from  a 
tiny  parasite  known  as  tinea  trichophyton, 

♦WATCH  FOR  THESE  DISTRESS  SIGNALS 
THAT  WARN  OF  "ATHLETE'S  FOOT" 

Though  "Athlete's  Foot"  is  caused  by  the  germ — 
tinea  trichophyton — its  early  stages  manifest  them- 
selves in  several  different  ways,  usually  between 
the  toes — sometimes  by  redness,  sometimes  by  skin- 
cracks,  often  by  tiny  itching  blisters.  The  skin  may 
turn  white,  thick  and  moist  or  it  may  develop  dry- 
ness with  little  scales.  Any  one  oj  these  calls  for  tm- 
mediate  treatment!  If  the  case  appears  aggravated 
•nd  does  not  readily  yield  to  Absorbine  Jr.,  consult 
your  doctor  without  delay. 


which  health  authorities  estimate  to  have 
preyed  on  at  least  half  the  adult  popula- 
tion at  some  time  in  life. 

Be  on  your  guard;  you  may  be  the  next 
victim  because  you  are  bound  to  encounter 
tinea  trichophyton  wherever  you  go.  It 
swarms  by  the  billions  on  the  edges  of 
swimming  pools,  on  shower  bath  floors, 
locker-  and  dressing-room  floors,  in  bath- 
houses, beach  walks,  gyms — even  in  your 
own  spotless  bathroom. 

Use  Absorbine  Jr.  to  kill  the 
germ  of  "Athlete's  Foot" 

Strange  to  say,  the  tinea  trichophyton  germ 
thrives  on  soap  and  water.  You  can't  wash 
it  away,  when  once  it  becomes  embedded 
in  the  toes.  This  parasite  is  so  hardy,  in 
fact,  that  socks  must  be  boiled  fifteen 
minutes  to  kill  it. 

You  can,  however,  douse  Absorbine  Jr. 
on  your  feet,  rub- 
bing it  well  between 
the  toes,  morning 
and  night  and  after 
every  bath.  For  lab- 
oratory tests  have 
demonstrated  that 
Absorbine  Jr.  kills 


tinea  trichophyton  quickly  when  it  reaches 
the  parasite.  Clinical  tests  have  also  shown 
its  effectiveness. 

Look  at  your  feet  tonight 

You  may  have  the  first  symptoms*  of 
"Athlete's  Foot"  without  knowing  it  until 
you  examine  the  skin  between  your  toes. 
At  the  slightest  sign,  douse  on  Absorbine 
Jr.  Then  keep  on  using  it,  because  "Athlete's 
Foot"  is  a  persistent  infection  and  can 
keep  coming  back  time  after  time. 

Absorbine  Jr.  has  been  so  effective  that 
substitutes  are  sometimes  offered.  Don't 
expect  relief  from  a  "just  as  good."  There 
is  nothing  else  like  Absorbine  Jr.  At  drug 
stores,  $1.25  a  bottle.  For 
a  free  sample  write  W.  F. 
Young,  Inc., 476  Lyman  St., 
Springfield,  Massachusetts. 
In  Canada:  Lyman  Building, 
Montreal. 


ABSORBINE   JR. 

for  years  has  relieved  sore 
muscles,  muscular  aches,  bruises, 
burns,  cuts,  sprains,  abrasions 


94 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


A  REPULSIVE 
JOB 

washing  dirty 
handkerchiefs 


Use  KLEENEX 
instead 

AT  LAST  a  new  type  handkerchief 
-tVbanishes  forever  one  of  the  messiest 
jobs  in  a  woman's  life — the  job  of  wash- 
ing dirty  handkerchiefs. 

Millions  are  turning  to  Kleenex — the 
soft,  delicate  tissue  you  use  once  and 
destroy. 

This  cleanly  practice  not  only  saves 
washing.  It  protects  you  from  self-infec- 
tion. Germs  are  destroyed  instantly,  in- 
stead of  being  carried  back  to  your  face. 

Many  household  uses 
Kleenex   is    a   soft,   immaculate,    super- 
absorbent    tissue    that   has   a    score   of 
daily  uses. 

Cleansing  creams  should  always  be  re- 
moved with  Kleenex 
to  take  away  every 
trace  of  cream  and 
dirt.  Mothers  find 
Kleenex  wonderful  in 
caring  for  babies. 
Motorists  like  to  keep 
a  package  handy  in 
the  automobile. 

Kleenex  is  sold  „ayFever victims 
everywhere,  at  drug,    Vou>n  appreciate  the 

dry  goods  and  de-  dry  softness  and  ab- 
partment  Stores.  It  sorbency  of  Kleenex. 
r  .  ,  It  is  impossible  to  de- 
COmeS  in  a  convenient  scribe  the  greater  com- 
package,  from  which  tort  Kleenex  affords. 
.  •  .  Do  not  put  up  with 
tlSSUeSCan  be  re-  damp,  irritating  hand- 
moved  with  One  hand,  kerchiefs  another  day. 

KLEENEX  tissue's 


Kleenex  Company, 
Lake  Michigan  Bldg., 
Chicago,   111. 

Please  send  free  trial 
supply  of  Kleenex. 

Name 

Street - - - 

City 


PH-8 


State.. 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Richard  Arlen 
George  Bancroft 
Carman  Barnes 
Clara  Bow 
Martin  Burton 
Ruth  Chatterton 
June  Collyer 
Juliette  Compton 
Jackie  Coogan 
Robert  Coogan 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlcne  Dietrich 
Leon  Errol 
Stuart  Erwin 
Stanley  Fields 


Skeets  Gallagher 
Mitzi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Marcia  Manners 
Cyril  Maude 
Rosita  Moreno 
Jack  Oakie 
Guy  Oliver 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
Charles  Rogers 
Lilyan  Tashman 
Regis  Toomey 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Luana  Alcaniz 
Michael  Bartlett 
Warner  Baxter 
Joan  Bennett 
Humphrey  Bogart 
El  Brendel 
Lucile  Browne 
Robert  Burns 
Joan  Castle 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Joyce  Compton 
Roxanne  Curtis 
Donald  Dillaway 
Fifi  Dorsay 
Charles  Farrell 
John  Garrick 
Janet  Gaynor 
C.  Henry  Gordon 
Louise  Huntington 
Warren  Hymer 
Keating  Sisters 
Richard  Keene 
Jane  Keith 
Nancy  Kelly 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
James  Kirk  wood 
Elissa  Landi 


Dixie  Lee 
Marion  Lessing 
George  Lewis  | 
Edmund  Lowe 
Claire  Luce 
Leslie  May 
Jeanette  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 
Frances  McCoy 
Victor  McLaglen 
Una  Merkel 
Tom  Mix 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Lois  Moran 
J.  Harold  Murray 
George  O'Brien 
Maureen  O'SulIivan 
Gaylord  Pendleton 
Nat  Pendleton 
Rosalie  Rae 
Will  Rogers 
David  Rollins 
John  Swor 
Lee  Tracy 
Spencer  Tracy 
Ruth  Warren 
John  Wayne 
Marjorie  White 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


In  Canada  address:  330  Bay  St.,  Toronto,  Ont. 


Robert  Ames 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Evelyn  Brent 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Lita  Chevret 
Ricardo  Cortez 
Lily  Damita 
John  Darrow 
Claudia  Dell 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Jill  Esmond 
Noel  Francis 
Roberta  Gale 
John  Halliday 


Hugh  Herbert 
Rochelle  Hudson 
Kitty  Kelly 
Geoffrey  Kerr 
Rita  La  Roy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Joel  McCrea 
Addie  McPhail 
Ken  Murray 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Lowell  Sherman 
Ned  Sparks 
Bert  Wheeler 
Hope  Williams 
Robert  Woolsey 


Warner  Bros.  Studios,  5842  Sunset  Blvd. 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Noah  Beery 
Joan  Blondell 
Joe  E.  Brown 
Anthony  Bushell 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Bebe  Daniels 
Irene  Delroy 
Robert  Elliott 
Kay  Francis 


Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Allan  Lane 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
David  Manners 
Marian  Marsh 
Edward  Morgan 
William  Powell 
Barbara  Weeks 
Jack  Whiting 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 

Ave. 


Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ina  Claire 
Ronald  Colman 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 


Al  Jolson 
Evelyn  Laye 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St. 


Richard  Cromwell 
Constance  Cummings 
Ralph  Graves 
Jack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Margaret  Livingston 


Bert  Lytell 
Dorothy  Revier 

Dorothy  Sebastian 
Miriam  Seegar 
Barbara  Stanwyck 


Culver  City,  Calif. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


William  Bakewell 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Edwina  Booth 
Lenore  Bushman 
John  Mack  Brown 
Harry  Carey 
Joan  Crawford 
Jose  Crespo 
Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Douglass 
Marie  Dressier 
Cliff  Edwards 
Julia  Faye 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
William  Haines 
Neil  Hamilton 
Hedda  Hopper 
Lottice  Howell 
Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Arnold  Korff 


Andre  Luguet 
Ellen  McCarthy 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Robert  Montgomery 
Grace  Moore 
Polly  Moran 
Catherine  Moylan 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Edward  Nugent 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita  Page 
Marie  Prevost 
Marjorie  Rambeau 
Duncan  Renaldo 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Raquel  Torres 
Lester  Vail 


RKO-Pathe  Studios 


Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  and  Russell 
Gleason 


Ann  Harding 
Eddie  Quillan 
Helen  Twelvetrees 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 
Tliclma  Todd 


Universal  City,  Calif. 
Universal  Studios 


Margaret  Adams 
Lew  Ayres 
John  Boles 
Hoot  Gibson 
Bela  Lugosi 


Charles  Murray 
George  Sidney 
Slim  Summerville 
Genevieve  Tobin 
John  Wray 


Burbank,  Calif. 
First  National  Studios 


Richard  Barthelmess 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Joe  Frisco 
Walter  Huston 
Fred  Koliler 
Dorothy  Mackaill 


Marilyn  Miller 
Ona  Munson 
Dorothy  Peterson 
James  Rennie 
Otis  Skinner 
Loretta  Young 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Tallulah  Bankhead 
Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Claudette  Colbert 
Norman  Foster 
Miriam  Hopkins 


Frcdric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Ginger  Rogers 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrett 
Ed  Wynn 


Hollywood,  Calif. 


Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire,  1212  Gower  St. 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd,  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy,  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Pat  O'Malley,  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St. 
Ruth  Roland,  3828  Wilsliire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Tavlor,  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray.  22  E.  60th  St.,  New  York 
William  S.  Hart,  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 
Patsv    Ruth    Miller,   808    Crescent    Drive,    Beverly 
Hills.  Calif.  ; 

George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


95 


the  BIG  SHOWS ! 


*~ 


"  -  ..„..  vo|canic  dramatic 

. .  ADISE"    .  •  """°rd  Wa,,°n  Ids  In  the  «««• 

-,THE  BIRO  Of  PARAWSe    ..  ^  R,0  „„„  thousands 

.poctacl.  «n  <■«  '«  s-,en,IOr-  ~  MllUON"...G«-»  -»««>'  •" 

.„  UURSrS  "SYMPHONY  Of  SIX  «"-»°        rlsing  <rom  ,„»■ 
FANNIE  HURSTS    »  tne  soul  a« a  city. ••*»■"  „,  ,„„,„„ 

"Hum0reSqU^:::e"Xvoi.e....«8-r.n.«..p,...- 

'"9  "FRONTIER".  -J 

Onru.hlng   Ame^ca         ,,. 
ScVa^D^"^ 

"MIRACLE  CITlT  •  ; 

the  Glome" . .  •  *  „Wd  t. 
rellTn  Sensed-.  Gmss 
Houses! 

"NVARCHETA"    •    •    • 

^ArdOUond.;e„eO-r 


COMING  SOON ! 

-ARE  THESE  OUR  CHILDREN?" 

—  who  mod* 


r;  no»»" 

.•TRAVELING  HUSBANDS^ 

A,„„,...:r-.''-e»v."nr. 

;:;rHr::b'rcU»-..«.-'"«'- 

"SPHINX  HAS  SPOKEN" 

With  Uly  Dcmlto,  Aao  P 
Eric  Von  Strohelm. 


Tl  IKJC    IKJ  I    on  *"*  "R-  K.  O.  THEATRE  OF  THE  AIR  "  over  N. 
I  UINL   \V\  \    Coast  Network  EVERY  FRIDAY  NIGHT,  10:30  PM,  N 


B.  C.  Coast  to 
ew  York  Time. 


96 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


BATHS 


For  more  enjoyable  evenings 

Here  is  a  bath  to  relieve  after-work  weariness. 
Especially  helpful  in  summer.  Starts  warm, 
ends  cold  (see  booklet).  Makes  you  look  better, 
feel  better. 


An  early  morning  eye-opener 

The  "wake-up  bath"  is  particularly  refreshing 
after  sultry  summer  nights.  Similar  to  the  after- 
work  bath  above,  see  page  6  of  booklet  below. 


®M 


ter  strenuous  exercise 

Depend  on  thi3  one  throughout  the  year !  For, 
a3  our  free  booklet  explains,  hot  water  relaxes 
muscles,  relieves  fatigue,  prevents  soreness. 


This  interesting  book  is  FREE  I 

The  summertime  baths  above  are  just  three  of 
the  many  helpful  suggestions  contained  in  The 
Book  About  Baths.  Send  for  your  copy  of  this 
unusual  and  interesting  booklet.  It  is  free. 

CLEANLI NESS 
INSTITUTE 

Established  to  promote  public  welfare 
by  teaching  the  value  of  cleanliness 


CLEANLINESS  INSTITUTE.  Dept.  N8, 
45  East  17th  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  free  of  all  cost,  "The  Book  About 
Baths". 
Name . 


Street.. 
City.... 


State 


Girls'  Problems 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  16  ] 


While  perfume  may  seem  a  luxury,  it  is  really 
an  essential.  You  will  be  surprised  what  a 
stimulant  to  poise  and  smartness,  the  dabbing 
on  of  a  bit  of  perfume  can  give  you.  It  can 
give  you  a  certain  assurance  that  is  invaluable. 
It  is  the  distilled  essence  of  the  beauty  that 
every  girl  desires. 

Not  only  are  perfumes  delightful  to  the  nose 
— but  to  the  eye  as  well  these  days!  Never 
have  bottles  been  so  fascinating.  Your  dress- 
ing table  can  have  everything  from  amusing 
glass  birds  to  beautifully  designed  glass  bottles 
as  perfume  holders.  Don't  pick  a  perfume  for 
its  container,  however!  There  are  purse  per- 
fume flacons  that  help  you  to  keep  the  fra- 
grance fresh  through  a  whole  day  or  evening. 
There  are  perfume  traveling  kits.  And  clever 
boxes  designed  to  hold  several  of  your  favorite 
scents. 

It  is  considered  quite  the  smart  thing  to  suit 
your  perfume  to  your  moods,  and  costumes. 
For  instance,  have  one  for  sports,  another  for 
afternoon  costumes,  and  still  another  for  eve- 
ning. Thus  you  can  be  many  persons  in 
one! 

Some  of  the  stars  keep  their  perfumes  in 
their  boudoir  on  a  little  table  or  in  a  chest. 
Bebe  Daniels  has  the  clever  arrangement  shown 
on  page  16.  It  gives  her  bottles  a  wonderful 
setting.  You  can  make  a  perfume  corner  in 
your  own  room,  it  adds  zest  to  buying  per- 
fumes if  you  think  how  charmingly  the  bottles 
may  be  displayed. 

I  failed  to  mention  in  discussing  the  types  of 
perfumes  you  should  choose,  that  you  can 
blend  your  own  if  you  don't  find  one  that  seems 
to  suit  you.  This  takes  rather  a  skilled  hand, 
however.  You  should  be  sure  that  you  know 
just  how  to  put  several  scents  together  so  that 
they  harmonize.  It  is  easy  to  make  a  mudd'e 
of  the  thing  so  that  the  result  has  practically 
little  or  no  significance.  There  are  shops  that 
will  do  it  for  you.  It  is  a  grand  idea  when  done 
well — it  makes  you  feel  that  there  isn't  another 
person  who  has  just  the  exact  fragrance  that 
you  have! 

Gay: 

Although  you  did  not  give  me  your  age,  I 
presume  that  you  are  between  seventeen  and 
twenty.  In  such  case,  you  are  slightly  under- 
weight.   You  should  weigh  about  134  pounds. 

Of  course,  many  girls  are  delighted  to  be 
thin,  but  I  think  it  would  be  a  good  idea  for  you 
to  try  to  make  up  the  needed  weight  this  Sum- 
mer. Especially  so,  if  you  are  planning  to  go 
away  to  school  in  the  fall. 

I  would  suggest  that  you  eat  plenty  of  fat- 
tening foods.  Cream  soups,  gravies,  potatoes, 
vegetables  served  with  cream  sauce,  cereals, 
puddings,  custards,  ice  cream,  cocoa  and 
chocolate  are  all  valuable  foods  for  putting  on 
weight.  Don't  neglect  to  eat  the  leafy  vege- 
tables and  fruits  that  everyone  needs  to  main- 
tain good  health  whether  stout  or  thin. 

Drink  plenty  of  water,  at  least  six  glasses 
daily.     Milk  is  a  food  and  a  good  habit  for 


those  who  want  to  gain.  It  is  valuable  for  its 
calcium  and  vitamins.  A  pint  of  milk  a  day  is 
good  to  begin  with;  later  when  drinking  it  has 
become  a  habit,  a  quart  is  better. 

Be  sure  to  get  plenty  of  rest  and  sleep.  Out- 
door exercise  is  essential,  but  the  less  strenuous 
forms  are  better  for  the  too-thin  person. 

Rita: 

The  foods  that  you  mentioned  contain  about 
seven  hundred  calories  in  all.  However,  I 
don't  believe  very  much  in  reducing  by 
calories.  I  think  it  takes  too  much  joy  out  of 
life.  The  best  guide  to  proper  foods  is  your 
own  common  sense.  No  one  needs  ever  to  tell 
you  that  you  are  over-indulging  in  sweets, 
pastries,  starches  and  fats. 

Evelyn  W. : 

It  would  seem  that  your  proportions  are 
quite  good  for  your  height  although  I  do  think 
that  you  could  afford  to  gain  a  little.  The  bony 
framework  of  the  body  varies  so  that  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  determine  your  exact  measurements  by 
your  description. 

If  you  wish  to  gain,  I  would  advise  that  you 
follow  the  regime  which  I  have  outlined  to 
Gay,  above. 

It  will  put  on  the  few  needed  pounds  witb 
the  greatest  ease. 

As  you  gain  weight,  you  will  find  that  the 
rest  of  your  body  gains  proportionately.  The 
following  exercise  will  help  to  develop  your 
legs: 

Stand  in  front  of  a  small  chair,  the  back  of 
which  does  not  reach  higher  than  your  hip 
joint.  Standing  erect,  raise  your  right  leg  and 
swing  it  outward  away  from  the  body,  then 
slowly  around  over  the  top  of  the  chair,  then 
back  and  into  position. 

Repeat  with  left  leg. 

At  the  beginning,  don't  do  this  exercise  more 
than  five  times,  gradually  increasing  it  to  ten 
times. 

Filomena  : 

I  think  you  are  exaggerating  the  importance 
of  having  a  good  figure  at  your  age.  You  are 
still  very  young  and  in  the  next  few  years  you 
will  probably  grow  so  rapidly  that  your  figure 
will  naturally  attain  the  right  proportions.  You 
may  even  want  to  be  gaining  weight  in  a  year 
or  so!    I  have  seen  that  happen  many  times. 

Don't  let  your  overweight  ruin  your  happi- 
ness. Go  out  with  your  friends.  I  am  sure  your 
friends  are  not  saying  unkind  things  about  you. 
You  are  just  over-sensitive.  So  many  young 
girls  lose  out  on  the  best  time  of  their  lives  just 
on  that  account.  So  don't  you  make  that 
foolish  mistake. 

Just  enjoy  yourself  as  much  as  you  can,  you 
will  discover  others  are  enjoying  you  just  as 
much. 

You  did  not  give  any  address  on  your  letter 
so  you  will  have  to  write  me  again  and  give  it, 
if  you  want  me  to  send  you  my  booklet  on 
reducing  and  menus. 


August  Birthdays 


August 
August 
August 
August 
August 
August 
August 
August 
August 
August 


2 — Myrna  Loy 
2 — Glenn  Tryon 
3 — Dolores  Del  Rio 
4 — Anita  Page 
9— Charles  Farrell 
9 — Dorothy  Jordan 
10 — Norma  Shearer 
1 1— Hobart  Bosworth 
12— Cecil  B.  De  Mille 
13 — Mary  Duncan 


August  13 — Charles  f ex-Buddy)  Rogers 
August  13 — Regis  Toomey 
August  17 — Winnie  Lightner 
August  19 — Eleanor  Boardman 
August  19 — June  Collyer 
August  19 — Kenneth  MacKenna 
August  19 — Colleen  Moore 
August  25 — George  Fawcett 
August  30 — Joan  Blondell 
August  31 — Fredric  March 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


97 


STARS  £  PHOTOPLAY 


250    BEAUTIFUL  REPRODUCTIONS  IN  ROTOGRAVURE    250 
WITH  A  BRIEF  BIOGRAPHY  BELOW  THE  PORTRAIT  OF  EACH  STAR 

This  de  luxe  edition  of  the  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay" 
represents  the  very  finest  collection  of  beautiful  art  por- 
traits of  screen  celebrities  ever  assembled  under  one  cover. 


Photoplay  Magazine's  close  per- 
sonal  contact  with  the  stars  of  the 
industry  has  enabled  us  to  procure 
not  only  the  latest  but  the  most 
attractive  portraits  of  all  the  screen 
favorites. 

Two  hundred  and  fifty  photo- 
graphs have  been  carefully  selected 
and  reproduced  by  xotogravure  proc 
ess.  This  process  retains  the  soft, 
deep  tones  and  highlights,  and  has 
resulted  in  exceptional  reproductions 
of  the  original  photographs. 

The  portraits,  for  convenient  reference,  have 
been  arranged  in  alphabetical  order  according  to 
the  names  of  the  stars,  and  below  each  portrait 
you  will  find  a  brief  biography  which  gives  a  clear 
and  comprehensive  sketch  of  the  star's  career,  in- 
eluding  such  information  as  weight,  height,  com' 
plexion,  age,  etc.  Just  the  type  of  information 
that  you  want. 

This  wonderful  collection  is  printed  on  a  choice 
grade  of  white  super  paper.  The  outside  measure' 
ment  of  the  book  is  7M  x  10^  inches,  and  the 


THIS  UNMATCHED 
EDITION  OF  THE 

STARS  of  THE 
PHOTOPLAY 

HANDSOMELY 
BOUND  IN  EMBOSSED 
RED  ART  FABRIKOID 
with  GOLD  LETTERING 
—WAS  $1.75  — NOW 

Only  $1.25 


size  of  each  individual  portrait  is 
5lA,  x  73^2  inches,  the  balance  of  the 
page  being  devoted  to  the  biographi' 
cal  sketch  of  the  particular  star 
featured  on  that  page. 

"Stars  of  the  Photoplay1'  will  be  of 
aid  in  helping  you  solve  the  $5,000 
Prize  Puzzle  Picture  Contest  that  is 
now  being  conducted  in  Photoplay. 

Write  for  your  copy  of  the 
"Stars  of  the  Photoplay"  now.  Use 
the  coupon  provided  below  for  your 
convenience. 


Stars  of  Photoplay,  Dept.  PH.  8-31,  Photoplay  Magazine, 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  III. 

Please  send  me  my  copy  of  "Stars  of  the  Photoplay," 
for  which  I  enclose  QCheck  □Money  order  for  $1.25- 
Send  to  the  following  address: 


Hamc . 


Street . 


City. 


.State. 


98 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


TREAT  THAT  CORN  SAFELY 


Pretty  feet.., 

with  never  a  corn 


It's  more  than  a  matter  of  comfort . . . 
it's  a  matter  of  pride.  On  the  beach, 
at  the  pool,  pretty  feet  with  never  a 
corn — envied  by  every  woman,  ad- 
mired by  every  man — are  a  possession 
doubly  valuable. 

But  not  difficult  to  win.  Corns  are 
gently,  surely  removed  in  the  simplest, 
pleasantest  of  ways — by  using  Blue- 
jay  corn  plasters,  the  safe  treatment 
preferred  for  31  years  by  millions  of 
Americans.  Blue-jay  cushions  the 
tingling  spot,  eases  the  pressure  and 
chafing,  and  mildly  medicates  the 
corn  for  early  separation. 

Unlike  risky  paring  and  harsh 
"quick  cures,"  you  can  trust  Blue-jay, 
a  product  of  a  house  renowned  for  its 
surgical  dressings.  The  safe  treatment. 
At  all  drug  stores,  25c. 

BLUE  JAY 

CORN    PLASTERS 


BAUER  &  BLACK 


DIVISION 
Chicago 


OF     THE     KENDAIL    COMPANY 
.      New  York      .      .      Toronto 


Try  Blue-jay  Foot  Powder,  another  mem- 
ber of  the  famous  Blue-jay  family  of 
foot  comforts.  This  fine,  bland  powder 
cools  and  soothes  aching  feet,  relieves 
burning  and  perspiration.  Ask  your  drug- 
gist— or  send  10c  for  generous  sample  to 
Bauer&Black,2529S.FederalSt.,Chicago 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  88  ] 


T_I"OWARD  HUGHES  and  Billie  Dove  were 
-*-  -^-seeing  a  picture  in  the  projection  room  at 
United  Artists.  Hughes  is  hard  of  hearing,  so 
the  sounds  are  amplified  many  times  when 
pictures  are  shown  him. 

Billie  had  her  dog  with  her.  The  dog  started 
yelping  lustily  in  the  middle  of  the  picture. 
Billie  tried  to  quiet  him,  but  couldn't.  He  only 
barked  louder. 

Finally  she  turned  to  Hughes.  "Does  the 
dog  bother  you?  "  she  called  into  his  ear. 

"What  dog?"  asked  Mr.  Hughes,  looking  at 
the  screen  and  not  seeing  any  canines. 

A  CERTAIN  player  who  hasn't 
worked  for  yeahs  and  yeahs  has 
at  last  got  a  part  in  a  picture,  but  it  is 
a  well-known  fact  that  her  husband 
is  in  difficult  financial  circumstances 
so  is  it  any  wonder  that  she  said  to 
the  studio  cashier,  "Is  my  check 
ready?    I'll  just  take  it  now." 

"No,"  said  the  cashier,  "it  isn't 
through  yet,  but  I'll  be  glad  to  send 
it  special  to  your  home." 

"No,  no,"  pleaded  the  player, 
"don't  do  that — I  want  to  be  sure 
you  don't  send  it  to  my  home.  Just 
send  it  to  my  agent,  if  you  please." 

T^HERE  seems  to  be  some  sort  of  jinx  on  Mae 
*■  Marsh.  Snatched  from  obscurity  to  play  in 
"Over  the  Hill,"  she  believed  that  once  more 
her  career  was  well  under  way.  And  then 
there  was  trouble.  Director  Henry  King  was 
not  in  complete  sympathy  with  the  script  and 
he  gave  up  the  job.  The  entire  cast  was  dis- 
missed. 

"Over  the  Hill "  may  never  reach  the  talking 
screen. 

HARRISON  CARROLL  tells  the 
yarn  about  a  supervisor  who,  at- 
tempting to  put  his  associates  at  ease 
during  a  story  conference,  said,  "It's 
going  to  be  very  informal.  We'll  just 
think  out  loud." 

And  then  someone  in  the  rear  re- 
marked, ''Don't  be  a  sucker." 


A  BOUT  seven  years  ago,  Ernst  Lubitsch 
-*»-made  a  picture  called  "The  Marriage 
Circle."  The  five  leading  players  were  Monte 
Blue,  Creighton  Hale,  Harry  Meyers,  Marie 
Prevost  and  Florence  Vidor. 

All  five  have  appeared  in  the  divorce  courts 
since  then. 

Now  the  Hollywood  rumor  won't  be  downed 
that  Herr  Lubitsch  himself,  as  soon  as  he  gets 
his  final  decree,  will  marry  Ona  Munson — as 
soon  as  Ona  Munson  gets  her  final  decree  from 
Eddie  Buzzell. 

Yep,  "The  Marriage  Circle"  is  right. 

THIS  is  one  of  the  things  that 
could  happen  only  in. Holly  wood. 

During  the  height  of  the  traffic  rush 
two  cars  locked  wheels  at  the  corner 
of  Hollywood  Boulevard  and  Vine 
Street. 

A  man  leaned  out  of  one  and  said 
to  the  woman  driver  of  the  other: 

"Sorry.  I'm  hurrying  to  one  of  the 
studios.  My  name  is  King  Vidor  and 
I'm  rushing  to  a  luncheon  date  with 
my  wife,  Eleanor  Boardman." 

"You'd  better  hurry,  then,"  re- 
turned the  woman.  "My  husband's 
been  making  love  to  her  all  morning. 
I'm  Mrs.  Paul  Lukas,  and  I'm  in  a 
hurry,  too." 

PG.  WODEHOUSE,  the  English  humorist, 
♦  who  received  $104,000  for  a  year's  work 
for  M-G-M— $2,000  a  week— says:  "I  feel  as  if 
I  have  cheated  them.  The  way  Hollywood 
spends  money  dazes  me!"  .  .  .  Me  too, 
Percy.  .  .  .  Reri,  South  Sea  Island  star  of 
"Tabu,"  now  playing  in  the  "Follies,"  signs 
her  contracts  Anna  Chevalier.     It's  her  real 


A  STUDIO  queried  William  S.  Hart  and  J. 
■**■  Warren  Kerrigan,  both  in  retirement, 
about  returning  to  the  screen. 

Kerrigan  replied:  "Not  interested,  but  if 
part  is  good,  will  consider." 

Hart's  answer  was:  "Not  interested  in 
pictures." 


Don't  salute,  Wilbur!  The  gentleman  in  the  natty  shorts  holding  a  shinny 
stick  isn't  a  Boy  Scout.  It's  just  ole  Massa  Fairbanks  putting  it  there,  as  it 
were,  on  the  Manila  golf  links.  George  O'Brien,  recent  Philippines  visitor, 
also,  is  autographing  a  photo  for  Miss  Pacita  Roxas,  one  of  his  admirers 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


99 


IRENE  DUNNE  of  "  Cimarron"  fame  is  back 
in  Hollywood,  bubbling  over  with  gratitude 
because  Photoplay  told  the  secret  of  her  mar- 
riage. 

She  found  it  much  more  convenient  to  be 
openly  married  while  traveling  to  Florida  with 
her  husband! 

Incidentally,  good  luck  followed  her.  She 
won  four  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  at  roulette 
by  playing  her  "system"  in  the  Southern  state. 

""DEAUTY,"  said  Mary  Pickford 
-Din  a  recent  magazine  article, 
"comes  from  within.  It  isn't  a 
matter  of  lifting  the  face,  but  lifting 
the  thoughts."    Tweet,  tweet. 

EVERYONE  in  Hollywood  has  been  de- 
lighted to  see  Lois  Wilson  sign  a  five-year 
contract  with  Universal  as  a  result  of  her  work 
in  "Seed."  There's  one  girl  who's  generally 
liked.  Incidentally,  after  all  these  up  and 
down  years  in  the  industry,  she  is  at  last  to  be 
starred.  Her  first  will  be  "Marriage  Inter- 
lude," the  famous  book  by  Pirandello. 

THE  George  Fitzmaurices  were  so  excited 
about  the  birth  of  their  twins  that  Fitz, 
naturally  an  undemonstrative  man,  got  Carey 
Wilson  out  of  bed  at  four  o'clock  in  the  morn- 
ing to  report  the  news. 

"I  didn't  want  to  upset  Diane  by  telling  her 
so,  but  I  did  want  that  boy.  But  to  think  I  got 
both— " 

And  it  was  Mother  Diane  who  named  them. 
The  moment  the  doctor  told  her  about  them, 
she  whispered,  "Patricia  and  Michael." 

Two  weeks  later  little  Michael  died.  So 
Patricia  will  have  to  be  both  son  and  daughter. 

AL  JOLSON  wants  to  play  the  part 
of  De  Lawd  in  the  talkie  version 
of  "Green  Pastures,"  which  recalls 
the  story  they  told  about  him  just 
after  he  moved  into  one  of  the  loftiest 
of  New  York's  skyscraper  apart- 
ments. 

While  sitting  in  his  living  room, 
some  twenty-five  or  thirty  stories 
above  the  street,  a  thunderstorm 
suddenly  came  up.  The  lightning 
cracked  and  the  thunder  roared  all 
around  him.  He  seemed  to  be  right 
up  in  the  clouds,  and  was  scared 
stiff. 

As  the  storm  continued,  he  got 
down  on  his  knees. 

"Please,  Lord,"  he  said,  "make 
the  thunder  and  lightning  go  away. 
This  is  Al  Jolson  speaking !" 

JUST  to  show  where  title  writers'  minds  run, 
they  changed  the  stage  name  of  "The  Greeks 
Had  a  Word  for  It,"  so  that,  when  it  hits  the 
screen,  it'll  be  "The  Greeks  Had  a  Name  for 
Them." 

Ho,  hum.  .  .  . 

CVEN  the  kids  in  Hollywood  make  jokes 
■'—'about  'em — !  Somebody  asked  Jackie 
Searl,  the  other  day,  what  his  big  ambition  was. 
"Oh,  I  dunno,"  smartchattered  the  lad,  "I 
guess  I'm  not  terribly  ambitious.  I'd  like  to  be 
a  supervisor." 

ZIT'S  tells  the  story  of  Harpo  Marx  going  to 
a  Detroit  theater  to  see  his  picture  "Cocoa- 
nuts."  When  the  scene  of  him  eating  the  tele- 
phone was  flashed  upon  the  screen,  a  man 
sitting  next  to  the  comedian  said,  "Why,  that 
guy's  nuts."    Harpo  made  a  hasty  exit. 

A  LONG  Broadway  he  was  known  as  the 
*Mdnd  of. "  ham"  that  even  makes  a  noise 
when  buttoning  his  coat.  He  could  strut  sit- 
ting down.  He  went  to  Hollywood  to  try  his 
luck  in  the  studios. 

"Fine!"  shouted  the  first  director  he  ao- 
proached,  "you're  just  the  type!" 

"What's  the  role?"  he  asked. 

"An  obnoxious  New  Yorker!"  was  the  dev- 
astating retort. 


best  catch  I 


Silks  and  woolens 
love  this  new 

Ivory  Snow 


Suds  instantly  in 
lukewarm  water 


Ivory  Snow  is  the  new  star  among  fine  fabric  soaps!  It's  so 
quick.  So  attractive.  And  .  .  .  very,  very  kind ! 

Ivory  Snow  is  pure  Ivory  Soap  in  a  new  instant  form.  No 
"beating' '  to  give  suds.  J  ust  add  lukewarm  water — and  swish, 
these  white  snow  pearls  go  completely  into  velvety  suds.  No 
undissolved  soap  particles  left  to  spot  your  fabrics. 

Don't  hesitate  to  use  enough  Ivory  Snow 
to  make  a  thick  suds.  Ivory  Snow  can't 
possibly  hurt  colors  that  are  safe  in  clear 
water.  And  the  15$!  box  is  so  very  big 
that  even  when  you  use  its  contents 
generously,  it  lasts  through  many  silk-and- 
wool  washdays. 


Silk  and  woolen 
manufacturers  agree 

"A  perfect  soap  for  silks," 
say  Mallinson,  Cheney 
Brothers  and  Truhu.  "The 
ideal  soap  for  woolens,"  say 
the  weavers  of  the  fine  Bilt- 
more  Handwoven  Home- 
spuns, the  makers  of  downy 
Mariposa  Blankets  and  the 
Botany  Worsted  Mills,  lead- 
ing woolen  manufacturers, 
to  mention  only  a  few 


IOO 


Specialist 

tells  of  a  /jj| 

Soy  (^coirr 

who  did 

*A 

Good  Deed 
.Daily 

OLD  MAN  TAPLEY  runs  the 
drug  store.  After  school  his  lit- 
tle boy  Ed  delivers  packages  and 
works  behind  the  counter.  Ed  is 
nine,  and  so  not  long  ago  he  joined 
the  Boy  Scouts. 

Well  sir,  things  went  along  till 
one  day  old  man  Tapley  saw  Ed 
cram  a  little  tin  box  of  chocolate 
tablets  in  his  pocket.  The  upshot  of 
it  was  he  investigated  and  found  that 
Ed,  actin'  as  a  Boy  Scout,  was  doin' 
a  good  turn  a  day  by  givin'  away  a 
box  of  these  tablets. 

He  was  mad  at  first  and  started  to 
whip  Ed.  Then  he  got  to  figgerin'.  He 
checked  up.  Ed  had  give  these  tab- 
lets to  nearly  everybody  in  town. 
And  the  books  showed  the  medicine 
sales  at  The  Tapley  Drug  Store  had 
dropped  forty  per  cent  while  the 
lunch  counter  sales  had  increased 
ninety  per  cent.  There  you  are. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 

XTORMA  SHEARER  and  Irving  Thalberg 
•*-^have  always  lived  in  rented  nouses,  be- 
cause Norma  was  superstitious  and  felt  it 
brought  her  good  luck  to  live  in  one  place  in 
the  winter  and  another  in  the  summer. 

But  she  isn't  that  way  any  more,  for  a  forty 
thousand  dollar  home  is  being  built  in  Santa 
Monica  and  will  be  ready  by  the  time  the 
Thalbergs  return  from  Europe. 

There's  a  projection  room  with  a  screen 
which  rises  from  the  floor,  and  a  fine  sound 
apparatus.  And  there's  a  nursery — which  is 
the  real  secret  of  mama's  change  of  heart. 
Baby  Thalberg  must  have  a  permanent 
address. 


THERE'S  no  secret  about  Ex-Lax,  those 
little  chocolate  tablets  in  the  blue  tin  box. 
It  checks  on  every  point  a  doctor  looks  for  in 
a  laxative. 

Ex-Lax  is  simply  delicious  chocolate  com- 
bined with  a  scientific  laxative  ingredient, 
phenolphthalein  —  of  the  right  quality,  in  the 
right  proportion,  in  the  right  dose. 

Ex-Lax  is  safe — gentle — effective  for  young 
and  old.  At  all  druggists  in  10c,  25c  and 
50c  boxes.  Send  coupon  below  for  sample. 

Keep  "regular"  with 

EX- LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 

.--— ,  — ^     _       w— .  Complete  set  of 

FREF  "CHIC"  SALE  SAYINGS 

■*■       *—*  *""*  and  sample  of  Ex-Lax 


MARY  PICKFORD,  enroute  to  Hubby- 
Doug  in  England,  detoured.  She  motored 
from  New  York  City  to  the  town  of  Purchase. 
There,  in  a  private  mansion  called  Ophir  Hall, 
lay  King  Prajadhipok  of  Siam,  recovering  from 
an  eye  operation.  Mary  was  going  to  visit  the 
King,  since  the  King,  it  seems,  had  no  inten- 
tion of  going  Californiaward  to  visit  Pickfair. 

At  the  gates  of  Ophir  Hall,  where  clustered 
reporters  and  others,  Mary  was  duly  halted.  A 
functionary  inquired  of  her: 

"Who  are  you?  And  where  is  your  identi- 
fication card?" 

Mary  drew  herself  up  to  her  full  height,  such 
as  it  is,  turned  the  radiance  of  her  eyes  upon 
the  person,  and  spake: 

"My  face  is  my  only  identification  card!" 

Whereupon  the  gatekeeper  collapsed,  Queen 
Mary  of  Hollywood  was  admitted  to  see  King 
Prajadhipok  of  Siam,  and  the  Pickfair  royalty 
batting  average  remained  high. 

LILYAN  TASHMAN  has  gone  beach-crazy 
and  spends  spare  moments  bossing  the  work 
on  her  Malibu  house,  which  is  almost  com- 
pleted. 


Her  tan  is  the  favorite  Embassy  Club  topic 
of  conversation. 

Some  curse  it,  some  envy. 

And  now  she  has  Charley  horse  from  walking 
on  the  sands  in  bare  feet  and  flat  heels. 

But  she's  the  most-ultra  and  most  talked- 
about  beach  devotee  in  the  city. 

(^RETA  GARBO  will  return  to  Europe  at 
^-'the  end  of  her  contract  next  April,  and  she 
may  not  return. 

"Y\  THEN  Janet  Gaynor  and  Charlie  Farrell 
*V  walked  into  the  lobby  of  the  Carthay 
Circle  Theater  together,  it  gave  the  premiere  of 
"Daddy  Long  Legs"  an  unexpected  romantic 
kick. 

The  sidewalk  throngs  were  breathless  with 
excitement  and  literally  mobbed  the  two  after 
the  show. 

Janet,  surrounded  by  women,  gazed  appeal- 
ingly  in  Charlie's  direction,  while  Farrell,  over- 
joyed, was  asking  everyone  how  they  liked 
"our"  picture. 

"Of  course,  I  wasn't  in  it,"  amended  Charlie, 
"but  I  always  feel  that  Janet's  pictures  are 
mine,  anyway." 

This  tickled  everyone  and  Winnie  Sheehan, 
Fox  production  chief,  just  stood  in  the  back- 
ground thinking  delicious  thoughts  about  the 
next  Gaynor- Farrell  co-starring  vehicle,  "De- 
licious." 

Virginia  Valli,  Charlie's  bride,  and  Lydell 
Peck,  Janet's  husband,  were  also  there. 

JOHN  BARRYMORE,  unable  to  get  together 
J  with  the  Warner  family  at  the  conclusion  of 
his  $175,000-per-picture  contract,  went  yacht- 
ing in  Northern  Pacific  waters  and  announced 
laconically  in  Seattle  that  he's  going  back  to 
the  stage,  come  Fall. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  128  ] 


Strut  and  Number.. 


City „ Stan... 

Mail  this  coupon  to  Tbe  Ex-Lax   Co..  DrpL  PH  81 
P.  O.   Box  170.  Time»  Plaza  Sia..  Brooklyn.  N.  Y. 


Perpetuating  the  memory  of  Valentino  in  a  worthy  manner,  the  Valentino 
Association  has  endowed  and  fitted  up  a  ward  for  children  in  the  Italian 
Hospital  in  London.  Here  is  one  of  the  little  patients,  receiving  the  health- 
ful rays  of  an  ultra-violet-ray  lamp,  which  bears  engraved  on  it  the  last 
words  of  the  star:  "I  want  the  sunlight  to  greet  me."  This  is  only  one  of 
the  many  charities  carried  on  in  memory  of  Valentino,  who  died  five  years 

ago  this  month 


^k 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


io  I 


Should  Women 
Work? 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  TAGE  45  ] 


woman  is  early  in  the  morning.  She  awakes  to 
face  the  day.  She  is  completely  alone  then — 
no  one  to  talk  to,  no  one  of  whom  to  ask 
advice,  no  one  with  whom  she  may  indulge  in 
the  small  pleasantries  that  make  life  worth 
while. 

"I  live  from  day  to  day.  I  do  amusing  and 
interesting  things.  I  have  a  number  of  in- 
terests— the  theater,  nice  restaurants,  the  glow- 
ing talk  of  good  friends,  my  work.  I  lead  a 
busy  and  an  active  life,  as  does  every  profes- 
sional woman.  But  what  will  happen  to  me — 
to  us — when  we  have  grown  middle-aged? 
Have  we  missed  the  greatest  thing  in  the  world 
— the  companionship  of  a  loving  husband? 

"Perhaps  middle-aged  wives  are  as  unhappy 
as  middle-aged  professional  women.  I  don't 
know.  At  least  this  I  do  know.  We  will  have 
more  to  think  about  than  they — more  vital 
scenes  will  pass  through  our  minds,  brisk  pano- 
ramas, vivid  encounters.  And  perhaps  that  is 
all  middle-age  is — simply  remembering. 

"While  we  are  young — we  moderns — we  live 
in  this  mad  whirl  and  face  our  responsibilities. 
When  I  was  working  in  an  advertising  office  I 
saved  enough  money  to  make  a  trip  to  Paris. 
And  then  I  decided  I  would  take  the  time  off 
and  write  a  book  instead.  That  was  'Ex-wife,' 
and  from  then  on  my  responsibilities  increased. 
I  probably  won't  get  to  Paris  before  1932,  when 
my  option  with  the  Paramount  company  comes 
up. 

"My  son,  Mark,  lives  with  my  sister  and  me 
in  a  home  I  bought  in  Connecticut.  He  loves 
to  ride.  I've  bought  him  a  saddle  horse.  Per- 
haps, had  I  never  written  'Ex-wife,'  he  would 
have  had  only  a  pair  of  skates — but  the  idea  is 
the  same.    Now  they're  telling  me  how  cheaply 


The  only  horse  Clark  Gable  ever  rode 
before  he  went  to  Hollywood  was  on 
a  merry-go-round.  But  movie  actors 
must  be  versatile,  so  Clark  learned  to 
ride — learned  'til  it  hurt — and  now  he 
and  his  pal,  Bolingbroke,  are  insepar- 
able. Rising  rapidly  (in  the  films 
we  mean,  not  on  Bolingbroke),  Gable 
has  scored  heavily  in  those  villainous, 
menacing  roles  now  current,  but  we 
hope  they  don't  make  him  stick  to 
this  type.    He's  too  good  an  actor 


Doubtful  substitutes  for  Kotex 

may  be  health  risk  — you  know 

Kotex  is  safe. 

BE  cautious — when  you  hear  the  ex- 
pression, "just  like  Kotex." 
How  do  you  know  it's  just  like  Kotex? 
Where  was  it  made  ?  How  ?  By  whom  ? 
Is  it,  like  Kotex,  used  by  hospitals  from 
coast  to  coast? 

Surface  resemblance  does  not  make  a 
pad  "just  like  Kotex."  It's  easy  to  make 
a  pad  that  looks  like  Kotex.  Far,  far 
harder  to  make  one  that  meets  the  rigid 
Kotex  standards  of  purity,  of  cleanliness. 

Hospitals  use  Kotex 

After  all,  why  take  chances  ?  You  know 
Kotex  is  safe.  Last  year  more  than 
10,000,000  pads  were  used  by  hospitals. 
Their  choice  should  be  your  guide. 

Kotex  may  cost  a  few  pennies  more 
than  some  questionable  substitute  of 
whose  makers  you  know  nothing.  But 
those  few  cents  guarantee  a  product  that 
meets  your  personal  ideals  of  cleanliness 
as  well  as  hygienic  safety. 

Kotex  is  made  of  laminated  layers  of 
Cellucotton  (not  cotton)  absorbent  wad- 
ding that  absorbs  scientifically,  away 


from  the  surface.  Thus,  the  original  soft- 
ness lasts.  It  is  adjustable.  It  is  treated 
to  deodorize. 

Kotex  is  sold  at  drug,  dry  goods  and 
department  stores,  and  singly  in  vending 
cabinets  through  West  Disinfecting  Co. 

Kotex  Company,  Chicago. 


- 


KOTEX  IS  SAFE 


I  1  Can  be  worn  on  either  side  with  equal 
comfort.  No  embarrassment. 

1  2  The  Kotex  absorbent  is  the  identical 
material  used  by  surgeons  in  85%  of  the 
country's  leading  hospitals. 

I     3     The  Kotex  Filler  is  far  lighter  and  cooler 
than  cotton,  yet  absorbs  5  times  as  much. 

|  4  Kotex  is  soft  .  .  .  laminated  layers  ab- 
sorb scientifically,  away  from  the  surface. 

5     Disposable,  instantly,  completely. 


^iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiimiiiiiiuiiniiniiaaaMWMaHK 

Brings  new  ideal  i  of  sanitary  comfort!  Woven 
to  fit  by  an  entirely  new  patented  proccst. 
Firm  yet  light;   will  not  curl;   per/ect-/itting. 

KOTG  X 

Sanitary  Napkins 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


HO 

WONDER 

LOWE  IT  WOMEN 

PREFER  ¥HI§ 

EXQUISIYE    NEW 

f/lCE  POWDER 

Vou  will  love  MELLO-GLO  because  it  stays  on 
longer.  Unsightly  shine  is  banished.  No  dry  or 
flaky  appearance.  No  "drawn"  feeling  or  irrita- 
tion. Just  exquisite  rose-petal  beauty,  that  feels 
as  fresh  and  lovely  as  it  looks.  MELLO-GLO  Face 
Powder  prevents  large  pores  and  coarse  skin 
texture. 

Beautiful  women  use  MELLO-GLO,  because  a 
new,  exclusive  French  process  makes  this  the 
finest  and  purest  face  powder  known. 

Sifted  through  close-meshed  silk,  MELLO-GLO 
spreads  with  amazing  smoothness.  Its  odor, 
delicately  fragrant.  One  natural  shade  that 
blends  perfectly  with  any  complexion,  bestow- 
ing uponyourskin  a  fresh, clear,  youthful  bloom. 

If  you  wish  to  possess  and  retain  a  girlish 
complexion,  insist  on  MELLO-GLO.  One  dollar 
at  all  stores. 

For  fine,  dry  or  sensitive  skin,  ask  for  new 
light-weight  MELLO-GLO   in   blue-edged   box. 

Canadian  Agents,  Lyman  Agencies,  Limited,  Montreal 


p**+++f+*++*r+>+r++>*w++f++w**»++i 


MELLO-GLO  COMPANY       (Dept      61 ) 
Sutler  Bids.,  Boston.  Mass. 

Please  Find  10  cents   enclosed.    Send    me    sample   of 
MELLO-GLO  Face  Powder. 

Name , 


a  swimming  pool  can  be  built.    They'll  have 
the  swimming  pool,  I'm  sure. 

"And  yet,  I'm  delighted  to  do  all  these 
things.  I'm  trying  desperately  to  make  up  to 
Mark  for  not  having  a  father.  He  misses  that. 
The  other  boys  at  school  talk  of  their  fathers, 
and  I  can  see  it  hurts  him.  What's  the  answer 
to  that?  Marriage  may  be  finished  in  this  age 
—but  what  of  children?  I  know  a  woman 
writer  who  is  unmarried  and  has  a  child  when- 
ever she  wants  one.  But  isn't  that  a  little 
unfair  to  the  child? 

"  T  WANT  to  adopt  a  girl.  It's  for  selfish  rea- 
Jl  sons,  I  know.  I  want  to  have  her  as  a  com- 
panion, and  because  I  adore  children.  She 
might  grow  up  and  run  away  with  the  plumber. 
But  she'll  have  to  do  what  she  wants  to  do.  I 
believe  in  letting  every  person  lead  her  own 
life. 

"With  the  change  that  has  come  over  this 
generation  men  no  longer  need  to  marry,  and 
the  women  in  whom  they  are  interested  are  the 
clever  professional  women.  But  something 
happens  to  a  man  when  he  does  not  support 
his  wife.  He  may  be  as  modern  as  his  wife, 
conversationally;  he  may  promise  all  sorts  of 
things,  but  the  fact  that  she  earns  more  than  he 


does,  or  becomes  famous,  begins  to  eat  into  his 
mind,  and  the  marriage  ends. 

"I  sometimes  think  that  the  best  solution  is 
for  people  to  marry  young  and  grow  up  to- 
gether— never  having  known  the  outside  world. 
I  seldom  talk  of  my  own  marriage,  because  my 
ex-husband  has  a  wife  now  and  it  isn't  fair  for 
me  to  talk.  But  the  reason  we  went  on  the 
rocks  was  simply  because  we  both  came  from 
families  that  were  quite  comfortably  well  off, 
and  we  could  not  cope  with  the  poverty  in 
which  we  discovered  ourselves  after  our  mar- 
riage. It  was  not  because  we  were  young  that 
it  ended. 

"  When  I  was  writing  '  Ex-wife'  I  was  in  love. 
That  was  the  greatest  thing  that  ever  happened 
to  me.  The  man  was  a  distinguished,  important 
figure,  but  his  line  of  work  brought  him  no 
fame.  It  was  the  notoriety  that  I  received 
from  my  books,  my  career,  that  separated  us. 

"Man's  instincts  remain  the  same. 

"And  I'm  sure  I  do  not  know  the  answer  to 
any  of  this.  I'm  sure  I  cannot  tell  whether  the 
professional  woman  is  happier  than  the  wife  or 
less  so.  But  of  one  thing  I'm  sure — if  we  are 
able  to  make  anything  out  of  our  mad  era  we 
must  face  the  facts  as  we  see  them  and  piece 
out  the  salvation  of  our  individual  existence." 


Address. 


Kindly  write  here  name  of  your  Favorite  store: 


Dolores  vs.  the  Jinx 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  69 


"The  Bad  One,"  was  an  indifferent  success  at  the 
box-office,  but  who  could  still  demand  the 
appalling  sum  of  $9,000 — and  the  right  to 
"The  Dove,"  a  film  unsuited  to  any  of  their 
contract  people.  It  is  my  personal  opinion, 
whatever  that  amounts  to,  that  Sam  will  be 
smiling  on  the  other  side  of  his  face.  I  may  be 
as  wet  as  the  King  business,  but  I  believe  that 
Dolores  Del  Rio  is  due  for  a  big  comeback. 
And  I'll  get  to  my  reasons  for  this  in  a  minute. 
A  glowering  jinx  has  hounded  the  footsteps 
of  Dolores.  Her  life  has  been  one  cataclysmic 
adventure  after  another,  but  somehow  or 
other  she  has  managed  to  come  up,  if  not 
exactly  smiling,  at  least  on  top.  It  is  necessary 
to  go  back  a  little  to  realize  the  terrific  force 
of  this  woman,  still  in  her  early  twenties,  who 
has  lived  enough  to  be  a  hundred. 

YOU  know  her  story,  of  course,  that  she  was 
born  of  patrician  ancestors,  daughter  of  a 
wealthy  banker  and  that  her  marriage  to 
Jaime  Del  Rio  was  a  marriage  of  convenience, 
uniting  the  two  most  important  families  in 
Mexico.  There  have  been  rumors,  emanating 
mostly  from  Hollywood's  Mexican  Colony, 
that  while  Dolores  came  of  good  middle  class 
business  stock,  her  family  tree  had  not  so 
many  branches,  leafy  with  importance,  as 
Jaime's  and  that  her  family  jumped,  like 
Mexican  beans,  at  the  chance  of  having  a 
daughter  of  theirs  married  to  one  of  the  great 
Del  Rios.  It  has  even  been  hinted  that  there 
was  Indian  blood  on  the  mother's  side.  Noth- 
ing short  of  a  trip  to  Mexico  would  prove  these 
things,  and  it  would  be  a  worthless  journey, 
since  it  doesn't  really  matter. 

The  important  fact  is  that  at  the  age  of 
fifteen  she  was  married  to  a  wealthy,  patrician, 
proud  bachelor  ten  years  her  senior,  who  was 
completely  fascinated  by  the  beauty  of  this 
convent  bred  girl.  At  fifteen,  Dolores  found 
herself  on  a  honeymoon  trip  in  Europe,  living 
the  gay  life  of  the  Continent,  being  presented 
at  the  Court  of  Alphonso  XIII  of  Spain  and 
having  a  Paris  gown  named  after  her.  There 
is  no  doubt  that  Jaime  Del  Rio  exploited  the 
beauty  and  charm  of  his  young  wife  in  Europe 
just  as  Edwin  Carewe  exploited  his  talented 
new-found  star  in  Hollywood  some  years  later. 

That  was  a  tragic  marriage — the  older  man, 
the  utterly  innocent  child — and  it  is  no  wonder 
that  the  constant  parade  of  her  beauty,  like  a 
model  in  a  show  window,  was  bitter  to  Dolores. 
That  avid,  dark  beauty,  those  luminous  eyes, 


mystic  and  sombre;  Dolores,  mother  of  pain — 
oh,  she  was  born  under  an  ill-fated  star,  a  star 
of  suffering. 

Dolores  says  that  Jaime  did  not  want  her  to 
accept  the  offer  Carewe  made  her  in  Mexico 
to  come  to  Hollywood.  Others  maintain  that 
Jaime,  ever  delighted  with  his  prize,  saw 
another  chance  to  show  the  world  the  young 
thing  he  had  captured. 

At  any  rate,  they  came  and  Dolores  then 
was  as  fresh  as  a  dewy  morning,  a  gay  little 
package  done  up  in  bright  enthusiastic  rib- 
bons. Everything  in  Hollywood  entranced 
her.  Speaking  no  English,  she  was  delighted 
that  Jaime  acted  as  her  interpreter  on  the 
set.  It  was  all  new  and  lovely  to  her  and  then 
she  began  to  make  a  success,  and  you  know 
that  sordid  story.  You  know  the  story  of  a 
proud  man  finding  himself  becoming  the 
husband  of  a  picture  star  and  the  story  of 
a  young  girl  who  had  been  the  beautiful  wife 
of  a  wealthy  and  influential  citizen  becoming 
the  important  member  of  the  family.  There 
were  violent  quarrels  between  them  and 
neither  was  at  fault.  Circumstance  was  the 
apex  of  the  triangle  and  the  villain  in  the 
piece. 

Dolores  Del  Rio  had  never  loved  her  hus- 
band except  as  a  girl  would  love  an  important, 
charming  older  man.  By  the  same  token,  she 
never  loved  Edwin  Carewe  except  for  releasing 
her  from  the  boredom  of  her  life  in  Mexico 
City  and  giving  her  a  vital  place  in  an  active 
and  passionate  world. 

But  when  Jaime  Del  Rio  died  in  Europe 
alone  with  the  name  of  his  ex-wife,  Dolores, 
upon  his  lips,  it  was  duck  soup  for  the  sac- 
charine typewriters  of  the  sob  sisters. 

THE  motion  picture  public  had  approved  of 
the  spritely  young  patrician  from  Mexico, 
a  society  belle  bored  with  cocktail  parties  and 
polo,  who  wanted  to  make  a  name  for  herself. 
But  certainly  it  would  not  have  approved  of 
what  it  thought  was  a  heartless  wife  who  put 
her  fame  before  love  and  allowed  her  husband 
to  die  of  a  broken  heart.  Perhaps  that's  what 
Jaime  died  of — but  it  was  circumstance  and 
not  Dolores  who  caused  it. 

After  his  death,  Dolores  led  her  own  life. 
She  was  free  of  all  authority,  and  her  beaux 
were  as  numerous  as  inconsistencies  in  the 
Wickersham  report.  She  was  rumored  engaged 
to  a  number  of  different  men.  She  was  called 
a    ruthless     heartbreaker.     And     then     she 


J 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


married  Cedric  Gibbons.  This  new  happi- 
ness was  short-lived,  for  illness  and  her  broken 
contract  followed  and  it  was  thought  that  the 
end  of  Dolores'  tempestuous  professional  life 
was  in  sight. 

But  this  was  not  so.  She  is  well  now.  She 
is  as  interesting  as  ever.  She  has,  of  course, 
changed — changed  from  that  little  Mexican 
girl  into  a  suave  sophisticated  and,  perhaps, 
somewhat  embittered  woman.  She  has  never 
been  completely  happy,  and  I  doubt  that  she 
ever  will  be,  but  success  is  ahead  of  her.  Of 
that  I'm  convinced.  Dolores  has  lived  through 
too  many  ordeals,  she  has  battled  the  old  jinx 
too  long.    They  can't  keep  a  good  girl  down. 

She's  back  on  the  screen — up  and  at  'em! 


The  Shadow  Stage 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  59  ] 


EXPENSIVE  WOMEN— Warners 

THE  day  after  this  was  previewed  in  Los 
Angeles  a  columnist  announced  Dolores 
Costello  would  retire  to  private  life.  We  don't 
wonder.  They  took  the  surest  way  to  put  her 
there  by  giving  her  one  of  the  worst  stories  ever 
screened  for  her  return  opus.  She  looks  lovely 
and  her  voice  is  okay,  but  the  less  said  about 
the  entire  production  the  better. 

LAUGHING  SINNERS— M-G-M 

A  DAPTED  from  the  stage  play  "The 
•**-Torch  Song"  and  not  so  good,  but  if  you're 
a  Joan  Crawford  fan  you  may  like  it.  Clark 
Gable,  as  a  Salvation  Army  worker,  causes 
Joan  to  go  straight  after  Neil  Hamilton,  the 
cad,  does  her  wrong.  Hamilton's  work  is 
splendid  in  a  dirty-dog  role.  The  title  came 
out  of  a  grab-bag. 

WOMEN  LOVE  ONCE— Paramount 


XTO  wonder  Ruth  Chatterton  refused 
^-^make  this  one.  Formerly  known  as 
"Daddy's  Gone  A-Hunting."  Paul  Lukas 
turns  from  the  steady  family  support  of 
Eleanor  Boardman  into  a  playboy  willing  to 
let  more  than  one  woman  support  him.  Of 
course,  he  recovers  just  in  time  to  provide  the 
stereotyped  happy  ending.  Producers  wasted 
their  time;  don't  waste  yours. 

GOLDIE—Fox 

CPENCER  TRACY  and  Warren  Hymer,  the 
'•"'new  team,  do  the  Eddie  Lowe-Victor 
McLaglen  act  in  this  talking  version  of  "A  Girl 
in  Every  Port."  Jean  Harlow  brings  her 
several  attributes  to  the  part  of  the  girl  over 
whom  they  battle  particularly.  There  are 
plenty  of  laughs  in  both  lines  and  action.  If 
you  like  lusty,  gusty  stuff,  not  too  highly  pol- 
ished, this'll  do. 

THE  RECKLESS  HOUR— 
First  National 

•"THERE'S  nothing  strikingly  new  in  the 
■»■  story  of  a  young  girl  mistaking  a  cad  for  a 
gentleman  and  giving  him  privileges  popularly 
awarded  to  marriage.  However,  there  are  some 
new  twists  and  splendid  acting  by  Dorothy 
Mackaill,  H.  B.  Warner,  her  father;  Walter 
Byron  and  Conrad  Nagel,  the  two  lovers;  and 
Joan  Blondell,  comedienne.  Fair  entertain- 
ment. 

THREE  WHO  LOVED— 
Radio  Pictures 

T_TERE'S  a  yarn  with  two  climaxes;  one  in 
•*•  Athe  middle  and  one  at  the  end.  In  fact,  it 
could  have  been  two  pictures.  The  last  is  the 
most  exciting.     The  production  suffers  from 


L-108 


WRICLEY'S 


czrcLtLijxj^LrLq 


These  Little  Fellows 
Will  Show  You 

Let  wrigley'S  guard  your  beauty.  Just 
continue  to  chew  double  mint  because  it's 
your  favorite  chewing  gum.  Only  don't 
lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  every  time  you 
enjoy  a  fresh  stick  it's  as  good  as  treating 
yourself  to  a  Facial.  Camera  men  urge  th' 
daily  chewing  to  relax  tense  lines  arc 
mouth.  The  gentle  exercise  al*'" 
facial  circulation  and  <•' 
alertness  to  the  whole  cc 
double  mint  for  pleasu  . 

Beautv — what  more  can  you  c  ▼ 


104 


I  have 

GOOD 

NEWS 

about  removing 

SUPERFLUOUS 
HAIR 


. . .  Money  Saving  News 
...  Time  Saving  News 


DEL-ATONE 

The  All-white  Cream  Hair-remover 


50' 


NOW  in  a 
New  .  .  .  Large   tfi/     size 

Contains  almost  as  much  as  the  former 
$1  tube  .  .  .  Each  year  more  women  use 
Del-a-tone  because: 

1)  it  removes  hair  in  3  minutes  or  less. 

2)  does  not  cause  heavier  regrowth  of  hair. 
(Some  users  report  lessened  hair-growth). 

3)  it  is  creamy  white. 

4)  has  no  over-powering,  offensive  odor. 

5)  easy  to  use  as  cold  cream. 

6)  leaves  skin  clean  and  smooth  as  satin. 

Del-a-tone  advertising  carries  no  exagger- 
ated statements.  In  our  «____ 
opinion,  Del-a-tone 
Cream  is  the  best  depil- 
atory. Made  of  the 
finest  ingredients  money 
can  buy. 

Del-a-tone  Cream  also  in  new 
$1  tube.  More  than  twice  former 
size. 

Money-back  Guarantee 

If  Del-a-tone  Is  not  the  best  de- 
pilatory you  have  ever  used — 
your  money  cheerfully  refunded. 

50c  and  SI  sizes,  also  Del-a-tone 
Powder  In  SI  Jars  only, 
at  your  favorite  toilet 
goods  counter.  Insist 
on  Del-a-tone.  The 
Delato»eCo.  (Est.  1908) 
Dept.88, 233  E  Ontario 
St..  Chicago.  Illinois. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 

too  much  story.  Acting  rated  as  excellent. 
Betty  Compson  surprises,  while  Conrad  Nagel, 
Robert  Ames  and  Bodil  Rosing  keep  easily  in 
the  running.  Worth  the  average  program 
price,  in  spite  of  extra  climaxes. 

HUSH  MONEY— Fox 

A  NOTHER  gangster  film  in  which  the  poor 
-*Mittle  girl,  caught  in  a  trap,  pays  the  price 
of  her  shame  and  then  finds  wealth  and  happi- 
ness with  her  true  love.  An  amusing,  though 
obvious,  ending  takes  some  of  the  sting  out  of 
the  just  ordinary  story.  Joan  Bennett,  Hardie 
Albright,  Owen  Moore  and  Myrna  Loy  struggle 
valiantly  with  their  roles. 

LOVER  COME  BACK— Columbia 

T)  EMEMBER  Betty  Bronson  in  "Peter 
-L^-Pan"?  Well,  you'd  never  recognize  the 
little  girl  in  this  one,  for  she  spends  her  time 
snatching  a  nice  young  man  away  from  the  girl 
he  really  loves,  marrying  him,  and  then  whoop- 
ing it  up  in  the  gay  manner  with  his  boss. 
Pretty  poor  stuff,  and  pretty  rough  on  Betty, 
who  tries  hard  to  be  a  vamp,  but  just  isn't  the 
type. 

A  HOLY  TERROR— Fox 

rPHIS  two-fisted  Western  with  George 
*■  O'Brien  outwitting  all  possible  villains  is 
really  quite  a  wholesome  relief  after  sophis- 
ticated bedroom  dramas  and  gangster  repeats. 
There's  a  novel  twist  to  an  old  story,  too.  How 
that  hero  can  ride.  And  it  must  have  paid 
Sally  Eilers  to  marry  Hoot  Gibson.  She  sits  a 
saddle  like  nobody's  business.  James  Kirk- 
wood  and  the  leads  do  excellent  acting. 

THE  LAWLESS  WOMAN— 
Chesterfield  Pictures 

1  I  'AKE  all  the  preceding  gangster  and  cub 
-*-  reporter  pictures,  mix  well,  leave  out  the 
spice  and  flavor,  and  you  have  this  not  unin- 
teresting, but  quite  unimportant,  film.  There's 
the  cub  reporter  out  to  get  a  scoop  on  the 
latest  underworld  murder  and  the  innocent  girl 
accused  of  the  killing,  with  comedy  supplied  as 
usual  by  the  newspaperman  who  imbibes  too 
freely.  Carroll  Nye  and  Vera  Reynolds  are 
featured. 


c 


Miss  Mildred  Hadley.  The  Delatone  Co 

Dept.fe,     Delatone  KldK.,233   E.  Ontario  St..  Chicago.  III. 
snd  me  in   plain  wrapper  prepaid,  ftenerous  ac- 
quaintance tube  of  Del-a-tono   Cream  for  which  1  en- 
s<-  10c. 


Add 


Acquaintance  Offer 


Name-- 


SWEEPSTAKES— RKO-Pathe 

HpHIS  is  one  of  those  race-track  yarns  that's 
-*•  cooked  up  of  romance,  gags,  thrills  and  fast 
lines — and  a  bit  of  pathos,  too.  Nothing  much 
new  in  the  story  of  the  jockey  who's  barred  be- 
cause he  threw  a  race  for  love's  sweet  sake — 


and  then  makes  a  grand  come-back  after  going 
to  the  dogs.  But  you'll  be  moderately  enter- 
tained.   Quillan  and  Gleason  take  honors. 

SHIPS  OF  HATE—Trem  Carr 

IF  you're  fed  up  on  the  gangster-story  variety 
of  murders  and  assorted  gruesomeness,  here's 
a  chance  to  find  the  same  general  idea  in  a  new 
setting.  This  time  it's  all  on  shipboard,  with  a 
crippled  skipper  ruling  his  crew  of  cutthroats 
with  fear  and  a  long  whip.  Occasional  murders 
keep  things  nicely  morbid.  Charles  Middle- 
ton  steals  the  honors,  if  any.  If  weak-hearted, 
stay  home. 

DER  GROSSE  TENOR— UFA 

A  N  all-German  talkie  with  a  song  or  two, 
-*Meaturing  Emil  Jannings  in  a  typical 
Jannings  role.  He  plays  a  great  tenor,  who  not 
only  likes  song,  but  wine  and  women,  too.  He 
loses  his  voice,  retires  to  a  farm  with  his  wife, 
and  in  a  sudden  burst  of  rural  happiness,  dis- 
covers his  voice  has  returned.  Jannings  is 
splendid,  but  except  for  a  high  light  here  and 
there,  a  slow  moving  picture. 

THREE  LOVES— Terra 

"\>f  ARLENE  DIETRICH'S  presence  in  this 
■'•''■'■German  silent,  made  about  three  years 
ago,  is  the  only  valid  reason  (as  well  as  the 
obvious  one)  for  reviving  it  for  American  pre- 
sentation now.  While  it  is  entertaining,  its 
chief  interest  is  in  watching  the  Dietrich  of  the 
pre-Paramount  era.     It  has  English  subtitles. 

THE  TWO-GUN  MAN— Tiffany 

A  WESTERN,  frankly  done  in  the  old 
■**•  manner,  but  with  more  shooting,  harder 
fighting  and  faster  riding  than  one  imagined 
was  left  in  this  talkie-era.  Ken  Maynard, 
coming  to  the  aid  of  the  honest  rancher  in  a 
deep-dyed  cattle  war,  not  only  uncovers  the 
villain  and  saves  the  day,  but  wins  the 
rancher's  leetle  gal  to  boot.  Nothing  new,  but 
good  entertainment  of  its  kind. 

TRANSGRESSION— Radio  Pictures 

npOO  bad  that  a  production  as  beautifully 
-•-photographed,  produced  and  acted  should 
have  such  an  old  and  slow-moving  plot.  The 
clothes  worn  by  the  delectable  Kay  Francis 
make  it  worth  a  modest  price  of  admission, 
however.  It's  the  eternal  triangle  of  the  yearn- 
ing wife  and  the  forgiving,  generous  husband. 
Paul  Cavanagh  makes  a  splendid  husband  and 
Ricardo  Cortez  is  again  the  bewitching  seducer. 


Two  Ladies  Who  Make  You  Laugh 


Edna  May  Oliver 

[  CONTINUED  FEOM  PAGE  67  ] 


back:  "All  right.  Button  up  your  overcoat, 
come  out  and  join  the  family."  She  did — and 
she's  been  with  Radio  ever  since. 

She  know's  it's  her  face  that's  brought  her 
success — at  least,  without  it  all  her  fine 
dramatic  ability  wouldn't  have  had  half  the 
chance  her  face  gave  it. 

"But  you'll  never  know  how  much,  and  how 
often,  I've  longed  to  be  beautiful!"  she  con- 
fesses, out  of  the  midst  of  the  conversation. 

"Oh,  yes — I'm  grateful  in  a  way  for  this 
face  now  that  I've  gotten  used  to  it.  I  know 
it's  brought  me  this  success.  I  know  it's  given 
me  the  chance  to  make  and  save  enough  money 
so  I  won't  spend  the  end  of  my  days  in  an 
old  ladies'  home  somewhere.  But  all  the 
same,  I'm  a  woman.  And  what  woman 
doesn't  long  to  be  beautiful? 


"You  know,  people  sometimes  say  the 
crudest  things  about  my  face.  I  don't  mind 
them — any  more.  I've  gotten  hardened  to 
that  sort  of  thing — and,  of  course,  since  I 
capitalize  on  my  face  to  my  own  advantage,  I 
suppose  I've  got  to  take  the  hard  things  they 
say  along  with  the  advantageous  things  this 
face  brings  me! 

"  "EVERYWHERE  I  go,  people  recognize  me. 
-'—'It  flatters  me  to  have  them  tell  me  how 
they  know  me,  and  enjoy  my  work. 

"But  that  happiness  is  inevitably  tinged 
with  just  a  slight  flavor  of  bitterness,  because  I 
know  it's  this  face  that  makes  them  remember 
me. 

"I  recall  an  occasion  in  New  York  State. 
Everywhere  I  went  on  tour  with  'Show  Boat,' 
I  had  a  radio  put  in  my  hotel  room.  This 
time,  a  funny-faced  individual  came  in  to 
install  the  radio.  He  got  all  through  tinkering 
with  it. 

"Then  he  looked  at  me,  and  wheezed: 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


"  'Say,  ain't  I  seen  you  before?'  1  told  him  he 
probably  had,  since  I  was  on  the  stage.  'I 
knew  it,'  he  crowed,  'becuz  you  got  a  very 
peculiar  face,  lady — a  very  peculiar  face. 
Once  you  sees  it,  you  never  forgets  it!'  And 
he  went  down  the  hall  cackling  to  himself — 
and  never  realized,  perhaps,  that  I'll  never 
forget  his  face  myself.  It  had  mine  backed  off 
the  map!" 

The  greatest  shock  she  ever  got  was  the 
first  time  she  was  called  horse-faced.  It  was 
indirect.  A  certain  dramatic  critic,  reviewing 
the  opening  of  a  play  in  which  she  was  featured, 
wrote  that  "Edna  May  Oliver  looked  her  usual 
self — as  though  she'd  just  been  taken  out  of 
harness."  But  since  then,  she's  gotten  used 
to  it.  In  Hollywood  where  they're  less  kind 
to  personal  feelings  than  any  place  else,  per- 
haps, they  call  her  simply  "hoss-faced  Oliver." 

"/^\H,  I've  gotten  hardened,"  she  says, 
^-'smiling.  But  there's  no  conviction  in 
that  smile.  Not  strange  though,  is  it — that  no 
matter  what  it's  made  her,  that  face  of  hers  is 
still  not  the  sort  of  face  a  woman  wants  to 
have? 

"The  first  time  I  ever  saw  myself  on  the 
screen,  I  was  almost  nauseated!"  She  ad- 
mits. "That  lasts  even  now.  I  never  like  to 
see  myself  on  the  screen.  It  hurts  my  vanity — 
yes,  I've  got  some  left!  So  I  stay  away  from 
my  own  pictures.  If  other  people  enjoy  seeing 
me,  that's  all  right  and  I'm  glad — but  I  don't 
enjoy  seeing  myself! 

"Oh,  well — why  complain?  I've  found  a 
measure  of  happiness,  and  let  it  go  at  that, 
face  or  no  face.  If  any  woman  wants  to  be 
thought  beautiful,  let  her  surround  herself 
with  me,  and  she  will  be.  As  for  me — if  I  ever 
have  my  own  producing  company,  I'm  going 
to  surround  my  self  with  the  most  beautiful 
women  I  can  hire.  And  then  I'll  at  least 
stand  out  and  be  distinctive!" 


Una  Merkel 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  66  ] 

loaned  to  an  independent  company  to  play  in 
"Eyes  of  the  World,"  and  then  back  to  United 
for  the  sweet  little  frightened  ingenue  in  "The 
Bat  Whispers."  Yessir,  Una  was  on  the  up- 
ward and  onward  holy  path  and  no  mistake. 

And  then — what  ho! — the  hero  to  the  front. 
John  Considine  left  United  Artists  to  go  with 
Fox.  That  company  was  planning  to  make  a 
comedy  called  "  Don't  Bet  on  Women,"  and  by 
some  strange  fluke  John  happened  to  remember 
the  funniest  girl  he'd  ever  seen  in  the  stage 
play  "  Coquette,"  a  girl  who  kept  the  audience 
laughing  through  its  tears  with  her  bizarre 
Southern  accent  and  her  funny  dangling  hands 
and  suddenly,  out  of  a  clear  mental  sky,  it 
dawned  upon  him  that  this  woman  was  the 
same  person  who  had  been  under  contract  to 
United  Artists  and  looking  starry  all  the  time. 

He  sent  for  Una.  They  put  her  in  "Don't 
Bet  on  Women."  They  kept  writing  in 
funny  lines  for  her  to  say  and  she  said  'em 
fifhny.  She  was  a  scream  and  everybody  sud- 
denly said,  "Where  has  this  comedienne  been 
hiding?"  And  she  had  been  Gishy  all  the  time. 

Well,  United  Artists  was  pretty  mad.  They'd 
been  weeping  over  a  comic  and  didn't  know  she 
was  a  comic.  So  when  her  contract  was  up 
they  didn't  renew,  and  Una  took  her  accent 
and  her  walk  right  over  to  Fox  where  she's  been 
making  them  roll  in  the  aisles  ever  since. 

T\  7 AIT  until  you  see  and  hear  her  in  "Daddy 
*»  Long  Legs."    That  silly,  broad  accent — 
she's  a  scream. 

Griffith,  I'm  sure,  feels  badly  about  it  all. 
But  the  world  is  safe.  Less  Gishes  and  more 
Fazendas — says  I.  Less  moonlight  and  roses 
and  more  good  sturdy  pie  throwing.  Less 
heroines  and  more  comediennes.  Una  Merkel 
was  snatched  from  Griffith  by  Fate  and  every- 
body feels  a  lot  better  now. 


S 

no  in 


BURNED  TO  A  PAINFUL  CRISP 
OR  BUSSED  BY  THE  SUN? 

UNLIGHT  is  a  glorious  tonic,  but  sunburn  is  a  torture!  jo  bask  in 


tlie  summer  sun,  spend  carelree  days  in  tbe  open,  but  don  t  come 
narting,  blistered  ruin!  ounburn  is  obviously  not  pretty,  an 


aii 


iji 


u 


really  barms  your  skin,  leaves  it  coarsened,  leatbery,  old.  W  by  not 
enjoy  tbe  sunsbine  tins  new  "way,  witbout  danger  ol  burning: 

ijelore  you  go  out  ol  doors,  simply  apply  J_)orotby  L»ray  Ounburn 
L^ream  to  all  exposed  parts  ol  you.  J. bis  creamy  liquid  will  instantly 
sink  into  your  skin,  leaving  no  sticky,  greasy  Ieeling  —  notbing  to  soil 
your  Irock.  Ounburn  Cream  doesn  t  keep  all  sunbgbt  Irom  your  skin, 
but  it  filters  that  part  of  the  ultra-violet  iay  which  causes  burning.  It  is 
tbe  only  preparation  wbicb  prevents  sunburn  by  tins  scientific  metbod. 

Ounburn  C^ream  is  a  wise  cboice  lor  cbildrens  delicate  skins,  lor  it 
lets  tbem  enjoy  all  tbe  benefits  ol  tbe  summer  sun,  yet  saleguards  tbem 
Irom  its  pain  and  danger,   lake  tbe  smart  Hat  bottle  on  all  your  outings. 


By  filtering  the    burning 

ultra-violet  ray,  Dorothy 

Gray  Ounburn    Cream 

eliminates  the  danger 

of  sunburn. 


You'll  find  Dorothy 
Gray  Sunburn  Cream 
at  leading  department 
and  drug  stores  in  every 
city.  $2.00. 


©  i9ji,  d.  a. 


DOROTHY 
CRAY 


CI, 


icago 


683  FIFTH  AVENUE 
Los  Angeles  San  Francisco 


NEW  YORK 

Washington 


Atlantic  City 


io6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


CHAFING/ 

Does  it  affach 
ipur wdkinq? 


You  cannot  walk  or  dance  gracefully 
when  you  suffer  from  chafing.  Even 
the  telltale  lines  on  your  face  register 
your  discomfort. 

When  summer  heat  and  perspiration 
irritate  your  skin,  be  ready  with 
Mentholatum.  Its  soothing,  healing 
coolness  brings  speedy  relief.  In  jars 
and  tubes,  30c  Three  times  as  much 
in  large  jars,  60c. 


TRIAL 
OFFER 

Mail  Valuable 
Coupon 

Dept.  PC,  Mentholatum  Company,  Wichita,  Kansas 

Please  send  me  TRIAL  TUBE  oi  MENTHOLATUM. 
Enclosed  is  4c  to  cover  mailing  cost. 

Name 

Address 


FPFF  BEAUTY  ADVICE  „ 

M.  MXMkJJU    and  How  to  Fascinate  Men 

v  Over  100,000  women  use  Lucille  Young  Beauty 

Jv\      Methods.  My  fifteen  years'  experience  justi- 
I    fies  your  confidence.   Quickly, eurely  end  pirn- 
•£    plea,  blackheads,  wrinkles,  muddy  skin,  oily 
£■  ekin,  freckles,  coarse  pores.  Develop,  reduce — 
njmfjf    any  -part  of  body,  or  entire  body.   Grow — yen 
■     crow — eyelashes,  eyebrows.  Make  sparse  hair 
luxuriant,  dull  hair  bright.    My  beauty  help 
differs  because  scientific.    No  pay  if  not  de- 
lighted. 

f?"prici  TT>T  A  I  Send  for  unconditional  free  trial  offer. 
flVIVEj  XtlLAL*  No  obligation.  Two  full  weeks  to  find 
out  by  actual  use  of  my  beauty  aids.  Also  free  instruction  in 
Fascination,  how  to  win  love.  Mv  book  telle  all.  Just  write, 
"send  Free  Trial  Offer".    Write  today. 

LUCILLE  YOUNG,  5568    Lucille  Young  BIdg.,  Chicago,  111. 

Name 

Street  Address 

City State 

flKtfenes^IKeatre 

A.  and  CULTURAL  subjects  for  pergonal  development  —  Stage.  Teach- 
in*.  Dirccting-Drama,  Stage  and  Concert  Diinring.  Vocal.  Screen,  Mu- 
mcal  Comedy.  Elocution.  Stock  Theatre  and  platform  appearances  while 
learning.     For  catalog   10  apply   P.  Ely,  S«c*>,   66  W.  85th  St.,   H.  Y. 


Inside  Politics  of  the  Studios 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  49  ] 


by  and  interested  in  her  people.  No  suggestion 
is  made  but  it  is  only  natural  that  writers  in- 
stinctively include  the  people  in  their  stories 
who  have  interested  them! 

The  same  astuteness  is  required  in  every 
branch  of  the  business.  It  is  not  wisdom  to 
refuse  an  invitation  to  the  home  of  Marion 
Davies.  The  very  cream  of  Hollywood's  pro- 
fessional life  floats  on  Marion's  swimming  pool. 
A  lesser  light  cannot  afford  to  miss  the  oppor- 
tunity; a  greater  light  cannot  afford  to  be  noted 
among  those  missing. 

A  N  invitation  to  Mary  Pickford's  is  likewise 
■*»-a  command.  To  refuse  is  to  be  politically 
blind.  An  amusing  sidelight  on  this  is:  For  a 
long  time  Mary  Pickford  was  the  only  one  who 
could  afford  to  decline  Marion's  invitations — 
and  vice  versa.  Today,  they  are  friends  and 
interchange  social  calls  frequently.  Hollywood 
understands  that  Mary  made  the  first  break 
and  maneuvered  the  re-arrangement.  Cer- 
tainly Mary  adores  Marion  today,  and  says  so 
frankly. 

Naturally,  picture  people  are  human  and 
real  friendships  often  come  from  social  begin- 
nings.   Real  enmities,  too. 

A  number  of  years  ago,  Winfield  Sheehan 
was  ill  and  Raoul  Walsh  and  his  wife,  who  was 
at  that  time  Miriam  Cooper,  cared  for  him  in 
their  home.  A  deep  friendship  between  the 
men  resulted.  Now,  undoubtedly,  Raoul 
Walsh  had  no  political  intentions  whatsoever 
at  that  time — but  a  friendship  with  the  monitor 
of  Fox  activities  cannot  but  be  beneficial  to  a 
Fox  director.  Certainly,  a  director  to  be  suc- 
cessful must  draw  good  stories,  good  actors, 
good  staffs. 

Lilyan  Tashman  thought  it  wise  to  court 
Constance  Bennett  who  threatened  the  best- 
dressed  title.  A  shrewd  political  move,  in 
theory.  Not  so,  in  reality.  They  were  too 
much  alike — neither  could  stand  it.  The 
friendship  developed  into  a  feud. 

Marie  Dressier  deserves  every  tribute  the 
world  or  her  friends  can  give  her.  But  without 
a  political  sense  Marie  would  never  have  been 
able  to  show  her  worth  of  these  tributes. 
Marie's  very  return  to  Hollywood  was  the 
result  of  a  political  maneuver. 

PRANCES  MARION  and  Marie  had  been 
-*-  friends.  Years  ago  when  Frances  was  ill  in 
New  York  and  without  money,  Marie  took  her 
home  and  cared  for  her.  The  friendship  which 
resulted  is  almost  sacred  between  them. 

One  day  Frances  received  a  letter  from  a 
mutual  friend  of  hers  and  Marie's  in  New  York, 
which  said  that  Marie  was  so  cheerful  and  so 
insistent  that  everything  was  right  with  the 
world  that  she  felt  certain  Marie  must  be 
broke.  Frances  had  just  completed  the  script 
of  "The  Callahans  and  the  Murphys."  Metro 
was  searching  a  lead.  Frances  went  to  head- 
quarters. "I  know  just  the  woman.  Marie 
Dressier!  I  haven't  heard  of  her  for  years. 
But  she  would  be  too  expensive.  She  was  get- 
ting $3,000  a  week  the  last  time  I  saw  her."  Or 
words  to  that  effect. 

"Because  of  our  friendship  I  believe  I  could 
get  her  for  $2,000."  Again,  there  was  no 
record  made  of  the  statement  but  that  was  the 
gist  of  it. 

Frances  "tried."  Marie  "consented."  It 
had  been  many  years  since  she  received  that 
$3,000  and  then  only  for  a  very  short  period. 
The  producer  never  knew  it,  but  he  profited  by 
the  deal. 

Frances  Marion  is  one  of  the  shrewdest  of 
them  all — which  is  why  she  is  still  in  the  busi- 
ness. And  she  continues  to  use  her  political 
finesse  not  only  for  herself  but  for  others.  She 
wished  Marie  to  have  dramatic  opportunities. 
Metro  could  see  her  as  a  comedienne  only. 
Frances  also  wanted  them  to  buy  "  Dark  Star" 


from  another  intimate,  Lorna  Moon,  so  that 
Lorna,  who  was  dying,  might  have  an  estate 
for  her  daughter. 

Finally — after  continual  solicitation  from 
Frances — they  agreed  to  purchase  the  book  if 
Frances  would  do  the  screen  story.  "I  will  dc 
it  if  you  will  let  Marie  Dressier  play  it."  More 
arguments;  more  solicitation.  Frances  won. 
"Min  and  Bill"  was  the  result,  with  Marie 
Dressier.  Incidentally,  as  a  preface,  Frances 
had  agreed  to  adapt  "Anna  Christie"  only  if 
Marie  Dressier  received  a  dramatic  oppor- 
tunity in  it! 

Marie  is  the  pet  of  the  publicity  department. 
And  to  be  the  pet  of  publicity  departments  is  to 
carry  the  safest  political  insurance  in  the  city. 
Marie  has  made  friends  of  each  member  of  that 
department.  Certain  stars  treat  them  like 
studio  help.  Marie  entertains  them  frequently 
in  her  home.  She  is  a  blessed  combination: 
both  sincere  and  politically  minded ! 

A  T  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Norma  Shearer 
-*»-gets  first  choice  of  stories,  directors,  leading 
men,  cameramen,  photographers,  etc.  Greta 
Garbo  has  second;  Joan  Crawford  third. 

Norma  is  the  wife  of  Irving  Thalberg,  head 
man. 

Norma's  entire  career  seemed  impossible 
from  the  beginning.  There  were  so  many 
handicaps  to  it.  Imperfect  eyes;  imperfect 
ankles.    They  have  all  been  obliterated. 

It  just  happens  that  I  am  an  ardent  admirer 
of  Norma  Shearer  as  an  actress  and  as  a 
woman.  But  I  must  admit  that  I  admire 
women  who  have  political  sense.  Norma  has 
the  best  on  the  lot.  She  lives  up  to  it.  She 
gives  the  best.  Incidentally,  if  I  were  an  actor 
or  actress  on  the  M-G-M  lot  I  would  never  try 
to  save  ten  dollars  by  not  'appearing  at  a 
Norma  Shearer  opening.  But  then,  I,  too,  am 
politically  minded. 

Greta  Garbo!  Not  a  politician,  you  say.  I 
agree  with  you.  She  hires  her  politician.  All 
Garbo  could  say  was:  "I  go  home;  I  stay 
home."  And  she  would  undoubtedly  have 
stayed  (Metro  was  about  disgusted)  when  Jack 
Gilbert  brought  Harry  Edington  to  manage 
her. 

Garbo  has  not  had  to  think,  professionally, 
since.  She  paid  Mr.  Edington  to  think  for  her. 
And  since  he  is  the  man  who  tied  Metro  to  a 
three-year,  one-million-dollar,  non-breakable 
contract  for  John  Gilbert  and  then  secured 
himself  an  executive  contract  at  Metro  at  a 
salary  said  to  be  $1,000  weekly  (who  could 
blame  Metro  for  wanting  him  with  them  since 
he  handled  Garbo's  business?) — we  cannot  but 
grant  he  knows  his  political  labyrinths. 

You  know  the  story  of  Joan  Crawford. 
Photoplay  gives  it  to  you  in  this  issue.  Joan 
learned  more  slowly  than  Norma  Shearer,  but 
she  has  learned  wisely.  Of  course,  her  big  fight 
today  is  for  stories  and  good  leading  men. 
"Laughing  Sinners"  is  not  good  for  Joan  and 
she  knows  it,  but  it  was  more  political  to  take 
it  than  fight  it.  Probably  by  conceding  this 
time  she  placates  and  establishes  a  good  feeling 
which  will  mean  a  better  one  next  time. 

AS  for  leading  men.  Joan  tries  them  out  in 
her  pictures.  Bob  Montgomery  was  suc- 
cessful with  her;  then  he  went  to  Shearer  and 
Garbo.  Clark  Gable  made  good  in  "Dance 
Fools,  Dance!"  now  he  is  with  Norma  in 
"A  Free  Soul."  And  what  grand  work  she 
does  in  that  picture. 

Of  course,  no  matter  how  shrewd  a  politician 
you  are,  you  cannot  make  good  without  a 
screen  personality.  You  may  fool  the  pro- 
ducers but  you  cannot  fool  the  box-office.  You 
may  hang  on  for  years  by  a  political  thread  but 
in  the  long  run  you  are  doomed  if  the  public 
will  not  accept  you. 

Neil  Hamilton's  exit  from  Paramount  had 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


107 


little  to  do  with  box-offices.  He  simply  failed 
as  a  politician.  While  other  actors  lunched 
with  directors,  talked  their  personal  problems 
over  with  them — in  blunt  language,  "played" 
the  men  who  had  the  choice  of  roles  for  Para- 
mount pictures,  Neil  lunched  at  a  solitary 
table.  He  realized  he  wasn't  getting  the 
"breaks."  He  consulted  a  friend.  "Why 
don't  you  go  to  Mr.  Schulberg  (director  of 
West  Coast  studio)  and  tell  him  that  in  all 
modesty  you  think  you  are  as  good  looking  as 
other  actors  and  as  capable.  Ask  him  why  you 
aren't  getting  anywhere." 

NEIL  took  the  advice.  Mr.  Schulberg  ad- 
mitted that  Neil  had  created  a  pacific  resist- 
ance. When  executives  suggested  Neil  for  a 
part,  directors  said  nothing  against  him.  They 
merely  counter-questioned  "What  about 
Arlen  or  Cooper?"  Neil  had  never  learned 
that  politics  rule  Hollywood,  as  it  rules  the 
world.  He  has  a  new  chance  at  Metro.  We 
shall  see  if  he  has  learned. 

After  "The  Big  Parade,"  Renee  Adoree 
should  have  soared  to  Garboian  heights.  But 
Renee  is  a  child  of  nature.  An  adorable 
creature  who  can  inspire  love  in  many  men,  but 
not  inspire  political  cooperation.  When  she 
forgot  to  push  herself — there  was  no  one  else  to 
push  her. 

Dorothy  Sebastian;  Alice  White;  Clara  Bow 
— bad  politicians.  Dorothy  is  a  great  little 
trouper.  She  spent  five  years  as  the  hand-me- 
what-you-please  girl  of  the  M-G-M  lot.  Sent 
here  by  New  York  executives,  she  was  never 
received  with  open  arms  by  local  ones.  The 
local  boys  want  to  make  their  own  discoveries. 
Only  a  human,  natural  situation.  If  Dorothy 
had  possessed  the  intuitional,  political  sixth 
sense,  she  would  have  erased  that  opposition  by 
adroit  handling. 

She  was  big  hearted,  genuine,  but  not  clever. 
Five  years  on  one  lot!  A  salary,  the  last  year, 
of  S1,000  weekly.  She  had  been  loaned  out  for 
much  larger  sums  and  had  made  a  nice  profit 
for  her  company.  Then — the  end  of  her  con- 
tract. An  offer  for  renewal  at  the  same  salary. 
She  wanted  more;  she  was  entitled  to  it.  She 
went  to  an  executive's  office  to  ask  for  it.  She 
was  kept  waiting  in  a  reception  room  for  an 
hour.  She  was  furious.  Human,  but  not 
politics. 

"I  can't  understand  why  you  should  keep 
me  waiting — " 

A  complaint  as  her  greeting  to  a  man  who 
held  her  fate  in  his  fingers.  Executives  are 
human;  they  are  often  vain — self-interested. 
Probably  salaries  of  half  a  million  a  year  entitle 
them  to  self-interest. 

"  Do  you  know  to  whom  you  are  speaking — " 

Dorothy  lost.  She  has  not  worked  at  a 
major  studio  since.  You  can  blame  whom  you 
please,  but  the  fact  remains  that  Norma 
Shearer,  Greta  Garbo's  manager,  Ruth  Chat- 
terton,  Libyan  Tashman,  Gloria  Swanson, 
Janet  Gaynor  and  Lillian  Gish  would  have 
handled  a  man  in  a  different  manner! 

You  are  probably  surprised  at  the  last  two 
names  on  that  list.  Yet  I  consider  Gaynor  and 
Gish  two  of  the  shrewdest  politicians  who  ever 
worked  in  this  city.  The  very  fact  that  they 
appear  so  unpolitical  is  what  has  made  them 
the  most  successful. 

POLITICAL  vamping  is  not  a  pretty  term, 
but  it  really  does  fit  these  two  cases.  They 
are  the  types  whom  men  will  always  want  to 
protect,  and  they  are  women  who  are  shrewd 
enough  to  allow  the  protection. 

Ailcen  Pringle  was  the  pet  of  the  intelli- 
gentsia, but  Lillian  Gish  was  the  goddess. 
Mencken,  Nathan,  Hergesheimer.  The  last 
once  said  that  Miss  Gish  was  the  heroine  of  all 
he  wrote  without  his  knowing  it.  She  was  the 
epitome  of  all  women. 

Lillian  and  Janet  with  their  virginal  quali- 
ties, their  ethereal  appeals,  can  control  any 
situation  where  men  are  involved.  The  men 
want  them  to  control  it.  The  men  wanted 
Anita  Page  to  control  them  in  the  same 
manner.  But  Anita  lacked  the  shrewd  sixth 
sense  which  was  Lillian's  and  is  Janet's. 


[National  Beauty  Clinic  Report  No.  459] 


Fifteen  leading 
dermatologists 
recently  conduct- 
ed a  nation-wide 
Beauty  Clinic. 
Their  official  re- 
ports, reviewed 
and  attested  by 
one  of  the  coun- 
try's leading  der- 
matologists,show 
Woodbury's  Fa- 
cial Soap  to  be 
most  effective  of 
all   beauty  aids. 


A 


tutUCOl  KjiCUcWl^tmy ',  taken  from  physi- 
cians' reports  in  nation-wide  Beauty  Clinic,  gives 
thrilling   proof  of  simple   way   to  skin  loveliness 


Her  age  is  20.  She  lives  in  California. 
Her  occupation,  dancer.  And  she  had 
tried  dozens  of  ways  to  get  rid  of  oily 
skin  and  enlarged  pores. 
Then  she  volunteered  to  assist  IS  lead- 
ing skin  specialists  in  a  recent  nation- 
wide Beauty  Clinic. 

Her  prescription  was  exactly  the  same 
as  that  of  612  others.  On  the  left  side  of 
her  face,  her  usual  skin  treatment.  On 
the  right  side,  every  night — warm  water 
and  the  soothing  lather  of  Woodbury's 
Facial  Soap. 

Regularly,  her  dermatologist  checked 
results.  In  a  week,  the  Woodbury  side  was 
less  oily,  pores  began  to  shrink.  In  two 
weeks,  pores  were  smaller,  the  skin  drier. 
Three  . . .  continued  improvement.  Four 


.  .  .  and  her  doctor  reported  that  the 
Woodburv  side  was  smooth,  clear,  fine. 
The  untreated  side  was  still  oily  and 
coarse. 

Again  and  again  these  doctors  confirmed 
what  millions  of  women  know  .  .  .  that 
Woodbury's  is  more  than  an  ordinary 
toilet  soap  .  .  .  it's  an  incomparable 
beauty  treatment  in  soap  form. 
In  115  cases  of  oiliness  .  .  .  106  cases  of 
acne  ...  81  cases  of  dry  skin,  Wood- 
bury's brought  improvement  where 
other  methods  failed.  Even  women  with 
normal  skins  found  that  Woodbury's 
made  the  skin  brighter,  clearer,  lovelier. 
At  all  drug  stores  and  toilet  goods  coun- 
ters in  economical  3-cake  boxes  and  at 
25(f  per  cake. 

USE    THIS    COUPON     FOR    PERSONAL 
BEAUTY    ADVICE 

JOHNT  H.  WOODBURY,  INC. 
808  Alfred  St.,  Cincinnati,  O. 

In  Canada,  John  H.  Woodbury,  Ltd.,  Perth,  Ontario 
I  would  like  advice  on  my  skin  condition  as  checked  be- 
low,  also  trial  cake  of  Woodbury's    Facial  Soap  and 
generous  sample  of  Woodbury's  Cold  Cream  and  Facial 
Cream  and  Facial  Powder.    For  this  I  enclose  ic*. 
Oily  Skin  D  Flabby  Skin   D  Sallow  Skin  D 

Dry  Skin   D  Coarse  Pores  □  Pimples  Q 

Wrinkles    □  Blackheads     Q 


Name_ 


©1931.  John  H.  Woodbury.  Inc.  Address^ 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


Curl  Lashes  Instantly  with 

KURLASH 

DO  it  yourself  at  any  time.  No 
heat,  no  cosmetics.  Just  insert 
lashes  between  the  Kurlash  rubber 
pads  and  press.  At  once  your  lashes 
are  curled.  And  look — your  eyes 
appear  so  much  brighter,  larger, 
more  alluring!  Note  the  increased 
personality  and  charm!  That's  why 
Hollywood  stars  use  Kurlash.  Even 
short  lashes  seem  long.  Toilet 
counters  everywhere,  $1.00. 

Automatic  Painless  TWEEZETTE 

For  shaping  brows  daintily  or  re- 
moving any  hair  without  pain.  Just 
tweeze  unwanted  hairas  usual  and 
press  the  button.  Zip!  The  hair  is 
out.  Positively  painless.  Thousands 
in  use.  $1.00. 

The  TWEEZETTE         .  ^cssr"""^ 


Kurlene — to  grow  long,  luxuriant  lashes. 
Shadette — intensifies  eyes'  natural  color. 
Lashtint— perfumed  waterproof  liquid 

mascara. 
Lashpac — Compact  with  brush  and  stick 

mascara.  Each  SI  .00. 

Write  for  booklet  "Fascinating  Eyes  and  Hour 
To  Have  Them."  Beauty  secrets  told  in  pic- 
tures. Mailed  free. 


THE  KURLASH  COITlPAnU 

.77   SOUTH    AVE.    -    ROCHESTER  -  N.Y. 


s 


30   DAYS 

HOME  TRIAL 


HAPE++ 

>wNOSE 

Anita  Nose  Adjuster 
shapes  flesh  and  car- 
tilage— quickly,  safely, 
painlessly,  while  you 
sleep  or  work.  Lasting 
results.  Doctors  praise 
it.  Gold  Medal  Winner. 
87,000  users.  Write 
for  FREE  BOOKLET. 


ANITA  INSTITUTE,  H-28,  Anita  Bldg.,  Newark,  N.  J. 

\stoun<finq  Free  Offers AssurulouR$uccE$$ 

One  garment  free  with  three.    New  mer* 

chandise  plan  etvttpmg  the  country.  Big 

Cash  Pay  starts  at  once.  Complete  sam- 

k  pie  line  given  free.  Write  today.  The 

plan's  a  proven  money  maker. 

I  CARLTON     MILLS,    Dapt. 
1  7»  Fifth  Av*.,  N.V.C.  592-H 


Shirts,  Ties,  Unde t  wear.  Hosiers 


Eleanor  Boardman  has  refused  to  sign  a  con- 
tract with  Metro.  Why?  Eleanor's  eyes 
widen.  "I  can't  tell  you.  I  have  been  un- 
political all  my  life.  I  have  expressed  what  I 
thought  without  thinking  of  the  consequences. 
I  must  learn  to  be  politically  minded!" 

Eleanor  did  lose  many  valuable  roles  because 
of  lack  of  that  sixth  sense.  I  remember  the 
time  when  she  was  making  a  series  of  pictures 
with  Hobart  Henley.  She  disliked  him  and 
said  so.  She  refused  to  make  another  picture 
with  him.  She  was  called  to  the  executive 
offices.  She  was  told  to  apologize.  She  re- 
fused. Furthermore,  she  rushed  to  her  dress- 
ing-room where  an  interviewer  was  waiting  and 
poured  out  the  whole  story.  You  may  have 
read  it.  The  only  thing  that  saved  Eleanor's 
contract  then  was  the  fact  that  Metro  wanted 
to  keep  King  Vidor,  her  husband.  She  did  not 
apologize  to  Mr.  Henley,  but  he  "forgave"  her 
for  being  a  naughty  girl,  and  they  made 
another  picture  together. 

Lupe  Velez  knew  nothing  of  politics.  But 
"The  Squaw  Man"  was  cut  to  Lupe.  She  has 
learned  how  to  handle  directors,  even  Cecil 
De  Mille  ogres.  Nor  did  she  "yes"  him.  She 
simply  made  him  feel  what  he  himself  told  me: 
"Lupe  is  the  greatest  embryonic  actress  since 
Swanson;  she  is  a  combination  of  Lenore  Ulric 
and  Swanson."  She  made  De  Mille  feel  he 
could  turn  her  from  the  bud  to  the  full-blown. 
He  could  develop  another  star.  His  weakness; 
she  deliberately  played  on  it. 

Even  we  writers  come  in  for  our  share  of 
political  maneuvering!  Studio  publicity  de- 
partments have  an  intense  craving  to  control 
what  is  said  about  their  players,  directors,  pro- 
ducers, etc.     They  do  not  always  appreciate 


reporters  and  magazine  writers  dedicated  t« 
the  purpose  of  telling  the  truth,  all  the  trutl 
and  nothing  but  the  truth. 

One  studio  publicity  department  nearly  col 
lapsed  with  apoplexy  when  Cedric  Belfragt 
wrote  something  they  didn't  like.  In  fact 
they  barred  him  from  the  lot  for  it.  Well,  i 
wasn't  very  political  and  the  studios  knew  it 
In  the  old  days  of  obvious  tactics,  the  Wampas 
a  society  of  press-men  had  handled  the  situs 
tion.  But  somehow  they  have  not  stuci 
together.  Just  how  could  they  secretly  pro 
tect  their  players  from  the  sad  truths  becomin 
known  about  them? 

So  the  studio  publicity  departments  wrappec 
themselves  together  with  the  producers  associa 
tion  and  agreed  that  if  one  studio  barred  i 
certain  type  of  story,  all  studios  would  bar  it 
They  have  tried  to  question  writers  after  inter 
views  to  discover  what  players  had  said  t< 
them,  but  it  doesn't  work. 

Well,  Cedric  Belfrage,  finally  barred  frorr 
most  studios,  went  to  England  and  has  spent ; 
year  broadcasting  the  "inside"  about  Holly 
wood  over  the  English  radio.  It  may  havi 
been  good  politics  to  bar  him — you  would  havi 
to  hear  his  radio  talks  to  make  certain. 

I  have  told  you  this  about  publicity  depart 
ments  just  to  prove  that  politics  really  d< 
reach  into  even  the  most  obscure  corners — u 
fact,  will  probably  reach  into  mine  after  this  i 
printed.  Well,  I  work  in  Hollywood  and  ma] 
have  to  learn  what  every  person  in  the  profes 
sion  must  learn — it's  the  sixth  sense  whicl 
makes  you  successful;  not  the  five  which  ari 
commonly  used  in  acting,  directing,  shootinj 
scenes,  running  studios  or  in  writing! 


A  Wet  Report 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  33  ] 


Try  it  on  a  few  of  your  fussy  authors,  Mr.  Q. 
In  a  word,  the  Russians  believe  in  Russian 
movies  for  the  Russians.  Soviet  pictures  are 
the  exclusive  dish — some  of  them  swell,  but  all 
made  by  the  government  for  the  citizens.  I 
can't  speak  too  freely,  as  I  think  Ivan  (my  pet 
spy)  is  still  tailing  me,  but  I  can  safely  say  that 
Russian  movies  are  no  boost  for  the  late  Czar, 
or  his  old  man,  either.  (Make  it  a  short  one 
this  time,  Emile.) 

V\  TELL,  you  can  see  that  with  a  host  like  Mr. 
**  Malamuth  it  would  have  been  simply  silly 
to  have  broken  my  neck  getting  out  to  the 
Sovkino  Studios  where  they  make  their 
pictures.  In  the  first  place,  I  didn't  parlay 
their  lingo,  and  in  the  second,  I'd  probably 
have  gotten  a  Red  bayonet  in  my  dignity  as  a 
spy  of  the  dirty  bourgeoisie.  So  I  talked  it  all 
over  with  my  host  over  the  liquid  TNT,  and 
we  both  decided  that  I  had  absolutely  cleaned 
up  the  Russian  movie  situation  in  a  big  con- 
structive way,  and  there  was  no  use  tempting 
fate  and  the  political  police  by  snooping 
around  after  more  dope.  Three  snoops  in 
Russia,  Mr.  Q.,  and  they  count  you  out.  It's 
back  to  the  bench  for  you,  and  off  to  the 
showers. 

So  I  drained  the  shaker,  bade  goodbye  to  my 
host  and  hostess,  took  a  last  look  at  Lenin's 
beautiful  marble  tomb  and  hopped  a  rattler  for 
Paris  (France). 

We  won't  go  into  the  trip. 

It  lasted  three  nights  and  two  days,  and  there 
wasn't  a  sign  of  a  movie  situation  on  the  train, 
though  I  hunted  high,  medium  and  low.  Ivan 
(he's  my  spy)  helped  me,  and  I've  a  dirty 
suspicion  that  if  he  hadn't  helped  me,  I 
might  have  found  a  movie  situation  some- 
where. But  no,  as  we  French  have  it.  You 
can  have  it  if  you  want  it. 

Well,  that  was  that,  and  after  unimaginable 
sufferings  (there  was  nothing  to  drink  on  the 
train  but  this  bitter  "beer"  stuff)   I  finally 


reached  Paris,  and  found  myself  absolutely  u) 
to  the  hubs  in  motion  picture  affairs.  "Here' 
where  I  hit  a  good  sock  for  old  Photoplay  ! "  ' 
thought,  as  I  gave  the  nod  to  Emile.  (He': 
right  here  looking  over  my  shoulder,  the  rascal 
And  can  that  be  "beer"  he's  carrying?  Jus 
set  it  down,  Emile,  and  Daddy  will  give  yoi 
the  centimes  as  soon  as  he  finishes  this  littL 
note  to  that  nice  Mr.  Quirk.) 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  my  work  for  you  here  i 
Paris  has  proved  quite  simple,  though  I  hav 
slaved  at  it  in  a  way. 

You'll  be  charmed  with  my  acuteness — yoi 
made  no  mistake  when  you  hired  old  Quick-on 
the-Uptake  Hall.  What  I  did  was  simply  t 
use  Emile  as  my  research  man. 

"Emile,"  I  would  say,  "when  you  apporte 
the  next  one  just  give  me  the  full  dope  on  thi 
French  movie  racket.  Are  American  picture 
and  stars  popular,  or  do  they  want  us  to  canct 
them  as  part  of  the  war  debt?" 

Then  Emile,  stopping  to  mop  the  table 
would  tell  all.  In  this  way  I  got  a  lot  of  might 
valuable  work  done.  Emile  says  that  Dietric 
has  got  Garbo  on  the  run  here.  As  a  matter  c 
fact,  one  house  is  showing  both  the  Germa 
and  English  versions  of  "The  Blue  Angel. 
And  if  they  could  dig  up  the  Finnish  an 
Arabian  versions,  they'd  show  them,  too. 

AS  has  been  reported,  Mickey  Mouse  is  hea 
man  here.  There's  a  strong  movement  O 
foot  to  elect  him  President  of  the  Republic,  nl 
placing  this  fellow  M.  Chocolat  Menier,  who  ha  | 
been  in  a  long  time.  The  best  French  talki 
ever  made  is  "Le  Million"  (The  Million).  ] 
was  directed  by  Robert  Clair,  who  is  the  Fa. 
Haired  Boy  and  White  Hope  of  the  Galli 
industry.  It's  a  cute  little  job.  A  lot  of  tl 
theaters  show  American  talkies  in  Americai 
"The  Big  House"  was  running  at  a  place  o 
the  rue  des  Malherbes  (Street  of  the  Ba 
Vegetables) . 

Emile  (he's  my  pal)  told  me  all  this  vib 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


stuff.  Why  not  send  him  a  little  check?  For 
eight  dollars  he  could  buy  the  whole  Latin 
Quarter — blondes  and  all,  the  franc  being  what 
it  is.    But  don't  take  it  off  my  check,  Mr.  Q.! 

So,  with  Emile  working  for  me,  I  dug  up  all 
the  dope  on  French  movies  in  about  a  week. 
As  a  result,  Fve  been  sitting  here  at  a  table  in 
front  of  the  Coupole  now  for  seven  days,  with- 
out moving  except  to  stretch.  Rubberneck 
guides  are  now  pointing  me  out  to  tourists  as 
the  "  Shipwreck  Kelly  of  Paris."  Some  of  them 
throw  me  centimes,  just  to  see  me  snap  at  them 
without  getting  up. 

In  this  way,  you  see,  I  avoided  making  a  long, 
weary  and  dusty  trip  to  Joinville,  where  Para- 
mount is  grinding  'em  out  in  eighty-seven 
dialects,  several  of  which  not  even  the  directors 
can  identify.  I  know  you  wouldn't  want  me  to 
wear  myself  out  needlessly,  when  I  could  clean 
up  the  entire  French  movie  situation  by  just 
asking  Emile  a  few  sharp  questions.  (See, 
Emile?  I've  put  you  in  the  letter.  Now  be  a 
good  boy  and  bring  me  just  a  spot  of  that 
brown  liquid  you  call  "Hennessy,"  and  be  sure 
it's  over  seventy  years  old.  I  simply  can't 
abide  young  Hennessy — say  around  sixty. 
Why,  sixty-year-old  Hennessy  is  still  in 
rompers,  practically.) 

WELL,  Mr.  Quirk,  there  you  are.  As  you  can 
see,  your  ace  reporter,  old  Scoop  Hall,  has 
absolutely  wiped  up  the  European  motion 
picture  situation,  gravy  and  all.  In  a  word,  it's 
fierce.  The  boys  are  a  good  five  years  behind 
Hollywood,  and  beginning  to  limp.  Tell  Mr. 
Zukor,  Mr.  Mayer  and  Mr.  Sheehan. 

I  don't  know  when  I'll  get  back  home.  I 
have  a  hunch  I  couldn't  get  up  now  if  I  wanted 
to,  so  I'll  probably  just  sit  right  on  here  all 
Summer.  When  bad  weather  comes  in  the  Fall, 
though,  Emile  will  have  to  build  a  little  shanty 
around  my  table,  and  we'll  charge  a  franc  to 
come  in  and  see  me.  For  two  francs,  tourists 
can  pull  my  beard.  For  three,  they  can  have  a 
lock  of  it  for  a  souvenir.  We  should  mop  up. 
Give  my  best  to  Max,  Gustave,  August  and 
all  the  boys  around  New  York.  If  you  have 
any  ideas  for  me,  just  cable  and  I'll  ask  Emile. 
Here's  the  Hennessy — and  here's  to  you! 
Your  best  star  reporter, 

HE  GETS  THE  NEWS! 

Leonard  Hall 

P.  S. — Please  ask  the  business  office  not  to 
quibble  and  bicker  over  my  pay-check  for  this. 
You  have  no  idea  what  hell  Emile  plays  with 
the  centimes. 

L.  H. 

P.  P.  S. — Emile  sends  regards. 


A  New  Game 

Nutty  rhymes,  a  la  Ogden  Nash,  are  hitting 
Hollywood.  The  gag  seems  to  be  to  rhyme 
players'  names:  the  harder  they  are  to  rhyme 
the  better.  Or  worse,  maybe.  Anyway,  it's 
like  this — 


So  very,  very  love- 

Ly  is  June  Collyer 
That  there  isn't  any  place 

I  wouldn't  follyer! 
-and — 

So  Hollywood-wise  is  golden 

Dorothy  Christy, 
She  knows  a  "Hollywood  tea"  means 

Gin  an'  whiskey! 


So  very  ultra-British  is  Dav- 
id Manners, 

Each  day  he  has  his  tea,  but  no 
Bananers! 
-so — 

So  sexappeally  is  this  Flo- 
Rence  Britton, 

She  burns  the  screen  when  doing 
Heavy  "ITn'.A"- 


CHOOSE 

your  ROUGE  SHADES 


this  new,  fascinating 
way.  Forget  a II  about 
matching  your  skin"  C< 


ii 


img  your  skin 
and  select  shades  to 


->"- 
A 


match  your  costume. 

Catch  fhe  spirit,  the  joyous  freedom,  of  this 
beautiful  new  fashion  .  .  .  rouge  to  harmonize 
with  your  every  costume.  The  charm  of  it .  .  . 
the  individuality  .  .  .  and  the  difference  that 
must  exist  when  all  rouge  shades  match  your 
skin — match  automatically,  without  your 
giving  a  thought  to  it.  Well  you  know  that 
usual  rouge  does  not  have  this  characteristic. 
Instead  you  have  memories  of  dire  disappoint- 
ment, times  when  you  felt  "horrid"  because 
off  color  make-up  simply  spoiled  the  glory 
of  your  gown. 

Now  what  has  happened?  •  .  .  how  can  you 
vary  the  old  idea  .  .  and  select  rouge  shades 
to  match  costume,  not  troubling  to  match 
your  skin?  Just  this:  Princess  Pat  rouge  does 
not  blot  out  the  skin.  The  natural  color  is 
caused  by  the  blood  showing  through  the  skin 
— because  the  skin  is  transparent  and  has 
scarcely  any  color  of  its  own.  Princess  Pat 
rouge  is  sympathetic  to  skin  tones.  Thus 
whatever  color  your  skin  shows — and  everyone 
has  some  color— is  retained  when  you  use 
Princess  Pat  rouge.  To  this  natural  color, 
Princess  Pat  adds.  Thus  the  beautiful  tints 
imparted  by  Princess  Pat  rouge  seem  to  come 
from  within  the  skin. 

WHY  Different  Colors  of  Costume  Absolutely 

Demand  Different  Shades  of  Rouge 
You  have  learned  how  all  shades  of  Princess 
Pat  match  every  skin,  why  the  effect  is  in- 
variably natural  and  beautiful.  But  there  is 
another  requirement.  Every  costume  you  wear 
has  a  certain  color  value.  You  recognize  this 
when  you  match  dress,  hose,  shoes,  hats,  so 
that  the  ensemble  is  harmonious.  It  is  even 
more  vitally  important  to  recognize  it  when 
you  select  rouge  shades. 
The  great  mistake  with 
rouge  has  been  this: 
you  had  just  one  shade 
—  say  medium.  To  se- 
cure more,  or  less,  color 
you  used  more,  or  less,  t 
rouge.  But  the  shade  re- 
mained the  same.  You    t 


Princess  Pat  Lip  Rouge  a  new 
sensation — nothing  less.  For  U 
docs  what  no  otlur  Up  rouge  has 
ever  done.  Princess  Pat  Lip 
Rouge  colors  that  inside  moist 
surface  of  lips  as  well  as  outside. 
It  is  truly  indelible. 


i 


■ 


The  camera  caught  Loretta 
Young — star  of  First 
National  pictures — choos- 
ing Princess  Pat  English 
Tint  to  harmonize  wUh  a 
girlish  frock  of  light  yellow. 


couldn't  use  other  shades  for  only  one  would 
match  your  skin.  So  your  rouge  that  might 
have  looked  well  with  delicate  pastel  dresses, 
was  less  than  ineffectual  with  brilliant  red 
costumes — and  so  on  through  the  range  of 
color  combinations  of  costume  and  complexion. 

Marvelous  New  Beauty  If  You  Follow  These 
Hints  For  Choosing  Rouge 

For  gowns  of  all  red  shades,  select  Princess 
Pat  Vivid,  or  Princess  Pat  Squaw.  Even  the 
palest  blonde — one  who  has  thought  she  simply 
could  not  wear  bright  red — is  beautiful  in 
flaming  colors  through  use  of  Vivid  or  Squaw 
to  set  the  right  color  note  in  the  cheeks.  For 
gowns  of  purple,  violet,  blue,  use  Squaw, 
Theatre  or  Medium.  When  you  wear  yellow, 
orange,  green,  your  cheeks  are  wonderful  with 
Princess  Pat  English  Tint.  With  soft  pastel 
costumes,  achieve  the  complexion  note  of  cool, 
delicious  serenity  with  Princess  Pat  Medium 
or  Theatre.  For  tan  effect,  use  Princess  Pat 
^^^^^^  <Swmmcrtan.  For  evening  wear- 
use  Princess  Pat  Nite.  This  in- 
deed is  a  marvelous  shade,  since 
it  responds  as  gloriously  to  artifi- 
cial light  as  the  most  perfect 
daytime  rouge  does  to  sunlight. 

Set  this  week  end  set 
-SPECIAL 

The  very  popular  Princess  Pat  Week 
End  Set  for  this  COUPON  and  25c 
(coin).  Easily  a  month's  supply  of 
almond  base  powder  and  FIVE  other 
delightful  Princess  Pat  preparations. 
Beautifully  decorated  boudoir  box. 


rincess 


Pat 


CHICAGO, U.S. A.  (IN  CANADA,  93  CHURCH  ST.,  TORONTO) 


PRINCESS  PAT. 

2709  S.  Wclb  St.,  Cliii-aco.     Dcpt.  A-I56S 

Enclosed  find  25c  for  which  send  me  the  Princes.  P.t 
Week  End  Set. 

Namo  (print) 

Street 

City  nnd  State 


I  IO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


for 

Clean-limbed 
Loveliness 

THERE  is  no  uncertainty  in  re- 
moving hair  with  X-Bazin . . . 
its  action  is  sure,  safe  and  quick. 

This  creamy  depilatory  leaves 
your  skin  smooth,  white  and 
hairless  instead  of  with  the  blue, 
shaved  look  of  the  razor.  The 
future  growth  of  hair,  too,  is 
definitely  discouraged.  Insist  on 
X-Bazin — accept  no  substitutes. 

At  drug  and  department  stores 
—  50c  in  large  tube;  sample 
tubes  lOcin  5  and  10  cent  stores. 

yS^-Bazin  is  the  reliable 
hair  remover  for  legs, 
arms  and  under-arms 
that  expect  to  be  seen! 

Hall  &  Ruckel,  Inc. 
Est.  1848      Bklyn.,  N.Y. 


X-TRA 

quicA 


IOU  can  make  just  as 
good  pictures  as  the 
PROFESSIONALS 


Robert  C.  Bruce,  \uorU-famecl 
camera  artist,  tells  of  twenty 
years'  adventures  and  ex- 
periencr*  in  photography 


Read  "Camera  Secrets  of 
Hollywood"  before  you 
make  your  next  picture. 

It  will  tell  you  how  to 
make  prize  winning  pho- 
tos and  better  movies. 

*       *       * 
Send  $1.25,  which  includes  postage.  Address  Dept.K. 

CAMERA  SECRETS 
PUBLISHING  COMPANY 

Metropolitan  Studios    •    Hollywood,  California 


He  Kept  on  Working 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  51 


Nevertheless,  it  definitely  started  him  on  a 
stage  career.  He  joined  a  stock  company,  and 
played  seventy-two  weeks  in  stock,  largely  in 
Rochester,  New  York.  He  played  seventy 
characters  during  this  period,  mostly  old  men, 
and  calls  it  his  "college  course."  It  was  during 
this  time  that  he  gained  most  of  his  experience 
in  reading  lines,  being  prepared  for  emergencies 
and  getting  an  all-around  training  he  couldn't 
have  gotten  otherwise. 

It  also  taught  him  how  to  live  on  practically 
nothing  a  week,  for  many  times  the  troupe  was 
left  stranded  and  had  to  get  back  to  town 
as  best  it  could.  It  was  just  one  of  those  good 
old  trouper's  experiences  without  which  no 
real  actor's  life  seems  to  be  complete. 

With  this  long  apprenticeship  behind  him, 
he  returned  to  Broadway  again  and  began  the 
steady  succession  of  flops  that  was  his  un- 
happy lot  on  the  legitimate  stage.  He  played 
in  "Arleen  O'Dare,"  "One  of  the  Family," 
"Dawn,"  "Garden  of  Eden,"  "The  Carolin- 
ian," "Legend  of  Lenora"  and  others. 

Finally,  he  played  in  something  that 
approximated  a  hit,  Edgar  Selwyn's  produc- 
tion "Possession."  It  was  in  this  play  that 
Samuel  Goldwyn  saw  him,  liked  him  and 
signed  him  for  the  Banky  film  from  which  he 
was  immediately  fired  by  Santell. 

HAVING  been  detoured  on  the  road  to  fame 
and  fortune  so  many  times  before,  this  in- 
auspicious start  in  pictures  didn't  keep  Bob 
from  working  his  way  into  a  part  in  "So  This 
Is  College,"  which  was  his  first  work  in 
pictures. 

But  it  didn't  stop  M-G-M  from  kicking  him 
right  out  again,  either.  "So  This  Is  College" 
took  forty-nine  shooting  days  besides  two 
months  of  rehearsals  and  retakes.  He  had  a 
second  part,  and  by  the  time  he  had  finished 
it  he  was  forgotten.  When  he  applied  for  his 
next  picture,  an  indifferent  hand  waved  him 
out  of  the  way. 

He  was  beginning  to  weaken  by  now,  but  in- 
sisted he  had  to  work  to  eat  and  that  he  still 
liked  eating. 


"Well,  they're  looking  for  a  boy  for  'Three 
Live  Ghosts'  at  United  Artists,"  the  casting 
director  told  him,  so  he  scurried  over  there. 

It  is  commonly  supposed  M-G-M  procured 
that  part  for  him.  They  didn't.  Bob  sought 
out  T.  Freeland,  United  Artists  director,  and 
sold  himself  for  the  part. 

TOUT  Bob  was  worried.  His  self-confidence 
■'-'had  received  a  jolt  from  which  it  was  but 
slowly  recovering.  The  M-G-M  contract  he 
had  signed  was  optional  and  the  six  months 
was  almost  up.  Metro  had  made  no  move 
to  renew  it. 

He  was  worried  and  paid  little  heed  to  his 
role  in  "Three  Live  Ghosts."  Freeland  knew 
something  was  wrong,  but  instead  of  writing 
him  a  note  such  as  Faversham  had  done,  or 
firing  him  as  Santell  had  done,  made  in- 
quiries and  discovered  the  real  reason  for 
Bob's  indifferent  acting. 

Here  Bob  got  a  real  break.  Freeland  put 
two  and  two  together. 

"If  we  telephone  M-G-M  and  tell  them  we 
are  interested  in  Montgomery  and  want  to 
know  if  they  are  going  to  renew  his  contract, 
they'll  think  we  want  to  sign  him  and  then 
they'll  probably  renew  it.  And  I'll  get  some 
acting  out  of  him." 

So  Freeland  took  a  chance  and  framed  the 
call. 

"We'll  call  you  back  and  let  you  know  in  a 
couple  of  hours,"  was  the  reply  from  M-G-M. 

The  outcome  was  that  Metro  renewed  and 
Montgomery,  with  his  contract  in  his  pocket, 
gave  a  corking  performance  in  "Three  Live 
Ghosts."  When  he  returned  to  his  home  lot 
he  was  no  longer  a  stepchild,  he  was  the  leading 
man  in  "Untamed,"  with  Joan  Crawford. 

A  steady  succession  of  parts  then  followed, 
his  work  attracting  mounting  notice  until 
Metro,  impressed  not  only  with  his  acting,  but 
with  the  1,500  letters  he  received  from  fans 
every  week,  made  him  a  star. 

Which,  of  course,  is  the  right  ending  to  a 
story  of  an  ambitious  young  man  who  just 
kept  on  working  and  refused  to  be  discouraged. 


Alabama  &  London 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  47  ] 


through,  very  few  have  kicked  over  the  traces 
sufficiently  to  embark  on  a  career  and  life  of 
their  own,  and  granted  the  first  two,  to  make 
successes    of    themselves. 

Tallulah  Bankhead  finally  rebelled,  became 
first  at  least  a  mild  success  on  the  New  York 
stage,  became  later  the  greatest  stage  star  of 
London,  and  in  her  first  talking  picture, 
achieved  a  personal  triumph  as  an  actress  and 
as  an  American  counterpart  of  the  type  of 
screen  performer  now  in  vogue — the  other 
similar  types  being  Garbo  and  Dietrich. 

But  where  Dietrich  has  husband  and  child, 
and  where  Garbo  is  more  or  less  of  a  recluse, 
Tallulah  Bankhead  has  lived  gregariously,  un- 
hamperedly,  uninhibitedly. 

She  is  a  modern  of  moderns  in  this  respect. 

"Please,  Jean — !"  (This,  pleadingly,  when 
she  was  sixteen) . 

HERE'S  a  cable  from  C.  B.  Cochran,  the 
London  producer,"  she  announced  when 
she  was  twenty-one,  to  a  roomful  of  people  in 
New  York  after  appearing  with  mild  success 
for  several  years  on  the  New  York  stage. 
"The  cable  states  that  he  has  decided,  after 
all,  not  to  use  me  in  his  production  of  'The 
Dancers/  with  Gerald  Du  Maurier.  He's 
found  a  better  type  in  London,  he  says. 


"Well,  my  friends,  I've  never  received  this 
cable!" 

Whereupon  she  tore  it  up. 

"As  I  have  beautiful  eyes  and  legs,  I'll  get 
that  role,"  she  announced  in  that  deep, 
husky,  and  at  times,  so  very  determined  voice 
of  hers,  a  voice  that  can  be  meltingly  lovely 
where  she  wants  it  to  be.  And  then  and  there 
she  borrowed  the  money  to  go  to  London. 

The  eyes  and  legs  worked  their  spell.  The 
star  whom  Mr.  Cochran  had  engaged  was  paid 
her  regular  salary  not  to  appear  on  the  stage 
during  the  run  of  the  play.  And  Tallulah  got 
the  job. 

The  inhibitions  were  gone  in  1921,  you  see — ' 
the  man-shy  Southern  girl  had  already  become 
one  of  the  spokeswomen  of  the  new  post  war 
independence  in   women. 

Any  woman,  wherever  she  may  hail  from, 
whatever  may  be  her  background,  is  doing 
something  in  a  big  way  when  she  breaks  away 
and  stands  on  her  own  feet,  but  when  a  tradi- 
tion ridden  Southern  girl  does  it,  it  is  doubly 
remarkable. 

Back  in  Huntsville,  Alabama,  where  she 
was  born,  she  always  had  an  ambition  to  go 
on  the  stage,  but  it  remained  in  the  back  of 
her  head.  It  never  really  came  out  until  after 
her  Washington,  D.  C,  debut,  when  she  left 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


I  I  I 


for  New  York  and  the  stage  (with  no  training) 
with  an  elderly  aunt  as  a  chaperon.  Her 
father  supported  both  for  a  time,  although  he 
was  never  really  in  sympathy  with  her  stage 
career.  In  a  year  or  so  she  was  caught  up 
in  the  aggressively  unconventional  post-war 
atmosphere  of  New  York  and  the  theater, 
and  beginning  to  get  fair  roles  in  plays, 
Tallulah  decided  she  didn't  want  or  need  a 
chaperon. 

She  began  to  be  on  her  own  in  one  way  or 
another,  and  in  a  few  years  the  change  from 
the  pleading,  Southern  girl  to  the  indepen- 
dent woman  was  more  or  less  complete. 

BEING  only  partially  financially  independent 
in  New  York  for  the  reason  that  she  was  only 
mildly  successful  in  the  theater,  London  did 
the  rest.  She  was  an  instantaneous  hit  there, 
and  she  soon  became  the  center  of  a  vortex 
where  loose  and  heterogeneous  society,  the 
literati  and  the  theater  met  and  mingled.  All 
sorts  of  stories  were  printed  about  her,  some 
true,  most  of  them  untrue. 

Her  American  vitality  was  refreshing,  her 
adventuresomeness  in  life  and  love  caused 
more  and  more  interest,  and  the  press  was 
either   worshipful  or  insinuating. 

She  lived  recklessly,  threw  her  money  away, 
and  only  since  she  has  signed  with  Paramount 
at  an  enormous  salary  has  she  been  able  to 
pay  back  her  English  debts. 

"You'll  never  have  a  cent,  Miss  Bankhead," 
her  secretary  told  her  just  the  other  day  in 
New  York,  where  she  has  already  become  the 
center  of  another  vortex  of  society  and  lesser 
worlds,  and  where  she  is  still  careless,  irrespon- 
sible, and  still  an  experimenter  in  life  and  love. 

"Oh  well,"  she  replied,  "life  only  lasts  a  little 
while." 

Then  she  turned  to  Gary  Cooper,  whom  she 
had  only  met  that  day,  he  being  in  New  York 
on  his  way  to  Europe,  and  whom  she  had 
liked  and  had  immediately  annexed  as  a  guest 
at  a  cocktail  party  in  her  apartments  that 
afternoon. 

"Isn't  he  sweet,  my  dears!"  she  said  to  her 
guests  and  to  the  somewhat  bewildered 
young  man  of  Montana.  "Isn't  he  perfectly 
divine!    He's  so  slow!" 

She  thrives  on  flattery;  she  adores  it  from 
either  sex  to  the  point  of  absolute  weakness; 
and  she  must  be  the  center  of  the  stage,  and 
to  be  that  she  will  be  amusing,  shocking,  or 
even  turn  handsprings — and  this  sport,  in- 
cidentally, she  indulges  in  at  parties  more 
often  than  you  would  think — or  let  loose  a 
volley  of  gay  Rabelaisian  language. 

There  are  times,  too,  when  her  show-off 
complex  so  rises  that  she  will  suddenly  an- 
nounce to  a  party  of  friends — only  intimate 
friends,  of  course — that  inasmuch  as  she  is  so 
beautiful  in  her  bath  they  must  be  accorded 
the  privilege  of  watching  her  in  it. 

She  is,  though,  a  first  rate  comedienne  in 
real  life,  no  matter  what  act  she  is  giving  at 
the  moment. 

Her  vitality  is  tremendous  and  she  talks 
all  the  time. 

SO  eager  is  she  to  collect  crowds  around  her 
for  a  good  time  that  she  is  frequently  known 
to  gather  up  an  entire  group  at  a  night  club,  a 
restaurant  or  a  speakeasy,  ask  them  to  join 
her  party,  usually  a  large  one,  and  proceed 
with  them  to  her  apartments  where  they  may 
eat,  drink  and  be  merry.  Meanwhile  if  she 
becomes  bored,  for  she  drinks  comparatively 
little  when  she  is  working,  she  simply  shuts 
herself  in  her  rooms  and  goes  to  sleep — leaving 
her  party  to  exhaust  itself  under  the  watchful 
eyes  of  her  two  secretaries,  staunch  English 
girls  whom  she  has  brought  over. 

It  is  small  wonder,  then,  that  she  is  in 
demand  by  all  classes  of  New  York  society, 
just  as  she  was  the  darling  of  London  from 
the  aristocracy  on  down. 

"What  is  your  ambition?"  she  was  asked. 

"To  have  none,"  she  replied. 

"Why  did  you  want  to  go  in  the  talkies?" 

"To  be  near  Greta  Garbo  and  Robert 
Montgomery,"  she  answered. 


IES, MADAM,  thousands 
are  turning  to  tnem  every  day 

—  these  delicious  tasting  pure  yeast 
tablets . . .  the  yeast  that  is  all  yeast!'9 


SO  different— so  delightful  in  taste— so  easy  to 
eat  in  this  modern  form !  Crunchy  little  tablets 
of  pure  yeast,  as  good  and  as  pleasant  to  eat  as 
candy.  That's  why  thousands  are  turning  to  Yeast 
Foam  Tablets — the  pure,  dry,  modern  yeast  that's 
all  yeast.  Just  try  it ;  learn  this  new  easy  way  to 
get  the  full  health  benefits  of  yeast. 

Doctors  recommend  Yeast  Foam  Tablets  for 
skin  and  complexion  disorders,  digestive  or  intes- 
tinal disturbances,  underweight,  nervous  or  run 
down  conditions.  For  pure,  dry  yeast  such  as  this, 
is  the  richest  known  natural  food  source  of  the 
"B"  and  "G"  vitamins.  So  pure,  so  concentrated, 
so  uniform  in  vitamin  content  are  Yeast  Foam 
Tablets  that  they  have  become  the  standard  for 
vitamin  studies  as  conducted  by  the  U.  S.  Govern- 
ment and  leading  American  universities. 

If  you  have  found  ordinary  yeast  too  unpleasant, 
just  try  Yeast  Foam  Tablets!  Chew  them  as  thou- 
sands do  and  enjoy  their  good  nut-like  flavor.  Or 
swallow  them  whole.  Because  they  are  pasteurized. 
Yeast  Foam  Tablets  cannot  form  gas  nor  cause 
fermentation.  Hence  they  are  safe  for  all  ages. 

Ask  your  druggist  for  Yeast  Foam  Tablets— the 
yeast  that's  good  to  eat  and  good  for  you.  The 
ten-day  bottle  costs  but  50  cents.  Made  and  guar- 
anteed by  the  Northwestern  Yeast  Co.,  Chicago; 
World's  Largest  Makers  of  Dry  Yeast. 


On  The  Air  Every  Sunday  Afternoon 
from  2:30  to  3:00,  Eastern  Daylight 
Saving  Time,  the  melodious  "  Yeast 
Foamers"  over  NBC-WJZ  Network 
and  all  supplementary  stations  from 
coast  to  coast. 


SEND  FOR  FREE  SAMPLE 

Northwestern  Yeast  Co. 

1750  N.  Ashland  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  free  sample  and  descrip- 
tive circular. 

P 


Address.. 


I  12 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


JEANETTTE    LOFF POPUUAR    STAR 


Sh-h-h ! 

(a  secret!) 

Not  a  soul  will  know  just  -what  you  have 
done  to  make  your  hair  so  lovely!  Certainly 
nobody  would  dream  that  a  single  shampoo- 
ing could  add  such  beauty — such  delightful 
lustre — such  exquisite  soft  tones! 

A  secret  indeed — a  beauty  specialist's  se- 
cret! But  you  may  share  it,  too!  Just  one 
Golden  Glint  Shampoo*  will  show  you  the 
way!  At  your  dealers',  25c,  or  send  for  free 
sample! 

*(Note:  Do  not  con/use  this  -with  other  shampoos 
that  merely  cleanse.  Golden  Glint  Shampoo  in 
addition  to  cleansing,  gives  your  haira  "tiny-tint" 
—a  -usee  little  bit— not  much— hardly  perceptible. 
But  how  it  does  bring  out  the  true  beauty  of 
your  train  individua  I  shade  of  hair!) 


J.  W.  KOBI  CO. 


630  Rainier  Ave.,  Dept.  H,  Seattle,  Wash. 
Please  send  a  free  sample. 


Name 


Address. 
City 


.  State. 


Color  of  my  hair. 


SUBSTITUTE 


DUPLICATE 


THIS  wonderful  liquid  mascara  which  is  used  by  the  stars 
of  Hollywood,  leaves  your  lashes  soft  and  silky,  yet  it  is 
absolutely  waterproof.  Kathenne  MacDonald's  Lash  Cos/ 
mctic  has  never  been  duplicated,  although  substitutes  are 
common. 

You  find  this  lash  cosmetic  gives  no  hint  of  artificiality.  It 
contains  no  varnish  so  cannot  flake  nor  break  your  lashes. 
Easily  removed  with  cold  cream.  Cry,  swim,  get  soaked  in 
the  rain. ..no  water  can  make  it  streak  or  run.  Handy  purse 
set  gold  capped  bottle,  black  or  brown,  $i. 

KATHERONE  MLcDONALD'S 
£$        LASH 
T       COSMETIC 

Kathenne  MacDonald,  Hollywood,  California 


CORNS 

and  tender  toes  —  relieved 
in  1  minute  by  these  thin, 
soothing,  healing  pads.  Sate! 
Also  sizes  for  Callouses,  Bunions 

DlSch  oil's 

Zinopads 


Put  one  t 
the  pain  is  gone  J 


The  Enemy  of  Beauty — Over-Exercise 

[  COXTINTJED  FROM  PAGE  31  ] 


The  muscles  in  her  legs  stood  out  like  oranges 
on  a  tree. 

It  took  Sylvia  a  month  of  pounding  to  get 
them  in  shape  again. 

Alice  White  has  the  perfect  figure,  according 
to  Sylvia.  About  five  feet  tall,  she  is  dainty 
and  petite,  without  an  ounce  of  surplus  flesh 
and  yet  well  rounded.  But  not  long  ago  Alice 
began  to  study  tap  dancing.  After  just  a  few 
weeks'  lessons  you  could  notice  the  difference. 
She  had,  in  order  to  appease  the  goddess  of 
beauty,  to  give  it  up. 

And  yet  the  stars  must  play.  They  must 
have  some  form  of  recreation.  Upon  their  es- 
tates are  beautiful  tennis  courts  and  swimming 
pools  that  rival  the  ancient  baths  of  Rome. 
Bridle  paths  of  unsurpassed  beauty  wind 
round  tie  Hollywood  hilh,  and  the  beaches 
stretch  white  and  voluptuously  inviting  in  the 
California  sun. 

Must  all  this  be  taboo?  Must  all  this  be 
sacrificed  upon  the  altar  of  beauty?  Sylvia 
will  make  a  slight  compromise.  If  you  must 
be  athletic  here  is  your  schedule: 

Twenty  minutes  of  tennis  a  day — not  too 
strenuously  played. 

Nine  holes  of  leisurely  golf  every  other  day. 
But  you  must  not  combine  both  golf  and 
tennis.     You  may  take  your  choice. 

Swimming.  Do  not  overdo  it.  It  is  one  of 
the  finest  of  all  health  builders.  It  keeps  you 
out  in  the  sun  and  fresh  air  and  develops  and 
beautifies  the  body  if  you  do  not  go  at  it  too 
strenuously.  You  can't  be  a  channel  swimmer 
and  a  beauty. 

Horse  back  riding  once  a  week  for  an  hour. 
No  more! 

No  archery. 

No  mountain  hiking.  Walk,  you  may.  But 
always  on  the  level  ground.  Sylvia  refuses 
to  take  a  customer  who  climbs  hills,  ladders  or 
stairs. 

THIS  is  the  mandate  from  Queen  Sylvia,  the 
flesh  moulder,  and  she  is  not  alone.  A 
certain  famous  dressmaker  refuses  to  design 
clothes  for  those  who  look  upon  the  golf  course 
when  it  is  green.  Nor  will  she  take  anyone  who 
plays  tennis. 

Gloria  Swanson  plays  some  tennis  but  no 
more  than  Sylvia,  who  is  her  law,  allows. 
Ann  Harding  plays  a  few  sets  of  tennis. 


Mary  Astor  rides  horseback  but  not  too  much 
for  the  sake  of  beauty. 

However,  Sylvia  gives  her  own  exercises  for 
each  individual  case  and  these  must  be  done 
for  ten  minutes  a  day.  She  does  not  allow  her 
clients  to  so  much  as  step  inside  a  gymnasium 
but  she  gives  stretching  and  relaxing  exercises 
so  skillfully  that  the  body  tingles  afterwards. 

After  the  exercise  there  must  be  a  cold 
shower  or  a  tepid  bath.  No  hot  showers  or 
baths. 

"COR  Sylvia's  ambition  is  not  to  tear  down 
*-  muscles  that  have  been  built  up  but  to  make 
them  firm  and  smooth  under  the  skin.  Stretch- 
ing, relaxing  and  lifting  the  body — these  are 
the  only  exercises.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  al- 
though Sylvia  will  compromise  with  the  lovers 
of  sports,  she  prefers  that  no  athletics  be 
taken  at  all.  Constance  Bennett,  for  instance, 
does  none  of  them. 

"I'd  rather,"  says  Sylvia  emphatically, 
"take  on  the  reduction  of  an  habitual  drunkard 
with  all  that  flabby  fat  than  to  pound  down 
a  woman  who  is  extremely  athletic." 

Health  periodicals  recommend  all  sorts  of 
sports.  These  may  be  well  and  good  for  health, 
but  they  are  the  deadly  foe  of  beauty.  And 
Sylvia  is  prepared  to  listen  to  the  howl  of 
protest.  For  Sylvia  doesn't  give  a  masseuse's 
darn  what  people  say.  She  must  be  obeyed 
and  she  remains  unimpressed  by  stardom. 

They  tell  a  story  of  her  first  meeting  with 
Nancy  Carroll. 

"I'm  so  happy  to  know  you,"  said  Nancy. 

"You  should  be,"  said  Sylvia.  "When  you 
know  me  better  you  won't  have  that  spare  tire 
around  your  waist." 

So  there  is  nothing  left  for  the  stars  of  Holly- 
wood but  miniature  golf  and  ping-pong.  To 
these  Sylvia  does  not  object. 

The  model  for  beauty  that  is  Hollywood's 
and,  of  course,  the  rest  of  the  world's,  is  a 
figure  five  feet  tall  and  weight  less  than  a 
hundred  without  one  misplaced  muscle. 

No  matter  how  inviting  the  ocean,  nor  how 
friendly  the  tennis  courts,  nor  how  green  the 
grass  upon  the  golf  courses — stay  away  from 
them  as  you  would  a  streptococcus  germ  if  you 
are  prone  to  overdo  the  use  of  them.  The  stars 
of  Hollywood  have  learned  their  lesson.  So 
must  you  if  you'd  be  as  beautiful  as  they! 


Why  They  Said  Joan  Was  "High  Hat" 


COXTINTED  FROM  PAGE  65  ] 


she  had  not  known  existed.  He  taught  her 
the  beauty  of  words  on  paper,  the  feeling  for 
musical  harmony,  the  appreciation  of  form 
and  color  upon  canvas.  He  taught  her,  also, 
which  is  more  important,  that  the  winning  of  a 
dancing  cup  is  not  the  ultimate  aim  of  life  and 
that  one  simply  cannot  exist  in  a  room  clut- 
tered with  wildly  painted  Coney  Island  dolls. 

And  then  she  met  Doug — and  if  there's 
anything  about  that  you  don't  know  it's 
simply  because  you  can't  read. 

Shortly  after  her  wedding  the  gossip  began 
"Joan  is  'high  hat.'  "  "Now  that  she's  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Fairbanks  family  her  old  friends 
aren't  good  enough  for  her."  "You  should  see 
the  way  she  puts  on  the  dog."  "Oh,  Joan 
doesn't  know  me  any  more — I  knew  her  when." 

This  hurt  Joan,  of  course,  which  was  im- 
portant to  her  but  not  very  important  to  you. 
The  important  part  is  that  Joan  has  changed 
utterly,  completely.  Today  Joan  Crawford 
Fairbanks  is  no  more  Lucille  Le  Sueur  than 
Will  Rogers  is  Mahatma  Gandhi.  But  Holly- 
wood is  intolerant  of  changes — particularly 
changes  for  the  better. 


Joan  has  become  a  woman — a  woman  of 
importance,  a  woman  of  poise  with  a  clear 
thinking  mind.  She  has  done  everything  to 
improve  herself.  It  is  natural  that  since  she 
is  so  changed,  so  much  the  real  woman,  she 
should  find  no  more  time  for  the  superficial 
friends.  It  is  natural  that  her  new  acquaint- 
ances must  be  those  who  can  give  her  some- 
thing in  return  for  all  her  fineness.  It  is 
natural  that  she  should  want  a  beautiful, 
tastefully  furnished  home.  It  is  natural  that 
she  should — after  doing  what  most  intense 
kids  her  age  do,  leave  home,  then  return  to 
find  companionship  with  her  mother.  It  is 
natural  that  she  should  change  the  harsh 
middle  Western  twang  of  her  voice  into  a  soft 
cultured  one.  It  is  natural  that  she  should 
throw  out  of  her  life  all  the  cheapness  and 
tawdriness  with  which  it  abounded  and  take 
the  quiet  culture  with  which  she  surrounds 
herself.  And  yet  it  is  for  that  reason  that  she 
is  called  something  that  she  is  not — "high 
hat."  Her  loyalty  to  those  who  have  stood 
by  her  and  gloried  for  her  in  her  blossoming 
is  Eke  some  fine  marble  statue. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


But  you  hear  it  everywhere.  The  general 
jinion  at  the  studio,  among  the  prop  boys  and 
ectricians  is  that  she's  changed — for  the 
orse.  "No,  Joan  ain't  the  good  scout  she 
sed  to  be.  She  ain't  got  no  time  for  us  fellows 
j  more."  And  now  is  as  good  a  moment  as 
ly  to  clear  up  that  prop  boy-electrician 
leory. 

It  is  the  firm  belief  that  if  the  workers  on 
jur  set  like  you,  you're  swell  and  if  they  don't 
ju're  a  heel.  But  the  set  workers  like  you  so 
isily.  All  you  need  do  is  to  call  them  by 
leir  first  names,  ask  them  about  the  sick 
ife,  give  them  gifts  at  Christmas  and  tell 
lem  that  but  for  them  you  wouldn't  be  where 
ju  are.  It  is  an  easy  and  a  diplomatic 
:sture  and  I've  discovered  that  invariably 
le  men  and  women  whose  careers  have  been 
iilt  on  cold  calculating  shrewdness  are  the 
.vorites  of  the  workers  who  are  not  clever 
lough  to  see  through  the  game.  They  also, 
:  course,  like  the  cheap  little  kids  who  make 
big  fuss  over  them. 

N  the  old  days  Joan  spent  a  goodly  portion 
of  her  time  clowning  with  these  people.  But 
hen  she  acquired  the  innate  dignity  that  be- 
ings to  her  and  when  she  realized  that  she 
id  a  great  many  important  things  to  do  to 
lake  up  for  her  lack  of  cultural  education,  she 
id  not  have  time  to  waste.  So  the  stigma 
high  hat"  was  put  upon  her.  Now  she  is  a 
erson — a  first  rate,  excellent  person — whereas 
»e  was  just  a  madcap  kid  before. 

No,  dear  ma'am  and  sir,  Joan  isn't  "high 
it"  and  don't  let  anybody  in  Hollywood  tell 
du  she  is.  The  belief  has  sprung  up  because — 
ell  you  know  about  the  prophet  in  his  own 
>untry.  Joan  is  a  Hollywood  product, 
[ollywood — and  it  can  be  so  undiscerning  at 
mes — watched  her  grow.  Hollywood  knew 
er  when. 

As  I  said  at  the  beginning  had  she  come  to 
[ollywood  already  blossomed  I  wouldn't 
e   correcting  an   impression   now. 

But  Hollywood  is  set  in  its  ways  and  when 
little  hey-hey  girl  decides  to  become  a  lady 
ad  does  it  successfully — Hollywood  is  so 
infused  and  bewildered  that  it  casts  the  per- 
>n  from  itself — because  it  knows  nothing  else 
)  do. 

Millions  of  girls  may  well  emulate  Joan 
Irawford  and  go  "high  hat"  if  that  was  her 
rime. 


^Vhere  Now,  Clara  ? 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  53  J 

lie  last  split  second.  And  when  he  sent  the 
Dwel  sailing  into  the  ring,  signifying  that  the 
nce-invincible  Battling  Bow  was  on  the  point 
f  going  down  for  the  count  of  ten,  it  meant 
hat  there  wasn't  a  laundryman's  chance  that 
he  fool  had  any  more  box-office  fight  in  her — 
t  the  moment. 

For  nobody  need  fool  himself — when  the  con- 
ract  of  a  star  or  featured  player  is  bought  up, 
r  allowed  to  lapse,  it  means  only  one  thing. 
t's  Rule  A,  No.  1,  in  the  motion  picture  guide- 
ook. 

r\  THEN  big  stars  go'down  the  chute,  there's 
**  just  one  answer — namely,  they  have 
eased  to  lure  enough  kopecks  into  the  little 
icket  window. 

Any  other  given  reason  is  so  much  smoke 
creen,  and  can  safely  be  handed  the  Bronx 
heer.  You  may  be  told  that  the  actors  are  ill, 
ir  voluntarily  retiring  to  raise  wallabies  in 
Australia,  or  to  open  a  chain  of  filling  stations 
D  the  Gobi  Desert.  These  sops  are  just  nice 
»uts  for  the  players. 

And  that  is  the  answer  to  Clara  Bow's  swift 
lide  down  the  well-greased  toboggan. 

Bad  publicity  can  be  forgiven  and  forgotten. 
K  little  alleged  misunderstanding  on  a  gambling 
lebt  can  be  chuckled  off,  as  good  clean  girlish 


A  $5.00  PRODUCT 
WITHIN   THE    REACH    OF    EVERYONE 

NEW    LOW    PRICE 


(y^mmzeiituf  JX 


\e^ai^cWcw 


TODAY,  ZIP  is  the  only  Epilator 
available  for  actually  destroying 
hair  growths,  by  removing  the 
cause.Tested  over  a  period  of  twenty 
years,  ZIP  has  met  every  requirement 
and  has  been  used  by  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  women  for  permanently 
destroying  hair  on  the  face,  arms, 
legs  and  underarms. 
So  simple.  So  quick.  ZIP  leaves  no 
trace  of  hair  above  the  skin;  ...  no 
prickly  stubble  later  on; ...  no  dark 
shadow  under  the  skin  .  ..That  is  why 
so  many  stage  and  screen  stars  as  well 
as  Beauty  Specialists  recommend  ZIP. 
ZIP  is  pleasant  to 
use,  safe,  and  de- 
lightfully fragrant.  It 
is  this  product  which  I 
use  at  my  Fifth  Avenue 
Salon.  It  acts  immedi- 
ately and  brings  last- 
ing results.  Now,  in  its 
new  package,  it  may 
be  had  at  $1.00.  Your 
disfiguring  hair 
growths  will  not  only  be  removed  but 
also  destroyed  under  the  skin. 

ITS  OFF  luaudc  ITS  OUT 

To  permanently  destroy  hair  askjor 

ZIP  Epilator—  ITS  OFF  because  ITS  OUT 

The  only  registered  Epilator  •   aa 

New  Package     $    ^ 

(de  luxe  size  $5.00) 


At  my  Salon,  Treatment  or 
FREE  Demonstration 


And  if  you  still  insist  on  using  the 
razor  at  times,  ...  take  this  advice 
from  one  who  knows:  Protect  the 
skin  before  applying  the  razor. 
Simply  spread  ZIP-SHAVE  over 
the  surface  . . .  and  shave.  The  ap- 
plication of  ZIP-SHAVE  not  only 
speeds  up  the  rozor,  but  overcomes 
chap  as  well.  Tube,  50c.  (Treat  your 
husband  too  tube  of  ZIP-SHAVE 
if  he  dreads  the  morning  shave.) 


Jrlme.  Berthe  Discovers 
Safe  Cream  Depilatory 

'As  delightful  as  your 

choicest  cold  cream 

New  York — For  twenty  years  Mme.  Berthe  has" 
warned  against  the  use  of  cream  depilatories. 

i  Now  she  has  finally  succeeded  in  formulating  a 
product  which  she  can  conscientiously  recom-^| 
mend.    Recent  recognition  was  given  to  Mme. 

^Berths"" 

JUST  spread  the  new  ZiP  Depila- 
tory Cream  over  the  hair  to  be 
removed,  rinse  off  with  water,  and 
admire  your  beautiful 
hair-free  skin.  If  you 
have  been  using  less 
improved  methods,  you 
will  marvel  at  this  white, 
fragrant,smooth  cream; 
safe  and  mild,  but  ex- 
tremely rapid  and  effi- 
cacious. ZiP  Depilatory 
Cream  leaves  no  un- 
pleasant odor,  no  irri- 
tation. It  is  the  most  mo- 
dern, instantly  removes 
every  vestige  of  hair, 
and  eliminates  all  fear- 
of  later  stubble  or  stimulated  growths. 

For  removing  hair  and  discouraging 
the  growth,  ask  for 
ZiP  Depilatory  Cream 
{Perfumed) 

Giant   Tube 


Nlato*1. 

creaH 


50/ 


562  FIFTH  AVE.,  NEW  YORK 
ENTRANCE  ON   46th  STREET 


If  dealer  cannot  supply  you  .  .  use  coupon 

MADAME   BERTHE' 
562  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York 

I  enclose  i Please  send  me 

O  ZIP  Epilator-Fragrant  (J1.00) 
DZiP  Perfumed  Depilatory  Cream  (50c) 
DA  Tube  of  ZIP-SHAVE  (50c) 

Name 

Address 

City  A  State_ 


ii4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


"At  breakfast, at  luncheon 
at  tea,  and  frequently  in  the 
evenind,  I  enjoy  an  ice  cold 
Collede  Inn  Tomato  Juice 
Cocktail  ' 


You  Can  Still  Enter 
Photoplay's  $5,000 
Picture  Puzzle  Contest! 

SUBSCRIBE  FOR 

PHOTOPLAY 

Subscription  rates  will  be 

found  on  page  116.  Use  the 

convenient  coupon. 


CONVINCE 

YOURSELF 

Accept 

Special 

Offer 


FORM 
DEVELOPED 

■pLAT  chested?  Fashion  demands  the 
*■  full,  rounded  shapeliness  of  the  wom- 
anly form.  The  stars  of  Hollywood  are 
developing  their  feminine  charm.  You, 
too,  can  quickly  add  extra  fullness  where 
needed.     My  new  method   plumps  out 

the  hollows  and  builds  firm.  vtMilhiiil  limue.  Just 
TRY  my  wonderful  MIRACLE  CREAM  and 
special  developinz  instructions! 

GIVEN  Write  Today 

Send  onlv  $1.00  for  large  jar 
of  NANCY  LEE  MIRACLE  CREAM  (in  plain 
wrapper)  and  I  will  include  my  special  Figure- 
Moulding  Course  and  complete  advice.  Take 
advantage  of  this  big  offer— write  AT  ONCEl 

NANCY  LEE     Dept.  x-s 

816  Broadway,        New  York,  N.  Y. 


Ieuiu 

Powder   Puffs 

STERILIZED  for  a  HEALTHY  SKIN 

as  fine   a   puff  as  you   can   buy     "1  f\ 
Sold  Exclusively  at 


F.W.  W00LW0RTH  CO  *«»  stores 


fun.  A  sweetheart  every  six  months  is  just  a 
maidenly  prank. 

But  failure  to  draw  is  the  Eighth  Deadly  Sin, 
and  means  a  sigh,  a  parting  handclasp  and  a 
quick  exit  from  the  payroll. 

As  I  have  said,  Paramount  gave  Clara  every 
shot  it  had  in  the  locker.  They  tried  her  in 
schoolgirl  comedy.  They — God  help  us! — let 
her  sing !  They  let  her  make  hot  love  to  Fred 
March  in  a  sailor  suit.  In  response  to  the 
widespread  public  feeling  that  she  could  do 
drama  if  given  a  crack  at  it,  they  turned  her 
loose  to  emote  in  "Kick  In,"  last  and  saddest 
of  the  opera.  If  Clara  could  have  played  the 
zither,  or  walked  the  slack  wire,  Paramount 
would  have  fixed  up  some  pictures  for  her.  For 
Bow,  in  her  great  days,  meant  beaucoup  dol- 
lars at  the  ticket  wagon. 

"KJTOTHING  worked — not  even  the  prayers, 
1-^  letters  and  boosting  of  as  loyal  a  crowd  of 
fans  as  any  star  ever  had.  The  Bow  pictures 
fell  away,  and  those  with  their  flapping  ears  to 
the  Hollywood  ground  knew  that  it  couldn't  be 
long.    And  it  wasn't! 

I'd  feel  happier  about  Clara's  chances  now  if 
I  weren't  pretty  darned  sure  that  the  day  the 
microphone  smote  Hollywood  was  the  day  that 
she  was  slated  inevitably  for  the  discard. 

For  in  the  days  of  blessed  silence  she  was  all 
lure  and  life  and  sprightliness.  She  was  blister- 
ing Youth  incarnate.  She  was  the  cutest 
peppiest  girl  in  town.  That  rebellious  hair, 
those  outspoken  eyes,  that  eloquent  and  admir- 
able girlish  figure — all  spoke  louder,  to  her 
fans,  than  any  talkie  apparatus  yet  devised 
She  was  part  and  parcel  of  the  silent  screen. 

And  when  the  silversheet  went  vocal,  blooie 
went  the  illusion.  The  little  wild-cat  went  self- 
conscious,  and  hence  tame.  She  wasn't  geared 
for  lines.  That  untrained  and  uninteresting 
voice  came  like  a  blow  at  the  base  of  the  skull. 
It  became  painfully  evident  that  she  lacked  the 
essential  equipment  of  an  audible  actress — 
that  the  microphone  had  her  stopped  dead  in 
her  tracks. 

And  from  that  day  to  this  she  has  never 
gotten  up  steam  again! 

Without  cultural  background,  Clara  didn't 
build  a  mental  and  spiritual  present,  as  some 
of  the  greatest  of  our  talkie  stars  have  done. 
While  others  studied,  perfected  themselves  and 
grew  both  as  women  and  artists,  Clara  was 
having  beaux  and  fun. 

Life  was  pretty  much  hoopla  and  hey-hey 
punctuated  by  periods  of  black  despair  when 
she  realized  that  a  bigger  and  finer  parade  was 
going  by,  and  she  wasn't  marching  in  it. 

The  truth  is,  no  doubt,  that  the  Bow  girl  has 
never  grown  up  in  the  fullest  sense.  In  the 
great  spiritual  and  mental  essentials  that  turn 
a  feather-brained  girl  into  a  smart  and  re- 
sourceful woman,  Clara  is  still  the  bouncing 
child  of  "It." 

AND  now,  for  the  incurable  kiddishness  that 
probably  isn't  her  fault  at  all,  Clara  pays. 

And  here  she  is  at  twenty-six,  with  a  new 
way  to  make  in  the  world.  She's  had  six  years 
in  the  public  heart  and  the  big  money,  but  it  is 
probable  she  isn't  too  well  set  financially. 
According  to  sound  evidence  in  the  public( 
prints,  appalling  sums  have  slipped  through 
her  plump  fingers. 

Without  reticence,  restraint,  sound  judg-: 
ment,  thorough  training  in  voice  and  deport- 
ment— Clara's  in  a  tough  spot,  and  we  can  only 
pull  hard  for  her  and  wish  her  the  best.  For 
not  one  of  us  forgets  the  pleasant  and  even 
exciting  hours  she  gave  us  in  the  heydays  not 
so  long  ago. 

She'll  get  more  chances — plenty.  For  a 
once-great  property  is  not  going  to  be  allowed 
to  rust,  not  when  it's  twenty-six  years  old, 
pretty,  and  sound  in  wind  and  limb. 

And  the  new  chances  will  call  for  a  brand- 
new  deal.  What  will  it  be?  If  you  and  I  knew, 
we  could  make  a  million  dollars  for  us — and  for 
Clara  Bow. 

The  answer  will  be  known  soon.  Mean- 
while, Clara  Bow  is  in  exile!  Is  it  Elba — or  St. 
Helena? 


SHE  WASN'T  A  DIVORCEE  but 
SHE  BELIEVED  THAT  STRANGERS 


COULD  KISS! 


A  free  woman 
with  a  free 
SOUL 


\ 


She   was   bored  —  she 
wanted  a  new  thrill! 


She  gambled  with 
love  —  but  found  the 
stakes  too  high. 


"Shearer  superb— 
Barry  more  magnifi- 
cent" say  the  critics. 


Sheam 


ui 


She  was  born  in  an  age 
of  FREEDOM!  Who 
could  blame  her  for 
seeking  the  sweet  fruits  of  living? 
Beautiful  Norma  Shearer  again 
brings  you  a  screen  entertainment 
of  countless  thrills.  You  will  de- 
clare it  her  greatest  yet! 


Clarence  BROWN'S 

production  of  the  novel  by  Adela  Rogers  St.  Johns 

with  a  great  cast  including 

LESLIE  HOWARD— LIONEL  BARRYMORE 

JAMES    GLEASON    and    CLARK    GABLE 


Metro* 
^yoldwyn 


Mayer 


y^OMJidle 


'e/t  uoun 


f 


G& 


OAHJ 


Don't  Rasp  Your  Throat 
With  Harsh  Irritants 


"Reach  for  a 
LUCKY  instead" 


Now!  Please!— Actually  put  your  finger 
on  your  Adam's  Apple.  Touch  it— your 
Adam's  Apple — Do  you  know  you  are  ac- 
tually touching  your  larynx? — This  is 
your  voice  box — it  contains  your  vocal 
chords.  When  you  consider  your  Adam's 
Apple  you  are  considering  your  throat— 
your  vocal  chords.  Don't  rasp  your 
throat  with  harsh  irritants— Reach  for 
a  LUCKY  instead  — Remember,  LUCKY 
STRIKE  is  the  only  cigarette  in  America 
that  through  its  exclusive  "TOASTING" 
process  expels  certain  harsh  irritants 
present  in  all  raw  tobaccos.  These  ex- 
pelled irritants  are  sold  to  manufacturers 
of  chemical  compounds.  They  are  not 
present  in  your  LUCKY  STRIKE.  And  so 
we  say  "Consider  your  Adam's  Apple." 


-, 


- 

:; 

:.. 

5 
It 

Si 
fa 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


"5 


The   Audience   Speaks   Its    Mind 


Paul  Lukas  is  so  romantic  and  yet  so  mas- 
uline.  He  has  an  air  of  wickedness  that  makes 
im  irresistible. 

Loretta  Van  Dam, 
San  Francisco,  Calif. 

How  I  love  Norma  Shearer's  laugh!  1 
Irjena  A.  Marko, 
Danville,  Va. 

The  superb  acting  of  Ricardo  Cortez  in  "Ten 
lents  a  Dance"  so  charmed  me  that  I  saw  the 
icture  twice,  just  to  watch  his  performance. 
Sarah  A.  Kinxaid, 
West  Philadelphia,  Penna. 

MOVIE  ROMANCE 

Those  love  scenes  in  the  movies — how  they 
ave  been  subject  to  praise  and  criticism  alike ! 
ut  they  have  been  the  means,  at  least  in  part, 
[  keeping  alive  between  my  wife  and  myself 
le  sweetheart  love  of  other  days. 

We  have  been  happily  married  for  eleven 
ears.  Always  we  try  to  bear  in  mind  we  are 
;ill  sweethearts,  and  to  show  it.  After  a  movie 
i  which  there  are  love  scenes,  we  usually  feel 
i  a  more  romantic  mood  and,  speaking  for 
lyself ,  I  realize  that  instead  of  merely  a  wife, 
have  a  sweetheart  by  my  side. 

So  I  say  that  if  anything  on  earth  can  help 
)  keep  husband  and  wife  happy  and  as  loving 
5  they  were  before  marriage,  the  romantic 
1ms  can  do  that,  provided  both  are  willing  to 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  12  ] 

cooperate.  The  one  ruling  passion  of  the  home 
is  love,  and  the  movies  do  keep  the  fires  burn- 
ing for  those  who  are  responsive. 

A.  G.  Leisman, 
Milwaukee,  Wis. 

CHAPLIN 

"City  Lights"  is  the  most  perfect  picture  I 
have  seen.  Charlie  portrays  love,  sympathy 
and  an  innermost  sense  of  refinement,  despite 
his  rags.  Being  a  great  artist,  he  always  stops 
at  the  right  moment  in  his  comedy  and  his 
pathos.  He  sent  one  away  with  a  feeling 
that  where  happiness  abides,  one  is  rich 
indeed. 

Edwin  Lemare,  Jr., 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

Charlie  Chaplin  does  not  seem  to  realize 
that  the  picture-going  public  has  changed  con- 
siderably in  the  past  fifteen  years.  Much  of 
the  slapstick  comedy  that  made  Mr.  Chaplin 
famous  in  earlier  days  no  longer  appeals  to  the 
public  as  a  whole.  Most  important  of  all,  Mr. 
Chaplin  has  not  yet  learned  that  vulgarity  and 
humor  are  two  different  things. 

He  succeeded,  as  usual,  in  giving  an  effective 
touch  of  pathos  in  "City  Lights."  It  is  this 
quality  that  makes  one  feel  he  could  develop 
a  higher  and  cleaner  type  of  comedy  than  he 
has  ever  given  us. 

Norma  Cooley, 
Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


FROM  SCHOOL  TEACHERS 

As  a  teacher  of  senior  English  and  dramatics 
in  high  school,  I  have  noticed  that  students 
who  go  to  picture  shows  frequently  have  easy, 
good  manners,  taste  in  dress  and  an  enviable 
poise.  They  are  much  easier  to  train  in  scene 
work  and  have  more  imagination. 

Those  who  would  denounce  the  whole  mov- 
ing picture  industry  need  to  be  reminded  that 
the  intellectual  stimulus  provided  by  the  mod- 
ern screen  play  is  a  real  factor  in  America's 
progress.J 

Mabel  Brown  Sherard, 
Belton,  So.  Car. 

School  teaching  is  said  to  be  one  of  the  surest 
routes  to  nervous  prostration,  but  so  far  I  have 
been  able  to  avoid  it,  thanks  to  the  movies. 
When  I  feel  as  though  I  were  about  to  explode 
over  the  hundred  and  one  irritating  things  that 
are  always  occurring  in  the  class  room,  I  go  to 
a  picture  show.  I  forget  my  troubles  for  a 
while  and  my  nerves  get  a  chance  to  "unkink." 

The  movies  keep  me  from  having  to  go 
to  a  nerve  specialist  —  or  even  an  insane 
asylum! 

Gertrude  Wilgus, 
Ashland,  Ohio 

Please  give  us  more  picture  with  tragic  end- 
ings.   Tragedy  is  truer  to  life. 

Annie  M.  Ticker, 
Meridian,  Miss. 


Befo 


re 


you  light  the 


Beech-Nut  Gum 


MAKES    THE     NEXT     SMOKE    TASTE     BETTER! 

Buy  a  package  of  Beech -Nut  Gum  when  you  buy  cigarettes  or  cigars. 
Chew  it  between  smokes... It  has  the  same  effect  as  a  good  meal 
because  it  stimulates  your  taste  sense... makes  each  smoke  taste  as 
good  as  the  first  one  after  breakfast... makes  your  smoking  always 
enjoyable.  REMEMBER,  there  is  no  other  gum  quite  so  good  as  Beech-Nut. 


Made  by  Beech-Nut  Packing  Company— Also  makers  of  BEECH-NUT  FRUIT  DROPS 


Also  in 

Spearmint  and 

Wintergreen  fla  vors 


n6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


It  Is  NOT  Too  Late 
to  Enter  Photoplay's 


$ 


5,000 


Picture  Puzzle 
Contest 

(.Seepage  60  for  particulars  regarding   Contest) 

So  that  our  readers  need  not  miss  a 
single  issue  of  Photoplay  during  this 
contest  we  are  making  a  special  six 
month  rate  of  $1.25. 
If  you  haven't  a  copy  of  June  and 
July  Photoplay  Magazine,  take  ad- 
vantage of  our  Special  Six  Months' 
Contest  rate,  fill  out  the  coupon  be- 
low and  send  $1.25  (Canada  $1.50; 
Foreign  $1.75) — we  will  send  you  the 
first  set  of  Puzzle  Pictures  which  ap- 
peared in  June  Photoplay,  a  copy  of 
July  Photoplay  showing  the  second 
set,  and  enter  your  subscription  for 
the  balance  of  5  months,  starting 
with  the   September  issue. 

What  a  Subscription 

to  Photoplay 

Will  Bring  You 

Fascinating  pictures  of  photoplayers 
and  illustrations  of  their  work  and 
pastime. 

Scores  of  interesting  articles  about 
the  people  you  see  on  the  screen. 
Splendidly  written  short  stories,  some 
of  which  you  will  see  acted  at  your 
moving  picture  theater. 
The  truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth,  about 
motion  pictures,  the  stars,  and  the  industry. 
You  have  read  this  issue  of  Photoplay  so 
there  is  no  necessity  for  telling  you  that  it  is 
one  of  the  most  superbly  illustrated,  the  best 
written  and  the  most  attractively  printed 
magazines  published  today — and  alone  in  its 
field  of  motion   pictures. 

Send  money  order  or  check  to 

PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE 

Dept.  CP-8-31,  919  N.  Michigan  Ave, 
CHICAGO 

The  coupon  below  is  for  your  convenience 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 

Dept.    CP-8-31,    919    N.    Michigan    Ave., 

Chicago. 

Gentlemen: 

D  I  enclose  $1.25  (Canada,  #1.50;  For- 
eign, $1.75),  for  which  you  will  kindly 
enter  my  subscription  for  PHOTOPLAY 
MAGAZINE  for  six  months,  sending  me 
July  PHOTOPLAY  and  five  more  issues 
starting  with  the  September  number.  Also 
mail  me  the  set  of  cut  pictures  from  June 
PHOTOPLAY. 


Na 


Street  Address 

City State. 


JUNE  MOON— Paramount.— You'll  like  this  one. 
Ring  Lardner  wrote  the  wisecracking  lines  and  Jack 
Oakie  puts  them  over  with  a  bang.     (April) 

JUST  A  GIGOLO— M-G-M.— William  Haines  in 
a  spicy,  amusing  offering.  But  leave  the  children  at 
home.     (July) 

JUST  LIKE  HEAVEN— Tiffany  Productions.— A 
simple  little  romance  between  a  toe  dancer  and  a 
balloon  peddler.  Fifteen-year-old  Anita  Louise  is  the 
heroine.     (Feb.) 

KEPT  HUSBANDS-  -Radio  Pictures.— Lively  en- 
tertainment. Dorothy  Mackaill  and  Joel  McCrea  an 
attractive  pair  and  the  still  beautiful  Clara  Kimball 
Young  returns  to  us.     (April) 

KICK  IN — Paramount. — They  tried  hard  to  make 
Clara  Bow  dramatic,  sympathetic  and  emotional  in 
this  one.     Regis  Toomey  is  great.     (July) 

*KIKI — United  Artists. —  Presenting  a  new 
Mary  Pickford,  saucy  and  sophisticated  in  a 
grand  comedy.  You  can  safely  take  the  kids.  Regi- 
nald Denny  is  the  lead.     (April) 

LADIES'  MAN — Paramount. — William  Powell  as 
a  sympathetic  and  attractive  gigolo,  charms  Olive 
Tell,  Carole  Lombard  and  Kay  Francis.  Entertain- 
ing picture.   (June) 

LADY  REFUSE3,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— If  you 
want  a  good  cry,  here's  your  chance.  Rather  an  old 
story,  but  Betty  Compson,  Gilbert  Emery  and  John 
Darrow  make  it  realistic.     (April) 

LAST  PARADE,  THE— Columbia.— Another 
gangster  picture  and  good  too,  with  thrills,  suspense, 
romance  and  laughs.  Jack  Holt  and  Tom  Moore  are 
rivals  for  Constance  Cummings'  favor.  Jack  wins. 
(May) 

LAUGH  AND  GET  RICH— Radio  Pictures.— 
Misadventures  of  a  boarding  house  mistress,  played 
by  Edna  May  Oliver,  and  her  chronically  tired  hubby, 
Hugh  Herbert.    Good  for  plenty  of  laughs.    (May) 

•  LAWYER'S  SECRET,  THE— Paramount  — 
Clive  Brook,  Charles  Rogers,  Richard  Arlen, 
Fay  Wray  and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  performances. 
Intense  drama.     (July) 

LIGHTNING  FLYER,  THE— Columbia.— Jimmy 
Hall  as  the  wild  young  son,  who  makes  good  and  wins 
the  love  of  a  good  woman — Dorothy  Sebastian.  Not 
so  good;  then  again,  not  so  bad.    (May) 

LITTLE  CAFE,  THE  (Le  Petit  Cafe)— Para- 
mount.— Chevalier's  French  version  of  "Playboy  of 
Paris"  and  simply  great.  Gay  and  charming  with 
more  songs  added  and  his  wife,  Yvonne  Vallee. 
(April) 

•  LONELY  WIVES— Pathe  —  Edward  Everett 
Horton  great,  in  a  side-splitting  farce.  Patsy 
Ruth  Miller,  Esther  Ralston  and  Laura  La  Plante 
are  the  girls  involved.     (April) 

LOVE  HABIT,  THE— British  International.— 
British  conception  of  a  French  bedroom  farce.  Very 
heavy.     (April) 

LOVE  KISS,  THE— Celebrity  Productions.— A 
nice  little  college  comedy  with  plenty  of  romance 
and  laughter.     (March) 

MAD  GENIUS,  THE— Warners.— Magnificently 
produced  and  photographed,  but  John  Barrymore's 
artistry  is  so  perfect  in  an  unsympathetic  role  that  the 
story  leaves  a  bad  taste.     (July) 

MADONNA  OF  THE  STREETS— Columbia.— 
Evelyn  Brent  triumphs  over  the  old  yarn  about  the 
regeneration  of  a  lady  crook.    (Feb.) 

MAD  PARADE,  THE— Liberty  Productions.— 
The  woman's  side  of  the  war  done  brilliantly  by  an 
all-feminine  cast.     (July) 

•  MALTESE  FALCON,  THE  —  Warners.  — 
Gripping  mystery  story  from  the  novel  by  the 
same  name.  The  sleek  Ricardo  Cortez  plays  the 
demon  detective  superbly  and  Bebe  Daniels  does  ex- 
cellent work.     Don't  miss  it.     (June) 

MAN  FROM  CHICAGO,  THE— Elstree  Pro- 
ductions.— The  British  go  hay-wire  on  this  story  of 
Chicago  gangsters  and  their  ladies.  Skip  this  one. 
(March) 


MAN  OF  THE  WORLD— Paramount.— Good 
picture;  not  much  action  but  plenty  of  drama  and  a 
great  performance  by  William  Powell.  Carole  Lom- 
bard is  the  lovely  heroine.    (May) 

MAN  WHO  CAME  BACK,  THE— Fox.— Farrell 
and  Gaynor  sink  to  the  depths,  but  love  reforms 
them.       Not    a    "7  th    Heaven"    but    worth    seeing. 

(March) 


MANY  A  SLIP— Universal.— Joan  Bennett  and 
Lew  Ayres  in  a  wise-cracking  dialogue  comedy.  You 
may,  but  you  probably  won't,  like  it.     (March) 

MEET  THE  WIFE— Columbia.— Lew  Cody  and 
Laura  La  Plante  excellent  in  a  hilarious  farce  taken 
from  the  old  stage  play.     Plenty  of  laughs.     (June) 

MEN  CALL  IT  LOVE— M-G-M.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Among  the  Married.")  Sophisticated 
story  of  married  life  in  the  country  club  set.  Adolphe 
Menjou  excellent.  Norman  Foster  and  Leila  Hyams 
good  as  the  young  lovers.  Not  for  the  children.  (A  pril) 

MEN  ON  CALL— Fox.— Edmund  Lowe  wastes 
his  time  and  talents  in  a  bad  story.     (March) 

MEN  WITHOUT  LAW— Columbia.— Buck  Jones 
performs  his  Western  heroics  in  an  interesting  Span- 
ish locale  and  wins  the  beautiful  Carmelita  Geraghty. 
(Feb.) 

MIDNIGHT  SPECIAL,  THE— Chesterfield  Prod. 
— Nothing  new,  but  plenty  of  excitement.  Good  for 
the  kids.     (April) 

MILLIE  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Helen  Twelvetrees 
splendid  in  this  tense  drama.  Enough  tears  and 
chuckles  to  make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March) 

•  MILLIONAIRE,  THE— Warners.— George 
Arliss — need  we  say  more?  This  time  he  plays 
a  wealthy  American  automobile  manufacturer.  Eva- 
lyn  Knapp  is  the  attractive  daughter  and  David 
Manners,  the  business  partner.    See  it.    (May) 

MONSTERS  OF  THE  DEEP— Nat.  Spitzer 
Prod. — Fishing  adventures  in  Magdalena  Bay,  off  the 
Mexican  coast,  where  mammoth  fish  abound.  For 
fish  fans.     (July) 

MR.  LEMON  OF  ORANGE— Fox.— El  Brendel. 
starring,  in  some  mistaken  identity  stuff.  Riotously 
funny  in  spots,  and  Fifi  Dorsay  helps  a  lot.      (May) 

MY  PAST — Warners. — (Reviewed  under  the  title 
"Ex-Mistress.")  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Bebe  Daniels — par- 
don! The  Ben  Lyonses  in  an  ultra-modern  love 
story  which  is  highly  entertaining.     (Feb.) 

NEVER  THE  TWAIN  SHALL  MEET— M-G-M. 

— Lavishly  produced  remake  of  the  old  silent,  but 
not  nearly  so  good.  Leslie  Howard  great  in  some 
scenes.     (June) 

NIGHT  BIRDS  —  British  International.  — 
Mystery  melodrama,  with  much  a-do  over  a  killing. 
Not  so  bad.     (March) 

NO  LIMIT — Paramount. — Clara  Bow  as  a  flapper, 
an  usherette  and  a  gangster's  moll,  and  wearing 
some    amazing    clothes.      You    may    be    amused. 

(March) 

NOT  EXACTLY  GENTLEMEN— Fox.— Three 
men's  battles  for  a  map,  a  girl  (Fay  Wray)  and 
riches.  Top-notch  entertainment.  Victor  McLaglen, 
Lew  Cody  and  Eddie  Gribbon  share  acting  honors. 
(April) 

ONCE  A  SINNER— Fox.— The  oldest  type  of 
triangle  story.  The  really  fine  performances  of 
Dorothy  Mackaill,  Joel  McCrea  and  John  Halliday 
make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March) 

ONLY  SAPS  WORK— Paramount.— Mr.  Leon 
Errol  and  his  trick  legs  stagger  away  with  this  comedy 
about  lovers  and  thieves.    (Feb.) 

PAGLIACCI— Audio  Cinema  Prod.— Bad  grand 
opera  poorly  transferred  to  the  screen.    (May) 

PAINTED  DESERT,  THE— Pathe.— A  Westerr 
which  you'll  like.  Bill  Boyd  is  the  virile  hero  anc 
Helen  Twelvetrees  the  girl.     (March) 

•  PARLOR,  BEDROOM  AND  BATH- 
M-G-M. — It's  a  howl,  this  farce.  Buster  Kea 
ton  and  Charlotte  Greenwood  race  for  honors.  Ass 
heavy  lover.  Buster  is  amazing.     (April) 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


II7 


PARTY  HUSBAND — First  National.— Dorothy 
Mackaill  and  James  Rennie  work  hard  as  the  newly- 
weds,  but  the  story  is  weak.     (June) 


PHANTOM  OF  THE  DESERT,  THE— Syndi- 
cate.—Jack  Perrin  in  a  true-to-type  Western.  Plenty 
of  hard  ridin'  and  fast  shootin'.    (Feb.) 


PRINCESS  AND  THE  PLUMBER,  THE— Fox. 

— A  young  American  millionaire  (Charles  Farrell) 
and  a  beautiful  princess  (Maureen  O'Sullivan).  You 
know  what  happens — a  harmless  little  light  comedy. 
(Feb.) 


•  PRODIGAL.  THE  —  M-G-M.  —  (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Southerner") — Lawrence 
Tibbett  in  a  gay,  charming  comedy— and  how  he  sings ! 
Esther  Ralston,  too,  and  more  beautiful  than  ever. 
(March) 


PUBLIC  ENEMY,  THE— Warners— A  gangster 
picture  that  is  lining  the  thrill-seekers  up  at  the  box- 
office.     (June) 


•  QUICK  MILLIONS  —  Fox.  —  Another  excel- 
lent gangster  picture  if  you  go  for  them.  Spen- 
cer Tracy  is  the  leader  of  the  racketeers,  and  you'll 
like  Sally  Eilers.     (June) 

RANGO — Paramount. — A  stirring  jungle  picture 
with  a  real  story.  Magnificent.  Different.  Don't 
mistake  it  for  "just  another  wild  animal  picture." 
(Feb.) 


REACHING  FOR  THE  MOON— United  Art- 
ists.— Doug  Fairbanks  bounds  through  a  dizzy  com- 
edy as  a  go-getting  stock  broker.  Different  for  Doug 
and  very  merry.  Bebe  Daniels  is  the  big  romance. 
(Feb.) 


REDUCING— M-G-M.— Marie  Dressier  and  Polly 
Moran  cut  up  in  a  beauty  parlor.  Need  we  add  you'll 
die  laughing?     (Feb.) 


•  RESURRECTION— Universal.— Talkie  ver- 
sion of  the  old  tale  is  a  triumph  for  Lupe 
Velez.  She's  all  fire,  beauty  and  sincerity.  Well 
directed  and  John  Boles  sings  nicely.     (March) 


RIDER  OF  THE  PLAINS,  A— Syndicate.— 
Grand  old  Western  full  of  hokum,  and  a  happy, 
happy  ending.     (May) 


RIDIN*  FOOL.  THE— Tiffany  Prod— Great 
little  Western.  Will  furnish  the  kids  with  plenty  of 
thrills.     (April) 


RIGHT  TO  LOVE,  THE— Paramount.— Ruth 
Chatterton  in  a  real  dramatic  gem.  Ruth  and  the 
technicians  collaborate  in  putting  over  the  most  con- 
vincing dual  role  ever  filmed.    (Feb.) 

ROYAL  BED,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell 
Sherman  directs  himself  in  a  smart,  amusing  comedy 
about  modern  royalty.  Mary  Astor  is  a  gorgeous 
princess  and  the  veteran  Nance  O'Neil,  a  grand 
queen.     (Feb.) 


•  ROYAL  FAMILY  OF  BROADWAY,  THE 
— Paramount. — A  brilliantly  done  comedy  of 
actors  at  home.  Fredric  March  does  the  work  of  his 
life.  Ina  Claire  is  marvelous.  Don't  miss  this  one. 
(Feb.) 


SCANDAL  SHEET— Paramount.— A  great  news- 
paper drama  with  George  Bancroft  as  the  managing 
editor  and  Kay  Francis  as  his  wife.  A  meaty  movie 
with  a  knockout  kick.    (Feb.) 


•  SEAS  BENEATH— Fox.— Dashing  adventure 
story  of  submarines  during  the  war.  George 
O'Brien  does  a  grand  job.  All  the  family  will  like 
it.     (March) 


SECOND  HONEYMOON,  THE— Continental. 
— Farce  comedy  of  domestic  felicity  with  Josephine 
Dunn  and  Edward  Earle.     Entertaining.     (March) 


•  SECRET  SIX,  THE— M-G-M.— Still  another 
gang  story  but  with  more  humor.  Splendid 
cast,  includes  Wallace  Beery,  Lewis  Stone,  Clark 
Gable,  Johnny  Mack  Brown  and  Jean  Harlow.  (June) 

•  SEED — Universal. — Interesting  and  realistic 
story  based  on  Charles  Norris'  novel.  John 
Boles  doesn't  sing  but  his  acting  is  superb.  Lois 
Wilson  and  Genevieve  Tobin  both  excellent.  Don't 
miss  it.     (June) 

•  SHE-WOLF,  THE— Liberty  Prod.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Mother's  Millions")— Humor, 
pathos,  bright  dialogue  and  splendid  acting  make 
this  a  delightfully  entertaining  story.  May  Robson 
is  the  mother.     (April) 


Here's  Simple  Way 

To  Really  Get  Rid  Of 

Arm  or  Leg  Hair 

That   Utterly  Banishes    Coarsened  Re-growth 


A  Discovery  That  is  Proving  to  the 
Wonder  of  the  Cosmetic  World  That 
Hair  Can  Not  Only  Be  Removed  In- 
standy,  But  Its  Reappearance  Delayed 
Amazingly. 

A  way  of  removing  arm  and  leg  hair  has 
been  found  that  not  only  removes  every  ves- 
tige of  hair  instantly,  but  that  banishes  the 
stimulated  hair  growth  thousands  of  women 
are  charging  to  the  razor  and  less  modern 
ways.  A  way  that  not  only  removes  hair, 
but  delays  its  reappearance  remarkably. 

It  is  changing  previous  conceptions  of  cos- 
meticians about  hair  removing.  Women  are 


Not  only  is  slightest  fear  of  coarsened  re-growth 

banished  but  actual  reappearance  of  hair  is 

slowed  amazingly. 

flocking  to  its  use.  The  creation  of  a  noted 
laboratory,  it  is  different  from  any  other 
hair  remover  known. 

What  It  Is 

It  is  an  exquisite  toilet  creme  resembling  a 
superior  beauty  clay  in  texture.  You  sim- 


By  a  total  lack  of  stubble,  you  can  feel  the  dif- 
ference between  this  and  old  ways. 


ply  spread  it  on  where  hair  is  to  be  removed. 
Then  rinse  off  with  water. 

That  is  all.  Every  vestige  of  hair  is  gone; 
so  completely  that  even  by  running  your 
hand  across  the  skin  not  the  slightest  trace 
of  stubble  can  be  felt.  And — the  reappear- 
ance of  thai  hair  is  delayed  surprisingly! 

When  re-growth  finally  does  come,  it  is 
utterly  unlike  the  re-growth  following  the 
razor  and  old  ways.  You  can  feel  the  differ- 
ence. No  sharp  stubble .  No  coarsened  growth. 

The  skin,  too,  is  left  soft  as  a  child's.  No 
skin  roughness,  no  enlarged  pores.  You  feel 
freer  than  probably  ever  before  in  your  life 
of  annoying  hair  growth. 

Where  To  Obtain 

It  is  called  Neet — and  is  on  sale  at  all  drug 
and  department  stores  and  beauty  parlors. 
Costs  only  a  few  cents.  2S4A 


Neet 


Cream 

Hair    Remover 


Beautifully  Developed 


IS  FASHIONS  DECREE— a  full. 

rounded  form  of  feminine  grace  and 

charm.     If  you  are  flat-chested  and 

unattractive,  investigate  the 

National    Developer.     Sold 

for  fifteen  years — praised  by 

,     hundreds.  Write  for  booklet, 

I    "BEAUTY  CURVES  DE- 

.\   VELOPED."  sent    FREE 

— no  obligation. 

THE  OLIVE  COMPANY 
Dept.  P  Maniiou,  Colo. 


FOR  YOUR   SKIN 


TRY 


LABLACHE 

Face    Po  wd  e  r 

You  will  love  its  delicacy ;  its  clinging-ness;  its  perfume. 

FOR    OVER    TWENTY     YEARS 
Readers    of    Photoplay     have    recog- 
nized Its   accepted  standard  of   quality 

S Mid fM  FREE  saraplflo  Ben UttC«    125  Km?sl»n Si    Beslon  Miss 


n8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


Freckles 

VANISH    LIKE    MAGIC 


"DEMOVE  those  embarrassing  freckles. 
■*■*'  Surprise  your  friends  with  a  new 
velvety  soft,  crystal  clear  complexion. 
You  can  —  with  Stillman's  Freckle 
Cream.  It  bleaches  them  out  while 
you  sleep.  Done  bo  quickly  and  easily 
— secretly  too.  The  first  jar  proves  its 
magic   worth.     At  all   drug  stores. 

Stillman's  «fl 

Freckle  Cream  t/U 

Removes  Freckles — Whitens  Skin 


V RE*     1  The   Stitlman    Company, 
r> e"rt|  Aurora,  III..  U.  S.  A. 

I ■  RO0W*J  M  B'J   Beautv     Dept..    send    free 

IUi^^  booklet.     Tells    why    you    hr.ve 

■  W0^^^^^  freckles — how   to   remove  them.       ■ 

■       Miss.     Mr. 
or  Mrs 

Address 


"Yes,  Betty,  well 

always  be  BLONDES" 

SUNNY  golden  curls . .  .  smart  blonde  coiffure. 
Mother  and  daughter  keeping  young  together 
— thanks  to  Blondex.  This  special  blonde  hair 
shampoo  not  only  prevents  darkening  —  but 
safely  brings  back  the  true  golden  color  to  dull, 
drab,  faded  light  hair.  The  bright,  gleaming 
lights^  return — makes  the  hair  soft  and  silky. 
No  injurious  chemicals  Not  a  dye.  Invigorates 
the  scalp.  Ask  any  Blondex  user!  At  all  drug 
and  department  stores. 

Would  you  BELIEVE  it? 

3  to  4  inches  reduction  IMMEDIATELY! 

AND  so  good  looking.  Dr.  Walter's  latest 
.  REDUCING  BRASSIEKE  is  so  dainty 
that  women  often  wear  it  over  the  loveliest 
underthings.  It  reduces  most  quickly  when 
worn  next  to  the  skin— gives  you  that  trim, 
youthful    figure    that    the    new    styles 
demand    Send  your  bust  measurement. 
—  and  IMAGINE  — it  costs 

ONLY  «2.25 

"O   OBTAIN  slender 
ankles  and  calves  try 
Dr.  Walters  special  extra  strong  flesh- 
colored    rubber   ankle   bands.    They  will 
support  and  shape  the  ankles  while  re- 
ducing them.  Can  be  worn  un-   JO   HC 
derthehoseand  fit  likeaglove.      «*•  Id 
Send  ankle  and  calf  measure,    per  pair 

Dr.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER,  389  Fifth  Ave.,  N.  Y. 


Enter  the  $5,000  Contest! 

SUBSCRIBE  FOR 

PHOTOPLAY 

Subscription  rates  will  be  found  on 
page  1 16.     Use  the  coupon. 


SHIPMATES— M-G-M  —  Plenty  of  pep  and  ac- 
tion, plus  the  United  States  Navy,  make  this  a  veri- 
table gale  of  laughter  from  beginning  to  end.  Robert 
Montgomery  heads  the  cast.     (June) 

SINGLE  SIN,  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Nothing 
new,  but  splendidly  handled.  Kay  Johnson  does  some 
fine  acting.  Bert  Lytell,  Mathew  Betz  and  Paul 
Hurst  lend  good  support.     (April) 

6  CYLINDER  LOVE— Fox.— An  amusing  farce 
with  a  pretty  obvious  plot.     (July) 

•SKIPPY — Paramount. — Jackie  Cooper  as 
Skippy,  and  Bobby  Coogan  as  Sooky  entirely 
lovable  in  this  grand  picture  based  on  Percy  Crosby's 
famous  comic  strip.  Young  and  old  alike  will  love  it. 
(May) 

SKY  RAIDERS,  THE— Columbia.— Gangsters  in 
the  airl  Thrilling  stuff  and  good  entertainment. 
(July) 

•     SMART  MONEY— Warners.— Moves  as  fast 
as  the   money  on  the   gambling  tables  in  it. 
Plenty  of  laughs  and  excitement.     (July) 

•  SMILING  LIEUTENANT,  THE  —  Para- 
mount.— One  of  the  breeziest  and  most  tuneful 
entertainments  in  a  long  time.  Chevalier  at  his  best, 
under  Lubitsch  direction.     See  it.     (July) 

SOUS  LES  TOITS  DE  PARIS  (Under  the  Roofs 
of  Paris) — Tobis. — Skilful  pantomine  makes  this 
enjoyable  French  dialogue  picture  comprehensible 
without  knowledge  of  that  language.  Two  of  the 
songs  are  hummers.    (Feb.) 

•  STEPPING  OUT— M-G-M.— Charlotte 
Greenwood,  Leila  Hyams,  Reg.  Denny,  Cliff 
Edwards,  Merna  Kennedy,  Harry  Stubbs  and  Lilian 
Bond  make  this  light  comedy  one  continual  laugh. 
See  it.    (May) 

STOLEN  HEAVEN— Paramount.— Slow,  unreal 
story.  Nancy  Carroll  and  Phillips  Holmes  fine  in  the 
romantic  moments.     (April) 

•  STRANGERS  MAY  KISS— M-G-M— Norma 
Shearer,  the  last  word  in  sophistication  and 
beautifully  gowned  in  a  vivid  drama  of  modern  life  by 
the  same  author  as  "The  Divorcee."  To  be  seen. 
(May) 


SUBWAY  EXPRESS— Columbia.— Jack  Holt  in 
a  thrilling  mystery  of  the  stage  that  lost  its  kick  in  the 
movie  version.     (July) 

SUNRISE  TRAIL,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— A  Western  with  too  much  talking  and  not  enough 
action.     (March) 

SVENGALI — Warners.  —  Well  worth  seeing  for 
John  Barrymore's  superb  performance  in  the  title 
role  The  story  is  rathei  gruesome.  Don't  take  the 
children.     (June) 

SWANEE  RIVER— Sono  Art-World  Wide.— 
Thelma  Todd  and  Grant  Withers  try,  but  just  can't 
save  this  melodrama  from  being  anything  but  ordi- 
nary.    (May) 

•  TABU — Paramount. — A  poem  of  a  picture  laid 
in  the  South  Seas,  with  an  all-native  cast, 
beautifully  directed  by  the  late  F.  W.  Murnau.  Fine 
synchronized  musical  score.     (May) 

TAILOR  MADE  MAN,  A— M-G-M— The  jaunty 
and  self-confident  Bill  Haines  plays  this  old  Charlie 
Ray  silent  with  a  new  restraint  that  is  delightful. 
You'll  laugh  and  like  it.     (May) 

TARNISHED  LADY— Paramount.— Introducing 
Tallulah  Bankhead,  from  Alabama  and  the  London 
stage,  in  a  heavy  love  drama.  Clive  Brook  is  the  lead- 
ing man.     (June) 

TEN  CENTS  A  DANCE— Columbia— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Anybody's  Girl") — A  realistic  story 
of  a  taxi-dancer's  disillusionment.  Barbara  Stanwyck 
and  Ricardo  Cortez  are  great.    (Feb.) 

TEXAS  RANGER,  THE— Columbia.— Carmelita 
Geraghty  is  the  gal.  Buck  Jones  the  hero.     (July) 

3  LOST  GIRLS— Fox.— Loretta  Young,  Joan 
Marsh  and  Joyce  Compton  are  the  three  little  girls 
who  come  to  the  big  city.  Lew  Cody  good  as  the 
racketeer  and  John  Wayne  not  so  good.     (April) 

TOO  MANY  COOKS  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Bert 
Wheeler's  first  starring  picture,  minus  Mr.  Woolsey. 
Plenty  of  laughs,  some  lumps  in  the  throat  and  Doro- 
thy Lee  as  the  heart  appeal.     (June) 

•  TRADER  HORN— M-G-M.— Harry  Carey 
magnificent  as  Trader  Horn.  Story  of  the 
African  jungle,  full  of  the  tensest  drama  and  per- 
fection in  photography.     (March) 


TRAPPED — Big  Four. — Fights,  songs,  gangste.rs 
night  clubs,  murders,  chases,  plus  a  confused  plot. 
(June) 

TRAVELING  HUSBANDS  — Radio  Pictures. 
Risque  but  not  objectionably  so.  Top-notch  acting, 
with  Evelyn  Brent  in  the  lead.    (July) 

TWO  WORLDS  — British  International.— An 
honest,  dramatic  story  of  inter-racial  clashes — prob- 
ably the  best  of  the  recent  English  films.    (Feb.) 

UNDER  MONTANA  SKIES— Tiffany  Produc- 
tions.— Slim  Summerviile  saves  a  pretty  weak  picture 
about  a  stranded  showgirl.    (Feb.) 

UNFAITHFUL— Paramount.— Ruth  Chatterton, 
a  society  matron  who  can't  divorce  her  faithless  hus- 
band (Paul  Cavanaugh)  without  involving  her  own 
sister-in-law,  and  so  goes  to  the  dogs.  Good  for  the 
Chatterton  fans.     (May) 

UP  FOR  MURDER— Universal.— (Reviewed  un- 
der the  title  "Fires  of  Youth.")  Talkie  version  of 
the  old  silent,  "Man,  Woman  and  Sin."  Lew  Ayres 
and  Genevieve  Tobin  struggle  through.  Pretty  badly 
worn  plot.     (April) 

UP  POPS  THE  DEVIL— Paramount.— Young 
love  and  its  struggles  neatly  handled  by  Norman 
Foster,  as  a  young  author,  and  his  wife,  played  by 
Carole    Lombard.      Sprightly    dialogue.     (July) 

UPPER  UNDERWORLD  — First  National.— 
Different  from  the  average  racketeering  picture  and 
bound  to  make  you  think.     (July) 

•  VICE  SQUAD,  THE— Paramount.— Besides 
being  something  that  will  keep  you  interested, 
this  is  a  picture  you'll  think  about.  Paul  Lukas,  Kay 
Francis  and  Helen  Johnson  are  excellent.     (July) 

VIRTUOUS  HUSBAND,  THE— Universal.— One 
of  those  over-sexed  things.  Starts  off  to  be  a  howl 
ana  then  goes  serious  and  ends  by  being  pretty  bad. 
(June) 

WAITING  AT  THE  CHURCH— Radio  Pictures. 
— An  amusing  story  with  lovely  Technicolor  effects. 
(July) 

WESTWARD  BOUND— Syndicate.— Buffalo 
Bill,  Jr.,  with  his  guns  and  horse  in  another  Western. 
(Feb.) 

WHITE    SHOULDERS— Radio    Pictures.— Rex 

Beach's  dramatic  story  makes  an  interesting  picture. 
Jack  Holt,  Mary  Astor  and  Ricardo  Cortez  form  the 
triangle.     (July) 


WHITE  THUNDER.— The  eternal  triangle  story 
is  secondary  to  the  magnificent  photography  show- 
ing the  terrifying  vast  iciness  of  Newfoundland. 
(March) 

WILD  MEN  OF  KALIHARI— Travel  Film.— 
Mildly  interesting  African  adventure — without  much 
faking.     (Feb.) 

WILD  WEST  WHOOPEE— Cosmo.— Jack  Perrin 
in  a  conventional  Western  saved  by  a  thrilling  rodeo 
sequence  and  the  noble  work  of  his  horse,  Starlight- 
Josephine  Hill  is  the  heroine.    (May) 

WOMAN  BETWEEN,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— 
Heavy  drama  with  lots  of  emotion  and  a  song  from 
Lily  Damita.  Miriam  Seegar  is  the  one  bright  spot 
(June) 

WOMAN  OF  EXPERIENCE,  A— RKO-Pathe.— 

Only  average  entertainment,  in  spite  of  a  cast  which 
does  its  best.  Helen  Twelvetrees,  ZaSu  Pitts  and 
Lew  Cody.     (July) 

WOMEN  OF  ALL  NATIONS  — Fox.— Edmund 
Lowe  and  Victor  McLaglen  as  Quirt  and  Flagg  of 
"What  Price  Glory"  fame,  continue  their  adventures. 
Good,  rough  entertainment,  but  not  a  Sunday  school 
text.    (July) 

YELLOW  MASK,  THE— British  International.— 
An  attempt  to  mix  music,  comedy  and  melodrama. 
But  they  don't  mix.     (Feb.) 

YOUNG  AS  YOU  FEEL— Fox.— Another  grand 
Will  Rogers'  film,  funny  enough  to  make  you  forget  a 
toothache.     (July) 

•  YOUNG  DONOVAN'S  KID— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Good.  From  Rex  Beach's  story  "Big 
Brother."  Little  Jackie  Cooper  practically  steals  the 
show  m  spite  of  Dix's  excellent  work.     (July) 

YOUNG  SINNERS — Fox.— The  old  story  of 
modern  kids  in  a  jazz  and  cocktail  setting.  Thomas 
Meigfian  is  a  bright  spot,  Dorothy  Jordan  and  Hardie 
Albright  give  an  exhibition  of  couch  wrestling.   (July) 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


II9 


Lonesome  Glory 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  40  ] 

Tommy  lived  in  an  apartment  house  with 
many  others  who  looked  to  the  motion  pictures 
for  a  somewhat  precarious  living.  Tommy's 
apartment  was  on  the  third  floor  rear  and  there- 
was  no  elevator  by  which  he  could  mount  to  it, 
but  he  seemed  not  to  notice  the  stairs  this 
afternoon.  He  went  up  them  two  and  three  at 
a  time  and  when  he  reached  the  third  floor,  he 
turned  toward  his  apartment.  A  voice  from 
the  fourth  floor,  however,  stayed  him.  It  was 
a  girl's  voice. 

"Is  that  you,  Tommy?"  she  called.  "Gee, 
you  came  home  in  style.  Whose  Rolls  was 
that?    Clarinda's?'' 

"You  bet  it  was,"  Tommy  called  back  gaily. 
"Boy,  she's  a  peach,  that  Clarinda  Covelle! 
Wait'll  you  hear  the  story  I've  got  to  tell  you." 

""V"OU'RE  home  early,  aren't  you?"  the  girl 

■*■  queried.  As  she  spoke,  she  came  to  the  head 
of  the  stairs  and  slowly  walked  down  towards 
Tommy.  Tommy  went  half-way  up  to  meet 
her,  both  hands  extended.  She  caught  his 
hands  and  he  drew  her  toward  him  until  their 
lips  met. 

"Yes,  I  am  home  early.  Miss  Covelle  de- 
cided to  quit  and  I  was  shooting  scenes  with 
her." 

"She  brought  you  home,  eh?"  the  girl 
queried,  thoughtfully. 

"  Yes,"  Tommy  nodded  eagerly.  "  She  came 
to  me  on  the  set  and  told  me  to  go  over  and 
wash  up  and  she'd  drop  me  here  at  the  house. 
We're  goin'  to  make  more  pictures  together, 
honey.  She's  tickled  to  death  with  my  work. 
Says  I'll  be  a  great  star  in  no  time.  Think  of 
that!  Think  of  what  it'll  mean  to  us,  sweet- 
heart!" 

He  drew  her  toward  him  again,  and  she  lay 
unresisting  in  his  arms.  He  kissed  her.  "Who 
knows?"  he  went  on  enthusiastically.  "May- 
be we'll  have  our  little  home  in  Beverly  Hills; 
and  maybe  it  won't  be  so  little,  either!" 

The  girl  he  held  was  a  small  girl  with  huge, 
soft  eyes  and  a  natural  cupid's  bow  for  a 
mouth.    She  clung  to  him  there  on  the  stairs. 

"It's  all  so  wonderful,  Tommy,"  she  said. 
But  there  was  a  doubtful  light  in  her  eyes.  "  It 
hardly  seems  possible  that  you  and  Clarinda 
Covelle  are  working  together  in  a  picture.  It 
means  so'much,  doesn't  it?" 

"Of  course  it  does,"  he  went  on.  "I'm  the 
luckiest  kid  in  all  the  wide  world.  She  likes  my 
work,  too.  The  director  says  we're  making  a 
fine  picture.    Getting  a  lot  of  feeling  into  it." 

The  huge  eyes  of  the  girl  carried  a  hurt  and 
vaguely  frightened  look.  She  clung  to  Tommy, 
looked  up  at  him.  "  I  don't  see  how  such  a 
great  boy  can  be  interested  in  simple,  little 
me,"  she  said  dubiously.  "First  thing  I  know, 
you'll  grow  right  out  of  my  arms,  Tommy." 

Tommy  threw  back  his  head  and  laughed 
gaily.  "Silly,"  he  said  caressingly.  "Why, 
success  wouldn't  mean  anything  in  the  world  if 
I  couldn't  share  it  with  you!" 

"I  guess  I'll  never  get  a  break  in  pictures," 
the  girl  said  simply.  "I'll  always  be  just  an 
extra  girl." 

SOMETIMES,"  Tommy  said  earnestly,  "I 
hope  so,  sweetheart.  Maybe  we'd  be  all  the 
happier  if  you  didn't  become  a  big  star.  So 
many  of  those  marriages  break  up  and  it 
doesn't  hardly  seem  the  fault  of  either  one.  A 
man,  you  know,  likes  to  come  home  and  find 
his  wife  there  making  a  home  for  him." 

It  was  the  girl's  turn  to  laugh.  "Already," 
she  said,  "you're  growing  old-fashioned, 
Tommy.  My  goodness,  just  imagine  me  in 
rubber  gloves  and  an  apron  with  a  frying-pan 
in  one  hand  and  a  cake  of  butter  in  the 
other.  .  .  ." 

"Yes,  and  cooking  my  dinner,"  Tommy  in- 
terrupted laughingly. 

The  girl  joined  his  gaiety.     "Well,  look  at 


Ends  Sunburn  Agony— 


QUICKER 


■ 


Fiery,  burning  skin?  Apply 
Ungueniine  immediately.  The 
suffering  ends — quicker  lhan 
with  anything  else  you  might  use. 
Lotions,  toilet  preparations, 
only  reach  the  outer  surface  of 
the  skin.  But  Unguentine  pene- 
trates— it  goes  right  down  to  in- 
flamed tissues  where  the  sun's 
rays  do  the  most  painful  damage. 

don't  lake  chances 

with  lotions  and  toilet 
preparations 

Severe  sunburn  is  just  as  painful 
as  any  other  burn — and  it  loo 
may  become  infected.  Your  doc- 
tor wouldn't  think  of  treating  a 
burn  with  a  toilet  lotion  or  cream. 
Neither  should  you.  Never  use 
anything  but  UNGUENTINE,  the 
famous  antiseptic  remedy  used 
in  8  out  of  10  hospitals  for  burns 
and  scalds. 

Pleasantly,  safely,  Ungueniine 
changes  fiery  red  skin  to  rich, 
coppery  tan.  Only  50  cents — at 
your  druggist's.  Get  a  tube  to-day! 


Because  UNGUENTINE 
goes  as  deep  as  the  burn 


It's  HavorThat 

Makes  o? Mars 
the  Meal? 


28Kinds\S 

Reliable    ™ 
concentrated 
Tube  Flavors 
are  28  in  num- 
ber and  are 
not    sold  in 
stores   but  by 
specially  train 
ed  sales  -peo- 
ple  demonstrating  and 
serving  housewives    ir 
their  homes    everywhere. 
Reliable  Products 
Corp.  Chicago 


If  you  haven't  tried  Reliable's 
wonderful,  new  Black  Wal- 
Cf        ^nut   in    cakes,    puddings, 
ew ?"J»,Bauce8.etc.,you  'vemissed 
■>  .,/**  ^  a  delightful  treat.  Reli- 
able flavors  actu- 
ally cost  you  only 
a    fraction    of 
others  —  4  drops 
are     enough! 
Packed  only  in 
tubes,  so  al- 
ways fresh. 
Can't  deteri- 
orate  or    lose 
their  strength. 


*Zfr>n  int<>  a  Well  Paid 
&IW  HOTEL  JOB/ 


Fascinating  Work — Quick 
Advancement ! 


FINEST 
FLAVORS  , 
atYs  Price! 


EARN 
9  2,000  to 

SI.SOO  <J 
YEA* 

I  turn;  Often 
Included 


rr 


Hotel  and  institutional  Held  rallincc 
for  trained  men  and  women.  1'" 
as  Manager,  Assistant  Manager, 
Hostess,  Housekeeper.  Steward,  and 
many  other  important  positions  pay- 
inn  $2,000  to  $7,500  a  year  open. 
Nearly  one  billion  dollars  worth  of 
NEW  HOTELS,  CLUBS  AND 
INSTITl'TIONS  being  built. 
Qualify  right  at  home  In  spare  time— 
our  Personal  Coaching  Han  adapts 
the  trainlne  to  your  needs  Past  ex- 
perience proved  unnecessary.  Write 
for  Free  Hook. 

Clifford  Lewis,  Pres. 

LEWIS  HOTEL  TRAINING  SCHOOLS 

Room  DM-894,  Washington,  D.  C. 


120 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


FRECKLES 

Get  Rid  of  Those 
Ugly  Foes  of  a  Fair  Skin 


Even  the  fairest-skinned  woman  need  no  longer 
dread  the  sun  and  winds.  Though  they  cover 
her  face  with  ugly  freckles,  she  can  easily  and 
safely  fade  out  these  homely  blemishes  in  the 
privacy  of  her  home  with  Othine-double 
strength. 

It  is  seldom  that  more  than  an  ounce  jar  of 
Othine  is  needed  to  clear  the  skin  of  the  ugly, 
rusty-brown  spots.  After  a  few  nights'  use  of 
this  dainty  white  cream  you  will  see  that  even 
the  worst  freckles  are  disappearing  while  the 
lighter  ones  have  vanished  entirely. 

Be  sure  to  ask  for  Othine-double  strength  at 
any  drug  or  department  store.  Money  back  if 
it  does  not  remove  even  the  worst  freckles  and 
leave  your  skin  soft,  clear  and  beautiful. 


Greater  Value 
.  .  .  Too 


4 


Light,  airy  and  spacious 
rooms,  luxuriously  appointed 
.  .  .  tempting  foods.  Over- 
looking the  quiet  shores  of 
Lake  Michigan  .  .  .  quickly 
accessible  to  vacation 
pleasures  and  business  ac- 
tivities. Value-for-your- 
money  in  every  detaii  of 
service.  Rates  begin  at  $4  a 
day.  Permanent  Suites  at 
Special  Discounts. 


TH  E 


HOTEL,  CHICAGO 

Under  Blackstone  Management 


DO  YOUR  EYES 


HAVE 


Are  your  eyes  clear,  sparkling?  Do  they  have  "It"? 
They  must  have  if  you  want  .  .  .  Here's  why!  Tests 
prove  that  men  are  first  attracted  to  a  woman's  eyes. 
Your  eyes  can  have  "It"  too.  They  can  have  that 
attractive,  alluring,  come-hither  look.  Use  MERCO- 
LINE — a  new  discovery  of  a  famous  New  York  eye 
specialist.  MERCOLINE  aids  in  developing  long, 
silky  eyelashes,  beautiful  even  eyebrows,  and  clears 
up  red.  scaly  eyelids  in  a  few  short  weeks. 
MERCOLINE  is  guaranteed,  on  a  money  back  guar- 
antee— If  not  satisfied  in  thirty  days'  time. 
Send  for  this  new  eye  beauttfler — bring  out  the  hidden 
beauty  In  your  own  eyes.  $1.50  money  order,  or 
U.  8.  postage  stamps  (75  two-cent)  brings  a  full  sized 
Jar,  postpaid.  Or  order  C.O.D.  and  pay  postman  $1.75, 
and  remember — money  back  if  not  satisfied. 

THE  MERCOLINE  CO.,  Dept.  PI 

Box  120  N.,  310  W.  68th  St.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


me,"  she  said.  "  I'm  doing  it  now.  I  guess  I'm 
lucky  to  have  anything  to  cook!" 

"What  did  you  cook?"  Tommy  asked.  "I 
haven't  made  any  plans  for  dinner,  if  that's  an 
idea  for  you." 

"  You  may  come  up,"  the  girl  laughed.  "  You 
won't  get  much,  but  there'll  be  enough  of  what- 
ever we  have." 

The  two  had  dinner  and  spent  the  evening  in 
conversation.  The  girl  listened  wide-eyed  and 
apprehensive  as  Tommy  related  all  that  had 
happened  and  prophesied  all  that  was  going  to 
happen.  When  he  left  her  at  about  ten-thirty, 
she  clung  to  him  at  the  door  and  kissed  him 
repeatedly. 

Tommy  was  in  bed  and  almost  asleep  before 
realization  came  to  him  that  the  girl  he  had 
promised  to  marry,  and  wanted  more  than  any- 
thing else  in  the  world  to  marry,  had  been 
strangely  different  at  the  moment  of  their  fare- 
well. 


CLARINDA  COVELLE  had  indubitably 
fallen  for  Tommy  Marvell.  Hollywood, 
always  quick  to  notice  such  things,  gossiped. 
Tommy  was  spoken  of  as  a  potential  star  not 
alone  in  his  own  right  but  even  more  because  of 
what  Clarinda  could  do  for  him.  When  rushes 
of  the  picture  were  shown  in  various  projection 
rooms  about  the  lot,  producers  and  their  assist- 
ants nudged  each  other  at  the  very  obvious 
fervency  of  the  girl  when  she  played  a  scene 
with  Tommy. 

Some  of  the  wiser  ones  did  not  hesitate  to  say 
that  most  of  the  ardent  sincerity  reposed  in  the 
girl.  Tommy  was  doing  his  very  best  to  act 
the  part  of  lover  naturally  and  sincerely.  He 
was,  in  truth,  doing  this  very  well.  But  it  was 
evident  that  Clarinda  achieved  reality  without 
the  slightest  effort.  She  was  in  love  with 
Tommy  Marvell  and  Hollywood  knew  it. 

"Well,"  one  of  the  directors  remarked,  "I 
suppose  that'll  wash  them  up.  It's  a  shame, 
too,  because  that  little  extra  girl  of  Tommy's  is 
as  sweet  a  kid  as  I  ever  saw  in  my  life.  She's 
nuts  over  Tommy,  too.  They  were  engaged, 
you  know." 

"  She's  a  lovely  little  thing,"  another  nodded, 
"and  the  kind  of  a  character  Hollywood  needs. 
But  she  can't  act  for  hot  vinegar." 

"Good  acting,"  the  director  remarked, 
sarcastically,  "has  broken  up  more  homes  than 
any  other  one  thing  in  Hollywood." 

The  other  shrugged.  "  Tommy's  a  nice  kid," 
he  said.  "I  wouldn't  want  to  mafy  that 
Covelle  dame.  I  could  live  off  the  income  of 
what  she  spent  for  a  swimming  pool,  but  take 
it  from  me,  money  isn't  everything." 

"She's  not  bad,"  the  director  grunted. 
"  She's  just  nutty.  Most  of  these  actresses  are 
goofy  as  goats,  anyway.  An  idea  would  wave 
their  hair!" 

The  other  nodded  agreement.  "I  don't  say 
I  wouldn't  marry  her  if  I  was  in  Tommy 
Marvell's  position,"  he  admitted.  "Let  them 
get  married  for  a  year  or  two  and  then  divorced, 
just  like  Clarinda  divorces  everybody.  In  the 
meantime  Tommy'U  get  his  name  in  the  lights 
and  command  a  big,  fat  salary  of  his  own. 

"But  I'm  not  hard-boiled  enough  to  be  able 
to  forget  that  big-eyed,  little  kid  with  the 
cupid's  bow  mouth.  She  loves  Tommy,  and  I 
think  Tommy  loved  her  up  to  the  time  he  met 
Clarinda.  I  hate  to  think  of  Tommy  'going 
Hollywood '  on  her." 

"TT'EEP  up  your  sobbing,"  the  director 
■*-^-grinned.  "Mebbe  we'll getanotherpicture 
story  out  of  it.  God  knows  I  need  a  story.  I 
haven't  made  a  box-office  hit  since  I  worked 
for  Vitagraph!" 

Time  and  again  Tommy  Marvell  dined  at  the 
pretentious  Covelle  residence  in  Beverly  Hills. 
Several  times  he  appeared  at  Cocoanut  Grove 
with  Clarinda  and  now  and  then,  after  their 
evening  conferences,  the  two  would  drop  in  at 
Henry's  or  the  Brown  Derby  for  a  bite  of 
supper.  Twice  they  left  the  studio  to  go  to  the 
Embassy  Club  for  luncheon.  So  there  was 
plenty  of  ground  for  the  Hollywood  gossips. 

Tommy  noticed  a  distinct  difference  in  the 


treatment  accorded  him  at  the  studio.  Inas- 
much as  he  was  working  under  contract,  he 
received  no  increase  in  salary,  of  course,  but 
little  attentions  were  heaped  upon  him  and  the 
producers  began  speaking  of  the  new  contract 
that  would  be  given  him  soon. 

•"THE  lot  buzzed  with  whispers  of  the  new 
■*-  team  that  would  take  the  country  by  storm. 
Clarinda  Covelle  and  Tommy  Marvell  would 
be  box-office  the  country  over. 

During  all  this  time,  Tommy  kept  his  abode 
in  the  same  apartment  house  and  saw  fre- 
quently the  little  sweetheart  who  cooked  his 
dinners  and  two  or  three  times  a  week  went 
into  his  apartment  while  he  was  working  and 
tidied  things  for  him.  When  he  was  not  with 
Clarinda,  he  was  with  this  girl. 

Matters,  so  to  speak,  came  to  a  head  be- 
tween them  when  the  little  girl  read  in  one  of 
the  movie  columns  a  statement  to  the  effect 
that  Clarinda  Covelle  and  Tommy  Marvell 
were  engaged  to  marry.  She  mentioned  this 
with  a  bitter  smile. 

"Nobody  can  prevent  such  things  being 
printed,  honey,"  Tommy  told  her.  "I've 
noticed  that  you've  been  very  tender  and  very 
sweet  for  the  past  few  weeks.  I  wondered  what 
was  back  of  it  all.  Are  you  jealous  of  Clarinda?" 

"I'm  not  jealous  of  anyone,  Tommy,"  the 
girl  assured  him.  "  Of  course  I'm  not.  We're 
both  very  young  and  there  is  such  a  thing  as 
puppy-love.  I  wouldn't  in  the  least  mind  if 
you  married  Clarinda  Covelle.  Think  of  the 
future  it  would  give  you.  We  mustn't  ever 
lose  sight  of  that,  must  we?  I'd  never  stand  in 
your  way  a  single  moment." 

The  picture  which  Clarinda  and  Tommy 
were  making  came  to  completion.  It  passed 
through  the  cutting-room  without  being  too 
seriously  damaged  and  finally  was  released  for 
its  premiere  in  New  York.  The  picture  was  a 
hit.  Sharp-eyed  reviewers  found  in  its  love 
scenes  provocation  to  proclaim  to  readers  that 
the  beautiful  and  charming  Clarinda  unques- 
tionably had  fallen  for  her  new  leading-man. 

On  the  strength  of  the  outstanding  success  of 
this  picture,  Tommy  was  called  into  the  office 
of  the  producers  and  given  a  new  contract  at 
seventeen  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  a  week  to 
run  uninterruptedly  for  one  year,  when  it 
would  be  renewed  at  twenty-five  hundred  a 
week  for  the  second  year. 

Movie  columnists  and  reviewers  the  country 
over  began  printing  notices  of  the  ideal  match 
between  Clarinda  Covelle  and  Tommy  Mar- 
vell. Producers  sought  frantically  for  their 
next  vehicle.  The  two  were  seen  frequently  at 
social  functions  in  Hollywood.  Clarinda  ap- 
peared in  her  dazzling  jewelry  and  her  lavender 
Rolls-Royce,  and  because  of  his  new  contract, 
Tommy  assumed  a  position  of  prominence  in 
the  Hollywood  colony. 

TOMMY  accordingly  underwent  a  change  in 
habits.  He  moved  from  his  tiny  apartment 
to  a  suite  at  the  Beverly- Wilshire  Hotel.  He  ex- 
plained to  the  little  girl  in  the  apartment  house 
that  he  felt  this  was  necessary  because  of  his 
increased  prestige. 

Her  great,  soft  eyes  regarded  him  under- 
standingly. 

"I  want  to  furnish  it  myself,"  Tommy  told 
her.  "I  want  to  furnish  it  so  that  it  will  be 
cozy  and  not  like  a  hotel.  I  want  it  to  have 
personality.    You'll  help  me,  won't  you?  " 

"Indeed  I  will,"  the  girl  said  quietly.  "I'll 
always  be  glad  to  help  you,  Tommy." 

Then  real  estate  agents  began  to  call  at  his 
suite  and  it  became  known  generally  that  he 
was  in  the  market  for  a  place  in  Beverly  Hills. 
He  explained  to  interviewers  that  he  did  not 
want  a  great  big  place. 

He  wanted  a  small  one,  preferably  of  Spanish 
architecture. 

"  Would  he  have  a  swimming  pool?  " 

"  No,  indeed."  He  just  wanted  a  small  place 
because  he  hoped  to  save  his  money. 

Employment  agencies  communicated  with 
him  and  sent  Japanese  servants  to  interview 
him.  Of  course  he  would  want  a  valet  and  a 
chauffeur.     But  Tommy  did  not  want  these 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


I  21 


things.  lie  explained  that,  later  on,  after  he 
had  located  a  place  in  Uevcrly  Hills,  he  would 
like  to  hire  a  man  and  his  wife.  The  woman,  la- 
said,  could  do  the  cooking  and  the  man  work  in 
the  garden  and  drive  the  car  when  it  was 
necessary. 

Announcement  was  made  of  the  next  vehicle 
for  Clarinda  Covelle  and  Tommy  Marvell. 
Advance  publicity  swept  the  country.  The 
two,  unquestionably,  were  regarded  as  the  out- 
standing features  of  the  silver  screen.  Once 
again,  rumors  of  their  approaching  marriage 
were  profuse. 

THESE  rumors  pleased  Clarinda  inestimably. 
Now  and  then  she  smilingly  mentioned  them 
to  Tommy  and  squeezed  his  hand  as  she  did  so. 
Once  when  he  escorted  her  home  from  a  social 
function,  she  drew  him  into  the  shadows  of  the 
parte  cochcrc  of  her  home  and  raised  her  lips  to 
his. 

Tommy  kissed  her  good-night. 

A  sort  of  festival  was  arranged  by  studio 
executives  to  welcome  Tommy  and  Clarinda 
in  their  newest  picture.  This  took  place  after 
the  sets  had  been  erected  and  everything  was 
ready  to  begin  shooting.  A  sumptuous  ban- 
quet was  arranged  for  executives  and  the  out- 
standing stars  of  the  lot.  Rumor  had  it  that 
the  engagement  of  the  two  stars  would  be 
announced  at  this  banquet.  Executives  and 
producers  brought  their  wives.  Stars  brought 
their  wives  or  friends. 


There's  two  sides  to  this  pajama 
question  if  you  go  by  the  color  scheme 
on  those  of  June  MacCloy!  White 
flannel  is  very  good  for  sports  wear — 
and  especially  so  as  worn  on  the  beach 
here.  The  color  contrast  is  black  and 
orange 


ariother^f  oreig  a  sensation 


.  .  .  Has  just 
arrived ...  to 
thrill  you  . . . 


How  you   can    capture 

the  secret  of 
complete     loveliness 

The  elusive  secret  of  complete  femi- 
nine charm  .  .  .  cherished  by  the  women 
of  Europe  for  years  ...   is  yours  at  last. 

The  exquisite  refinement  that  you  have 
sought  so  long  is  possible  only  by  using 
a  depilatory  ond  a  deodorant  at  the 
some    fime,    for    absolute    freedom    from 


Hospitals  and  physicians 
use  and  endorse  Foraline, 
the  creation  of  Professor  J. 
Kothe',  an  eminent  chemist 
and  scientist  of  Dresden, 
Germany.  Foraline  is  de- 
lightfully perfumed,  sooth- 
ing,   antiseptic    and    safe. 


-forai 


hair  on  arms,  legs  and  underarms  os 
well  os  from  perspiration  and  its  inev- 
itable unpleasantness. 

And  now  for  (he  first  lime  the  Fora- 
line Twin  Treatment  offers  both,  fo  be 
used  fogelher,  safely  and   surely. 

Order  the  full-sized  Foraline  treatment 
now,  for  complete  loveliness  for  your 
close-ups.  Send  in  the  coupon  with  $2.00 
for  both  the  depilatory  and  the  deodo- 
rant— or  only  $1.00  for  either.  Be  sure  to 
fill  in  the  name  of  your  favorite  druggist. 

(Hear  the    Foraline   Beauty   Eipert  \ 

Every  Wednesday,  Friday 
over    Station    WCAE    at    10:15    A.M.         / 


ine 


Foraline    Products,    Inc.,    Circleville,    Ohio. 
I    enclose    $2.00   for    the    Twin    Treatment. 

I    enclose    $1.00    for     \  *e    depilatory 
|  the    deodorant 
The  name  and  address  of  my  favorite  drug- 
gist  is 


*  Name- 
Street. 
City 


-State. 


SAFE  TO   REMOVE 

CORNS 

One  drop  deadens  pain,  dries  up  callus 

OCIENCE  has  perfected  new  methods  in  ending 
■"*  corns.    No  more  paring,  that  is  dangerous. 
You  touch  the  most  painful  corn  with  an  amaz- 


ing liquid  which  acts  like  a  local  anaesthetic. 
Deadens  pain  in  3  seconds.  You  wear  tight 
shoes,  walk,  dance,  in  comfort .  .  .  immediately! 

Soon  the  corn  shrivels  up  and  loosens.  You 
peel  it  off  with  your  fingers.  Works  on  any 
kind  of  corn  or  callus,  hard  or  soft;  new  or 
old.    Results  are  guaranteed. 


"GETS -IT 


World's 
Fastest  Way 


Subscribe  for 
PHOTOPLAY 


RATES:  Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  In  the 
United  States,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and 
Cuba:  $3.00  Canada:  S3. 50  to  foreign  countries. 
Remittances  should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal 
or  express  money  order. 

NOTICE !  Do  not  subscribe  for  Photoplat 
through  unknown  persons.  Verify  the  credentials 
of  all  solicitors.  If  In  doubt  give  yoursubscription 
to  your  newsdealer  or  use  the  coupon  and  send  it 
direct  to  Photoplay. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Dept.8-P,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave..  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  S2.50  [Canada  33.00 
Foreign  S3. 50]  for  which  kindly  enter  my  sub- 
scription for  Photoplay  Magazine,  for  one  year, 
effective  with  Dext  Issue. 


Send  to. 


Street  Addrett. 
City 


.Slate. 


122 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


K, 


,/^fr  »-„ 


i.i 


& 


..iiniiinniilm 


«|tarS0£ 

find  luxurious 
comfort  and 
hospitality  un- 
surpassed at 

CHICAGO 


The  screen's 

greatest    celebrities    have 

honored    Hotel    Sherman. 

Will  Rogers 
Mary  Pickford 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Constance  Talmadge 
Lupe  Velez 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Vilma  Banky 
Rod  La  Rocque 
Lily  Damita 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Ronald  Colman 
Gloria  Swanson 
Wallace  Beery 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Ralph  Forbes 

Single  Room  with  Bath 
$2.50,  $3.00,  $4.00 

and  $5.00 
Double  Room  with  Bath 
$4.00,  $5.00,  $6.00 
and  $8.00 


DRIVE 

Your  Cor 

Right  into 

Hotel 
Shermon 


•*•_' 


OABAOt 


I  ■■■!■■■ 

Il  ■■■!■• 


RANDOLPH  •  CLARK  ■  LAKE  -  LA  SALLE  •  STREETS 


HOTEL  SHERMAN 


You  Can  Still  Enter 
Photoplay's  $5,00®  Contest! 

Special  Six  Months9 
Subscription  Offer 

So  that  our  readers  need  not  miss  a  single  issue  of  Photoplay  during  the  $5000.00 
Picture  Puzzle  Contest  we  are  making  a  special  six  month  rate  of  «^v 

(See  page  60  for  full  particulars  regarding  Contest) 

This  special  offer  is  made  to  avoid  disappointment. 
Many  of  our  readers  complained  last  year  because 
the  newsstands  were  sold  out  and  in  many  instances 
we  were  unable  to  supply  back  copies.  Take  advantage  of  our  Special 
Six  Months'  Contest  rate,  send  $1.25  (Canada  $1.50;  Foreign  $1.75)— we 
will  send  you  the  first  set  of  Puzzle  Pictures  which  appeared  in  June 
PHOTOPLAY,  a  copy  of  July  PHOTOPLAY  showing  the  second  set, 
and  enter  your  subscription  for  the  balance  of  5  months,  starting  with  the 
September  issue.    Use  the  convenient  blank  below. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 

DEPT.    CP-8-31.   919   N.   Michigan  Ave.,    Chicago. 

□  I  enclose  $1.25  (Canada,  $1.50;  Foreign,  $1.75),  for  which  you  will  kindly  enter  my 
subscription  for  PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  for  six  months,  sending  me  July  PHOTO- 
PLAY and  five  more  issues  starting  with  the  September  number.  Also  mail  me  the  set 
of  Puzzle  Pictures  from  June  PHOTOPLAY. 


Name 
Street 
City.  . 


State. 


Clarinda  appeared,  beautifully  gowned  and 
faultlessly  but  expensively  jeweled.  She 
carried  a  tiny,  jeweled  evening  bag  which 
exactly  matched  the  color  scheme  of  her  en- 
semble. Now  and  then  during  the  earlier  part 
of  the  dinner,  she  opened  this  bag  and  glanced 
inside  it. 

When  she  saw  what  reposed  therein,  a  faint 
smile  of  happiness  wreathed  her  lips. 

C'LARINDA  had  been  at  great  trouble  and 
^— 'expense  to  purchase  the  bauble  which  she 
intended  to  present  to  Tommy  Marvell  that 
night.  It  was  a  little-finger  ring  of  platinum 
with  a  specially  cut  emerald  and  diamond 
which  matched  her  own  favorite  ring. 

She  dreamed  of  seeing  it  on  Tommy's  finger, 
and,  because  everyone  would  know  that  the 
gift  was  from  her,  she  had  paid  a  fabulous 
price  for  it. 

She  brought  with  her  an  escort,  so  was  not 
surprised  or  interested  when  Tommy  appeared 
with  a  large-eyed  girl  with  a  natural  cupid's 
bow  mouth. 

Obviously,  the  child  was  an  extra  girl  at 
most.  Her  gown  was  simple  and  of  graceful 
line  but  so  inexpensive  that  Clarinda  passed 
her  over  with  only  a  glance. 

At  the  termination  of  the  dinner  the  chief 
producer  rose  and  made  a  somewhat  lengthy 
and  incoherent  speech  about  the  picture  which 
was  to  be  made.  He  paid  tribute  to  Clarinda 
and  also  to  Tommy.  He  called  them  America's 
ideal  sweethearts  and  prophesied  stupendous 
success  for  the  effort  ahead.  He  called  on 
Clarinda  to  speak  and  she  merely  rose  and 
bowed,  first  to  the  audience,  and  then  to 
Tommy. 

The  applause  was  vociferous. 

Then  the  producer  called  upon  Tommy  and 
he  rose  and  bowed  to  the  audience  and  then  to 
Clarinda.  But  Tommy  did  not  stop  there.  He 
turned  to  the  simple  little  girl  with  the  huge 
eyes  and  the  cupid's  bow  mouth.  He  caught 
her  by  the  hand  and  insisted  that  she  rise.  This 
she  did,  blushingly. 

Tommy  held  her  hand  as  they  stood  there 
side  by  side.    Then  he  spoke: 

"I  know  perfectly  well  that  any  picture  that 
features  Clarinda  Covelle,"  he  said  to  the 
guests,  "will  be  an  outstanding  success.  Any 
part  I  have  in  such  a  success  pleases  me  more 
than  I  ever  will  be  able  to  make  you  under- 
stand. 

"But  tonight  I  just  can't  think  much  about 
pictures.  I  must  tell  you  something  else.  I 
was  married  this  morning  and  I've  brought  my 
wife  here  so  that  you  all  may  meet  her."  He 
turned  again  and  bowed  to  the  little  girl  of  the 
large  eyes. 

Every  guest  in  the  room  glanced  immedi- 
ately at  Clarinda  Covelle.  Beautiful  she  was, 
with  almost  a  supernatural  beauty.  Gowned 
in  the  latest  mode  and  bejeweled  with  a  fortune 
in  baubles.  Her  eyes  were  distended  by  this 
announcement. 

She  was  sitting  erect  and  her  cheeks  were 
pale  with  the  ghastly  pallor  that  creeps  under 
rouge.  She  swayed  just  an  instant  in  her 
chair. 

Someone  applauded  the  announcement. 
Shortly,  everyone  joined  in  and  Clarinda  got 
hold  of  herself. 

With  others  she  rose  and  congratulated  the 
diffident  bride. 

THE  announcement  had  been  a  bombshell. 
Clarinda  Covelle  was  the  cynosure  of  all  eyes. 
After  a  few  brief  moments,  waiters  appeared 
serving  liqueurs  and  coffee.  Clarinda  sat  stiff 
and  silent  for  several  moments.  Then,  regally, 
she  rose  and  summoned  to  her  the  captain  in 
charge  of  the  waiters.  He  came  and  bowed  to 
her. 

"You've  been  very  nice,  captain,"  she  said. 
"The  dinner  has  been  beautifully  served."  She 
reached  into  her  bag  and  drew  forth  the 
diamond  and  emerald  ring. 

"Here,"  she  said,  "take  this,  my  boy,  and 
remember  Clarinda  Covelle."  Then  she 
turned  and  left  the  banquet  hall. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  54  ] 


gruffly.  "You  played  a  bit  in  that  cheap 
Western — " 

"It  was  the  second  lead!"  corrected  Paul. 

"All  right — call  it  that.  You  were  in  a  two- 
reeler  they  couldn't  release — " 

"What  are  you  driving  at?"  Paul  was  angry. 
In  front  of  Camille,  this  was  terrible. 

"Don't  get  sore,"  said  Lou,  more  gently. 
"Haven't  I  known  you  kiddies  long  enough  to 
talk  like  this?  And  Camille — -you  keep  on 
making  personal  appearance  tours,  and  you 
haven't  had  a  real  part  in  years.    Right?" 

"I  have  an  interview  next  week,"  she  said, 
her  eyes  flashing  defiantly.  "Thompson  has 
promised  to  write  a  part  for  me  in  his  next 
picture." 

"Yeah,"  said  Lou,  impatiently.  "But  you 
know  he  won't!" 

Camille  flushed.  She  stole  an  anxious 
glance  at  Paul,  and  was  glad  that  he  was 
staring  out  the  window. 

"Now,  I  got  a  way  to  bring  you  both  back," 
Lou  went  on,  "in  'Ex-Convict.'  But  you've 
got  to  help." 

They  both  looked  at  him  sharply.  "We're 
listening,"  Camille  said. 

"All  you  got  to  do,"  said  Lou,  settling  back, 
"is  to  get  married  again!" 

There  was  a  stunned  silence.  "You're 
clowning!"  Camille  exclaimed  angrily.  Paul 
sat  blinking  stupidly. 

Lou  ignored  them.  "You  kiddies  could 
come  back,"  he  said,  talking  rapidly,  "if  you 
had  the  chance.  But  you  won't  get  the  chance 
unless  you  make  'em  talk  about  you.  Your 
re-marriage  after  all  these  years  is  a  good 
story.  Tommy  Law  could  handle  the  pub- 
licity— and  get  you  plenty.  Instead  of  a 
couple  of  has-beens — a  couple  of  names  that 
don't  mean  a  thing  any  more — you  show  'em 
you're  two  good  bets.  If  we  put  it  over 
right,  it's  a  cinch  for  me  to  sell  you  both." 

"You  mean  well,  I  suppose,"  Paul  said, 
"but  of  course  it's  out  of  the  question." 

Lou  looked  at  his  watch  and  showed  alarm. 
"I  got  an  appointment,"  he  said  tersely. 
"You  two  talk  it  over  and  I'll  be  right  back." 

"There's  no  use  talking  about  it,"  said 
Camille,  sharply. 

"I  won't  be  five  minutes,"  Lou  called,  as  he 
went  out  the  door. 

Camille  reached  for  a  cigarette,  and  Paul 
held  a  match.  "I  never  knew  Lou  to  talk  so 
goofy,"  she  said,  settling  back. 

Paul  strolled  to  the  window.  "He  usually 
has  pretty  good  ideas,"  he  said. 

"But  he  went  wild  on  this  one,  didn't  he?" 
Camille  laughed  more  shrilly  than  was  natural. 

At  the  window  Paul  smoked  a  whole  ciga- 
rette in  silence.  Then,  when  he  turned  to 
Camille,  his  face  was  drawn,  his  lips  tight. 
"Lou's  right,  Camille,"  he  said,  quietly. 
There  was  no  aggressiveness  about  his  chin 
now. 

CHE  did  not  raise  her  eyes.  "You — you  mean 
'"-'we  should  do  it?" 

"It  would  be  good  business,"  he  said  slowly. 
"But  I  wasn't  thinking  just  of  that."  He 
drew  up  a  chair  and  sat  in  front  of  her.  His 
eyes  were  suddenly  very  tired,  and  his  shoulders 
drooped.  He  had  dropped  the  mask,  and 
there  was  a  naturalness  about  him  that  was 
unnatural. 

"I've  been  trying  to  bluff  for  years,  Camille," 
he  said.    "Now  I  want  to  come  clean." 

She  was  intent  upon  punching  her  cigarette 
into  a  tray.  "I — I  don't  get  you,  Paul,"  she 
said,  nervously. 

He  hesitated  a  moment — then  plunged. 
"I'm  tired  and  lonely  and  pretty  well  dis- 
couraged. I  wish  I  could  buy  a  little  ranch 
somewhere,  live  quietly,  and  be  content  to 
look  my  age."  He  leaned  back  abruptly. 
"Now  I've  told  you,"  he  said  bitterly. 


"I — I  knew  anyway,"  she  answered,  after  a 
pause.  "I  wondered  if  you  knew — that  I  felt 
the  same  way."  She  raised  her  eyes,  and  for 
the  first  time  the  defiance  was  gone  out  of 
them. 

"It's  been  hell!"  he  said  solemnly.  Then 
without  shame:  "My  hair  is  dyed.  And  I'm 
beginning  to  get  rheumatism." 

"I've  been  starving  for  years,"  she  said, 
revelling  in  an  orgy  of  confession,  "to  keep  a 
figure.  When  I  get  up  in  the  morning  I  look 
fifty.    And  I  get  so  darned  lonesome!" 

He  reached  forward  and  took  her  hand. 
"We  shouldn't  ever  have  split  up,"  he  said. 

"Maybe  not,"  she  sighed  back. 

"I'm  not  trying  any  of  the  worn-out 
hokum,"  he  said,  squeezing  her  hand,  "but 
I  think  we  both  need  each  other,  Camille." 

She  squeezed  back. 

"I  can't  register  the  old-time  girlish  em- 
barrassment," she  said,  "but  I'm  tickled  pink 
at  the  idea." 

"If  Lou  is  right,"  he  said  solemnly,  "we 
can  make  a  little  pile  in  a  year." 

"And  we'll  save  it  this  time!"  she  added 
bitterly. 

"And  then  settle  down  somewhere — live 
modestly — be  like  other  people — have  a  few 
real  friends — " 

"And  put  sugar  and  cream  in  our  coffee!" 
she  nodded  eagerly. 

Lou  bustled  in,  rubbing  his  hands.  "You 
kiddies  talked  it  over?"  he  asked. 

Paul  had  on  his  mask  again.  "We've  de- 
cided to  do  it,"  he  answered,  dramatically. 

Lou  nodded  and  beamed.  "Miss  Snitzer," 
he  called.  "Get  Tommy  Law  on  the  phone 
and  tell  him  to  come  right  over." 

HpWO  weeks  later,  when  Paul  was  lounging 
*■  comfortably  in  Camille's  apartment,  drink- 
ing tea  with  her  and  sampling  a  cake  she  had 
baked,  Tommy  Law  was  announced  in  the 
lobby.  Paul  grumbled  as  he  got  into  his  coat 
and  straightened  his  tie.  He  enjoyed  so  com- 
pletely throwing  off  the  mask  in  front  of 
Camille,  and  not  struggling  to  be  charming 
and  important,  that  interruptions  annoyed 
him. 

"He's  a  pest,"  agreed  Camille.  "I'll  have 
to  get  out  of  this  house  dress." 

Tommy,  his  mind  cluttered  with  a  thousand 
details,  was  nervous  and  excited.  He  was  al- 
ways nervous  and  excited  when  he  was  putting 
over  something  big. 

"Where's  Camille?"  he  asked.  "Nothing's 
leaked  out,  has  it?  Have  you  done  what  I 
told  you?" 

"Everything,"  said  Camille,  returning. 
"Have  some  tea?" 

"Thanks,"  answered  Tommy.  "You're 
going  to  the  premiere  tonight?" 

Paul  nodded.    "I  suppose  so.    You  said — " 

"Yeah,  that's  right.  I  want  you  to  be  seen 
together — but  not  too  often.  Just  so  it  won't 
look  too  fakey.  I've  fixed  things  with  the 
radio  announcer.  Stall  in  the  lobby  until  he 
sees  you.  And  tomorrow — "  Tommy  gulped 
his  cake — "you  elope!" 

"Impossible!"  exclaimed  Camille.  "I  need 
some  clothes." 

"Lou's  afraid  they  will  be  casting  soon." 
Tommy  explained.  "We've  got  to  give  this 
story  time  to  break." 

Paul  shrugged  and  sighed.  "I'll  wire  to 
Yosemite  for  reservations." 

"No,"  said  Tommy.  "You're  going  to 
Mexico." 

".Mexico?    In  this  heat?" 

"Sorry,"  Tommy  was  commanding.  "We 
thought  it  would  be  more  romantic.  Every- 
thing's arranged.  You  cross  the  border  just 
before  six,  and  drive  to  Vescadido." 

"That  will  take  hours!"  objected  Paul. 

"Yes,  I  know.     Go  right  to  this  address. 


€>^oveliness  oL'enuinds  il 

The  glow  of  yoyth  . . .  from  a  clear,  clean 
skin... yours  if  you  gently  cleanse  the  pores 
morning  and  night  with  Krank  Lemon 
Cleansing  Cream  ...  liquefies  instantly 
...penetrates  deeply.  ..dissolves  impuri- 
ties .  .  .  cleanses  thoroughly.  Unexcelled 
at  any  price.  $1  for  a  4  oz.  jar  .  .  .  Fol- 
low if  with  Krank  Astrinqent  Lotion,  so 

/  3 

delightful  for  firming  the  skin  . . .  Mentho- 

Lemon    Foundation  Cream,  the   perfect 

powder  base . . .  and  the  softer,  smoother, 

...   I 
clinging    Poudre    Krank  ...  5  shades. 

Send  25c  in  stampi  for  attractive  3-piece 
Acquaintance    Set     and    new    Beauty 
Boot,  "Captivating  loveliness."  Write 
Dept.   797,    Kronlt    Toiletnet,    1885 
University  Avenue,  Saint  Paul,  Minn. 

rO  /l  K  (cleansing) 

LO10T.  (M.m 


BIG  OPPORTUNITIES 
in  PHOTOGRAPHY      - 


Earn  SI.  500 
$7,000  a  yenr  in  new 
photoerap'iic  field. 
Opportunities 
everywhere  for 
trained  motion 
picture,  commercial 
or  portrait  photog- 
"W  raphers.      Previous 

experience    unnec- 
essary.    Simplified 
System.     We  furnish  equipment. 
Barn  while  you  learn.    I  i'c  Mem- 
r>er=hip  KRKE  of  extra  ch  *rce  in 

p.-rsonal  Service  Bureau  which  helpa  von  *t.rt  a 
studio  o*  pui*  you  in  touch  with  opDortatutha. 
Send  TODAY  f-»r  FREE  Book  telling  how  to 
qualify    rot 

(    )    Motion    Picture  Photo«raohv  or   Projection. 
(    >    romn.-rci.il     and     Portr.nt     Phot. « 

Phote-finiahinx 


oooop*v 


1AM.  IS  XT  ISC. 
HORK 


NATIONWIDE 

FIELD 


\Wetoitchinq^l£YY>  § 


^faybelline  Eyelash  Darkcnef 
will  instantly  transform  your 
lashes  into  a  dark,  luxuriant 
fringe,  making  them  appear 
longer.  Harmless  and  easy  to 
use.  A  touch  of  Maybelline 
Eye  Shadow  to  your  eyelids 
will  add  depth,  beauty  and 
"expression."  Form  the 
brows  with  the  clean,  smooth 
Maybelline  Eyebrow  Pencil- 
then  you  will  have  re-made 
your  eyes  into  soulful  pools 
I  of  loveliness.  Insist  upon  the 
genuine  —  preferred  by  trill- 
ions  for  over  fifteen  years. 


E 


emc^^e^^zzG 


I  24 


your 
horoscopi 


OOMEDAY 

smiling  fortune  will 
escort  you  to  the 

world  famous 

"Cocoanut 
Grove" 

at  the 
Ambassador 

Los  An&clcs 

There,  beneath  an 
azure  sky,  graceful 
palms  and  twink- 
ling lights  you  will 
dance,  as  you  never 
danced  before,  to 
the  most  alluring 
of  dance  music. 

You  are  sure  to  see 
many  of  the  world's 
most  famous 

<JMotion 
TiBure^  Stars 


are 


In  fact,  at  the  Am 
bassador   you 
sure  of  enjoy 
California  at  its  best 


in 


g 


Open  Air  Plunge, 
two  Golf  Courses, 
MotionPicture 
Theatre   and 
every  outdoor 
sport. 


Writer  for  Chef's 
Illustrated 
Cook  Book 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 

There  will  be  someone  there  waiting  to  marry 
you." 

"I  wanted  to  ask  some  friends,"  said 
Camille,  sadly. 

"That's  out,"  snapped  Tommy.  "This 
story's  got  to  break  as  a  surprise.  The  re- 
porters will  discover  you  in  your  hotel  at  ten 
the  next  morning." 

Paul  scowled.    "Ten  is  too  early." 

"No,"  corrected  Tommy.  "It's  just  right 
for  the  afternoon  papers.  Here  are  state- 
ments for  both  of  you.  Memorize  them.  It's 
all  good,  human-interest  stuff.  I've  got 
photos  of  you  ready,  and  plenty  of  stills  from 
your  old  movies.  Stay  around  the  hotel,  and 
let  yourselves  be  seen.  Be  attentive  to  each 
other,  but  dignified.  Remember,  I'm  handling 
this  yarn  from  the  'grandeur-of-mature-love' 
angle.    Is  that  clear?" 

"What  kind  of  toothpaste  should  I  use?" 
asked  Camille,  trying  to  be  sarcastic. 

"We'll  talk  about  that  later,"  Tommy 
answered  sharply.  "Lou  will  keep  in  touch 
with  you  by  phone.  I  may  send  some  Sunday 
feature  writers  down.  Lay  it  on  thick — 
you're  sweet  copy  for  them.  Screen  lovers  of 
yesteryear  find  love  never  dies.  Docs  a  man 
ever  forget  how  to  kiss?  The  charms  of  mature 
womanhood  versus  the  beauty  of  youth.  You 
know  the  stuff.  Anyway,  they  will  feed  it  to 
you." 


t  tM  irar  mi  t::i  im  iiii  inn  mil  wii  mil  111,1  > 


1 'am  iiiihm 


"All  right,  Tommy,"  sighed  Camille,  "we'll 
try." 

"Now,  remember,"  he  said,  rising,  "I  won't 
steal  as  much  space  as  you  got  on  your  divorce 
fifteen  years  ago.  But  we'll  make  a  fair-sized 
smash." 

Paul  stepped  forward  solemnly.  "We'll  do 
it,"  he  said.  "But  as  soon  as  Lou  puts  this 
deal  across — you  lay  off!     Understand?" 

"Holy  smokes!    Don't  you  want  publicity?" 

"We  want  jobs,"  said  Paul,  gruffly,  "and 
when  we  get  them  we  want  to  be  left  alone. 
We're  not  going  into  this  just  for  notoriety. 
We—" 

"Never  mind,  Paul  dear,"  Camille  in- 
terrupted anxiously.  "Maybe  Tommy  would- 
n't understand." 

HpHE  wedding  went  off  very  much  as 
*•  scheduled,  except  that  it  was  two  hours 
later  than  planned  on  account  of  the  bad 
roads.  The  reporters  and  correspondents  dis- 
covered the  newlyweds,  as  arranged,  only  they 
arrived  at  eight  instead  of  at  ten.  Paul,  with 
a  desperate  effort,  shook  off  his  sleepiness,  and 
laughingly  'fessed  up  that  they  had  "put  one 
over"  on  their  friends  and  remarried. 

Camille,  between  yawns,  was  successfully 
embarrassed,  and  accepted  the  discovery  of 
their  honeymoon  hideaway  with  a  gay  laugh, 
like  the  game  little  sport  she  was.     She  re- 


According  to  Seymour,  this  sports  outfit  of  Virginia  Cherrill's  is  one  of  the  best. 
The  three-piece  suit  is  red  flannel  trimmed  in  white — an  excellent  combina- 
tion.   Notice  the  close-fitting  red  and  white  cap,  the  two-toned  scarf,  and 
the  good-looking  perforated  white  oxfords 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


cited  Tommy's  statement  almost  perfectly, 
and  Paul  intoned  his  with  that  dramatic  rich- 
ness of  voice  acquired  years  before,  when  he 
was  a  stock  leading  man. 

The  results  were  as  good  as  Tommy  pre- 
dicted. They  made  a  fair-sized  smash.  He 
got  five  hundred  words  on  the  news  service 
wires,  and  the  local  papers  all  used  photos. 
Lou  called  them  up  to  congratulate  them. 

"Everything  is  okay,  kiddies,"  he  said  in 
an  excited  voice.  "I  hope  the  operator  isn't 
listening  in.    Sit  tight  until  you  hear  from  me." 

"It's  awfully  hot  down  here,"  Paul  ventured, 
timidly. 

"I'll  work  as  fast  as  I  can.  We  got  'em 
talking.     They  know  you're  alive,  all  right." 

"But  we  won't  be  for  long,"  complained 
Paul.     "The  heat  is  terrific!" 

"Sit  tight!  I'll  do  my  best." 

THE  special  writers  began  to  arrive  on  an 
average  of  one  a  day,  and  it  usually  meant 
dinner  and  a  late  evening.  But  despite  the 
heat  and  the  annoyances,  they  were  happy. 
They  luxuriated  in  the  tranquillity  of  perfect 
understanding.  F»r  the  first  time  in  years 
they  could  face  the  future  and  smile  at  it, 
unafraid.    For,  ahead,  they  saw  peace. 

"It  won't  be  long,  dear,"  Paul  said,  as  they 
loafed  in  their  rooms  on  a  quiet  evening, 
"and  we'll  be  out  of  it." 

"I  hope  so,"  she  said.  "Two  weeks  in  this 
place — " 

"I  meant,"  interrupted  Paul,  "that  we'll 
be  out  of  this  false,  shabby  world  of  pretense. 
No  more  bluff.  No  more  pretending  to  have 
turned  down  a  dozen  jobs  when  you're  half 
dead  trying  to  find  one.  No  more  cultivating 
'the  right  people'  who  bore  you  sick,  and  going 
to  places  you  hate,  just  to  be  seen.  We'll 
just  be  normal,  ordinary  folks.  Why  do 
actors  make  themselves  miserable  by  pre- 
tending to  be  important?" 

"You'd  think  they  were  playing  a  game," 
Camille  observed  sagely.  "The  one  who 
talks  most  about  himself,  and  attracts  the 
most  attention,  gets  a  prize!" 

"I  want  to  live  in  the  country,"  Paul  mused. 
"My  father  was  a  farmer,  you  know." 

"You  used  to  say,"  said  Camille,  "that  you 
were  of  an  old  English  theatrical  family." 

Paul  nodded.  "That  was  part  of  the 
bluff."  He  reminisced  sadly:  "I  would  have 
had  half  the  farm  if  I  hadn't  left  home  and 
wasted  my  life  strutting  and  posing  and 
smirking  and  bowing." 

"Not  all  your  life,  dear,"  she  said  gently. 
"The  best  part  is  ahead." 

"You're  a  honey,"  he  answered,  smiling. 
"Pardon  me  if  I  don't  get  up  and  kiss  you?" 

The  phone  rang,  and  persisted  despite  their 
efforts  to  ignore  it.  It  was  Lou  calling  long 
distance,  and  his  voice  was  worried.  "The 
competition  for  those  parts  is  stiff,"  he  said. 
"The  studio's  impressed,  but  we  may  have  to 
do  something  more.  Tommy  thinks  maybe 
he  will  have  Camille  kidnapped  by  bandits! — " 

"Now  see  here,  Lou! — " 

" — and  have  you  run  to  the  rescue.  Can 
you  still  ride  a  horse?" 

"Camille  is  ill,"  Paul  said  sharply.  "Much 
too  ill  to  be  kidnapped.    It's  the  heat." 

"I'll  call  you  kiddies  tomorrow,"  answered 
Lou,  ignoring  him.    "Sit  tight!" 

But  he  did  not  call  in  the  morning.  Instead 
he  burst  in  upon  them  late  in  the  afternoon, 
breathless  and  excited,  and  greeted  them 
exuberantly. 

"/^AN  I  have  a  drink  of  water?"  he  asked, 
^— 'panting.     "I  flew  down." 

"Why  the  rush?"  asked  Paul. 

He  gulped  the  water  gratefully.  "I  wanted 
to  tell  you  all  about  it.  I  put  it  over!  The 
contracts  are  ready  for  you  to  sign.  Phew! 
Why  didn't  you  tell  me  it  was  so  hot  down 
here?" 

They  had  time  for  a  real  honeymoon  before 
the  studio  needed  them,  and  they  spent  it  in 
a  little  family  hotel  upstate,  where  no  one 
recognized  them  and  where  it  was  delightfully 
cool  in  the  shade  of  the  towering  redwoods. 


It  was  more  wonderful,  they  decided,  than 
their  first  honeymoon,  when  they  had  toured 
France  and  Italy  in  regal  grandeur,  and 
graciously  accepted  the  honors  showered 
upon  them  as  American  movie  potentates. 
Camille's  trunk  still  held  a  dozen  keys  of 
cities  collected  on  the  memorable  return  trip 
to  the  West. 

BUT  now  they  revelled  in  obscurity,  with  no 
thought  but  for  each  other  and  the  future. 
They  understood  things  better  now,  and  were 
calmly  confident.  There  was  a  sense  of 
security.  The  seas  before  them  were  all 
charted;  they  knew  the  shoals  and  the  dan- 
gerous waters. 

Paul  loafed  in  his  oldest  clothes.  He  tried 
to  fish,  and  read  detective  stories.  Camille 
gossiped  on  the  front  porch,  wrote  letters,  and 
ate  candy  whenever  she  felt  like  it.  In  the 
evenings  they  both  played  bridge  with  a 
kindly  old  couple  until  eleven,  and  sat  for 
another  hour  chatting.  The  men  discussed 
politics,  prohibition  and  the  heavyweight 
situation.  Camille  asked  the  old  lady  about 
flower  gardening  and  needlepoint,  and  both 
gave  their  opinions  of  the  younger  generation. 

"Did  you  notice,"  Camille  said  one  evening, 
as  they  went  to  their  room,  "that  we  didn't 
talk  about  ourselves  once  all  evening?" 

Paul  nodded.  "I  never  realized  there  were 
so  many  other  things  to  talk  about,"  he 
answered.     "It's  amazing." 

When  Lou  wired  that  they  were  to  report 
immediately  at  the  studio  for  rehearsals,  they 
left  reluctantly. 

Camille,  entering  the  set  for  the  first  day's 
work,  found  Paul  glaring  at  his  image  in  his 
make-up  box  mirror. 

"Well,  how  do  you  like  it?"  she  asked  gayly. 

"I'm  afraid  the  gray  around  the  temples  is  a 
little  heavy,"  he  said  gravely. 

"I  meant  being  back  in  harness,"  she 
laughed.  "It's  kind  of  fun  puttering  around 
your  dressing-room  all  by  yourself,  isn't  it?" 

He  looked  at  her  sharply.  "You  have  a 
dressing-room  for  yourself?"  he  asked. 

"Of  course.     Haven't  you?" 

"There  must  be  some  mistake,"  he  said, 
scowling  into  the  mirror  again.  "I  am  shar- 
ing one  at  the  moment  with  the  comedv 
relief." 

PAUL  threw  himself  on  the  divan  when  they 
got  home  after  the  preview.  He  stretched 
himself  luxuriously,  and  sighed  with  con- 
tentment. 

"I  have  seldom  seen  a  better  picture,"  he 
said,  with  enthusiasm.  "Roberts  certainly 
got  a  lot  out  of  me,  and  except  for  one  or  two 
scenes,  I  was  quite  well  photographed.  I 
think  the  public  will  like  me.  And  I'll  bet 
the  critics  will  call  it  my  finest  performance. 
No — I  don't  think  I've  ever  seen  a  finer 
picture!" 

Camille  threw  her  dress  on  a  chair  and 
walked  toward  the  bathroom.  "Naturally, 
you  would  think  that,"  she  said,  slamming  the 
door  behind  her. 

Something  in  her  voice — something  that  was 
a  dim,  sinister  echo  out  of  the  past — made 
him  sit  up  thoughtfully. 

The  water  in  the  bowl  was  running  full 
force. 

Then  it  was  shut  off  suddenly.  "You  would 
think  it  was  good!"  she  called,  and  she  was 
speaking  now  with  deliberation  and  unmis- 
takable sincerity. 

"You  hogged  the  camera  every  minute, 
and  used  all  your  old  tricks  to  steal  my 
scenes !" 

He  arose,  slowly,  and  with  dignity. 

"Camille,"  he  called  at  the  bathroom  door, 
"please  choose  your  language!  After  all  I've 
done  for  you — " 

She  turned  on  the  water  full  force  again. 
Her  voice  rose  above  it,  like  a  battle  cry 
ringing  through  the  storm. 

"All  you've  done?  Why,  you  fifth-rate  stock 
leading  man — " 

*     *     * 

The  decree  became  final  a  year  later. 


•  Millions  are  pay- 
ing homage  to 
Claudia   Del!, 


Radio  Pictures 
star — one  of  the 
Fairest  of  the  Fair. 


FAIR- EST 

''The  Natural  Cosmetics" 
CREATED  in  HOLLYWOOD 
for  the  FAIREST  of  the  FAIR 

The  fascination  and  magnetic 
charm  of  Hollywood's  fairest  wo- 
men dre  increased  by  their  skill- 
ful use  of  the  right  cosmetics.  You, 
too,  can  win  admiration  with  the 
beautifying  qualities  and  irresist- 
able  fragrance  of  Fair-est. 

Lipstick,  Rouge,  Perfume,Face 
Powder,  Bath  Salts  and  Posting 
Powder  in  beautiful,  dainty  con- 
tainers— at  your  dealer 

THE   FAIR-EST  COMPANY 
HOLLYWOOD 

501  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 


GIRLS 
MAKE 
MONEY 
in 


ART 


As  fashion  illustrators  ...  interior  decorators... 
fabric  designers. .  .show  card  writers. ..  modern 
girls  are  making  good  money  in  art.  Girls  trained 
in  art  are  needed.  Many  Federal  Studentsare  now 
earning  $2500  to  $6000  a  year  .  .  .  others  more. 
Through  the  Federal  School  of  Illustrating  you 
can  learn  the  principles  of  drawing  at  home. 
More  than  fifty  famous  artists  share  with  you 
their  experience  in  Cartooning,  Lettering, 
Illustrating,  Designing,  etc.  Send  now  for  Free 
Art  Test.  From  it  our  artists  will  judge  your 
drawing  ability.  "A  Road  to  Bigger  Things" 
will  also  be  sent  you  free. 


FEDERAL  SCHOOL 
OF   ILLUSTRATING 

8101    Federal   Schools    Building 
MINNEAPOLIS,  MINNESOTA 


I  26 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


Pin 

Money 

For  Our 
Readers 


PHOTOPLAY  now 
offers  its  readers  the 
opportunity  to  convert 
their  spare  time  into 
real  money  by  becoming 
its  subscription  repre- 
sentatives in  the  town  or 
community  in  which 
they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of 
Photoplay,  will  be 
quick  to  realize  the 
money-making  possibil- 
ities this  offer  affords 
you. 

Your  friends  —  your 
neighbors  —  in  fact,  all 
the  homes  in  your  com- 
munity— are  prospective 
subscribers  for  PHOTO- 
PLAY. Who,  today,  is 
not  interested  in  moving 
pictures — the  chief  rec- 
reation of  the  American 
public? 

Be  the  first  in  your 
community  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  this  offer,  and 
get  started  at  once.  The 
coupon  or  a  post  card 
will  bring  further  de- 
tails. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 

Dept.   RE-8-31,     919    No.    Michigan   Ave., 

Chicago,  111. 

I  am  interested  in  your  money-making  of- 
fer to  your  readers.  Send  me  the  details  at 
once. 


Name.. . 
Address. 


City. 


.State. 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


"ALEXANDER  HAMILTON"  —  Warners.  — 
From  the  play  by  George  Arliss  and  Mary  Hamlin. 
Adapted  by  Julian  Josephson  and  Maude  Howell. 
Directed  by  John  Adolfi.  The  cast:  Alexander  Hamil- 
ton, George  Arliss;  Mrs.  Betsy  Hamilton,  Doris 
Kenyon;  Senator  Roberts,  Dudley  Digges;  George 
Washington,  Alan  Mowbray;  Mrs.  Reynolds,  June 
Collyer;  Mr.  Reynolds,  Rail  Harolde;  Chief  Justice 
John  Jay,  Charles  Middleton;  Thomas  Jefferson, 
Montagu  Love;  Gen.  Philip  Schuyler,  Lionel  Belmore; 
James  Monroe,  Morgan  Wallace;  Count  Talleyrand, 
John  T.  Murray;  Martha  Washington,  Gwendolin 
Logan. 

"AN  AMERICAN  TRAGEDY"— Paramount.— 
From  the  story  by  Theodore  Dreiser.  Directed  by 
Josef  Von  Sternberg.  The  cast:  Clyde  Griffiths, 
Phillips  Holmes;  Roberta  Alden,  Sylvia  Sidney; 
Sondra  Finchley,  Frances  Dee;  Orville  Mason,  Irving 
Pichel;  Samuel  Griffiths,  Frederick  Burton;  Mrs. 
Samuel  Griffiths,  Claire  McDowell;  Gilbert  Griffiths, 
Wallace  Middleton;  Myra  Griffiths,  Vivian  Winston; 
Belknap,  Emmett  Corrigan;  Mrs.  Asa  Griffiths,  Bodil 
Rosing;  Jephson,  Charles  B.  Middleton;  Titus  Alden, 
Albert  Hart;  Mrs.  Alden,  Fanny  Midgley;  Bella 
Griffiths,  Arlene  Judge;  Bertine  Cranston,  Evelvn 
Pierce;  Judge,  Arnold  Korff ;  Jill  Trumbull'.  Elizabeth 
Forrester;  Coroner  Fred  Heil,  Russell  Powell;  Earl 
Newcomb,  Imboden  Parrish;  Dep.  Sheriff  Kraut, 
Richard  Cramer. 

"COMMON  LAW.  THE "— RKO-Pathe.— From 
the  story  by  Robert  W.  Chambers.  Adapted  by  John 
Farrow.  Directed  by  Paul  L.  Stein.  The  cast: 
Valerie,  Constance  Bennett;  Neville,  Joel  McCrea; 
Cardemon,  Lew  Cody;  5am,  Robert  Williams;  Mrs. 
Clare  Collis,  Hedda  Hopper;  Stephanie,  Marion  Shill- 
ing; Querido,  Paul  Ellis;  John  Neville,  Sr.,  Walter 
Walker. 

"CONFESSIONS  OF  A  CO-ED  "—Paramount 
— From  the  story  by  an  anonymous  author.  Directed 
by  David  Burton  and  Dudley  Murphy.  The  cast: 
Dan,  Phillips  Holmes;  Patricia,  Sylvia  Sidney;  Hal, 
Norman  Foster;  Peggy,  Claudia  Dell;  Adelaide,  Flor- 
ence Britton;  Lucille,  Martha  Sleeper;  Mildred, 
Dorothy  Libaire;  Sally,  Marguerite  Warner;  Presi- 
dent, George  Irving;  Dean  Winslow,  Winter  Hall; 
Dean  Marbridge,  Eulalie  Jensen;  Mark,  Bruce 
Colman. 

"DER  GROSSE  TENOR"  (The  Great  Tenor)— 
UFA. — From  the  scenario  by  Hans  Mueller  and 
Robert  Liebmann.  Directed  by  Hanns  Schwarz. 
The  cast:  Albert  Winklemann,  Emil  Jannings;  Agalhe, 
Renate  Mueller;  Olga  von  Dagomirska,  Olga  Tschec- 
howa;  Kratochivil,  Winklemann's  valet,  Hans  Moser; 
Agathe's  Uncle,  Max  Guelstorff ;  Dr.  Marberg,  Eduard 
von  Winterstein;  Naurus  Colwyn,  Willy  Prager; 
Romanones,  Siegfried  Berisch;  Boris  Jussupoff, 
Wladimir  Sokoloff;  Filipo  Cardagno,  Evaristo 
Signorini;  Popper,  Oskar  Sima. 

"EX-BAD  BOY" — Universal. — From  the  play 
"The  Whole  Town's  Talking"  by  John  Emerson  and 
Anita  Loos.  Adapted  by  Dale  Van  Every.  Directed 
by  Vin  Moore.  The  cast:  Chester,  Robert  Armstrong; 
Ethel,  Jean  Arthur;  Swift,  George  Brent;  Mr.  Sim- 
mons, Spencer  Charters;  Mrs.  Simmons,  Grayce 
Hampton;  Lelty,  Lola  Lane;  Shields,  Jason  Robards. 

"  EXPENSIVE  WOM  EN  "  —  Warners.  —  From 
the  story  by  Wilson  Collison.  Adapted  by  Harvey 
Thew  and  Raymond  Griffith.  Directed  by  Hobart 
Henley.  The  cast:  Constance  Newton,  Dolores 
Costello;  Neil  Hartley,  Warren  William;  Arthur  Ray- 
mond, Anthony  Bushel!;  Bobby  Brandon,  Joe 
Donahue;  Melville  Raymond,  H.  B.  Warner;  Brandon's 
Pal,  Allan  Lane;  Raymond's  Pal,  Morgan  Wallace; 
Irene,  Mae  Madison;  Molly  Lane,  Polly  Walters; 
Martha,  Adele  Watson;  George  Allison,  William 
House. 

"FIVE  AND  TEN"— M-G-M.— From  the  story 
by  Fannie  Hurst.  Adapted  by  A.  P.  Younger. 
Directed  by  Robert  Z.  Leonard.  The  cast:  Jennifer, 
Marion  Davies;  Berry,  Leslie  Howard;  Jenny  Rarick, 
Irene  Rich;  John  Rarick,  Richard  Bennett;  Avery, 
Kent  Douglass;  Muriel,  Mary  Duncan;  Leslie,  Lee 
Beranger;  Piggy,  Arthur  Housman;  Brooks,  George 
Irving;  Hopkins,  Halliwell  Hobbes;  Dennison, 
Charles  Giblyn;  Taxi  Driver,  Henry  Armetta;  Midge, 
Ruth  Selwyn. 

"FORBIDDEN  ADVENTURE"— Paramount. 
—- From  the  story  "Let's  Play  King"  by  Sinclair 
Lewis.  Adapted  by  Edward  Paramore,  Jr.  Con- 
tinuity by  Norman  McLeod  and  Joseph  L.  Mankie- 
wicz.  Directed  by  Norman  Taurog.  The  cast: 
Daisy  Tail,  Mitzi  Green;  Bessie  Tail,  Edna  May 
Oliver;  Maggie  Tiffany,  Louise  Fazenda;  Tiny  Tim 
Tiffany,  Jackie  Searl;  King  Max,  Bruce  Line;  Queen 
Stdonia,  Virginia  Hammond;  A  Studio  Director,  Dell 
Henderson;  A  Supervisor,  Ben  Taggart;  Assistant 
Director,  Ben  Hall;  Casting  Director,  Jack  Baston. 

"GIRL  HABIT,  THE" — Paramount. — From  the 
play  by  A.  E.  Thomas  and  Clayton  Hamilton. 
Adapted    by    Owen    Davis    and    Gertrude    Purcell. 


Directed  by  Edward  Cline.  The  cast:  Charles  Cad- 
wallader  Floyd,  Charlie  Ruggles;  Jonesy,  his  valet, 
Donald  Meek;  Lucy  Ledyard,  Sue  Conroy;  Mrs. 
Ledyard,  Margaret  Dumont;  Tony  Moloney,  Allen 
Jenkins;  Sonya,  his  wife,  Tamara  Geva;  Huntley 
Palmer,  Douglas  Gilmore;  Warden,  Jerome  Daley; 
Warden's  wife,  Betty  Garde. 

"GOLDIE" — Fox. — From  the  story  by  Gene 
Towne  and  Paul  Perez.  Adapted  by  Gene  Towne 
and  Paul  Perez.  Directed  by  Benjamin  Stoloff.  The 
cast:  Bill,  Spencer  Tracy;  Spike,  Warren  Hymer; 
Goldie,  Jean  Harlow;  Constantino,  Lina  Basquette; 
Dolores,  Maria  Alba;  Russian  Girl,  Eleanor  Hunt; 
Wife,  Leha  Karnelly;  Husband,  Ivan  LinowjGonzafes, 
Jesse  De  Vorska;  Barker.  Eddie  Kane. 

"HOLY  TERROR,  A"  — Fox.— From  the 
novel  "Trailin'  "  by  Max  Brand.  Continuity  by 
Ralph  Block.  Directed  by  Irving  Cummings.  The 
cast:  Tony  Bard,  George  O'Brien;  Jerry  Foster,  Sally 
Eilers;  Kilty  Carroll,  Rita  La  Roy;  Steve  Nash, 
Humphrey  Bogart;  William  Drew,  James  Kirkwood; 
Butch  Morgan,  Stanley  Fields;  Thomas  Woodbury, 
Robert  Warwick;  Tom  Hedges,  Richard  Tucker;  Jim 
Lawlor,  Earl  Pingree. 

"HUSH  MONEY"— Fox.— From  the  scenario  by 
Philip  Klein  and  Courtenay  Terrett.  Directed  by 
Sidney  Lanfield.  The  cast:  Janet,  Joan  Bennett; 
Stuart  Elliott,  Hardie  Albright;  Steve,  Owen  Moore; 
Flo  Curtis,  Myrna  Loy;  Curtis,  C.  Henry  Gordon; 
Dan  Emmett,  Douglas  Cosgrove;  Maxie,  George  Raft; 
Puggie,  Hugh  White;  Flannigan,  George  Byron; 
Silvio,  Andre  Cheron;  Bootlegger,  Henry  Armetta; 
Mr.  Stockton,  George  Irving;  Mrs.  Stockton,  Nella 
Walker;  Miss  Stockton,  Joan  Castle. 

"I  TAKE  THIS  WOMAN  "—Paramount.— 
From  the  novel  "Lost  Ecstasy"  by  Mary  Roberts 
Rinehart.  Adapted  by  Vincent  Lawrence.  Directed 
by  Slavko  Vorkapich  and  Marion  Gering.  The  cast: 
Tom  McNair,  Gary  Cooper;  Kay  Dowling,  Carole 
Lombard;  Aunt  Bessie,  Helen  Ware;  Herbert  Forrest, 
Lester  Vail;  Mr.  Doivling,  Charles  Trowbridge;  Sue 
Barnes,  Clara  Blandick;  Clare  Hammell,  Mildred  Van 
Dorn;  Mallory,  Albert  Hart. 

"LAUGHING  SINNERS"— M-G-M.— From  the 
play  "The  Torch  Song"  by  Kenyon  Nicholson.  Con- 
tinuity by  Bess  Meredyth.  Directed  by  Harry 
Beaumont.  The  cast:  Ivy,  Joan  Crawford;  Howard, 
Neil  Hamilton;  Carl,  Clark  Gable;  Ruby,  Marjcrie 
Rambeau;  Cass  Wheeler,  Guy  Kibbee;  Mike,  Cliff 
Edwards;  Fred  Geer,  Roscoe  Karns;  Edna,  Gertrude 
Short;  Joe,  George  Cooper;  Humpty,  George  F. 
Marion;  Tink,  Bert  Woodruff. 

"  LAWLESS  WOM  AN,  THE  "—Chesterfield  — 
Directed  by  Richard  Thorpe.  The  cast:  June  Page, 
Vera  Reynolds;  Allan  Perry,  Carroll  Nye;  Poker 
Wilson,  Wheeler  Oakman;  faddy  Riordan,  Thomas 
Jackson;  Bill,  James  Curtis;  Kitty  Adams,  Gwen  Lee; 
Stan  Taylor,  Phillips  Smalley. 

"LE  MILLION" — Tobis  Production.— From 
the  play  by  G.  Berr  and  M.  Guillemaud.  Scenario 
and  direction  by  Rene  Clair.  The  cast:  Beatrice, 
Annabella;  Michel,  Rene  Lefebure;  Prosper,  Louis 
Allibert;  Crochard,  Paul  Ollivier;  Vanda,  Vanda 
Greville;  Sopranelli,  Constantin  Stroesco;  The  Singer, 
Odette  Talazac 

"LOVER  COME  BACK" — Columbia.— From 
the  story  by  Helen  Topping.  Adapted  by  Robert 
Shannon.  Directed  by  Erie  C.  Kenton.  The  cast: 
Connie,  Constance  Cummings;  Tom  Evans,  Jack 
Mulhall;  Vivian,  Betty  Bronson;  Yates,  Jameson 
Thomas;  Schullzy,  Fredrick  Santley;  Henry,  Jack 
Mack;  Mrs.  March,  Katherine  Givney;  Loretta, 
Loretta  Sayers;  Susan,  Susan  Fleming. 

"MAN  IN  POSSESSION,  THE"— M-G-M.— 
From  the  play  by  H.  M.  Harwood.  Adapted  by 
Sarah  Y.  Mason.  Directed  Dy  Sam  Wood.  The  cast: 
Raymond  Dabney,  Robert  Montgomery;  Clara,  Char- 
lotte Greenwood;  Crystal  Wetherby,  Irene  Purcell; 
Mr.  Dabney,  C.  Aubrey  Smith;  Mrs.  Dabney,  Beryl 
Mercer;  Claude  Dabney,  Reginald  Owen;  Sir  Charles 
Carlwright.  Alan  Mowbray;  Esther,  Maude  Eburne; 
A  Bailiff,  Forrester  Harvey;  A  Butcher,  Yorke  Sher- 
wood. 

"MIRACLE  WOMAN,  THE" — Columbia.— 
From  the  play  "Bless  You  Sister"  bv  John  Meehan 
and  Robert  Riskin.  Continuity  by  Dorothy  Howell. 
Adapted  by  Jo  Swerling.  Directed  by  Frank  Capra. 
The  Cast:  Florence  "Faith"  Fallon,  Barbara  Stan- 
wyck; John  Carson,  David  Manners;  Hornsby,  Sam 
Hardy;  Mrs.  Higgins,  Beryl  Mercer;  Welford,  Russell 
Hopton;  Simpson.  Charles  Middleton;  Collins.  Eddie 
Boland;  Gussie,  Thelma  Hill;  Violet,  Aileen  Carlyle; 
Brown,  Al  Stewart;  Briggs,  Harry  Todd. 

"NIGHT  ANGEL,  THE"— Paramount.— From 
the  story  by  Edmund  Goulding.  Directed  by 
Edmund  Goulding.  The  cast:  Yula  Martini,  Nancy 
Carroll;  Rudek  Berkem,  Fredric  March;  Theresa 
Masar,  Phoebe  Foster;  Countess  von  Martini,  Allison 
Skipworth;  Biezel,  Alan  Hale. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  August,  1931 


"NIGHT  NURSE" — Warners. — From  the  novel 
by  Dora  Macy.  Screen  play  by  Oliver  H.  P.  Garrett. 
Directed  by  William  A.  Wellman.  The  cast:  Lora 
Hart,  Barbara  Stanwyck;  Morlic,  Ben  Lyon;  Moloney, 
Joan  Blondcll;  Dr.  Bell,  Charles  Winninger;  Mrs. 
Rilchey,  Charlotte  Merriam;  F.gan,  an  interne, 
Edward  J.  Nugent;  Dr.  Ranger.  Ralf  Harolde;  Miss 
Dillon,  Vera  Lewis;  Mrs.  Maxwell,  Blanche  Kred- 
erici;  Nick.  Clark  Gable;  The  first  interne.  Allan 
Lane;  The  drunk,  Walter  McGrail;  One  of  the  Children, 
Betty  Graham;  The  other  child,  Marcia  Jones. 

"REBOUND" — RKO-Pathe.— From  the  play  by 
Donald  Ogden  Stewart.  Adapted  by  Horace  Jack- 
son. Directed  by  Edward  H.  Griffith.  The  cast: 
Sara,  Ina  Claire;  Bill,  Robert  Ames;  Evie,  Myrna 
Loy;  Liz,  Hcdda  Hopper;  Johnnie,  Robert  Williams; 
Lyman,  Hale  Hamilton;  Mr.  Jaffrey,  Walter  Walker; 
Mrs.  Jaffrey,  Louise  Closser  Hale;  Les,  Leigh  Allen. 

"RECKLESS  HOUR,  THE"— First  National. 
— From  the  play  "Ambush"  by  Arthur  Richman. 
Adapted  by  Florence  Ryerson.  Directed  by  John 
Francis  Dillon.  The  cast:  Margaret  Nichols,  Dorothy 
Mackaill;  Edward  Adams,  Conrad  Nagel;  Walter 
Nichols,  H.  B.  Warner;  Myrtle  Nichols,  Joan  Blondell; 
Allan  Crane,  Walter  Byron;  Harriet  Nichols,  Helen 
Ware;  Seymour  Jennison,  William  House;  Susie 
Jennison,  Dorothy  Peterson;  Hcnrard  Crane,  Claude 
King;  Stevens,  Ivan  Simpson;  Harry  Gleason,  Joe 
Donahue;  Rita,  Mae  Madison. 


"SHIPS  OF  HATE"— Trem  Carr.— From  the 
story  by  Wellyn  Totman.  Directed  by  J.  P. 
McCarthy.  The  cast:  Bart  Wallace,  Lloyd  Hughes; 
Grace  Walsh,  Dorothy  Sebastian;  Captain  Lash, 
Charles  Middleton;  Norman  Walsh,  Lloyd  Whitlock; 
The  Professor,  Theodore  Adams;  Hans,  Constantine 
Romanoff;  First  Mate,  Gordon  DeMain;  Peg,  Jean 
Mason. 


"SON  OF  INDIA"— M-G-M.—  From  the  book 
"Mr.  Isaacs"  by  F.  Marion  Crawford.  Continuity  by 
Ernest  Vajda.  Directed  by  Jacques  Feyder.  The 
cast:  Karim,  Ramon  Novarro;  William  Darsay, 
Conrad  Nagel;  Mrs.  Darsay,  Marjorie  Rambeau; 
Janice,  Madge  Evans;  Dr.  Wallace,  C.  Aubrey  Smith; 
Hamid.  Mitchell  Lewis;  Juggal,  John  Miljan;  Rao 
Rama,  Nigel  De  Brulier. 

"SQUAW  MAN,  THE"— M-G-M.— From  the 
story  by  Edwin  Milton  Royle.  Adapted  by  Lucien 
Hubbard  and  Lenore  Coffee.  Directed  by  Cecil  B. 
De  Mille.  The  cast:  James  Wyngate,  Warner  Baxter; 
Nalurich,  Lupe  Velez;  Diana,  Eleanor  Boardman; 
Cash  Hawkins,  Charles  Bickford;  Sir  John,  Roland 
Young;  Henry,  Paul  Cavanagh;  Shorty,  Raymond 
Hatton;  Mrs.  Jones,  Julia  Faye;  Sheriff  Hardy, 
DeWitt  Jennings;  Big  Bill,  J.  Farrcll  MacDonald; 
Little  Hal,  Dickie  Moore;  Tabywana,  Mitchell  Lewis; 
Andy,  Victor  Potel;  Grouchy,  Frank  Rice;  Dowager 
Lady  Kerhill,  Eva  Dennison;  Babs,  Lilian  Bond; 
Shanks,    Luke    Cosgrave;    Clark,    Frank    Hagney; 


General  Stafford,  Lawrence  Grant;  Meadows,  Harry 
Northrup;  McSorley,  Ed  Brady;  Pete,  Chrispin 
Martin;  Nick,  Henry  Stockbridge. 

"SWEEPSTAKES"  —  RKO-Pathe.  —  From  the 
story  by  Lew  Lipton.  Directed  by  Al  Rogell.  Tin' 
cast:  Bud  Doyle,  Eddie  Quillanj  Sleepy  Jones,  Janus 
Gleason;  Babe  Ellis,  Marian  Nixon;  Wally  Weber, 
Lew  Cody;  Bartender,  Paul  Hurst;  Pop  Blake.  Fred 
Burton;  Weber's  Trainer.  King  Baggott;  Speed 
Martin,  Billy  Sullivan;  Ma  Clancy,  Lillian  Leighton; 
The  Dude,  Mike  Donlin. 

"THREE  LOVES" — Terra.— From  the  novel  by 
Max  Brod.  Scenario  by  Ladislaus  Vajda.  Directed 
by  Kurt  Bernhardt.  The  cast:  Stasha,  Marlene 
Dietrich;  Dr.  Karoff,  Fritz  Kortner;  Henry  Leblanc, 
Uno  Henning;  Charles  Leblanc,  Oscar  Simiua;  Their 
mother,  Frieda  Richard;  Poilrier.  an  industrialist, 
Karl  Ettlinger;  Angele,  his  daughter,  Edith  Edwards. 

"THREE  WHO  LOVED"— Radio  Pictures.— 
From  the  story  by  Martin  Flavin.  Adapted  by 
Beulah  Marie  Dix.  Directed  by  George  Archainbaud. 
The  cast:  Helga,  Betty  Compson;  John,  Conrad 
Nagel;  Phil,  Robert  Ames;  Rooney,  Robert  Emmrtt 
Keane;  Annie,  Bodil   Rosing;  Sonny,  Dickie  Moore. 

"TRANSGRESSION" — Radio  Pictures.— From 
the  novel  by  Kate  Jordan.  Adapted  by  Elizabeth 
Meehan.  Directed  by  Herbert  Brenon.  The  cast: 
Elsie  Maury,  Kay  Francis;  Robert  Maury,  Paul 
Cavanagh;  Don  Arturo,  Ricardo  Cortez;  Honora 
Maury,  Nance  O'Neil;  Serafin,  John  Sainpolis;  Julie, 
Adrienne  d'Ambricourt;  Countess  Longueval,  Cissy 
Fitzgerald;  Paula  Vrain,  Doris  Lloyd;  Carlos, 
Augustino  Borgato. 

"TWO  GUN  MAN,  THE"— Tiffany.— From  the 
story  by  John  F.  Natteford.  Continuity  by  Earle 
Snell.  Directed  by  Phil  Rosen.  The  cast:  Blackie 
Weed,  Ken  Maynard;  Joan  Markham,  Lucille  Powers; 
Kitty,  Nita  Martan;  Joe  Kearney,  Lafe  McKee; 
Rancher  Markham,  Murdock  MacQuarrie;  Thorne, 
Charles  King;  Tullivtr,  Tom  London;  Riggs,  Walter 
Perry;  Kettle  Belly,  Will  Stanton;  Monty,  William 
Jackie;  Sheriff,  Ethan  Allen. 

"VIKING,  THE"— Varick  Frissell  Produc- 
tion.— From  the  story  by  Varick  Frissell.  Directed 
by  George  Melford.  The  cast:  Mary  Joan,  Louise 
Huntington;  Luke,  Charles  Starrett;  Capl.  Barker. 
Capt.  Bob  Bartlett;  Jed,  Arthur  Vinton;  and  250 
natives  of  the  Labrador  Coast  as  sealers,  members  of 
the  crew,  townspeople. 

"WOMEN  LOVE  ONCE"— Paramount. — From 
the  story  "Daddy's  Gone  A  Hunting"  by  Zoe  Akins. 
Directed  by  Edward  Goodman.  The  cast:  Julien 
Fields,  Paul  Lukas;  Helen  Fields,  Eleanor  Boardman; 
Hester  Dalgren,  Juliette  Compton;  Allen  Greenough, 
Geoffrey  Kerr;  Olga,  Judith  Wood;  Janet  Fields, 
Marilyn  Knowlden;  Theodore  Steivart,  Claude  King; 
Oscar,  Mischa  Auer. 


Don't  trust  your  mirror!  It  can't  tell  you  about 
the  invisible  dandruff  cap  clogging  the  pores  of 
your  scalp  and  stifling  the  growth  of  your  hair. 
Find  out  nowl  Gently  scratch  your  scalp — 
then  look  at  your  finger  r/ps. 

The  only  way  to  remove  dandruff  is  to  dia- 
olve  it,  then  wash  it  out.  Fitch's  Dandruff  Re- 
mover Shampoo  dissolves  and  removes  every 
particle  of  dandruff  instantly  under  a  money-back 
guarantee.  Rinses  thoroughly  in  hard  or  soft  water. 

Use  Fitch's  tonight  and  enjoy  the  sensation  of 
a  really  clean  scalp.  At  all  barber  and  beauty 
shops,  drug  and  department  stores. 

Send  for  free  trial  size  and  booklet. 

F.  W.  FITCH  CO.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa         PH  8 

Please  send  me  generous  free  trial  package  and  32 

page  educational  booklet  "Your  Hair  and  Scalp." 

Name   

A  ddress   

(In  Canada:     266  King  St.,  W.,  Toronto) 


You   CAIM'T   tell     him 
the  REAL   treason 

VOU  try  to  be  nice  because  you  want  him  to 
like  you  —  you  make  a  brave  attempt  to  smile 
and  be  natural  —  but  you  can't  tell  him  that 
you're  nearly  convulsed  with  pain.  «  *  *  Don  t 
waste  those  precious  vacation  days.  Kohler  Anti- 
dote offers  quick  relief  from  headache,  neuralgia, 
periodic  and  all  other  simple  nerve  pains.  Every 
druggist  has  it  --  in  powders  or  tablet  form. 
KOHLER  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

BALTIMORE    MD 

Manufacturers  also  ofKobUr 
One  Night  Corn  Cure 


KO  H  LE  R 


A  N  T  I  D  O  X 


We  call  this  plump,  cute  little  rascal  "Brown's  Betty."     She's  Joe  E. 

Brown's  new  daughter  and  her  real  name  is  Mary  Elizabeth  Ann  Brown, 

which  is  a  mouthful — even  for  Joe 


aaalEEargiailpI 

Qemoves-not  ott/y  relieves  pain" 


^ftloles 

How  to  banish  them 
A  simple,  safe  home  treat* 
ment— 16  years'  success  in  my 
practice.  Moles  (also  Big 
Growths)  dry  up  and  drop 
off.  Write  for  free  Booklet. 
WM.  DAVIS.  M.  D„  124-D  Grove  Ave.  Woodbridge,  N.  J 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  100 


REMEMBER  Madge  Evans?  Remember 
her  as  a  child  actress? 
Well,  Madge  Evans,  today,  is  a  self-pos- 
sessed young  woman  who  must  be  twenty-two 
or  thereabouts,  with  a  distinguished  voice,  soft 
blonde  hair  that  lies  in  the  most  sophisticated 
of  marcels  and  a  nice  sturdy  sense  of  humor. 
She's  the  answer  to  what  happens  to  child 
prodigies  when  they  stop  being  child  prodigies. 

HERE'S  one  of  those  real  mother  stories. 
Irene  Rich  had  been  anxious  to  play  the 
lead  in  Will  Rogers'  picture  "The  Plutocrat." 
She  wanted  it  more  than  any  offered  her  in  the 
last  few  years.  At  first  they  were  going  to  give 
the  part  to  somebody  else  but  every  time  there 
was  a  conference  Will  would  say,  "How  about 
Irene?" 

At  last  she  secured  the  role  and  then  she 
asked  if  the  shooting  schedule  could  be  ar- 
ranged so  that  she  could  have  time  to  attend 
the  graduation  of  her  daughter,  Frances,  from 
Smith  College.  She  was  told  it  couldn't  be 
done. 

So  she  turned  down  a  role  she  wanted  and  a 
$10,000  salary,  to  go  to  her  daughter.  She 
gave  Frances  a  diamond  bracelet  and  a  high 
powered  car. 

MERCY,  what  a  fuss  there's  been  about  this 
Ruth  Chatterton  contract.  One  news- 
paper prints  she  stays  with  Paramount — 
another  that  she  goes  to  Warners.  And  all  on 
the  same  day. 

Here's  the  low-down,  as  we  go  to  press. 

Warners  and  Paramount  had  a  nice  little 
argument  about  releasing  pictures.  Para- 
mount wouldn't  put  any  more  Warner  pictures 
into  some  of  their  chain  theaters.  That  burned 
Warners  up,  so  they  went  out  and  swiped  Kay 
Francis,  Bill  Powell  and  Chatterton.  Now, 
Paramount  was  put  out  about  Powell  and 
Francis,  but  when  it  came  to  Chatterton,  one 
of  their  best  money-makers,  the  fur  began  to 
fly. 

So,  Paramount  decided  to  run  Warner  Bros, 
pictures  if  Warners  let  Chatterton  remain  at 
home. 

THERE'S  been  a  lot  of  conjecture  in  Holly- 
wood about  who  would  take  the  place  of 
Lon  Chaney  on  the  screen.  Lionel  Barrymore 
and  Wallace  Beery  have  been  mentioned.  It's 
natural  that  Metro,  where  Lon  finished  his 
career,  should  hunt  for  the  successor.  But  it's 
natural,  also,  that  Universal,  where  Lon 
started,  should  be  in  the  running. 

And  Universal's  choice  is  Bela  Lugosi  who 
made  "Dracula"  a  real  box-office  wow.  Now 
in  "  Frankenstein"  he's  playing  the  part  of  an 
"unborn"  man — one  designed  by  science,  an 
eight-foot  monster  without  sentiment.  And 
only  his  chin  and  his  eyebrows  are  to  show  on 
the  screen. 

NOT  satisfied  with  simply  writing  to  stars 
for  photographs,  the  fans  have  taken  to 
wiring  and  telephoning  long  distance.  Connie 
Bennett  got  such  a  call  recently  as  did  Mary 
Astor. 

Both  gals  air  mailed  pictures  immediately — 
but  how  did  the  fans  get  the  private  telephone 
numbers? 

Mary  Astor's  call  was  from  Atlanta. 

HERE'S  the  ultimate  in  microphone  sensi- 
tivity. 
A  sound  man  called  his  executive  and  said, 
"What  kind  of  sound  do  you  want  in  this 
make-up  boudoir  sequence?" 

"Strictly  natural,  strictly  natural,"  said  the 
exec.  "Be  sure  you  get  the  real  sounds  of 
make-up — you  know,  the  powder  puff  and  all 
that  sort  of  thing." 

128 


["  IKE  Cinderella  stories?  How's  this? 
•*-'  A  Paramount  executive  visited  his  Los 
Angeles  theater.  They  wanted  a  picture  taken 
with  a  pretty  girl,  so  Patricia  Farr,  the  best- 
looking  usherette,  was  brought  out.  One  look, 
and  the  executive  reached  for  his  fountain  pen. 
The  dotted  line  was  provided  at  the  studio  the 
next  day,  where  Patricia  signed  a  contract  to 
play  a  part  with  Dick  Arlen  and  Peggy  Shannon 
in  "The  Secret  Call." 

A  CCORDING  to  J.  B.  Priestly,  the  British 
■**-author,  "  Hollywood  is  a  place  where  people 
get  up  at  six  o'clock  in  the  morning  and  do 
physical  exercise. 

"It  is  terribly  respectable  and  even  duller 
than  Bloomsbury." 

Is  Mr.  Priestly  kidding  us? 

Or,  perhaps,  did  someone  kid  Mr.  Priestly? 

TpHREE  months  ago,  Norman  Phillips, 
*•  vaudevillian  with  his  first  big  break  in 
pictures  in  Joan  Crawford's  "Laughing 
Sinners,"  dropped  dead  as  he  walked  from  the 
M-G-M  commissary. 


Six  months,  said  the  judge.  Which 
means  that  Dick  Barthelmess  and  his 
former  wife,  Mary  Hay,  each  have 
their  little  daughter,  Mary  Hay 
Barthelmess,  for  that  period.  Dick's 
six  months  have  just  started,  and  he's 
here  shown  leaving  New  York  for 
Hollywood 


His  fourteen-year-old  son  is  carrying  on  for 
him — supporting  the  family. 

Buster  Keaton,  a  vaudevillian  once,  gave  the 
boy  the  leading  child  role  in  "The  Sidewalks  of 
New  York." 

And  Norman,  Jr.,  is  making  good! 

"COR  his  first  picture  at  Warner  Bros.,  William 
■*-  Powell  had  to  tango.  The  instructor  com- 
plimented him  on  the  speedy  way  in  which  he 
picked  up  the  steps.  "Well,  you  see,"  said  Bill, 
"  Carole  takes  me  in  hand  every  evening  and 
makes  me  practice  with  her  and  that  doesn't 
seem  like  work."  Of  course  you  know  who 
Carole  is  by  now. 

AND  now  the  Marquis  de  la  Falaise  is 
-*Mamous  for  something  besides  being  the  ex- 
hubby  of  Gloria. 

He  entertained  M.  F.  Hennessey,  the  "Three 
Star  Hennessey"  man  from  Paris. 

Hollywood  sleuths  discovered  they  were 
cousins.  And  to  be  a  cousin  to  a  famous  dis- 
tiller in  America  today — well,  use  your  own 
judgment. 

SH-H-H-H-H-H  !  !  !  Skendel  .  .  . 
Bebe  Daniels,  good  wife  though  she  ap- 
pears to  be,  and  even  expectant-blessed- 
eventer  though  she  is,  actually  keeps  a  change 
of  clothing  handy  at  all  times  down  at  a  men's 
club  in  Long  Beach,  California.  ...!!! 

But  it's  all  right.  The  club  is  the  Officers' 
Club  of  the  322nd  Pursuit  Squadron,  United 
States  Army  Air  Corps.  And  Bebe  is  an 
honorary  officer  of  the  outfit.  So  she  has  a 
locker,  with  her  own  name  on  the  door,  con- 
taining her  officer's  uniform. 

SOME  misguided  soul,  evidently  trying  to 
leave  a  heroic  image  of  the  late  Louis 
Wolheim's  rugged  manliness  behind,  recently 
wrote  a  copyrighted  piece  that  told  how 
Wolheim,  interrupted  at  a  luncheon  discussion 
of  Shakespeare,  Shelley  and  Swinburne,  had 
slugged  a  gangster,  knocked  him  down  twice, 
and,  when  the  fellow  pulled  a  gun  on  him, 
looked  him  square  in  the  eye  and  said : 

"It  takes  nerve  to  shoot  a  man,  damn  you. 
And  you  haven't  the  guts  to  pull  the  trigger." 

The  gangster,  the  article  continued,  formed 
a  deep  admiration  for  the  actor  and  was  con- 
tinually present  at  his  stage  performances  in 
"What  Price  Glory"  thereafter.  Also  that  he 
kept  sending  flowers  to  the  hospital  while  he 
was  sick  and  cried  when  Wolheim  died. 

Louis  Wolheim  was  too  intelligent — and  too 
normal  a  citizen — to  slug  gangsters  and  deliver 
hammy  speeches  when  a  gun  was  stuck  in  his 
ribs. 

We  don't  believe  it. 

VIRGINIA  CHERRILL  had  worked  about 
ten  days  on  George  O'Brien's  new  picture, 
"A  Holly  Terror,"  when  she  was  removed  and 
Sally  Eilers  substituted. 

Investigating,  we  found  the  blonde  heroine 
of  Charlie  Chaplin's  "  City  Lights"  is  becoming 
popular  socially,  but  unpopular  professionally. 

For  example,  a  film  magazine  wanted  to  run 
her  picture  on  a  cover.  The  publicity  depart- 
ment made  five  separate  appointments,  but 
Virginia  broke  each  one.  A  representative 
telephoned  Mrs.  Cherrill.  "Virginia  has  so 
many  social  engagements,  she  can't  be  an- 
noyed by  anything  like  that!"  she  answered. 

Another  day  she  saw  a  picture  of  herself  in 
Photoplay  which  didn't  please  her.  She 
rushed  to  the  publicity  department  and  raised 
— well,  there's  only  one  word  to  express  it.  A 
writer  who  was  present  had  been  planning  to 
do  a  story  on  her. 

He  said,  when  she  flounced  out,  "I  would 
never  write  a  story  about  her." 


PTEMBER 


25  CENTS 


e  Man 

^ho  Tried  to  Elope 
Nth  Greta  Garbo 


■9 

m 

• 

K\^ 

-^ 

.. 

■  '  ^ 

i 

,        H 

&' 

l^^m^ 

< 


BARBARA 
STANWYCK 


AH 


OLLYWOOD 


Star  Who  Is 

granddaughter 
of  an  empress 


o 

\    /  /  //|/|    l/l/l  /?  K  yet  your  Powc'er  c'ln3S/  r°"Se  stays  on 

^o/  LiJflLilULrL^     and  you  look  ALWAYS  LOVELY 


Summer  .  .  .  with  old  ocean  beckoning  down 
the  white  sands  .  .  .  limpid  lakes  mirroring 
forth  joy  .  .  .  slim  young  bodies  flashing  into 
caressing  waters.  Summer  .  .  .  calling  you  to  a 
thousand  activities  .  .  .  whispering  of  romance 
in  night  silence  .  .  .  thrilling  you  with  the  joy 
of  living  every  golden  hour  intensely. 

Ah,  yes!  But  there  must  be  no  pale  cheeks 
after  the  swim  ...  no  overflushed  appearance 
of  exertion  'neath  the  sun's  ardors  ...  no  shiny 
nose.  You  must  remain  serenely,  coolly  beau- 
tiful under  all  conditions  to  fully  enjoy 
summer  .  .  . 

"Summer  -  Proof"  Make-Up.  —  Princess  Pat 
beauty  aids,  if  used  together,  give  a  summer- 
proof  make-up.  You  can  actually  go  in  swim- 
ming and  come  out  with  color  perfect  —  or 
dance  through  the  evening  secure  in  the 
knowledge  that  one  application  of  make-up  is 
sufficient  for  lasting  beauty. 

For  make-up  that  will  last  under  trying  con- 
ditions you  first  apply  Princess  Pat  Ice  Astrin- 
gent—  just  as  you  would  ordinary  vanishing 


cream.  Only,  you  see,  Ice  Astringent  gives 
the  skin  lasting  coolness,  contracts  the  pores 
and  makes  the  skin  of  fine,  beautiful  texture. 
After  Ice  Astringent,  apply  Princess  Pat  rouge 
for  color  which  moisture  will  not  affect.  Then 
use  Princess  Pat  almond  base  powder  —  the 
most  clinging  powder  ever  made  —  and  one 
which  gives  beautiful,  pearly  lustre.  And,  of 
course,  Princess  Pat  wonderful  new  lip  rouge! 

Now  in  the  Brilliant  Week  End  Set. — This  is 
really  a  sparkling,  wonder-value  "acquaint- 
ance" set  —  enough  of  each  preparation  for 
two  weeks'  use  —  to 
last  throughout  your 
vacation.  Also  a  per- 
fectly wonderful 
beauty  book  of  sum- 
mer make-up  secrets 
and  special  summer 
care  to  keep  the  skin 
lovely.  In  the  Week 
End  Set  you  will  re- 
ceive generous  tubes 
of   Ice   Astringent, 


PRINCESS   PATssS 


Skin  Cleanser  (the  modern  cold  cream),  Skin 
Food  Cream,  almond  base  Powder,  Rouge  and 
Lip  Rouge.  The  charge  of  25c  pays  only  for 
packaging  the  set  in  its  beautiful  box,  and  for 
postage.  Consequently  we  desire  to  sell  only 
one  set  to  a  customer.  And  we  respectfully 
urge  your  promptness. 

Be  Your  Most  Beautiful  "Summer  Self".    All 

fragrant  and  beautiful — all  charming  —  all 
serenely  perfect.  That  should  be  your  "sum- 
mer self."  The  Week  End  Set  will  bring  this 
loveliness  unfailingly. 

get  this  Week  End 

Set-  SPECIAL 

The  very  popular  Princess  Pat  Week  End  Set 
for  this  COUPON  and  25c  {coin).  Easily  a 
month's  supply  of  almond  base  powder  and 
FIVE  other  delightful  Princess  Pat  prepara- 
tions.   Beautifully  decorated  boudoir  box. 


CHICAGO.  U.  S.  A.    (IN  CANADA.  93  CHURCH  ST.,  TORONTO) 


PRINCESS  PAT,  2709  S.  Wells  St.,  Chicago. 
Dept,  A-1569.    Enclosed  find  25c  for  which  send 
me  the  Princess  Pat  Week  End  Set. 


Name  (print). 

Street 

City  and  Stati 


Photoplay  Magazine  kor  September,  1931 


// 


DISCOVERED    .    .    . 

BY     A     DEBUTANTE 

pink   tooth   brush! 


i 


T  AM  rather  alluring  when  I'm  all  dressed 
up!  Even  father  opens  his  eyes  a  bit  when 
his  grown-up  daughter  conies  into  a  room! 
And  mother,  of  course,  is  proud  of  me,  too, 
but  she  takes  in  the  details  that  father  never 
gets.  Said  this  morning  that  my  teeth  were 
not  as  white  as  they  used  to  be  and  that  she'd 
better  marry  me  off  quick!  Oh  well.  It's  so 
darn  discouraging.  I  give  them  splendid  care, 


brush  them  regularly  without  fail.  And  now 
I'm  headed  to  be  a  famous  old  wall-flower. 

"Now,  could  that  'pink'  upon  my  brush 
have  anything  to  do  with  the  dullness  of  my 
once-famous  smile?   Gums  shouldn't  bleed 

—  they  shouldn't  be  allowed  to — I  know  that. 
I  ought  to  do  something  about  'em  — massage 

—  stimulation  —  a  little  daily  care.  I  had  les- 
sons on  that  back  East  in  school.    And  I'm 


I  PAN  A  tooth 


DEFEATS  "PINK   TOOTH    BRUSH' 


paste 

BRINGS    BEAUTY   TO   THE   TEETH 


going  to  begin  again  with  Ipana.  I'm  going 
to  go  in  for  gum  massage  —  and  we'll  see 
then  who'll  knock  the  stag  line  dead!" 

"Pink  tooth  brush"  can  happen  to  any- 
body—at any  age.  Its  cause?  The  foods  we 
nowadays  prefer,  foods  so  delectable  and 
soft  that  they  give  the  gums  almost  none  of 
the  exercise  needed  for  healthy  hardness. 
Lacking  stimulation,  gums  become  listless, 
lazy,  touchy  —  until  at  length  there's  "pink" 
on  your  tooth  brush,  pretty  regularly. 

And  "pink  tooth  brush"  may  prove  rather 
serious  if  allowed  to  go  on.  It  may  not  only 
spoil  the  polish  of  the  teeth,  but  may  lead 
to  any  one  of  a  group  of  gum  troubles  —  to 
gingivitis,  or  Vincent's  disease,  or  the  less 
frequent  but  more  serious  pyorrhea. 

Neglected  too  long,  "pink  tooth  brush" 
may  even  threaten  some  of  your  otherwise 
sound  teeth  through  infection  at  the  roots! 

And  the  best  time  to  get  after  "pink  tooth 
brush"  is  today.  There  is  a  simple,  inexpen- 
sive way  to  defeat  it. 

Get  a  tube  or  two  of  Ipana  Tooth  Paste. 
Clean  your  teeth  with  it  in  the  regular  way. 
But  each  time  you  clean  them,  put  some 
fresh  Ipana  on  your  brush  or  finger-tip  and 
gently,  tlioroughly  massage  it  into  your  in- 
active gums.  The  ziratol  in  Ipana,  plus  the 
twice-daily  massage,  stimulates  the  circu- 
lation and  firms  the  gum  walls.  Keep  on 
using  Ipana  with  massage  —  and  you  won't 
be  bothered  with  "pink  tooth  brush"! 
/  *  t 

I1RISTOL-MYERS  CO.,  Dcpt.  1-91 
7  i  West  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Kindly  scud  me  a  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH 
PASTE.  Enclosed  is  a  two-cent  stamp  to  cover 
partly  the  cost  of  packing  and  mailing. 

Nam* 

Street     

City State 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


PARAMOUNT  BRINGS  YOU  ANOTHER  MIGHTY  MASTERPIECE 


AN  AMFRIfAN 


Based  upon  the  novel  by 


THEODORE  DREISER 


PHILLIPS  HOLMES  ■  SYLVIA  SIDNEY  •  FRANCES  DEE 

D„.c..jk  JOSEF  VON  STERNBERG 


by 

Millions  have  read  the  book.  Millions  await 
the  picture.  A  story  of  average  human  beings. 
The  boy  next  door.  The  girl  down  the  street. 
A  drama  of  love,  temptation,  courage  and 
folly  that  might  happen  to  YOU.   One  of  the 


great  motion  pictures  of  any  season.  Produced 
by  Paramount,  leader  of  the  entertainment 
world.  Don't  miss  it.  Ask  your  theatre  mana- 
ger now  when  it  is  coming.  "//  it's  a  Para- 
mount Picture  it's  the  bett  show  in  town!" 


PAKAMOUNT  ii.DG„   NIW  YOtK 


HOTOPL 

The  World's  Leading  Motion  Picture  Publication 


Vol.  XL  No.  4 


JAMES   R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publisher 


September,  1931 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  for 
the   best   picture   of  the   year 

1920  1923  1926 

"HUMOR-        "The  "BEAU 

ESQUE"    COVERED         GESTE" 
WAGON" 

1921  1924  1927 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 


1922 

1925 

1928 

ROBIN 

"THE  BIG 

"FOUR 

IOOD" 

PARADE" 

1929 

"DISRAELI" 

SONS" 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets  . 

Friendly  Advice  on  Girls' 

Problems 


10 


l(i 


Hollywood  Menus 83 

Questions  and  Answers      ...  86 

Screen  Memories  from  Photoplay  110 

Addresses  of  the  Stars    .      .      .     .  119 

Casts  of  Current  Photoplays       .      .  1 26 


High-Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots James  R.Qutrk  25 

Granddaughter  of  an  Empress        ....  Catherine  Albert     28 

The  Man  Who  Tried  to  Elope  With  Garbo     .        Rilla  Page  Palmborg  32 

Charm?    Xo!    No!    You  Must  Have  Glamour  .         Catherine  Albert  38 

Seymour— Photoplay's  Style  Authority 41 

Don't  Expect  Too  Much Jeanne  North  45 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 46* 

Love  on  the  Rocks Leonard  Hall  51 

Why  Carole  Changed  Her  Mind Ruth  Bif.ry  .').'> 

$5,000  in  Prizes 60 

What  Do  They  Smoke? Cal  York  70 

Studio  Rambles Frances  Kish  128 

Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 6 

The  Shadow  Stage 56 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 108 

Personalities 

Roughing  It  With  Clara Harry  Lanc;  30 

Phillips  Holmes     .        .                 57 

George  Comes  to  Earth Harry  Lang  40 

Constance  and  Richard  Bennett 50 

The  Way  I  See  It Ronald  Colman  65 

Lil  and  Eddie  and  Their  Red  and  White  "Shack" 66 

A  New  Picture  Thief Roth  Beery  68 

Marian  Marsh 72 

Short  Stories 

Studio  Romance Octavcs  Rot  Cohen  34 

Her  Own  Best  Enemy \«.\es  Christine  Johnston  52 


Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 
Editorial  Offices.  221  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City  Publishing  Office.  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

The  International  News  Company.  Ltd..  Distributing  Agents.  5  Bream's  Building,  London.  England 

James  R.  Quirk.  President  Robert  M.  Eastman.  Vice-President  Kathrvn  Dougherty,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba;  S3.00  Canada;  S3.50  for  foreign  countries.    Remittances 

should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    Caution — Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24,  1912.  at  the  Postofhce  at  Chicago,  111.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879. 

Copyright,  1931,  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company,  Chicago 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 


■^Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


AFFAIRS     OF     ANNABELLE,     THE— Fox  — 

Jeanettc  MacDonald  and  Victor  McLaglen  in  a  laugh- 
worthy  farce.     (Juh) 

•     ALEXANDER  HAMILTON  —  Warners- 
George  Arliss,   need   we   say   more?     Another 
superb  characterization  of  an  historic  figure.  (Aug.) 

ALMOST  A  HONEYMOON— British  Inter- 
national.— A  light  bedroom  farce.  The  gags  would 
have  been  funny  ten  years  ago.   Very  mild.     (March) 

ALOHA— Rogell-Tiffany  Production.— The  old 
"Bird  of  Paradise"  plot  made  over  for  the  talkies. 
Some  quite-good  comedy  and  a  lot  of  surefire  sob 
sluff.  Ben  Lyon  and  Raquel  Torres  work  hard. 
(March) 

ALWAYS  GOODBYE— Fox.— Elissa  Landi  gives 
a  charming  performance  in  a  rather  ordinary  piece. 
Lewis  Stone  and  Paul  Cavanagh  support  her.  See  la 
Landi.     (July) 

•  AN  AMERICAN  TRAGEDY— Paramount.— 
Dreiser's  great  tragedy  becomes  one  of  the 
month's  best  pictures.  Phillips  Holmes  and  Sylvia 
Sidney  head  a  glorious  cast.  Not  for  the  children. 
(Aug.) 

BACHELOR  APARTMENT— Radio  Pictures  — 
The  superb  direction  and  acting  of  Lowell  Sherman 
make  this  sophisticated  story  interesting  from  start  to 
finish.  Mae  Murray  returns  as  a  modern  vamp,  a 
restless  married  woman.    Splendid  cast.    (May) 

BAD  SISTER— Universal.— Sidney  Fox,  talented 
little  newcomer,  plays  the  title  role  in  this  entirely 
natural  story  based  on  Booth  Tarkington's  "The 
Flirt."    Conrad  Nagel  is  the  hero.    (May) 

BEHIND  OFFICE  DOORS— Radio  Pictures.— 

Mary  Astor  fine  as  the  clever  secretary  who  helps  her 
boss  (Robert  Ames)  to  rise  to  importance  in  the  in- 
dustrial world.     Interesting  story.     (April) 

BEYOND  VICTORY— RKO-Pathe.— Poor  war 
film,  starring  Bill  Boyd.  ZaSu  Pitts,  Lew  Cody  and 
Jimmy  Gleason  make  the  effort  but  can't  do  much  for 
this  one.     (May) 

BIG  BUSINESS  GIRL— First  National.— Lively 
comedy  of  1931  styles  in  business  and  love.  Plenty  of 
laughs,  some  thrills,  Ricardo  Cortez,  Frank  Albertson 
and  Loretta  Young  in  pretty  clothes.  A  good  movie. 
(May) 

BODY  AND  SOUL— Fox.— See  this  one.  Great 
entertainment.  Charlie  Farrell  and  Elissa  Landi 
(from  the  stage).  You'll  like  her.  Myrna  Loy  is  the 
mean  one.     (April) 

BORN  TO  LOVE— RKO-Pathe.— Ancient  plot 
of  the  war  nurse.  Two  officers  and  whose-baby-is-it 
fails  to  be  highly  entertaining  in  spite  of  the  efforts 
of  Constance  Bennett.     (June) 

BROAD  MINDED— First  National.— Joe  E. 
Brown  tries  hard  to  bring  a  lot  of  moribund  jokes  and 
gags  back  to  life,  but  there's  scarcely  a  giggle.    (June) 

BY  ROCKET  TO  THE  MOON— UFA.— The 
Germans  present  an  interesting  lesson  in  astronomy, 
if  you  like  astronomy.     (April) 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  dull  story 
about  a  Robin-Hoodish  captain  whose  lawless  deeds 
are  all  for  a  good  end.  Victor  Varconi  and  Fay  Wray. 
(July) 

CAUGHT  CHEATING— Tiffany  Productions.— 
George  Sidney  and  Charlie  Murray  get  tangled  with 
a  Chicago  gangster's  wife  and  are  taken  for  a  ride. 
Fast-moving  and  pretty  good  fun.     (March) 

CHANCES— First  National.— Young  Doug's  first 
starring  picture  is  a  war  thriller.  The  lad  is  good 
but  the  story  is  so-so.     (July) 

CHARLIE  CHAN  CARRIES  ON— Fox.— Grand 
mystery  with  lots  of  thrills  and  romance.  Warner 
Oland  marvelous  as  Chan.  John  Garrick  and  Mar- 
guerite Churchill  are  the  love  interest.     (April) 

G 


CHILDREN  OF  DREAMS— Warners— A  musi- 
cal which  you  can  miss  and  think  nothing  of  it. 
(April) 

•  CITY  LIGHTS— Chaplin-United  Artists.— 
The  one  and  only  Chaplin  makes  another 
masterpiece.  Magnificent  comedy  and  heartbreak- 
ing pathos  intermingled.  You  can  see  it  again  and 
again.     (March) 

•  CITY  STREETS  —  Paramount.  —  Absorbing, 
fast-moving  gang  melodrama,  well  directed. 
Gary  Cooper  and  Sylvia  Sidney  (from  the  New  York 
stage)  give  grand  performances.  Don't  miss  it.  (June) 

CLEARING  THE  RANGE— Allied.— Hoot  Gib- 
son and  the  wife.  Sally  Eilers.in  a  fine  Western  with 
thrills,  laughs  and  plenty  of  action.     (June) 

COMMON   LAW,    THE— RKO-Pathe.— A    poor 

adaptation  of  an  old  favorite  but  Constance   Bennett 
is  worth  seeing.     Sophisticated  fare.  (Aug.) 


WOW  I  How 

that  new  lad,  Clark  Gable, 
is  clicking  with  the  public  all 
over  the  United  States. 
Look  at  that  picture  of  him 
in  Photoplay's  portrait  gal' 
lery. 

Next  month  Harry  Lang  will 
give  you  one  of  his  clever  pen 
portraits  of  Clark  and  his 
career  from  oil  driller  at 
fourteen  to  Garbo's  leading 
man  at  thirty. 

Dont  miss  the 
October  issue  of 

Photoplay 


COMRADES  OF  1918— Forenfilms.— Gruesome, 
harrowing  German  talkie  follows  the  fortunes  of  four 
young  Teuton  soldiers  in  the  last  year  of  the  late  war. 
Don't  take  the  children.    (May) 

CONFESSIONS  OF  A  CO-ED— Paramount  — 
Not  a  very  convincing  piece  with  Sylvia  Sidney, 
Phillips  Holmes  and  Norman  Foster.  College 
atmosphere.     (Aug.) 

•  CONNECTICUT  YANKEE,  A— Fox— It's 
better  than  the  silent  version  and  you'll  love 
Will  Rogers.  William  Farnum  and  Myrna  Loy  are 
excellent.  Maureen  O'Sullivan  and  Frank  Albertson 
supply  the  love  interest.     (April) 

CONQUERING  HORDE,  THE— Paramount.— 
Dick  Arlen  makes  this  Western  fine  entertainment. 
Fay  Wray  adorable  as  the  girl.     (April) 

CRACKED  NUTS— Radio  Pictures.— Wheeler 
and  Woolsey  in  a  rush  of  dialogue  to  the  screen,  and 
not  very  good  dialogue.    Amusing  in  spots.     (April) 

•  DADDY  LONG  LEGS— Fox.— The  beloved 
classic  with  Janet  Gaynor  in  a  role  just  suited 
to  her  but  just  a  little  too  saccharine.  Warner  Baxter 
as  the  bachelor.     Take  the  family.     (July) 


DAMAGED  LOVE— Sono  Art-World  Wide.— 
Pretty  mild.  June  Collyer's  charm  and  dimples 
save  it  from  being  an  entire  waste  of  time.      (March) 

DANCE  FOOLS,  DANCE—  M-G-M  —  Fast  and 
thrilling  entertainment.  Joan  Crawford  again  proves 
herself  a  great  dramatic  actress.  Billy  Bakewell  fine 
as  the  weak  young  brother  who  falls  in  with  gang- 
sters.    (March) 

DAYBREAK— M-G-M.— The  charming  perform- 
ances of  Helen  Chandler  and  Ramon  Novarro,  as  the 
student  prince,  make  this  romantic  and  wistful  love 
story  well  worth  seeing.     (June) 

DER  GROSSE  TENOR— UFA.— A  slow  moving, 
all-German  talkie  with  Emil  Jannings  in  a  typical 
Jannings  role.    A  song  or  two.     (Aug.) 

•  DIRIGIBLE— Columbia.— Thrilling  melo- 
drama of  adventure  at  the  South  Pole.  The 
Navy  helped  make  it  and  the  airplane  and  dirigible 
shots  leave  you  breathless.  Ralph  Graves,  Jack  Ho't 
and  Fay  Wray  take  high  honors.    (May) 

•  DISHONORED— Paramount— Marlene 
Dietrich  exciting  as  an  Austrian  spy  in  a  tense 
story,  splendidly  directed.  Victor  McLaglen  great  as 
the  Russian  officer.     (May) 

DOCTORS'  WIVES— Fox.— Joan  Bennett,  War- 
ner Baxter  and  Victor  Varconi  in  a  story  of  jealousy. 
Not  very  convincing.     (April) 

DON'T  BET  ON  WOMEN— Fox.— Husbands, 
wives  and  lovers  mix-up.  Good  adult  entertainment, 
with  smart  dialogue.  Roland  Young,  Edmund  Lowe, 
Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Una  Merkel  make  the  most 
of  their  parts.     (April) 

DRACULA — Universal. — A  mystery  story  full  of 
creeps  and  thrills.  Helen  Chandler  grand  as  the 
terrified  heroine.     (March) 

DRUMS  OF  JEOPARDY,  THE— Tiffany  Prod. 
— Mystery  melodrama  with  enough  murders  to  satisfy 
the  bloodthirsty.  Good  cast  headed  by  Warner  Oland 
and  June  Collyer.     (April) 

DUDE  RANCH— Paramount.— Jack  Oakie  woos 
and  wins  June  Collyer  in  this  hilarious  comedy  on  a 
dude  ranch,  locale  of  many  complications.  Not  a  dull 
moment.     (June) 

EASIEST  WAY,  THE— M-G-M.— A  modern 
sophisticated  story,  beautifully  directed.  Constance 
Bennett,  Adolphe  Menjou,  Anita  Page  and  Bob 
Montgomery  do  some  grand  acting — and  what 
costumes!     (March) 

•  EAST  LYNNE— Fox.— Don't  miss  this  one. 
Beautiful,  artistic  production  of  the  heart- 
breaking old  melodrama.  Ann  Harding  captivat- 
ingly  beautiful.  Fine  support  by  Conrad  Nagel  and 
Clive  Brook.     (April) 

EVERYTHING'S  ROSIE— Radio  Pictures.— One 

of  the  talkiest  talkies  yet  released.     (July) 

EX-BAD  BOY— Universal. — If  you  like  gag- 
farce,  you'll  get  a  kick  out  of  this.  Robert  Armstrong 
and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  comedy  acting.     (Aug.) 

EXPENSIVE  WOMEN— Warners.— A  pretty  un- 
happy return  to  the  screen  for  Dolores  Costello.  The 
less  said  about  it  the  better.     (Aug.) 

•  FAME — First  National. — Beautifully  and  hu- 
manly told  story  of  everyday  people.  Nothing 
spectacular,  but  full  of  charm.  Doris  Kenyon  heads 
a  perfect  cast.     (June) 

FIFTY  MILLION  FRENCHMEN— Warners.— 

American  tourists  in  Paris.  Moves  so  fast  it  leaves 
you  weak.  One  good  gag  after  another.  Don't 
miss  it.      (March) 

FIGHTING  THRU  —  Tiffany  Productions.  — 
Worth  the  price  of  admission.  Ken  Maynard  and 
his  horse  "Tarzan"  do  some  fine  work  and  the 
beautiful  Jeanette  Loff  helps  considerably.      (March) 

FINGER  POINTS,  THE— First  National.— Dick 
Barthelmess  as  a  reporter  for  one  of  Chicago's  biggest 
newspapers,  gets  in  with  gangsters.  An  intensely 
absorbing  story.  Fay  Wray  and  Regis  Toomey  give 
splendid  support.     (May) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  14  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


GEORGE  ARLISS 


//>  ALEXANDER  HAMILTON 

WIT  H 

DORIS    KENYOIM  •  JUNE  COLLIER  •  DUDLEY    DIGCES 

The  lovable  George  Arliss  of  "The  Millionaire"  comes  to  you  in  a  new  and 
greater  part  .  .  .  Lover — statesman — hero!  .  .  .  adventurous  and  debonair! 
. . .  experimenting  with  love  .  .  .  outwitting  his  adversaries  . .  •  but  discovering 
that  politics,  as  well  as  life,  makes  strange  bedfellows  .  .  .  Inimitable  Mr. 
Arliss  in  the  strongest  and  most  dramatic  picture  he  has  yet  made  .  .  .  See 
him  in  "Alexander  Hamilton"  to  realize  why  the  legion  of  Arliss'  admirers 
grows  greater  and  greater. 


ALAN  MOWBRAY 
RALF  HAROLD E 
MONTAGU   LOVE 


"1'itn  phone"  is  the  regi  tereti  trademark  af  The   Vitaphone  Corporation 


Haaed  nn  the  ploy  by  George  Axttn 
and  Mary  Hamlin  .  .  .  Adaptation 
ami  dialogue  by  Julian  Jo«»€*phson. 
Directed    by  .  .  -   JOHN    ADULFI 


A  WARNER  BROS.  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


YOU  HAVE 
A  DATE  . . . 


...and  what  a  date!  A  date  with  Janet  Gaynor  and  Charles  Farrell 
and  the  golden  world  of  sweetheart  time... a  date  with  Will  Rogers 
and  the  laughter  that  sweeps  you  free  of  worries  like  a  clean,  strong 
wind.  You  have  a  date  with  a  dazzling  company  of  great  stars,  with 
the  glamorous  magic  of  great  stories  that  will  carry  you  out  of  a 
workaday  world  to  a  land  of  enchantment. 

You  have  a  date  with  Fox  pictures,  a  date  for  night  after  night  of  thrills 
and  tears,  love  and  laughter— the  biggest  date  on  your  calendar  for 
some  of  the  most  marvelous  hours  of  your  life. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


^^NLY  Fox  with  its  matchless  array  of 
^■^  stars,  directors  and  writers  —  only 
the  incredible  creative  and  technical  re- 
sources of  Movietone  City  —  could  fill  so 
many  hours  with  such  superb  delights.  To 
make  sure  you  don't  miss  a  single  one  of 
these  great  Fox  pictures,  ask  your  favor- 
ite theatre  when  they  will  be  shown  —  and 
the  date  is  on! 


Your  favorite  theatre  will  soon  be  showing 

Merely  Mary  Ann,  with  Janet  Gaynor  and  Charles 
Farrell ...  a  supreme  romance  of  young  love  — the 
best  picture  this  famous  team  has  ever  made. 

Wicked,  with  Elissa  Landi  and  Victor  McLaglen  . .. 
a  terrific  drama  of  a  woman  born  to  the  under- 
world and  longing  for  better  things. 

Skyline,  with  Hardie  Albright,  Thomas  Meighan 
and  Maureen  O'Sullivan  . .  .the  way  of  a  man  of 
the  four  hundred  with  a  maid  of  the  four  million. 

She  Wanted  a  Millionaire,  with  Joan  Bennett, 
Spencer  Tracy  and  James  Kirkwood  .  .  .  lavish 
drama  of  a  bathing  beauty  who  got  what  she 
wanted  . . .  ? 

Young  as  You  Feel,  with  Will  Rogers  going  places 
and  doing  things  with  Fifi  Dorsay. 

Bad  Girl... Vina  Delmar's  sensational  novel  pul- 
sates with  life  itself  as  Sally  Eilers  enacts  the  title 
role  with  the  newest  screen   find. lames   Dunn. 

Over  the  Hill,  with  Mae  Marsh  and  James  Kirkwood 
.  . .  epic  of  tears  and  laughter  and  the  hearfs 
deepest  passions. 

Sob   Sister,  with  Linda  Watkins  and  James  Dunn. 

Riders  of  the  Purple  Sage.  Zane  Grey's  great 
story  with  George  O'Brien  and  Virginia  Cherrill. 

The  Yellow  Ticket,  with  Elissa  Landi,  Charles 
Farrell  and  Lionel   Barrymore. 

The  Brat,  with  Sally  O'Neill  and  Frank  Albertson. 


Many  mothers  tell  us  they're  grateful  for  films 

like  "Skippy,"  suitable  for  children  and  enjoyed 

by  adults 


The  $25  Letter 

TN  this  period  of  Depression  (with  a  big  D!)  I  feel  that  the  movies 
■*■  have  been  an  important  factor  in  helping  to  maintain  mental  bal- 
ance.   A  real  estate  man  said  to  me  the  other  day: 

"You  know,  I  was  so  down  in  the  mouth  over  this  slump  in  busi- 
ness that  I  just  couldn't  see  where  it  was  worthwhile  to  struggle 
along.     I  went  home  about  on  the  verge  of  a  collapse. 

"  'Buck  up,'  said  my  wife.  Let's  go  to  see  Marie  Dressier  in 
"Min  and  Bill."  '  We  went.  Say,  I  laughed  until  my  sides  ached,  and 
if  there  is  anything  better  than  a  good  laugh  to  put  heart  back  into  a 
man,  I  don't  know  what  it  is. 

"Next  day  I  started  to  reorganize  my  business,  and  while  it  is  a 
mighty  slow  drag  and  rough  going,  when  things  get  too  black  I  just 
lay  off  and  take  in  a  good  movie.     It  sure  helps  me  to  keep  going." 

Blessed  be  the  movies  for  keeping  our  minds  diverted  until  this 
tipsy  old  world  gets  back  on  its  feet  again. 

C.  E.  Dexter, 
Boulder,  Colo. 


Th< 


Letter 


T  IKE  every  mother,  I  am  faced  with  the  big  problem  of  rearing  and 
*-*  training  my  child  properly.  Fortunately,  I  have  discovered  a 
valuable  ally  in  the  movies.  My  son  is  at  the  impressionable  age 
when  everything  he  sees  or  hears  makes  an  indelible  effect  on  him. 
By  carefully  selecting  the  photoplays  he  sees,  I  am  trying  to  develop 
in  him  standards  of  conduct,  judgment  and  appreciation. 

Already,  he  has  begun  to  notice  personalities  among  the  screen 
stars.  He  admires  the  manliness  of  Gary  Cooper;  he  apes  the  pol- 
ished mannerisms  of  George  Arliss;  he  is  likely  to  burst  into  song 
after  hearing  Lawrence  Tibbett.  And  only  recently  he  told  me  he  is 
going  to  marry  Janet  Gaynor  when  he  grows  up — "she  is  so  nice!" 
I  trust  Miss  Gaynor  doesn't  mind ! 

I  have  become  quite  excited  over  this  experiment  in  child  training. 
It  has  such  infinite  possibilities. 

Mrs.  C.  R„ 
Bedford,  Penna. 

The  $5  Letter 

I  GO  to  the  movies  for  entertainment  only,  and  always  find  it.   What 
more  could  one  ask  for  fifty  cents? 

Alice  M.  Pettyjohn, 
Amherst,  Mass. 


WHEW!  What  a  hit  pictures  like  "The  Million- 
aire," "Skippy,"  "Daddy  Long  Legs,"  and 
"Forbidden  Adventure"  (also  titled  "Newly 
Rich")  have  made!  How  many  movie-goers  have 
found  solace  for  that  down-in-the-dumps  depression 
feeling,  relief  from  gang  wars,  laughter  and  forgotten 
romance  in  this  grand  new  crop  of  pictures. 

Mothers  especially  are  grateful  for  films  that  are 
good  for  their  children  and  fine  for  adults,  too. 

Letters  of  protest  against  the  further  persecution 
of  Roscoe  Arbuckle  continue  to  come.  Clark  ("Free 
Soul")  Gable,  Phillips  ("American  Tragedy")  Holmes 


Brickbats 


Bouquets 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Critics 

PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten  and  Five  Dollar  Prizes  for  the 

Best    Letters 


Come  on  in  and  speak  your  mind!  Don't  write  more 
than  200  words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your 
name  and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't 
write.  Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  PHOTOPLAY, 
221  West  57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the 
right  to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations 


Daddy  Long  Legs 

JUST  a  word  of  sincere  appreciation  from  one  who  is  not  an  habitual 
movie  fan,  because  so  many  pictures  leave  a  "bad  taste."  Our  en- 
tire family  drove  the  thirty  miles  to  Nashville  just  to  see  "Daddy 
Long  Legs"  and  we  enjoyed  every  minute  of  it. 

As  a  stage  play  with  Ruth  Chatterton  and  a  silent  picture  with 
Mary  Pickford,  it  was  fine.  But  as  a  talkie  with  those  two  super- 
lative actors,  Janet  Gaynor  and  Warner  Baxter,  it  was  the  most  en- 
joyable show  I  have  seen  in  many  years.  Janet  Gaynor  is  the  most 
convincing  Judy  Abbott  of  them  all. 

Bertha  Horn, 
Thompson  Station,  Tenn. 

I  was  thrilled  with  anticipation  over  "Daddy  Long  Legs."  The 
winning  Janet  Gaynor  never  disappoints,  yet  I  left  the  theater  with- 
out any  of  the  enthusiasm  that  I  felt  after  seeing  "7th  Heaven," 
"Street  Angel,"  "High  Society  Blues,"  and  other  Gaynor  pictures. 
The  reason  was  this: 

Memory  carried  me  back  to  the  silent  version  of  the  same  story.  It 
was  too  unforgettable.  Even  the  beloved  Janet  was  unwise  to  take  a 
part  that  has  been  played  by  the  incomparable  child-actress,  Mary 
Pickford. 

Marie  S.  Elliott, 

Sayre,  Penna. 
[please  turn  to  page  12] 


and  Lew  ("Iron  Man")  Ayres  are  the  boys  most  ad- 
mired this  month 

The  Clara-Bowites  must  be  fifty  million  strong,  all 
of  them  born  with  fountain  pens  in  their  hands,  ac- 
cording to  our  mail. 

Won't  they  be  tickled  with  Harry  Lang's  first-hand 
account  of  her  retreat  on  Rex  Bell's  ranch,  further  on 
in  this  issue! 

Picture-goers  who  thrill  to  Norma  Shearer  (and 
are  they  plenty!)  are  getting  a  little  fed  up  with  her 
continued  "free  soul"  roles.  They  want  variety — 
and  they  know  Norma  can  give  it  to  them. 


10 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


II 


■ 

Adventure  in  an   oasis  of  missing 

men  and   women 

You  have  always  loved 
Samuel  Goldwyn's  pictures 

•  You  have  ahvays  looked 
forward  to  seeing 

RONALD    COLMAN 

•  You  will  never  forget .  .  . 

"RAFFLES" 
"BULLDOG  DRUMMOND" 

and  now— during  a  time  when  thea- 
tre goers  are  selecting  their  pictures 
as  they  have  never  done  before 

oamuel  (jolawyn  presents 

RONALD  COLMAN 


new,  adventurous  .  .  .  different  pic- 
ture to  thrill  you  who  have  demanded 
more  than  the  ordinary . .  .  the  unusual. 

•  Samuel  Goldwyn  has  once  again 
created  superb  entertainment . . .  swash- 
buckling excitement,  with  Ronald 
Colman  .  .  .  gentleman  adventurer  in 
the  oasis  of  "THE  UNHOLY  GARDEN" 
on  the  edge  of  the  Sahara. 

•  There  you  will  meet  "The  Unholy 
Family"  ...  a  dozen  unforgettable  souls, 
gathered  together  in  this  refuge  .  .  . 
beyond  the  reach  of  the  law  ...  to 
plot   new  murder,  robbery  and  rapine. 


with  FAY  WRAY  and 
ESTELLE    TAYLOR 


A  United  Artists  Picture Story  by  Ben  Hecht  and  Charles  MacArthur 

A         GEORGE         FITZMAUR1CE         PRODUCTION 


"  'Min  and  Bill'  made  me  laugh  until  my  sides  ached.    Is 

there  anything  better  than  a  good  laugh  to  put  heart 

back  into  a  man"  one  man  writes  us 


"Unless  we   repudiate   our  ideas   of  American 

justice,  Arbuckle  should  be  permitted  to  work 

like  the  rest  of  us,"  a  reader  urges 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  10  ] 

Instead  of  casting  Warner  Baxter  in  "Daddy 
Long  Legs,"  why  didn't  they  give  him  some- 
thing really  exciting  to  do — say,  play  a  game 
of  tiddle-dy-winks,  or  hand  him  an  "Elsie" 
book  to  read?  What  I  can't  get  over  is  the 
fact  that  that  sappy  story  thrilled  me  when 
Mary  Pickford  played  it.  Janet  Gaynor  was 
sweet  and  charming,  but  "tempus  fugit"  and 
the  modern  tempo  moves  at  such  a  pace  that 
"Daddy  Long  Legs"  today  is  about  as  excit- 
ing as  a  Congressman's  speech! 

Margaret  Bronson, 

Cincinnati,  Ohio 


Our  local  Sunday  School  classes  have  all 
been  attending  "Daddy  Long  Legs"  in  groups. 
It's  a  lovely  picture. 

Helen  Geschine, 
Garfield,  N.  J. 

Here's  a  Gaynor  and  Farrell  fan  broadcast- 
ing! Why  don't  those  two  wake  up  and  realize 
that  the  one  cannot  do  without  the  other  in 
pictures.  They  are  both  like  fish  out  of  water 
when  they  play  with  someone  else.  Why  not 
give  their  public  what  it  wants,  and  forget 
gossip? 

M.  E.  Speter, 
Cleveland,  Ohio 

Janet  Gaynor  proves  in  "Daddy  Long  Legs" 
that  she  can  make  real  hits  without  Charles 
Farrell. 

Marvin  McKinnon, 

Tallahassee,  Fla. 

A  Free  Soul 

Chalk  up  another  big  hit  for  Norma  Shearer 
in  "A  Free  Soul."  A  great  picture  and  a  great 
cast.  Lionel  Barrymore,  true  to  Barrymore 
tradition,  was  the  living,  breathing  Stephen 
Ashe.    Norma  Shearer,  as  Jan,  was  superb,  as 


Gay,' 
Kiss,' 


she  is  in  everything  she  does. 
But  the  trouble  is,  she  usually 
does  the  one  thing.  She  flutters 
gayly  through  her  many  suc- 
cesses (attired  in  the  newest 
frocks),  playing  one  free  soul 
after  the  other.  "Let  Us  Be 
•'The  Divorcee,"  "Strangers  May 
and  finally  "A  Free  Soul." 
Believe  it  or  not,  but  Norma  is  getting  a 
little  bit  too  gay.  We  are  a  bit  fed  up  on  a 
steady  diet  of  her  indiscretions. 

Mrs.  Joe  Miller, 
Charlotte,  N.  C. 

Lionel  Barrymore  stole  "A  Free  Soul"  from 
the  adorable  Norma  Shearer  in  such  a  clever 
manner  that  I  did  not  realize  I  was  watching 
a  picture  with  my  favorite  actress  in  the  lead- 
ing role!    He  was  magnificent. 

Flora  Pipes, 
Texarkana,  Texas 


Lionel  Barrymore  was  great,  but  the  role 
of  Stephen  A  she  was  actor-proof.  But  it  needed 
all  the  skill  Norma  Shearer  could  give  to  her 
interpretation  to  make  Jan  Ashc'seem  a  sym- 
pathetic and  logical  character,  instead  of  a 
giddy  wanton. 

Hats  off  to  the  finest  actress  on  the  screen, 
say  I. 

Jane  Ellen  Thompson, 

Chicago,  Illinois 


Jean  Harlow 

I  was  much  aroused  by  a  comment  in  the 
July  Brickbats  pertaining  to  Jean  Harlow's 
scant  attire.  Certainly  her  clothes  were  never 
as  risque  as  Dietrich's  in  "Morocco,"  nor  her 
pictures  as  sophisticated  as  Norma  Shearer's. 
Yet  they  both  are  screen  idols.  Miss  Harlow's 
accent  is  superb  for  the  roles  she  plays,  her 
voice  gorgeous,  and  her  clothes  fashionable  and 
stunning. 

Charles  P.  Carroll,  Jr., 
Kansas  City,  Mo. 


Pictures  for  Children 

Entirely   too   much   is   written   about    the 
movies  being  unfit  for  children  to  see.    This  is 


hardly  fair.  Sophisticated  and  mature  sub- 
jects, no  matter  how  carefully  treated,  are 
obviously  not  intended  for  children  and  it  is 
ridiculous  to  advocate  toning  them  down  to 
the  level  of  what  some  parents  consider  whole- 
some for  their  children. 

There  are  plenty  of  clean,  juvenile  films,  par- 
ticularly comedies,  Western  pictures,  scenics, 
Mickey  Mouse  and  other  cartoons,  and  parents 
who  are  really  interested  in  guarding  their 
children's  morals  will  find  a  safe  field  in  these. 

Of  course,  the  baby  shouldn't  smoke  daddy's 
cigars  or  use  mother's  lipstick,  and,  of  course, 
children  shouldn't  see  films  intended  for 
adults. 

Now,  please  don't  get  me  wrong.  I  happen 
to  have  five  children  of  my  own. 

Blanche  Bennett, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

Why  blame  producers  for  keeping  children 
from  the  movies?  They  give  us  pictures  of 
life  as  it  is  today.  They  do  not  glorify  crime 
and  illicit  love.  Why  can't  we,  the  mothers, 
take  the  trouble  to  explain  the  right  and  wrong 
angles  to  our  children,  and  in  their  growing 
years  influence  them  to  see  the  right  side  of 
all  situations? 

Children  don't  have  to  go  to  movies  to  learn 
undesirable  things.  The  world  is  full  of  such 
object  lessons.  Let's  overcome  our  false  mod- 
esty and  use  the  movies  for  what  they  are — a 
great  teacher. 

Mrs.  H.  R.  Berkshire, 

Logansport,  Ind. 

Might  I  suggest  that  the  present  attempt  of 
Hollywood  producers  to  write  plays  that  merit 
the  attention  of  the  intelligentsia  and  the  smart, 
sophisticated  sets  of  the  country  is  doing  a 
great  deal  to  cut  box-office  proceeds?  Mothers 
everywhere  are  cutting  down  on  the  attendance 
of  their  children  at  the  present  sordid  "dramas 
of  life." 

Where  is  the  mother  who  would  willingly  ex- 
pose her  teens-age  son  or  daughter  to  the  de- 
moralizing suggestiveness  of  the  present  "free 
love"  and  gangster  films? 

Are  producers  going  to  continue  to  educate 
child  audiences  to  the  movie  habit,  or  are  you 
going  to  lose  this  future  audience  in  your 
present  effort  to  be  modern  and  smart? 

Mrs.  A.  Earle  Fairchild, 
Summit,  N.  J. 


Good  pictures  bringing  them  back 


"Give    us    more    pictures    like    'The    Millionaire'    and 

'Skippy,'  "  writes  a  girl  of  sixteen,  "and  watch  the  young 

folks,  especially  girls  like  me,  attend  more  pictures" 


Clark  Gable 

After  having  seen  Clark  Gable  in  "The  Se- 
cret Six,"  it  was  certainly  a  surprise  to  see  him 
do  such  line  work  as  a  Salvation  Army  worker 
in  "Laughing  Sinners,"  a  totally  different  type 
of  role.  I  think  he  is  a  grand  actor  and  would 
like  to  see  him  in  a  new  version  of  "The  Sheik." 
Beth  Thompson 
Dallas,  Texas 

Clark  Gable  may  be  a  knockout  as  a  gang- 
ster, but  it  stops  right  there.  Mr.  Gable  was 
not  at  all  suited  for  his  part  as  a  Salvation 
Army  worker  in  "Laughing  Sinners." 

Mary  Kay  Folk, 
Tamaqua,  Penna. 

Tonic 

I  was  blue  and  depressed  when  I  arrived 
home  tonight  after  a  day  of  nothing  but  set- 
backs, and  even  a  good  dinner  failed  to  restore 
my  spirits.  After  dinner  I  went  for  a  stroll 
and  through  force  of  habit  turned  my  foot- 
steps in  the  direction  of  our  neighborhood 
theater.  On  the  marquee  were  the  words: 
"Skippy — A  Tonic  for  Young  and  Old."  A 
tonic?    That  was  what  I  needed. 

I  never  enjoyed  a  movie  more,  and  I  came 
out  of  that  theater  tonight  with  a  heart  that 
was  lighter  than  it  has  been  for  weeks. 

And  so  home  and  to  bed,  but  not  until  I  had 
written  this  note  of  appreciation  for  a  grand 
picture,  a  splendid  cast,  and  the  medium  which 
brought  it  to  me — the  talking  screen. 

Timothy  McIxerney, 

New  York  City 

Arbuckle 

Every  American  who  hopes  for  the  protec- 
tion of  the  law  in  time  of  trouble  owes  Photo- 
play a  vote  of  thanks  for  its  assertion  that  the 
so-called  Arbuckle  question  has  ceased  to  be 
just  a  case  of  giving  a  much-maligned  man 
another  chance,  and  has  become  a  question  of 
whether  we  are  going  to  be  ruled  by  the  will  of 
the  people  or  by  the  reformers. 

The  Canon  Chases,  the  clubwomen  and  such, 
are  trying  to  cast  aside  the  findings  of  the  law 
and  force  upon  us  as  a  substitute  their  own 
intolerance  and  prejudice. 

Elizabeth  Kapitz. 
Bennington,  \"t. 


Unless  we  repudiate  and  set 
aside   our   ideas   of   American 
justice,  Mr.  Arbuckle  should  be 
permitted  to  work  like  the  rest 
of  us,  be  we  sinners  or  saints. 
Three  juries  said  he  was  not 
guilty,  and  in  this  country  one 
is    presumed    innocent    of    any    charge    until 
proved  guilty.     The  women's  clubs  make  a 
loud  noise,  and  we  assume  it  is  public  opinion. 
Clyde  W.  Ennis, 
Birmingham,  Ala. 


The  Blues 


"I  should  love  to  see  'Dear  Enemy,'  sequel  to 

'Daddy    Long    Legs,'    with   Janet    Gaynor    and 

Warner  Baxter,"  suggests  one  writer 


Random  Opinions 

If  Bob  Montgomery  plays  in  pictures  oppo- 
site Garbo  any  more,  it  will  be  too  bad  for  Bob, 
because  she  spoiled  his  picture,  "Inspiration." 
Eleanor  Schilling, 
Pittsburgh,  Penna. 


I  was  as  blue  as  indigo,  borrowed  fifty  cents, 
went  to  a  picture  show  and  saw  Bill  Bo\Td  in 
"Beyond  Victory."  After  sitting  through  one 
hour  of  constant  shooting,  bombing  and  other 
noises,  I  came  out  of  the  show  feeling  as  though 
the  devil  had  the  world  by  the  tail.  Frankly,  I 
wasn't  made  one  bit  happy — and  aren't  we 
all  tired  of  war  pictures,  anyhow? 

Doris  Throckmorton, 
Albuquerque,  N.  Mex. 


Look  In  This  Issue,  Charles 

The  foreign  invasion  of  our  screen  hasn't 
interested  me  much  until  Elissa  Landi  came 
along.  She  has  personality  plus.  But  why 
don't  you  publish  a  few  pictures  of  her  or  give 
her  a  little  space? 

("ii  \rles  Roe, 
Oskaloosa,  Iowa 


Censorship 

The  censorship  of  talkies  in  the  State  of 
Pennsylvania  has  reached  a  point  where  some- 
thing should  be  done  about  it.  A  certain  de- 
gree of  censorship  may  be  necessary,  due  to 
the  presence  of  children  in  the  audiences,  but 
surely  not  this  ridiculous,  puritanical — yes. 
fanatical — butchering  which  pictures  must  take 
at  the  hands  of  the  censors  in  this  stale. 

Who  is  this  board  to  tell  me,  a  normally  in- 
telligent woman  who  takes  her  movies  se- 
riously, what  is  and  is  not  proper  for  me? 

Dorothy  F.  Zi  it, 
Washington,  Penna. 


Greta  Garbo  is  the  greatest  actress  since 
Bernhardt. 

Rcth  Ellen  Sherman. 

Hart,  Mich. 

Miss  Dietrich  is  beautiful  at  times  but  has 
nothing  compared  to  Garbo. 

Mary  F.  Hood, 
Grand  Prairie,  Texas 

Please  print  more   about   the  handsomest 
male  blond  in  pictures — Phillips  Holmes. 
Berkeley  Kent, 
San  Antonio,  Texas 


When  John  Boles  sings  in  his  pictures,  they 
have  double  charm. 

Florence  Batj  s, 

Chicago.  111. 

1  have  searched  the  "flower  column"  for 
Mime  bouquet  addressed  to  Victor  Yarconi.  He 
was  so  splendid  in  "Doctors'  Wives."  Give  us 
more  of  those  twinkling  brown  eyes  and  that 
bewitching  accent. 

Dee  Bi  SHNE]  l. 
Xew  Haven.  Conn. 


What  this  old  world  needs  is  more  pictures 
with  Claudette  Colbert  and  1'redric  March. 
Pictures  of  the  kind  you  will  be  willing  to  see 
seven  times  a  week,  like  "Manslaughter"  and 
"Honor  Among  Lovers." 

Mi>s  F.  B.  K\tkin, 

New  York  City 
I  please  tcrn  to  page  109  ] 


They're  curing  depression  blues: 


i 


/.? 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  6 


FINN  AND  HATTIE— Paramount.— One  long 
howl.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Haddock's  trip  abroad  ruined  by 
a  fiendish  nephew  and  a  daughter,  played  well  by 
Jackie  Searl  and  Mitzi  Green.     (April) 

FIVE  AND  TEN—  M-G-M.—  Marion  Davies 
with  a  splendid  cast.  Adapted  from  the  Fannie 
Hurst  story — jerky  in  spots.     (Aug.) 

FLOOD,  THE— Columbia.— A  weak,  poorly 
directed  story  which  the  good  acting  of  Eleanor 
Boardman  and  Monte  Blue  cannot  save.     (July) 

•  FORBIDDEN  ADVENTURE— (Also  re- 
leased as  Newly  Rich) — Paramount. — An 
entertaining  picture  for  kids  and  grown-ups.  Jackie 
Searl  and  Mitzi  Green  in  some  swell  acting.  Don't 
miss  it.     (Aug.) 

•  FREE  SOUL,  A— M-G-M.— Norma  Shearer 
and  Lionel  Barrymore  in  a  picture  that  will 
hold  you,  but  in  plot  and  treatment  it's  for  grown-ups 
only.     (July) 

•  FRONT  PAGE,  THE— United  Artists- 
Whirlwind  newspaper  talkie,  full  of  thrills, 
laughs  and  sobs.  You've  simply  got  to  see  it.  Adolphe 
Menjou  great  as  the  managing  editor.     (May) 

•  GANG  BUSTER,  THE  —  Paramount.  — 
Comedy-melodrama  with  Jack  Oakie  at  his 
best.  William  (stage)  Boyd  menaces  as  the  gang 
leader  and  Jean  Arthur  is  the  pretty  heroine.    (March) 

•  GENTLEMAN'S  FATE  —  M-G-M.  —  This 
tense  drama  brings  us  Jack  Gilbert  with  all 
his  old  appeal.  The  beautiful  Leila  Hyams  and  Anita 
Page  support  him  and  Louis  Wolheim  gives  a 
flawless    performance.     (March) 

GIRL     FROM     THE     REEPERBAHN,     THE 

(DAS  MAEDEL  VON  DER  REEPERBAHN)— Sonor 

Prod. — The  Germans  crash  through  with  a  good 
one.  Grim  melodrama  with  plenty  of  action  and 
some  good  songs.     (April) 

•     GIRL   HABIT,   THE— Paramount— An   up- 
roarious farce  that  boosts  Charles  Ruggles  to 
stardom.    It's  all  laughs.     See  it  I     (Aug.) 

GIRLS  DEMAND  EXCITEMENT— Fox.— Mar- 
guerite Churchill,  John  Wayne,  Virginia  Cherrill  and 
William  Janney  are  a  fine  cast  wasted  in  a  story  that 
never  rings  true.     (April) 

GOD'S  GIFT  TO  WOMEN— Warners.— Frank 
Fay  is  the  gift — Laura  La  Plante  the  receiver,  but 
after  many  hilarious  complications.  Well  worth  see- 
ing.    (May) 

GOLD  DUST  GERTIE— Warners.— Exuberant 
Winnie  Lightner  gambols  through  a  poor  story.  (July) 

GOLDIE — Fox. — If  you  like  lusty,  gusty  stuff, 
this'll  do.  Spencer  Tracy  and  Warren  Hymer  make 
a  new  comedy  team.     (Aug.) 

GOOD  BAD  GIRL,  THE— Columbia.— The  old 
plot  of  the  girl  who  leaves  the  racket  to  marry  and  go 
straight.     (July) 


GUN  SMOKE— Paramount.— Great  for  the  kids, 
this  old-time  Western  melodrama,  with  Dick  Arlen  as 
a  cowboy,  Mary  Brian,  the  girl,  and  William  Boyd, 
the  menace.     (May) 

HELL  BOUND— Cruze-Tiffany  Prod.— Good  gang 
story  if  you're  not  tired  of  them.  Leo  Carrillo  plays 
the  broken-Englished  speakeasy  operator  and  Lola 
Lane  is  completely  charming.     (April) 

HELL'S  VALLEY— National  Players,  Ltd.— Very 
little  story,  if  any,  but  lots  of  riding  and  shooting  in 
this  Western,  with  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  Wally  Wales 
and  Vivian  Rich  sharing  the  acting  honors.     (June) 

HIGH  STAKES— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  an  amateur  detective  is  the  main  reason  for 
seeing  this.  Mae  Murray  is  the  woman  in  the  case. 
(July) 

HOLE  IN   THE  WALL,    THE   (Nar    Rosorna 

Sla  Ut)  —  Paramount.  —  Swedish  talkie  brings  us 
Sven  Gustafsson,  Garbo's  brother,  but  nothing  like 
his  famous  sister.  Light  and  chatty  love  story. 
(April) 

HOLY  TERROR,  A— Fox— A  two-fisted  West- 
ern with  George  O'Brien.  Good,  wholesome  enter- 
tainment.   (Aug.) 

HONOR  AMONG  LOVERS— Paramount.— 
Good  dialogue  in  this  story  of  love  between  boss  and 
secretary,  with  excellent  performances  by  Fredric 
March,  Claudette  Colbert  and  that  Ace  of  Cads, 
Monroe  Owsley.     (May) 

HOW  HE  LIED  TO  HER  HUSBAND— British 

International. — George  Bernard  Shaw  surrenders  to 
the  talkies.  Amusing,  if  you  like  the  Shaw  wit. 
(March) 

HUSH  MONEY— Fox.— Another  gangster  film 
and  not  a  very  thrilling  one.  Joan  Bennett  and 
Hardie  Albright  try  hard.     (Aug.) 

INDISCREET  —  United  Artists. "—  Good,  enter- 
taining story.  Gloria  Swanson  sings  well.  Ben  Lyon 
and  Arthur  Lake  great  support.     (June) 

IRON  MAN — Universal. — Lew  Ayres  is  starred  as 
the  prize-fighter  but  Bob  Armstrong,  in  the  role  of 
manager,  steals  the  picture.  Jean  Harlow  plays  her 
usual  vamp  role.     (June) 

IT  PAYS  TO  ADVERTISE— Paramount.— The 
old  stage  play  revamped  for  the  talkies  with  plenty 
of  speed  and  lots  of  laughs.  Skeets  Gallagher,  Nor- 
man Foster  and  Carole  Lombard  head  a  perfect  cast. 
(April) 

I  TAKE  THIS  WOMAN— Paramount.— A 
wheezy  old  plot  dressed  up  for  Gary  Cooper  and 
Carole  Lombard.     Just  another  movie.     (Aug.) 

•  IT'S  A  WISE  CHILD— M-G-M— Marion 
Davies'  rare  gift  for  comedy  and  Robert 
Leonard's  direction  make  this  old  stage  play  a  brand 
new  hilarious  farce  not  to  be  missed.    (May) 

JAWS  OF  HELL— Sono  Art— World  Wide.— De- 
picts the  old  poem  "The  Charge  of  the  Light  Brigade" 
and  makes  the  charge  a  pretty  thrilling  business.  The 
romantic  story's  a  bit  weak.     (March) 


JUNE  MOON— Paramount.^=You'll  like  this  one. 
Ring  Lardner  wrote  the  wisecracking  lines  and  Jack 
Oakie  puts  them  over  with  a  bang.     (April)' 

JUST  A  GIGOLO— M-G-M.— William  Haines  in 
a  spicy,  amusing  offering.  But  leave  the  children  at 
home.     (July) 

KEPT  HUSBANDS— Radio  Pictures.— Lively  en- 
tertainment. Dorothy  Mackaill  and  Joel  McCrea  an 
attractive  pair  and  the  still  beautiful  Clara  Kimball 
Young  returns  to  us.     (April) 

KICK  IN — Paramount. — They  tried  hard  to  make 
Clara  Bow  dramatic,  sympathetic  and  emotional  in 
this  one.     Regis  Toomey  is  great.     (July) 

*KIKI — United  Artists. — Presenting  a  new 
Mary  Pickford,  saucy  and  sophisticated  in  a 
grand  comedy.  You  can  safely  take  the  kids.  Regi- 
nald Denny  is  the  lead.     (April) 

LADIES'  MAN— Paramount.— William  Powell  as 
a  sympathetic  and  attractive  gigolo,  charms  Olive 
Tell,  Carole  Lombard  and  Kay  Francis.  Entertain- 
ing picture.   (June) 

LADY  REFUSES,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— If  you 
want  a  good  cry,  here's  your  chance.  Rather  an  oUJ. 
story,  but  Betty  Compson,  Gilbert  Emery  and  Johri 
Darrow  make  it  realistic.     (April) 

LAST  PARADE,  THE— Columbia.—  Another 
gangster  picture  and  good  too,  with  thrills,  suspense, 
romance  and  laughs.  Jack  Holt  and  Tom  Moore  are 
rivals  for  Constance  Cummings'  favor.  Jack  wins.' 
(May) 

LAUGH  AND  GET  RICH— Radio  Pictures- 
Misadventures  of  a  boarding  house  mistress,  played 
by  Edna  May  Oliver,  and  her  chronically  tired  hubby, 
Hugh  Herbert.    Good  for  plenty  of  laughs.    (May) 

LAUGHING  SINNERS— M-G-M.— Not  so  good, 
but  if  you  are  a  Joan  Crawford  fan  you  may  like  it. 
Clark  Gable  and  Neil  Hamilton,  too.     (Aug.) 

LAWLESS  WOMAN,  THE— Chesterfield  Pic-, 
tures. — An  '  uninteresting,  unimportant  film.  A 
gangster-newspaper  plot,  poorly  done.  (Aug.) 

•  LAWYER'S  SECRET,  THE— Paramount.— 
Clive  Brook,  Charles  Rogers,  Richard  Arlen, 
Fay  Wray  and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  performances. 
Intense  drama.     (July) 

*LE   MILLION— Tobis   Production.— It's  not 
necessary  to  understand  the  language  to  get 
all  the  fun  out  of  this  French  musical  farce.     (Aug.) 

LIGHTNING  FLYER,  THE— Columbia.— Jimmy 
Hall  as  the  wild  young  son,  who  makes  good  and  wins 
the  love  of  a  good  woman — Dorothy  Sebastian.  Not 
so  good;  then  again,  not  so  bad.    (May) 

LITTLE  CAFE,  THE  (Le  Petit  Cafe)— Para- 
mount.— Chevalier's  French  version  of  "Playboy  of 
Paris"  and  simply  great.  Gay  and  charming  with 
more  songs  added  and  his  wife,  Yvonne  Vallee. 
(A  pril) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  124  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Mti^e  this  your  reference  list. 


Page 
Alias,  The  Bad  Man— Tiffany  Prod.  100 

Bad  Girl— Fox 58 

Black  Camel,  The— Fox 59 

Bought — Warners 57 

Brat,  The— Fox 98 

Caught — Paramount 98 

East  of  Borneo — Universal 98 

Enemies  of  the  Law — Regal  Prod.  .  .    98 
Fighting  Sheriff,  The — Columbia..  .  .   98 

First  Aid— Sono  Art J". ...  100 

Five  Star  Final — First  National ....    56 
Full  of  Notions — Radio  Pictures.  ...    59 

Great  Lover,  The— M-G-M 59 

Guilty  Hands— M-G-M 58 

Honevmoon  Lane — Sono  Art 59 


Page 
I  Like  Your  Nerve — First  National .  98 
Lasca  of  the  Rio  Grande — Universal .    99 

Lullaby,  The— M-G-M 59 

Magnificent  Lie,  The — Paramount .  .   98 
Men  of  the  Sky— First  National ....  100 

Merely  Mary  Ann — Fox 57 

Merry  Wives  of  Vienna,  The — Super 


Paramount. 
Classic 


Film 
Murder  by  the  Clock- 
Mystery  of  Life,  The — 

Politics— M-G-M 

Public    Defender,    The 

tures 

Salvation  Nell — Tiffany-Cruze 
Secret  Call,  The — Paramount. 


Radio    Pic- 


.   98 

.   98 
.100 

57 

59 
98 
58 


Page 

Secrets  of  a  Secretary — Paramount. .    56 
Sherlock  Holmes'  Fatal  Hour — War- 
ners-First Division 99 

Side  Show — Warners 98 

Skin    Game,    The — British    Interna- 
tional     98 

Sporting  Blood— M-G-M 98 

Star  Witness,  The — First  National.  .    58 
Susan  Lenox,  Her  Fall  and  Rise  — 

M-G-M.. 56 

Transatlantic — Fox 58 

Waterloo  Bridge — Universal 58 

Wild  Horse— Allied 98 

Women  Go  On  Forever  —  Tiffany- 
Cruze ,,s...   99 

Women  Men  Marrj — deadline  Prod.  99 


u 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


TAKE  A  LION  WITH  YOU 
ON  YOUR  VACATION! 


WANT  to  make  sure  of  a  roaring  good  time 
this  summer?  Looking  for  thrills,  adventure, 
romance,  fun?  Remember  Leo,  the  M-G'M  lion! 
Look  him  up  wherever  you  may  be — at  seashore  or 
camp,  at  home  or  abroad — you're  seldom  more  than 
a  few  miles  away  from  a  theatre  where  the  world's 
greatest  motion  pictures  are  being  shown!  Drop  in 
to  see  Leo.  He'll  be  delighted  to  introduce  you  to 
the  greatest  stars  on  the  screen  today — acting  for 
you  in  pictures  that  represent  the  world's  best 
entertainment. 

More  stars  than  there  are  in  heaven 


A  Few  M  G-M  Hits 
Coming  Soon! 

Joan  CRAWFORD 

in  "This  Modern  Age" 

Greta  GARBO 

in  "Susan  Lenox,  Her  Fall 
and  Rise" 

John  GILBERT 

in  "Cheri  Bibi" 

Buster  KEATON 

in  "The  Sidewalks  of  Ncu»  York" 

Marie  DRESSLER 

and  Polly  MORAN  in  "Politics" 

the  funniest  picture  you  ever  saw 

and  many,  many  others  ! 


ETRO-GOLD  W  Y 


New 
Make-Up 
Theory 


Had  you  thought  of  your  lipstick 
clashing  with  the  color  of  your 
dress?  It  can  decidedly,  so  it  is 
wise  to  guide  your  color  choice 
by  your  costume.  Mary  Brian 
puts  hers  on  expertly 


IT'S  a  long  jump  from  the  day  when  a  dusting  of  rice  powder 
constituted  make-up  to  today  with  the  complicated  and 
varied  methods  of  gilding  the  modern  lily!  The  very 
newest  twist  to  the  make-up  question  is  the  new  inter- 
relating of  make-up  and  costume  colors.  No  longer  can  you 
flatly  state  that  you  can't  wear  a  certain  shade  of  green.  In- 
stead, you  pick  the  supposedly  unbecoming  shade  and  proceed 
to  work  a  miracle  with  your  face — you  make  yourself  over  to 
off-set  the  green! 

When  all  the  hub-bub  started  about  the  brilliant  Algerian 
costume  shades  and  we  all  threw  off  our  black  weeds  of  several 
seasons  for  the  giddiness  of  colors — the  cosmeticians  realized 
that  something  had  to  be  done  about  it.  What  were  the  pink 
skinned  girls  going  to  do  about  the  hard,  native  reds?  And 
what  were  the  sallow  skinned  damsels  going  to  do  with  the 
yellows  and  blues?  Change  their  make-up  was  the  brilliant 
thought.    And  changed  it  has  been. 

Your  first  reaction  to  some  of  the  powder  shades  will  be  to 
say  that  they  are  ridiculous.  Green,  lavender,  yellow  powders, 
they  sound  quite  mad  for  anyone's  face.  They  make  one  think 
of  clowns  and  carnivals.  Yet  when  skillfully  blended  with 
another  powder  and  applied  with  the  right  rouge  and  lipstick 
tuned  to  the  costume  color — a  miracle  is  wrought! 

NOWHERE  is  make-up  rated  more  importantly  than  it  is  on 
stage  or  screen.  Many  a  raving  beauty  has  wilted  undei 
the  camera's  sharp  eye,  all  because  the  make-up  was  wrong. 
And  many  times  I  have  met  a  glamorous  star  offstage  who  was 
unbelievably  plain.  I  think  if  more  girls  realized  the  flattering 
things  that  make-up  can  do  to  their  whole  appearance,  they 
would  spend  a  little  more  time  learning  how  to  apply  it. 

To  return  to  the  costume  color  situation.  I  have  jotted  down 
a  few  notes  on  make-up  for  certain  colors  which  I  have  picked 
up  from  several  of  the  leading  beauty  authorities  who  are 
seriously  advocating  this  idea.  I  think  it  will  help  some  of  you 
with  the  rather  difficult  selection  of  proper  costume  shades. 

Browns  are  going  to  be  very  important  for  Fall.    The  average 

16 


person  would  class  brown  as  a  generally  becoming  shade,  yet  it 
dulls  the  natural  coloring.  If  you  find  that  it  makes  you  a 
"brown  study ,"  try  a  little  lighter  face  powder  than  you  ordinarily 
use.  Apply  your  rouge  a  little  heavier  than  usual  and  make 
your  mouth  a  vivid  spot  on  your  face.  The  lipstick  can  safely 
take  a  slightly  orange  tinge. 

Those  blues  that  we  all  love  are  not  the  most  flattering  colors 
always.  Most  blues,  except  when  worn  by  very  fair  people, 
tend  to  darken  the  complexion  hue.  As  with  browns,  you  will 
have  to  try  a  lighter  powder,  a  little  brighter  rouge  and  vivid 
lipstick.  In  the  lipstick,  however,  use  a  rosy  tint  rather  than 
an  orange  one. 

And  are  you  agog  to  know  when  to  use  lavender  powder?  In 
the  evening  when  you  perhaps  wear  a  yellow  that  brings  out  all 
the  yellow  tones  of  the  skin,  dust  [  please  turn  to  page  120  ] 


Friendly  Advice  on 

Girls'  Problems 

ARE  you  puzzled  about  your  make-up,  the 
correct  colors  for  your  type?  Have  you  an 
aggravating  hair  problem?  I'll  be  glad  to  mail  you 
a  personal  letter  of  advice  if  you  will  tell  me  your 
specific  problem. 

If  you  want  to  be  slimmer  or  improve  your  com- 
plexion, send  a  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope 
for  my  booklet  of  normalizing  exercises  and  re- 
ducing menus.  Also  for  my  complexion  leaflet, 
giving  general  advice  on  the  care  of  the  skin  and 
specific  treatment  for  blackheads  and  acne.  You 
may  have  them  both,  simply  by  asking  for  them. 

Address  me  at  PHOTOPLAY,  221  West  57th 
Street,  New  York  City.    Don't  forget  the  envelope! 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


>7 


Any  Girl  Can  Work  a  Miracle  of  Beauty  with 

Wollywood's 

MAKE-UP 
SECRET 

Would  Ton  Like  to  Be  More         T^ 
Beautiful  than  you  Really  Are? 

Max  Factor,  Hollywood's  Make-Up  King, 
Reveals  the  Secret,  and  Offers  a   Priceless 


Beauty  Gift!  See  Coupon. 
Hollywood  holds  a 

make-up  secret  ...  a  new  discovery  in  cos- 
metics which  means  new  beauty,  new  charm 
and  fascination  to  you  and  every  woman. 
This  secret  is  a  new  kind  of  make-up,  based 
on  cosmetic  color  harmony,  the  discovery  of 
Max  Factor,  Filmland's  genius  of  make-up. 

Powder,  rouge,  lipstick  and  other  make- 
up essentials,  of  course  .  .  but  so  different 
in  the  effect  they  produce  that  even  the  stars 
whose  rare  beauty  is  adored  by  millions 
have  called  this  make-up  by  Max  Factor, 
"beauty-magic." 

"Cosmetics  must  be  in  color  harmony, 
if  beauty  is  to  be  emphasized  naturally," 
says  Max  Factor  "Off-colors  ruin  the  life- 
like effect  and  detract  from  beauty.  The 
different  types  in  blondes,  brunettes  and  red- 
heads must  have  an  individual  color  harmony 
in  make-up  to  bring  out  personality  as  well 
as  alluring  beauty  " 

Scores  and  scores  of  feature  pictures  . 
millions  of  feet  of  film  .  .  .  have  revealed  to 
you  the  magic  of  make-up  by  Max  Factor. 
Leading  stars  . . .  Evelyn  Brent,  Lupe  Velez, 
Joan  Crawford,  Renee  Adoree  and  scores  of 

others  have  given  you  a  glimpse  of  the  faultless  beauty  to  be  gained  with 
make-up  in  correct  color  harmony. 

And  now  Max  Factor  has  produced  a  make-up  for  day  and  evening  use, 
based  on  his  famous  discovery,  cosmetic  color  harmony.  Adopted  almost 
universally  by  leading  screen  stars,  Max  Factor's  Society  Make-Up  caused  a 
sensation  in  Hollywood  .  .     and  it  will  be  a  beauty  revelation  to  you. 

Learn  Hollywood's  make-up  secret.  Mail  coupon  now  to  Max  Factor, 
who  will  analyze  your  complexion  and  chart  your  own  make-up  color  har- 
mony .  .  .  FREE.  You  also  receive  his  book,  "The  New  Art  of  Society 
Make-Up" — 48  pages  of  valuable  beauty  and  make-up  hints. 

MAX  FACTOR'S  Society  MAKE-UP 

"Cosmetics  of  the  Stars".  ..  HOLLYWOOD 

96%  of  all  make-up  including  Technicolor  used  by  Hollywood  Screen  Stars  and  Studios  is  M.ix  Fictor's. 

(Let  Angeles  Clumber  of  Ctamtrti  Statistics)  ©  1$jQ  Max  Faetir 


ELYN  BRLNT, 
says:"  Congratulations! 
Straight  from  the 
shoulder  ,  .  .  to  Max 
Factor  and  his  Society 
Make-Up." 


This  Amazing  Book 

FREE  . .  .with  your 

Make-Up     Color 

Harmony  Chart 

Realize  at  last  that  you  can  be 
more  beautiful  than  you  really  are 
if  you  know  the  art  of  make-up 
as  practiced  by  the  screen  stars. 
Permit  Max  Factor  to  suggest  an 
alluring  color  harmony  in  make- 
up... powder,  rouge,  lipstick  and 
other  essentials  .  just  lor  you. 
Mail  coupon 
now— today! 


LUPE  VELEZ,  Universal  Star  and 
Max  Factor,  Hollywood' s  Make-Up  Genius. 

LUPE  VELEZ,  sayf:"Oh!  It  is  wonderful,  Mr. 
Max  Factor.  The  color  harmony  in  the  Society    ~ 
Make-Up  which  you  created  for  me  is  exquisite,  --jp 

sonaTy'perf/ctfy'     ^J^J^sQSLiLy^ 

I     EWl~fW^yoV^wmpTe1cioi^Tn^lysis~ 

I  Mr   Max  Factor — Max  Factor  Studios,  Hollywood,  Calif.  1-9-35 

I  Dear  Sir:  Send  mc  a  complimentary  copy  of  your  48-page  book,  "The  !\\  -u  Art 
|  of  Society  Mate-Up",  personal  complexion  analysis  and  makeup  color  harmony 
|  chart.  I  enclose  10c  (coin  or  stamps) 
|  to  cover  cost  of  postage  and  handling. 


Name  . 


j  Addict 
\CUy_ 
[Stale- 


•  ,  ■■  ■      ,.;■■•. 

COLOR  EYES 

Mow 

Fin 

COLOR  LASHIS 

Medium 

SKIN 

k„dJ, 

COLOR  HAIR 

o\ 

Datt 

Dry 

Salic 

ACE      | 

Normal 

ow 

Ann  oilh  ChecV  Mark 

i8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


J^he  needed  someone 
to  tell  her  why  the  women  in 
her  little  town  no  longer  asked 
her  to  their  weekly  bridge  par- 
ties, or  to  accompany  them  to 
the  matinee.  She  needed  some- 
one to  explain  to  her  why  men 
seldom  called  more  than  once, 
and  why  she  found  herself  out 
of.  the  pleasant  social  activities 
that  meant  so  much  to  her. 
In  short,  she  needed  to  be  told 
the  truth  about  herself.  Un- 
fortunately, the  truth  in  this 
case  was  not  a  matter  anyone 
cared  to  discuss.  Not  even  a 
good  friend  is  willing  to  men- 
tion the  'matter  of  halitosis 
(unpleasant  breath),  the  unfor- 
givable social  fault. 


Before    social    engagements,    end    halitosis 


(UNPLEASANT 
BREATH) 


Science  reveals  Listerine,  always  safest  of  antiseptics, 

now  the  swiftest  of  deodorants.    Overcomes  immediately 

odors  other  solutions  fail  to  mask  in  4  days. 

Searching  scientific  tests  show  that  Listerine,  always  the  safest  of 
antiseptics,  is  also  the  swiftest  of  deodorants  —  the  ideal  solution 
for  oral  hygiene  —  one  on  which  you  can  place  complete  reliance. 


It  is  your  safest,  surest,  and  most  de- 
lightful aid  in  overcoming  halitosis  (un- 
pleasant breath),  the  unforgivable  social 
and  business  fault.  Use  it  every  morning. 
Every  night.  And  between  times,  before 
meeting  others. 

Ninety  per  cent  of  all  halitosis  is  caused 
by  fermentation  of  tiny  food  particles  the 
tooth  brush  has  failed  to  remove.  Another 
5%  is  caused  by  oral  infections.  Listerine, 
because  highly  germicidal,  instantly  halts 
fermentation  and  attacks  infection;  reduces 
bacteria  98%. 

Immediate  Deodorant  Effect 

"Listerine  immediately  overcomes  odors 
that  ordinary  mouthwashes  fail  to  conceal 
in  4  days,"  says  a  noted  analytical  chemist. 


"Such  amazing  deodorant  power,  coupled 
with  swift,  germicidal  action,  makes  Lister- 
ine the  superior  solution  for  oral  use." 

Pleasant  to  Taste 

In  addition  to  these  qualities,  Listerine  has 
a  fresh,  pleasant  taste  and  leaves  an  invigor- 
ating after-effect  in  the  mouth. 

What  a  delightful  contrast  to  sickish, 
flat-tasting  mouthwashes  so  harsh  that  they 
must  be  diluted  before  using. 

Won't  Harm  Tissue  or  Teeth 

It  is  a  comfort  to  realize  that  no  matter 
how  often  Listerine  is  used  full  strength,  it 
does  not  harm  the  tissue,  or  attack  metal 
fillings  in  teeth,  as  some  antiseptic  mouth- 
washes do.  Indeed,  Listerine's  effect  is  al- 


ways beneficial,  a  fact  long  known  to  the 
medical  profession. 

Always  keep  Listerine  in  home  and  office. 
Carry  it  when  you  travel.  Tuck  a  bottle  in 
the  side  pocket  of  your  car.  Remember,  it 
is  a  precaution  against  infection.  And  also, 
your  assurance  that  your  breath  will  not 
offend  others.  Our  free  Book  of  Etiquette 
is  yours  for  the  asking.  Write  Dept.  P.H.9 
Lambert  Pharmacal  Company,  21 01  Locust 
Street,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


8 

Reasons  Why  Millions 

Prefer  Listerine: 

1. 

Absolutely  safe  to  use. 

2. 

Quick  deodorant  power. 

3- 

Instant  halting  of  fermentation. 

4- 

Swift  destruction  of  germs. 

5- 

Pleasant  to  taste. 

6. 

Does  not  attack  metal  fillings  in  teeth. 

7- 

Heals  and  soothes  tissue. 

8. 

Requires  no  dilution. 

THE    SAFE    ANTISEPTIC-KILLS    GERMS    ITS    FASTEST    TIME    ACCURATELY    RECORDED    HY    SCIENCE 


THINKING  the  whole  thing  over,  we've  decided  to  go  even 
further  than  President  Hoover.  Why  stop  at  a  mere  mora' 
torium  for  Germany?  Call  off  the  whole  war  debt — but  make 
Germany  give  us  Dietrich  in  return!  After  all,  what's  a  few  bil- 
lion dollars  alongside  of  Frau  Marlene? 


THE  greatest  actress  of  them  all,  Hollywood's  most  sought' 
after  person.  Facing  sixty,  Marie  Dressier  remains  younger 
than  a  flapper  and  modern  as  next  year's  hat.  She's  just  finished 
"Politics."  An  article  in  this  issue,  "Don't  Expect  Too  Much," 
gives  you  her  philosophy  of  life.     Read  it 


JUST  twenty-one,  is  Marion  Shilling,  but  she  knows  this  acting 
business  from  baby  roles  to  gangsters'  sweethearts,  for  she  made 
her  stage  debut  in  her  father's  St.  Louis  stock  company  at  the  age 
of  five.  You  enjoyed  her  in  "Young  Donovan's  Kid."  Now  you'll 
see  her  with  Connie  Bennett  in  "The  Common  Law" 


M'G-M  is  now  known  as  the  House  of  One  Gable,  but  what  a 
Gable  that  boy  Clark  is!  Starting  in  obscure,  menace-man 
parts,  he  is  now  Garbo's  leading  man  in  the  hectic  production  of 
"Susan  Lenox."  He's  just  promised  to  love  and  cherish  for  the 
second  time 


gossard 


Positive  and  Negative 
Photograph 


ine  o 
beaut 


•  You  need  no  longer  envy 
the  lovely  figures  of  the  lucky 
few,  favored  by  nature.  Any 
woman  can  be  a  slim  beauty 
.  .  .  if  she  wears  Gossard's 
MisSimplicity!  No  ordinary 
foundation  garment,  this,  for 
it  skillfully  —  and  gently  — 
moulds  the  figure  to  desirable 
contours.  Greater  figure  con- 
trol is  achieved  through  the 
converging  diagonal  pull  of 
the  waistline  straps,  that  flat- 
tens the  diaphragm  and  ab- 
domen, slims  the  waist  and 
uplifts  the  bust. 

•  The  photograph  shows  a 
peach  satin,  lace  and  hand- 
loomed  elastic  MisSimplicity 
model,  with  a  new  low  back. 
Model  8458. 


Simplicity 


Rejj  U.S.P»t  Off 


The  H.  W.  Gossard  Co.,  Division  of  Associated  Apparel  Industries,  Inc.,  Chicago,  New  York,  San  Francisco,  Dallas,  Atlanta,  London, Toronto,  Sydney,  Buenos  Air 


Every  I1/ 2  Minutes . . . 

A  NEW  BRIDE! 

95  out  of  every  100  asked  meet 
the  Dishpan  Problem  this  way 


(Above)  Young,  in  love, and  just  mar- 
ried .  .  .  she  won't  mind  washing 
dishes  for  two — for  Lux  will  keep  her 
hands  lovely  as  on  her  wedding  day ! 

(Right)  A  glamorous  bride!  Yet  she 
will  be  cook  and  "dishwasher,"  too. 
Thanks  to  Lux,  her  hands  will  never 
betray  her  home-making  tasks. 


RADIANT  young  brides !  Every 
■  VA  minutes,  somewhere  in 
the  United  States,  a  new  one! 

And  95  out  of  every  100  ques- 
tioned, in  11  big  cities,  plan  to 
wash  dishes  with  Lux  ...  to 
guard  the  young  loveliness  of 
their  hands. 

"We're  not  going  to  let  dish- 
washing make  us  look  like 
drudges.  Dishpan  hands  are  old- 
fashioned,"  they  sray. 


So  many  soaps  dry  the 
oils  of  the  skin,  leave 
the  hands  rough  and  old. 
Gentle,  bland  Lux  pro- 
tects the  beauty  oils, 
thus  keeping  hands  soft- 
ly, endearingly  young. 


"And  with  Lux  in  the  house, 
our  hands  need  never  lose  their 
young  white  smoothness.  Lux 
gives  hands  beauty  treatment 
right  in  the  dishpan!" 

Beauty  experts  in  305  famous 
shops  advise  this  Lux  care  for 
the  hands.  It  keeps  your  busy 
hands  as  fragile  and  exquisite  as 
though  you  had  maids.  Do  try 
it  today!  Costs  almost  nothing 
— less  than  Ha  day. 


(Above)  A  thrilling  wedding  trip — in  the 
air!  And  the  chic,  modern  bride  plans 
to  keep  house  in  up-to-date  fashion. 
Naturally  she  chooses  Lux  for  dishes. 
So  quick — and  no  danger  of  old-fash- 
ioned dishpan  hands. 

(Below)  This  charming  young  bride  of 
an  army  lieutenant  may  keep  house  in 
far  corners  of  the  world,  but  wherever 
she  travels  she'll  find  Lux  to  keep  her 
hands  charming,  no  matter  how  busy 
they  are  with  domestic  problems. 


LUX  FOR  DISHES  keeps  hands  lovely  for  less  than  w  a  day 


September,  1931 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots 


By 

James  R.  Quirk 


THEODORE  DREISER  is  all  hot 
and  bothered  because  he  thinks  the 
Paramount  Company  didn't  do  right 
by  his  "American  Tragedy."  What's  eat- 
ing him  anyhow?  It  ain't  art  like  his  book, 
he  says,  and  he  goes  into  court  to  stop  the 
company  from  releasing  it. 

Didn't  Dreiser  know  when  he  accepted 
$150,000  for  his  long  winded  yarn — which 
I  confess  was  an  effort  for  me  to  read — that  it  was 
going  to  be  made  into  a  picture,  or  did  he  think  the 
company  was  going  to  embalm  it? 

The  picture — I've  seen  it — is  ten  times  as  entertain- 
ing as  the  book.  Go  see  it  and  take  your  boys  and 
girls.    It  will  do  them  good. 


GREATEST-Amazement-of-the-Month  Xote : 
Conrad  Nagel,  pillar  of  society  in  the  film 
colony,  usher  at  a  Hollywood  church,  leader  in  the 
Finer  Things  of  Life,  was  being  urged  for  one  of  the 
hard-boiled  parts  in  a  naval  aviation  picture  to  be  shot 
on  his  home  lot,  M-G-M.  But  the  director  and  super- 
visor pooh-poohed  the  executive  who  suggested  casting 
Nagel. 

"Nagel?"  they  scoffed.  "That  fellow  can't  do  this 
tough  guy  role." 

"Well,  give  him  a  test,  anyhow,"  urged  the  ex- 
ecutive. 

When  they  told  Nagel  to  take  the  test  he  exploded. 
Why,  he  demanded,  should  he  who  had  played  in 
pictures  for  years  take  a  test  on  his  home  lot?  Didn't 
they  know  how  he  looked  and  photographed? 

"Take  it,  anyhow,"  soothed  his  friend.  Nagel 
agreed,  but  boiling.  His  temperature  wasn't  reduced 
when  he  appeared  for  the  test,  and  found  the  director 
and  supervisor  openly  cool  to  him.  He  got  into  his 
costume,  walked  onto  the  sound  stage.  The  director 
and  supervisor  weren't  there — just  the  crew. 


"Is  the  mike  on?"  asked  Nagel,  grim 
faced. 

"  Nope,  this  is  just  for  camera,  no  sound." 

"Turn  on  that  mike,"  Conrad  ordered. 
"This  is  going  to  be  sound  whether  they 
want  it  or  not." 

They  turned  it  on,  started  the  cameras. 


NAGEL  glared  into  the  lens. 
"All  right  now,  you !"  he 

roared.  "You  thought  I  couldn't  do  this  role,  huh? 
You  thought  because  I  am  not  a  drunken  bum  that  I 
am  a  pretty  little  flower,  did  you?  You  so-and-so,  you 
wanted  to  see  how  I'd  look  for  this  part,  did  you? 
Well,  here  I  am  and  take  a  good  look  at  me  .  .  ." 
With  that,  he  glared  ferociously  and  stomped  off  the 
set  in  a  genuine  high  rage. 

Next  day  he  was  cooled.  Too,  conscience  was 
biting  him.  He  reported  at  the  studio.  The  director 
and  supervisor  were  waiting. 

He  saw  them  coming  at  him,  and  steeled  himself 
for  the  worst.  They  descended  on  him  simultane- 
ously. 

"Conrad!"  they  fairly  shrieked,  "Conrad,  old  boy, 
old  boy,  old  boy — you  were  great!  Simply  swell! 
Marvelous!"    And  so  on. 

And  he  got  the  role. 

And  he  wonders  whether  it  really  pays  to  try  so  hard 
to  be  a  gentleman— a  nice,  good,  clean-speaking 
gentleman — in  Hollywood. 


THE  physical  exertion  Marie  Dressier  expends  in 
some  of  her  slapstick   scenes — remember  "Min 
and  Bill,"  for  instance?— sometimes  frightens  studio 

officials. 

Once,  when  she  was  working  particularly  hard,  the 
director  warned  her. 

25 


*'  Be  careful :  don't  do  it  too  hard,"'  lie  remonstrated. 
.Marie  stopped  short  and  glared. 
"Don't  worry  about  me,"  she  growled.     "What  do 
you  think  I  am — an  old  woman?" 

THERE'S  been  a  lot  of  talk  about  "adult  pictures 
for  adults"  and  separate  showings  of  "children's 
pictures  for  children."  Most  of  this  talk  is  based  on 
arguments  that  the  legitimate  stage  hasn't  had  to  bow 
to  the  intelligence  of  children  by  producing  plays  that 
are  down  to  the  level  of  their  experience — that  the 
stage  is  run  primarily  for  grown-ups,  exceptfor  special 
children's  theaters  or  special  performances  for  children. 

That's  all  very  well  for  the  stage.  The  average  man 
and  wife  go  to  the  theater  seldom.  It's  an  expensive 
proposition,  in  the  first  place.  And,  in  the  second 
place,  except  where  there  is  a  maid  who  "lives  in," 
someone  must  be  provided  to  "stay  with  the  children," 
to  see  that  little  Bobby  doesn't  climb  out  of  his  crib 
and  through  the  open  window  next  to  it;  that  Johnnie 
doesn't  play  with  matches  and  set  fire  to  the  house  and 
himself;  that  Mary  doesn't  burn  the  midnight  oil 
reading  "Ex-Schoolgirl"  instead  of  doing  her  home- 
work. 

Going  to  the  legitimate  theater  is  in  the  nature 
of  "an  evening  off" — a  treat  for  the  average  married 
couple  of  moderate  means. 

YET  the  movies  haven't  been  a  "treat"  to  such 
families.  Picture  shows  have  been  a  part  of  their 
lives.  Household  duties  out  of  the  way,  the  children 
home  from  school  for  the  day,  many  a  mother  takes 
her  brood  to  the  picture  house  around  the  corner  for 
an  hour  or  two  of  entertainment  and  relaxation.  Or, 
waiting  for  dad,  they  hurry  the  supper  dishes  and  the 
family  goes  en  masse  to  the  first  show. 

Not  just  once  in  a  while,  but  from  one  to  several 
times  each  week. 

The  average  family  doesn't  want  to  see  "Sunday 
School  pictures."  Mothers  and  fathers  have  learned 
that  children  who  are  most  shielded  from  a  knowledge 
of  life  aren't  the  best  equipped  to  meet  the  world  as 
grown-ups. 

BUT — glorified  gun  men  -girls  who  have  run  the 
gauntlet  of  sex-experiences  without  showing  a 
trace  of  the  sure  marks  that  sordid  living  inevitably 
leaves,  whose  only  penalty  for  breaking  every  moral 
code  is  to  be  rewarded  with  a  richness  of  love  and  life 
that  rarely  falls  to  the  lot  of  the  best  of  women — a 
(heap,  pseudo-sophistication  in  manner  and  speech 
that  the  average  adolescent  easily  mistakes  for  the 
genuine  article — all  these  are  the  weak  links  in  the 
chain  of  recent  pictures. 

I  must  give  most  producers  credit  for  realizing  this 
now  that  the  public  has  spoken  its  mind  so  forcibly. 
They  were  well  on  their  way  to  a  solution  of  the 
problem  when  along  came  the  talkies.  And  now 
they've  got  to  learn  all  over  again.  Let's  try  to  have 
a  little  patience. 

26 


SCENE:  Big  producer's  office. 
Enter  secretary. 

Secretary:  "Relative  to  see  you,  sir." 

Producer:  "Where  from?" 

Sec:  "Germany." 

Producer:  "Send  him  to  the  Foreign  Relations  De- 
partment." 

Intermission. 

Enter  secretary  again. 

Sec:  "Relative  to  see  you,  sir." 

Producer:  "What  for?" 

Sec:  "Wants  part  in  picture." 

Producer:  "Who  is  he?" 

Sec:  "Says  he  is  your  third  cousin." 

Producer:  "Tell  him  to  come  back  day  after  to- 
morrow; we're  only  casting  first  cousins  today." 

A  FEW  months  ago  the  studio  heads  got  together 
and  decided  that  newspaper  and  magazine 
writers,  as  well  as  actors'  agents  and  trade  paper  ad- 
vertising solicitors,  were  a  bally  nuisance  around  the 
lots.  There  was  indeed  some  basis  for  their  decision, 
for  much  valuable  time  is  lost  when  such  folks  are  per- 
mitted to  roam  in  and  out  of  sets  when  the  serious 
business  of  shooting  a  picture  is  in  progress. 

Time  was  when  anyone  who  could  dig  up  a  creden- 
tial from  the  Bingville  Bugle  or  the  Tootstown  Clarion 
could  loaf  around  the  studio,  ostensibly  interviewing 
stars  for  stories  that  were  never  printed,  never  even 
written.  I  knew  of  one  case,  years  ago,  of  a  man  who 
could  hardly  write  his  own  name  who  posed  for 
months  as  a  writer  and  whose  only  source  of  income 
was  chiseling  loans  from  players. 

NOW,  if  Irvin  Cobb  wanted  to  interview  a  star 
for  The  Saturday  Evening  Post  he  would  have  to 
secure  a  pass,  walk  the  gamut  of  a  lot  of  hard-eyed 
cops  carrying  loaded  revolvers,  and  hold  his  tete-a-tete 
with  the  star  under  the  watchful  eyes  and  ears  of  one 
of  the  publicity  boys. 

The  result  has  been  that,  shut  off  from  access  to 
their  sources  of  news  with  the  exception  of  the"  hand- 
out" junk  manufactured  by  the  press  agents,  the  boys 
and  girls  of  the  legitimate  newspapers,  magazines,  and 
news  agencies  are  giving  the  studios  a  panning,  and 
are  digging  up  stories  that  are  not  at  all  to  the  liking 
of  the  producers. 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  access  to  the  studios  is  not  nec- 
essary. More  truth  and  genuine  news  can  be  secured 
from  outside  sources,  and  that's  where  the  writing 
folks  are  getting  it.  A  good  reporter  doesn't  need  a 
pass  to  a  burning  building  to  write  his  story  about  it. 

THEY  used  to  hire  press  agents  to  create  news. 
Now   they   hire   them   to   hide   it.      What's   the 
matter?    Troubled  conscience? 

Old  Commodore  Vanderbilt  said,  "To  hell  with  the 
public."  The  producers  now  say,  "To  hell  with  the 
press." 

Careful  boys,  danger  ahead.  Just  because  you  had 
a  headache  you  didn't  need  your  appendix  out. 


I   I  uwles 


A  WEEK'S  work  of  the  technical  crew, 
■*  *•  and  an  expenditure  of  ten  thousand 
dollars  went  into  the  making  of  this  set 
before  it  was  ready  for  use.  The  set  was 
built  along  the  edge  of  the  big  studio  tank, 
and   this   photo  was  made  while  Sessue 


Hayakawa  was  rehearsing  a  scene.  Some- 
where behind  the  set  Anna  May  Wong  is 
waiting  her  turn  in  front  of  the  great 
incandescent  lamps.  "Daughter  of  the 
Dragon"  marks  the  screen  return  of  these 
two  Oriental  players  after  long  absences 

or 


Granddaughter  of  an 


Study  this  picture  of  Elissa  Landi—  straight  nose,  determined  chin, 
lift  of  the  eyebrows.    Now  look  at  the  photo  on  the  right 


ELISSA  LANDI,  according  to  the  written  confession  of  her  own 
mother,  is  the  granddaughter  of  the  late  Empress  Elizabeth  of 
Austria! 
And  when  you've  recovered  from  the  shock  there's  more  to  be  told. 
And  when  Hollywood  catches  on  that  it's  been  harboring  royalty  in  its 
midst  without  knowing  about  it — won't  Mary  Pickford,  who  entertains 
all  the  visiting  coronets  and  crowns,  be  sore! 

Elissa  has  not,  herself,  told  the  story.  Elissa  does  not  want  the  story  told, 
and  for  that  modesty  she  deserves  a  big  laurel  wreath  all  her  own. 

Now  that  I  know  this  startling  fact,  I  look  back  upon  my  brief  acquaint- 
ance with  Elissa  and  a  number  of  things  are  explained.  When  she  arrived 
in  Hollywood  there  was  that  strange  underground  excitement,  peculiar  to 
the  city.  Everybody  talked  about  this  lovely,  poised,  distinguished  woman. 
Everybody  said,  "Have  you  met  Elissa  Landi?    She's  too  wonderful." 

And  it  was  not  merely  because  she  had  had  three  novels  published  in 
England,  spoke  four  languages,  played  and  composed  music  surprisingly 
well.  It  was  something  else.  Perhaps  I'm  crediting  the  town  with  too 
much  perception,  but  I  believe  it  felt  the  commanding  presence  of  royal 
blood. 

Many  months  ago  I  wrote  of  Elissa,  "  I  approach  this  interview  with  due 

28 


humility  because  I  know  that  I  am 
writing  about  an  important  person  and 
I  mean  by  this  someone  who  is  im- 
portant as  a  person,  not  merely  as  an 
actress."  I  did  not  know  at  the  time 
that  I  was  speaking  of  the  grand- 
daughter of  an  Empress! 

Although  always  charming  to  inter- 
viewers, Elissa  told  very  little  of  her 
background.  She  said  nothing  of  her 
father,  and  when  she  filled  out  her 
biography  for  publicity  purposes,  she 
wrote  that  she  was  born  in  Venice, 
Italy,  December  6,  and  that  her 
nationality  was  English.  (She  is 
married  to  an  Englishman  and  is 
therefore  a  British  subject.)  She  left 
blank  the  space  provided  for  parents' 
names,  brothers  and  sisters  and  famous 
relatives. 

She  hoped,  I  now  know,  that  the 
facts  about  her  heritage  would  never 
be  related,  for  she  has  no  desire,  I'm 
sure,  to  join  that  vast  horde  of  pseudo- 
royalty  that  clutters  the  Hollywood 
boulevards. 


Empress  Elizabeth  of  Austria.    Do  you 

see  the  remarkable  resemblance?  Who 

wouldn't? 


Kmp 


ress 


Hollywood  was  har- 
boring royalty  and 
didn't  know  it 


By 

Katherine   Albert 


•* 


r 


Arrogant, 
b'e  autiful 
Elissa.  Every 
inch  a  grand- 
daughter of  an 
Empress 


COVMKSS    ZANARI'I     LXXDI     \\<>    HKIi    <I1ILI>UIN. 
WK.SNIKW/     \\1.    KUSAHtTH  MVKIt  CHRIbTINK 


Here  is  the  frontispiece  of  the  Countess'  book,  "The 
Secret  of  an  Empress."     The  girl  is  Elissa  Landi 


But  the  printed  word  is  a  strange  thing  and  there  is,  in  the 
reference  room  of  the  New  York  Public  Library,  a  book  en- 
titled "The  Secret  of  an  Empress,"  by  Countess  Zarnardi 
Landi.  Countess  Zarnardi  Landi  is  the  mother  of  Elissa—  the 
same  Elissa  who  is  a  Fox  star  and  whom  you've  seen  in  "  Body 
and  Soul"  and  "Always  Goodbye" — a  strange,  exciting, 
glamorous  figure. 

What  is  "  The  Secret  of  an  Empress  "?  The  writer,  Caroline, 
later  the  Countess  Zarnardi  Landi  and  the  mother  of  Elissa, 
was  born  to  believe  herself  the  child  of  a  family  called  Kaiser 
who  lived  in  Vienna,  but  she  soon  discovered  that  the  mys- 
terious and  lovely  lady  who  paid  her  frequent  secret  visits  and 
who  was  addressed  as  a  woman  of  supreme  importance,  was  her 
mother.  That  woman,  Caroline's  mother,  was  the  Empress 
Elizabeth  of  Austria! 

You'll  find  pictures  of  the  Empress  on  these  pages.  Compare 
them  with  the  stills  of  Elissa  Landi.  Startling,  isn't  it?  In 
coloring,  too,  they  are  alike.  The  Empress'  hair,  a  tawny  mop 
of  reddish  gold  glory,  was  the  talk  of  Europe.  Elissa's  hair  is 
like  that  of  Elizabeth.  Elizabeth  was  a  great  lover  of  music- 
Wagnerian,  particularly.  Wagner  is  one  of  Elissa's  gods. 
Strange  how  such  traits  are  passed  on  from  generation  to 
generation. 

Caroline's  existence  was  kept  a  secret  because  Empress 
Elizabeth,  an  intelligent  and  extremely  modern  woman,  for  her 
time,  resented  the  vigorous  rules  of  the  court  that  provided  an 
empress-mother  could  not  rear  her  own  children,  but  must  turn 
them  over  to  the  Archduchess     [  PLEASE  TURN  to  PAGE  113  ] 


Roughing 

it 

With 

Ci 


Occasionally  Rex  carries  Clara  pick-a-back.    She  is 

sixteen    pounds    overstudioweight,    but    Rex    can 

handle  her  like  a  child 


2l  r  ci 


B y    Ha rry   Lang 


HOW  about  going  to  Rex  Bell's  Nevada  ranch,  to  see 
how  Rex  and  Clara  Bow  are  comin'  along?  Okay, 
then— 

You  start  out  from  Hollywood  before  sun-up,  and 
the  first  three-score  miles  aren't  bad.  The  going  is  pleasing 
to  the  eye. 

You  purr  through  orange  groves  and  vineyards  and  ham- 
burger stands  until  you  reach  San  Bernardino — "San  Berdoo," 
the  native  sons  call  it,  more  or  less  affectionately.   .  .  . 

Then  you  turn  north  and  pop  through  the  Cajon  Pass — a 
half-hundred-mile-long  gateway 
through  the  mountains — and  drop 
into  Victorville,  a  lazy  little  railroad 
town.  YictorviLIe's  the  jumping-off 
place  into  the  desert.  You  fill  up 
with  gas  and  water,  peel  off  your 
coat,  smear  a  little  cold  cream  on 
your  lips,  and  step  on  'er.  Sixty 
to  seventy  an  hour  isn't  half  fast 
enough  through  those  endless  miles 
of  greasewood  and  yucca  trees  and 
cactus  and  heat  .   .  . 

Stop  at  a  gas  station — oh,  yes, 
they've  got  'em  in  the  desert,  too, 
but  you  pay! — and  sneak  a  look  at 
the  thermometer.  108.  "Kinda 
hot,"  you  suggest.  The  gas  man 
grunts.  "This  ain't  so  bad — wait'll 
it  really   gets   hot  .  .  ." 

A  hundred  and  fifty  miles  of  Mo- 
jave  sand  and  heat  and  cactus,  and 
you  reach  a  filling  station,  cold  drink 
and  hamburger  stand,  and  signpost. 
The  signpost  says  this  is  Lakeview. 
Off  in  the  distance  you  see  the  lake — 
only  it's  dry.  One  of  those  desert 
dry  lakes — white  expanse  of  alkali 
that  hurts  to  look  at.  Signpost  says 
Nipton  ten  and  a  half  miles,  and 
points  off  down  a  desert  road.  So 
far,  the  road's  been  paved.  But 
now  .  .  . 


Violently  you  leap  off  the  pave  into  the  desert.  No  other 
way  to  do  it,  because  it's  a  quick  drop  into  the  sand  road.  Then 
for  ten  and  a  half  miles  you  twist  and  squirm  and  slide  and 
bounce  and  bump  and  jiggle  and  sweat — lord,  how  you  sweat! 
An  occasional  jack-rabbit  sits  up  and  looks  bewilderedly  at 
you;  across  the  road  scurry  countless  grey-yellow  lizards,  tails 
twice  as  long  as  their  body. 

You  squash  numbers  of  them;  they  aren't  roadwise.  And 
bye  and  bye,  you  boil  up  to  a  stop  .  .  . 

There's  a  general  store  and  post  office;  a  box  car  that's  been 
converted  into  a  railroad  station; 
another  shack  labeled  Hotel,  but  you 
doubt  it;  a  gas  pump.  You  step  into 
the  post  office-and-store  and  when 
your  eyes  get  accustomed,  you  see  a 
squat  fellow  behind  the  counter,  in 
his  undershirt.  This,  you  learn 
later,  is  "Tree" — his  full  name  is 
Trehearn,  or  something  like  that, 
but  you  call  him  just  "Tree"  for 
short.  It's  so  hot  that  any  waste 
effort  is  criminal. 


TREE"  is  blind  in  one  eye;  has 
one-sixteenth  normal  vision  in 
the  other.  He's  postmaster.  He  goes 
to  the  Saturday  night  dance  over  at 
Searchlight,  and  people  get  mad 
when  he  bumps  into  them  with  his 
partner — until  they  learn  he  can't 
see  so  well.  Clara  knows  him  well  by 
now;  he  knows  Clara,  too  .  .  . 

"What's  the  way  to  Rex  Bell's 
ranch?"  you  ask  him. 

He  takes  a  pencil  and  draws  a  line 
on  the  post  office  door.  "This,"  he 
says,  "is  the  road.  You  just  follow 
it.  You  can't  get  lost  because  there 
ain't  no  other  road.  You  climb 
about  nine  miles  till  you  get  to  the 
summit,  then  you  go  five  miles  more, 
and  when  you  see  some  buildings  off 


Clara  spends  much  of  her  time  shooting 

at  tin  cans,  rabbits,  buzzards,  and  fence 

posts.      And    quite    often    she   supplies 

rabbits  for  supper 


30 


The  Star  who  dreaded  the  old  devil  microphone  and 

was  forced  to  live  her  life  on  the  front  pages  of 

newspapers 


Free  from  the  studios,  make-up,  and  make-believe, 

this  picture  of  a  world-weary  girl  was  made  at  Rex 

Bell's  ranch 


to  the  right,  you  turn  off  there,  because 
that's  Bell's  place.  There  ain't  no  other, 
so  you  can't  miss  it. 

"But  if  you  stick  around  here,  Rex 
and  Clara'll  be  here.  They  come  in 
every  day  an'  do  their  shoppin' — and 
Clara  shoots  some.  Hell,  her  nerves 
ain't  so  bad  when  she  c'n  take  that 
twenty-two  and,  fast  as  she  c'n  pump, 
stand  here  and  hit  that  post  over  there 
every  time! — well,  anyways,  nearly  every 
time  .  .  .!" 

You  decide  to  go  on.  And  so, 
eventually,  through  thick  sand  and  over 
rough  rock,  through  cactus  and  millions 
of  those  weird  yucca  trees  that  look  like 
something  that  ought  to  grow  on  the 
moon,  you  come  to  a 
wooden  mailbox,  and  a 
fork. 

Buildings  over  there, 
a  half  mile  off — must  be 
Rex  Bell's  ranch.  You 
turn,  dive  into  gullies  and 
out,  squash  a  few  more 
lizards,  disturb  a  few  jack- 
rabbits  and  roll  into  a 
corral  .   .   . 

It's  a  wire  enclosure  sur- 
rounding a  cleared  space. 
There's  a  ramshackle,  un- 
painted  barn. 

Farm  implements  arc 
scattered  helter-skelter.  A 
disgusted-looking  cow  gets 
up  out  of  the  road  and  you 
wonder  how  she  escapes 
being  barbecued  alive  in 


An  amazing  story 
of  how  Clara  lives 
on  an  old  isolated 
ranch,  far,  far  from 
Hollywood,  and  is 
happier  than  she 
has  ever  been  be- 
fore in  her  life 


this  heat.  In  front  of  yon  is  a  long, 
low,  unpainted,  uninviting-looking 
wooden  shack  with  a  tin  roof. 

It  looks  like  the  barracks  they  throw 
together  for  section-hands  on  a  short 
job. 

There's  no  garden;  no  paint;  nothing 
whatever   attractive  .  .  . 

AND  this  is  where,  as  this  is  written. 
Clara  Bow  and  Rex  Bell  are 
living  while  Clara  tries  to  regain  her 
wrecked  health! 

It's  certainly  no  Dude  Ranch. 
It  doesn't  belong  to  Rex  yet— still  in 
escrow.      It's  360.000  acres,   in   round 
figures,  of     [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  102  ] 


A  simple,  board  shack,  without  conveniences,  this  is  where  Clara  is  regaining  her 
health  and  self.    The  shower  at  right 


31 


Garbo  as  she  wants  to  be  (above)  child  of  nature,  alone,  disregarding 

fancy  clothes,  happy,  and  (right)  as  she  is  in  "Susan  Lenox."   They've 

put  poor  old  Sasan  in  a  penthouse !   Well,  there's  nothing  like  going 

"way  up  when  you  do  decide  to  rise 


32 


The  Man  JVho  Tried  To 
Elope  IVith  Garbo 


LATE  one  evening  last 
November,  a  few  days  be- 
fore he  was  to  sail  for  his 
home  in  Sweden  —  Wil- 
helm  Sorensen  dashed  up  to  my 
house  in  his  roadster.  His  face 
was  flushed,  his  eyes  sparkling 
with  excitement.  He  asked  if  he 
might  have  a  few  minutes  with 
me. 

I  had  not  expected  to  see  him 
again.  Only  the  night  before 
Greta  Garbo's  mysterious  prince 
— as  he  was  known  around  Holly- 
wood— had  bade  me  goodbye. 
For  this  tall,  lean  lad  from 
Sweden,  who  had  left  the  luxuri- 
ous, easy  life  accorded  a  young 
son  of  a  wealthy  aristocrat  of 
Stockholm,  to  follow  Greta 
Garbo  to  Hollywood — was  going 
back  home. 

The  night  before  he  had  ad- 
mitted that  he  was  tired  of  the 
film  capital.  That  the  glamor- 
ous, alluringly  spicy  Hollywood 
he  had  expected  to  find,  where 
life  would  bring  a  continuous 
round  of  fascinating  pleasure 
with  the  exotic  Greta  Garbo  at 
his  side,  had  proved  to  be  a  delu- 
sion and  a  snare.  He  said  he  had 
given  up  his  room  in  the  little 
hillside  house  that  for  nearly  a 
year  he  had  called  home.  That 
he  had  sold  his  roadster,  packed 
his  bags  and  engaged  passage  on 
a  freight  steamer  bound  for 
Sweden. 

It  would  take  thirty -one  days 
to  make  the  ocean  voyage.  But 
he  didn't  mind  that.  He  didn't 
care  where  he  was,  just  so  he  got 
away  from  Hollywood  and  ar- 
rived home  in  time  for  the  Christ- 
mas holidays. 

Soren  was  very  blue  that  night 
he  bade  me  goodbye.  He  frankly 
admitted   that   he  was  sick  at 
heart  at  the  thought  of  leaving  Greta 
be  anyone  to  take  her  place. 


A  never-told  story  of  a 
fellow  countryman  who  was 
hopelessly  in  love  with  her 


He  failed  to  make  her  Mrs.  Wilhelm  Sorensen  so 

he  sailed  to  Sweden,  heartbroken,  still  dreaming 

of  Greta 


That  there  could  never 


I"  WILL  never  forget  the  wonderful  times  we  have  had  to- 
JL  gether,"  he  said  in  reminiscent  tones.     "  Especially  those 
first  days  over  in  Sweden,  when  she  came  home  that  winter  on 
her  vacation. 

"And  Greta  liked  me  then!  She  had  tears  in  her  eyes  when 
the  boat  sailed  taking  her  back  to  America.  Her  first  day  out 
I  had  a  cable  from  her  asking  me  not  to  forget.  For  three  days 
I  was  awakened  each  morning  with  a  cable  from  her.  A  few 
words  reaching  out  across  the  ocean  that  was  fast  widening 
between  us,  whispering  that  she  had  not  forgotten. 

"As  the  days  took  her  farther 
and  farther  away  from  me,  I 


morning  there  came  a  cable  ask- 
ing me  to  come.  It  was  sent 
from  a  little  town  in  Arizona. 
Wild  horses  couldn't  have 
stopped  me  then!  I  would  have 
followed  her  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth! 

"My  father  and  mother 
thought  my  infatuation — as  they 
called  my  adoration  for  Garbo — 
would  soon  fade  away.  But  I 
couldn't  eat!  I  couldn't  sleep! 
Finally  they  consented  to  let  me 
make  a  trip  to  Hollywood.  There 
was  nothing  else  they  could  do. 
I  would  have  gone,  anyway. 

"Neither  mother  nor  father 
had  met  Greta  or  even  seen  her 
on  the  screen.  So  they  decided 
they  must  see  this  girl  who  had 
taken  such  a  hold  of  their  son's 
heart.  They  found  a  theater 
where  one  of  her  early  pictures 
with  Jack  Gilbert  was  being 
shown. 

"T  KNEW  they  wouldn't  like 
J-  her  in  that  heavy  vamp  role. 
But  I  couldn't  help  but  laugh 
when  father  said  he  could  not 
understand  what  I  saw  in  that 
girl  who  looked  like  a  dairy  maid. 
I  knew  he  didn't  mean  that! 
Imagine  Greta  Garbo  looking 
like  a  dairy  maid! 

"Soon  after  my  arrival  in 
Hollywood,  I  found  that  the 
Greta  Garbo  of  Hollywood  was 
quite  a  different  person  from  the 
Greta  Garbo  of  Stockholm. 

"At  home  she  was  a  rollicking, 
mischievous  girl,  always  ready 
for  a  lark  on  a  minute's  notice. 
"In  Hollywood  she  was  a 
solemn,  quiet  young  lady,  living 
the  secluded  life  of  a  hermit. 

"In  Stockholm  she  was  eager 
and  always  ready  to  meet  my 
friends  and  relatives.    Her  mer- 
riest days  were  spent  at  house  parties  at  my  cousin's  castle  near 
Stockholm. 

"  In  Hollywood  I  soon  found  that  Greta  knew  only  a  handful 
of  people  and  that  she  made  no  effort  to  have  me  meet  those 
few.    And  she  couldn't  be  dragged  to  a  party! 

"Her  home  was  lovely  and  it  was  always  open  to  me.  Her 
spacious  garden — her  swimming  pool — her  books.  I  spent 
many  happy  hours  with  her  when  she  wasn't  working.  Then 
we  walked.  We  drove.  We  swam.  Always  we  were  alone. 
Just  we  two. 

"But  occasionally  I  longed  to  see  the  gay,  glamorous  Holly- 
wood I  had  heard  so  much  about.  And  I  would  have  liked  to 
meet  some  of  the  fascinating  stars  of  the  screen. 

"  However,   I   found  that  I 
could  never  see  or  do  anv  of 


aim  ianner  awav  irum  me,  i  jj  T)     '    1   J  D  D         1  I  couia  never  see  or  uo  anv  u 

nearly  went  mad.     Then  one  £>  y     K  I  I  I  a     rage     ralmOOrg  [  please  turn  to  page  114  ] 


A   Famous  Author,    Peering  Behind   the  False  Fronts  of  a  Holl 


Octavus  Roy  Cohen 


1 11  u  strated  b  y 


THE  street  in  front  of  the  theater  was 
crowded.  From  both  directions  came  young 
men  and  girls — eager,  smiling  and  happy. 
In  the  lobby  they  smiled  at  one  another  as 
they  stood  in  line  waiting  to  purchase  tickets.  A 
large  and  affable  gentleman  —  who  managed  the 
road  show  —  chatted  expansively  with  the  few 
whom  he  recognized. 

The  young  men  were  dressed  in  light-weight, 
light-colored  suits;  the  girls  wore  dresses  of  muslin 
and  chiffon;  pinks,  blues  and  yellows  .  .  .  for  this 
was  a  moderately  small  town  and  it  was  summer. 

But  in  the  middle  of  the  street  a  dozen  onlookers 
huddled  about  a  queer  little  movable  furnace,  known  as  a 
salamander;  for — to  them — this  was  Hollywood  and  the  time 
was  winter. 

The  extras  struggled  heroically  to  still  the  chattering  of  their 
teeth  as  they  passed  gayly  through  the  lobby  and  into  the 
theater  which  was — beyond  the  doors — nothing  but  a  gauntly 
vacant  lot.  There,  pretense  dropped  from  them  and  they 
circled  to  the  street  again  and  wrapped  themselves  in  such 
sleazy  wraps  as  they  possessed. 

One  girl — pale  and  wan  beneath  her  make-up — but  unmis- 
takably pretty  in  a  fragile  way — looked  up  at  the  young  man 
who  had  been  directed  to  enact  the  inconsequential  role  of  her 
escort.  "Do  you  know,"  she  said  in  a  peculiarly  sweet  voice, 
"that  you  look  exactly  like  Michael  Dorian?" 

The  young  man  smiled.    "So  I've  been  told." 


Studio 


"At  first  I  thought  you  were  Dorian — until  I  realized  that 
you  were  just  an  extra." 

He  assisted  her  to  surmount  a  pile  of  discarded  scenery. 
Then,  after  she  had  wrapped  herself  in  a  pitifully  inadequate 
coat,  he  walked  toward  the  salamander  and  she  gazed  after  him 
— freshly  impressed  with  his  amazing  similarity  to  Michael 
Dorian,  one  of  the  most  brilliantly  successful  young  leading 
men  in  Hollywood. 

The  young  man  backed  up  close  to  the  portable  furnace  and 
lighted  a  cigarette.  He  was  mildly  interested  in  the  scene  which 
was  being  rehearsed.  Overhead  the  star-sprinkled  sky  hung 
like  a  gorgeous  evening  mantle.  Everywhere  there  was  bustle 
and  excitement,  and  the  chatter  of  actors  and  extras.  This 
scene,  apparently  so  simple,  was  presenting  unexpected  diffi- 
culties. 


84 


ood  Set,  Finds  the  Reality  of  a   Tender  and  Poignant  Incident 


omance 


The  director  was  nervous  and  irritable;  the  electricians  were 
loudly  profane.  Lights  were  wrongly  placed,  microphones 
needed  to  be  rearranged,  inexpert  extras  had  to  be  instructed  to 
modulate  their  voices  so  that  snatches  of  important  dialogue 
between  principals  would  register.  For  more  than  two  hours 
now  they  had  been  working  on  this  simple  scene.  Nerves  were 
ragged,  bodies  were  nipped  with  the  midnight  chill. 

Then  another  rehearsal,  and  the  young  man  found  himself 
again  with  the  pale  wisp  of  a  girl.  He  observed  that  she  was 
pretty,  in  a  delicate  sort  of  way.  They  walked  through  the 
scene,  director  and  sound-mixer  pronounced  it  right,  and  the 
lights  flared  on. 

The  scene  was  about  to  be  shot. 

Quiet  was  signalled  and  the  cameras  and  sound  recorders 
were  interlocked.    The  motors  stepped  up  to  proper  speed.    A 


Without  a  sound  she 
crumpled  on  the  floor 
of  the  theater  lobby. 
Principals  and  extras 
crowded  about  the  girl. 
From  the  street  came 
the  harsh  voice  of  the 
director,  wild  with  fury 


nervous  gesture   of   the   director's  hand  sig- 
nalled the  commencement  of  action. 

Out  of  bedlam  came  silence;  out  of  chaos, 
order.  The  scene  progressed  impressively  and 
smoothly.  The  young  man  moved  forward 
with  the  girl  toward  the  false  front  of  the 
theater  which  was  not  a  theater.  Once  she 
stumbled  slightly,  and  he  tightened  his  grip  on 
her  arm.  Again  she  stumbled,  and  he  looked 
down  at  her  somewhat  impatiently.  Her  face 
was  strangely  drawn  and  pallid. 

They  moved  into  camera  range,  smiling  and 
chatting  as  they  had  been  instructed  to  do. 

Then,  without  warning — quietly — the  slen- 
der figure  of  the  girl  sagged.    Without  word  or 
sound  she  crumpled  on  the  floor  of  the  theater 
lobby.     Somebody   shouted;    principals    and 
extras  stepped  out  of  character  and  crowded  about  the  girl. 
From  the  street  came  the  harsh  voice  of  the  director. 

"Cut!"'  he  roared.  Then  he  leaped  into  the  crowd,  flinging 
extras  aside  with  powerful  arms. 

The  director  was  wild  with  fury.  The  scene  had  been  right; 
after  more  than  two  hours  of  work  he  had  seen  himself  con- 
cluding, successfully,  a  shot  which  should  have  taken  twenty 
minutes.    And  now,  this! 

"The  girl  fainted,"  explained  an  electrician. 
"Fainted — hell!"'  The  director's  face  was  contorted  with 
anger.  "I've  seen  that  trick  a  thousand  times.  There's 
nothing  the  matter  with  her.  She's  pretending  to  be  sick  so  as 
to  attract  my  attention.  They  all  do  it;  they've  read  crazy 
stories  about  being  noticed.  She  isn't  any  more  sick  than  I  am. 
Get  her  off  this  lot — and  keep  her  off!" 


The  man  was  sincere.  Truly,  it  was  an  old  device.  This  time 
it  had  ruined  a  perfect  and  expensive  scene.  Again  he  looked 
down  at  the  girl  and  then  whirled  on  his  assistant. 

"  Get  her  off,  will  you?  Give  her  a  pay  ticket  and  throw  her 
off  the  lot.    I  never  want  to  see  her  again." 

The  girl's  escort  stepped  forward.  His  finely  chiselled  face 
was  wreathed  in  anger. 

"You  can't  do  that,"  he  said — "this  girl  is  really  sick." 

"I'll  do  what  I  please,  and  you  butt  out  of  here."       , 

"You'll  move  her  when  she  feels  better,"  said  the  young  man 
in  a  cold,  even  voice,  "and  not  before." 

The  director  stared.  Then  he  commenced  to  splutter.  And 
finally  the  words  cascaded  from  his  lips;  bitter,  furious,  excited, 
profane  words. 

"  Get  her  off  this  lot,"  he  howled — "and  get  yourself  off,  too. 
You're  both  fired!    I'll  have  you  blacklisted — both  of  you!" 

The  young  man  carried  the  girl  to  the  vicinity  of  a  red- 
bellied  salamander.  He  covered  her  with  a  wrap,  and  forced 
between  her  lips  some  steaming  coffee  which  another  extra  had 
brought  from  the  cafeteria. 

The  girl  opened  her  eyes.  Then  they  told  her  what  had 
happened. 

Tears  coursed  down  her  cheeks.  She  tried  to  regain  her  feet 
and  would  have  fallen  again  had  not  the  young  man  supported 
her. 

The  assistant  director  gave  them  both  their  pay-checks 
and  ordered  them  off  the  lot.  He  was  sorry,  but  he  dared  not 
argue  the  matter  with  his  chief. 

THE  girl  was  miserable  as  she  walked  with  the  young  man 
toward  the  gate.    She  obtained  her  money  from  the  cashier. 
"You  shouldn't  have  done  it!"  she  cried.    "I've  caused  you 

to  lose  your  job." 

"Don't  worry  about  me.    You  were  really  sick — and  I  knew 

it.     Now,"  he  finished  briskly,  "I'm  sending  you  home  in  a 

taxi." 

"No!    Please  .  .  .  I — I  can't  afford  a  taxi." 

"Rot!    You  can't  ride  a  street  car  in  your  present  condition." 

"But  I  can't  afford  a  cab."    She  clutched  the  seven  dollars 

which  the  cashier  had  just  paid  her.     "You  see,  this  is  all  I 


have.  I  fainted  because  I  haven't  eaten  a  decent  meal  in  three 
days.    I  can't  waste  my  money." 

She  was  an  appealing,  wistful  little  thing.  Against  her  pro- 
test, he  summoned  a  taxi.  She  told  him  her  name  and  gave  her 
address.  Then  he  leaned  in  through  the  open  door  of  the  cab 
and  pressed  something  into  her  palm. 

"Take  this,"  he  ordered  sternly.  "Pay  the  taxi  and  buy 
some  good  hot  food  for  yourself  with  the  remainder." 

She  looked  down  at  a  twenty-dollar  bill. 

"I  can't!"  she  cried.    "You  can't  afford  this!" 

"Oh  yes  I  can,"  he  said  lightly. 

"But  you  can't!    An  extra  .  .  ." 

HIS  voice  dropped  to  a  whisper.  "Can  you  keep  a  secret, 
on  your  word  of  honor  ?  " 

"Surely." 

"Well,  then,"  he  explained,  "this  is  it.  Remember  you  said 
I  looked  exactly  like  Michael  Dorian,  and  I  said,  'So  I've  been 
told'?  We  were  both  right.  I  look  like  Michael  Dorian  be- 
cause I  am  Michael  Dorian.  I  came  down  here  for  a  lark — and 
on  a  bet.  One  of  the  studio  executives  where  I  work  was 
kidding  me  that  I  couldn't  possibly  make  the  grade  if  I  started 
off  as  an  extra  in  a  company  where  they  didn't  know  me.  I 
bet  that  I  could  .  .  .  and  here  I  am.  I'm  trusting  you  with 
this  secret  so  you'll  understand  that  the  money  really  means 
nothing  to  me." 

She  pressed  his  hand  again — and  drove  away.  The  young 
man  stared  after  the  cab,  a  gentle  smile  on  his  lips.  He  had 
thought  that  he  knew  girls,  all  types  and  kinds  of  girls.  But 
this  one  was  different.  He  looked  down  at  the  piece  of  paper  on 
which  she  had  scribbled  her  name  and  address,  and  then — 
happily — he  walked  back  through  the  gate  to  the  cashier's 
cage. 

Through  the  barred  window  he  slipped  his  pay  voucher:  one 
night's  work — seven  dollars. 

"Name  please?"  asked  the  cashier. 

"Teddy  Smith,"  answered  the  young  man. 

The  cashier  looked  up  and  grinned. 

"Sure,  I  know  you,  Smith,"  he  said.  "You're  the  guv  that's 
all  the  time  being  mistaken  for  Michael  Dorian." 


Searching  For  "Beauty  And  The  Boss" 


Readers  going  over  the  manuscripts  received  in  the  $2,000.00  PHOTOPLAY- Warner  Bros,  contest  to  find  a  story 
fitting  the  title  of  "Beauty  and  the  Boss,"  as  well  as  other  picture  story  material,  have  been  faced  with  a  gigantic  task, 
for  almost  10,000  manuscripts  from  amateur  story  writers  were  received  in  the  contest.  The  judging  is  going  ahead 
now  with  all  possible  haste,  and  the  above  picture  shows  readers  and  judges  engaged  on  this  big  job  in  PHOTO- 
PLAY'S New  York  office.  James  R.  Quirk,  editor  of  PHOTOPLAY  and  one  of  the  judges,  is  standing  in  the  center 
of  the  group.    Announcement  of  winners  will  be  made  as  soon  as  the  judging  is  finished,  which  will  be  in  time  for  the 

November  issue  of  PHOTOPLAY 


36 


CTAGE  TEN  at  Paramount's  Holly- 
^wood  studio.  The  huge  chains  you  see 
festooned  around  the  place  are  used  to 
shift  scenery  and  props  and  to  shackle 
actors  who  go  mad  and  bite  supervisors. 
That  mighty  door,  slightly   ajar,  is  em- 


ployed to  keep  stars  from  jumping  to  rival 
producers.  Oh  yes — in  the  foreground  is 
Mr.  Phillips  Holmes,  who  looks  relieved 
after  finishing  his  part  in  "The  American 
Tragedy"  and  escaping  the  onslaughts  of 
Author  Dreiser 

37 


Here  it  is — the  new  type!    Marlene 
Dietrich's  lack-lustre  eyes  say  every- 
thing to  be  said 


And  Tallulah  Bankhead's 

style    whets    sharply    the 

imagination 


While  Garbo  is  the  symbol  of  every- 
thing  mysterious   in   woman.     She 
started  it 


Charm?  No!  No!  You 


THE  movies  have  done  it  again! 
They've  introduced  a  new  word  into  ordinary  con- 
versation,   started   a   new   fad,    begun    a    new    cycle, 
created  a  new  standard. 

The  movies  are  good  at  that. 

The  new  word  is  "glamour,"  the  new  fad  is  glamorousness, 
the  new  cycle  is  more  glamour  and  the  new  standard  is  more 
of  the  same  thing. 

The  ingenue  with  her  friendly,  hurt  smile,  her  bird-like 
gestures,  her  coy  maidenliness  is  as  old-fashioned  as  a  hansom 
cab.     In  a  word,  if  you  want  to  be  popular — be  glamorous. 

For  years  the  Elinor  Glyns  and 
Beatrice  Fairfaxes  have  been  writing 
about  charm.  They've  told  young 
women  with  social  ambitions  that  that 
vague  quality  was  essential.  But  the 
word  has  now  been  passed  into  the 
limbo  of  forgotten  things.  The  new 
one,  the  all-consuming  word  of  the 
moment,  is  "glamour." 

If  you  don't  believe  me  (and  you 
wouldn't  be  the  first),  take  a  look  at 
the  present  roster  of  film  stars.  Take 
a  couple  of  looks — they're  worth  it. 
Marlene  Dietrich,  of  the  heavy-lidded, 
inscrutable  eyes,  the  sullen  mouth. 
Garbo  (who  really,  I  believe,  started 
it  all),  of  the  languorous,  pale  body. 
Tallulah  Bankhead,  also  heavy  lidded, 
also  inscrutable.  Joan  Crawford,  the 
exponent  of  the  neurotic  younger  gen- 
eration. Constance  Bennett,  long 
limbed  and  fluid,  a  woman  to  pique 
the  imagination.  Lilyan  Tashman, 
decked  in  sophistication  and  Paris 
gowns.  Elissa  Landi,  mysterious  as  a 
supervisor's  idea.  And  the  very  new 
one — Lil  Dagover,  a  rapturous  beauty 
who  came  to  American  before  her  time, 
was  sent  back  and  now  returns  to 
spread  glamour.  And  many,  many 
more  come  to  mind — but  I'm  running 
out  of  adjectives. 

Although  the  new  school  has  been 
gathering  momentum  for  some  time, 


The  once  po 

straight,  direct 

Example, 


Paramount  really  fired  the  first  shot  when  they  dropped  from 
their  contract  list  Mary  Brian,  Jean  Arthur  and  Fay  Wray.  Now 
here  were  three  charming,  sweet,  whimsical  little  girls  who, 
so  everybody  thought,  had  a  good  sized  fan  following.  But, 
according  to  statistics,  they  simply  didn't  draw  at  the  old 
box-office. 

The  glamour  gals  were  beating  them  hands  (and  eyelashes) 
down. 

These  girls  were  the  exponents  of  the  charm  school.     Charm 
simply  oozed — but  they  had  no  glamour. 

But  Mary  Brian  is  being  smart.  After  some  futile  little  girl 
tears,  when  she  was  told  her  name  was 
to  be  struck  from  the  list,  she  packed 
her  trunks  and  left  Hollywood  for  her 
first  European  trip.  She  went  in  search 
of  sophistication. 

After  six  years  of  "the  little  girl  who 
lives  next  door"  roles,  she's  out  to  be- 
come a  woman  capable  of  stealing  the 
husband  of  the  little  woman  who  lives 
next  door. 

Mary,  for  six  years  a  good  draw, 
suddenly  found  herself,  like  a  number 
of  others,  one  of  that  vast  horde  of  dis- 
appearing ingenues  for  which  you,  you 
and  you  have  no  use. 


WHAT  brought  about  the  drastic 
change?  Your  guess  is  as  good  as 
mine. 

It  all  goes  in  cycles  anyhow.  Re- 
member the  Theda  Baras,  the  Nita 
Naldis,  the  Virginia  Pearsons,  the 
Louise  Glaums? 

For  them  "vamp"  was  coined. 
"Glamour"  has  now  been  introduced 
into  the  average  vocabulary.  Their 
kingdoms  toppled  when  Sweetness  and 
Light  showed  through. 

For  years  the  nice  girl  had  her  day. 
Her  screen  path  was  clear.  She  must 
neither  drink,  nor  smoke.  She  must 
be  chaste,  nay  almost  prudish.  She 
must  be  kind  to  old  ladies,  children 
and  stray  cats.     Her  clothes  must  be 


pular  vamp  — 
but  never  subtle. 
Theda  Bara 


The  Mary  Pickford  of  long  ago  ex- 
emplified girlish  charm.    Now  that's 
too  tame 


Mary  Brian  says  she  will 

never  look  like  this  again 

and  she  means  it 


Young,  pretty,  nice  Jean  Arthur.  But 

the  fans  demand  something  different. 

Can  she  give  it? 


Must  Have  GLAMOUR 


neat  but  not  gaudy.  And  the  only 
appeal  admitted  was  that  vague, 
spiritual  quality  that  does  things 
to  man's  Better  Nature. 

But  now — whoops — the  new  brigade.  Why,  the  Dietrichs, 
the  Garbos,  the  Bankheads,  the  Landis  (and  have  you  noted 
that  they're  all  blonde,  which  was  formerly  virtue's  symbol) 
may  kick  old  ladies  in  the  face  and  tie  tin  cans  to  dogs'  tails. 
They  may  steal  other  women's  husbands  and  bathe  in  cham- 
pagne— and  the  fans  love  it. 

These  women  possess  the  new  and  vital  commodity— glamour! 


By  Katherine  Albert 


Norma  Shearer  is  the  outstand- 
ing example  of  cultivated  glamour. 
Think  way,  way  back  to  the  Norma 
who  was.  I  remember  years  ago 
when  I  worked  in  her  studio,  there  was  a  story  under 
consideration  for  little  Shearer.  It  was  finally,  I  believe, 
called  "The  Devil's  Circus."  And  the  climax  was — I  hope 
I'm  still  right — the  seduction  of  the  girl  in  the  story. 

Well,  they  pondered  for  weeks.  Could  they  allow  that  rare 
exponent  of  girlish  charm  and  simplicity,  Norma  Shearer,  one 
teeny,  weeny  [  please  turn  to  pace  100  j 


Can 

This 

Be 

The 
Same 
Girl? 


Norma  Shearer,  classic  example  of  a  woman  who  follows  the  personality  trend.    When 

all  was  sweet  and  pure  Norma  was  the  young  lady  at  the  left.     Came  glamour,  and  wise 

Shearer  changed  her  style.    At  right  as  she  was  in  "The  Divorcee" 


39 


Bancroft's  boorish- 
ness  was  just  a  de- 
fense against  contract 
troubles  and  folks 
who  abused  his  good 
nature  and  friendship 


George 

Comes  To 

Earth 


"Good  Old  George,"  Hollywood  called  him  but  they  curled 

their  lips  when  they  said  it.    Now  they  cheer  him  as  a  good 

pal  and  his  old  friends  are  back 


By  Harry   Lang 


IT  seems  George  Bancroft  has  come  back  to  earth.  He's 
working  on  the  Paramount  lot  withoat  appearing  to  try  to 
boss  the  director  around.  Of  course,  he's  getting  $100,000 
a  picture  for  it — and  maybe  that's  got  something  to  do 
with  it. 

But  what's  more,  he  seems  to  be  recovering  some  of  that 
geniality  that  made  him  so  popular  at  the  outset  of  his  meteoric 
screen  career — and  once  more,  the  people  in  Hollywood  are 
beginning  to  call  him  "good  old  George"  without  curling  their 
lips  when  they  say  it. 

In  short,  George  Bancroft  seems  to  be  settling  down  once 
more  to  being  a  regular  guy,  and  turning  his  back  on  all  that 
highhattedness  and  aloofness  that  caused  Photoplay  to  ask,  in 
an  article  last  fall,  "Just  what's  biting  George  Bancroft,  any- 
way?" 

Remember  that  time?  Remember  how  George  suddenly 
developed  into  "the  hermit  of  Santa  Monica  Beach,"  snubbing 
the  people  who  helped  him  get  his  start  in  pictures  from  the 
$250-a-week  days?  Remember  how  he  locked  himself  up  in  his 
beach  house,  behind  specially-built  fences,  ignoring  letters, 
telegrams,  telephone  calls  and  personal  callers — friends  or  busi- 
ness associates  or  strangers  alike?  Remember  how  he  walked 
out  on  Paramount  officials,  left  them  holding  the  bag  while  his 
contract  expired  and  he  wouldn't  talk  business? 

Well — that's  all  over  now.  George  came  back  with  a  demand 
for  $120,000  a  picture,  as  compared  with  the  $5,000  a  week  he 
had  been  getting  on  the  old  contract.  Paramount  countered 
with  an  offer  of  $80,000  a  picture.  They  hemmed  and  hawed  a 
while,  and  now  they've  settled  on  $100,000  a  picture — a  fifty- 
fifty  compromise.  Bancroft  is  satisfied,  Paramount  seems 
satisfied — and  George,  once  more,  is  genial  and  winning  back 
his  old  friends. 

40 


"But  what  was  it  all  about,  George?"  Photoplay  asked  him 
the  other  day.  "  Why  did  you  go  high-hat?  Why  did  you  run 
out  on  Paramount?  Why  did  you  do  the  things  that  got  your 
old  friends  actually  to  hating  you  and  calling  you  four-syllable 
names?  What,  as  Photoplay  asked  last  fall,  was  biting  you, 
anyway?" 

And  here's  the  answer — here's  Bancroft's  side  of  the  picture: 

"I  just  got  off  on  the  wrong  foot,  I  guess.  I  wasn't  trying  to 
high-hat  people.  I  wasn't  trying  to  snub  my  friends,  I  didn't 
realize  or  know  that  they  felt  I  was. 

"I  like  people.  I  like  people  too  well,  I  guess.  So, 'when  I 
first  began  making  big  money  and  bought  that  house  down  at 
the  beach,  I  didn't  take  things  sanely.  My  friends — the  very 
ones  who  got  mad  later — warned  me.  '  George,'  they  said,  'look 
out  with  that  beach  house.  You've  got  to  be  careful  whom  you 
let  in.' 

"  W  /"ELli,  I  couldn't  seem  to  draw  any  line  like  that.  And 
W  before  I  knew  it,  why,  I  was  running  a  free  beach  club. 
They'd  come  in  at  all  hours  of  the  day  or  night — hordes  of  them, 
friends  and  strangers  alike.  People  I  know  would  come  and 
bring  a  party  of  friends.  It  got  so  that  when  I  wanted  to  go 
home  and  rest  after  a  hard,  trying  day  at  the  studio,  I  had  no 
home.  All  I  had  was  a  public  beach  club.  When  they  started 
squirting  seltzer- water  on  the  walls  because  they  thought  it  was 
fun  to  make  waterfalls,  I  kind  of  got  sick  and  tired  of  it." 

That  was  about  the  time  George's  troubles  with  Paramount 
began,  too.  So  suddenly,  George's  house  stopped  being  a  free 
club.  The  front  door  was  locked.  No  telegrams  or  'phone  calls 
were  answered.  Doorbell  ringing  got  no  response.  Yet  George 
was  there. 

Word  was  officially  sent  out    [  please  turn  to  page  115  J 


Watch     for     these     Fall     Trends 


in     N 
Pictu 


e  w 


re  s 


F  you  want  a  good  pre- 
view of  what  you  will 
be  wearing  this  Fall,  I  sug- 
gest that  you  see  some  of 
the  new  pictures.  I  find 
them  full  of  good  tips. 

The  studio  designers 
have  to  be  ahead  of  the 
seasons,  you  know.  When 
it's  Summer  to  you,  it's  just 
another  Fall  to  them! 

The  biggest  news  in 
fashion  is  the  new  hats. 
Have  you  seen  them?They 
out-revival  anything  in  re- 
cent years.  You  wear  them 
pulled  down  overone  eye. 
They  are  the  1880s  gone 
modern  —  derby  effects, 
feathers  and  all. 

Width  has  gone  to  the 
top  of  clothes.  The  idea  is 
to  look  broad-shouldered 
and  slim-waisted.  Evening 
things  <are  still  long  enough 
to  make  you  feel  as  glam- 
ourous as  Garbo. 


I  ORETTA  YOUNG  picks  this  as  a  first  costume  for  Fall— I  second 
L_  her  choice.  Paris  calls  this  type  of  thing  the  "Cinema"  suit. 
Appropriate,  isn't  it?  It  is  so  called  because  it  goes  many  places  of  an 
evening  without  ever  feeling  out  of  place.  I  call  it  charming.  First, 
because  it  uses  that  very  smart  fabric,  satin.  Because  its  sleek  black 
jacket  reveals  a  low-backed,  sleeveless  frock  when  removed.  Because 
its -silhouette  is  new — even  to  the  straightness  of  the  skirt  which  only 
flares  slightly  at  the  hem. 


Seymour     Finds     Typical      Schoo 


MAYBE  you're  all  out  to  get  scholarships  or  some 
such  things  this  year — but  I'll  bet  those  school 
parties  loom  up  pretty  big  in  your  plans.  Connie 
Bennett  wears  a  dream  of  an  eggshell  taffeta  evening 
frock  that  will  make  hearts  flutter.  Taffeta  is  always  smart 
for  young  things,  it  has  that  party  look.  Connies  is 
moulded  by  tucking  through  the  hips  but  has  a  wide 
flounce  below.  The  bead  trimming,  just  seen  in  front, 
follows  the  deep  U  at  the  back.  Worn  in  "Bought." 


YOU  can't  go  fashionably  wrong  very  often  on  anything  that  Bennett 
girl  wears.  Here's  a  grand  idea  for  that  velvet  evening  frock  you 
must  have.  It's  quite  sophisticated  but  its  perfect  simplicity  keeps  it 
from  being  too  affected  for  youthful  taste.  It  is  black  transparent  velvet 
unadorned.    The  length  is  excellent.    Also  to  be  seen  in  "Bought." 


Fashions     for    F  a  I      on    the    Scree 


n 


r YLVIA  SIDNEY  wears 
0  this  suit  in  "An  Ameri- 
can Tragedy."'  It  is  perfect 
for  travel  and  for  wear  all 
through  the  Fall  and  Win- 
ter term.  Brown  and  white 
sharkskin  woolen  is  trimly 
tailored.  The  arrangement 
of  the  plaid  scarf  is  unique. 


THE  only  possible  recompense  for  having  vacations 
end  is  to  look  forward  to  that  nice  clothes-buying 
orgy  that  precedes  school  openings!  So  many  of  the 
fashions  worn  by  the  young  stars  seem  to  fit  the  school 
picture  that  I  have  picked  a  few  of  them  for  you  here. 
You  can  see  them  in  new  pictures  and  then  guide  your 
own  selections  by  them.  They're  wearable. 


BROWN  is  a  grand  Fall  color  in  clothes,  accessories 
— and  in  lingerie  as  shown  here.  The  coat  of  this 
pyjama  ensemble  is  brown  satin,  the  pyjamas  are  peach 
color.  Nice  combination.  That  contrasting  collar  with 
the  trick  monogram  is  smart,  isn't  it?  Worn  by  Madge 
Evans  in  "Guilty  Hands." 


Here   s     what     Paris     Designs 
for     the     Stars 


A  SPORTS  suit  with  French  dressing!  Mile.  Chanel 
designed  this  beige  wool  model  for  Barbara 
Weeks  to  wear  in  "Palmy  Days."  Rather  a  short 
skirt,  but  the  famous  French  designer  likes  em  that 
way  for  sports.  The  jacket  buttons  over  a  white  silk 
sweater — the  collar  and  cuffs  are  pique. 


THE  question  of  whether  a  Paris 
designer  can  hit  the  right  fashion 
tempo  for  the  screen  should  soon  be 
settled.  The  first  models  that  Chanel 
is  doing  for  the  screen  are  arriving 
from  Paris.  Two  of  them  I  have  picked 
out  for  you  to  see  here. 


HERE'S  Chanel's  idea  of  a  short 
dinner  jacket.  Not  spectacular 
but  nevertheless  smart.  White  satin 
with  dark  fur.  The  bag  is  by  the  same 
designer,  too. 


"Not  expecting  too  much 
from  life  is  good  business. 
Establish  a  reputation  for 
fair  play  at  one  place  and 
you  get  more  money  at  the 
next" 


"Don't 
Expect 


T 


oo 


Much 


"Don't  give  up  one  job 
unless  you  have  another. 
If  you  can't  put  up  with 
unfavorable  conditions  in 
one  job,  you  don't  deserve 
another" 


MARY  PICKFORD  has  told 
us  through  Photoplay  how 
to  face  forty  gracefully.  We 
said  there  was  news  in  her 
statements  because  facing  forty — 
knowing  how  to  accept  maturity  and 
confront  old  age — was  a  difficult 
struggle  for  woman. 

Marie  Dressier  has  completed  the  cycle  Mary  is  entering. 
She  has  accepted  old  age;  furthermore,  she  has  made  her 
greatest  success  in  it. 

What  she  says  is  news  for  men  and  women  and  young  folk. 
The  foundations  for  old  age  are  laid  in  our  younger  days. 
That  is  the  time  to  start  building  our  mental  picture.  Who 
of  us  would  not  like  to  be  a  Marie  Dressier  at  sixty? 

Marie's  recipe  for  life  is  simple:  ''Don't  expect  too  much 
of  it!" 

A  paper  recently  printed  that 
her  salary  has  reached  the  S5,000 
a  week  figure.  No  one  was  more 
surprised  to  read  this  than  Marie 
Dressier. 

Her  contractual  income,  today, 
is  exactly  what  it  was  when  she 
made  "The  Callahans  and  the 
Murphys,"  the  picture  which 
brought  her  back  into  the  movies. 
It  is  $2,000. 


TRUE,  she  has  received  an  offer 
to  go  into  vaudeville  at  S10.000 
and  one  studio  has  made  an  effort, 
we  understand,  to  purchase  her 
contract  from  Metro  and  give  her 
S12.000.  But  to  date,  Marie  has 
not  asked  more  than  the  $2,000 
for  which  she  signed  in  the  begin- 
ning. 

Why? — Doesn't  she  appreciate 
the  drawing-power  of  her  person- 
ality at   the  box-office? 

Certainly.  Marie  has  dozens 
of  letters  from  theater  exhibitors 
telling  her  that  her  name  over 
their  doors  guarantees  a  capacity 
audience.  She  has  read  them 
over  and  over.  She  has  read  the 
glowing  reviews  of  "Min  and  Bill" 
from  London;  the  reports  of  the 
splendid  business  it  is  doing  across 
the  waters.  Like  all  sincerely  suc- 
cessful people,  she  gloats  over 
praise  and  appreciates  its  value. 


— and  you'll  be  hap- 
pier," Marie  Dressier 
said  to  Jeanne  North 


Marie  in  "Tillie,  the  Scrub  Lady,"  which 
was  made  about  fifteen  years  ago 


She  knows  she  could  demand  one  of 
the  largest  weekly  salaries  in  Holly- 
wood and  get  it. 

Her    reason    for   adhering    to    her 
contract — made  when  her  name  was 
not  a  guaranteed  picture  success  but 
a  gamble — dates  back  about  thirty- 
five  years. 
Marie  signed  with  a  manager  for  NS150  a  week  to  play  the 
comedy  role  in  "The  Lady  Slavey."    The  day  after  it  opened, 
she  was  the  toast  of  New  York. 

In  one  night  she  had  risen  from  an  obscure  unknown  to  a 
celebrity. 

She  made  many  discoveries  at  this  time.  For  example,  she 
learned  that  a  homely  girl  may  be  as  popular  as  a  beautiful 
one  if  she  is  more  famous;  that  she  may  even  be  offered  as 

many  diamonds,  fur  coats  and 
apartments.  Yet  with  all  t  h  ■ 
men  who  were  laying  hypothetical 
fortunes  at  her  feet,  she  noticed 
one  man  avoided  her.  Her  man- 
ager. 

ONE  evening,  when  the  show 
had  been  running  for  several 
weeks,  this  man  George  Lederer, 
by  name — appeared  in  her  dress 
ing-room  and  remarked  casually: 
"Marie,  you  are  a  funny  actress." 

"Thank  you;  I  hope  I  am!" 
After  all,  her  new  found  fame 
depended  upon  her  being  funny. 

"Aren't  you  goinf;  to  kick? 
I've  been  waiting  for  you  to 
come    to   me." 

"For  what?" 

"A  raise  in  salary." 

"Mr.  Lederer,  I  signed  with 
you  for  the  run  of  the  play  at $150 
a  week.  I  expect  no  more  than 
you  promised." 

George  Lederer  was  dumb- 
founded; he  showed  it.  Finally 
he  grunted.  "You  did,  did  you? 
Well,  it's  three  hundred  from  this 
moment." 

This  was  Marie's  first  raise  and 
she  had  a  sneaking  suspicion  that 
had  she  asked  for  it  she  would 
have  received  a  possible  fifty 
dollars  extra. 

The  other  day.  Louis  B.  Mayer 

Sent     [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  117  \ 

i  a 


JOHN  GILBERT  is  in  love  again  and  admits 
it.  The  lady  this  time  is  Princess  Liliuo- 
kalani  of  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  If  America 
hadn't  bought  her  birthplace  she  would  be  the 
sister  of  the  King  of  the  Islands. 

The  Princess,  who  is  quite  good  looking, 
came  to  Hollywood  with  other  royal  princesses 
and  has  been  entertained  by  Hollywood's  elite, 
including  Queen  Mary  Pickford. 

Jack  is  so  serious  that  when  she  has  to  go 
somewhere  without  him,  he  is  inconsolable. 
Incidentally,  he  is  reported  to  have  said  he  is 
going  to  the  Islands  the  moment  she  returns, 
unless  Metro  holds  him  for  a  picture  and  then 
he's  going  the  moment  it  is  finished. 

TACK'S  attitude  toward  Ina  Claire  has  been 
that  he  was  willing  to  stay  married  to  her  but 
separated,  since  this  arrangement  protected 
him  from  another  hasty  wedding.  And  then, 
suddenly,  surprising  everybody,  Ina  Claire  filed 
suit  for  divorce,  charging  Jack  with  cruelty  and 
neglect. 

Ina  says  that  Jack  made  jibes  at  her,  com- 
plaining that  she  had  "too  much  intellect." 

And  that  when  she  returned  to  Hollywood 
from  New  York,  there  was  no  husband  to  meet 
her  at  the  train.  This  was  no  news  to  you,  for 
Photoplay  told  you  all  about  that  long  ago. 
So  another  Hollywood  romance  has  officially 
ended  and  Jack  may  propose  to  the  princess  if 
he  likes. 


First  it  was  Mary  Pickford  who 
was  made  a  colonel.  Then  it  was 
Bebe  Daniels.  Now  even  Pete, 
Our  Gang  comedies'  bow-bow,  has 
gone  military  on  us,  having  been 
made  mascot  of  Hollywood's 
American  Legion  post 

46 


Boy,  fetch  a  garland  of  lotus  blooms  and  start  the  soft  plunking  of  the 
ukuleles,  while  we  present  Princess  Liliuokalani,  a  Polynesian  pearl 
from  Hawaii  who  is  Jack  Gilbert's  present  love.  She  is  on  the  left,  be- 
side her  sister,  Princess  Kawananako.  "I  just  had  to  have  a  change 
from  these  Hollywood  blondes,"  said  old  Trader  Gilbert 


C  a  1  Yo  r  k 


WHEN  a  friend  spoke  to  Jack  about  the 
Princess,  Jack  said,  "  She  is  a  great  girl. 
I  am  so  tired  of  the  stereotyped  Hollywood 
blondes." 

GRETA  GARBO  is  driving  the 
same  car  she  bought  after  her 
first  hit  in  pictures.  It  is  four  years 
old  and  the  only  car  she  owns.  A 
colored  chauffeur  drives  it.  Greta  has 
but  one  housekeeper  for  her  home. 
In  all — two  servants.  Modest  Greta. 
Incidentally — wealthy  Greta! 

RUDY  VALLEE'S  new  wife,  "a  simple  home 
girl,"  he  called  her  when  she  appeared  in 
diamonds  and  orchids,  was  the  former  Fay 
Webb.  Maybe  you  remember  her — or  maybe 
you  don't.  But  ask  any  of  the  old  guard  out  at 
the  M-G-M  studios. 
She  is  the  daughter  of  the  Santa  Monica 


chief  of  police  and  she  was  given  a  studio  con- 
tract because,  or  so  they  said,  one  of  the  studio 
executives  lived  in  Santa  Monica.  The  studio 
boys  used  to  go  sixty  miles  an  hour  through  the 
beach  town  and  if  they  got  picked  up  by  a  cop 
all  they  had  to  say  was,  "Why,  I  work  at 
M-G-M  where  Fay  Webb  is  under  contract." 
The  contract  didn't  mean  much.  Fay  tried 
hard  enough.  She  begged  enough  directors  for 
good  parts,  but  only  extra  work  and  bits  fell 
her  way.  So  she  occupied  her  time  by  posing, 
with  doo-dads  hanging  from  her  garters,  and 
rings — well,  almost — in  her  nose,  for  the  pub- 
licity department.  If  all  the  semi-nude 
photographs  taken  of  Fay  Webb  in  the  name 
of  publicity  were  laid  end  to  end  they'd  three 
times  encircle  Vallee's  radio  network. 


AND  then  people  sort  of  forgot  about  Fay. 
When  suddenly — lookee!  lookee! — there's 
her  picture  in  the  paper  again  and  she's  mar- 


The  King  and  Queen  of  Siam  (and  regular  folks,  they  say)  were  visitors 
at  Paramount's  Long  Island  studios,  where  the  king  had  further  oppor- 
tunity to  indulge  his  hobby  of  moving  picture  photography.  He  owns 
over  20  cameras.  He  is  shown  inspecting  a  modern  sound  camera  with 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Adolph  Zukor 


The  Monthly  Broadcast 


of 


Hollywood 
Goings-  On/ 


ried  Rudy  Vallee.  And  will  the  girls  who  love 
Rudy  be  sore?  You  bet.  And  was  the  press 
sore  when  Rudy  waved  the  reporters  aside  and 
said,  "  Not  a  word — not  a  word  at  this  time.  I 
shall  give  out  a  statement  and  pose  for  photo- 
graphs tomorrow!''  And  did  the  astrologers 
say  that  the  stars  foretold  plenty  turmoil  for 
Rudy  and  his  bride?    They  did. 

The  next  day  came  an  announcement  that 
the  pair  would  be  separated  for  the  winter. 
Fay,  it  seems,  has  had  pneumonia  once  and 
New  York  winds  are  too  chilly  for  her.  What 
with  Rudy  not  wanting  to  deny  his  public  a 
single  teency-weency  note  from  his  famous 
larynx,  why  there's  nothing  to  do  but  for  Fay 
to  go  to  California  while  Rudy  stays  in  New 
York.  So  Vallee  told  the  boys  and  girls  all 
about  it  now,  just  in  case  the  nasty  mean 
reporters  rumor  a  separation  when  the  winter 
comes.    Always  cautious — that's  Vallee. 

But  there  was  a  tragic  ending  to  their  honey- 


moon.   Rudy  had  to  leave  Atlantic  City  to  go 
to  his  mother's  bedside.    She  died  the  next  day. 

TRY  to  kid  Marie  Dressier!  Just 
try  it! 

One  wisenheimer  made  the  attempt 
the  other  day.  He  clipped  from  a 
newspaper  an  ad  for  a  new  cream  to 
remove  wrinkles,  sent  it  by  messenger 
to  Marie,  at  lunch  on  the  M-G-M  lot. 

"Thanks,"  Marie  scrawled  back  a 
note,  "but  it  took  me  a  long  time  to 
get  these  wrinkles,  and  now  that 
they're  earning  me  never-mind-how- 
much,  why  should  I  bite  the  wrinkle 
that  feeds  me?" 

TRUST  Constance  Bennett  to  do  the  sensa- 
tional. Of  course,  everybody  knew  she  and 
Gloria  Swanson's  ex-husband,  Hank,  the 
Marquis,  were  in  love.    Then  along  came  Joel 


McCrea  and  it  seemed  as  if  lie  might  be 
Connie's  bit;  moment.  When  all  of  a  sudden — 
fptt! — Connie  and  the  Marquis  arrive  in  New 
York  on  the  same  train  and,  it  is  found,  ha\e 
booked  passage  on  the  same  boat  for  Europe. 
That's  a  little  startling,  wot?  And  the  pay- 
off is  that,  when  questioned  about  a  wedding, 
neither  would  admit  a  thing.  Connie  insists 
that  it  isn't  nice  to  talk  about  marriage  with  a 
man  whose  divorce  isn't  final  until  October, 
while  the  Marquis  says  his  romance  with  the 
eldest  Bennett  has  been  going  on  for  two  and  a 
half  years  and  they're  very  devoted. 

However,  one  of  the.  Xew  York  tabloids 
claims  that  the  low  down  is  Connie  and  Hank 
will  be  married  in  Xew  York  the  day  after  his 
decree  is  final,  after  they  visit  his  parents  in 
Europe,  after  they  return  to  America  in  mid- 
August,  after  they  go  to  Hollywood  where 
Connie  will  make  two  pictures.  After  that — 
they'll  be  married,  at  least  that's  what  the 
report  says. 


Isn't  this  an  attractive  costume  for 
an  usherette?  Well,  Patricia  Fair, 
who  is  wearing  it,  was  a  real 
usherette  in  Paramount's  Los 
Angeles  theater  until  studio  offi- 
cials saw  her.  Then  she  was 
signed  to  a  contract 


Love!    Marriage!    Divorce!    Laughter!   Tears! 


"Yes,  he  is  my  Vagabond  Lover,"  said  Fay  Webb,  and  "Yes,  she  is  my 
Dream  Girl,"  said  Rudy  Vallee  in  a  practically  exclusive  statement  to 
PHOTOPLAY  in  the  New  York  NBC  studios  the  day  after  their  marriage, 
for  there  were  only  200  photographers,  55  reporters  and  3  radio  broad- 
casters present  beside  us.    Now  go  easy  on  her,  girls 


Herr  Rudolph  Sieber,  as  he  arrived 
in  New  York,  Hollywood-bound  to 
rejoin  his  wife  Marlene  Dietrich. 
Herr  Sieber  has  directed  pictures 
in  Germany.  It  is  his  first  visit  to 
America,  but  no  Hollywood  recep- 
tion committee  awaited  him 


'  I  \VO  new  recruits  were  signed  for  pictures 
■*-  from  the  chorus  of  a  New  York  musical 
show.  They  were  green  as  turtle  soup  but  had 
ideas  that  they'd  better  put  on  a  little  dog. 
They  went  to  Del  Monte  for  the  week  end. 
Neither  of  them  had  ever  been  on  a  horse  but 
everybody  rode  there,  so  they  bought  swanky 
riding  outfits  and  went  to  the  stables. 

The  groom  asked  them  what  sort  of  a  saddle 
they  wanted. 

The  blonde  said,  "What  kind  of  saddles  have 
you?'' 

"We  have  the  English  and  McClellan,"  the 
groom  replied. 

''What's  the  difference?"  they  asked. 

"The  McClellan  has  a  horn  and  the  English 
hasn't." 

"Well,  we'll  take  the  English,"  they  said. 
"We  don't  intend  to  ride  in  traffic!" 

\A  ICKEY  MOUSE'S  voice  will  be 
-1»-1-O.K.  again,  now.  It  was  oper- 
ated on,  the  other  day,  believe  it  or 
not. 

You  see,  Mickey's  voice  really  be- 
longs to  Walt  Disney.  Disney  is  the 
lad  who  did  the  talking  that  comes 
from  the  screen  when  you  see 
Mickey's  beak  waggle.  But  the 
strain  of  squeaking  in  mickeyish  man- 
ner so  affected  Disney's  throat  that 
an  operation  was  necessary. 

VWHEN  Marlene  Dietrich's  husband, 
W  Rudolf  Sieber,  arrived  in  New  York 
enroute  to  Hollywood  to  spend  a  few  weeks 
with  his  family,  his  newspaper  interviews 
didn't  do  Marlene  much  good. 

"Marlene  is  a  great  cook,  and  how  she  can 
mix  up  a  dish  of  cicrkuchcn,"  he  said. 

48 


Now  who  wants  to  think  of  our  glamorous 
Dietrich  bending  over  a  hot  stove  stirring  a 
dish  of  er-er — that  German  dish  we  mentioned 
before?  Investigation  shows  that  it  is  a  sort  of 
omelet. 

T^HERE  are  several  versions  of  Herr  Sieber's 
-*-  arrival. 

One  is  that  it  was  a  surprise  visit,  and  Mar- 
lene was  not  only  surprised,  but  mildly  an- 
noyed. 

Another  is  that  Marlene  had  told  Sieber, 
who  has  been  mixed  up  in  theatrical  and  mov- 
ing picture  production  in  Germany,  how  easy 
the  pickings  were  here,  and  that  he  is  after 
some  of  them. 

And  still  another  is  that  Marlene  is  going  to 
stay  in  this  country  permanently  and  cabled 
her  husband  to  come  on  over. 

Anyhow,  Ilcrr  Sieber  is  here  and  will  now 
begin  to  know  what  it  feels  like  to  be  Mr. 
Marlene  Dietrich. 

CRACK  by  Polly  Moran: 
She  and  friends  were  viewing 
the  lights  of  Hollywood,  one  summer 
night  recently,  from  a  vantage  point 
on  a  Beverly  Hills  hill.  The  whole 
city  lay  gleaming  with  millions  of 
varicolored  electric  fights  below  them. 

"Gosh,   ain't  it  swell?"  muttered 
one  of  the  party. 

"Uh  huh,"  uhuhed  Polly,  "looks 
just  like  Peggy  Joyce's  chest." 

"p\OUGLAS  FAIRBANKS  threw  a  couple  of 
-•—^verbal  bombs  when  he  spoke  right  out  in 
meeting  to  the  effect  that  he  "did  not  intend  to 
make  any  more  motion  pictures  based  on 
fiction,  plays  or  novels."    But  he  isn't  through 


with  pictures.  Right  now  he  has  under  way  a 
film  shot  during  his  recent  travels  which,  if  it 
proves  successful,  will  guide  him  in  his  future 
releases.  You'll  see  him  hunting  game  in 
India,  playing  golf  in  China,  chatting  with  the 
Siamese  and  things  like  that.  But  he'll  be  him- 
self and  not  a  movie  hero. 

WELL,  what  do  you  make  of  that  and 
where  does  Mary  Pickford  come  in?  Will 
she  sit  at  home  while  Doug  is  doing  the 
travelogues?  Mary,  not  long  ago,  said  she 
thought  herself  capable  of  holding  down  a  job  as 
story  expert  at  any  studios.  She  says  she  believes 
she  knows  what  is  suitable  for  the  screen  and 
what  isn't.  She  should — for  she's  had  enough 
trouble  picking  her  own  pictures,  recently. 

And  no  issue  of  Photoplay  would  be  com- 
plete without  a  word  telling  you  that  they're 
still  denying  rumors  of  a  separation! 

READING  a  dispatch  from  abroad 
telling  of  Gary  Cooper's  visit  to 
Vesuvius,  on  his  European  vacation 
tour,  Harrison  Carroll,  Hollywood 
columnist,  cracked: — "Well,  if  it's 
not  one  volcano  for  Gary,  it's  an- 
other." And  in  New  York,  Lupe  Velez 
was  going  places  with  Earl   Carroll! 

LEAVE  it  to  Pola  Negri — that  gal  hangs  on 
to  publicity  like  a  movie  mama  buttonholes 
a  casting  director.  Remember  all  the  front 
page  weeping  she  did  after  Valentino's  death? 
Now  she's  picked  on  Andrew  Mellon,  secretary 
of  the  treasury.  And,  busy  with  world  affairs, 
the  poor  man  probably  doesn't  know  he's  being 
favored. 

On  her  way  to  Hollywood,  Pola  stopped  off  in 
Washington,  D.  C,  to  settle  up  her  jumbled 


Hollywood  Life  is  Stranger  than  Pictures! 


You  just  can't  do  a  thing  with  that 
girl  Lupe  Velez.  Here's  that  cute 
little  Mexican  pepperpot  up  to 
tricks  again — giving  her  imitation 
of  Gloria  Swanson  which  simply 
panicked  vaudeville  audiences  on 
her  recent  tour.  Good,  isn't  it? 


Another  bride  of  the  month  was  Nancy  Carroll,  Paramount  star,  who 
quietly  married  Bolton  Mallory,  editor  of  LIFE,  immediately  after  her 
divorce  from  Jack  Kirkland  became  final.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mallory  are 
shown  in  an  exclusive  photo  posed  for  Photoplay.  Nancy  leaves  soon 
for  the  Coast,  but  hubby  may  have  to  stick  to  his  job  in  New  York 


income  tax  reports.  Mellon  helped  her  for 
several  days.  And  right  away  one  capital 
newspaper  correspondent  sent  out  the  story 
that  Negri  and  Mellon  were  to  be  married. 

Now  that  report  is  something  over  which 
Negri  has  no  control,  but  the  way  she  denied 
the  story  when  she  hit  Hollywood  left  a  ques- 
tion mark.  Oh,  yes,  she  denied  the  rumor  in 
words  but  there  was  a  choke  in  her  voice  and  a 
languorous  lilt  of  the  eyebrows.  Pola  never 
misses  a  bet. 

THE  answer  to  why  so  many  air- 
planes were  seen  hovering  over 
Dolores  Del  Rio's  house  was  because 
she  was  getting  natural  color  for  play- 
ing the  dark-skinned  Hawaiian  girl  in 
"Bird  of  Paradise"  by  taking  au 
natural  sunbaths  on  a  roof  porch. 

One  Hollywood  youth  was  reported 
trying  furiously  to  buy  an  autogiro. 

REMEMBER  last  month  we  told  you  that 
things  were  not  all  moonlight  and  roses  be- 
tween Billie  Dove  and  millionaire-boy-pro- 
ducer Howard  Hughes?  Billie  was  preparing 
to  star  in  Hughes'  super-production,  ''The  Age 
for  Love,"  when  production  was  postponed 
again  and  again  and  Hollywood  chattered.  It 
seems  that  Hughes  has  been  squiring  Lilian 
Bond  to  a  few  select  places.  And  that  made 
Billie  unhappy — so  unhappy,  in  fact,  that  her 
physician  feared  her  on  the  verge  of  a  nervous 
breakdown.  And  they  are  saying  that  Billie 
consistently  refused  to  report  for  work  at  the 
studio.  Also  Hughes — is  there  no  limit  to  the 
boy's  versatility? — has  a  decided  liking  for  un- 
sophisticated little  Dorothy  Jordan.  At  any 
rate  Don  Dillaway,  Dorothy's  steady,  has  a 
lost  soul  look  in  his  eye. 


D  EMEMBER  Katherine  MacDonald,  "the 
■^■American  beauty"  of  the  silent  films?  She 
is  now  the  center  of  ont  vi  the  most  sensational 
divorce  cases  in  months,  and  is  suing  her 
husband,  millionaire  Christian  R  Holmes,  on 
cruelty  charges. 

In  her  complaint  she  says  that  oj.c  night, 
after  calling  her  endearing  names,  he  began  to 
fire  a  revolver  at  her  and  again  he  shot  at  her 
through  a  door,  demanding  that  she  open  it. 
When  she  told  him  the  lock  had  jammed  he 
fired  once  more. 

In  Honolulu,  she  says,  he  once  walked  up  to 
her,  smiling  sweetly  and,  before  some  friends, 
deliberately  pressed  a  lighted  cigarette  against 
her  hand,  burning  the  flesh. 

On  one  other  occasion  he  smacked  her  over 
the  shins  with  a  walking  cane,  she  says. 

There's  an  eighteen-months-old  daughter, 
and  Katherine  is  seeking  the  custody  of  the 
child. 


M 


ORE    odgennashy    verse    from 

Hollywood : 

Uncle  Carl  Laemmle 

Has  a  very  large  faemmle. 

And 
Pretty  June  Collyer 
Is  a  cure  for  melancollyer. 


BILL  POWELL  got  peevish  at  reporters  on 
the  day  he  and  Carole  Lombard  visited  the 
Los  Angeles  city  hall  to  get  their  marriage 
license. 

Stopped  by  newspapermen,  Powell  remon- 
strated annoyedly: 

"Is  nothing  sacred  to  you  chaps?" 
So  they  went  ahead  and  printed  things  from 
the    license    application — for    instance,    that 
Powell  was  38  years  old. 


LI'L  Danny  Cupid's  Merry-Go-Round! 
Pauline  Starke  divorces  Hubby  Jack 
White,  film  producer  .  .  .  says  he  rejected  her 
advances  .  .  .  told  her  he  didn't  love  her  .  .  . 
said  he  was  her  mental  superior.  .  .  .  Lady 
June  Inverclyde  in  Reno  to  get  a  decree.  De- 
clines to  say  whether  or  not  she'll  marry  Lothar 
Mendes,  who  was  once  married  to  Dorothy 
Mackaill.  .  .  .  Inez  Withers,  ex-wife  of  Grant 
Withers,  current  but  not-working  husband  of 
Loretta  Young,  goes  into  court  to  ask  why 
Grant  didn't  pay  his  alimony.  .  .  .  They  say 
Grant  likes  Betty  Bronson  and  Loretta  may 
be  seen  almost  any  noon-time  sitting  in  the 
Brown  Derby  with  Ricardo  Cortez. 

A/fRS.  ERNST  LUBITSCH,  about  to  get 
■"■Mier  final  decree,  expected  to  wed  Hans 
Kraly,  a  writer  who  used  to  be  a  friend  of 
Lubitsch,  but  hasn't  been  since  the  two  fist- 
fought  at  the  Embassy  just  before  Mrs.  Ernst 
sued  for  freedom.  .  .  .  Ukelele  Ike,  Cliff 
Edwards,  wins  a  divorce  for  cruelty.  .  .  .  He's 
taking  Nancy  Dover  out  places.  .  .  .  Claudia 
Dell  wins  her  final  decree  of  divorce  from  Philip 
G.  Offin  .  .  .  says  she's  oflin  him  for  good.  .  .  . 
Josephine  Dunn,  recently  sued  for  divorce  by 
Hubby  Clyde  (Oil-Heir)  Greathouse  on  charges 
that  she  clawed  him  and  called  him  bad 
names,  files  a  cross  complaint  .  .  .  she  says 
that  in  their  four  months  of  marriage,  he 
bought  her  only  one  pair  of  hose  and  one 
jar  of  cold  cream  and  bawled  her  out  for  not 
getting  work  in  pictures.  .  .  .  Jack  Dempsey 
left  Reno  without  filing  suit  for  divorce.  But 
Estelle  Taylor  insists  it  shall  be  done.  .  .  . 
Jack  has  been  seen  places  with  blonde  Edna 
Murphy,  while  Estelle  seems  partial  to  Leslie 
Fenton  as  an  escort. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  78  ] 

2  A9 


T"\  AUGHTER  CONSTANCE  and  Papa  Richard  (both  Bennett)  go  over  the 
-^'script,  but  here's  what  father  is  really  saying:  "Well,  Connie,  I  always  knew 
you'd  get  there.  People  thought  you  wouldn't  amount  to  much  after  you  married 
that  millionaire  fellow,  Phil  Plant,  but  your  old  man  was  for  you.  I  always  said, 
'My  kid's  going  to  make  good.' ' 

And  if  you  call  $30,000  a  week  making  good— she  has.  Incidentally,  Photoplay 
gives  both  Connie  and  Richard  a  "best  performance"  this  month  in  their  latest 
picture/'Bought" 


50 


Lupe's  welcome  home — 
two  years  ago,  when  she 
and  Gary  Cooper  were 
Hollywood's  happiest, 
gayest  sweethearts. 
Lupe  had  been  on  an 
Eastern  tour,  and  Big 
Coop  had  been  pacing 
the  station  platform  for 
two  hours.  A  second 
after  this  was  snapped  — 
boy,  what  a  hug!  But 
alas  and  alackaday,  it 
isn't  like  this  now 


L 


ove 


On  The   Rocks 


THE  fortunes  of  war  have 
stamped  a  big  black  period  at 
the  end  of  one  of  Hollywood's 
maddest,  vividest  love  stories. 

This  is  the  last  chapter,  which  I've 
elected  myself  to  write.  And  it's  a 
lament  for  the  passing  of  one  of  the 
strangest,  weirdest,  most  oddly  ap- 
pealing little  hellions  that  ever  sent  a 
film  director  screaming  to  the  crazy- 
house. 

Oh,  Lupe  the  Whoopee  Yelez  is  still 
very  much  alive — I've  just  come  from  a  great  New  York  vaude- 
ville theater  where  I've  seen  her  cavorting  and  screeching  about 
the  stage  for  a  good  round  fee.  And  big  Gary  Cooper,  as  I  tap 
this  off  through  my  tears,  is  bending  those  blue  Montana  eyes 
on  the  moth-eaten  glories  of  the  Old  World. 

But  the  Lupe  I've  just  seen  is  no  more  the  howling  hot  tamale 
of  1929  than  I  am  the  angel-faced  choir  boy  of  1910,  and  if  you 
think  Gary  is  the  same  open-hearted  cow-gentleman  of  old, 
you're  wrong  again.  For  life,  in  all  its  mournful  madness  and 
essential  goofiness,  has  at  last  caught  up  with  the  two  kids 
whose  love  story  has  had  Hollywood  and  the  film  world  on  the 
guess  for  the  last  three  or  four  years. 

Caught  up  with  them,  yes — and  smacked  them  down  and 
then  passed  on,  snickering. 

The  big  love  thing,  which  burned  with  a  white  hot  flame  for 
years,  has  been  doused.  Lupe  and  Coop  have  grown  up  in  the 
inevitable  way — that  is,  by  finding  that  the  first  and  biggest 
love  can  turn  sour,  even  as  can  the  twenty-first. 

And  Lupe  can  kick  up  and  scream  for  years  to  come — but  it 
won't  be  with  the  fierce,  spontaneous  frenzy  that  made  her  at 
once  a  fascinating  phenomenon  and  a  public  pain  in  the  neck. 
And  Gary  can  save  a  thousand  blonde  heroines  from  a  fate 
worse  than  death — but  only  about  five-eighths  of  his  heart 
will  be  in  his  work. 

It's  tough,  mates,  but  that's  the  way  it  goes. 


Time  and  fate  write 
finis  to  a  hectic  love 
story — and  Lupe  and 
Gary  call  it  a  day — 
PERHAPS! 


IT'S  no  secret — -or  is  it? — that  the  Cooper  family  has  never 
been  exactly  hilarious  about  the  red-hot 
romance  of  Lupe  Velez  and  their  boy. 

The  Judge  and  his  wife  are  quiet,  digni- 
fied Montana  folks,  accustomed  to  a  placid 


By  Leonard  Hall 


life  and  a  sane  one — for  themselves 
and  for  the  long-legged  lad  who  came 
down  from  the  North,  debutted  in 
horse  opera  and  went  on  to  become  a 
famous  star  on  the  Paramount  rancho. 
It  is  probable  that  they'd  as  soon 
have  had  a  wild-eyed,  free-kicking 
mustang  around  the  house  as  the  leap- 
ing lass  from  Mexico,  for  all  her  tre- 
mendous appeal  and  truly  colossal  gen- 
erosity. 

The}'  no  doubt  felt   that  the  mere 

nervous  strain  of  association  with  such  an  untamed  fragment 

of  femininity  would  wear  down  big  Gary. 

And  it  is  also  probable  that  his  studio  rather  looked  down 

its  nose  at  the  romance,  and  that  the  bosses  would  as  soon  have 

had  him  tossing  matches  into  a  keg  of  black  powder.    For  Lupe 

was  mercurial,  to  put  it  mildly. 

BUT  they  fell  for  each  other  like  a  ton  of  pressed  brick — -they 
were  tremendously,  tempestuously  and  furiously  in  love,  and 
it  would  not  be  denied.  It  was  the  first  big  love  for  each,  and 
as  well  try  to  stop  the  Niagara  River  with  a  tennis  racket! 

It  was  the  talk  of  Hollywood!  They  were  always  together — 
this  big,  slow  boy  and  the  little  tan  ball  of  fire.  Were  they  en- 
gaged? Married?  The  world's  tongue  wagged — and  the  two 
kept  it  wagging  for  a  long  time. 

Lupe  was  the  cutest  thing  that  had  ever  crossed  Gary's 
range  of  vision.  Never  knew  what  she  was  going  to  do  next, 
never  a  dull  moment  with  Lupe  around.  And  Gary  was  beeecg, 
and  strrrrong,  and  very  gentle  and  very  kind.  Perfect  oppo- 
sites  made  a  perfect  attraction. 

Lupe's  home  was  like  no  other  in  the  jazz  history  of  the  film 
colony — a  mad  synthesis  of  Coney  Island,  a  Mexican  bull  ring 
and  feeding  time  at  the  zoo.  A  twenty-four  hour  fiesta  went 
on  week  in,  week  out. 

Dinner  was  announced  for  seven.     At  that  hour  Lupe  was 

turning  handsprings  for  her  guests,  and  the  helpless  butler 

was  chased  from  the  room.     At  eight,  nine,  ten  and  eleven  he 

was  fired  for  announcing  food,  which  had 

been  forgotten  entirely.      He  was  hired 

again  the  next  morning,  of  course. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  95  ] 
51 


PINK  HAWKINS  getting  mixed  up  with  a  woman,  or 
rather  with  two  women,  was  just  about  the  most  unusual 
thing  that  ever  happened  at  Cottonwood  Ranch.  And 
there's  been  a  heap  of  unusual  things  happening  around 
here  lately. 

It  wasn't  more  than  three  years  ago  when  we  were  just  a  poor 
paying  cattle  ranch.  Then  one  day  a  picture  company  from 
Hollywood  came  poking  in  to  ask  for  board  while  they  photo- 
graphed some  outdoor  scenes  for  a  Western  picture  and,  right 
then  and  there,  the  whole  shebang  went  movie.  By  letting 
everything  get  a  mite  untidier  and  installing  a  Mexican  and  a 
goat  corral,  my  place  was  known  to  the  companies  as  the  ideal 
location. 

I  didn't  change  my  hired  hands  any,  but  Pink  Hawkins  was 
the  only  one  of  the  hands  I  had  any  trouble  with.  That  lean, 
red-haired  youngster  was  shyer  than  a  coyote  as  far  as  picture 
folk  were  concerned.  Whenever  a  troupe  was  due  to  arrive, 
he'd  claim  he  had  to  go  over  and  see  how  the  pasturage  was 
holding  up  by  Three  Star  Butte,  or  if  there  was  enough  water 
for  the  herd  at  Snake  Creek. 

When  I  taxed  him  about  it,  he  said  he  hated  to  take  a  chance 
on  one  of  those  fool  tenderfoots  wanting  to  ride  that  sweet 
I'into  pony  of  his.  But  the  boys  all  joked  him,  claiming  it  was 
because  he  was  loath  to  meet  up  with  the  women  of  the  com- 

52 


They  made  a  pretty  picture — the  girl  in  white  leather 
chaps  and  a  big  sombrero,  the  mare  prancing  like  a  colt 


pany.  And  yet  at  Hank  Davis'  movie  theater  at  the  Junction, 
Pink  never  missed  a  Western. 

One  day,  when  I  was  sitting  on  the  stoop,  tilted  back  on  the 
hind  legs  of  my  chair,  a  short,  squatty  little  feller  with  a  long 
nose  drives  up  in  an  old  Stutz. 

He  introduces  himself  as  Mister  Zoebeck,  President  and 
Manager  of  the  All  Arts  Film  concern. 

Now,  Hank  Davis  had  run  considerable  All  Arts  pictures, 
probably  because  they  were  the  cheapest  ones  he  could  get  hold 
of.  So  I  wasn't  entirely  surprised  when  it  came  out  that 
Zoebeck  wasn't  able  to  make  the  advance  payment  that  treat- 
ing with  the  movie  industry  has  taught  me  to  demand.  It 
seemed  the  money  he  was  expecting  from  New  York  had  been 
held  up  in  the  air  mail  by  a  blizzard. 

After  quite  a  spell  of  argument,  the  manager  turns  away, 
drooping  and  discouraged  as  a  little  moulting  sparrow.  He's 
about  to  climb  back  into  his  car,  when  Pink,  who'd  been  polish- 
ing tack  close  by,  speaks  up. 

"  Cottonwood,"  he  says,  "maybe  I  can  help  out  Mr. 
Zoebeck." 


'fwk 


The  story  of  a  smart 

girl  who  played  a 

double  role  in  one 

lonely  man's  life 


"Pink,"  I  replies,  "the  only  thing  that  would  help  out  Mr. 
Zoebeck  as  far  as  I'm  concerned  is  five  hundred  dollars,  and 
where  would  a  cowman  ever  get  that  much  kale?  " 

"I've  already  got  it,"  he  replies  and  pulls  out  his  wallet, 
disclosing  enough  alfalfa  to  feed  a  herd  of  short  horns  through 
the  winter. 

I  started  so  sudden  I  almost  had  to  pull  leather  to  hang  onto 
my  chair.  "Whoa  there,  cowboy!"  I  cries,  grabbing  his  arm 
to  elbow  out  Zoebeck,  who  is  buzzing  around  like  a  hungry 
horsefly. 

"Didn't  me  and  the  Pinto  take  away  three  cash  prizes  from 
the  Bakersfield  rodeo?"  says  Pink. 

"And  I  assure  you  that  your  investment  will  be  repaid  mani- 
fold from  the  profits  of  the  picture,"  Zoebeck  breaks  in.  "Now, 
if  you'll  give  me  the  money,  I'll  have  our  lawyers — " 

"T  DON'T  lean  much  to  lawyers,"  objects  Pink,  putting  back 
J-  the  wallet.  "But  I  don't  want  no  funny  business,  'cause, 
then,  I  reckon  I'd  have  to  take  my  payment  out  of  Mr.  Zoe- 
beck's  hide."  And  he  casts  a  glance  at  the  manager  that  was 
plumb  ominous. 

"They'll  be  no  funny  business,"  gulps  Zoebeck,  backing  up 
'til  he  near  fell  off  the  stoop.  Then,  thanking  Pink  shortly  and 
at  a  safe  distance,  he  skedaddled. 


er 


wn 

est 


Enemy 

By 

Agnes  Christine 
Johnston 


Illustrated    by    R .    V .    James 


Two  days  later,  the  All  Arts  outfit  uncramped  themselves 
from  their  bus,  and  what  with  the  petting  and  attention  they 
gave  Pink,  I  figured  Zoebeck  must  have  wised  'em  that  cowboy 
was  their  angel  in  chaps. 

But  Pink  didn't  pay  any  heed  to  their  nonsense.  Just  stood 
by  the  car  with  his  hat  off,  looking  expectant,  and  it  came  to 
me  as  a  kind  of  shock  that  instead  of  vamoosing  in  his  usual 
way,  he  was  actually  waiting  to  take  stock  of  the  females  of  the 
troupe. 

There  was  only  one  of  the  unfair  sex,  however,  and  she  steps 
out  last,  looking  more  like  a  bear  than  a  girl,  all  wrapped  up  in 
a  big,  long-haired  fur  coat  and  carrying  a  mite  of  a  long-haired 
dog  that  might  have  been  the  fur  coat's  cub. 

She  anchored  to  the  end  of  rink's  'kerchief  and  threw  back 
her  little  blonde  head,  looking  up  at  his  six  feet,  two,  with  the 
pertest  kind  of  smile. 

"Hello,  cowboy,"  she  says. 

"Pleased  to  meet  you,  Ma'am." 

Pink,  his  face  as  red  as  his  hair,  tries  to  edge  away,  but  she 
begins  loading  his  arms  with  her  bags  and  bundles,  setting  the 
little  dog  top  side  of  'em  all. 

"  Well,  aren't  you  glad  to  see  me?"  she  asks. 

"Sure,  but  where's  the  rest  of  the  company?'" 

"I'm  all  the  rest  there  is." 

M 


"How  about  that  dark-haired,  full-figured  little  lady  who 
plays  the  dance  hall  girl?" 

••'Yilma  Roselle?" 

"That's  her  moniker." 

"She's  not  along  this  trip." 

"Then  how  can  you  folks  make  the  picture?" 

"Oh,  Yilma  hardly  ever  plays  in  the  exterior  scenes.  Just 
the  bar-room  and  dance  hall  sets,  and  we  shot  all  those  in 
Hollywood." 

Pink  looks  as  mournful  as  a  desert  fox  with  his  tail  in  a  trap. 
"Oh,  foot!"  he  says.  "It's  sure  disappointing  to  me  that  you 
had  to  leave  Miss  Roselle  behind." 

"Can't  I  take  her  place?"  asks  the  little  blonde  she-cat, 
cuddling  closer. 

"No,  Ma'am,  you  can't,"  returns  Pink,  firm  like. 

"Oh,  aren't  you  just  the  great  big  gallant  gorilla!" 

"Little  lady,  you  don't  understand.  Ever  since  I  first  saw 
Miss  Roselle  in  pictures,  it's  been  the  ambition  of  my  life  to 
meet  up  with  her." 

"Well,  I'm  in  All  Arts  pictures,  too,"  purrs  Blondy.  "Or 
maybe  you  never  noticed  the  gorgeous  creature  who  plays  the 
heroine  with  the  heart  of  gold  and  hair  of  peroxide?  " 

"Sure,  I  have.  You're  La vina  Lynn,  danged  pretty  in  the 
pictures,  and  a  honey  with  a  horse  and  I'm  mighty  glad  to 
make  your  acquaintance,  but — " 

"But  what?" 

"Oh,  it's  what  I  might  have  known  would  happen.  Lady 
Luck's  been  stringing  with  me  for  so  long,  it's  just  like  her  to  turn 
and  up-end  me  on  the  first  occasion  of  genuine  importance. 
Now  all  I  get  from  mv  five  hundred  is  the  sight  of  you,  instead 
of  Yilma  Roselle." 

"OAY,  Big  Boy,"  Lavina  shoots  out  at  him,  "you  ought  to  go 
Ointo  the  diplomatic  service.    You'd  promote  a  world  war  in 
just  about  five  minutes." 

And  grabbing  her  mutt  that  had  been  chewing  away  on 
Pink's  gauntlet  all  this  time,  she  trots  off  toward  the  house  with 
a  red  hot  mad  on. 

It  wasn't  until  the  end  of  the  day's  work  that  Lavina  met 
Pink  again.  I  and  him  were  out  in  the  corral,  haying  the  stock, 
when  she  rode  in  from  location  on  the  Mother  Mare — that 


white  pony  with  the  flowing  mane.  A  pretty  picture  they  made, 
the  girl  in  white  leather  chaps  and  a  big  sombrero  and  the 
Mother  Mare  prancing  like  she  was  a  colt  instead  of  twenty- 
eight  years  old  and  the  dam  of  fourteen  youngsters. 

In  spite  of  their  morning  ruckus,  she  starts  making  up  to  Pink 
right  off.  "I  guess  Yilma  Roselle  has  kind  of  sunk  you,  hasn't 
she,  Cowboy?" 

"Yes,"  says  Pink,  "I've  sure  got  an  admiration  for  that 
woman." 

"What's  so  much  about  her?" 

"Dunno."  Pink  was  warming  out  of  his  bashfulness  on 
account  of  his  interest  in  the  subject.  "They's  just  something 
about  that  husky  voice  of  hers  and  the  way  she  walks,  wriggling 
herself  around  like  a  rattler — " 

SHE  shakes  a  fancy  hip  all  right,"  admits  Lavina. 
"And  what  is  more,"  goes  on  Pink  solemn  as  a  church, 
"she  reminds  me  of  my  mother,  although  I  can't  quite  figure 
out  why." 

"Neither  can  I,"  says  Lavina  and  laughs  right  out. 

The  next  couple  of  days,  Pink  tags  after  Lavina  every  chance 
he  gets,  asking  her  questions  about  Yilma.  They  sat  next  each 
other  at  mealtime,  with  me  opposite,  and  she  sure  told  him 
plenty. 

Sometimes,  to  hear  her  talk,  you'd  think  this  Roselle  woman 
was  ranking  prize-winner  among  all  females,  and  then  the  very 
next  meal,  Lavina  would  start  playing  cat  to  her  friend,  saying 
it  was  true  that  Vilma  was  beautiful,  but  the  complexion 
specialists  had  a  heap  to  do  with  it,  while  as  for  good  nature 
and  disposition,  she  saved  up  what  meagre  amounts  she  owned 
for  her  scenes  in  front  of  the  camera. 

Hearing  this,  Pink  would  freeze  up  tighter  than  a  basin  of 
water  in  the  Yukon  and  leave  table  without  even  waiting  for  a 
second  passing  of  wheat  cakes. 

Zoebeck  didn't  seem  a  mite  happy  over  the  proceedings. 
He'd  plant  himself  on  the  other  side  of  Lavina  and  give  her  a 
look  or  nudge  if  she  went  too  far.  And  once,  I  judged  from  the 
squeal  she  gave,  he'd  stepped  on  her  foot,  under  the  table. 

One  evening  Pink  pipes  up  suddenly.  "  Miss  Lavina,  would 
you  mind  giving  me  Yilma  Roselle's  address?  I'm  planning  to 
write  her  a  letter."  [  please  turn  to  page  121  ] 


How  Ten  Stars 

Overcame 

Self-Consciousness 


The  Unknown 

Hollywood 
That  I  Know 


THE  stars  weren't  born  the  poised,  con- 
fident and  serene  individuals  they  ap- 
pear on  the  screen.  They  aren't,  by  any 
means,  strangers  to  the  painful  and  humil- 
iating experiences  which  self-conscious- 
ness occasions.  Millions  of  girls  suffer  from 
it.  Before  they  could  become  great,  the 
stars  had  to  overcome  this  every-day  stage 
fright  that  obscures  both  beauty  and 
charm. 

How  did  they  do  it? 

Adele  Whitely  Fletcher  has  talked  to 
ten  stars.  And  they  have  told  her  exactly 
what  they  did  to  master  self-consciousness 
until  today  they  appear  to  their  best  ad- 
vantage off  the  screen  as  well  as  on. 


AN  intimate  and  revealing  portrait  of 
the  world's  most  fantastic  city,  by 
Katherine  Albert,  who  for  twelve  years 
has  been  closely  associated  with  the  great- 
est stars  in  the  colony.  None  of  the  amaz- 
ing incidents  and  incredible  circumstances 
told  in  this  series  have  ever  been  printed 
before. 

Miss  Albert  tells  all — without  garnish- 
ing or  sugar-coating  the  truth. 

You'll  discover  about  your  favorites  se- 
crets that  no  one  knows.  Starting  with 
the  old  D.  W.  Griffith  days  and  marching 
steadily  to  the  present  time,  this  yarn  is  a 
striking  panorama  of  a  glamorous  town. 
Don't  miss  it! 


Don't   Miss  the  October   Issue  of  PHOTOPLAY 


Why  Carole  Changed 


Love  laughed  as  it 
threw  Bill  Powell's 
set  ideas  right  out  the 
window — so  did   Bill 


Her  Mind 


By  Ruth   Biery 


IT  was  a  simple  wedding.  Not  at  all  like  the  usual  Holly- 
wood matrimonial  show. 
Carole  wore  powder  blue  chiffon  without  veil  or  hat;  Bill 
a  light  grey  suit.  They  stood  in  the  living-room,  late  in  the 
afternoon,  chatting  with  their  two  families,  the  only  guests, 
until  Carole  slipped  her  hand  into  Bill's  and  said  simply,  "All 
right.    Let's  get  married." 

When  the  minister  had  finished  the  few,  ancient  words,  they 
locked  arms  and  walked  into  the  garden.  No  one  heard  what 
they  said  beneath  the  overhanging  shrubbery  but  when  they 
returned  to  the  living-room  their  eyes  looked  damp.  All  they 
said  was,  "We  are  happy." 

Then  the  two  families  sat  down  to  dinner.  Late  in  the  after- 
noon, Mrs.  Peters,  mother  of  Carole,  had  telephoned  a  few 
friends  and  asked  them  to  drop  in  about  ten-thirty.  The 
Richard  Barthelmess's,  Clive  Brooks  and  Ernest  Torrences 
joined  the  gay  little  group. 

Ronald  Colman  was  in  Santa  Barbara.  He  long-distanced 
his  felicitations.  He's  the  last  of  the  three  famous  bachelors, 
you  know.     Barthelmess  and  Powell  have  deserted. 

And  yet,  just  three  months  before  this  wedding  day,  June  28, 
Carole  Lombard  told  me  she  would  not  marry  Bill  Powell. 
Photoplay  has  already  printed  her  reasons.  Why  did  she 
change  her  mind? 

Here,  we  will  have  to  turn  to  the  intimates  of  the  two,  be- 
cause Carole  and  Bill  are  honeymooning  in  Honolulu  as  this  is 
written.    And  to  our  knowledge  of  both  parties. 

Carole  reversed  her  decision  for  two  reasons.  One,  she  was 
too  young  (she  is  twenty-two)  to  realize  that  love  can  conquer 
intelligence;  two,  Bill  Powell  changed. 

Those  close  to  him  state  definitely  they  have  never  seen  such 
a  change  in  a  man. 

When  Bill  Powell  first  met  Carole  Lombard,  last  October,  he 
was  selfish.  Oh,  yes,  you  were,  Bill.  I  understand  that  you 
yourself  have  admitted  as  much  recently. 

AFTER  all,  how  could  Bill  have  been  otherwise?  He'd  lived 
alone  so  long.  Although  his  divorce  is  recent — his  sep- 
aration came  years  ago.  He  was  accustomed  to  getting  up 
when  he  pleased,  going  where  he  pleased,  sleeping  when  he 
pleased — doing  what  he  pleased. 

The  studio  was  his  only  master  and  certain  people  in  the 
Paramount  studio  where  he  has  been  for  almost  four  years,  if 
pressed  hard  enough,  will  describe  Bill  Powell  as  a  trouble- 
maker. He  wanted  to  dictate  every  detail  of  every  picture.  To 
find  a  leading  lady  for  him  was  as  difficult  as  understanding  the 
Einstein  theory.  And  he  advised  others  to  be  dissatisfied — 
even,  we  understand,  Kay  Francis. 

In  other  words,  he  was  even  totally  selfish  in  his  work! 

When  he  first  asked  Carole  to  marry  him,  he  was  equally 
selfish.  She  was  to  give  up  her  career;  she  was  to  travel  when 
he  traveled;  she  was  to  live  as  he  lived.  Carole  told  me  all  this 
herself — three  months  ago. 

And  then? 

He  discovered  he  was  going  to  lose  Carole.  She  even  told 
him  he  couldn't  see  her  for  three  days.  She  told  him  she  had 
struggled  for  six  years— a  long,  arduous,  grinding  struggle 
typical  of  all  who  seek  success — and  she  was  not  going  to  let 
that  struggle  go  for  naught. 

She  couldn't  live  as  he  lived;  she  [  please  turn  to  page  104  ] 


%  S*  h 


Bill  and  Carole  said  good-bye  to  all  their  doubts  as  they 

set  off  for  a  Hawaiian   honeymoon.     They   believe 

they've  found  a  way  to  keep  their  careers  and  their 

happiness,  too 

55 


Select  Your  Pictures  and  You  Won't 


The 


* 


SUSAN  LENOX,  HER  FALL  AND  RISE—M-G-M 


IF  you  like  your  romance  spread  thick,  your  passion 
strong  and  your  Garbo  hot,  don't  miss  this.  And  take 
notice,  you  Garbo-ites:  If  you  were  mad  about  her  before, 
just  wait  until  you  see  her  teamed  up  with  this  manifesta- 
tion  of   masculine   S.    A.   called   Clark   Gable. 

The  story  of  Susan  Lenox  is  fairly  well-known.  Picturiz- 
ing  it,  M-G-M  stuck  closely  to  the  tale,  modernizing  it,  of 
course,    and   adding   a   trick   ending. 

Garbo  does  her  utmost  with  the  title  role,  a  natural  for 
her.  And  Gable  will  unquestionably  win  more  fans  by 
his  work.  This  Garbo-Gable  team  looks  hot  for  the  screen's 
double-harness  honors.  To  M-G-M's  photographers,  a 
rousing  cheer  for  some  magnificent  camerawork. 


Shadow 
Stage 

(HLQ.iU  Js-'PaT    OFF..'         fl  W 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


SECRETS  OF  A  SECRETARY— Paramount 


HERE  is  a  story  which  is  none  too  strong,  but  is  made 
entertaining  and  interesting  because  of  the  people  in  it. 

Claudette  Colbert,  featured  as  the  society  girl  who 
becomes  a  social  secretary  when  her  father  dies  penniless,  is 
more  appealing  than  ever,  but  it  is  Herbert  Marshall, 
English  actor-husband  of  Edna  Best,  who  makes  this 
picture  of  more  than  ordinary  interest. 

When  you  see  him  you  will  know  why  Edna  ran  away 
from  Hollywood  to  be  with  him.  He  is  not  only  a  splendid 
actor,  but  a  handsome  one,  with  a  devastating  charm. 

Georges  Metaxa,  another  newcomer  who  will  interest  you, 
plays  Claudette's  gigolo  husband  excellently,  while  Mary 
Boland,  Broadway  stage  veteran,  and  Betty  Lawford,  help 
make  this  an  enjoyable  film. 

56 


FIVE  STAR  FINAL— First  National 


CHALK  up  another  bull's-eye  for  the  same  team  that 
made  "Little  Caesar"  big — actor  Eddie  Robinson  and 
director  Mervyn  LeRoy!  In  "Five  Star  Final"  they've 
achieved  another  thriller  that  will  make  its  way  to  high 
screen  and  box-office  honors. 

"Five  Star  Final"  is  the  brutally  bitter  tale  of  how 
rotten  tabloid  journalism  can  be  at  its  worst.  It  tells  how, 
for  the  sake  of  circulation,  a  tab  sheet  digs  up  the  lived- 
down  past  of  a  woman  who  is  happily  married,  mother  of 
a  girl  at  the  threshold  of  her  own  great  happiness — marriage 
to  the  man  she  loves — but  who  knows  nothing  of  the  hidden 
tragedy  in  her  mother's  life.  Heedless  of  all  decency,  dis- 
regarding all  pleas,  the  scandal  sheet  goes  ahead  with  its 
expose.  As  the  managing  editor  who  hates  his  job,  Robin- 
son is  superb.  Marian  Marsh,  as  the  daughter,  is  grand, 
and  Alene  MacMahon   makes  a  "bit"  stand  out. 


Have  to  Complain  About  the  Bad  Ones 

The  Best  Pictures  of  the  Month 


FIVE  STAR  FINAL  BOUGHT 

SUSAN  LENOX,  HER  FALL  AND  RISE 
SECRETS  OF  A  SECRETARY  MERELY  MARY  ANN 

POLITICS  THE  STAR  WITNESS 

BAD  GIRL  THE  SECRET  CALL 

TRANSATLANTIC  WATERLOO  BRIDGE 


The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 


Greta  Garbo  and 
Clark  Gable 

in  "Susan  Lenox" 

Edward  G.  Robinson 
and  Marian  Marsh 
in  "Five  Star  Final" 

Constance  Bennett 
and  Richard  Bennett 
in  "Bought" 

Janet  Gaynor,  Charlie 
Farrell  and  Beryl  Mercer 

in  "Merely  Mary  Ann" 

Marie  Dressier  and 
Polly  Moran 

in  "Politics" 

Lionel  Barrymore 
in  "Guilty  Hands" 

Helen  Hayes 
in  "The  Lullaby" 


James  Dunn,  Minna 
Gombell  and  Sally  Eilers 
in  "Bad  Girl" 

Claudette  Colbert 
and  Herbert  Marshall 
in  "Secrets  of  a  Secretary" 

Edmund  Lowe  and 

Greta  Nissen 

in  "Transatlantic" 

Peggy  Shannon 
and  Richard  Arlen 
in  "The  Secret  Call" 

Adolphe  Menjou 
and  Irene  Dunne 
in  "The  Great  Lover" 

Chic  Sale 

in  "The  Star  Witness" 

Mae  Clarke 

in  "Waterloo  Bridge" 


* 


MERELY  MARY  ANN— Fox 


Casts  of  a//  photoplays  reviewed  will  be  found  on  page  126 


THAT  idyllic  pair  of  young  romancers,  Janet  Gaynor 
and  Charlie  Farrell,  are  back  again  in  this  one,  a  sweet 
tale  of  the  raggedy  boarding  house  slavey  and  the  ambitious 
young  musician.  It's  the  sort  of  thing  you'll  like  and, 
of  course,  you'll  like  them  in  it,  for  Janet  has  never  been 
more  wistful  and  Charlie  never   more  reformed. 

However,  the  big  laurels  go  to  Beryl  Mercer  as  the 
boarding  house  keeper  to  whom  Janet  is  slavey.  She  shows 
what  a  real  trouper  she  is  and  endows  the  part  with  a  rich 
humor. 

In  addition  to  the  charm  of  the  picture  a  musical  score 
is  occasionally  introduced  which  adds  to  its  enjoyment. 

And  take  your  hankie.     It's  that  kind  of  picture. 


LOOKING  for  a  real  picture?  One  which  will  hold  you 
on  the  edge  of  your  seat  without  a  gangster  in  it? 

Constance  Bennett  does  some  great  acting  and  Archie 
Mayo  does  some  grand  directing. 

Connie  is  the  daughter  of  her  own  father  in  the  picture, 
but  she  doesn't  know  it.  You,  the  audience,  suspect  it. 
She's  eighteen  in  the  first  shot;  twenty  in  the  last.  If  all 
girls  learned  the  common  sense  she  did  in  two  years,  flappers 
would  go  out  of  style.  You  feel  that  most  girls  have  as 
many  troubles  as  Connie,  which  is  one  reason  the  picture 
is  a  wow.    It's  human. 

Warners  were  clever  in  the  device  they  used  to  show  off 
Connie's  figure.  They  made  her  a  model  for  one-third  of 
the  production.  Those  clothes!  No  woman  will  want  to 
miss  the  gowns;  no  man  the  figure  which  displays  them. 

Ben  Lyon  is  splendid,  as  is  Arthur  Stuart  Hull. 


POLITICS— M-G-M 


IF  that  Dressler-Moran  team  doesn't  cure  your  Depression 
Blues,  it's  time  to  see  a  doctor,  numerologist,  astrologist, 
or  veterinary.  They  start  you  off  with  a  giggle  and  send 
you  home  still  laughing  at  that  uproarious  last  line.  (No, 
we  won't  tell  you.  Go  and  hear  it  for  yourself.)  For  con- 
trast, you  won't  mind  the  few  tears  you  blink  away. 

Polly  and  Marie,  a  couple  of  civic-minded  housewives, 
set  out  to  clean  up  the  town's  speakeasies  and  reform  its 
politics.  They  organize  the  women  and  promote  a  house- 
wives' strike — no    bedmaking,  sweeping   or  baby-tending. 

We  can't  tell  you  more  without  spoiling  your  fun.  Except 
chat  Roscoe  Ates  is  still  funny  as  a  stutterer  and  Karen 
Morley,  as  Marie's  daughter,  promises  to  do  even  bigger 
things. 

57 


Here's   Your    Monthly   Shopping   List! 


* 


THE  STAR 
WITNESS— 
Warners 


ft 


BAD  GIRL- 
FOX 


ONLY  that  this  was  previewed  on  the  dead-line  and  the 
spaces  for  the  leading  six  were  filled,  keeps  this  from  the 
preceding  pages  this  month.  It  has  excellent  suspense,  humor, 
heartache.  To  tell  the  story  would  spoil  the  intensity  of  its 
drama.  It  has  an  entirely  new  plot.  Walter  Huston,  Chic 
Sale,  Sally  Blane,  Frances  Starr,  Eddie  Nugent — are  all  splendid. 
You  will  want  to  see  it. 


WHETHER  or  not  you  read  Vina  Delmar's  novel  from 
which  this  is  taken,  you'll  get  a  thrill  from  the  picture 
version.  You'll  find  everything:  Laughter  at  the  maternity 
ward;  a  prize-fight  which  the  father  loses  as  first  payment 
on  his  baby;  sex  appeal  when  the  undies  are  displayed;  pathos 
and  love.  Director  Frank  Borzage,  James  Dunn,  Minna 
Gombell  and  Sally  Eilers  rate  high  praise. 


ft 


THE  SECRET 

CALL— 

Paramount 


ft 


TRANS- 

ATLANTIC- 

Fox 


PEGGY  SHANNON,  who  substituted  for  Clara  Bow  in 
this  story  of  love  and  politics  when  Microphone  Fright 
sent  Clara  to  the  hospital,  makes  the  most  of  her  opportunity 
and  scores  a  solid  hit.  You  won't  forget  her.  William  B. 
Davidson  as  the  politician  who  ruins  Peggy's  father,  is  an  able 
villain,  while  Dick  Arlen  is  splendid  as  the  love  interest.  Ned 
Sparks  does  well  as  a  humorous  reporter. 


IF  you  don't  like  the  technique  of  the  opening  shots,  showing 
the  intricacies  of  boarding  and  running  a  ship,  don't  leave. 
It's  a  fine  picture,  and  director  William  K.  Howard  has  done 
an  unusual  job.  Edmund  Lowe  is  splendid  as  the  gambler  with 
a  heart,  and  Greta  Nissen  gives  a  convincing  and  sexy  inter- 
pretation of  a  beautiful  adventuress.  John  Halliday,  Myrna 
Loy,  and  Lois  Moran  do  good  work  in  supporting  roles. 


ft 


WATERLOO 

BRIDGE— 

Universal 


GUILTY 

HANDS— 

M-G-M 


BOB  SHERWOOD'S  splendid  stage  play,  made  intelligently 
into  a  very  entertaining  picture.  Dealing  with  a  some- 
what morbid  story  of  a  girl  whom  Fate  knocks  down  time 
after  time,  it  is  nevertheless  a  production  that  is  well  worth 
your  time  and  money.  Mae  Clarke  is  splendid  as  Myra. 
This  is  an  honest  picture,  another  answer  to  the  fans'  desire 
for  something  different  in  screen  fare. 

58 


ONE  of  the  best  murder  yarns  produced,  in  which  Lionel 
Barrymore  gives  an  excellent  and  polished  performance. 
He's  a  father  who  commits  murder  to  protect  the  happiness 
of  his  daughter.  You  know  he  did  the  murder.  The  excitement 
lies  in  the  question:  Will  they  discover  him  or  won't  they?  Go 
and  see  to  find  out.  Kay  Francis  and  Madge  Evans  also  con- 
tribute excellent  performances. 


The  First   and 


HONEYMOON 
LANE— 
Sono  Art 


Best   Talkie 


Reviews! 


FULL  OF 
NOTIONS— 
Radio  Pictures 


NOT  a  great  picture,  but  a  thoroughly  delightful  one.  No 
sex,  no  gang  murders,  but  plenty  of  laughs  and  chuckles 
and  entertainment.  Eddie  Dowling  and  June  Collyer  team 
up  for  romantic  delight,  while  amazing  Ray  Dooley  will  tie 
you  up  in  laugh-knots.  The  story  is  negligible,  but  the  handling 
of  it  is  charming — and  there's  a  song  number  by  Dowling 
which  proves  music  has  its  place  on  the  screen. 


IF  you're  a  Wheelcrwoolseyite,  don't  miss  this  one — for  it's 
one  of  the  best  comedies  the  W-W  team  has  turned  out. 
It  packs  enough  fat  laughs  to  make  up  for  weeks  of  gang- 
murders  and  sad-endings!  This  time  the  two  comickers,  un- 
employed vaudevillians,  take  over  a  moribund  drug  store  to 
help  a  poor  old  lady.  The  villain  spikes  the  lemon  sodas 
they  sell.       Results:  hilarious! 


the  black 
camel- 
fox 


THE  GREAT 

LOVER— 

M-G-M 


ANOTHER  good  mystery  movie  in  which  the  suave  and 
shrewd  Charlie  Chan  unravels  the  strange  circumstances 
surrounding  the  murder  of  a  motion  picture  star.  Warner 
Oland  again  plays  the  courteous  Oriental  (betcha  he  uses  that 
Chinese  accent  at  breakfast).  Sally  Eilers,  Dorothy  Revier 
and  Bela  Lugosi  are  all  excellent.  The  film  was  made  in 
Honolulu.     And  it's  great  for  the  hot  weather.     See  it. 


WHEREIN  Menjou  reverts  to  type.  As  Paurel,  the 
opera  star,  who  breaks  hearts  by  the  score,  only  t<> 
have  his  own  broken — well,  cracked — at  the  end,  Menjou 
makes  full  use  of  that  personal  quality  which  screen-goers  have 
called  sophistication.  Irene  Dunne,  using  her  gorgeous  singing 
voice  for  the  first  time  on  the  screen,  is  a  revelation.  Neil 
Hamilton   and  Ernest  Torrence  are  excellent,  too. 


THE  PUBLIC 
DEFENDER— 
Radio  Pictures 


THE 

LULLABY- 

M-G-M 


IN  one  way,  "  Cimarron  "  wasn't  such  a  good  break  for  Dix, 
after  all.  It  led  his  fans  to  expect  too  much.  And  the  stories 
he's  had  since  then  somehow  don't  seem  to  stack  up.  This  is 
one — he's  a  modern  avenger  who,  alone  and  mysteriously, 
brings  to  justice  a  gang  of  big-shot  crooks  and  does  a  neat 
job  of  it.  Unless  you're  looking  for  another  Yancey  Cravat, 
you'll  not  be  too  bored. 


HELEN  HAVES  lives  up  to  her  reputation  of  being  one 
of  our  most  capable  stage  actresses.  What  a  pity  that  her 
first  movie  story  is  so  old  to  the  picture  public  that  you  know 
every  move  before  she  makes  it.  "The  Lullaby"  is  just  another 
version  of  the  antiquated  "Madame  X"  melodrama.  An 
excellent  supporting  cast  wasted  in  this  indifferent  production. 
[additional  reviews  on*  page  98] 

r>9 


$5,000™  ■/*  Prizes 


1      Seventy  cash  prizes  will  be  paid  by 
Photoplay  Magazine,  as  follows: 


First  Prize $1,000.00 

Second  Prize 750.00 

Third  Prize 500.00 

Fourth  Prize 300.00 

Fifth  Prize 200.00 

Twenty-five  Prizes  of  $50 

each 1,250.00 

Forty  Prizes  of  $25  each. .    1,000.00 


O  In  four  issues  (the  June,  July, 
August  and  September  numbers) 
Photoplay  Magazine  is  publishing 
puzzle  pictures  of  well-known  motion 
picture  actors  and  actresses.  Eight  com- 
plete puzzle  pictures  appear  in  each  issue. 
Each  puzzle  picture  will  consist  of  the 
lower  face  and  shoulders  of  one  player,  the 
nose  and  eyes  of  another,  and  the  upper 
face  of  a  third.  When  completed,  eight 
portraits  may  be  produced.  $5,000.00  in 
prizes,  as  specified  in  rule  No.  1,  will  be 
paid  to  the  persons  sending  in  the  nearest 
correctly  named  and  most  neatly  ar- 
ranged set  of  thirty-two  portraits. 


"2  Do  not  submit  any  solutions  or 
answers  until  after  the  fourth  set  of 
puzzle  pictures  has  appeared  in  the  Sep- 
tember issue.  Completed  puzzle  pictures 
must  be  submitted  in  sets  of  thirty-two 
only.  Identifying  names  should  be 
written  or  typewritten  below  each  as- 
sembled portrait.  At  the  conclusion  of 
the  contest  all  pictures  should  be  sent 
to  PICTURE  PUZZLE  EDITORS, 
Photoplay  Magazine,  919  North 
Michigan  Avenue,  Chicago,  111.  Be  sure 
that  your  full  name  and  complete  address 
is  written  on,  or  attached  to,  your  entry; 
that  your  entry  is  securely  packed  to 
guard  against  damage  in  transit;  and 
that  it  carries  sufficient  postage  to  avoid 
delav. 


Read  the  Rules 
Carefully  Before 
Starting   Work 


A  Contestants  can  obtain  help  in 
solving  the  puzzle  pictures  by  care- 
fully studying  the  poems  appearing  be- 
low the  pictures  in  each  issue.  Each 
eight-line  verse  refers  to  the  two  sets  of 
puzzle  pictures  appearing  directly  above 
it.  The  six-line  verse  applies  generally  to 
the  four  sets  on  that  page.  Bear  in  mind 
that  it  costs  absolutely  nothing  to  enter 
this  contest.  Indeed,  the  contest  is  purely 
an  amusement.  You  do  not  need  to  be  a 
subscriber  or  reader  of  Photoplay  Mag- 
azine to  compete.  You  do  not  have  to 
buy  a  single  issue.  You  may  copy  or 
trace  the  pictures  from  the  originals  in 
Photoplay  Magazine  and  assemble  the 
pictures  from  the  copies.  Copies  of 
Photoplay  Magazine  may  be  examined 
at  the  New  York  and  Chicago  offices  of 
the  publication,  or  at  public  libraries,  free 
of  charge. 


C  Aside  from  accuracy  in  completing 
and  identifying  puzzle  pictures, 
neatness  and  originality  in  contestants' 
methods  of  submitting  solutions  will  be 
considered  in  awarding  prizes.  The  thirty- 
two  puzzle  pictures,  or  their  drawn  dupli- 
cates, when  completed,  must  have  the 
name  of  the  player  written  or  typewritten 
below. 


£L     The   judges   will   be   a    committee 

of  members  of  Photoplay 

Magazine's  staff.    Their  decision  will  be 

final.     No  relatives  or  members  of  the 

household  of  anyone  connected  with  this 


publication  can  submit  solutions.  Other- 
wise, the  contest  is  open  to  everyone 
everywhere. 


H     In  the  case  of  ties  for  any  of  the 
prizes  offered  the  full  amount  of 
the  prize  tied  for  will  be  given  to  each 
tying  contestant. 


g^  The  contest  will  close  at  midnight 
on  September  20th.  All  solutions 
received  from  the  time  the  fourth  set  of 
pictures  appears  to  the  moment  of  mid- 
night on  September  20th  will  be  con- 
sidered by  the  judges.  No  responsibility 
in  the  matter  of  mail  delays  or  losses  will 
rest  with  Photoplay  Magazine.  Send 
your  answers  as  soon  as  possible  after 
the  last  set  of  puzzle  pictures  appears 
in  the  September  issue,  which  will  be  for 
sale  on  the  newsstands  on  or  about 
August  15th.  The  prize  winners  will  be 
announced  in  the  January,  1932,  issue 
of  Photoplay. 


Q  Because  of  the  time  and  labor  re- 
quired to  re-pack  and  re-ship  thou- 
sands of  entries,  it  will  be  impossible  to 
return  any  of  them.  They  will  be  sent 
to  hospitals  and  orphanages  to  gladden 
the  hearts  of  sick  and  homeless  children. 


O  .  •  Contestants  should 

Suggestions  study  the  poems  ap_ 

pearing  in  connection  with  the  puzzle 
pictures.  These  are  the  indicators  for 
identifying  the  contest  puzzle  pictures 
and  winning  prizes. 

It  is  suggested  that  contestants  merely 
pin  their  solutions  together  until  the  four 
sets  of  pictures  are  complete.  This  will 
permit  the  shifting  and  changing  about 
of  pictures  as  the  contest  progresses — and 
will  give  time  for  lengthy  consideration 
and  study. 

Each  puzzle  picture  is  a  portrait  of  a 
well-known  motion  picture  actor  or 
actress. 


70  readers  M^/W/* 

Now  Turn  to  Page  62  and  Get  Busy 


60 


THE  only  woman  who  ever  became  a  topnotch  talkie  director.  Start- 
ing as  a  stenographer  on  the  Paramount  lot,  she's  still  with  the  same 
company.  She's  had  to  resign  four  times  to  get  recognition,  and  was 
scared  stiff  at  the  responsibilities.  But  now  she's  sitting  pretty,  as  you 
can  see  in  this  fine  study  of  Dorothy  Arzncr  and  her  faithful  camera 


Photoplay  Magazine's  New  $5,000.00   Puzzle   Contest 


Upper 
The  hair  was  on  the  stage  a  long  while  ago;  The 

The  eyes  have  been  married  three  times.  The 

The  mouth  is  one  star  who  will  wait  a  long  while  The 

Before  her  own  wedding  bell  chimes  And 

Lower 
The  hair  first  saw  light  in  the  Cimarron  state.  The 

The  eyes  have  caused  laughter  and  tears:  The 

The  mouth's  a  new-comer — she  s  gone  over  big —  The 

In  fact  she's  been  greeted  by  cheers!  But, 

RESUME 
Three  have  been  married,  and  one  is  not  wed. 
One's  awfully  young — one  refuses  to  grow  old 
One's  a  dashing  brunette,  and  one's  just  between. 
And  one  boasts  of  hair  that's  red  gold 
One's  been  in  the  pictures  for  many  a  year, 
And  one  starred  abroad  ere  she  came  over  here. 


Upper 
hair  has  a  daughter,  a  child  she  adores — 
eyes  had  two  years  on  the  stage 
mouth  went  to  convent,  was  later  in  stock, 
we  aren't  quite  sure  of  her  age. 

Lower 
hair  weighs  far  less  than  the  century  mark, 
eyes  have  the  loveliest  knees — 
mouth  has  known  sorrow  and  trouble  and  pain, 
oh,  how  she's  able  to  please! 


Complete   Rules  for  Competition   Appear  on   Page  60 


Upper 
The  hair  came  to  us  from  a  far  away  land, 
The  eves  have  a  dad  who's  a  wow; 
The  mouth  played  in  stock,  was  a  hit  on  the  stage, 
Hut  he  came  to  the  screen  anyhow! 

Lower 
The  hair  only  once  has  been  able  to  vote, 
I  lie  eyes  have  twice  gone  to  the  altar: 
The  mouth  has  been  married  two  years,  and  they  say 
His  marital  love  will  not  falter. 


Upper 
The  hair  was  with  Hackett — (said  hair  is  dark  brown) — 
I  he  eyes  ^cnt  to  schcx>l  overseas; 

Hie  mouth  has  been  starred  in    "The  Vice  Squad",  they  say 
It's  a  picture  that  surely  did  please. 

Lower 
l"he  hair  has  inherited  talent,  and  how! 
I  he  eyes  had  a  lengthy  stage  training — 
The  mouth  is  a  Grand  Rapids,  Michigan,  boy, 
\nd  his  acting  flair  needs  no  explaining! 

RESUME 
Two  oj  them  are  married  and  one  neivr  was, 
\nd  two  are  quite  light,  and  two  darker — 
'Ihree  of  them  had  schooling  irt  Europe,  and  one 
Had  qitite  a   nice  pari    in    "The    Barker." 
'three  had  stage  careers,  and  three  studied  in  college — 
And  all  of  them  have  great  screen  charm,  and  real  knowledge! 


HE'S  seen  some  tough  times,  has  Ronald  Colman.  The  lessom 
they  taught  him  he  shares  with  you  on  the  opposite  page.  Nevei 
a  piker  and  one  of  the  most  gracious  of  hosts  in  his  beautiful  Holly 
wood  home,  he's  learned  a  few  lessons  about  moderation  in  ambitior 
and  the  real  value  of  things  that  he  here  generously  passes  on  to  yoi 


The  Way  I  See  It 


By  Ronald  Co/man 


Ronnie  discovered 
money  can  be  a 
spiritual  thing — when 
it's    in    the    bank 


MY  experience  with  money  has  been  more 
or  less  of  a  touch  and  go  affair.  Re- 
flectively speaking,  I  found  my  attitude 
toward  capital  as  varied  as  the  ba- 
rometer. Sometimes  money  seemed  a  goal,  some- 
times a  luxury,  often  a  dire  necessity,  frequently  a 
servant.  I  have  often  wondered  that  this  inorganic 
thing  called  by  whatever  you  will — cash,  property, 
notes — could  plough  so  fecund  a  field  at  one  in- 
stance and  [at  another  disguise  itself  like  someone 
else's  possession  in  so  chameleon-like  a  fashion  that 
one  was  never  able  to  find  it  again. 

Money  never  really  is  lost,  for  there  is  always 
some  kind  person  to  fish  it  out  of  the  maelstrom 
of  improvident  spending. 

Unfortunately,  in  the  beginning,  I  didn't  do  a 
great  deal  of  fishing  and  so  money  and  I  were  only  occasionally 
giy  companions,  but  more  often  than  not  quite  distantly  related, 
.t  took  years  of  the  best  sort  of  practice  to  accustom  myself 
to  the  feel  of  it  and  realize  its  powers  of  futurity.  After  that 
it  became  a  friend  and  a  member  of  my  household  in  the 
capacity  of  a  well-paying  guest. 

In  London,  before  the  World  War,  I  was  just  another  young 
man  with  a  fairly  good  job,  too  busy  working  with  one  hand 
and  enjoying  himself  with  the  other  to  wonder  about  eventual 
values.  Tennis,  cricket,  an  amateur  dramatic  society  which 
took  a  great  deal  of  time,  combined  with  the  office  to  fill  my 
days  brimful.  The  thing  I  wanted  most  out  of  life  was  what 
most  youngsters  want — a  rapid  succession  of  interesting, 
possibly  exciting  experiences,  building  up  to — well,  nothing  in 
particular.  One  thing  was  as  good  as  another,  so  long  as  it 
was  new. 

SO  when  the  war  came  and  the  London  Scottish  Reserves, 
which  I  had  joined  for  the  purpose  of  keeping  fit,  were  called 
to  the  colors,  I  was  definitely  pleased  to  see  this  whole  chapter 
of  new  experience  opening  before  me.  I  had  no  settled  liveli- 
hood to  leave,  no  absorbing  career  to  be  interrupted,  no  future 
to  build,  for  that  had  never  occurred  to  me. 

I  went,  and  had  my  share  of  fighting,  and  was  invalided 
home  after  two  years.  And  at  this  point,  with  nothing  to 
return  to  and  so  much  temptation  to  just  go  off  the  handle 
and  forget — I  had  my  problem. 

I  might  return  to  my  old  job.  I  might  get  a  place  in  the 
consular  service  through  a  friend  who  pulled  wires  for  it  with 
far  more  zeal  than  I  ever  felt  in  the  matter.  I  hadn't  a  shilling 
to  my  credit  anywhere  but  in  my  pocket,  and  that  was  not  im- 
portant. You  don't  need  an  anchor  to  windward  when  you'd 
rather  drift  than  not. 


Ronald  Colman  and  Fay  Wray  in  a  scene  from  his  latest 

Samuel   Goldwyn    picture,    "The    Unholy    Garden."      His 

stage  career  was  a  lucky  (for  us,  too!)  accident 


But  while  the  consular  business  was  hanging  fire,  I  heard 
that  Lena  Ashwell  was  looking  for  a  darkish,  Italian-appearing 
youngster  for  a  leading  man  in  her  vaudeville  playlet.  My 
taste  for  acting  experienced  a  mild  revival.  People  did  make 
a  living  on  the  stage  now  and  again,  and  I  knew  that  I  en- 
joyed acting  above  all  things. 

I  had  an  interview  with  Miss  Ashwell  and  was  accepted  for 
the  part.  We  toured  England  in  the  sketch  and  I  did  well 
enough  to  take  definitely  to  the  stage  from  then  on.  I  was  an 
actor.     Quite  by  accident,  I  had  a  profession  at  last. 

BUT  it  was  a  profession  which  was  far  too  appropriate  to  my 
state  of  mind.  There  is  nothing  so  haphazard,  hit-or-miss,  as 
the  average  actor's  career.  And  I  had  even  less  sense  of 
direction  than  most  beginners.  It  was  a  careless,  threadbare 
sort  of  existence,  improvident,  recklessly  so,  without  any  more 
reasoned  purpose  than  keeping  a  little  ahead  of  the  week's 
necessities.  I  even  enjoyed  this  aspect  of  my  new  life  in  the 
intervals  of  financial  perplexity. 

And  there  was  a  sufficient  degree  of  success  to  keep  me 
cheerful  most  of  the  time.  Presently  I  was  playing  the  male 
lead  in  a  London  production  of  "Damaged  Goods,"  getting 
thirty  pounds  (about  $150)  a  week  and  astonished  at  my  own 
earning  capacity.  Of  course  I  was  an  actor,  and  headed  far 
too  willingly  up  a  ladder  of  easy  success.  When  "Damaged 
Goods"  closed,  there  would  be  another  part,  a  higher  salary, 
and  after  that  another,  and  so  on  and  so  forth.  It  was  an 
infection  of  an  easy  optimism  which  pervades  the  acting 
profession,  and  I  had  a  bad  case. 

"Damaged  Goods"  closed,  according  to  my  schedule.  But 
the  new  part  with  the  higher  salary  was  not  forthcoming  at  all. 
In  those  closing  days  of  the  war,  the  London  theater  was  in 
an  incredible  depth  of  stagnant  [  PLEASE  TURN  to  page  94  ] 

65 


Lil  and  Eddie  and  their 


A  happy  pair  in  the  red  and  white  dining-room,  with  real  Wedgwood  china  on  the 
buffet.    Who'll  break  the  first  plate? 


^BBB^^i 

i^V    ^1 

i7f  ib  w 

M  .       , 4k  ,  ■ 

1              flBi  'i 

Lilyan  Tashman  and 
Eddie  Lowe  knocked 
Malibu  cold  when 
they  opened  their 
famous  beach  house. 
Here's  the  bedroom 
and  that  there  sleep- 
ing place  was  spe- 
cially built 


Photographs 
by  Stagg 


66 


Red  and  White  "Shack 


55 


Inside  and  out  it's  red 
and  white.  Lil  wears 
a  bathing  suit  of  the 
same  colors.  So 
Eddie  just  won't  feel 
blue.  The  only  false 
note  in  the  color 
scheme  is  that  swell 
tan  they  both  have 


Get  the  red  and  white  stripes  and  checkers  in  the  living-room,  and  that  picture  of  Joan  Crawford  on 

the  table  Lil's  perched  on 


TXZANTED  for  grand  and  petty  larceny!    This  young  woman 

"'   is  a  picture  stealer.     Remember  her  in  "Night  Nurse"? 

When  she  was  on  the  screen  nobody  had  a  chance.     On  the 

opposite  page  Ruth  Biery  tells  you  a  lot  about  Joan  Blondell 


68 


"Take  it  easy  and 
laugh,"  is  Joan's  motto. 
Once  just  another 
Broadway  blonde  she 
is  now  considered  big 
time  stuff 


According  to  the  inter- 
viewer, Joan  Blondell 
isn't  in  love  and  she 
ought  to  be.  Now 
where's  the  old  chivalry 
of  Hollywood? 


A  New  Picture  Thief 


TWENTY-TWO  birthdays  and 
each  one  spent  in  a  different  port 
and  a  majority  in  different  coun- 
tries!   You'd  expect  a  girl  with  a  record  like  that  to  be 
interesting,  wouldn't  you? 

Well,  you  won't  be  disappointed.  At  least,  I  wasn't.  Joan 
Blondell  was  more  than  I  expected.  But  then,  remember,  I'm 
just  an  old  movie-cynic  and  don't  as  a  rule  expect  much  from 
screen  newcomers.  We've  seen  so  many  come — and  we've  seen 
so  many  go. 

Of  course,  after  "  Night  Nurse"  I  knew  Blondell  could  steal  a 
picture.  Somehow,  you  almost  forget  Barbara  Stanwyck  (fine 
actress  that  she  is)  when  those  two  women  came  in  together. 
But  we've  seen  others  steal  pictures  and  then  depart  to  regions 
unknown. 

But,  somehow,  after  meeting  her,  I  can't  believe  this  blonde- 
headed  little  kid  is  to  be  one  of  the  temporary  headliners — 
unless  she  runs  out  on  us.  After  all,  it  is  darned  hard  to  settle 
down  to  birthdays  in  one  place  with  her  record. 

I  base  these  assumptions  more  on  my  meeting  with  her  than 
on  her  story.  Although  the  story  is  full  of  interest  the  meeting 
was  of  still  more  interest.    Perhaps  you'd  like  to  get  in  on  it. 

It  was  a  cold  interview.  Now,  all 
writers  hate  cold  interviews.  To  talk 
to  an  actress  you'd  never  met;  to 
wonder  whether  all  the  sweet  honey 
words  she  pours  into  your  ears  are 
honest!  Not  to  know  whether  she 
has  her  hand,  beneath  the  table,  on 
the  Bible  or  her  fingers  crossed. 

I  hated  the  though  t  of  seeing  Blond- 
ell like  I  hate  this  summer's  weather. 


By    Ruth    B  i  e  r  y 


A  SECRETARY  in  the  publicity 
department  informed  me  a  man 
was  on  the  set  trying  to  persuade 
Blondell  to  keep  her  appointment. 
My  eyes  widened.  Persuading  her  I 
Persuading  a  Hollywood  actress,  and 
a  comparative  newcomer,  to  talk  about 
herself!  I  decided  the  secretary  must 
have  been  affected  by  the  heat  wave 
which  was  annihilating  Los  Angeles. 
When  the  publicity  man  returned, 
I  pulled  this  one,  with  small  hope  it 
would  take.  "I  feel  terrible  today. 
I  don't  know  Blondell.  I  don't  feel 
equal  to  dragging  dark  secrets  from  an 
unknown  person.  Let's  postpone  this 
until  she's  finished  her  picture." 


Such  Clothes! 


Photoplay's  fashion  authority, 
Seymour,  has  found  some  fas' 
cinating  new  styles  in  Holly- 
wood for  you,  and  you'll  find 
them  in  the 

Special  Fashion  Section 

in  the 

October  Photoplay 

Don't  miss  that  issue 
October,  remember 


A  spasm  of  relief  crossed  his  face.  "All 
right.  We'll  make  it  next  week!"  The 
alacrity  with  which  a  publicity  man,  who 

had  spent  hours  trying  to  sell  a  story  on  Blondell,  accepted  my 

lazy  proposition  made  me  believe  that  the  secretary  might  not 

be  crazy. 

So  trie  publicity  man  and  I  went  to  lunch.     We  were  barely 

seated  when  Blondell  entered.     As  she  passed  our  table,  Mr. 

Publicity  Man,  with  press-agent  instincts  which  simply  couldn't 

be  buried,  jumped  up  and  said,  "  You  two  might  as  well  meet 

each  other." 

BLONDELL  eyed  me  distastefully.    "I've  just  spoiled  seven 
shots.    Seven!    I  just  couldn't  get  it.    I'm  hot  and  I'm  tired 
and  I'm  angry — " 

"  So  am  I !    It's  one  of  those  days  when  I  hate  all  actresses.    I 

want  to  go  to  the  beach.    I  don't  want  to  talk  to  you — " 

She  laughed.    "Gosh.    If  I'd  known  you  felt  like  that,  too — " 

I  turned  to  the  publicity  representative.     "  Beat  it.     We 

won't  do  an  interview.    We'll  just  sympathize  with  each  other 

but  there's  no  reason  why  we  shouldn't  eat  together." 

So  he  removed  his  plate  and  the  waitress  put  down  a  clean 
one  and  Miss  Joan  Blondell  and  I  got 
together  on  that  sympathy  business. 
Catch  'em  when  they're  cross  and 
when  you're  cross  and  you  forget 
about  this  writing,  acting  business. 
You  just  become  two  everyday,  mis- 
used women. 


IMIOULD  say  the  main  thing  that 
is  wrong  with  Blondell  is:  slit's 
not  in  love!  And  any  woman  needs 
to  be  in  love  for  inspiration.  If  the 
love  brings  heart-breaks,  she  has  the 
joy  of  being  miserable  and  "giving 
her  best"  to  her  work  to  pretend  she's 
forgetting.  If  the  love  brings  happi- 
ness she  soars  in  the  heights  and  does 
good  work  because  she  can't  help  it. 
And  Blondell  is  just  at  that  empty 
place  in  between  where  she  is  neither 
miserable  nor  floating! 

You  see,  despite  written  stories  to 
the  contrary  (stories  Joan  probably 
gave  with  fingers  crossed  beneath  the 
table)  she  never  had  sufferings  and 
heartbreaks  and  poverty  when  she 
was  a  youngster.  Her  father,  Ed 
[  PLEASE  TLKN'  TO  PACE  96  ] 

69 


John  Barrymore  goes  for  swanky  ciga- 
rettes at  ten  cents  each  for  evening  wear 


WELL,  here  you  are,  you  hundreds  of  screen  fans 
who  have  written  us  asking  about  the  smoking 
habits  of  Hollywood! 
It  all  started  last  February,  when  our  editorial 
page  carried  a  note  to  the  effect  that  Fredric  March  had  been 
asked  to  swear  off  cigars.  Cigars,  said  the  request,  are  "un- 
romantic" — cigarettes,  on  the  other  hand,  are  "cute" — and 
pipes  are  "manly."  So,  since  Freddie  March  was  getting  a 
great  build-up  as  a  romantic,  heavy -loving  star,  he  was  kindly 
asked  to  give  up  puffing  cheroots  on  the  screen. 

That  started  you  off.  And  did  the  letters  pour  in!  Four 
mailmen  had  nervous  breakdowns  and  strained  backs,  just 
toting  in  your  missives. 

"Let  him  smoke  cigars!"  "No  cigars,  please!"  "Fie!  He 
shouldn't  smoke  at  all!"  "Let  the  boy  smoke  a  herring  if  he 
wants  to!"    So  the  correspondence  raged. 

From  that  it  was  just  a  short  hop  to  "What  does  Marie 
Dressier  smoke,  if  any?"  and  "Does  George  Bancroft  really 
smoke  scented  cigarettes?"  And  poor  little  me — I  was  told 
off,  delegated  and  ordered  to  find  out  the  smoking  preferences 
of  the  actors. 

Well,  here  you  are.  I'm  an  old  and  broken  man,  for  it  was  a 
tough  assignment.  Next  to  "What  do  they  drink?"  and 
"Whom  is  he  goofy  about  now?"  the  smoking  business  was  the 
toughest  thing  I  could  have  tackled. 

There  seems  to  be  a  conspiracy  of  silence  about  this  smoking 
business.  Ask  the  high-priced  gents  who  are  paid  to  get  the 
stars'  names  in  the  papers,  and  they  scream  in  mortal  pain. 

"Goshamighty  and  geewhillikins!"  they  howl.  "You  can't 
print  that.  It'll  spoil  the  illusion!" — which  implies  that  we 
have  any  about  the  ducky  little  actors.  "Goodness  golly,  what 
would  the  folks  in  Kansas  say  if  you  said  that  Ruth  Chatterton 
took  a  puff  now  and  then?"    Those  boys  weren't  much  'ielp. 

Neither  were  some  of  the  actors.     Lots  of  them  strain  a 

70 


Wh 
D 

Th 


at 


o 

ey 


Smoke? 


Norma  Talmadge  gets  her  smokes  all 
rigged  up  in  stripes  like  a  barber  pole 


Illustrated  by  Van  Arsdale 


Fredric  March 
started  it  all  and  now 
we've  got  to  tell  you 
who  smokes  what 
and  how 

By  Cal  York 


ligament  to  keep  folks  from  knowing  they  smoke,  and  what. 
Take  Lickter's,  the  famous  shop  in  Hollywood's  Chinese 
Theater  building,  that  makes  up  cigarettes  to  order.  There's 
a  sure-death  rule  there  that  no  star's  order  is  to  be  given  away 
to  inquirers  or  snoopers. 

One  young  male  star  used  to  sneak  in  at  the  back  door  of 
Lickter's  and  order  two  special  monogrammed  brands — one  for 
himself  and  one  for  his  sweetie-pie.  They're  married  now,  and 
they  smoke  one  of  the  fifteen-cents-a-pack  brand. 

Well,  in  the  face  of  this  embargo  on  information,  I  dug  up  the 
dope  on  a  lot  of  our  boys  and  girls.  To  be  exact,  I  put  the 
finger  on  exactly  170  ladies  and  gentlemen  of  the  silver  screen. 

Of  this  number,  116  confessed  to  enjoying  the  delights  of 
Lady  Nicotine  in  one  form  or  another — though  I  couldn't  line 
up  one  snuff-sniffer  in  all  Hollywood!     Snuff  boxes  are  just 


antiques  out   here!      Shades  of    my    dear    old  grandmother. 

A  little  lightning  arithmetic  and  we  thus  find  that  three  out  of 
four  of  filmdom's  leading  lights  are  puffers,  and  this  includes 
both  men  and  women. 

However,  for  the  sake  of  Freddie  March,  I  must  mention 
here  that  nearly  one-third  of  the  male  smokers  in  Hollywood 
use  cigars  as  well  as  cigarettes — and  many  of  them  are  among 
our  most  romantic  actors,  too!  Take  heart,  Fred — and  have  a 
good  five  cent  cigar!  Off  the  screen!  Or  sneak  a  smoke  with 
the  electricians. 

CIGARETTES,  of  course,  are  a  top-heavy  favorite  with  the 
fuming  contingent,  both  male  and  female,  and  the  vast 
majority  of  them  use  standard  domestic  brands  of  fags,  even  as 
you  and  I.  This  leaves  exactly  sixteen  who  go  for  brands  a 
little  more  exotic,  scented,  decorated  and  swanky  than  the 
sort  I'm  puffing  this  minute. 

All  of  which  is  good  news  for  the  tobacco  industry,  which 
probably  is  never  terribly  depressed.  Take  away  my  bread 
and  jam,  but  leave  my  smokes! 

Now,  how  about  the  boys  and  girls  themselves?  Let's  start 
with  Lupe  Velez — she's  a  good  start  at  any  time.  Funny  about 
Lupe.  Lupe  decided  to  quit  smoking  cigarettes.  So  she  stopped 
buying — pop,  just  like  that!  But  did  that  mean  she  stopped 
smoking?  Not  Lupe — only  didn't  smoke  her  own  for  a  few 
days.  Wherever  she  was  working,  on  the  beach,  at  the  dress- 
makers'— she  always  begs  a  cigarette.  She  probably  smoked 
as  many  of  Gary  Cooper's  as  he  did  himself,  before  their  break. 

Young  Doug  Fairbanks  swore  off  for  a  week  also.  Doug 
will  walk  into  a  group  of  pals,  at  home  or  on  the  lot,  and  say, 
"Gotta  smoke?  Gimme  cigarette!"  Of  course,  his  mates  are 
w'ise  now,  and  they  say  no,  they're  sorry,  just  out.  Whereupon 
Junior  pulls  out  his  own  pack  with  a  resigned  air,  and  lights  up. 
It's  a  gag  with  him.  [  please  turn  to  page  105  ] 

71 


HERE  is  Marian  Marsh, 
who  is  going  to  play  a  lead- 
ing role  in  "Beauty  and  the 
Boss,"  the  scenario  for  which 
Photoplay  and  Warner  Bros, 
have  been  seeking  the  past  four 
months.  Right  now  the  Con- 
test Judges  are  sorting  and 
sifting  thousands  of  manu- 
scripts, the  winner  to  be  an- 
nounced in  an  early  issue  of 
Photoplay.  Lucky  author, 
whose  heroine  will  be  brought 
to  life  in  the  person  of  this 
vivacious  and   beautiful  girl ! 


AND  this  is  Marilyn  Mor- 
gan, before  she  went 
blonde  and  changed  her  name 
to  Marian  Marsh.  Not  quite 
seventeen  then.  Her  triumphs 
as  Trilby  in  "Svengali"  and 
again  with  John  Barrymore  in 
"The  Mad  Genius"  were  still 
before  her.  After  working  on 
"Five  Star  Final,"  Marian  is 
now  playing  the  feminine  lead 
opposite  William  Powell  in 
"The  Road  to  Singapore," 
Bill's  first  picture  under  his 
new  Warner  Bros,  contract 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


73 


P 


rincesses,  duchesses,  ladies  of  proud  old 
foreign  title  . . .  patrician  leaders  of  society  in  our  own  America  . . .  they  share 
one  birthright  of  race  and  breeding  . . .  beautiful  skin,  flawless  as  diamonds 
.  .  .  To  these  women,  to  all  women,  as  Lady  Violet  Astor  says,  "Pond's 
have  done  a  wonderful  service". . .  Miss  Anne  Morgan  says,  "Pond's,  through 
providing  such  excellent  products  so  inexpensively,  helps  women  achieve 


J.  Pond's  Cold  Cream 
is  the  first  step  in  the 
Pond's  Method.  Gen- 
erously apply  as  often 
as  needed  during  the 
day,  always  after  ex- 
posure. Let  the  fineoils 
penetrate  every  pore 
and  float  the  dirt  to 
the  surface.  At  bed- 
time, repeat  this  all- 
important  cleansing  to 
remove  the  day's  ac- 
cumulation of  grime. 


J  To  tone  and  firm 
the  skin  and  keep  the 
pores  fine,  Pond's  Skin 
Freshener  is  simply  in- 
dispensable. When  you 
have  wiped  away  the 
cold  cream,  wet  a  siz- 
able pad  of  cotton  with 
Freshener  and  then  do 
a  brisk  little  tap  dance 
all  over  the  cleansed 
skin.  This  banishes 
lingering  oiliness  and 
dangerof  "shiny  nose." 


"^    2 


To  wipe  away  the 
cream  swiftly,  com- 
pletely, use  Pond's 
Cleansing  Tissues. 
White  or  peach  color. 
They  are  so  much 
softer  and  half  again 
more  absorbent  by 
laboratory  test.  They 
whisk  away  all  cream 
and  with  it  every  ves- 
tige of  dirt,  make-up 
and  powder,  leaving 
your  skin  immaculate. 


F  A  smooth,  well- 
bred  finish  adds  so 
much  to  one's  poise. 
Smooth  on  a  dainty 
film  of  Pond's  Vanish- 
ing Cream  before  you 
powder — face,  neck, 
shoulders,  arms  ...  It 
gives  protection  from 
sun  and  wind  and 
makes  your  powder 
cling  for  hours. . .  An  I 
always  use  it  to  keep 
hands  soft  and  white. 


Jewels  by  Cartier 


an  attractive  appearance". ..  Mrs.  Morgan  Belmont  says,  "Pond's  carries  off 
all  honors  for  its  common  sense  method 
of  home  beauty  care".  ..We  suggest  that 
you,  too,  follow  this  famous  way  to  keep 
your  skin  always  exquisitely  fresh  and  clear. 


Tune  in  on  Pond's  Friday  at  9:30  p.  m.,  e.  d.  s.t.  Leo 
Reisman's  Orchestra.   WEAF  and  N.  B.  C  Network. 

SEND   \o£  FOR  POND'S  FOUR  PREPARATIONS 
pond's  extract  company  •  Dept.  W,  114  Hudson  St.,  N.Y.C. 

Name— Street . 


City. 


-State - 

Copyright.  1931.  Pond's  Extract  Compur 


74 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


MARJORIE  RAMBEAU.  This  lovely  favorite  of  the 
stage,  who  scored  in  such  well-remembered  plays 
as  Daddy's  Gone  A-Hunting,  is  now  a  popular 
screen  star,  appearing  currently  in  The  Secret  Six. 
As  this  recent  photograph  shows,  she  is  so  radiantly 
youthful  it  is  hard,  indeed,  to  believe  her  37! 


LuxToilet 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


75 


f 


Kf> 


cur  ktuxk/l 


vnq 


(sis  •  •  • 


am 


SAYS 


Marjorie  Rambeau 

Famous  Screen  Star  declares 
years  need  not  rob  you  of  Youth 


I 


REALLY  AM  37  years  old,"  says 
Marjorie  Rambeau,  M.  G.  M. 
star.  "And  I  don't  mind  admitting  it 
because  nowadays  it  isn't  birthdays 
that  count. 

"The  woman  who  knows  how  to 
keep  the  lovely  sparkling  freshness 
of  youth  can  be  charming  at  almost 
any  age.  Stage  and  screen  stars,  of 
course,  must  keep  their  youthful 
charm.  It's  youth  that  wins  hearts 
and  youth  that  holds  them. 

"Above  everything  else  stage  and 
screen  stars  guard  complexion  beauty. 


They  know  that  a  skin  softly  smooth 
and  aglow  always  has  irresistible  ap- 
peal. 

"While  on  the  stage  I  discovered 
that  regular  care  with  Lux  Toilet 
Soap  would  do  wonders  for  my  skin 
and  used  it  for  years.  And  now  that 
I  have  the  close-ups  of  the  screen  to 
face  I  certainly  depend  on  it!" 

How  9  out  of  10  Screen  Stars 

guard  complexion  beauty 

In  Hollywood,  where  so  much  de- 
pends on  skin  of  faultless  beauty, 


actually  605  of  the  613  leading  ac- 
tresses use  Lux  Toilet  Soap.  At 
home,  in  their  own  exquisitely  ap- 
pointed bathrooms,  and  on  location, 
too.  For  it  is  official  for  dressing 
rooms  in  all  the  great  film  studios. 
It  is  found  in  theatres  everywhere! 
Important  actresses  the  world  over 
rely  on  this  fragrant  white  soap  for 
safe  complexion  care. 

Surely  your  skin  should  have  this 
gentle  luxurious  care!  You  will  want 
to  keep  it  youthfully  smooth  and 
fresh  just  as  the  famous  stars  do. 


S 


oap 1CK 


76 


VI/'HAT  clo  the  extras  and  "bit"  players  think  about  when  they 
*  *  sit  for  hours  like  this  while  the  make-up  experts  get  them  ready 
for  the  director's  call?  Here  is  an  interesting  scene  caught  by 
Photoplay's  cameraman  behind  the  "Alexander  Hamilton"  set 
at  the  Warner  Bros,  studio.  Note  the  girl  on  the  left  perusing 
the  stock  market  pages  and  also  the  swell  lookers  on  the  right 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


77 


What  does  this  seal  mean 

when  it's  placed  on  a  toothpaste? 

It  means,  Madam,  that  this  toothpaste  has  been  accepted  by  the 
Council  on  Dental  Therapeutics,  American  Dental  Association 


MADAM,  this  seal  is  the  most 
authoritative  answer  to  the 
question  "what  toothpaste  should 
I  use?"  It  is  placed  only  on  tooth- 
pastes that  have  been  accepted  by 
the  Council  on  Dental  Therapeu- 
tics of  the  American  Dental  As- 
sociation. 

What  is  the  Council  on 
Dental  Therapeutics? 

This  council  is  composed  of  13 
prominent  men  of  science,  ap- 
pointed by  the  American  Dental 
Association,  chosen  for  their  out- 
standing ability  in  various 


branches  of  modern  dentistry.  Its 
purpose  is  to  analyze  the  compo- 
sition of  dental  products,  such  as 
toothpastes,  and  pass  upon  the 
claims  that  are  made  for  them. 
The  Council  has  no  interest  what- 
soever in  the  sale  of  a  product. 
Its  only  interest  is  to  serve  the 
dental  profession  and  the  public 
— to  act  as  a  guide. 

Be  guided  by  this  seal 

The  seal  identifies  products  which 
have  been  passed  on  by  the  Coun- 
cil. Therefore,  look  for  it,  when 
you  buy  a  toothpaste.  It  is  your 
most  authoritative  guide. 


and  Colgate's  costs  but  ^jJjC 


COLGATE'S 

BEARS  THIS  SEAL 


ICCEPTED 


IMERICAN 

DlENTAL 
'Assoc 
A.112 


kON 

JhERaPEuTIC 


SSOCIAi 
TION, 


Climaxing  30 
years  of  leader- 
ship, Colgate's 
Ribbon  Dental 
Cream  has  been 
accepted  by  the 
American  Dental 
Association,  Coun- 
cil on  Dental  Therapeutics.  Colgate's  has 
been  more  universally  recommended  by 
dentists  through  the  years  than  any  other 
toothpaste  ever  made. 

This  famous  dentifrice  stands  alone.  It 
has  healthfully  and  completely  cleansed 
more  people's  teeth  than  any  other  denti- 
frice in  the  world. 

Colgate's  sells  for  a  low  price  —  but 
only  because  it  is  sold  in  overwhelming 
volume.  It  is  the  quality  of  Colgate's  — 
and  quality  alone  —  that  has  held  its 
leadership  for  years  and  years. 

Be  guided  by  the  seal  of  acceptance. 
Use  Colgate's  to  keep  your  teeth  health- 
fully and  completely  clean. 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  49  ] 


Maurice  felt  sick  about  his  screen  career  until  Old  Herr  Doktor  Lubitsch 
gave  him  high-class  treatment  with  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant."  Back 
came  his  popularity  and  smile.    Here  he  is  leaving  for  that  dear  France 

with  the  missus 


A  FEW  separations:  Dorothy  Lee  and 
press-agent  Jimmy  Fidler,  whom  she  mar- 
ried last  fall,  are  separated  and  they  admit  that 
a  divorce  is  on  the  way  .  .  .  nobody  in  Holly- 
wood thought  it  would  last,  anyhow.  .  .  . 
Dorothy's  been  seen  places  with  blond  Mar- 
shall Duffield,  U.  S.  C.  football  star.  .  .  .  Rex 
Lease  and  his  recent  bride,  Eleanor  Hunt,  re- 
ported separated  for  the  second  time  since 
their  wedding  two  months  ago  .  .  .  but  both 
say  it's  only  a  little  tiff.  .  .  .  Robert  Arm- 
strong and  his  wife  Jeanne  Kent,  dancer,  sep- 
arate after  five  years  of  matrimony  .  .  . 
Charles  (Black  Crow)  Mack  and  his  wife  Mar- 
ian reported  separated  .  .  .  positively  decline 
to  discuss  it.  .  .  .  Mack  says,  "Why  bring 
that  up?" 

T  OVE  and  things  like  that:  Bh  (printer, 
-'-'that's  really  the  way  he  spells  it)  Rogers, 
brother  of  Charles  (Used  to  be  Buddy)  Rogers, 

78 


married  in  St.  Louis  to  Marajen  Stevick  of 
Champaign,  111.  .  .  .  Chester  Moorhead,  first 
husband  of  Connie  Bennett,  who  eloped  with 
her  in  1921  only  to  have  the  wedding  annulled 
in  1923,  tries  marriage  again.  .  .  .  Armand 
Kaliz  is  separating  from  Madeline  Weiner  to 
whom  he  was  married  for  three  weeks.  .  .  . 
Raquel  Torres  and  Charles  Feldman,  an  attor- 
ney, will  be  saying  "I  do"  pretty  soon.  .  .  . 

IT  won't  be  pepper  and  ginger  any  more. 
Ginger  Rogers  got  a  divorce  from  Jack  Pepper. 
.  .  .  Irene  Delroy  promised  to  love,  honor  and 
maybe  obey,  William  Austin,  whom  the  papers 
call  a  prominent  club  man.  He's  from  Phila- 
delphia and  a  blue  blood.  .  .  .  H.  H.  Van 
Loan  declared  that  he  couldn't  pay  his  ali- 
mony because  he  was  out  of  work  and  had 
been  living  on  borrowed  money.  .  .  .  Mrs. 
Van  Loan  said  that  Van  was  in  love  with 
Marjorie  Rambeau. 


A  LUNCHEON  foursome  at  the  Montmartre 
**in  Hollywood  the  other  day  consisted  of 
Janet  Gaynor  and  her  hubby  Lydell  Peck  and 
Charlie  Farrell  and  his  wife  Virginia  Valli.  .  .  . 
Clark  Gable  and  Ria  Langham  married  at  Santa 
Ana,  California  .  .  .  they  said  they  had  mar- 
ried before  a  little  more  than  a  year  ago  in  the 
East,  but  were  doing  it  again  because  legality 
of  former  marriage  was  menaced  by  Clark's 
divorce  not  having  been  final  at  that  time  .  .  . 
his  second  marriage;  her  third  .  .  .  he,  thirty, 
she,  forty-one,  according  to  the  papers.  .  .  . 
Greta  Garbo  laughs,  or  nearly  so,  at  news- 
paper dispatch  from  Stockholm  saying  she 
was  to  go  there  this  year  to  wed  a  man  named 
Anderson  .  .  .  "maybe,"  she  says,  "I  could 
marry  a  man  named  Smith,  here,  heh?"  .  .  . 
Lola  Lane  was  peeved  at  stories  that  she  and 
Lew  Ayres  were  not  that  way  any  more  .  .  . 
she  says  they  still  are! 

STORK  assignments:  Alan  Mowbray,  Eng- 
lish actor  who  played  the  role  of  George 
Washington,  father  of  his  country,  in  "Alex- 
ander Hamilton,"  becomes  a  father.  .  .  .  Dor- 
othy Dwan,  now  Mrs.  Paul  N.  Boggs,  Jr.,  re- 
tired from  the  screen  since  her  marriage,  ad- 
mits she'll  be  a  mother  this  fall.  .  .  .  Joan 
Crawford  persistently  denying  the  persistent 
rumor  that  she,  too,  expects  the  Blessed  Event. 
.  .  .  There'll  be  a  son  and  heir  at  the  Reginald 
Denny's.  .  .  .  Shirley  Mason,  Viola  Dana's 
sister,  presented  her  husband,  director  Sidney 
Landfield,  with  a  daughter  and  she  says  she's 
coming  back  to  the  screen. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  80  ] 


Charles  "Front  Page"  MacArthur  and 
the  famous  "Act  of  God"  baby. 
Helen  Hayes,  Mrs.  MacArthur  to  you, 
broke  her  contract  under  an  "Act  of 
God"  clause  of  the  contract  when 
baby  was  born,  and  made  those  stage 
producers  like  it.  Well,  if  that  dar- 
ling baby  isn't,  nothing  is 


79 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 

Demand  to  know 


what  complexion  soaps  are  made  of 

Palmolive  tells  you 


Read  why  these  beauty  experts— and 
20,000  others— advise  Palmolive 


C ARSTEN  of  Berlin 
"The  olive  and  palm 
oils  in  Palmolive  Soap 
leave  the  surface  of 
the  skin  in  the  best 
possible  condition." 


SEILER  of  Geneva 

"We  advise  Palmolive 
because  of  its  safe, 
soothing  vegetable  oil 
content.  It  provides 
thorough  cleansing." 


ECHTEN  of  Budapest 
"Palmolive  Soap  is 
the  finest  natural  skin 
cleanser  known  and, 
at  the  same  time,  a 
valuable  emollient." 


EUGENIO  of  Milan 

"Vegetable  oils  —  as 
embodied  in  Palmolive 
Soap  —  are  your  best 
protection  against 
skin  irritation." 


MASSE  of  Pari, 
Every  woman  should 
aid  her  beauty  expert 
by  using  Palmolive. 
Its  vegetable  oil  con- 
tent is  safe,  soothing." 


BERTHA  JACOBSON 
of  London 

"I  warn  against  the 
harsh  effects  of  soaps 
not  made  of  olive  and 
palm  oils.  Use  Palm- 
olive to  retain  beauty." 


HELEN  MO.NER 
of  Cleveland 

"Soap  and  water?  Of 
course,  every  skin 
needs  them.  But  be 
particular.  We  specify 
Palmolive." 


HEPNER 
of  Hollywood 

"It  is  the  vegetable 
oils  of  olive  and  palm 
that  make  Palmolive 
so  soothing." 


ROBERT  of  Pari* 
Washington,  D.  C. 

"Use  Palmolive  and 
you  will  be  giving 
your  beauty  specialist 
the  greatest  help." 


\Cuf>  ikaJh 


Palmolive  Soap 

is  made  of 

olive  and  palm  oils 

MADAM — just  a  moment  before  you  buy 
that  soap.  Is  it  for  your  complexion? 
Then  by  all  means  ask  what  it  is  made  of. 
Use  no  soap  on  your  face  until  you  know. 

Don't  let  "beauty"  claims  confuse  you. 
Many  soaps  promise  to  "beautify."  But  ana- 
lyze their  claims.  Any  of  them.  Do  such 
soaps  tell  you  they  are  made  of  cosmetic 
oils?  No. — Olive  and  palm  oils?  No. — Vege- 
table oils?  No. —  Few  soaps  tell  you  what 
they  are  made  of. 

Palmolive  tells  you 

Palmolive  is  made  of  olive  and  palm  oils. 
That  is  very  important  in  facial  care. 
Palmolive  contains  no  artificial  coloring.  No 
heavy  "masking"  perfume.  Palmolive  has 
no  secrets. 

It  is  a  pure  soap — as  pure  and  wholesome 
as  the  complexions  it  fosters.  So  pure,  in  fact, 
that  more  than  20,000  beauty  experts  the 
world  over  have  united  in  recommending  it. 

Because  these  experts — 20,000  of  them — 
know  what  Palmolive  is  made  of,  they 
recommend  its  use.  They  believe  in  Palm- 
olive Soap.  They  know  it  is  made  of  vege- 
table oils  —  no  other  fats  whatever.  They 
know  it  is  different  —  in  cosmetic  effect  — 
from  inferior  soaps  merely  "claimed"  to  be 
beautifiers. 

Guard  your  complexion.  When  tempted  to 
use  ordinary  soaps  —  remember  —  ask  first 
what  they  are  made  of. 


Retail  Price  10c 


\loraJrJlsu/juo^ny 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast   from    Hollywood 


GOING  together  places:  Una  Merkel  and 
John  Arledge;  Phillips  Holmes  and  Ethel 
(formerMrs.  Eddie)  Sutherland ;Mervin  LeRoy 
and  Ginger  Rogers;  Marie  Prevost  and  Buster 
Collier  (still) ;  Jack  Oakie  and  Mary  Brian  and 
Mary  Brian  and  Russell  Gleason;  Wesley  Rug- 
gles  and  Arline  Judge;  Thelma  Todd  and  Abe 
Lyman;  David  Manners  and  Sylvia  Sidney. 
And  Fifi  Dorsay,  in  Chicago  at  the  beginning 
of  her  vaudeville  tour  which  will  keep  her 
from  Hollywood  for  four  months,  says  of  her 
reported  betrothal  to  Terry  Ray,  "Ooo,  sure 
we  are  engage' — but  maree?  No!  We  shall 
stay  engage'  for  twenty  year,  maybe,  but  not 
maree.  Engagements  are  so  nize,  but  mar- 
riage interfere  wiz  ze  career!" 

SOME  more  Cupid  check-ups:    Nancy  Car- 
roll, having  divorced  Hubby  Jack  Kirkland, 
newspaper  man,  marries  Bolton  Mallory,  ed- 


'  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  78  ] 

itor  of  Life  .  .  .  Jack's  friends  say  he's  still 
in  love  with  Nancy,  but  he  and  Louise  Allen 
of  "The  Little  Show"  have  been  holding  hands, 
lately.  .  .  .  Joan  Peers,  swanson-like  little 
leading  lady,  is  revealed  as  a  Mrs.  .  .  .  her 
hubby  is  Christy  Allen,  bond  broker.  .  .  .  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  William  Powell  honeymoon  in  Hono- 
lulu. .  .  .  the  Ben  Lyons  and  the  Warner  Bax- 
ters and  others  also  Honoluluing.  .  .  .  Mar- 
celine  Day  tries  vainly  to  keep  secret  her  wed- 
ding to  Arthur  K.  Klein,  Hollywood  furrier 
.  .  .  they  did  it  twice ;  first  wedding  in  Mexico 
was  only  perhaps  legal,  so  they  remarried  in 
New  York.  .  .  .  Prince  Troubetzkoy,  Holly- 
wood actor,  variously  reported  seen  places  with 
this  or  that  actress,  gets  desertion  divorce  from 
his  wife,  a  dancer. 

"CUGENIA  BANKHEAD,  frequently  mar- 
*— 'rying  sister  of  the  unmarried  Tallulah  Bank- 
head,  takes  on  her  sixth  husband.  .  .  .  "Lefty" 
Flynn, ex-husband  of  Viola  Dana,  as  well  as  two 
other  ex-wives,  has  made  a  fourth  marital  leap 
.  .  .  Mrs.  Flynn  No.  4  was  Mrs.  Paul  Phipps 


After  repeated  denials,  the  Lawrence  Tibbetts  have  finally  admitted  that  "fame 
and  family  happiness  are  not  consistent,"  and  have  separated.  They  are  shown 
above  with  their  twin  sons  as  they  arrived  in  Beverly  Hills  only  a  month  or  two  ago 

80  2 


Stage  producers  said  Marjorie  Ram- 
beau  was  temperamental  and  irre- 
sponsible on  the  stage  where  she 
reigned  as  a  beauty  a  few  years  ago. 
She's  showing  those  youngsters  how 
real  acting  is  done,  in  the  studios, 
never  misses  a  cue,  and  is  always  on 
time  in  Hollywood.    Some  comeback ! 


of  London,  with  whom  he  had  a  romance 
seventeen  years  ago.  .  .  .  She  is  Lady 
Astor's  sister.  .  .  .  John  McCormick,  Col- 
leen Moore's  ex-husband,  has  separated  from 
his  bride  of  a  month,  saying  he  still  loves  Col- 
leen. .  .  .  But  Colleen  won't  marry  him  again. 
.  .  .  Elsie  Janis  denies  published  reports  she 
plans  to  marry  Gilbert  Wilson,  actor.  .  .  .  Mae 
Clarke,  once  engaged  to  John  McCormick, 
mentioned  above,  will  marry  Henry  Freulich, 
photographer  of  screen  stars.  .  .  .  Lloyd  Ham- 
ilton ordered  to  pay  $15,000  back  alimony  or 
go  to  jail. 

EILEEN  PERCY,  now  Hollywood 
correspondent  for  Paul  Block's 
newspapers,  and  a  good  one,  tells  this 
one  on  William  Haines.  Haines,  you 
must  know  by  this  time,  runs  an  an- 
tique shop  in  Hollywood. 

The  other  day,  Leila  Hyams  was  in 
his  shop. 

Bill  knew  she  was  furnishing  a 
beach  house  and  friends  are  friends 
but  sales  are  sales. 

"Look  at  this  lovely  old  grand- 
father's clock,"  he  said  to  her.  It  was 
a  splendid  looking  piece.  "A  hundred 
and  fifty  years  old  and  all  original,  no 
reconstruction.  Original  mechanism, 
and  it  runs  perfectly." 

Just  then,  the  clock  struck  nine- 
teen! 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  84  ] 


r"-T 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


81 


I  MODESS 

perfect  summer  comfort  at  a  special  summer  price 


IF  you  use  Modess,  you  know  how- 
safe  and  soft  it  is — how  cool  and 
clean  it  feels.  If  you  haven't  tried  it, 
now's  your  chance.  Our  summer 
offer — featured  as  Modess  Vacation 
Special — is  a  grand  buy.  You  get  a 
Travel  Package  of  six  Modess  Com- 
pact and  two  boxes  of  Modess  Regu- 
lar for  79c.  The  standard  price  of 
these  3  boxes  is  $1.15- 

The  two  types  of  Modess  featured 
in  the  Vacation  Special  are  a  perfect 
combination  for  summer  comfort. 
Modess  Regular  is  standard  thick- 
ness. The  Compact  is  Modess  Regu- 
lar, gently  compressed.  It  is  designed 
to  supplement  the  Regular  at  times 
when  less  thickness  is  desired. 

The  Travel  Package  certainly  has 
its  uses.   You  won't  begrudge  the 


space  it  takes  in  a  travel  bag.  As  a 
reserve  package  for  guest  use  it  will 
add  to  your  reputation  as  a  perfect 
hostess.  You'll  find  it  a  great  con- 
venience many  times  during  the 
summer. 

You  can  really  wear  Modess  with- 
out worrying  about  it  in  any  way. 
The  cool,  evenly  absorbent  filler— 
besides  being  safe  and  comfortable — 
fits  so  smoothly  that  Modess  won't 
spoil  the  line  of  any  frock. 

If  you're  a  thrifty  soul  you'll  buy 
several  of  these  useful  combinations, 
and  save  them  for  future  use. 

0   NEW  BRUNSWICK.   (J     N.  J..  U.S.  A. 
World's  largest  maters  of  surgical  dressings, 
bandages,  Rid  Cross  absorbent  cotton,  etc. 


VACATION 
SPECIAL 

You  save  on  every  purchase 
during  July  and  August 

2    BOXES    OF   MODESS     .     .     .     9  Ot 
12  Regular  in  each 

1    TRAVEL    PACKAGE     ....      2  5<^ 

6  Modest  Compact  ^~~^^~ 

Total  Value   $1.15 


ALL    THREE    FOR 


79' 


82 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


Thrill  to  this  glorious  treat 

FEEL  YOUR  PULSE  leap  to  the  thrills  of  life.  Put  vim  in  your 
work  and  pep  in  your  play.  Help  yourself  to  health  with 
Kellogg's  PEP  Bran  Flakes. 

What  a  wonderful  combination  these  better  bran  flakes  are! 
They're  made  of  three  vital  elements.  Bran  to  help  keep  you  fit 
and  regular  —  just  enough  to  be  mildly  laxative.  Whole  wheat 
for  nourishment— r for  vim  and  zest.  And  PEP  —  the  marvelous 
flavor  that  only  Kellogg's  PEP  Bran  Flakes  have  —  to  put  new 
joy  into  eating.  Look  how  sun-brown  and  crispy  they  are !  Taste 
them!    No  wonder  they're  called  better  bran  Hakes. 

Serve  them  with  milk  or  cream.  Add  fruit  or  honey  for  extra 
zest.  Have  them  for  lunch  when  the  day  is  hot.  Young  folks  love 
them  at  the  evening  meal  and  after-school  lunches.  Men  folks 
say  they're  great  for  a  bedtime  snack. 

Made  by  Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek.  Sold  at  all  grocers  in  the 
red-and-green  package. 


tftM*. 


PEP 


BRAN    FLAKES 


Serve 

Hot 

Breads 


Delicious   Muffins 

Are   Easy   To 

Bake 


THE  first  slice  from  a  loaf  of  hot  bread 
emerging  from  the  oven  used  to  be  a 
childhood  thrill.  Certainly  it  is  one  the 
modern  child  rarely  experiences,  what 
with  modern  bakeries  and  lack  of  time  making 
the  homemade  loaf  of  bread  a  rarity.  How- 
ever, in  its  place  we  have  muffins,  popovers  and 
other  hot  breads  that  delight  the  heart  of 
modern  cooks.  And  when  you  eat  them  piping  hot  at  the  table, 
who  is  to  say  that  the  new  order  isn't  the  best? 

Bran  is  a  vital  health  product  that  is  playing  a  more  and 
more  important  role  in  the  affairs  of  the  kitchen.  Bran  muffins 
at  any  meal  of  the  day  are  a  real  delicacy.  Many  of  the  stars 
find  bran  valuable  in  regulating  their  rather  rigid  diets.  Laura 
La  Plante  recommends  the  following  bran  muffin  recipe  as  a 
great  favorite  of  hers. 

2  tablespoons  of  shortening     1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
l/i  cup  sugar  1  cup  flo  n 

1  egg  Yi  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  \^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  bran 

First,  cream  the  shortening  and  sugar  together.  Then  add 
the  egg.  Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  soda,  salt  and  baking  powder. 
Next  add  the  bran  to  the  creamed  mixture;  then  add  the  milk 
alternately  with  the  sifted  dry  ingredients.     Pour  into  muffin 


Joseph  Schlund,  chef  of  the  Paramount 

studio   cafe,   gives   Frances  Dee  a   few 

valuable  pointers  on  muffins.     Frances 

evidently  enjoys  it! 


pans  that  have  been  greased.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  This  recipe  will  make  eight  large,  or  twelve 
medium  size  muffins. 

YOUNG  brides  are  always  having  fun  poked  at  them  because 
of  their  inexperience;  some  of  them  are  excellent  cooks  but 
.■very  once  in  a  while  one  does  make  a  terrific  and  funny  mis- 
take. A  bride  I  know,  who  later  turned  out  to  be  a  wonderful 
cook,  broiled  the  first  muffins  she  ever  made! 

If  your  taste  doesn't  run  to  bran  muffins,  you  can  go  out  into 
the  kitchen  and  whip  up  a  batch  of  delicious  ones  after  a  recipe 
of  Sally  Blane's.  Sally,  whom  you  all  know  as  one  of  the  lovely 
sisters  of  Loretta  Young,  has  quite  a  reputation  for  her  muffins. 
The  recipe  is  as  follows: 


Photoplay  Magazine 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous 
Cook  Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the 
stars.    I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


1  cup  white  flour 

1  cup  graham  flour 

Y<i  cup  chopped  pecan  meats 

Y±  teaspoon  salt 


2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  milk 

2  eggs 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter 


Mix  the  chopped  nuts  with  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk. 
Beat  eggs  well,  and  add  to  mixture.  Melt  the  butter  and  stir  in 
last.  Half  fill  muffin  tin,  place  in  warm  oven  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

In  serving  muffins,  be  sure  that  they  do  not  cool  before  they 
reach  the  table.  Placing  them  in  a  basket  with  a  napkin  over 
them  will  keep  them  perfectly,  until  ready  to  serve.  I  think, 
too,  th  it  half  the  joy  of  hot  breads  is  to  have  jam,  marmalade 
or  jelly  to  spread  on  them. 

Those  of  you  who  cherish  your  afternoon  tea  find  no  more 
tempting  dish  than  muffins  and  jam — and  you  need  not  hesitate 
to  serve  it  to  a  king! 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  80 


K^^HHPbT <  'a&l'  ■/»>      \&. 

fee-      ^ 

Bb?''       *  ^ 

'4-  "<•»->*" 

**BggM^<M  j 

Irene  Delroy,  Broadway  beauty, 
didn't  knock  Hollywood  cold  as  an 
actress.  But  she's  in  the  Philadelphia 
social  register  now  as  Mrs.  Wm. 
Liseter  Austin,  Jr.,  wife  of  a  rich  and 
handsome  lad  of  blue  blood.  The 
smile  is  genuine,  of  course 


WEBER  and  Fields  are  trying  to  get  Marie 
Dressier  for  a  new  stage  musical  show. 
But  Marie  won't  leave  Hollywood.  .  .  . 
They're  going  to  try  musicals  again  in  the 
movies.  Hollywood  is  planning  twenty- three 
features  for  the  coming  year.  .  .  .  Garbo  has 
walked  off  the  "Susan  Lenox"  set  six  times. 
She  hasn't  liked  the  story — not  even  after 
twenty  writers  worked  on  it.  .  .  .  Ina  Claire 
hasn't  a  telephone  in  her  beach  house.  .  .  . 
After  a  long  retirement  Virginia  Valli,  Mrs. 
Charlie  Farrell,  if  you  please,  is  playing  a  lead 
in  a  picture  called  "Night  Life  in  Reno."  But 
it  doesn't  mean  anything's  wrong  between 
Charlie  and  Virginia  and  it  isn't  even  ominous, 
you  rumor  hounds. 

BILL  HAINES  decorated  Leila  Hyams'  new 
Beverly  Hills  mansion.  He  had  to  hurry 
to  finish  Joan  Crawford's  dressing  room.  .  .  . 
Theda  Bara  plans  to  make  a  film  comeback. 
She'll  show  these  pikers  what  IT  really  is.  .  .  . 
Bela  Lugosi  is  no  longer  a  Hungarian  actor. 
He  became  an  American  citizen  in  the  Los 
Angeles  courts  a  few  weeks  ago.  .  .  .  Jean 
Harlow  is  taking  voice  culture.  .  .  .  John 
Miljan  is  a  bad-nasty,  dirty  old  villain  on  the 
screen.  His  off-screen  hobby  is  breeding 
canary  birds.  .  .  .  Montreal  has  a  Shearer 
Street.  No,  it's  not  named  after  Norma.  It's 
named  for  Norma's  father.  He  runs  a  lumber 
business  there.  .  .  .  Illusion  destruction  No. 
15,729:  Adolphe  Menjou's  favorite  dish  is 
corned  beef  and  cabbage.  .  .  .  Jack  Gilbert  is 
a  backgammon  addict.  .  .  .  J.  Stuart  Blackton, 


once  a  millionaire  part  owner  of  and  director  of 
the  old  Vitagraph  Company,  is  bankrupt. 

THE  rumor  still  persists  that  Paramount 
isn't  going  to  renew  Nancy  Carroll's  con- 
tract. .  .  .  Though  you  and  you  and  you  and 
I  have  considered  them  that  for  some  time, 
Warners  have  now  officially  made  Eddie 
Robinson  and  James  Cagney  stars.  .  .  . 
"Smart  Money,"  with  both  of  them,  was  one 
of  the  pictures  the  King  of  Siam  insisted  upon 
seeing  at  a  recent  "command"  performance. 
...  A  suit  in  municipal  court  complains  that 
Priscilla  Dean  and  Leslie  K.  Arnold  didn't  pay 
the  last  month's  rent  for  the  apartment  they 
occupied  before  their  marriage  was  declared 
illegal. 

GARY  COOPER  is  mad  at  Paramount  for 
not  giving  him  better  stories.  The  studio 
hasn't  heard  from  him  since  he  went  to  Italy 
on  his  vacation.  They're  wondering  if  he'll  be 
back. .  .  .  Norma  Shearer  and  Irving  Thalberg — 
not  forgetting  the  baby — are  backfromEurope. 
.  .  .  Kenneth  Harlan,  Marie  Prevost's  ex,  had 


to  explain  a  noisy  party  to  the  judge.  He  was 
fined  S25  for  disturbing  the  peace.  Dorothy 
Webb  paid  $50  and  her  thirty-day  jail  sentence 
was  suspended.  .  .  .  Pola  Negri  keeps  an 
almost  life-size  photographic  enlargement  of 
Rudolph  Valentino  in  her  ultra-modernistic 
dressing  room.  .  .  .  Duncan  Renaldo,  the  boy 
of  "Trader  Horn,"  established  the  fact  that  he 
was  born  in  the  United  States  and,  as  a  citizen, 
may  remain  here. 

IN  spite  of  the  fact  that  Russell 
Gleason  has  been  sending  June 
Collyer  whole  boxes  full  of  gardenias 
for  months  and  months,  Hollywood 
suspected  she  was  going  to  be  Mrs. 
Stuart  Erwin  and  sure  enough,  on 
July  22,  June  and  Stuart  were 
married  in  Yuma,  Arizona,  June's 
brothers,  Richard  and  Clayton  Heer- 
mance,  being  the  only  witnesses. 

Stuart  may  play  dumb  roles  on  the 
screen  but  off-celluloid  he's  evidently 
not  so  dumb. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  88  ] 


William  Wallace  Reid  was  a  little  fellow  when  his  father,  Wally,  was  the 

idol  of  the  screen.    He's  a  big  boy  now,  but  he  doesn't  want  to  be  an  actor. 

He  wants  to  be  an  air  pilot,  of  course 


8k 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


8S 


Okinner's  Silks  combine  the 
perfect  texture  and  draping 
qualities  needed  to  visualize 
and  appreciate  a  new  model 
long  before  the  lines  of  the  dress  are  actually  completed." 

.  .  .  Adrian 


OTYLE  is  greatly  enhanced  by  the  right  material. 
Many  of  the  gowns  you  admire  on  the  screen  owe 
their  success  in  no  small  measure  to  the  charm  of 
Skinner's  Silks. 

Crepes  of  lovely  dull  texture  for  daytime  or  eve- 
ning .  .  .  satins  that  drape  gracefully  in  lustrous 
folds  . .  .  georgettes  and  chiffons  for  frocks  of  flat- 
tering softness . . .  these  have  made  the  name  Skinner 
a    favorite   with    Hollywood    costume   designers. 

The  smartness  of  Dorothy  Jordan's  dress,  here 
shown,  is  typical  of  the  creations  of  Adrian  which 
have  so  influenced  the  world  of  fashion. 

WILLIAM  SKINNER  &  SONS 

New  York        Chicago        Boston        Philadelphia        San  Francisco 
Mills.  Holyoke,  Mass.  Estab.  1848 


Skinner's 


Crepes 
Crepe  Satins 


Silk 


Georgettes 
Shantungs 


Chiffons 
Sport  Fabrics 


Obtainable  by  the  yard  at  leading  silk  departments.  Also 
in   ready-to-wear  dresses  and  ensembles  at  smart  shops. 

"LOOK  FOR  THE  NAME  IN  THE  SELVAGE' 


JHooeli 


mas 


t 


LYlXj 

erpleces 


0 


uestions 


tf  A 


nswers 


Read  This  Before 
Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call 
for  unduly  long  answers, 
such  as  synopses  of  plays. 
Do  not  inquire  concerning 
religion,  scenario  writing, 
or  studio  employment. 
Write  on  only  one  side  of 
the  paper.  Sign  your  full 
name  and  address.  If  you 
want  a  personal  reply,  be 
sure  to  enclose  a  stamped, 
self-addressed     envelope. 


Casts  and 
Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much 
space,  we  treat  such  sub- 
jects in  a  different  way  from 
other  questions.  For  this 
kind  of  information,  a 
stamped,  addressed  en- 
velope must  always  be  sent. 
Address  all  inquiries  to 
Questions  and  Answers, 
Photoplay  Magazine,  221 
W.57th  St.,NewYork  City. 


Too  saccharine,  some  folks  say,  but  the  audiences  are 
calling  for  more  like  "Daddy  Long  Legs" 


WARNER  BAXTER  comes  out  on  top 
this  month.  He  made  such  a  hit  in 
"Daddy  Long  Legs"  that  many  girls 
have  confessed  they  want  to  adopt  him  for  a 
guardian.  Warner  has  been  up  and  down  the 
ladder  of  fame  since  he  started  to  make  pictures 
in  1921.  Although  he  always  gave  a  good  per- 
formance in  the  roles  assigned  to  him,  his  popu- 
larity began  to  wane.  Then  he  appeared  in 
"Ramona"  and  the  fans  began  to  take  notice 
again.  "In  Old  Arizona"  marked  his  talkie 
debut  and  placed  him  among  the  favorites  of  the 
talking  screen.  Bom  in  Columbus,  Ohio,  on 
March  29, 1891,  he  stands  5  feet,  11,  weighs  165 
and  has  dark  brown  hair  and  brown  eyes. 
Graduated  from  the  Ohio  State  University  and 
had  12  years  of  stage  training.  In  1917  he 
married  Winifred  Bryson.  Warner's  latest  re- 
lease is  "The  Squaw  Man"  for  which  Fox 
loaned  him  to  M-G-M. 

Elenora  Parks,  Fort  Worth,  Tex.— Bet 
you're  glad  that  your  two  favorites  are  married 
to  each  other!  Bebe  was  born  in  Dallas,  Tex., 
on  January  14,  1901,  and  Ben  was  born  in 
Atlanta,  Ga.,  on  February  6,  1901. 

D.  J.  H. — The  picture  you  refer  to  in  the 
June  issue  showed  John  Mack  Brown  and  Joan 
Crawford  in  a  scene  from  "Complete  Surren- 
der," which  was  taken  from  the  play  "The 
Torch  Song."  The  title  of  this  picture,  how- 
ever, was  changed  to  "Laughing  Sinners"  and 
the  picture  was  partly  remade  with  Clark 
Gable  playing  the  role  that  John  had. 

L.  M.  White,  Minneapolis,  Minn. — 
Mickey  Mouse  receives  his  fan  mail  at  the 
Walt  Disney  Studios,  in  Hollywood,  Calif. 
This  pint-sized  comedian  has  the  largest  fan 
following  of  any  of  the  talkie  stars.  He  is 
known  as  "Miki  Kuchi,"  in  Japan;  "Mikael 
Muss,"  in  Greece;  "Michele  Topolino,"  in 
Italy;  "Miguel  Rato,"  in  Portugal  and 
"Michel  Souris,"  in  France.  Walt  Disney  is 
Mickey's  lord  and  master. 

Mary  Horton,  Youngstown,  O. — This  is 
one  time  that  "Mother  Didn't  Know  Best," 
but  don't  be  too  hard  on  her.  William  Powell 
was  married  once  before  he  wed  Carole  Lom- 
bard. His  first  wife  was  Eileen  Wilson  and  he 
has  a  young  son  by  that  union. 

Phyllis  Davis,  Syracuse,  Kan. — Phyllis, 
one  of  the  reasons  that  Joan  Crawford  and 
Doug,  Jr.,  do  not  appear  in  a  picture  together, 

86 


is  that  they  are  under  contract  to  different 
studios.  Joan  was  born  on  March  23,  1908, 
and  Doug  on  December  9,  1907.  Joan  is  5 
feet,  4  inches  tall  and  Doug  stands  6  feet. 

Helen  Shaffer,  New  York. — Alexander 
Kirkland,  who  appeared  with  Tallulah  Bank- 
head  in  "Tarnished  Lady"  is  a  native  of 
Mexico  City,  Mex.  He  was  educated  at  the 
Taft  School  in  Watertown  and  the  Pennsyl- 
vania Academy  of  Fine  Arts.  Alex  is  the 
grandson  of  Rear  Admiral  Alexander  Kirkland. 
His  favorite  sports  are  tennis,  rowing  and 
swimming. 


The  Answer  Man's 
Beard  Gets  Whiter ! 

Will  you  give  me  a  list  of  all  the 
blondes  in  Hollywood? — J.  R., 
Oklahoma. 

Is  it  true  that  Mitzi  Green  is  20 
years  old  and  a  dwarf? — H.  M., 
Watertown,  N.  Y. 

Do  you  know  of  any  male  or 
female  star  who  would  lend  a 
young  man  $10,000  to  invest  in  a 
farm,  paying  back  annually? — R. 
B.,  Wisner,  Neb. 

Was  Charlie  Chaplin  once  Mary 
Pickford's  husband? — D.  S.,  Tor- 
onto, Can. 

I  vote  for  "The  Subway  Jam"  as 
the  best  picture  for  1930.  Please 
send  me  the  Gold  Medal. — Betty, 
Lafayette,  Ind. 

The  following  quotation  ap- 
peared in  a  picture — "A  bottle  of 
milk  for  Mrs.  O'Reilly."  What 
was  the  name  of  the  picture? — 
Peg  from  Chicago. 

What  was  the  make,  calibre, 
serial  number,  etc.  of  the  guns 
used  in  "Trader  Horn"? — Roland, 
Mexico  City. 


E.  J.  Hines,  Jr.,  Cruge,  Miss. — Here  are  a 
few  of  the  pictures  Lew  Ayres  has  appeared  in: 
"The  Kiss,"  "All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front," 
"Common  Clay,"  "The  Doorway  to  Hell," 
"Up  for  Murder,"  and  "The  Iron  Man." 
Quite  a  record  for  the  young  man.  His  next  will 
be  "Heaven  on  Earth."  As  Lew  is  an  enthusi- 
astic astronomer  and  is  always  sky-gazing, 
maybe  he  had  something  to  do  with  the  title. 

Doris  Maxwell,  Weiser,  Idaho. — But  not 
Weiser  than  this  old  chap.  That  big  hand- 
some idol  of  yours,  Richard  Arlen,  hails  from 
Charlottesville,  Va.  He  was  born  there  on 
September  1,  1899.  And  your  other  big  husky 
favorite,  Gary  Cooper,  first  saw  light  on  May 
7,  1901,  in  Helena,  Mont.  Dick's  latest  picture 
is  "The  Lawyer's  Secret"  and  Gary's  latest 
is  "I  Take  This  Woman." 

Roslyn  Bernsteen,  St.  Paul,  Minn. — 
Connie  Bennett  was  born  in  New  York  City, 
25  years  ago,  is  5  feet,  4,  and  weighs  102  pounds. 
She  entered  silent  pictures  early  in  1924,  but 
deserted  them  when  she  married  millionaire 
Phil  Plant  in  1925.  With  the  coming  of  the 
talkies  and  her  divorce  from  Phil  in  1929, 
Connie  trekked  back  to  Hollywood  and  since 
then  has  turned  out  many  grand  pictures. 

BiLLiE  Lou  Royce,  Kearney,  Neb. — I 
guess  you'll  just  have  to  pine  away,  for  Frank 
Albertson  is  married.  The  lucky  girl  is 
Virginia  Shelley.  Marian  Nixon  is  Mrs. 
Edward  Hillman  in  private  life.  Irene  Dunne 
is  just  26  years  old  and  is  married  to  Dr. 
F.  D.  Griffin. 

Lillian  Jennings,  Toronto,  Can. — Fredric 
March  and  his  wife,  Florence  Eldridge,  ap- 
peared in  two  pictures  together,  "The  Studio 
Murder  Mystery,"  and  "The  Marriage  Holi- 
day." Fred  hails  from  Racine,  Wis.,  and 
Florence  is  a  Brooklynite.  They  both  had 
stage  experience  and  started  in  pictures  late 
in  1928.  They  were  married  in  Mexico  City 
in  May,  1927. 

Frances  Hillis,  Durham,  N.  C. — I've  got 
a  big  surprise  for  you,  Frances.  That  peppy 
little  Alice  White  hasn't  forsaken  Hollywood. 
She  recently  signed  a  contract  with  Tiffany 
and  is  going  to  make  a  picture  titled  "The 
Monster  Kills."  Alice  comes  from  Paterson, 
N.  J.,  where  she  was  born  on  July  25,  1907. 
She  is  5  feet  tall,  tips  the  beam  at  105  and  has 
blonde  hair  and  dark  brown  eyes. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 

youth  !  la  true  cuiLtumri  ! 

trua/B  Ajojts  brcyuuq 


8- 


MY    MANNEQUIN    WILL    NEVER    HAVE    "AITTIJMN    SKIN"! 

Otilu  a  keallnu  jkln  can  Jtau  tioivna 


the  forehead  —  To  guard  against  lines 
and  wrinkles  here,  apply  Milkweed  Cream, 
stroking  with  fingertips,  outward  from  the 
center  of  brow. 

the  eyes  —  To  avoid  aging  crows'  feet, 
smooth  Ingram's  about  the  eyes,  stroke  with 
a  feather  touch  outward  over  brow  and  in- 
ward under  lower  lids. 

THE  MOUTH  —  Drooping  lines  are  easily  de- 
feated by  placing  thumbs  under  the  chin  and 
stroking  with  index  fingers  upward  and  out- 
ward toward  the  ears. 


the  throat — To  keep  your  throat  from 
fiabbiness,  cover  generously  with  Milkweed, 
and  from  the  hollow  at  the  base,  stroke  up- 
ward toward  the  chin. 

the  neck  and  chin  —  To  prevent  a  sag- 
ging chin,  stroke  with  fingertips  from  under 
the  chin  outward,  under  the  jawbone,  to- 
ward the  ears.  Then  pat  firmly  under  the 
chin  and  along  the  jaw  contours. 

the  shoulders  —  To  have  shoulders  that 
are  blemish-free  and  firmly  smooth,  massage 
with  palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion  with 
plenty  of  cream. 


I.XftRAMS 


tti>€ecU  Cream 


by  Frances  Ingram 

SHE  is  rather  like  autumn,  herself. 
Perhaps  42,  keen,  and  ever  so  color- 
ful! But  when  I  first  met  her,  a  summer 
in  the  Berkshires  had  done  quite  terrible 
things  to  her  skin.  It  had  coarsened— 
and  tiny  lines  were  etched  about  her 
eyes  and  across  her  forehead. 

"If  you  can't  help  me,"  she  said,  "I 
shall  have  to  spend  weeks  in  beauty 
salons  and,  horrible  thought,  put  off 
Paris  until  November!" 

So  I  told  her  how  to  cleanse  her  skin 
deeply  with  Milkweed  Cream,  each  day, 
until  not  a  bit  of  summer's  dust  re- 
mained in  the  pores.  And  I  explained 
how  each  night  she  must  film  her  skin 
afresh  with  my  Milkweed  Cream  and 
stroke  upward  at  the  six  stars,  to  soften 
it  and  eliminate  the  little  lines. 

She  went  to  Paris— in  September!  And 
came  back  with  five  jaunty  hats  she 
couldn't  possibly  have  worn  before.  And 
she  looked  young  in  each  of  them! 

Autumn  skin!  How  trying  it  is!  But 
Milkweed  Cream  used  regularly  both 
for  cleansing  and  toning  will  bring  back 
the  soft,  smooth,  unlined  skin  of  youth. 
I  want  you  to  try  it — and  see! 

And  won't  you  listen  in  on  my  radio 
programs, "Through  the  Looking-Glass 
with  Frances  Ingram,"  Tuesday  morn- 
ings at  10:15,  E.D.S.T.  over  WJZ  and 
associated  N.B.C.  stations? 


MY     INTRODUCTORY     TUBE     AND     MY 
BEAUTY    BOOKLET    WILL   DELIGHT   YOU 

FRANCES  INGRAM.  Dept.  A-9I 

108  Washington  Street,  New  York 

Q   Please  send   me  your   introductory  Milkweed 

Cream  treatment  and  your  booklet.  "Why  Only  a 

Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young."   I  enclose  4  cents 

in  stamps  to  cover  cost  of  mailing. 

"2   Please  send   me  your  booklet.  "Why   Only  a 

Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young,"  which  is  free. 

Namt 


StTUt- 

City— 


State- 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  84  I 


This  isn't  a  publicity  picture.     It's  Ann  Harding  taking  off  in  her  daily 

lesson  as  an  air  pilot.    Harry  Bannister  already  has  his  license.    A  few 

more  hours  in  the  air  and  Ann  can  roll  her  own 


•""THREE  years  ago,  Jetta  Goudal  won  her 
-*■  famous  suit  against  Cecil  B.  De  Mille  for 
breach  of  contract. 

Then  for  years,  she  suddenly  found  no  work. 
The  word  "blacklist"  was  freely  used  when 
they  talked  about  the  strange  case  of  Jetta. 

Now  Cecil  De  Mille,  no  longer  the  big  shot 
he  once  was,  has  left  Hollywood.  And  within 
a  few  weeks,  Jetta  got  her  first  job  in  pictures 
again — opposite  Will  Rogers. 

"Merely  coincidence,"  smiles  Jetta. 

Coincidence? — heh,  heh,  heh,  heh.  .  .  . 

YOU  all  know  her — the  platinum- 
haired  new  burst  of  sex  appeal 
who  frankly  capitalizes  on  her 
physical  charms.  The  other  day,  she 
was  being  fitted  for  a  new  gown. 
Over  the  partition  wall  came  her 
voice,  first  detailing  how  low  the 
breast-line  of  the  dress  was  to  come. 
She  was  certainly  not  favoring  con- 
cealment.   She  doesn't.    Then — 

"And  I  want  the  goods  cut  on  the 
bias  across  here,"  came  her  voice,  "so 
it  will  show  the  ripple  of  my  muscles 
when  I  walk." 

A  PRINTED  story  to  the  effect  that 
**■  Barbara  Stanwyck  had  left  pictures  for- 
ever because  her  husband's  contract  had  not 
been  renewed  and  that  she  would  go  wherever 

88 


Frank    Fay   went   brought  forth   a   vigorous 
denial  from  Barbara. 

She  says  she  has  been  overworked,  turning 
out  picture  after  picture  on  the  double  contract 
she  holds  with  Columbia  and  Warners  and  that 
her  doctor  told  her  that  she  could  not  last 
another  year  without  a  complete  collapse  if  she 
kept  it  up.  So  Barbara  decided  that  her  health 
was  valuable  and  that  the  studios  could  pay 
for  it  so  she  upped  her  salary  about  threefold. 

COLUMBIA  said  nothing  but  after  unsatis- 
factory tests  of  another  actress  for  Bar- 
bara's role  in  "Forbidden,"  the  picture  was 
abandoned.  The  producer  gave  out  the  story 
that  Barbara  would  quit  pictures  because  of 
Frank's  contract  not  being  renewed.  But  Bar- 
bara says  neither  she  nor  Frank  is  through. 

Now  that's  Barbara's  story.  Some  mean 
folks  say  that  the  whole  trouble  is  that  Frank, 
jealous  of  his  wife's  success — she  is  now  a  star 
and  he  used  to  be  the  big  shot — is  trying  to 
persuade  her  to  go  into  vaudeville  with  him. 

When  Frank  got  his  first  Hollywood  chance 
Barbara  gave  up  a  promising  stage  career  to  be 
with  him.  And  even  after  she  became  a  star 
she  said,  "What's  a  career,  your  name  in  elec- 
tric lights,  compared  to  love?" 

ROSCOE  ARBUCKLE  was  a  guest  of  honor 
at  George  Olsen's  night  club  not  long  ago 
and  Charles  Irwin  made  a  speech  concluding 


with,  "And  I  hope  to  see  his  smiling  face  on  the 
screen  very  soon."  The  crowd  cheered  and 
cheered  sincerely  for  ten  minutes  and  Roscoe, 
his  eyes  wet,  murmured,  "Gosh,  that's  sweet." 
Photoplay,  along  with  a  lot  of  other  people, 
have  felt  the  injustice  done  to  Arbuckle  keenly. 
We  want  him  back.  And  the  fact  remains  that 
a  man  who's  so  well  thought  of  in  his  own  com- 
munity must  be  all  right !  But  the  goody-goody 
reformers  still  insist  it  would  ruin  the  country. 

'""THE  initials  D.  R.  B.  on  a  silver  mug  re- 
*■  cently  brought  to  light  one  of  those  real  life 
sob  stories  that  rarely  reach  the  public.  It 
concerns  the  ex-wife  of  a  world  famous  star. 

A  New  York  decorator  was  loaned  the 
services  of  a  friend's  man  servant,  but  one 
afternoon  she  came  home  to  find  a  woman 
cleaning  her  apartment.  The  woman  explained 
that  she  was  the  wife  of  the  man  servant.  And 
in  a  few  minutes  she  asked  the  decorator  if  she 
would  care  to  buy  some  fine  silver.  The 
decorator  was  amazed  at  the  woman's  apparent 
culture  and  unmistakable  marks  of  former 
beauty.  The  next  day  she  brought  the  silver 
mug  and  it  was  then  the  story  came  out. 

The  woman  had  been  a  famous  beauty,  the 
wife  of  an  actor  you  know  well.  She  was  left  by 
her  husband  and  the  only  one  who  stood  by 
her  was  the  husband's  man  servant.  Down 
and  out,  beaten  by  hard  luck,  she  married  the 
man  servant  and  the  two  found  menial  em- 
ployment. A  fantastic  story,  yet  tragically 
true.  D.  R.  B.'s  former  husband  is  the  eldest 
of  three  famous  stage  and  screen  luminaries. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  90  ] 


Little  Jackie  Cooper  at  the  M-G-M 
studio  gates  where  many  are  called 
but  few  are  chosen.  Try  to  get  past 
those  gates  if  you  don't  work  there  or 
unless  you're  King  of  Siam 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


89 


There's  more  of  it 

in  your  movie  entertainment  now. 

making  every  program  better 

Progress  in  better  motion  picture 
programs  is  shown  by  more  short 
features  this  year.  The  better  thea- 
tres are  putting  the  punch  of  variety 
into  every  show,  spicing  them  more 
richly  than  ever  with  the  comedy, 
thrills,  beauty  and  novelty  of  Educational9 s  short  features. 

Educational  Pictures  are  the  product  of  the  ONE  BIG  com- 
pany specializing  in  short  features.  And  this  season  they 
have  been  planned  for  the  fastest  jS^£ 
and  most  diversified  entertainment 
ever  shown  on  the  screen. 


COMEDY 
BEAUTY 
THRILLS 

and 

COLOR 
TOO 


f^cUvcatloncd  6\ctun£D 


THE  SPICE  OFTHE  PROGRAM' 


EDUCATIONAL  FILM   EXCHANGES,  Inc. 

E.  W.  HAMMONS,  President,  Executive  Offices:  1501  Broadway,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


9° 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


Before  you  face  appraising 

eyes,  groom  your 


k  fingers 


wi 


ith  G\ 


azo 


■^~v 


The  young  and  the  smart  do  not  need  to 
be  told  how  the  little  differences  between 
nail  polishes  make  a  very  great  difference 
in  the  charm  of  the  hands. 

And  the  special  glow  that  Glazo  alone 
gives  has  been  its  fortune,  for  once  a  wo- 
man comes  to  know  the  charm  of  Glazo 
texture  and  color  it  is  almost  impossible  to 
please  her  with  any  other  polish. 

But  with  all  its  loveliness,  the  best  part 
of  the  story  is  that  Glazo  brushes  on  easily 
and  evenly,  never  "piles  up"  or  chips, 
and  never  appears  purplish  under  evening 
lights.  Whichever  of  its 
several  lovely  shades  you 
choose,  its  thin  glorious 
sheen  lasts  a  week  or  more. 


Famous  as  Glazo  Liquid  Polish  and 
Polish  Remover  are,  there  are  many  Glazo 
innovations  that  you  ought  to  know. 

For  the  other  Glazo  manicuring  aids  are 
as  smart  and  as  praiseworthy  as  Glazo 
polish  itself.  The  new  Glazo  Cuticle 
Remover  Creme  introduces  a  method  of 
cuticle  care  far  in  advance  of  all  others. 
This  soft,  white  cream  gently  removes  ex- 
cess cuticle,  and  leaves  the  edges  smooth 
and  even.  It  is  simpler  to  use  —  applied 
directly  from  the  convenient  tube  tip. 

Glazo  Nicotine  Remover  quickly  ban- 
ishes nicotine,  ink,  and  other  stains  from 
the  hands.  Glazo  Nail  White  and  Glazo 
Cuticle  Massage  Cream  play  important 
parts  in  making  your  manicure  perfect. 


(Above) — Perfumed  Glazo  Liquid  Nail  Polish 
comes  in  this  smart  new  package.  Natural, 
Flame,  Geranium  orCrimson — in  a  large  bottle, 
50c.    Perfumed    Glazo  Polish  Remover,   }5c. 

(Right)  —  Glazo  Cuticle  Remover  Creme  pre- 
sents a  new  and  superior  method  of  cuticle 
care.  Emollient  oils  soften,  while  excess  cuticle 
is  gently  removed.  In  a  convenient  tube,  50c. 

(Below)— The  famous  Glazo  twin  package  con- 
tains both  Glazo  Liquid  Polish  and  Polish  Re- 
mover—  conveniently  packaged  together,  50c. 
Your  choice  of  Natural,  Colorless,  or  Deep  Shell. 


GLAZO 

THE  GLAZO  COMPANY,  Inc.    Dept.  GQ-91 
191  Hudson  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 
I  enclose  ten  cents.  Please  send  me  samples  of  Glazo 
Liquid  Polish,  Polish  Remover,  and  the  new  Cuticle 
Remover  Creme.   (If  you  live   in   Canada,  address 
P.  O.  Box  2320,  Montreal.) 

Name 

Address 

City State 


Cal  York's  Monthly 

Broadcast  from 

Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE 


THE  old  gag  "studio  gateman  fails  to  recog- 
nize star"  because  of  some  trick  make-up 
can  be  reversed  to  studio  gateman  won't  let 
star  in,  whether  he  recognizes  star  or  not. 

The  iron  bound  pass  system,  that  studios 
have  installed,  reached  out  and  grabbed  Har- 
old Lloyd,  no  less.  Harold  had  been  invited 
to  the  United  Artists  lot  by  Douglas  Fair- 
banks, Sr.  But  up  pops  a  policeman  and  tells 
him  he  can't  stay  on  the  lot — positive  orders 
and  that  nobody  may  watch  Eddie  Cantor 
work. 

Harold  didn't  want  to  see  Eddie  and,  what's 
more,  Cantor  loves  an  audience  hanging  around 
when  he  does  his  funny  gags.  But  those  booted 
and  spurred  officers  must  have  something  to 
do,  so  they  do  the  booting. 

EDWARD  G.  ROBINSON  visited 
Reno  not  long  ago.  In  Reno,  at 
the  time,  "Smart  Money"  was  pack- 
ing them  into  the  picture  houses — 
and  in  it,  Eddie  plays  the  big-shot 
gambler. 

Consequently,  when  Eddie  walked 
into  one  or  two  of  Reno's  legalized 
gambling  houses,  dealers  and  crou- 
piers turned  pale  with  apprehension, 
according  to  a  friend  who  was  with 
Eddie.  And  more  than  one  two-bit 
gambler  insisted  upon  shaking  hands 
with  Eddie  for  luck! 

But  off  screen,  Eddie's  about  as 
gambly  a  gambler  as  Billy  Sunday. 

SYLVIA  SIDNEY  now  has  the  No.  1  dress- 
ing-room on  the  Paramount  lot  formerly 
used  by  Clara  Bow,  Adolphe  Menjou,  Pola 
Negri  and  Gloria  Swaason.  .  .  .  Tallulah 
Bankhead  went  on  a  milk  diet  and  has  put  on  ten 
pounds.  .  .  .  Charlie  Chaplin  is  reported 
negotiating  for  the  villa  of  Richard  Hudnut,  the 
perfumer,  in  Juan  les  Pins  on  the  French  Riviera. 
.  .  .  Because  the  British  censors  claimed  its 
theme  slurred  the  Austrian  monarchy,  "The 
Smiling  Lieutenant's"  London  premiere  was 
held  up.  .  .  .  Sally  O'Neil  is  coming  back. 
Just  signed  a  long  term  contract  with  Fox 
after  clicking  in  "The  Brat."  .  .  .  Bela  Lu- 
gosi  will  do  the  talkie  version  of  Lon  Chaney's 
"Hunchback  of  Notre  Dame."  .  .  . 

ANOTHER  example  of  the  strange  cost- 
sheet  hazards  that  pop  unexpectedly  into 
movie-making: 

At  Fox,  Alan  Dwan  was  shooting  a  scene 
showing  the  women's  recreation  room  in  a 
prison.  Among  the  props  were  several  caged 
canaries.  Somehow,  one  of  them  got  loose 
and  flew  to  the  rafters.  They  spent  some  time 
trying  to  catch  it,  but  gave  up  and  Dwan  began 
shooting. 

For  several  successive  takes,  the  bird,  in  the 
midst  of  the  footage,  swooped  down  through 
the  scene,  across  the  camera  range,  spoiling 
the  shot. 

That  cost  money.  Loss  was  estimated  at 
$5,000  before  the  bird  was  recaptured. 

MAUREEN  O'SULLIVAN  and  Billy  Bake- 
well  are  among  the  latest  Hollywood  ro- 
mances. 

"Is  it  serious?"  Billy  was  asked. 
"Gee,  I  wish  I  could  find  out  if  she's  se- 
rious," he  said  anxiously. 

BUTTON,  button,  who's  got  Ruth  Chatter- 
ton? 

Well,  it's  all  over  but  the  shouting.  Ruth 
goes  to  Warner  Brothers. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


THE  story  of  Carman  Barnes  is  one  of  those 
things  that  could  only  happen  in  Holly- 
wood. Maybe  you  remember  that  Carman  is 
the  youthful  authoress  who  wrote  the  sensa- 
tional novel  "School  Girl"  and  if  school  girls 
had  acted  like  that  in  Old  Cal's  day,  they 
would  have  been  spanked  and  sent  to  bed 
without  their  supper.  Instead  the  authoress 
was  signed  under  contract  to  Paramount  to 
write  her  own  stories  and  play  the  starring 
roles  in  them. 

The  executives  raved  about  her— never,  so 
the  press  was  told,  did  a  girl  have  so  much 
of  what  it  takes. 

The  publicity  department  was  instructed 
to  give  Carman  a  big  sendoff . 

She  was  photographed  from  every  angle — 
well,  almost.  She  was  interviewed  and  kow- 
towed to  and  flattered. 

VARIOUS  announcements  of  her  screen  roles 
were  announcements,  merely.  She  was  as- 
signed to  "Road  to  Reno,"  but  Peggy  Shannon 
was  substituted,  and  even  her  own  play,  "Deb- 
utante," was  put  aside  for  lack  of  a  story.  Now, 
it  seems,  Paramount  will  not  renew  her  con- 
tract. And  she's  never  appeared  in  a  single 
picture  nor  written  a  line  that  has  reached  the 
screen! 

Well,  she  drew  her  weekly  pay  check  and  the 
publicity  department  was  kept  bus)'  for  a  spell. 

MABEL  NORMAND'S  home  and 
furnishings  were  sold  at  auction 
the  other  day.  One  of  the  most  in- 
teresting items  included  her  piano 
and  an  assortment  of  sheet  music — 
each  piece  autographed  by  Mabel. 
The  collection  brought  $420. 

TRUE  story.  A  certain  producer  saw  a 
stranger  wandering  around  his  lot  and  asked 
his  press  agent  who  the  man  was.  The  press 
agent  replied  that  it  was  So  and  So,  a  promi- 
nent writer  on  the  company  payroll.  And  the 
exec  said: 

"Well,  tell  him  to  come  to  my  office.  And 
tell  him  to  bring  his  hat  and  coat." 

JOAN  CRAWFORD'S  idol  since  she  was  a 
J  girl  in  the  chorus  has  been  Pauline  Frederick. 
Joan  had  to  give  up  her  trip  to  Europe  to  re- 
make "This  Modern  Age,"  originally  titled 
"Girls  Together,"  but  there  was  one  compensa- 
tion. Joan  didn't  exactly  crave  Marjorie  Ram- 
beau,  who  played  her  mother  in  the  original 
version.  Marjorie  was  wanted  for  another  pic- 
ture, so  they  looked  around  for  another  mother 
for  Joan.  Pauline  was  suggested.  Joan  was  so 
excited  that  she  even  came  down  to  the  studio 
when  it  wasn't  necessary,  just  to  watch  her 
idol  take  her  tests. 

And  Joan  won't  give  a  darn  if  Pauline  steals 
every  shot  in  the  picture. 

JACKIE  COOPER  has  attained  the 
topmost  success  peak! — they've 
named  a  salad  after  him  at  the 
M-G-M  studio  restaurant. 

Avocado     pear,    orange,    whipped 
cream. 

A  LTHOUGH  we  haven't  the  right  to  say 
+  *■"!  told  you  so"  we  knew  all  along  that 
there'd  be  a  little  plain  and  fancy  devil  to  pay 
when  Sylvia's  (don't  tell  me  you  don't  know 
Sylvia  by  now)  yarn  "Undressing  Hollywood" 
was  published.  Right  off,  Hedda  Hopper  got 
sore  because  the  masseuse  said  Ina  Claire  had 
once  been  ten  pounds  overweight.  Jimmy 
Whittaker,  who  "ghosted"  the  series  for  Syl- 
via, is  Ina  Claire's  ex-husband.  Hedda  Hopper 
thinks  he  just  ain't  no  gentleman. 

And  it's  so  completely  got  Hedda's  sophisti- 
cated goat  that  she's  on  the  verge  of  writing  a 
piece  herself. 

Now  maybe  you  don't  care  whether  Ina  was 
ever  ten  pounds  overweight  or  not  but  in  case 
you're  interested  you  might  dig  up  an  old  print 
of  her  first  film  "The  Awful  Truth"  and  see  the 
awful  truth  for  yourself. 


Trust  no 
substitute 

because  "it  looks  like  Kotex" 


** 


Kotex  protects  safely  ...  it  is 
adjustable,  and  shaped  to  fit. 

THE  great  value  of  Kotex. . .  to  women 
with  high  standards ...  is  its  abso- 
lute cleanliness.  It's  so  much  more  than 
surface-clean.  Kotex  is  made  clean  .  .  . 
by  modern,  sanitary  methods,  which 
eliminate  any  possibility  of  careless  han- 
dling. Kotex  is  really,  hygienically  clean. 
Unfortunately,  this  care  in  making  can- 
not be  shown  in  any  outward  way.  So 
thoughtless  shoppers  may  be  deceived, 
when  offered  a  substitute  that  looks  like 
Kotex.  This  resemblance  proves  nothing. 
It's  easy  to  make  a  pad  that  looks  like 
Kotex. 

When  offered  a  substitute,  demand 
more  than  surface  likeness  to  Kotex.  Ask 
how  this  substitute  was  made  . . .  where 
...  by  whom.  Ask  who  guarantees  its 
hygienic  safety  ...  its  health  protection. 

Hospitals  use  Kotex 
Why  should  you  take  chances?  You 
might  save  a  few  pennies  .  .  .  but  the  risk 
is  not  worth  while.  You  know  Kotex  is 
safe.  Hospitals  use  it — they  bought  over 
10,000,000  pads  last  year — what  stronger 
proof  of  superiority  could  you  have? 

Kotex  protects  comfort,  as  well  as 
your  health.  It  is  made  of  laminated 
layers  of  Cellucotton  (not  cotton)   ab- 


sorbent wadding,  a  wonderful  substance 
that  absorbs  moisture  laterally  away 
from  the  surface. 

Kotex  is  adjustable.  Shaped  to  fit. 
Treated  to  deodorize.  It  is  so  easily  dis- 
posed of. 

Buy  it  at  any  drug,  dry  goods  or  de- 
partment store.  Sold  singly  in  vending 
cabinets  by  West  Disinfecting  Co. 

piiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuuiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiimiiiig 

KOTEX  IS  SAFE  . . . 

|    1     Can  be  worn  on  either  side  with  equal    | 
Ef  comfort. 

1    2    The  Kotex  absorbent  is  the  identical 

material  used  by  surgeons  in  85%  of  the    | 
country's  leading  hospitals. 

1  3  Kotex  is  soft  .  .  .  Not  merely  an  ap-  | 
parent  softness,  that  soon  packs  into  chaf-  § 
ing  hardness.  But  a  delicate,  lasting  softness-    | 

1  4  The  Kotex  Filler  is  far  lighter  and  cooler  | 
than  cotton,  yet  absorbs  5  times  as  much. 

i    5     Disposable,  instantly,    completely. 
liumnuuiiiiMiiimiiilllll iiiiiiiiiniinniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiijuiuiuiiiimiiiimii 

C77Ae.  new  kjft&x.  J&e£t~ 

brings  new  ideals  of  sanitary  com/ort!  Woven 
to  fit  by  an  entirely  new  patented  process. 
Firm  yel  light;    will  not   curl;    per/ect-/ilting. 

KOTG  X 

Sanitary  Napkins 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


WATCHING  the  announcement  of  coming 
attractions  at  the  Forum  Theater  in  Los 
Angeles  the  other  day,  we  saw  this: 

"Loretta  Young  and  Grant  Withers 

in 

Too  Young  to  Marry." 

The  audience  giggled.  Seldom  are  titles  so 
apropos.  Oh  yes,  they  made  this  one  before 
their  divorce  announcement. 


Color  Magic  for 

Your  Lips! 

How  innocent  Tangee  looks  in  its  modest 
gun-metal  case!  But  touch  it  to  your  lips, 
you  Blonde  one  of  great  fame  .  .  .  you 
Beauty  of  the  titian  hair  .  .  .  you  sparkling- 
eyed  Brunette! 

For  this  is  the  magic  of  Tangee  ...  it 
changes  when  applied  to  your  lips  and 
blends  perfectly  with  your  own  natural  col- 
oring,   no    matter   what    your    complexion. 

Tangee  never  gives  an  artificial,  greasy, 
make-up  look.  It  never  rubs  off.  And 
Tangee  has  a  solidified  cream  base,  one  that 
not  only  beautifies  but  actually  soothes, 
softens  and  protects. 

Tancee,  the  world's  most  famous  Lipstick, 
$1.     Natural!      Permanent!      Non-Greasy! 

NEW!  Tangee  THEATRICAL,  a  special 
dark  shade  of  TANGEE  and  ROUGE  COM- 
PACT Lipstick  for  professional  and  eve- 
ning use. 

Si 


executives  wired   the   scout  asking 
him  if  he'd  suddenly  lost  his  mind. 

And  then  it  all  came  to  light.  The 
girl  was  an  understudy.  He'd  signed 
the  wrong  actress. 


SEND  2(#  FOR  TANGEE  BEAUTY  SET 

Containing    miniature    Lipstick,   two   Rouges, 
Powder,  two  Creams  and  "The  Art  of  Make-up." 
The  George  W.  Luft  Co.,  Dept.  Pll 
417  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 


Name 

!  Address- 


THERE'S  a  certain  producer  in 
Hollywood  who  is  known  chiefly 
for  the  right  words  he  does  not  use. 
For  instance,  he  bragged  one  day  that 
the  Indians  in  a  certain  picture  he 
made  were  the  real  thing— "right  off 
the  reservoir,"  he  insisted. 

WHEN  Mona  Maris  and  Alfred  Santell 
stopped  going  together,  we  understand  a 
group  of  Hollywood's  sports  wagered  her  next 
boy  friend  would  be  a  director,  because 
directors  are  supposed  to  help  yearning  young 
women  to  greater  fame. 

He  was.  Clarence  Brown!  We  also  under- 
stand that  Mona  really  expected  parts  at  Metro 
for  some  time  but,  somehow,  they  never 
materialized. 

She  left  Fox,  you  know,  because  she  refused 
to  play  in  foreign  versions.  Now,  she  has 
returned  to  Fox — in  foreign  versions. 

A  SCOUT  for  one  of  the  big  film 
companies  signed  a  Broadway 
actress.  When  she  arrived  in  Holly- 
wood her  tests  were  so  bad  that  the 


•"TERRY  CARROLL— Nancy's  sister— has  a 
*•  job.  She's  the  stand-in  girl  for  Tallulah 
Bankhead  and  when  she's  all  dressed  like  the 
star,  they're  as  alike  as  two  supervisors.  In 
fact,  she  looks  much  more  like  Tallulah  than 
she  looks  like  Nancy.  And  speaking  of  Terry, 
she  was  one  of  the  guests  at  a  cocktail — er — a. 
tea  party  given  by  Jack  Kirkland — Nancy's 
ex-spouse. 

SIGNS  on  theater  marquees: 
THREE  GIRLS  LOST  with  Lew 
Cody. 

TWIN  BILL:    Girls  Demand  Ex- 
citement Behind  Office  Doors. 

WELL,  well,  well — so  it  wasn't  overwork 
which  took  Frances  Dee  to  Catalina  for  a 
two -weeks,  to -bed -at -nine -every -night  rest 
cure.  It  was  over-play.  And  thereby  hangs  a 
cute  little  story. 

Frances  has  been  going  steadily  with  Bill 
Mankiewicz,  writer,  you  know.  And  then  Bill 
went  to  Europe  for  a  vacation.  All  the  Holly- 
wood boys  who  had  been  standing  on  the  side- 
lines envying  Bill  got  busy  and  Frances  de- 
cided to  learn  what  popularity  really  meant. 
She  did.  A  different  man  every  night.  Russell 
Gleason  is  the  only  one  we  know  who  got  two 
dates.  Several  weeks  of  being  the  belle  of  the 
town — and  then  Catalina,  alone,  with  mother. 


Ruth  Chatterton  and  Frances.  Starr  holding  a  gabfest  over  the  old  days 
when  Ruth  was  Henry  Miller's  big  box-office  bet  and  Frances  was 
Belasco's.  The  old  masters  have  passed  on  but  the  lessons  they  taught 
the  girls  live  on  in  motion  pictures,  which  both  old  stage  producers  de- 
tested. PHOTOPLAY'S  photographer  caught  them  on  a  Paramount  set 
where  Ruth  is  making  "The  Magnificent  Lie." 

"Ruth,"  Frances  was  saying,  "how  does  it  feel  to  have  those  movie  pro- 
ducers scrapping  over  you  and  handing  you  also  those  spondulix?" 

"Frances,  my  dear,"  said  Miss  Chatterton.    "It  isn't  hard  to  take." 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


THE  players'  fan  mail  is  usually  pretty 
monotonous.  Once  in  a  while,  a  letter  is 
interesting.  Frequently  one's  amusing.  But 
to  David  Manners,  handsome  young  juvenile, 
came  one  the  other  day  that  was  downright 
amazing! — 

It  was  from  a  woman  in  Ohio.  It  told  Dave 
how  the  writer  enjoyed  seeing  him  in  pictures. 
And  then,  it  slapped  Dave  in  the  eye  with  this 
concluding  request: 

"...  and  please  send  me  a  photograph  of 
yourself  IN  THE  NUDE." 

GENE  MARKEY,  debonair  writer 
and  ex-flame  of  Ina  Claire,  is 
Hollywood's  favorite  beau.  All  in 
one  day  he  was  rumored  secretly 
married  to  Gloria  Swanson,  and  pay- 
ing court  to  Ina  again.  But  that  night 
he  dined  with  Lois  Moran  and  the 
next  day  took  Ruth  Weston  to  lunch. 

SAYS  Estelle  Taylor:  "Every  time  I'm  in  the 
theater  and  hear  a  bad  word  spoken  by  one 
of  the  players,  I  give  a  frightened,  guilty  start. 
I've  become  'Hays-conscious.'  " 

BENNY  RUBIN  and  Bob  Mont- 
gomery talking  between  scenes: 

"How  come  you  didn't  march  in 
that  scene,  when  you  were  supposed 
to?"  demanded  Bob. 

"Well,  you  heard  the  band  playing, 
no?"  asked  Rubin. 

"Sure,  but  what  of  it?" 

"Well,  wasn't  it  playing  'Onward, 
Christian  soldiers'?  Should  I  walk? 
I'm  a  Jewish  boy." 

IT  remained  for  the  Marx  Brothers  to  be 
nuttiest  about  Clara  Bow's  visit  to  Rex  Bell's 
ranch.    Groucho  started  with: 

"Hayakawa  keep  her  down  on  the  farm, 
after  she's  seen  Hollywood?" 

So  Harpo  answered: 

"Maybe  it'll  do  her  good  to  be  away.  Was 
Anna  May  Wong  when  she  left  Hollywood  for 
a  while?'' 

"Sessue!"  snorted  Groucho.  And  that's 
enough  of  this  sort  of  thing. 

THERE  was  much  misery  and  heartache  in 
the  once  gay  home  of  the  Robert  Mont- 
gomerys.  Their  baby  daughter  contracted 
spinal  meningitis  recently  and  it  was  thought 
that  she  was  not  going  to  pull  through.  For- 
tunately Bob  wasn't  working  in  a  picture  so  he 
could  be  with  the  baby  every  minute  of  the 
day. 

The  child  is  on  the  mend  now  and  it  is 
hoped  there'll  be  no  serious  aftermath. 

WRITER  Joe  Swerling  always 
arrives  late  at  the  studio.  But 
he  is  such  a  nice  guy  that  nobody 
minds — much,  even  if  sometimes  his 
presence  is  badly  needed.  Recently 
he  became  a  father  and  Harry  Cohn 
sent  him  the  following  wire:  "Hear 
your  baby  arrived  at  8 :30  A.  M.  Wish 
you  would  do  the  same." 

T^HEY  say  Mervyn  LeRoy,  First  National's 
*■  young  ace  director,  tells  every  good-looking 
girl  he  meets  that  he  expects  to  have  a  part  in 
his  next  picture  for  her. 

We  ran  into  a  very  beautiful  brunette  yester- 
day and  when  we  inquired  about  her  work,  she 
said: 

"I  am  between  two  of  Mervyn  LeRoy's 
promises." 

XTORMAN  FOSTER,  husband  of  Claudette 
^^  Colbert  (and  Walter  Winchell  says  it  will 
be  ex-husband  pretty  soon)  gave  out  an  inter- 
view in  which  he  was  quoted  as  saying  that  he 
was  in  pictures  because  he  was  the  type  and 
that  he  didn't  have  to  act.  Now  he's  out  at 
the  studio. 

The  moral  is  that  actors  should  save  the 
dialogue  for  the  microphone. 


THE     EDITOR    OF 


VOGU 


93 

E    IS    ON    THE    AIR 


I 


Every  Thursday  morning  at  11:30  Eastern  Daylight  Time,  over  WJZ  and  asso- 
ciated N.B.  C.  stations,  Mrs.  EdnaWoolman  Chase,  the  talented  Editor-in-Chitf 
of  Vogue,  will  give  her  advice  on  what  to  wear  and  how  to  wear  it.  Tunc  in,  and 
as  you  think  of  your  clothes,  don't  forget  that  Instant  Odorono  is  the  best 
A         means  of  protecting  your  dresses — as  well  as  your  charm — from  perspiration. 


PERSPIRATION  CONTROL 
S  INSTANT  AND  COMPLETE  WITH 
THIS  MIRACULOUS  NEW 


Instant  Odorono 


V  With  the  New  Instant  Appli- 
cator you  may  apply  this  amazing 
new  Instant  Odorono  in  a  moment. 
Just  pat  it  on  quickly— any  time, 
day  or  night.  No  need  to  use  cotton! 
Nothing  messy  or  greasy!  Entirely 
sanitary!  Underarm  perspiration  is 
stopped  .  .  .  perspiration  odor  is 
prevented  — instantly! 


© 


With  Its  Neio  Quick-Drying 
Formula  Instant  Odorono  dries  al- 
most immediately. .Before  you  have 
finished  with  cream,  powder  and 
lipstick  — it's  dry!  And  you  are 
ready  for  your  frock. 


© 


It  Guards  Your  Frocks  .  .  . 
It  Guards  Your  Charm!  Instant 
Odorono  saves  you  money  —  pre- 
venting the  costly  damage  or  ruin 
of  your  dresses  by  the  acids  of  per- 
spiration. It  eliminates  underarm 
odor  ...  so  offensive  to  others. 
With  all  the  famous  Odorono  de- 
pendability, Instant  Odorono  keeps 
the  underarms  completely  dry  and 
odorless  from  1  to  3  full  days. 


FAMILIAR    TRAGEDIES    No.    2 


AT    THE   RACES    HE    SPENT   . 


$30 


SHE    RUINED    HER    FROCK 


$89 


At  the  races  she  was  charming — in  a  new 
French  frock.  But  the  day  grew  warm,  and 
soon  she  began  to  perspire,  under  the  arms. 
She  knew  the  French  frock  was  ruined,  for 
those  perspiration  stains  were  sure  to  fade 
the  color.  She  thought,  too,  of  underarm 
odor.  So  gauche!  Why  had  she  trusted  an  inef- 
fective preparation — when  Ins.tant  Odorono, 
so  simply  and  surely,  would  have  saved  her 
frock  and  her  charm. 

THE  ODORONO  COMPANY,  INC.,  NEW   YORK 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


To  relieve 

HAY  FEVER 
MISERY 

Use 

Kleenex 

in  place  of  hand- 
kerchiefs 


So  inexpensive  you  use  once 
and  destroy. . .  no  laundering 

HAY  FEVER  victims  .  .  .  join  the 
thousands  of  fellow  sufferers  who 
have  rejoiced  in  the  discovery  of  Kleenex! 

You  know  how  marvelously  soft 
Kleenex  is — those  absorbent  tissues  so 
widely  used  for  removing  face  creams. 

Used  in  place  of  handkerchiefs,  they 
relieve  much  of  the  wretchedness  during 
hay  fever  season  when  soft,  dry  handker- 
chiefs are  so  necessary. 

You  know  only  too  well,  how  miser- 
able a  handkerchief  becomes.  Embarrass- 
ing to  carry,  disgusting  to  look  at,  irri- 
tating to  use,  unpleasant  to  wash. 

Inexpensive— use  and  destroy 

Kleenex  costs  so  little  that  you  may 
destroy  each  tissue  immediately  after 
use.  And  how  grateful  is  its  downy  soft- 
ness to  inflamed  and  sensitive  skin! 
Kleenex  absorbs  nearly  twice  as  fast  as 
the  softest  of  old  linen  handkerchiefs. 

You'll  find  Kleenex  at  your  nearest 
drug,  dry  goods  or  department  store. 

Use  Kleenex  for  dusting  and  polishing, 
in  place  of  unsanitary  cloths.  Buy  an 
extra  package  for  the  automobile.  It's 
handy  in  a  score  of  ways  when  motoring. 

%£  |     C*  C  M  CV        Dlmpoaable 

rVLLLIlLA   TISSUES 


Kleenex   Company, 
Lake  Michigan  Bldg., 
Chicago,  Illinois. 

Please  send  free  trial 
supply  of  Kleenex. 

Name _ - — 


Street. 
City- 


State.. 


The  Way  I  See  It 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  65  ] 


depression.  People  with  far  more  reputation 
and  experience  than  I  were  without  engage- 
ments, without  prospects  of  ever  getting  any. 
New  York,  it  seemed  to  me,  was  the  only 
hope.  Out  of  a  kind  of  professional  and 
financial  bankruptcy,  I  laid  out  all  but  my 
last  few  pounds  in  a  second-class  passage  to 
America  and  arrived  in  New  York,  armed  with 
a  fat  sheaf  of  letters  of  introduction  to  film 
and  theatrical  people. 

"DUT  the  depression  I  found  in  New  York 
••-'made  London  seem  comparatively  prosper- 
ous. All  the  picture  studios  were  closed ;  all  the 
theatrical  managers  were  gloomily  shaking 
their  heads.  A  boarding  house  in  Brooklyn 
succeeded  my  first  quarters  in  a  Times  Square 
hotel,  and,  even  with  two  weeks  of  a  walk-on 
part  at  $50  a  week,  how  to  pay  the  landlady 
was  becoming  a  pressing  problem.  I  was  be- 
ginning to  see  that  my  schedule  of  simple 
success  might  have  large  gaps  in  it. 

From  sheer  economic  necessity,  I  took  parts 
in  road  companies,  with  "The  Green  Goddess" 
and  "East  is  West."  Such  roles  were  useless 
in  building  a  career  in  America,  but  I  had  no 
choice. 

I  think  it  was  at  about  this  time  that  I 
began  to  feel  the  need  of  that  anchor  to  wind- 
ward, that  private  guarantee  against  having 
to  go  through  useless  motions  in  order  to  stay 
alive,  which  would  have  sounded  merely 
ridiculous  to  me  two  years  before. 

At  any  rate,  when  "East  is  West"  returned 
to  New  York,  I  had  determined  to  get  myself 
out  of  this  fly-by-night  profession,  much  as  I 
liked  the  active  aspects  of  it,  and  spend  the 
rest  of  my  life  playing  safe,  earning  some- 
thing and  saving  something. 

I  had  not  been  a  failure.  My  kind  of  success 
had  been  worse  than  failure.  A  flash  of  luck 
here,  a  short,  quick  recognition  there,  a  touch 
of  success  in  something  else,  with  long  in- 
tervals of  perplexity  between.  And  just  when 
the  last  ray  of  hope  had  gone  out,  something 
else  would  turn  up  to  keep  me  alive  and 
tantalized  for  a  little  while  longer. 

But  I  was  through  with  it  now,  and  went 
earnestly  about  getting  a  steady,  reliable  job. 
I  had  been  a  steamship  clerk  in  London;  and 
clerks  of  some  sort  must  be  needed  in  New 
York.  Perhaps  they  were;  but  no  one  ever 
admitted  it  in  my  hearing.  I  was  only  too 
willing  to  devote  myself  to  earning  my  board 
and  lodging  with  a  few  dollars  left  over,  week 
in  and  week  out;  the  difficulty  was  that  the 
opportunity  to  do  so  did  not  offer,  pursue  it 
as  earnestly  as  I  might. 

And,  at  that  point,  my  erratic  fate  threw 
me  back  into  the  theater  with  a  handsome  offer 
from  Mr.  Henry  Miller  to  play  opposite  Miss 
Ruth  Chatterton  in  the  New  York  production 
of  "La  Tendresse. " 

WHAT  moved  Mr.  Miller  to  this  rash  step 
I  never  knew.  At  the  time,  it  appealed  to 
my  new  prudence  as  an  opportunity  to  build 
up  a  small  nest-egg  for  future  emergencies,  and 
I  accepted  it.  But  when  I  found  myself  back 
on  the  stage,  working  again  at  the  only  pro- 
fession I  knew,  well  treated,  even  actively 
praised  by  the  newspapers,  I  found  out  that  I 
liked  it  too  well  to  give  it  up.  This  was  my 
work,  if  I  could  only  maintain  my  resolution 
to  save  money,  and  so  prevent  getting  soaked 
to  the  skin  in  the  rainy  days  of  which  the 
actor's  life  is  full. 

The  fact  that,  although  an  Englishman  born, 
f  could  pass  for  an  Italian,  again  took  a  hand 
in  my  life.  Mr.  Henry  King,  then  planning 
to  take  Miss  Lillian  Gish  to  Italy  to  make 
"The  White  Sister"  appeared  during  the  fourth 
week  of  "La  Tendresse"  and  made  strenuous 
efforts  to  secure  me  for  her  leading  man.    It 


was  true  that  I  had  worked  a  little  in  English 
pictures  and  that  he  offered  me  a  salary  well 
above  what  Mr.  Miller  could  pay  for  my  serv- 
ices; but  I  had  no  reason  to  suppose  that  I 
would  do  well  enough  in  pictures  to  make  the 
experiment  worth  while. 

Mr.  King  was  persuasive;  Mr.  Miller  was 
generous  about  releasing  me;  but  in  the  end 
it  was  the  hope  of  laying  by  enough  money 
for  a  breathing  spell  in  which  to  take  stock  of 
myself  which  brought  about  my  consent. 

For  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  was  actively 
concerned  about  where  I  wanted  to  go  and 
how  I  wanted  to  get  there. 

I  sometimes  wonder  why  my  real  success 
began  as  soon  as  I  got  into  this  frame  of  mind. 
If  I  were  superstitious,  I  should  say  that  fate 
was  rewarding  me  for  an  effort  to  make  sense 
out  of  myself. 

AT  any  rate,  "The  White  Sister"  and 
■*»"RomoIa"  which  succeeded  it  on  the  same 
trip  with  Mr.  King  and  Miss  Gish,  did  so  well 
by  me  that,  while  I  was  still  in  Italy,  there 
came  an  offer  from  Mr.  Samuel  Goldwyn  for 
my  services  in  Hollywood.  There  could  be  no 
breathing-spell,  but  the  consciousness  of  hav- 
ing put  by  a  considerable  sum  of  money,  plus 
a  certain  pride  in  my  ability  to  do  so,  had  made 
the  breathing  spell  unnecessary.  My  fan  mail 
from  "The  White  Sister"  convinced  me  that 
there  was  something  in  Hollywood  for  me; 
and  I  accepted  Mr.  Goldwyn's  offer,  beginning 
an  association  which  has  continued  seven 
years. 

The  nature  of  that  association  has  been 
bound  up  with  my  new  attitude.  The  first 
picture  in  which  he  used  me  brought  a 
steadily  increasing  reputation,  so  that,  when 
the  time  came  for  him  to  take  up  my  option, 
I  found  myself  with  several  offers  from  other 
studios.  I  think  Mr.  Goldwyn  offered  me 
less  money  than  any  of  the  others;  I  know 
that  several  offers  were  considerably  larger 
than  his.    But  I  stayed  with  Mr.  Goldwyn. 

Three  years  before,  I  should  have  been 
possessed  of  only  a  few  hundred  dollars,  no 
matter  what  I  had  been  earning,  and  would 
have  been  quite  capable  of  accepting  the  high- 
est offer  merely  because  it  was  the  highest. 
In  my  old  way  of  thinking,  that  would  have 
been  the  logical  thing  to  do. 

But,  now,  I  still  had  a  large  portion  of  my 
recent  earnings  intact.  I  had  been  realizing, 
through  my  new  feeling  for  my  work,  that  Mr. 
Goldwyn's  way  of  handling  me  was  the  way 
I  wanted  to  be  handled.  Now,  with  money 
in  the  bank,  I  could  afford  to  disregard  the 
temporary  advantage  of  a  few  hundred  dollars 
more  per  week  and  assume  a  bit  of  financial 
disadvantage  for  the  sake  of  long-run  values. 

In  other  words,  I  was  now  in  a  position  where 
I  could  forget  about  the  necessity  of  keeping 
my  job,  and  could  devote  myself  to  the  con- 
sideration of  how  to  do  my  job  properly.  I 
could  afford  to  take  the  job  which  offered  the 
most  opportunity  for  me,  and  such  an  attitude 
toward  matters  would  have  been  impossible 
if  those  lean  months  in  New  York  and  sad 
experience  in  the  frantic,  hand-to-mouth  life 
of  the  theater  had  not  bullied  me  into  seeing 
things  in  a  new  light. 

I  SOON  found  that  being  able  to  surrender 
the  added  revenue  which  might  have  come 
from  a  rapid  succession  of  "factory"  pictures 
and  over-night  exploitation  was  extremely 
fortunate.  Mr.  Goldwyn's  supervision  of  my 
work  was  amazingly  shrewd  and  careful.  He 
built  up  what  is  known  in  theatrical  terms  as 
my  "draw"  slowly,  cautiously  and  perma- 
nently. 

And  I  was  beginning  to  be  financially  in- 
dependent so  that,  when  the  "talkies"  came 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


9S 


along  to  shake  the  picture  world  upside  down, 
I  would  have  been  in  no  serious  danger  if 
my  screen  career  had  ended  then  and  there. 

As  it  happened,  "Bulldog  Drummond,"  my 
first  talking  picture,  was  an  outstanding  suc- 
cess, and  those  which  have  followed  it,  "Con- 
demned," "Raffles,"  "The  Devil  to  Pay"  and 
the  new  "The  Unholy  Garden,"  have  been 
equally  gratifying. 

But  I  know  there  must  be  an  end  to  all 
things.  One  of  these  days,  or  one  of  these 
months,  or  one  of  these  years,  Mr.  Goldwyn 
will  find  that  this  contract  of  ours,  which  has 
kept  on  renewing  itself  for  seven  years, 
promises  him  only  financial  loss.  And  at  that 
time  I  fancy  we  will  solve  the  problem  by 
tearing  up  the  contract. 

But,  at  that  juncture,  I  shall  again  be  able 
to  afford  plans,  a  purpose,  a  future.  No  man 
under  forty  likes  to  think  of  the  productive 
part  of  his  life  as  finished.  I  shall  not  mind 
the  process  of  being  forgotten  by  the  screen 
public,  for  that  will  be  merely  a  preliminary 
step  for  something  else. 

After  living  for  a  few  years  in  the  California 
that  I  love,  I  may  go  back  to  the  legitimate 
theater  with  a  vigorous  and  healthful  in- 
dependence of  mind  as  well  as  of  means. 

I  SHALL  not  be  forced  to  take  any  part  which 
offers  me  a  temporary  livelihood.  I  can 
choose  what  I  am  to  do  and  do  it  for  my  own 
satisfaction  alone,  not  in  a  desperate  struggle 
to  stay  afloat. 

Acting  is  my  job,  as  I  found  out  when  I  was 
forced  back  into  it.  I  shall  continue  to  work 
at  my  job  as  long  as  I  can,  for  the  job's  sake 
and  not  for  the  sake  of  three  meals  a  day. 
In  that  way,  I  have  already  had  far  more  joy 
in  my  work  than  I  ever  had  in  the  old  days 
of  hand-to-mouth. 

The  need  of  a  job  or  the  fear  of  losing  one 
is  a  torturing  thing. 

Putting  money  in  the  bank  is  the  only  way 
of  making  money  unimportant.  When  a  crisis 
arrives,  it  means  the  opportunity  for  calm, 
orderly  thinking  and  studied  planning.  It 
dissipates  the  need  for  snap  decisions  on  the 
basis  of  an  expediency  which  may  not  be 
really  expedient.  It  gives  one's  future  pur- 
pose and  direction. 

There  can  be  direction  and  purpose  without 
great  savings  of  money,  I  suppose,  but  I  am 
afraid  that  most  of  us  will  find  it  difficult. 

Or,  at  least,  that  is  what  one  picture-actor 
discovered  in  the  process  of  learning  how  to 
give  himself  an  opportunity  to  do  his  job 
properly. 


Love  on  the  Rocks 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  51  ] 

All  manner  of  pets  roamed  the  hacienda. 
Dogs  were  always  underfoot.  Canaries  twit- 
tered all  over  the  house,  and  eagles,  Gary's 
gifts  to  Lupe,  screamed  outside.  The  house 
was  filled  with  guests  at  all  hours,  all  days. 
One  day  Lupe  picked  up  two  girl  tap-dancers 
and  a  Mexican  guitar  player  and  announced 
they  were  under  personal  contract  to  her,  just 
for  fun.  Dressmakers,  sales-people,  their  arms 
filled  with  new  clothes,  poured  in  and  out  in  a 
steady  stream. 

"Isn't  he  beee-ootiful?  Isn't  he  grrrand?" 
she  would  scream  at  her  guests,  and  leap  into 
Cooper's  lap.  The  next  minute  she  would  say 
"Oh,  how  I  hate  that  man!"  and  go  for  him 
with  the  nearest  thing  at  hand. 

And  Gary?  He  took  it  patiently,  with  much 
amusement — as  gentle  as  a  big  Newfoundland 
dog.  Oh,  never  a  dull  moment  in  the  Velez 
menage — an  all-day,  all-night  circus.  And  real 
love  dwelt  amid  that  ineffable  goofiness — that 
superb  madness — and  the  young  folks  were 
happy. 

Lupe  wore  an  engagement  ring  and  a  wed- 
ding ring.     (She  paid  $1,000  apiece  for  them, 


WRIGLEV 


Wkat    Qjou    Q0ant 

It's  the  most  natural  thing  in  the  world  to 
want  to  be  attractive  and  the  easiest  thing 
in  the  world  to  be  if  you  only  cultivate  a  rosy, 
shapely  mouth.  The  daily  habit  of  chewing 
DOUBLE  MINT  will  do  more  for  your  teeth 
and  lips  than  can  be  estimated.  Scientists, 
Beauty  Specialists  and  Dentists  state  that 
chewing  helps  to  form  charming  mouth 
contours.  Keep  a  package  always  handy 
on  your  dressing  table  and  in  your  purse. 
Enjoy  it  during  the  many  informal  mo- 
ments which  you  have  throughout  the  day. 


96 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


u(3hic  ^ale— The 

Specialist 


decides 


I'LL  tell  you  about  a  technical  point 
that  was  put  to  me  the  other  day. 
The  question  was  this:  "Do  you  ad- 
vise everybody  to  eat  those  little 
chocolate  tablets  in  the  blue  tin  box?" 
It  stumped  me  fer  a  spell,  but  this 
bein'  a  reasonable  question,  I  checked 
up  and  I  sez:  "No,  I  don't.  There  are 
some  folks  that  I  advise  against  it. 

"If  you  are  an  ordinary  person,"  I 
sez,  "eat  'em.  They'll  do  you  good. 
Eat  'em  and  be  happy.  But  if  you 
are  one  of  these  folks  that  enjoy  bad 
health,  don't  eat  'em.  Because  if  you 
do  they'll  git  you  to  feelin'  fine.  Then 
you'll  be  unhappy  because  you  won't 
have  anything  to  complain  about." 


To  millions  E-X  -  L-A-X  spells  G-O-O-D 
H-E-A-L-T-H.  They're  the  little  chocolate 
tablets  in  the  blue  tin  box. 

Ex-Lax  checks  on  every  point  a  doctor  looks 
for  in  a  laxative.  The  exclusive  formula  of 
Ex-Lax  is  simply  the  correct  blending  of  the 
scientific  laxative  ingredient,  phenolphthalein, 
with  a  chocolated  base  of  delicious  quality. 

Ex-Lax  is  safe  and  effective  for  all  ages — 
non-habit  forming — convenient — and,  oh,  so 
delicious!  At  all  druggists  in  ioc,  25c  and  50c 
boxes.  Send  coupon  below  for  free  sample. 


Keep  '  'regular"  with 

EX- LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


f— NT-\     -r~ \  r~\  SAMPLE  of  Ex-Lax  and 
H     VI     H      H         "CHIC"   SALE'S  WELLS 
■*•»■■*—'■■—'         CORNERS  GAZETTE 


Name m 

Strut  and  Number.. 


City 1_ Stau 

Mail  this  coupon  to  The  Ex-Lax   Co..  Dept.  P  H-91 
,  P.  O.  Box  170.  Times  Plaza  Su..  Brooklyn.  N.  Y.  /*" 


but  no  one  knew  that  then!)  Mere  talk  rose 
to  a  roar.  But  Lupe  and  Gary  said  nothing — 
tended  to  their  own  business — just  went  on 
loving  each  other,  as  true  sweethearts  do.  Let 
the  world  gabble. 

The  conduct  of  their  romance  was  a  model 
of  propriety,  good  sense  and  good  taste  in  the 
face  of  a  curious  and  rapaciously  gossipy  pub- 
lic and  press. 

BUT  a  couple  of  months  ago  came  the  great 
change. 

Advice  was  given,  and  taken.  Probably  some 
pretty  cruel  things  were  said,  "for  the  best  in- 
terests of  all  concerned,"  the  phrase  sometimes 
goes.  It's  a  safe  wager  that  a  few  bitter,  salt 
tears  were  shed. 

Gary  had  been  ill — he's  always  been  too  tall 
for  his  tonnage,  it's  seemed  to  me.  Lupe  was 
between  pictures.  And,  oh — the  big  blaze  had 
been  doused,  that's  all.  Common  sense  and 
sober  argument  had  taken  off  the  glow,  rubbed 
off  the  sheen,  from  true  romance  that  never 
counted  costs. 

Gary,  thin  and  sober-eyed,  went  off  to  Eu- 
rope to  rest  and  recuperate.  Lupe  packed  some 
of  her  hundreds  of  gay  duds,  said  bye-bye  to 
her  seventy-seven  canaries  and  started  off  on 
a  tour  of  the  vaudevilles. 

I  saw  Gary  on  his  way  to  Europe — and  I 
saw  Lupe  on  Broadway — and  there  wasn't 
enough  spontaneous  gayety  in  the  two  of  them 
to  make  one  wooden-headed  marionette. 

Then  I  went  to  the  Palace,  that  vaudevil- 
lian's  heaven,  where  the  Mexican  Monsoon 
was  performing  as  the  headline  attraction. 

Oh  sure — Lupe  leaped,  and  leaped  vigor- 
ously. Lupe  did  a  rhumba  dance  that  all  but 
set  fire  to  the  back  drop,  and  did  send  the 
nude-headed  gents  in  the  front  row  into  parox- 
ysms and  howls  of  glee.  And  Lupe  did  a 
series  of  those  cruel,  keen  impersonations  that 
must  blister  some  of  Hollywood's  higher-toned 
doll-babies. 

Gloria  Swanson,  and  "my  dear  fellow-coun- 
trywoman, Dolores  del  Rio,"  and  a  new  and 
screamingly  funny  one  of  Marlene  "Main 
Stems"  Dietrich — how  brutal  and  devastating 
Lupe's  "imitations"  are! 

But  I  could  see  from  my  pew  in  Row  A — 
practically  in  the  lap  of  the  trap-drummer — 


that  Lupe  the  Whoopee  had  been  tamed  by 
the  bludgeonings  of  fate.  True,  she  was  up 
there  on  the  lighted  platform,  punching  away, 
giving  her  all  and  doing  her  damndest  for  the 
cash  customers. 

True,  also,  that  her  cavortings  and  bellow- 
ings  were  practically  a  hundred  per  cent  syn- 
thetic— there  was  a  definite  something  in  those 
hitherto  red-hot  eyes  that  told  me  she  was 
having  practically  no  fun  at  all,  up  there. 

No — Lupe  was  satisfying  the  customers,  that 
was  all,  and  I,  who  had  seen  her  lash  around 
when  she  really  meant  it,  felt  a  chill  in  spite  of 
the  high  temperature,  and  was  plenty  sad. 

I  never  quite  saw  orb  to  orb  with  some  of 
Lupe's  ill-advised  tricks — like  sticking  the  stubs 
of  her  guests'  cigars  in  the  salt  cellar  while 
their  backs  were  turned — but  at  the  same  time 
nobody  likes  to  see  a  panther  turned  into  a 
tabby  cat.  And  the  snap  had  certainly  gone 
out  of  Lupe's  garters. 

So  it's  finale,  curtains,  exit  march  and  out 
into  the  street  for  one  of  Hollywood's  hottest 
love  stories.  Oh,  when  Coop  gets  back  from 
the  other  side,  and  Lupe  parks  her  steel  guitar 
in  Hollywood  once  more,  they'll  meet,  and 
probably  see  eye  to  eye.  Big,  red  lumps  of 
love  never  quite  go  to  cold  ashes. 

But  doubt's  crept  in,  and  cold  reason,  and 
sober  judgment — and  all  those  silly  things  that 
douse  the  flame. 

"T'M  not  married,"  Lupe  tells  the  nosey  re- 
porters, "I  never  have  been  married,  and  I 
doubt  if  I  ever  will  be  married." 

"I'm  going  away  for  a  rest,"  Mr.  Cooper  re- 
marks to  the  press. 

And  they  ache  inside,  as  young  lovers  will, 
for  great  days  gone. 

Heigho!  Little  Eva  is  dead,  but  the  show 
goes  on.  Dizzy  Hollywood  will  turn  to  new 
tidbits,  new  romances,  new  gossip,  and  new 
flames. 

But  old  codgers  like  you  and  me  will  talk 
of  the  great  days  when  Lupe  and  Gary 
were  lovers — oh  Lordy,  how  they  could  love — 
swore  to  be  true  to  each  other. 

And  Lupe  will  be  leaping  around  with  her 
strangely  dead  eyes. 

And  Gary  will  just  be  goin'  along — just 
goin'  along  doing  his  stuff! 


A  New  Picture  Thief 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  69 


Blondell,  of  Blondell  and  Company — vaude- 
ville headliners — made  good  money  and  spent 
it  all — mostly  on  Blondy.  She  had  everything. 
Walking  and  talking  dolls  when  only  little 
millionairesses  were  supposed  to  afford  them. 
Private  schools  for  girls — which  she  hates. 

"  T  LEARNED  more  rot  in  girls'  schools  than 
•*•  I  ever  learned  on  the  stage — "  she  says 
with  decision.  And  she  has  ideas.  A  carload 
of  them.  Especially  about  men.  A  young 
Lochinvar  would  come  out  of  the  West  and 
sweep  her  off  her  landing  and  whirl  her  away  to 
happiness  forever  and  ever. 

He  came.  "I  found  my  dreams.  Only — " 
she  hesitated,  then  gulped  her  Spanish  rice 
hurriedly  with  a  grim  little  line  about  her 
mouth — "he  didn't.  He  had  his  dreams  and  I 
wasn't  one  of  them.  I  couldn't  do  anything, 
could  I?  He  answered  my  dreams;  I  didn't 
his."  She  shrugged.  "That's  when  I  learned 
my  motto  for  life:  Take  it  easy  and  laugh!" 

So  she's  still  in  love  with  a  dream  when  she 
needs  to  be  in  love  with  a  man! 

And  right  on  top  of  this  lesson,  the  rest  of 
her  life-blocks  toppled  around  her.  Vaudeville 
went  on  the  shoot-the-shoots  and  daddy  and 
mother  were  out  of  jobs.  They  had  two  thou- 
sand dollars.  They  got  out  a  map,  found  a 
town  named  Lessville,  in  Louisiana,  and  for 
no-reason-at-all    except    the    name    sounded 


different  from  any  town  they'd  ever  played  in 
any  country,  headed  for  it.  A  ready-to-wear 
shop  across  from  a  stool- restaurant! 

Joan's  eyes  widen  today  when  she  talks  of 
that  restaurant.  She  had  never  seen  anything 
like  it.  Her  training  and  her  dreams  didn't 
include  it. 

"  It  was  an  awful  place !  They  cut  hair  in  the 
front  of  our  shop.  I  sold  shoes;  my  sister  sold 
hose  and  my  mother  sold  dresses.  All  we  saw 
were  men  getting  shaves  and  hair  cuts.  On 
Saturday,  unless  somebody  stabbed  someone 
else,  the  day  was  unsuccessful  for  the  town  as 
well  as  the  restaurant! 

"I  was  getting  awfully  restless  when  I  looked 
on  the  street  one  noon,  and  saw  a  college  boy 
(one  of  the  few)  whom  I  knew  slightly,  sup- 
ported by  two  men.  I  ran  out  and  asked  what 
was  the  trouble  and  discovered  the  local  doctor 
had  amputated  his  arm  without  an  anaesthetic. 
In  two  hours  we  had  sold'out  and  were  moving. 
I  couldn't  stand  it!" 

TRENTON,  Texas,  next.  Another  ready-to- 
*— ^wear  emporium  which  catered  to  the  girls 
attending  the  College  of  Industrial  Arts. 
Everything  running  in  high-gear  when  the 
college  decided  uniforms  were  more  fitting  for 
young  ladies. 

Whoops!  The  business  hit  the  skids  with  a 
vengeance. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


97 


In  the  meantime,  Joan  had  been  playing 
tricks  on  the  rest  of  the  family.  She  had  gone 
to  Dallas  to  buy  dresses  (she  was  now  head- 
buyer!)  and  telephoned  home  to  say  she  was 
remaining  to  play  a  week  with  "No,  No, 
Nanette." 

She  took  another  week  off  for  "What  Price 
Glory." 

So  when  the  girls  put  the  ready-to-wear  on 
the  toboggan,  she  shook  her  shoulders,  squared 
her  hips  and  murmured,  "Somebody's  got  to 
take  care  of  this  family.  They're  a  vaudeville 
troup  and  therefore  they  don't  know  anything 
but  wandering  from  one  town  to  another  and 
spending  more  money  than  they  make.  I 
guess  it's  up  to  me — " 

SHE  manipulated  them  to  New  York  City. 
But  not  the  New  York  City  she  had  known 
with  father's  big  pay  check  of  a  few  years 
before.  They  didn't  look  up  their  friends;  they 
lived  in  Greenwich  Village  and  Joan  pounded 
pavements. 

She  even  went  to  new  booking  agents  so  the 
old  ones  wouldn't  learn  the  true  conditions. 
And  there  was  just  nothing  doing. 

Yet,  Joan  clung  to  that  two-year-old  phil- 
osophy, "Take  it  easy  and  laugh,"  and  stopped 
in  front  of  a  book  store  at  89th  and  Broadway 
to  take  it  easy  and  give  the  cardboard  soles  a 
rest. 

She  couldn't  help  but  laugh  at  the  messy 
array  of  books  in  that  window. 

Suddenly  she  had  an  inspiration  and  walked 
in.  "I  could  clean  up  that  window  for  five 
dollars  and  I  need  the  five  dollars." 

She  did  such  a  good  job  on  the  window  that 
the  woman  asked  her  if  she  could  use  twenty- 
five  dollars  weekly.  And  that's  how  Joan 
Blondell  got  the  money  to  go  to  John  Murray 
Anderson's  school  for  dancing  and  take  all  tin- 
other  lessons  that  go  with  stage  training  and 
support  her  family. 

Before  book  store  hours  and  after  them,  mind 
you. 

And  right  there,  she  should  walk  into  a  soft 
stage  job  and  fame  overnight  according  to  the 
run  of  such  stories.  Only  she  didn't.  The 
store  closed.  A  death  in  the  family.  And  Joan 
went  down  to  her  last  dime.  Not  dollar  but 
dime. 

Then  she  got  desperately  in  earnest. 

"  I've  just  got  to  find  another  store  window," 
she  told  herself.  "I  can't  take  it  easy  but  I  can 
laugh." 

So  she  went  into  Al  Wood's  office  with  a 
blister  on  her  heel,  pushed  her  hat  back,  yanked 
her  shoe  off  and  nursed  her  foot  and  laughed. 
A  man  came  out  and  addressed  the  score  of 
waiting,  desperate  young  women. 

"  Mr.  Woods  won't  be  back  todav.  You  can 
all  go." 

Then  he  heard  the  laugh  and  saw  the  shoe- 
less foot,  and  added,  "Except  the  little  girl  in 
the  red  hat." 

He  took  her  into  an  office  and  left  her.  While 
she  was  waiting  she  took  off  her  stocking,  too. 
She  was  nursing  her  bare  limb  when  a  man 
entered,  asked  what  was  the  trouble.  They 
fixed  up  the  foot  and  then  he  asked,  "Now, 
what  do  you  want;  why  are  you  here?" 

"T  WANT  a  good  job;  I'm  waiting  for  Al 
1  Woods." 

"Well,  I'm  Al  Woods  and  we'll  get  you  a 
job—" 

The  lisping  girl  in  "Mary  Dugan"  was  the 
end  of  that  conference  and  the  beginning  of  a 
career  which  is  really  still  just  beginning. 

"So  you  see,  I  was  really  just  taking  it  easy 
and  nursing  a  foot  when  I  got  my  break  and  do 
you  know,  I  think  the  trouble  with  me  this 
morning  was  I'd  forgotten  to  'Take  it  easy  and 
laugh.'  I'm  going  back  right  now  and  stop 
worrying  and  I'll  get  that  shot  right.  Thank 
you  for  letting  me  talk  it  out  to  you.  Come 
over  for  an  interview  any  time  you're  ready — " 

I  think  I'll  just  start  taking  interviews  easy, 
too.  Joan.  Thanks  for  the  invitation.  I 
haven't  accepted  because  you  taught  me  your 
lesson ! 


A    NEW 


FACE   FOR   YOU 

You  have  had  a  gorgeous  summer  —  but  what  has  the  blazing,  with- 
ering sun  done  to  you?  The  drying  sun  coarsens  the  skin,  makes  it 
sallow — perhaps  it  has  given  you  freckles  or  squint  lines 

Helena  Rubinstein,  the  greatest  beauty  specialist  in  the  world, 
gives  you  the  simple  secret  of  overcoming  these  harmful  effects 
quickly  and  economically.  It  is  necessary  that  you  should  begin 
this  treatment  at  once.  Clarify  and  beautify  your  skin  —  renew 
your  face  for  autumn  with  these  amazing  preparations — 


TWO  MARVELOUS  CREAMS 

Instead  of  the  usual  cleansing  creams 
use  PASTEURIZED  FACE  CREAM. 

It  does  so  many  other  things  besides 
just  cleansing.  It  cools,  soothes  and 
refreshes  your  skin,  restores  its 
smoothness  and  softness,  and  erases 
those  ugly  little  squint  lines.  It  is 
really  a  complete  little  beauty  treat- 
ment in  itself — excellent  for  hands, 
arms  and  elbows,  and  such  a  wonder- 
ful make-up  foundation!      .       i.oo 

Pasteurized  Face  Cream  Special  for 
dry  skin,  i.oo.  PASTEURIZED 
BLEACHING  CREAM  bleaches  as 
it  cleanses i.oo 

*  *  * 

Quickly  restore  radiant  clarity  to  dull 
sallow  skin  with  SKIN  CLEARING 
CREAM  (Beautifying  Skinfood). 
This  remarkable  cream  erases  freckles 
and  tan,  and  refines  coarsened  skin 
as  if  by  magic.  An  absolute  beauty 
necessity  to  all  skins  at  all  seasons — 
but  most  especially  now        .         i.oo 

*  *  * 

Wash  away  blackheads  with  BLACK- 
HEAD AND  OPEN  PORE  PASTE. 
It  corrects  oiliness  and  coarse  pores 


STARTLINGLY     BEAUTIFUL     MAKE-UP! 

No  one  but  Helena  Rubinstein  with 
her  vast  knowledge  of  all  skins  and 
her  great  talent  for  facial  color 
schemes  could  create  these  marvel- 
ous cosmetics. 

VALAZE  POWDER— Perfect  in 
quality  and  coloring, — as  lasting  as 
it  is  flattering.  Specially  prepared  for 
Oily  and  Normal  or  Dry  Skin,  i.oo 
VALAZE  ROUGES  — The  most  en- 
chanting rouges  you  have  ever  used. 
Clear,  brilliant  tones  to  complement 
every  complexion:  Red  Raspberry, 
Red  Geranium  i.oo.  The  new  Red 
Coral  is  permanently  beautifying,  i.oo 

VALAZE  LIPSTICK-Brings  youthful, 
vibrant  coloring  and  satin  smooth- 
ness to  your  lips.       .       .       .       i.oo 

PERSIAN  EYEBLACK  (The  super- 
mascara)  Stays  on — does  not  make 
lashes  stiff  or  brittle.     .      i.oo,  1.50 

VALAZE  EYELASH  GROWER 
AND  DARKENER      .      .      .      1.00 

WATER  LILY  DEODORANT 
TALC 1.00 

Write  to  Helena  Rubinstein,  de- 
scribe your  skin  and  coloring  and 
you  will  receive  her  personal  advice 
— without  charge. 


instantly.  Use  it  instead  of  soap.  1.00 

Helena  Rubinstein's  creations  are  on  sale  at  Dept.  and  Drug  Stores  everywhere 


hel 


Li 


ena  rubinstem 


8  East  57th  Street 

PARIS    •    LONDON    •   CANNES   •   MILAN    •   TORONTO 


*  New  York 

CHICAGO   •    BOSTON    •    DETROIT 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


The  Shadow  Stage 

The  National  Guide  to  Motion  Pictures 


(REG.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF.) 


Nebon'»  work    (1)    be- 
fore and  (2)  after  Federal 
School  (raining. 

Now  he  DRAW$ 

the  things  he  wants 

'  .OOK  at  drawing  No.  1  above. 
■*— '  Then  compare  it  with  No.  2  and 
note  the  improvement  Federal  School 
training  has  made  in  the  work  of  Art 
Nelson.  He  formerly  worked  as  a 
surveyor's  assistant  at  $18.00  a  week. 
Today  as  an  illustrator  he  makes 
$65.00  a  week.  He  says,  "The  Federal 
Schools  made  this  possible  through 
their  training  and  co-operation  as  I 
had  only  average  ability  before  enroll- 
ing as  a  student."  Nelson  is  one  of 
many  young  people  making  big  money 
because  of  Federal  training. 

Publishers  buy  millions  of  dollars 
worth  of  illustrations  every  year.  If 
you  like  to  draw,  let  your  talent  make 
your  living.  The  Federal  Course  in- 
cludes illustrating,  cartooning,  letter- 
ing, poster  designing,  window  card 
illustrating,  etc.  Over  fifty  famous 
artists  have  contributed  to  the  Federal 
Course.  It's  easy  to  learn  the  "Federal 
Home-Study  Way." 

Test  Your  Drawing  Talent 

How  well  can  you  draw?  Will  you 
make  an  artist?  These  questions  are 
fully  answered  by  our  free  Vocational 
Art  Test.  Send  for  it  today.  Get  on 
the  "Road  to  Bigger 
Things."  Fill  out  the 
coupon  now. 


C/of  Illustrating 


FEDERAL    SCHOOL   OF   ILLUSTRATING, 

9101  Federal  School  Bldg.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
Please  send  your  free  hook,  "A  Road  to  Bigger 
Things,"    together   with    Vocational   Art   Test. 

Name Age 

Occupation    

Address 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  59  ] 


THE  MAGNIFICENT  LIE— Paramount 

(~\UT  and  out  Chatterton  fans  will  like  "The 
^>'MagnincentLie,"  but  it  isn't  up  to  her  usual 
pictures.  However,  the  picture  brings  forward 
a  fine,  forceful  personality  with  a  magnificent 
voice  in  Ralph  Bellamy,  the  leading  man,  and 
Stuart  Erwin  gives  us  his  usual  fine  comedy 
relief  in  a  sad  story. 

THE  MERRY  WIVES  OF  VIENNA— 
Super  Film  Prod. 

"V\  7HEN  foreign-made  films  are  sober,  few 
*»  of  ours  compare  with  their  gloom.  But 
when  they're  gay,  like  this  one,  where  are 
others  so  sparkling?  Even  if  you  no  speak 
Deutsch,  you'll  enjoy  this.  You'll  love  the 
music,  especially  the  rippling  waltz  songs. 

CA  UGHT— Paramount 

A  LTHOUGH  this  is  billed  as  a  Richard 
-**Arlen  picture,  it's  really  Louise  Dresser's. 
She  appears,  and  interestingly,  in  the  character 
of  Calamity  Jane,  a  much-mythed-about  per- 
sonage of  the  old  West.  Jane's  an  outlaw  and 
Arlen  comes  in  as  the  head  of  the  band  of  sol- 
diers sent  out  to  get  her.  He  does;  it's  found 
she's  his  mother,  and  all  ends  more  or  less 
happily. 

SPORTING  BLOOD— M-G-M 

AN  exquisitely  photographed  biography  of 
■**-a  race  horse.  Clark  Gable  is  featured,  but 
Gable  fans  will  be  disappointed  at  the  fact  that 
the  film  runs  forty-five  minutes  before  he 
makes  his  first  appearance.  From  then  on, 
the  boy's  good.  Horse  devotees  will  thrill  at 
the  story.  Ernest  Torrence  and  Madge  Evans 
do  grand  work,  but  the  photographers  rate  top 
honors,  especially  in  the  Blue  Grass  country 
scenes. 

THE  BRAT— Fox 

MAUDE  FULTON'S  famous  stage  play  of 
the  night  court  waif,  who,  adopted  into 
an  egotistical  author's  home,  upsets  rows  of 
apple  carts  before  the  happy  ending,  makes  a 
good  movie.  As  the  brat  herself,  Sally  O'Neil 
makes  an  interesting  comeback.  Her  rough- 
and-tumble  battle  with  Virginia  Cherrill  alone 
is  worth  the  admission  price.  Some  lovely 
gowns  are  worn  by  Cherrill  and  June  Collyer. 
Photography  fine. 

/  LIKE  YOUR  NERVE— First  National 

YOU  remember  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Sr., 
in  "The  Americano"?  Here's  practically 
the  same  plot  played  by  Douglas,  Jr.  Only 
it's  not  as  good  as  the  silent — perhaps  because 
Doug.  Jr.,  only  climbs  one  trellis  while  father 
hopped  from  one  to  another.  The  son  does  a 
nice  piece  of  light,  airy  work,  however,  and 
Loretta  Young  is  easier  to  look  at  than  ever. 
The  fault  lies  in  another  weak  story. 

ENEMIES  OF  THE  LAW— Regal  Prod. 

A  NOTHER  gangster  film  with  Mary  Nolan 
■**-as  the  Eagle's  moll,  but  really  Miss  66  from 
the  inspector's  office.  Lou  Tellegen,  face  lift 
and  all,  plays  the  heavy.  The  plastic  surgeon 
did  a  lot,  but  he  didn't  stop  Lou  from  mugging. 
Tellegen  is  the  Swan,  Johnny  Walker  the 
Eagle.  And  in  case  you  don't  feel  badly  enough 
already,  everybody  is  very  tough  and  they  all 
get  killed. 


MURDER  BY  THE  CLOCK— 
Paramount 

TT'S  a  shame!  With  such  a  cast  this  should 
•M)e  a  wow.  As  is  usual  with  poor  pictures,  the 
story  treatment  is  to  blame.  It's  disjointed 
and  slow.  Even  terrific  gruesomeness,  based 
upon  three  murders,  doesn't  save  it.  Only 
those  who  enjoy  shudders  at  any  cost  will  be 
thrilled.  Don't  blame  Libyan  Tashman,  Wil- 
liam Boyd,  Irving  Pichel,  Regis  Toomey,  Sally 
O'Neil  or  the  long  list  of  other  fine  players. 

EAST  OF  BORNEO— Universal 

•"PHIS  is  another  of  the  far-away  adventure 
*■  stories  that  must  inevitably  follow  in  the 
wakeof  "TraderHorn."  It'sa  splendidly  photo- 
graphed thrill-story  against  a_background  com- 
pounded of  real  Borneo  scenery  and  animal- 
shots,  plus  excellent  studio  miniatures  and 
other  "fakery."  It's  exciting  enough  and  beau- 
tiful enough  to  satisfy  theater-goers,  with  ade- 
quate work  by  Charles  Bickford,  Rose  Hobart 
and  Georges  Renavent. 

THE  SKIN  GAME— British 
International 

HPHIS  isn't  one  of  those  things  to  make  you 
■*■  leave  the  theater  turning  handsprings — a 
little  too  long  drawn  out  and  tedious — but  it 
is  especially  well  acted  and  is  touched  by  that 
rare  charm  which  Galsworthy's  plays  always 
have.  Because  the  film  was  made  in  England, 
the  actors  are  unfamiliar;  however,  Edmund 
Gwenn  takes  first  honors.  And  there's  a  very 
nice  girl,  Jill  Esmond. 

SIDE  SHOW— Warners 

ARTHUR  CAESAR  is  supposed  to  be  a 
brilliant  wit.  He  must  save  his  bright  re- 
marks for  Hollywood  drawing-rooms  since  he 
is  credited  with  the  insipid  dialogue  of  this  one. 
You  can't  blame  Winnie  Lightner  or  Charles 
Butterworth  who  do  the  best  they  can  with 
impossible  situations  and  lines.  Of  course, 
there  are  a  few  funny  gags  and  a  very  naughty 
song.    It's  a  circus  yarn. 

SALVATION  NELL—Tiffany-Cruze 

HELEN  CHANDLER  almost  makes  you 
believe  there  are  still  meek  little  girls  like 
the  one  she  portrays,  who  continue  to  love  and 
cherish  men  who  take  everything  from  them, 
including  money  and  virtue,  and  give  nothing. 
Ralph  Graves,  as  the  ne'er-do-well  lover,  con- 
vinces you  there  are  men  just  like  him  whom 
women  love  in  spite  of  themselves.  Religion 
and  sentiment  are  pretty  obvious  in  this  out- 
of-date  story. 

WILD  HORSE— Allied 

HOOT  GIBSON,  ridin'  hard  for  the  top- 
ranking  place  among  screen  Western  play- 
ers, works  hard.  He  does  some  trick  rodeo 
riding,  captures  a  wild  horse,  a  bank  bandit,  a 
murderer  and  his  audience's  delight.'  Scenes 
with  trained  horses  add  to  the  thrills,  and  a 
fight  between  two  of  them  is  an  out-of-the- 
ordinary  screen  shot. 

THE  FIGHTING  SHERIFF— Columbia 

HERE'S  another  Western,  departing  hardly 
at  all  from  the  dependable  old  formula  of 
outlaws,  the  villain,  the  sweet  and  naive  her- 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


99 


oine,  the  good  and  honest  hero  and  the  usual 
mechanics  of  working  it  all  out  to  a  happy 
ending.  However,  it's  packed  with  action, 
snappily  directed,  and  adequately  played  by 
Buck  Jones,  Loretta  Saycrs.  Nena  Quartaro 
and  others,  so  it'll  probably  entertain  most 
picture-goers. 

WOMEN  GO  ON  FOREVER— 
Tiffany-Cruze 

CLARA  KIMBALL  YOUNG  makes  an  in- 
teresting comeback  in  this — a  racketeering 
yarn  wherein  she  effectively  plays  the  hard- 
boiled  landlady  of  that  sort  of  apartment  house 
where  almost  anything  may  happen.  And 
does.  Murders,  a  few  heart  affairs,  illicit  and 
otherwise,  and  various  forms  of  life-on-the- 
edge  keep  the  picture  lively  and  frequently 
thrilling.  Plenty  of  comedy  relief  keeps  it  from 
overheaviness. 

WOMEN  MEN  MARRY— 
Headline  Prod. 

IF  you  don't  take  this  seriously,  you  may  find 
it  not  too  dull.  A  young  couple  (Sally  Blane 
and  Randolph  Scott)  move  to  New  York,  and 
the  wicked  city  proves  too  much  for  the  good 
little  wife.  While  hubby  is  working  hard  to 
make  good  in  the  big  city  his  young  bride  gets 
into  all  sorts  of  indiscreet  and  dangerous  situa- 
tions, led  on  by  that  film  adventuress,  Natalie 
Moorehead.  Miss  Moorhead  wears  stunning 
clothes. 

SHERLOCK  HOLMES'  FATAL  HOUR 
— Warners — First  Division 

WHEN  you  have  seen  this  picture— if  such 
is  to  be  your  Fate — you'll  be  convinced 
that  Slicrlock  Holmes  was  the  dullest,  most 
tedious  man  who  ever  made  a  deduction.  And 
Watson  nothing  short  of  an  idiot.  This  is  about 
a  criminal  who  simply  insists  upon  forging 
Bank  of  England  notes.  What  do  you  make 
of  it,  Watson?  We'll  take  Philo  Vance  and 
Charlie  Chan. 

LASCA  OF  THE  RIO  GRANDE— 
Universal 

JUST  another  Western — only  this  one  is  South 
of  the  Rio  Grande.  Jimmy  Mack  Brown  is 
the  ranger;  Leo  Carrillo  the  bad  man  and  Slim 
Summerville  the  touch  of  humor.  Dorothy 
Burgess  is  the  dame — of  contention.  There's 
good  riding,  some  not  bad  scenery  and  the 
usual  fights  and  gun  play  to  thrill  Western 
fans. 


According  to  Seymour,  you'll  be  wear- 
ing hats  like  this  one  of  June  Collyer's 
this  Fall.  It  has  a  decided  Second 
Empire  feeling  what  with  the  sharp 
dip  over  the  right  eye  and  the  bow 
trimming  at  the  side.  In  white  felt 
with  black  velvet  ribbon  trim.  Very 
coquettish,  isn't  it? 


FREE 


NEW    35^    BOTTLE 

THIS    SAFE    DEODORANT 


ACTUAL  SIZE 
FREE  BOTTLE 


YOUR  CHANCE  TO  ENJOY  WITHOUT  COST 

4  special  advantages 
of  this  safe  deodorant 


rr 


SAFETY  TEST 


^ORDINARY 
Deodorants 

Averoge  Acid  Content — 
Safe  if  used  as  directed 


+  NONSPI 

So   safe  you   can   shave 
immediately  AFTER   use 


i 


.NEUTRAL  POINT 


pH  Measurement 

Shows  great  difference  in 
safely  between  ordinary 
deodorants  and    Nonspi. 


Safe  for  your  skin.  A  Special 
ingredient,  found  only  in 
Nonspi,  adds  greatly  to  its 
safety  and  effectiveness. 
Safe  for  your  clothes.  14  del- 
icate fabrics  soaked  in  Non- 
spi showed  no  rotting  what- 
ever.    Chart  tells  why. 

2  ways  to  use 

Quick  2-minnte  way:  Apply, 
let  dry  2  minutes,  rinse  off 
and  dress.  Gives  at  least  24 
hours'  protection  from 
perspiration  and  odor. 
Lasting  way:  Apply,  let  dry 
10  minutes,  rinse  off  and 
dress.  Gives  3  days'  pro- 
tection. 

Ends  shaving  delay 

Apply  Nonspi  in  usual  way. 
Then  shave  underarm.   No 


waiting  24  to  48  hours 
with  this  safe  deodorant. 
You  can  use  Nonspi  and 
shave  in  only  4  minutes  I 

35l  size  free 
This  unprecedented  offer 
is  made  to  introduce  the 
smart,  new  Nonspi  bottle 
—  worthy  of  being  seen  on 
any  well-appointed  dressing 
table,  yet  so  designed  that  it 
fits  easily  into  the  most 
crowded  cabinet. 

Also  included  in  the  pack- 
age with  this  free  offer  are 
six  J  &  J  Couettes,  little 
pads  of  cotton,  for  apply- 
ing Nonspi  the  most  con- 
venient way. 

Mail  coupon  for  your  free 
bottle  today. 


THE  NONSPI  COMPANY,  Dept.  9B 

Please  send  me  free  a  35<  bottle  of  Nonspi. 

113  West  18th  Street.  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Address 

IOO 


1 

VbazinI 

^ 

4 

> 

REMOVES 
HAIR 

Apply  fresh,  cool 

m        X-Bazin  cream  on 

legs    and  under 

arms.  You   have 

scarcely  capped  the 

tube  and  put  it  away 

when  the   hair   is 

destroyed,    its   future 

growth    diminished. 

The  result?A  skin  with 

no  blue,  shaved  look,no 

tell-tale  irritation  —  a 

y  -      skin  virginally  smooth, 

i   white  and  hair-free! 

X-Bazin  is  the   quick,  sure, 
safe  and  reliable  way. 

Order  it  today  from  drug  or  de- 
partment stores — 50c  alarge  tube; 
sample  tubes  10c  at  5-and-10 
cent  stores. 
X-Bazin  also  comes  in  powder  form. 

HALL  &  RUCKEL.  Inc. 
Est.  1848        Brooklyn,  New  York 

Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 

FIRST  AID—Sono  Art  ALIAS  THE  BAD  MAN— Tiffany  Prod. 


Hen 
IMITATED 

but  never 
DUPLICATED 

YOU  find  Katherine  Mac- 
Donald's  Lash  Cosmetic 
as  used  by  the  stars  of  Holly 

wood  gives  no  hint  of  artificiality,  for  it  leaves  your  lashes 
soft  and  silky,  yet  is  positively  waterproof.  Cry,  swim, 
get  soaked  in  the  rain.  .  no  water  can  make  it  streak 
or  run.  Contains  no  varnish,  so  cannot  flake  or  break 
your  lashes.   Easily  removed  with  cold  cream. 

Efforts  have  been  made  to  copy  this  wonderful  liquid 
mascara  but  without  success.  Handy  purse  sue  gold 
capped  bottle,  black  or  brown,  $i. 

KATHERINE  MUcDONALD'S 
LASH 
COSMETIC 

(waterproof  I 


i  1 7 


1 


Katherine  MacDonald,  Hollywood.  Calif. 


ffiviene  sstlKetfre 


T_TERE  is  a  melodramatic  absurdity  that  is 
*-  -*-a  throwback  to  the  silent  screen's  early 
days,  and  the  fellow  who  threw  this  one  threw 
it  back  a  long  way.  It  is  full  of  jewel  thieves, 
drunken  ambulance  doctors,  erring  brothers 
and  virtuous  dance  hall  hostesses,  all  of  whom 
do  unconvincing  things  unconvincingly.  You 
wouldn't  even  like  it  even  if  it  was  good.  Grant 
Withers,  Marjorie  Beebe  and  Wheeler  Oak- 
man  are  the  principals. 

THE  MYSTERY  OF  LIFE— Classic 

A  CLASS-ROOM  lecture  on  evolution  trans- 
■**•  ported  to  the  screen,  with  Clarence  Dar- 
row,  celebrated  lawyer  and  lecturer,  and  Dr. 
H.  M.  Parshley,  professor  of  zoology  at  Smith 
College,  explaining  the  process.  The  film  cov- 
ers the  millions  of  years  since  our  common 
progenitors  were  just  a  scrambled  lot  of  be- 
wildered amoebas,  making  whoopee  in  an  an- 
tediluvian ooze.  It's  dull  and  unentertaining, 
full  of  charts  and  papier  machc  figures. 


HTHIS  time  Ken  Maynard  is  a  Texas  ranger 
•*■  who  conceals  his  identity  while  unraveling 
the  mystery  of  who  killed  his  pappy  and  rustled 
the  cattle.  What  should  have  been  a  simple 
and  conventional  Western  has  been  developed 
into  an  absurd,  unbelievable  story.  Even  con- 
firmed Western  fans,  who  expect  and  demand 
little  in  the  way  of  originality  from  this  type 
of  entertainment,  will  find  it  hard  to  swallow. 

MEN  OF  THE  SKY— First  National 

A  NOTHER  in  that  group  of  war  pictures 
*  »-which  gave  Marlene  Dietrich  and  Doug. 
Fairbanks,  Jr.,  such  excellent  vehicles,  but 
which  is  too  flimsy  and  miscast  to  come  up  to 
the  standard  set  by  these  two.  If  you  can 
imagine  Bramwell  Fletcher,  an  English  actor 
with  a  decided  English  accent,  playing  a  Ger- 
man officer,  yours  is  a  vivid  imagination,  in- 
deed. Irene  Delroy  and  Jack  Whiting  belong 
in  musical  comedy,  not  drama. 


Charm?  No!  No!  You  Must  Have  Glamour 

(  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  39  ] 


and  CULTURAL  Bubjcctn  for  pemonal  development —  Stage, Teach- 
ni*.  Directing-Drama,  Stage  and  Concert  Dancing.  Vocal,  Screen,  Mo. 
nical  Comedy,  Elocution.  Stock  Theatre  and  platform  appearances  while 
learning.      For   catalog   16  apply   P.  Ely.  Sec'y,   66  W.  85th  St.,   N.  Y. 

SUBSCRIBE  FOR  PHOTOPLAY 

U6C  Convenient  Subscription  Blank  on  Page  118 


seduction?  Would  the  fans  stand  it?  Would 
they  ever  go  to  see  her  pictures  again?  Look 
at  Norma  today.  One  small  seduction!  Shades 
of  the  purity  league!  Look  what  she  did  in 
"The  Divorcee,"  in  "Strangers  May  Kiss,"  in 
"A  Free  Soul." 

Certainly  a  little  peccadillo  is  now  one  of  the 
minor  vices.  Nowadays  the  heroine  goes  right 
out  and  gets  her  man  and  does  with  him  as  she 
wills. 

Nobody  minds,  and  the  fans  seem  to  like  it. 
Money,  box-office  money,  speaks. 

IT'S  all  because  now  Norma  has  glamour. 
A  self-made  glamour,  it  is  true,  but  glamour 
nevertheless.  Her  clothes  (that  loose  evening 
gown  she  wore  in  "A  Free  Soul"),  her  spritely, 
gay  manner,  her  rippling  laugh — which,  if  you 
ask  me,  ripples  over  our  screen  a  little  too 
fluently — her  madcap  method  of  living — all 
these  things  have  surrounded  her  upon  the 
screen.  Shearer,  with  that  sixth  sense  that 
has  made  her  what  she  now  is,  realized  long 
before  the  rest  of  us  that  this  was  the  new 
mood. 

She  even,  upon  occasions,  surrounds  her  per- 
sonal life  with  an  aura  of  glamour. 

If  you  were  to  see  Dietrich  in  "Three  Loves," 
a  German  film  made  before  Joseph  Von  Stern- 
berg found  those  black  silk  stockings  and 
garters,  you  would  not  believe  her  the  same 
old  poker  face  who  met  the  firing  squad  in 
"Dishonored." 

She  is,  in  "Three  Loves,"  rather  plump, 
rather  bouncing  and  she  skips  through  her 
scenes  with  a  lightsomeness  that  the  glamorous 
ladies  never  allow  themselves. 

And  if  "Gosta  Berling's  Saga,"  Garbo's  first 
important  Swedish  epic,  happened  to  cross 
your  line  of  vision,  you  will  remember  Garbo 
then  as  a  rather  cow-eyed,  heavy  heroine  who 
hadn't  any  notion  what  it  was  all  about. 
A  far  cry — a  far  cry,  indeed ! — from  these  two 
early  European  ladies  to  the  women  we  know 
upon  the  screen. 

And  who  would  ever  have  thought  that  the 
plump  Joan  Crawford  of  "Sally,  Irene  and 
Mary"  could  be  the  same  vivid,  exciting  girl 
of  "Our  Blushing  Brides"?  "Sally,  Irene  and 
Mary"  recalls  the  fact  that  Constance  Bennett 
played  the  lead  in  that  film.  She  didn't  make 
much  of  a  hit. 

She  had  glamour  then  when  nobody  could 
use  it. 

So  instead  of  going  on  and  sinking  into  slow 
obscurity  she  married  a  young  millionaire,  led 
a  gay  Parisian  life,  got  a  divorce  and  returned 
to  enroll,  as  best  pupil,  in  the  glamour  school. 


I  hate  to  keep  harping  on  it,  but  it  seems  to 
me  that  one  of  the  great  screen  tragedies  is 
the  case  of  Aileen  Pringle — a  woman  much 
before  her  time.  She  lived,  upon  the  screen, 
in  that  sharply  defined  black  and  white  era 
when  a  woman  was  very,  very  good  or  very, 
very  bad.  Those  nice  gray  heroines  were  un- 
known. 

Aileen  has  glamour — the  playmate  of  the 
intelligentsia,  the  smart  sophisticate — all  the 
things  that  are  required. 

But  when  she  was  a  star,  nobody  knew  what 
that  was  all  about. 

Maybe  she'll  make  a  come-back,  like 
Shearer.    She  deserves  it. 

Lilyan  Tashman,  of  course,  set  about  to 
make  herself  smart,  sophisticated,  glamorous. 
It  was  a  definite  campaign  on  Lil's  part  and 
she's  succeeded. 

And  being  glamorous  is  the  only  hope  of 
movie  survival. 

Where  are  the  ingenues? 

I've  already  mentioned  three.  But  there  are 
others — Betty  Bronson,  Madge  Bellamy,  Mary 
Philbin,  Colleen  Moore,  Marceline  and  Alice 
Day,  Jeanette  Loff  and  many,  many  more. 
All  nice  girls. 

Gone — all  gone. 

BUT  even  before  this  group,  even  before  the 
day  of  the  vamps  already  mentioned  there 
was  an  ingenue  era.  It  runs  like  this — sweet 
girls,  vamps,  sweet  girls  again  and  now 
glamour. 

There  was  Mary  Pickford,  Mary  Miles 
Minter  (who  imitated  her  none  too  success- 
fully), Blanche  Sweet,  Edith  Storey,  Lila  Lee 
(the  "Cuddles"  Lila  and  not  the  girl  who 
blossomed  into  sophisticated  roles  later), 
Lillian  Gish,  May  Allison,  Mae  Marsh.  Re- 
member those  glorified  close-ups? 

A  girl  could  not  be  a  star  without  a  halo  of 
golden  hair. 

The  halo  was  supposedly  made  by  pure  sun- 
light but  in  reality  it  was  an  electrician's 
trick. 

If  you  will  glance  with  me  through  the  con- 
tract lists  of  the  various  studios,  you'll  find 
the  truth  of  all  this. 

We  now  want  something  to  tickle  the 
imagination,  something  to  whet  the  sophis- 
ticated appetite. 

Something  to  lift  us  out  of  ourselves  away 
from  the  people  who  behave  like  human 
beings — the  people  we  know. 

Among  the  feminine  players  at  Paramount, 
you'll  find  the  most  outstanding  are  Dietrich, 
Lilyan  Tashman,  Eleanor  Boardman  (no  longer 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


io  l 


the  'ngenue,  but  a  woman  with  a  woman's 
mind),  Claudette  Colbert,  Juliette  Compton, 
Carole  Lombard,  Kay  Francis.  The  only  real 
ingenue  is  Frances  Dee.  Hut  she's  been  taken 
up  by  Director  Von  Sternberg,  so  who  knows 
what  might  happen. 

AT  M-G-M  you'll  find  the  Garbo,  the  Craw- 
ford, the  Shearer.  Marion  Davies  is  a  light 
comedienne.  Certainly  Leila  Hyams  is  far  from 
being  ingenuish.  And  there's  also  Hedda 
Hopper. 

Anita  Page  is  still  there,  but  she  has  not 
made  good  her  promise  of  stardom.  No 
glamour,  you  see. 

Dorothy  Jordan  is  an  exception,  and  yet  she 
does  seem  to  put  more  into  her  roles  than  mere 
sweetness. 

Pathe  is  knee  deep  in  glamour — Pola  Negri, 
Ann  Harding,  Constance  Bennett.  There  is 
also  Helen  Twelvetrees,  who  began  by  being 
Gish-y  and  ended  by  being  "Millie." 

The  same  condition  exists  at  most  of  the 
other  studios.  But  there's  one  amazing  ex- 
ception. Janet  Gaynor  is  Sweetness  and  Sun- 
shine in  its  most  advanced  stages  and  yet  you 
love  her.  "Daddy  Long  Legs,"  a  sweet, 
sweet  picture,  upset  everything  by  insisting 
upon  breaking  records  at  the  box-office.  This 
is,  it  seems,  some  strange  phenomenon,  for 
which  there  is  no  accounting.  Of  course,  the 
public  taste  is  as  ephemeral  as  a  penny  balloon 
and  maybe  by  the  time  this  gets  in  print  you'll 
be  bored  with  glamour  and  wanting  something 
else. 

But  at  the  moment,  glamour  has  it,  and  if 
the  lovelorn  column  conductors  want  to  keep 
abreast  of  the  times  they'd  better  start  doling 
out  advice  about  how  to  achieve  it.  You 
simply  won't  be  able  to  get  a  date  for  the  junior 
prom  without  it. 

It  is  difficult.  Charm  and  sweetness  are 
more  easily  managed  because  they're  more 
understandable. 

Glamour  is  as  elusive  as  Garbo  being  inter- 
viewed. 

Looking  at  it  purely  objectively  it  seems  to 
be  something  that  one  gets  by  sitting  quietly 
in  a  corner  and  letting  not  a  flicker  of  in- 
telligence, interest  or  even  just  a  faint  sug- 
gestion that  you're  really  living,  cross  the  face. 
It  seems  to  be,  also,  something  about  never 
smiling — except  in  a  slow,  bitter  way.  And 
it  seems  to  be  mentally  counting  ten  between 
every  word  of  every  sentence.  But  it's  more 
than  that.  That  is  the  Dietrich-Garbo  glam- 
our. 

Shearer  glamour  is  being  sparkling  but  not 
meaning  a  single  word  or  gesture. 

It  all  seems  to  center  about  unrest  and 
wanting  something  or  other  which  never  seems 
to  happen. 

We're  getting  pretty  doggone  neurotic,  we 
are. 

T  PERSONALLY  haven't  been  able  to  get  the 
*■  straight  of  the  thing.  Dull  little  girls  sud- 
denly burst  out  as  glamorous,  gorgeous  ladies. 
I  ought  to  be  able  to  give  you  advice  about 
how  to  do  it,  but  since  I've  not  been  able  to 
go  glamorous,  I  always  think  I'd  feel  a  little 
silly  if  I  tried  it  and  I  know  my  friends — the 
mugs — would  laugh.  I'm  not  much  of  a  one 
to  tell  you  how. 

The  best  way,  I  believe,  if  you  insist  upon 
bringing  all  this  into  your  personal  life,  is  to 
sit  alone  with  your  soul  in  your  favorite 
darkened  theater  and  watch  the  screen  antics 
— or  rather  the  total  lack  of  antics — of  Garbo, 
Dietrich,  Elissa  Landi,  Pola  Negri,  Constance 
Bennett,  Lilyan  Tashman,  Tallulah  Bankhcad 
and  like  ilk.  Then  go  out  and  try  to  be  glam- 
orous. You  must  do  it  for  social  success  these 
days. 

Cut  off  the  curls,  slick  down  the  hair,  get 
lithe,  go  blonde,  very  blonde,  and  try  glamour 
on  your  friends. 

You'll  probably  get  laughed  at — but  better 
luck  next  time! 

At  least,  you  simply  must  stop  being  charm- 


SHE  SPENT  HER  VACATION  IN  A 

PORCH-CHAIR   BECAUSE  SHE  NEGLECTED 

"ATHLETE'S 
FOOT" 


%  "*S&^ 


,  •  ^ 


#  All  summer  she  had  counted  on  mak- 
ing her  vacation  one  continual  set  of  ten- 
nis. But  now,  when  the  men  begged  her  to 
play,  she  had  to  refuse  and  watch  them 
from  the  porch-chair. 

In  other  words,  she  had  a  well-developed 
case  of  "Athlete's  Foot."  Between  four 
toes  the  skin  was  cracked,  red,  raw  and 
had  begun  to  peel — just  because  she  didn't 
know  this  infection  might  cause  real  trouble 
when  neglected. 

Only  two  short  weeks  ago  there  was  just 
a  tiny  wet  spot  beneath  one  toe.  At  night 
it  itched  a  little,  the  skin  looked  unpleas- 
antly moist  and  dead.  Not  serious  then, 
she  passed  these  symptoms*  without  a 
second  thought. 

Don't  YOU  take  chances 
with  this  infection 

If  you  want  to  enjoy  your  favorite  sports, 
your  week-end  jaunts  this  summer,  douse 
Absorbine  Jr.  on  your  feet  at  the  slightest 
symptom*  of  "Athlete's  Foot,"  which  is 
caused  by  a  tiny  parasite  called  tinea 
trichophyton. 

It  may  attack  you  any  time,  any  place, 

*  WATCH  FOR  THESE  DISTRESS  SIGNALS 
THAT  WARN  OF  "ATHLETES  FOOT" 

Though  "Athlete's  Foot"  is  caused  by  the  germ — 
tinea  trichophyton — its  early  stages  manifest  them- 
selves in  several  different  ways,  usually  between 
the  toes — sometimes  by  redness,  sometimes  by  skin- 
cracks,  often  by  tiny  itching  blisters.  The  skin  may 
turn,  white,  thick  and  moist  or  it  may  develop  dry- 
ness with  little  scales.  Any  one  of  these  calls  Jor  im- 
mediate treatment!  If  the  case  arrears  aggravated 
and  does  not  readily  yield  to  Absorbine  Jr.,  consult 
your  doctor  without  delay. 


for  the  startling  reason  that  it  lurks  simply 
everywhere  —  on  the  edges  of  swimming 
pools,  on  beach  walks,  bathhouses,  Iocker- 
and  dressing-rooms — even  on  the  tile  floor 
of  your  spotless  bathroom. 

Use  Absorbine  Jr.;  it  kills 
the  germ  of  "Athlete's  Foot" 

Strange  to  say  this  germ,  mica  trichophyton, 
thrives  on  soap  and  water.  You  can't  wash 
it  away,  once  it  is  imbedded.  But  at  the 
first  sign  of  this  stubborn  infection,  rub 
Absorbine  Jr.  well  between  your  toes. 

Laboratory  tests  have  shown  that  it 
kills  tinea  trichophyton  quickly  when  it  can 
reach  the  parasite  causing  "Athlete's  Foot." 
Clinical  tests  have  also  demonstrated  its 
effectiveness. 

Look  at  your  feet  tonight 

You  may  have  the  first  symptoms*  of 
"Athlete's  Foot"  without  knowing  it  until 
you  examine  the  skin  between  your  toes. 
At  the  slightest  sign*  douse  on  Absorbine  Jr. 
Then  keep  dousing  it  on,  because  "Athlete's 
Foot"  is  a  persistent  infection  and  can 
keep  coming  back  time  after  time. 

You  can  get  Absorbine  Jr.  at  drug  stores, 
$1.25  a  bottle.  Take  it  on  every  outing — 
use  it  freely. 

For  a  free  sam- 
ple write  W.  F 
Young,  Inc.,  476 
Lyman  Street, 
Springfield,  Mass. 
In  Canada:  Ly- 
man Building, 
Montreal. 


ABSORBINE  JR. 

for  years  has  relieved  sore  muscles,  muscular 
aches,  bruises,  burns,  cuts,  sprains,  abrasions 


102 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


oOecutiu ...        / 

.  h)  n    li 


in 


rJJollars  and  CJensel 


Youthful  loveliness  is  worth  any  price  . . . 
but  search  wisely  for  your  beauty  aids. 
Be  not  led  ...  or  misled  ...  by  either 
pride  or  pursel'Millions  of  clever, 
intelligent  women  rely  on  Krank  Lemon 
Cleansing  Cream  year  after  year... 
marvelling  how  quality  so  high,  so 
exquisitely  packaged,  can  cost  so  little. 
Delightfully  fragrant,  it  liquefies  instanfly, 
penetrates  deeply,  cleanses  immaculately 
.  .  .  leaves  the  skin  smooth,  invigorated 
and  refreshed.  4 -ounce  jar,  $1.  Try  it. 


Send  25c  in  stamps  for  lovely  three- 
piece  Acquaintance  Set  and  new  beauty 
booic  "Captivating  loveliness."  Write 
Deportment   792,  Krank   Toiletries,    1885 
University  Avenue,   St.  Paul,   Minnesota. 


Vc7/7/C  (cleansing) 


Popularity 

comes  quick.7  when  yoa  learn  to 
play  a  band  instrument.  For  quick 
advancement  and  gTeater  musical 
success  start  on  an  easy-playing  Conn, 
The  choice  of  Sousa  and  the  world's 
greatest  artists.  Many  exclusive  im- 
provements at  no  added  cost! 

FREE  TRIAL.  EASY  PAYMENTS 
Write  for  details  and  free  book.  Mention 
instrument.      c    Q    CONN.  Ltd. 
928  Conn  Building       Elkhart,  Indiana 


ijuclash^icaulijicr 

Instantly  transforms  lashes  into  a 
dark,  rich  luxuriant  fringe  of  love- 
liness. Lends  sparkling  bril- 
A    liance   and   shadowy,  invit- 
yjjing  depth  to  the  eyes.  The 
■F  easiest  eyelash  beautifier  to 
apply  . . .  Perfectly  harmless. 
Lsedbythousands.Tryit.  Sol- 
id or  waterproof  Liquid  May- 
bclline.  Black  or  Brown,  75c 
at  all  toilet  goods  counters. 
MAYBELLINE  CO..  C  BICAGO 


Roughing  It  With  Clara 


[  CONTIXUED  FROM  PAGE  31 


»s 


Make  money  taking  pictures.  Photo- 
graphs in  big  demand.  Commercial 
Photography  also  pays  big  money. 
Learn  quickly  at  home  in  spare  time. 
No  experience  necessary.  Write  today 
for  new  free  book.  Opportunities  in 
Modern  Photography.  American 


desert  and  range — thirty  miles  one  way,  forty 
the  other.  The  nearest  ranch  house  is  thirty- 
five  miles  away.  But  Searchlight,  Nevada, — 
gold-mining  town — is  only  six. 

Altitude,  3,800  feet.  "Bothers  my  nose — 
gives  me  nosebleeds,"  Clara  complained  later. 
On  the  ranch  is  the  biggest  yucca  grove  in  the 
world.  Countless  cattle  somewhere  on  the 
range — out  of  sight  of  the  house.  Wild  horses 
Buzzards.  Lizards.  Jack-rabbits.  Bleached 
bones  every  few  hundred  yards — cattle,  not 
human! — and  hungry  birds  circling  overhead. 

AND  out  of  the  unpainted  wooden  shack 
stroll  Clara  and  Rex  to  bid  you  welcome 
to  their  desert  home. 

You're  startled  at  Clara!  First  thing  you 
notice  is  that  she's  far  from  slim.  Clara  never 
was  svelte.  She's  further  from  it  now  than 
ever.  "I've  put  on  sixteen  pounds,"  she  says, 
because  she  notices  you're  noticing. 

"Sure,"  adds  Earl  Simpson,  ranch  super- 
intendent, "and  she  eats  plenty." 

There's  a  very  definite  double  chin  on  Clara. 
Her  face  is  moon  round.  Her  arms  and  her 
what-Mencken-calls-sitzplatz  are  plenty.  Her 
hair  is  still  blonde — blonde  and  straight  and 
wild.  The  desert  breeze  whips  it  into  furious 
disorder;  it's  in  her  face  more  than  out  of  it. 

"I'm  sorry  I  had  it  bleached,"  she  laments. 
"It  made  it  so  dry  and  brittle  and  harsh.  I 
hope  it  comes  back  in  its  original  color." 

Her  face  is  strangely  pale,  despite  the  sun- 
burn on  her  arms.  They're  halfway  between 
tan  and  red  burn.  She  sees  you  notice  it,  and 
without  further  ado,  peels  up  her  white  jersey 
sweatshirt  and  shows  you  her  back — really 
brown,  and  all  over,  even  under  the  brassie 
straps.  She  takes  that  off  when  she  sun- 
bathes. 

But  her  face  is  pale.  "You've  got  to  be  so 
careful  of  your  complexion  here,  with  the  sun 
and  the  wind  and  the  alkali  and  the  sand,"  she 
says.  Her  lips  bear  the  mark  of  lipstick,  but 
most  of  it's  gone  soon  after  she  puts  it  on. 
She  wears  it  more  to  keep  her  lips  from  chap- 
ping than  for  looks. 

But  her  eyes  are  the  most  amazing  things. 
In  them,  there's  an  indescribable  hurt.  They're 
utterly,  supremely  world-weary.  You  may 
say  to  yourself,  when  you  read  those  sob- 
sister  stories  about  how  Clara  has  suffered, 
that  it's  ninety  per  cent  hooey.  But  look  at 
those  eyes,  and  you  begin  to  understand.  All 
the  tiredness  of  years  and  years  and  years — 
more  actual  365-day  years  than  she  has  lived — 
are  in  those  eyes. 

She's  wearing  white  jersey  sailor  pants. 
Her  shorts  show  through,  they're  that  thin. 
And  a  sweat  shirt,  same  material.  A  scarf 
around  her  neck — sometimes  over  her  hair  to 
keep  it  out  of  her  eyes.  Sturdy,  flat-heeled, 
white  buckskin  sports  shoes.  No  stockings. 
A  chain  bracelet  for  adornment. 

She's  got  no  show  clothes  up  there  with  her. 
Besides  the  outfit  she's  got  on,  she's  got  some 
riding  clothes — not  the  formal  kind,  the  real 
riding  kind.  And  some  lounging  pajamas. 
That's  all. 

REX  wears  overalls,  sweat  shirt,  boots, 
stetson  hat.  That's  what  cowboys  wear — 
none  of  these  fuzzy  chaps,  spurs,  gaudy 
shirts,  screaming  bandanas  .  .  . 

"Well,  what  do  you  think  of  the  house?" 
Rex  asks.  He's  grinning.  Swell  chap,  Rex 
Bell.  You  like  him,  instinctively.  You  watch 
him  with  Clara,  and  you  know  darned  well 
that  he's  sincerely  in  love  with  that  girl,  and 
wants  to  help  her.  That's  why  he's  got  her 
on  the  ranch,  away  from  people,  whoopee, 
bother  .  .  . 

You  admit  you're  surprised. 

"Well,  we  haven't  done  a  single  thing  to 
fix  it  up,  you  see,"  he  explains,  "because  it's 


still  in  escrow."  Then  he  takes  you  in  and 
lets  you  see  it.  If  you  were  surprised  outside, 
wait  till  you  get  in.  The  things  we,  in  the  cities, 
call  necessities  just  don't  exist  here,  where  Clara 
and  Rex  are  living. 

There's  no  bathroom.  There's  not  anything 
that  goes  in  a  bathroom!  How  do  they  bathe, 
then?     Well,  there  are  three  courses  open: 

1.— Don't  bathe. 

2. — Sponge  bath  in  a  basin. 

3. — The  shower.  The  shower  is  outside,  at 
one  corner  of  the  shack.  It's  a  canvas- 
enclosed  gadget,  the  size  of  a  little  clothes 
closet.  Into  the  top  of  it,  a  pipe  runs  from  the 
ranch  water-supply  system.  The  supply  sys- 
tem consists  of  a  twelve-mile-long  pipe  from 
a  hill  spring  which  brings  water  for  drinking, 
washing,  cooking,  and  the  cattle.  When  you 
want  a  shower,  you  peel,  step  into  the  canvas 
closet,  turn  on  the  water  from  the  pipe  and 
let  it  run  over  you.  Look  out  at  first  because 
the  pipe  is  exposed  to  the  sun,  and  the  first 
water  is  hot  enough  to  scald  you.  In  a 
minute,  it's  cold  enough  to  nearly  freeze  you. 

HQTJT  I  never  use  it,"  Clara  says.  "The 
■•-'canvas  is  loose,  and  there's  too  much 
breeze.  A  whiff,  and  I'd  look  like  September 
Morn  taking  a  sunbath.  Maybe  I'd  shock  the 
cows."     So  she  bathes  in  a  basin. 

Clara's  bedroom  is  a  kick! — 

It  occupies  one  end  of  the  shack — windows 
on  three  sides.  Furnishings:  a  cot  for  the 
nurse  who  is  there  with  Clara;  a  few  chairs; 
a  marble-topped  bureau  like  you  used  to  see 
years  and  years  ago.  A  washstand,  with  a 
basin  and  pitcher  on  top  of  it,  and  a  little 
closet  underneath. 

An  improvised  clothes  rack  on  which  hang 
the  few  things  Clara's  taken  there  with  her. 
And  Clara's  bed — this  is  the  supreme  shock  .  . . 

It's  one  of  those  very,  very  old  iron  bed- 
steads. Not  the  modern  metal  kind,  but  the 
old  kind  with  the  small-diametered  iron  rods 
twisted  into  "pretty"  shapes.  The  white 
paint  is  no  longer  white,  and  besides,  'tis 
chipping  off. 

Most  amazing  of  all  is  the  incongruity  of  the 
golden-yellow  satin  bedspread  on  it — Clara's 
one  concession  to  gorgeousness. 

Contrast  this  with  Clara's  Beverly  Hills 
bedroom — old  rose  rug,  canopied  bed,  specially 
built  bedstead  costing  $250.  Ivory  enamel 
chests  of  drawers,  chiffonier,  bench,  etc. 
Floor  lamps,  night  stands,  ottoman,  bead 
flowers,  French  dolls,  trick  telephone  stand  .  .  . 

None  of  that  on  the  ranch.  No  phone 
within  miles.  No  electric  lights — just  smelly 
kerosene  lamps. 

Clara  is  roughing  it,  and  how  rough  you 
don't  realize  until  you  see  it. 

CLARA'S  Beverly  Hills  bedroom  is  valued 
at  $2,500  for  the  furnishings.  Her  Rex  Bell 
ranch  bedroom — no  second-hand  furniture 
man  would  pay  more  than  $25  for  the  whole 
thing.  In  Beverly  Hills,  Clara  has  her  own 
bathroom.  On  the  Rex  Bell  ranch,  she  bathes 
in  the  basin — as  for  other  conveniences,  there 
aren't  any  beyond  a  corrugated-tin  chicsale 
that's  been  built  under  a  giant  yucca  tree  back 
of  the  house. 

Rex's  bedroom  is  the  porch.  The  porch 
has  been  built  since  Rex  took  the  ranch  over 
— and  Clara  helped  build  it.  She  nailed 
eighteen  of  the  boards  on  the  railing.  Now 
she  wants  to  help  paint  it.  Rex  doesn't  want 
her  to,  because  he  saw  her  after  she  helped 
paint  a  doghouse  for  her  Great  Dane  in 
Beverly  Hills.  When  it  was  done,  there  was 
more  green  paint  on  Clara  than  on  the  dog- 
house. Rex's  bed  is  just  outside  Clara's  room 
— under  one  of  her  windows. 

The  nurse  who  occupies  the  cot  in  Clara's 
room  is  Mrs.   Clara   Collins,  a  middle-aged 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


graduate  nurse  who  is  still  surprised  at  what  a 
grand  patient  Clara  is.  "When  I  took  the 
case,"  she  says,  "I  expected  temperament  and 
trouble  and  fighting.  But  she's  so  sweet  that 
I  can't  find  words  to  praise  her.  She's  a 
perfect  patient." 

There  are  rows  and  rows  of  bottles  on  Clara's 
dresser.  Medicines  and  nerve  tonics  and 
sedatives.  Clara  still  doesn't  sleep  much. 
Four  or  five  hours  a  night  is  a  good  night's 
sleep  for  her. 

"The  wind  keeps  me  awake,"  she  complains. 
It  sighs  and  whistles  and  howls  and  shakes  the 
house.  A  week  before  she  arrived,  a  twister 
took  the  side  off  the  Bell  barn. 

TJ  ESIDES  Clara  and  Rex  and  Mrs.  Collins, 
•'-'the  ranch  personnel  includes  the  Simpsons — 
Earl  Simpson,  cowboy-superintendent  of  the 
place,  and  his  wife,  Billie.  Both  are  movie 
veterans.  Mrs.  Simpson,  attractive  red- 
haired  woman,  worked  in  pictures  for  years. 
She  was  a  nurse  with  Western  companies  on 
location  trips — and  often  played  bits  and  extra 
stuff  herself. 

"Before  I  ever  knew  Clara,  I  doubled  for  her 
on  a  horse,"  she  adds. 

Earl  Simpson,  outspoken,  blunt,  doubled  for 
Tom  Mix  in  rough  riding  for  years. 

Besides  them,  there's  one  other  man  on  the 
ranch — young,  grinning  Harry  Wilder,  cow- 
boy. He's  all  put  out  because  they  asked  him 
to  milk  a  cow,  so  Clara  can  have  fresh  milk  to 
drink,  instead  of  the  canned  milk  that's  staple 
diet  on  ranches.  "Hell,  cowboys  can't  milk 
cows,"  he  protested.  So  Superintendent 
Simpson  has  to  milk  the  cow  for  Clara. 

The  Simpsons'  bedroom  is  at  the  other  end 
of  the  ranch  house  from  Clara's.  Between  are 
the  dining  room  and  living-room.  On  the 
living-room  walls  are  countless  pictures  of 
Clara,  in  every  sort  of  costume,  from  elaborate 
things  to  next-to-nothing,  like  tights,  or 
leopard-skin. 

Mrs.  Simpson  does  the  housekeeping  and 
cooking.  She's  not  used  to  the  wood-burning 
stove  yet,  because  she's  lived  most  her  life  in 
cities.  "Every  time  I  want  to  even  fry  an  egg, 
I  have  to  build  a  whole  fire,"  she  complains. 

There's  no  ice-box,  so  they  don't  have  meat 


very  often.  Nor  ice  water.  The  drinking 
water  hangs  in  an  earthen  jug  from  the  porch 
roof.  A  tin  cup  hangs  beside  it.  Everybody 
drinks  out  of  the  same  cup,  dipping  the  water 
out  of    the   jug. 

"I'd  like  to  offer  you  a  drink,"  Rex  apolo- 
gized, "but  all  we've  got  is  water.  There  ain't 
a  drop  of  likker,  or  even  beer,  on  the  ranch.  .  ." 

"I  haven't  had  a  thing  since  I  came  up  here," 
interposed  Clara. 

".  .  .  but  down  at  Searchlight,  you  can  get 
anything  you  want,"  Rex  continued.  "Search- 
light's wide  open,  likker,  beer,  gambling, 
everything."  Nevada  has  legalized  gambling. 

Not  infrequently,  Rex  and  Clara  hop  into 
their  roadster  at  night  and  drive  the  six  miles 
to  Searchlight.  They  drop  in  at  the  National 
Club  there — their  favorite  of  the  numerous 
gambling  houses — and  take  a  whirl  at  poker. 
Clara  always  pays  when  she  loses — and  doesn't 
stop  the  checks. 

"Heh,  heh,  heh,  heh,"  gurgled  a  bartender 
in  Searchlight  when  asked  about  Clara's 
poker,  "she  can't  git  away  with  nothin'  now 
since  they  legalized  gamblin'  here — she's  gotta 
pay  up  now  or  they  kin  go  collect  it  by  law 
because  it's  a  legal  debt!" 

"I  seen  her  win  sixty-seventy  dollars  the 
other  night,"  he  added.  "Besides  poker, 
Clara's  gambling  is  confined  to  nickel-in-the 
slot  machines.  She  never  wins  on  those.  No- 
body does.  But  you  can't  lose  much,  playing 
nickels." 

CLARA'S  routine  is  so  simple  that  it's  tire- 
some: "Everybody  gets  up  around  five 
o'clock  in  the  morning,"  she  says,  "but  I  don't. 
Oh,  I'm  usually  awake — I  hear  them  moving 
around — but  I  seem  to  be  able  to  catch  a  few 
hours'  sleep  around  that  time,  so  I  doze." 

She  gets  up  about  eight  or  nine,  usually. 
Breakfast  is  ready  for  her.  Then  she  rides 
Andy,  her  pet  horse,  for  an  hour  or  so.  Or 
plays  around  the  corral  with  her  pets — 

There's  Andy,  and  there's  Sheik,  a  handsome 
stallion.  And  there's  Skippy,  a  gangly  colt 
that's  hardly  old  enough  to  stand.  Simpson 
had  to  kill  its  mother  on  the  range  one  day — 
She  was  a  wild  horse.  The  colt  followed  him 
in,  and  Sheik  adopted  him.    Now  the  colt  and 


Clara's  front  garden  on 
the  Nevada  desert. 
It's  a  far  cry  from  her 
home  and  gardens  in 
Hollywood,  but  she  is 
happier  than  ever  be- 
fore in  her  life 


/, 


Far  behind  is  the  glory 
which  was  hers,  and 
which  brought  her 
nothing  but  worry,  pain 
and  sorrow.  Perhaps 
Clara  is  teaching  us  all 
a  lesson 


Tek  fits  behind 
your  front  teeth 

How  precisely  Tek  fits  even  the  sharp 
curve  behind  your  front  teeth!  Its 
Better  Bristles  trained  against  the 
danger  spots  where  stain  and  tartar 
form.  Tek  carries  no  leisure  bristles 
as  old-fashioned  brushes  do.  But  each 
well-placed,  springy  tuft  does  effi- 
cient work  at  every  stroke — cleaning 
teeth  and  vitalizing  gums.  See  and 
feel  Tek's  Better  Shape  and  Better 
Bristles — its  double  value  at  no  extra 
cost.  Sterilized,  Cellophane-sealed 
and  guaranteed,  Tek  is  a  product  of 

(iunn  ton  Jbon  n  )wi 

y    Nil     »UHi*IC(    ()     NIW    Jtltsil 


the   modern 

TDOTH  BRUSH 


io4 


Phckoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


WHOSE  EYES? 
LOOK  AGAIN! 


These  tragic  blue  eyes  belong  to  a  youthful 
RKO-Pathe  star  who  is  rapidly  gaining  fame  as 
a  dramatic  actress.  She  has  flaming  red  hair,  is 
S  ft.,  5  in.  tall,  and  weighs  120  lbs.  Name  below*. 

soothing  to 
hay  fever  eyes 

If  your  annual  hay  fever  attack  is 
accompanied  by  itching,  burn- 
ing, watering   eyes,  here's  wel- 
come news  for  you.  All  you  need 
do  to  gain  relief  is  apply  a  few 
drops  of  soothing  Murine  from 
time  to  time.  Almost  immedi- 
ately the  irritation  will  cease, 
and  before  long  your  eyes  will 
stop  watering.  This  widely- 
used  formula  of  a  veteran  eye 
specialist  costs  only  60c  at  all 
drug  and  department  stores. 

*Helen  Twelvetrees 

Soothes  . . .  Cleanses  . . .  Beautifies 


& 


/ 


Beautifully  Developed 

IS  FASHION'S  DECREE— a  full, 
rounded  form  of  feminine  grace  and 
charm.     If  you  are  Hat-chested  and 
unattractive,  investigate  the 
National    Developer.     Sold 
for  fifteen  years — praised  by 
hundreds.  Write  for  booklet, 
"BEAUTY  CURVES  DE- 
,  VELOPED,"  sent    FREE 
— no  obligation. 

THE  OLIVE  COMPANY 
Dept.  P  Manitou,  Colo* 


« 


<* 


this 
FREE  BOOK 


r   shows  the  way  to  Popularity. 

f        Pleasure,    Increased    Income. 

Send  for  your  copy  now. 

&i&cum  Inc. 

901  Parsons  Street,  KALAMAZOO,  MICH. 


Mercolized  Wax 
Keeps  Skin  Young 

Absorb  all  blemishes  and  discolorations  by  regularly  using 
pure  Mercolized  Wax.  Get  an  ounce,  and  use  as  directed. 
Fine,  almost  in  visible  particles  of  aged  skin  fleck  off,  until  all 
defects,  such  as  pimples,  liver  spots,  tan,  freckles  and  large 
pores  have  disappeared.  Skin  is  beautifully  clear,  soft  and 
velvety,  and  face  looks  years  younger.  Mercolized  Wax 
brings  out  the  hidden  beauty.  To  quickly  reduce  wrink- 
les and  other  age  lines,  use  this  face  lotion:  1  ounce  Pow- 
dered Saxolite  and  1  half  pint  witch  hazel.  At  drug  stores. 


the  stallion  are  inseparable — Sheik  fights  dogs, 
steers,  even  humans  when  they  come  too  close 
to  the  colt.  Clara  called  the  colt  Skippy  after 
the  comic  strip. 

Then  there's  Duke,  the  prize-winning  Great 
Dane  dog  Clara  brought  to  the  ranch  with  her. 
And  there's  Diablo,  a  tiny  spaniel  puppy. 
While  Rex  was  driving  her  from  Hollywood  to 
the  ranch,  they  passed  a  boy  on  the  road 
holding  a  sign  advertising  the  pup  for  sale. 
Clara  made  Rex  stop  and  buy  it.  First  she 
called    it    Satan,    but    renamed    it    Diablo. 

["  IZARDS  run  wild  on  the  ranch — even  in- 
-'-Jside  the  ranch  house.  They're  friendly  and 
what's  more,  they  eat  flies.  Clara  didn't  like 
them  at  first,  but  she  got  used  to  them. 

After  lunch,  Clara  and  Rex  usually  drive 
the  fifteen  miles  to  Nipton,  where  the  railroad 
brings  the  mail  and  the  wires  bring  telegrams. 
There's  where  they  get  fresh  vegetables  and 
do  their  shopping  for  food.  A  trip  usually  takes 
a  few  hours,  because  Clara  stops  and  demon- 
strates her  rifle  prowess.  She  and  Rex  always 
have  their  rifles  along — Clara  pops  away  at 
rabbits  and  buzzards  and  tin  cans. 

Quite  often,  she  supplies  rabbits  for  supper. 
She  wouldn't  eat  rabbits  at  first,  but  since 
she  got  to  be  good  at  shooting  them,  she  joins 
in  the  feast. 

She  and  Rex  hunt  together,  in  the  auto. 
That's  Rex's  tough  luck,  because  he  drives. 
When  they  sight  a  rabbit,  by  the  time  Rex 
stops,  Clara  has  her  rifle  aimed  and  shoots  the 
rabbit. 

The  ride  to  Nipton,  and  hunting  usually 
kill  the  ranch  afternoon  for  Clara.  Then 
comes  supper — and  usually,  by  eight  o'clock 
it's  bedtime.    And  that's  the  day  for  Clara! 

She  varies  it  with  the  occasional  visit  to 
Searchlight,  with  Rex,  for  a  whirl  at  poker. 
She  hadn't  attended  the  Searchlight  dance 
yet,  as  this  is  written,  but  plans  to  go.  Every- 
body comes  from  miles  around  and  the  old 
West  spirit  prevails.  The  dances  never  end 
until  daylight — and  with  saloons  wide  open, 
and  the  rattle  of  chips  and  the  shuffle  of  cards 


and  the  whir  of  gambling  wheels  and  machines, 
it's  like  the  wild  West  of  decades  ago. 

Searchlight  folk  don't  pay  much  attention 
to  Clara.  She  was  interesting  the  first  time 
she  visited  town,  but  after  that,  they'd  seen 
her  and  she  was  just  another  gal.  Now  and 
then,  some  of  the  miners  drive  out  to  the  Rex 
Bell  ranch  and  perch  atop  a  swinging  gate  a  few 
hundred  yards  from  the  house,  and  stare 
silently  at  Clara. 

"Let  'em — they  soon  get  tired  of  it  and  go 
away,"  is  the  Bell-Bow  reaction. 

Clara  says  she  likes  it,  up  there  at  the  ranch. 

"It's  the  first  time  in  years  that  I've  been 
able  to  be  just  myself.  No  people,  so  I  don't 
have  to  act.  When  I  feel  rotten,  I  don't 
have  to  fake  a  smile  and  act  as  though  I  feel 
good.  I  don't  have  to  be  on  dress  parade.  I 
can  do  as  I  please,  look  as  I  please. 

"I  don't  know  what's  going  to  happen  to 
me,  or  what  will  become  of  roe.  I'm  Clara 
Bow,  and  I'm  going  to  be  Clara  Bow,  no 
matter  what  they  want  me  to  be.  Nobody 
can  ever  again  make  me  do  what  I  don't 
want  to  do." 

It's  swell,  she  insists,  to  be  away  from  tele- 
phones and  people.  But  she  still  gets  her  fan 
mail — has  it  all  forwarded  to  her  there  at 
Nipton.    She  and  Rex  read  it  over  together. 

And,  of  course,  business  butts  in.  The 
telegrams  carry  all  sorts  of  business  projects. 
But  she  doesn't  bother. 

"I'm  going  to  stay  here  and  rest  for  six 
weeks  or  more,  and  I'm  ignoring  business 
until  I'm  ready."  She  turned  down  a  $20,000- 
a-week  vaudeville  offer.  "I  could  never  stand 
the  seven  shows  a  day,"  she  said.  She  has 
picture  offers  aplenty,  but  is  making  no  deals. 

"KNARRY?  "Not  for  a  long  time,  yet.  Rex 
■*• '-"-wants  to  make  a  name  for  himself  first,  in 
pictures,"    she    says. 

Then  she  smiles  at  Rex.  And  he  smiles 
back.  And  there  seems  to  be  a  big  secret 
behind   that  smile — you  rather  sense  it. 

She  is  genuinely  happy  for  the  first  time 
in  her  life. 


Why  Carole  Changed  Her  Mind 

I  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  55  ] 


must  live  as  her  work  demanded;  she  couldn't 
travel  when  he  wanted  to  travel  except  on  rare 
occasions  when  the  studio  gave  her  a  vacation. 
She  couldn't  go  to  their  favorite  dining- 
corner  at  the  Ambassador  on  nights  when  she 
had  lines  to  learn.  And  she  must  think  of  her- 
self. She  must  not  let  anyone — not  even  one 
whom  she  adored — do  her  thinking  for  her. 

AND  since  the  mountain  would  not  come  to 
Mahomet;  Mahomet  went  to  the  mountain. 
Bill  went  to  Carole. 

When  she  had  to  study  lines,  he  studied  them 
with  her.  When  she  wanted  to  stay  home  for 
an  evening  with  her  mother  and  her  two 
brothers,  he  stayed  home  with  her.  When  she 
didn't  want  to  see  him,  he  stayed  away  from 
her.  He  urged  her  career.  "I  want  you  to  be 
the  biggest  star  in  the  business.  I  will  help  you 
to  be  the  biggest." 

Until  finally  he  said  to  someone  whom  he 
loved  and  respected  (I  have  promised  not  to 
use  the  name  but  it  was  someone  close  to  both 
Bill  and  Carole),  "I — something  is  happening 
to  me.  It  is  as  though  I  were  breaking  down 
inside.  I  see  life  differently.  I  am  different. 
I  love  Carole.    I  can  think  only  of  Carole." 

Bill  Powell  had  forgotten  himself.  Love  had 
worked  its  magic. 

And  Carole?  Carole  was  spoiled,  too.  A 
little.  She  was  an  independent  little  lady  and 
yet,  paradoxically,  most  dependent.  She  and 
her  mother  had  slept  in  the  same  room,  for 
example,  for  years.  In  the  six  years  she  had 
been  in  pictures,  Carole  had  been  away  only 


three  days  from  her  mother.  Then  she  had 
preceded  her  mother  on  a  location  trip;  but 
mother  had  joined  her  later.  She  was  the  only 
sister  of  two  brothers  who  had  worshipped  and 
spoiled  her  as  is  the  way  of  grown  brothers. 

And  Carole  had  struggled.  One  picture  with 
Edmund  Lowe  at  Fox  without  any  experience 
whatever.  When  the  film  was  completed,  she 
discovered  her  back  was  to  the  camera  in  most 
shots.  She  had  not  known  about  scene  stealing 
and  that  Eddie  was  one  of  the  best  in  the 
business. 

One  year  in  the  hospital  immediately  after 
that  beginning.  She  did  not  know  whether  she 
would  be  able  to  walk  again.  A  year  when 
ambition  assumed  abnormal  proportions.  "If 
ever  I  get  out  of  here,  I'll  make  good!  I'll  not 
let  any  more  men  steal  scenes  from  me!" 

Pathe!  They  announced  her  as  a  real 
potentiality.  Then  Constance  Bennett  arrived 
on  the  lot.  People  said  they  looked  alike. 
Constance  was  a  star.  She  couldn't  have 
another  of  the  same  type  on  the  lot.  We  can't 
blame  Connie — but  we  can  sympathize  with 
Carole.  She  gritted  her  teeth,  accepted  her 
removal — waited.    Paramount  signed  her. 

HER  first  genuine  opportunity.  Her  head 
above  the  professional  waters  for  the  first 
time.  And  just  when  she  was  really  learning  ac- 
curate strokes  for  her  swimming — Bill  Powell 
stepped  in  and  asked  her  to  stop  swimming  al- 
together. No  wonder  her  backbone  tightened. 
She  learned  that  Bill  knew  everything  there 
was  to  know  about  movies;  much  that  there 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


I()5 


was  to  know  about  books — about  life.  1  I  ' 
went  to  see  one  of  her  previews  together.  Sh< 
came  out  crying.  He  said,  "Dear,  you  didn't 
want  to  do  that  picture;  you  hated  your 
director — you  hated  everything  about  it.  That 
hatred  shows  in  your  work.  You  didn't  mold 
yourself  to  circumstances  and  you  suffered  on 
the  screen  because  of  it.  Now,  when  you  don't 
like  conditions  you  must  learn  to  make  the  best 
of  them.  You  mustn't  let  your  inside  affect 
your  outside  so  the  camera  can  catch  it — " 

Carole  learned  that  one  who  loves  can  help — 
especially  if  the  advice  of  love  is  guided  by  long 
years  of  experience! 

AND  there  was  one  more  thing  which  in- 
fluenced these  two.  Carole  and  her  mother 
had  long  studied  numerology.  Now,  Bill 
studied  it,  too.  And  he  learned  that  the  vibra- 
tions for  himself  and  his  first  wife  were  all 
wrong.  Like  trying  to  mix  oil  and  water.  Why. 
according  to  numbers,  his  first  wife  should 
never  have  been  married. 

But  Carole — their  vibrations  were  perfect. 
It  was  meant  that  they  should  work  together. 
So  they  took  out  their  marriage  license  on  the 
day  auspicious  for  both;  they  were  married  on 
the  correct  day  and  sailed  on  the  best  one  in  the 
calendar.  The  day  which  means  "repeat,"  in- 
dicating they  will  go  away  together  again  and 
again. 

I  believe  they  will.  But  I  believe  in  love.  It 
is  not  the  first  time  it  has  changed  decisions 
and — people. 


What  Do  They 
Smoke? 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  7 1  ] 

Norman  Foster,  Claudette  Colbert's  spouse, 
is  another  charter  member  of  the  mooching 
lodge.  He  even  rummages,  absent-mindedly, 
in  colleagues'  desks  for  smokes.  Another  is 
Roscoe  Ates,  the  stuttering  comic.  But  he 
pays  for  his  with  laughs — he  can  always  stam- 
mer a  cigarette  out  of  his  pals — "Got  a  sma- 
hoke — gimme  a  s-s-s-s-ah  sma-hoke?"  Who 
could  resist  that? 

Speaking  of  Gary  Cooper,  he's  a  first-rate 
cigarette  smoker,  too,  and  he  adapts  his  purring 
habits  to  his  surroundings.  When  in  soup  and 
fish,  or  store-clothes  of  r.ny  kind,  he  puffs 
domestic  tailor-mades.  Set  him  astraddle  his 
little  old  pinto  hoss,  in  chaps  and  sombrero, 
and  he  can  roll  his  own — roll  'em  with  one 
hand,  in  the  dashing  old  Bill  Hart  style. 

Joel  McCrea  is  a  regular  roll-your-owner — 
also  a  one-handed  virtuoso,  and  a  match- 
snapper  with  the  other  finger-nail,  to  boot. 
He  uses  it  as  a  parlor  trick. 

And  Garbo — yes,  Greta  smokes.  She  has 
cigarettes  scattered  through  her  house,  so 
that  she  can  grab  a  puff  on  the  fly  wherever  she 
is — watering  the  cat  or  putting  out  the 
geraniums. 

AND  here's  a  gay  thought — some  of  our 
hottest  sirens  don't  smoke  at  all!  Lilyan 
Tashman  is  one,  for  two  reasons — she  doesn't 
really  care  about  it,  and  she  wants  to  be 
"different."  So  many  women  smoke  these 
days,  don't  you  know!  My  word!  Dorothy 
Christy  is  another  abstainer.  That  hi^h- 
powered  blonde  who  has  trailed  thick  clouds 
across  our  screens  when  performing. 

You  asked  about  Marie  Dressier.  Of  course 
good  old  Marie  smokes,  and  she's  not  too 
choosy.  She'll  puff  away  at  any  of  the  popular 
brands  with  equal  enjoyment.  She  keeps  all 
of  them  in  little  silver  boxes  around  her  happy 
house. 

Joan  Crawford  gets  away  with  about  a  pack 
a  day — the  first,  right  after  breakfast,  and  a 
goodnight  puff  or  two  just  before  she  pops 
into  bed.  Joan  drinks  a  lot  of  coffee — and  she 
says  she  enjoys  a  cigarette  with  a  cup  of  Java 


BECAUSE 
IT'S 


PURE 


IT  ISN'T  MAGIC  ...  it  isn't  the  price  you  pay  .  .  .  rather,  it  is  the 
purity  of  the  ingredients  that  makes  face  powder  smooth  and  lovely 
on  your  skin.  \^7  Look  to  your  powder  box!   Are  you  sure-of 

your  powder?  Perhaps  it  contains  irritants.  Perhaps  it  cakes  and 
enlarges  your  pores.  A  pure,  safe  powder  .  .  .  that's  your  surest  aid 
to  beauty!  Try  Luxor  for  a  satin-smooth  complexion,  it's  the  natural 
protector  and  safeguard  for  your  skin.  \2£?  In  the  Luxor  Labora- 
tories, we  work  and  sift  the  purest  ingredients  into  a  "powder-body" 
as  fine  as  mist  .  .  .  tint  it  and  scent  it  and  sieve  it  through  tight- 
stretched,  fine-meshed  silk.  A  chiffon-cloud  of  powder  drifts  through 
.  .  .  delicate  as  star-dust.  It  will  softly  blend  into  your  skin  and  cling 
for  hours.  It  will  bring  out  new  loveliness  of  light  and  color  .  .  .  give 
you  the  smooth,  even  background  of  beauty  for  bright  lips  and  fresh 
cheeks!  VyP  All  Luxor  Products  are  equally  pure,  and  expertly 
compounded.  They  are  not  costly  .  .  .  the  face  powder  only  50c  a  box, 
rouge  50c,  and  lipstick  50c.   Luxor,  Ltd.,  1355  W.  31st  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

TEAR  OFF  HERE,  AND  ENCLOSE  TEN  CENTS  FOR  GENEROUS  SAMPLE  OF  POWDER 


CHECK 
Flesh 


PP-9-1 
Nazne- 


Rachel- 
White_ 


Address- 


Luxor,  Ltd. 


io6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


CORNS 


Quick  Relief ! 

Pain  from  corns  stops  in  one  minute  and 
sore  toes  are  healed  overnight  when  Dr. 
Scholl's  Zino-pads  are  applied.  Their 
mild,  soothing  medica- 
tion is  the  secret  of  their 
pain-allaying,  healing 
power.  At  the  same  time 
they  remove  the  cause — 
friction  and  pressure  of 
shoes  —  by  cushioning 
and  protecting  the  sore 
spot.  No  other  remedy 
does  this  for  you. 

100%  SAFE! 

Zino-pads  are  safe,  sure. 
Using  harsh  liquids  or 
plastersoftencauses  acid 
burn.  Cutting  your  corns 
orcallouses  invites  blood- 
poisoning.  Zino-pads  are 
small, thin, dainty.  Made 
in  special  sizes  for  Corns, 
Corns  between  toes,  Cal- 
louses and  Bunions.  At 
all  drug,  shoe  and  dept. 
stores — 35c  box. 

DfSchoU's 

Zino-pads 

Put  one  on — the  " pain  is  gone! 


Would  you  BELIEVE  it? 

3  to  4  inches  reduction! 

AND  so  good  looking.  Dr.  Walter's  latest 
.  REDUCING  BRASSIERE  is  so  dainty 
that  women  often  wear  it  over  the  loveliest 
underthings.  It  reduces  most  quickly  when 
worn  next  totheskin — gives  you  that  trim, 
youthful    figure    that    the    new   styles 
demand    Send  your  bust  measurement. 
—  and  IMAGINE  — it  costs 

ONLY*  2.25 

-0   OBTAIN  Blender 

.  ankles  and  calves  try 
Dr.  Walter's  special  extra  strong  flesh- 
colored    rubber   ankle  bands.    They  will 
support   and  shape  the  ankles  while  re- 
ducing them.  Can  be  worn  un-   $o   *7C 
der  the  hose  and  fit  like  a  glove.      0*id 
Send  ankle  and  calf  measure,    per  pair 

Dr.  JEANNE  P.  H.  WALTER,  389  Fifth  Ave.,  N.  Y. 


above  all  things — except  young  Doug,  of 
course.  And  although  she  has  a  mess  of  hand- 
some cigarette  cases,  she  prefers  to  carry 
around  her  smokes  in  the  original  package. 

Norma  Shearer?  Once  in  a  while  she  would 
snatch  a  puff  in  her  dressing-room.  Now  she 
can  be  witnessed  smoking  away  at  smart 
restaurants — but  she's  a  light  smoker,  and  has 
only  taken  it  up  in  a  big  way  since  she's  been 
doing  these  sophisticated  parts. 

Ruth  Chatterton  is  one  of  our  ritzier  smok- 
ing set.  That  is,  she  smokes  a  special  brand — 
made  to  order,  and  goldarned  expensive. 
But  she  keeps  all  kinds  on  hand  for  company. 
Incidentally,  Ruthie  doesn't  smoke  while  at 
work. 

Chatterton  isn't  the  only  Hollywooder  who 
goes  for  the  fancier  sort,  by  any  means.  Some 
of  the  snooty  boys  and  girls  have  their  own 
made  up  for  smartness'  sake,  if  nothing  else. 
Iyan  Lebedeff  has  a  Russian  cigarette  made 
for  him  in  India.    It's  part  of  his  act. 

In  Lickter's  shop  you  may  see  some  of  the 
snobby  ones — large,  cork-tipped  cigarettes 
monogrammed  C.  B.  De  M.;  silver-tipped  ones 


with  the  Swanson  name  for  use  of  her  guests; 
Chaplin's  signature  on  gold-tipped  fags,  and 
the  Senior  Fairbanks'  name  on  cigarettes  with 
rich  gold  tips. 

"For  Norma  Talmadge,"  says  Lickter,  "we 
once  made  up  a  very  fancy  lot,  in  white  and 
black — striped  like  a  barber  pole,  and  gold- 
tipped."  Probably  designed  by  an  interior 
decorator. 

Gilda  Gray,  the  Great  Shaker,  has  her  own 
made,  gray,  gold- tipped  and  monogrammed, 
and  finally,  all  lighted  up.  Billie  Dove's 
chauffeur  calls  for  hers  in  thousand  lots- 
domestics  that  are  neither  initialed  nor 
specially  fixed  up.  John  Barrymore  gets  two 
kinds  there — oversized  Russian  ones  and 
standard-sized  domestics.  And  Von  Stro- 
heim  orders  his  with  black  paper  instead  of 
white.    Leave  it  to  that  Von,  the  rascal! 

Turning  to  the  cigar  smokers — yes,  I  will 
have  a  Corona-Corona,  and  many  thanks! — I 
find  that  Clive  Brook  is  a  very  finicky  feller' 
about  his  heaters.  Cigars  are  his  pets,  though 
he  has  a  great  collection  of  pipes,  or  stoves. 
Clive  hates  the  American  way  of  smoking  a 


vb-~m 

wBBk 

PHOTO  ENLARGEMENTS 

Size  16x20  inches 

Same  price  for  fall  length 
or  hunt  form,  proups.  lond- 
acapes,  pet  animals,  etc., 
or  enlargements  of  any  part 
of  group  picture.  Safe  re- 
turn of  your  own  original 
photo  guaranteed. 

SEND  NO  MONEY  £Sffi?(!£53 

and  within  a  week  you  will  receive  your  beauti- 
ful Iffe-Ilkeenlargement.  size  1Gx20  in.,  guaran- 
teed fadeless.  Pay  postman  98c  plus  postage— 
or  send  91.00  with  order  and  we  pay  postage. 

Special  Free  Offer  Em"n?  « 

will  send  FREE  a  hanrt-tinted  miniature  reproduction  of  photo  I 
Toae  advantage  now  of  thla  amazing  otter  and  seed  your  photo  today. 


98 


UNITED  PORTRAIT  COMPANY 
900  W.  Lake  St.,  Dept.  L-131  Chicago,  III. 


That  Jordan  girl  must  love  her  work!  She  even  has  directors,  lights  and 
grinding  cameramen  silhouetted  on  her  lounging  pyjamas !  Maybe  it's  just 
so  she  won't  forget  to  go  to  the  studios.  Anyway,  the  black  silhouettes  on 
the  white  silk  are  very  effective — and  Dorothy  looks  charming  in  them 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


cigar,  clamping  it  between  the  teeth  till  the  | 
stub  looks  like  a  mess  of  spinach.    Clive  holds 
his  with  his  lips  only,  and  exactly  in  the  center 
of  his  mouth.     Nice  neat  smoking,  that. 

Clive's  cigarros  cost  him  fifty  cents — four 
bits  to  you! — apiece,  but  he  uses  cigarettes  in 
the  brief  pauses  between  scenes. 

If  you  think  that  George  Bancroft  masti- 
cates big  black  cigars,  you're  wrong.  Cigarettes 
are  his  dish. 

SPEAKING  of  cigars,  little  Georgie  Stone  has 
had  a  tough  flirtation  with  Our  Lady  Nicotine. 

A  very  gentle  cigarette  smoker,  Director 
Mervyn  LeKoy  insisted  that  Georgie  smoke 
cigars  for  his  hard-boiled  part  in  "Five  Star 
Final."  They  tried  him  on  the  ordinary 
brands,  and  poor  Stone  went  green,  purple  and 
pink  and  had  to  take  time  until  the  studio 
stopped  jumping  over  the  director.  Then  they 
had  a  very  mild  brand  made  especially  for 
Georgie — and  the  bill  was  $100.  Good  old 
realism — thy  name  is  Hollywood! 

At  the  other  extreme  is  Ernst  Lubitsch,  who 
is  commonly  supposed  to  sleep  with  a  cigar 
in  his  mouth.  He's  a  chewer — a  few  minutes 
after  he's  lighted  up  the  end  of  his  cigar  is  a 
pulp.  And  he  smokes  'em  way  down  to  the 
last  long  puff.  When  talkies  lisped  in,  and 
stringent  anti-smoking  rules  were  enforced, 
how  Ernst  suffered!  He  sneaked  out  and 
lighted  a  fresh  perfecto  between  each  scene. 
He  obeyed  orders,  but  I'll  bet  the  rule  cost  the 
company  more  money  in  time  than  he  spent 
on  cigars. 

Lubitsch  wasn't  the  only  man  in  agony.  All 
Hollywood  died  for  a  smoke.  Now,  though 
the  signs  are  still  up,  the  no-smoking  rule  isn't 
so  viciously  enforced.  Pails  of  wet  sand  are 
placed  about  the  stages  to  receive  fuming 
stubs.  Producers  have  found  it's  cheaper  to 
pay  higher  insurance  premiums  than  stand  for 
the  loss  of  time  while  players  and  studio  work- 
ers took  time  off  to  grab  a  few  puffs  outside 
the  fire  door! 

Clara  Bow  is  just  a  good  day-in,  day-out 
smoker — nothing  sensational.  And  she  usually 
uses  a  holder.  A  lot  of  the  folks  do.  Those 
yellow  stains  on  the  fingers  don't  look  pretty 
to  the  camera!  Imagine — Bert  Wheeler  is  a 
holder-user,  and  so  is  the  vampish  Rita 
LaRoy.  So  is  Wynne  Gibson,  who  is  partial 
to  smoking  while  driving  her  car. 

Chevalier  likes  both  cigars  and  cigarettes, 
while  Ricardo  Cortez  is  a  three-way  smoker,  or 
triple-threat  man  —  cigarettes,  cigars,  and 
pipes.  Each  has  its  place  with  Ric — cigarettes 
on  the  set,  cigars  when  out  at  leisure,  pipes  by 
the  home   fireside. 

Regis  Toomey  is  a  pipe-hound.  He  and 
Sam  Mintz,  the  Paramount  writer  who  did 
such  a  swell  job  on  "Skippy,"  share  the 
enthusiasm,  and  when  you  see  those  boys  in  a 
huddle  you  can  bet  your  best  meerschaum 
they're   talking  pipes. 

Carole,  Mrs.  Powell,  Lombard  never  carries 
cigarettes  to  work,  but  smokes  after  meals. 
Sylvia  Sidney  is  a  great  "natural"  smoker — 
she  doesn't  show  a  bit  of  the  affectation  that 
so  often  makes  women's  smoking  look  so  all- 
fired  silly. 

*V\  THAT'S  that  you  say?  Jackie  Coogan? 
Y*  Dearie  me,  no!  Unless,  of  course,  the  six- 
teen-year-old has  done  a  little  experimenting 
with  corn-silk  back  of  the  family  barn. 

Richard  Dix  is  another  of  the  nervous  type — 
he  takes  smokes  fast  and  furiously,  fuming  and 
flaming  away  like  a  locomotive  on  the  up- 
grade. Hugh  Herbert,  on  the  other  hand,  is 
one  of  the  clowns — likes  to  swallow  lighted 
cigarettes,  puff  them  wrong-end-to,  and  make 
the  smoke  come  out  of  his  eyes. 

And  here  is  a  laugh — Robert  Woolsey, 
never  seen  on  the  screen  without  a  two-foot 
cigar,  smokes  only  cigarettes  off  the  screen, 
and  those  very  lightly.    There's  no  justice. 

And  oh,  yes — Fredric  March. 

Well — er — it  seems  that  Freddie  goes  for 
both   rich   brown   cigars   and   cigarettes. 

Oop!  Only  off  the  set,  of  course!  Ah  there, 
Fred!    You  started  all  this. 


DOROTHY      MACKA1LL 

is  one  of  the  many  users  of  Sem-pray 
who  look  younger  today  than  they  did 
10  years  ago.  She  says:  "Sem-pray 
preserves  the  velvety  softness  and  the 
clean   color  of   youth." 


Dorothy  Mackaill  and  Sidney 
Blackmer  in  "Strictly  Modern." 
Miss  Mackaill  has  a  flawless,  un- 
lined   skin.     She   uses   Sem-pray. 


NEW  SKIN  BEAUTY 

OVERNIGHT! 

WRINKLES. AGE  LINES  GO 

LOOKIOYEARS  YOUNGER 

c?4mazing  Beauty  Discovery 

Famous  100-Year  Old  Beauty  Secret  Rediscovered.  Erases  Age- 
Lines,  Wrinkles  Like  Magic.  Softens  Skin  Right  Away.  Gives  It 
Velvety  Texture.     Reduces  Large  Pores.    Ends  Pimples,  Blackheads. 

No  excuse  for  age-lines  or  wrinkles,  red, 
rough  skin,  large  pores  or  blemishes. 

The  amazing  discovery,  new  Sem-pray 
Crcme,  makes  you  look  10  years  younger, 
many  times  prettier.  New  beauty  OVER- 
NIGHT.   Read  free  offer.    Send  today. 

Beauty  Experts  Astounded 


Even  beauty  experts  are  astounded  to  see  Sem- 
pray  accomplish  results  OVERNIGHT  that  or- 
dinarily  would   require  many  elaborate  treatments. 

Sem-pray  erases  wrinkles  and  age-lines  like 
magic.  Cleanses,  clears  and  softens  the  skin  as 
nothing  else  ever  has.  Gives  it  radiant,  natural 
girlish  color  and  velvety  soft  texture.  Ends  pim- 
ples, blackheads,  redness,  roughness.    Reduces  large 


pores.  Takes  shine  from  oily  skin.  Freshens  dry 
skin.  Tones  skin  tissues  without  growing  hair. 
Firms  sagging  muscles.  Takes  years  from  your 
age.     New   beauty    overnight. 

Years  Vanish.     New  Beauty  at  Once 

Sem-pray  is  different  and  far  superior  to  any- 
thing you  ever  used.  A  famous  old  beauty  secret 
recently  rediscovered.  Contains  rare  Eastern  beau- 
tifiers  and  youthifiers  not  used  in  ordinary  creams. 

These  wonderful  beautifiers  are  compressed  into 
dainty  rose-pink,  almond-scented  cake.  In  new 
push-up  container,  used  easily  as  lipstick,  with- 
out touching  with  fingers.  Fits  snugly  in  hand- 
bag. 3  minutes  a  day  is  enough  to  take  years 
away.  But  you  can  carry  Sem-pray  with  you  and 
give  yourself  many  beauty  treatments  a  day.  All 
stores  60c  or  mail  coupon  for  free  trial. 


Movie  Stars  and  Fashionable  Women  KEEP 

Young  or  GET  Young  New,  Quick  Way 


Many  movie  stars  look  as  young  today  as  they 
did  10  years  ago,  and  some  look  even  younger  than 
they  did,  because  lines  and  wrinkles 
have  departed.  Stars  whose  unfad- 
ing youth,  after  many  years  on  the 
screen  have  caused  you  to  marvel, 
credit  their  new  youth  and  beauty 
to  Sem-pray. 

Marie  Prevost  says:  "Sem-pray 
keeps  the  skin  voung,  erases  lines." 
I.ila  Lee  says:  "There's  nothing  like 
Sem-pray  to  maintain  charm.'' 
Phyllis  Haver  says:  "Sem-pray 
gives  the  skin  delicate  texture,  maintains  youthful 
looks." 

Pauline  Starke.  Agnes  Ayres,  Anna  Q.  Nilsson, 
Viola  Dana,  Barbara  Kent  and  other  Hollywood 
beauties  all  use  and  recommend  Sem-pray  to  main- 


FREE 

Extra  Gifts  If  You 
Send  Quick 


tain,  or  regain,  youthful  looks,  unlined,  lovely  skin. 
Fashionable  women  who  can  afford  to  spend 
fortunes  to  regain  lost  youth  and 
beauty,  use  Sem-pray  because  they 
find  it  better  than  elaborate  beauty 
treatments. 

Sem-pray  takes  the  place  of  van- 
ishing, cleansing  and  beauty  creams, 
lotions,  skin  tonics  and  facial  packs. 
Guaranteed  safe,  pure.  A  wonder- 
ful foundation  cream  too.  Blends 
rouge  and  powder  perfectly;  pre- 
vents caking  and  spottiness. 
Mail  above  coupon  at  once  for  "day  package  of 
Sem-pray  Creme.  Act  quick  and  we  will  include 
introductory  packages  of  Sem  -pray  Rouge  and 
Sem-pray  Face  Powder  FREE.  I'se  Sem-pray 
for  new  beauty  overnight.     Look  10  years  younger. 


Get  Sem-pray  Today.     New  Beauty  Tomorrow 


io8 


Phoioplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


He  didn't 

count  sheep 

jumping  a 

fence 


NO  SIR!  The  guest  we  have 
in  mind  had  his  own  cure 
for  insomnia!  He  asked  us  to 
furnish  a  thermos  bottle  full 
of  hot  milk,  so  that  he  could 
have  it  by  his  bed,  in  case  he 
woke  up  at  night,  take  a  drink 
. . .  and  then  get  to  sleep  again! 
Thermos  bottles  and  hot  milk 
aren't  part  of  the  standard 
equipment  of  United  Hotels... 
but  we  do  have  large,  airy 
high-ceiling  rooms,  with  a 
feeling  of  pleasant  freedom . . . 
and  the  beds  . . .  well,  if  you've 
ever  slept  in  one  of  our  hotels 
you  know  how  good  they  are! 
So  there's  very  rarely  occasion 
for  insomnia  at  any  of  the  25 
United  Hotels  listed  below. 


Extra  service  at  these  2$ 
UNITED  HOTELS 

NEW  YORK  city's  only  United . .  .  .The  Roosevelt 

PHILADELPHIA,  PA The  Benjamin  Franklin 

Seattle,  wash The  Olympic 

Worcester,  mass The  Bancroft 

Newark,  N.  J The  Robert  Treat 

PATERSON,  N.  J The  Alexander  Hamilton 

Trenton,  N.  J The  Stacy-Trent 

HARRISBURG,  PA The  Penn-Harris 

Albany,  N.  Y The  Ten  Eyck 

SYRACUSE,  N.  Y The  Onondaga 

Rochester,  N.  Y The  Seneca 

Niagara  falls,  N.  Y The  Niagara 

ERIE,  PA The  Lawrence 

akron,  OHIO The  Portage 

FLINT,  MICH The  Durant 

KANSAS  CITY,  MO The  President 

TUCSON,  ARIZ El  Conquistador 

SAN  Francisco,  cal The  St.  Francis 

SHREVEPORT,  LA The  Washington-Youree 

NEW  Orleans,  LA The  Roosevelt 

NEW  ORLEANS,  LA The  Bienville 

TORONTO,  ONT The  King  Edward 

NIAGARA  FALLS,  ONT The  Clifton 

Windsor,  ont The  Prince  Edward 

Kingston,  JAMAICA,  B. w.  I.  .The  Constant  Spring 

U&%J> 


Short  Subjects 
of  the  Month 


Bing  Crosby's  crooning  is  getting  to  be  infectious  and  his 
popularity  is  mounting  steadily.  The  series  of  shorts  he 
is  making  for  Educational  not  only  get  over  the  Crosby 
voice,  but  the  Crosby  personality,  which  seems  to  be  quite 
sumpin'.    His  latest  release  is  reviewed  below 


I  SURRENDER,  DEAR 

Sennett-Edncational 
Bing  Crosby,  crooning  Bing  Crosbyishly, 
makes  this  highly  entertaining.  Bing's  work, 
plus  the  usual  array  of  good  Sennett  gags  and 
a  not-too-involved  romantic  plot,  provide  a 
half  hour's  fun. 

FOREHAND,  BACKHAND  AND 
SERVICE 

M-G-M 
Bill  Tilden,  world's  professional  tennis  cham- 
pion, shows  you  basic  strokes  in  such  detail 
you  feel  prepared  to  win  cups  yourself.  Actual 
match  scenes  with  Tilden  playing  brilliantly 
help  make  this  a  humdinger. 

THE  HOUSE  DICK 
Radio 
Satirizing  dumbbell  hotel  detectives,  with 
Jimmy  Savo  playing  the  boob  sleuth,  this  is 
sure  for  a  lot  of  laughs.  The  prime  laugh 
comes  when  his  own  stupidity  leads  Savo  into 
uncovering  a  band  of  jewel  thieves. 

FAST  AND  FURIOUS 
Universal 
This  is  one  of  those  anatomical  sequences 
wherein  everybody  gets  hit,  stabbed,  burned 
or  falls — all  in  the  same  place.  Daphne 
Pollard,  being  exceptionally  equipped  for  it, 
takes  top  honors.  If  you  enjoy  rough-and- 
tumble  comedy,  this'll  delight  you. 

MICKEY'S  DIPLOMACY 
Darmour 
Not  so  good  as  others  of  the  "Mickey 
Himself"  comedies.  The  principal  trouble  is 
that  the  story  just  isn't.  It's  a  lot  of  gags 
and  action  aimlessly  thrown  together,  with 
not  enough  coherence  to  bind  the  few  laughs 
into  a  good  film. 


THE  GRAND  PARADE 

Radio  Pictures 
Roscoe  Ates  is  a  window  washer.  He  drops 
a  water  bucket  on  a  lady's  head.  She  wants 
revenge;  he  dodges  her  in  various  offices  in 
a  professional  building.  You'll  scream  with 
laughter  and  you'll  wish  there  were  more 
comedies  like  this. 

THE  GOOFY  GOAT 

Eshbough-W  eingart 
Here's  the  first  of  a  new  company's  series  of 
comic  cartoons  in  color.  The  central  character, 
apparently  out  after  some  of  Mickey  Mouse's 
pickings,  is  (or  have  you  guessed  it?)  a  goofy 
goat.    In  this,  he's  good.    Let's  see  more. 

ONE  GOOD  TURN 

Hal  Roach 
Lunatics  Laurel  and  Hardy  go  quite  cuckoo 
again,  and  isn't  that  swell?  This  time,  the}' 
inadvertently  get  into  a  dramatic  rehearsal 
and  mistake  it  for  the  real  thing.  Need  you 
be  told  more? 

THE   TRAIL  OF  THE  SWORD- 
FISH 

Sennett-Educational 
Here's  another  of  Mack  Sennett's  deep  sea 
fishing  films.  Sennett's  an  ardent  fisherman 
and  has  spent  days  shooting  water-thrills.  He 
retails  them  to  you  in  a  series  of  six,  of  which 
this  is  one.  The  dialogue  accompanying  the 
picture  is  great. 

FALSE  ROOMERS 
Radio 
Clark  and  McCullough,  quite  absurd,  hire 
a  room  from  a  Scotchman.  Other  roomers 
include  a  buxom  blonde  and  her  jealous  hus- 
band. The  blonde  gets  into  the  wrong  bath- 
room.    Will  you  laugh,  or  will  you? 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


109 


The   Audience   Speaks   Its    Mind 


Photoplay  Education 

My  parents  are  uneducated  farm  tenants. 
My  father  didn't  believe  in  school  beyond  the 
ability  to  read,  write,  and  cipher.  With  these 
handicaps  and,  of  course,  no  money  at  all  I 
tackled  the  job  of  obtaining  an  education.  I 
asked  questions,  read,  and,  after  I  left  my 
backwoods  home,  attended  the  movies  as 
means  of  obtaining  knowledge  and  poise.  I 
was  extremely  timid  because  of  my  outland 
upbringing,  you  see. 

From  personal  experience  I  can  say  that  the 
movies  are  a  great  educational  force  today. 
They  have  given  me  a  basic  knowledge  of  cus- 
toms, manners,  and  styles  which  I  had  no 
other  way  of  obtaining.  And,  in  the  giving, 
they  furnished  good  entertainment.  They  are 
helping  me  to  develop  into  a  well-rounded  per- 
sonality. 

C.  L.  G., 
Birmingham,  Ala. 

As  a  country  girl,  suddenly  transplanted  to 
a  fairly  large  town,  I  found  myself  totally  un- 
prepared to  meet  the  new  problems  that  daily 
confronted  me.  But  at  the  neighborhood  movie 
house  I  was  able  to  study  the  clothes  worn  by 
the  stars  and  thereby  improve  the  style  of  my 
own.  My  apartment,  once  an  absurd  reminder 
of  bygone  frills  and  gadgets,  now  is  the  most 
modern  in  our  neighborhood. 

My  family  is  very  proud  of  my  results,  and 
so  am  I.  How  I  wish  I  could  find  some  means 
to  express  my  appreciation  to  the  designers  of 


AFTER 

YOUR  EVERY 


SMOKE... 


[CONTINUED  FROM  page  1.3  ] 

film  clothes  and  house  interiors  for  the  help 
they  have  given  me.     AuiI,RTA  Rou  ,  ,  , 

Lexington,  Ky. 

Mary  Brian 

Our  whole  family  just  adore  Mary  Brian 
and  my  husband  wouldn't  miss  one  of  her  pic- 
tures on  a  bet.  She  is  most  natural  and  sweet- 
est in  those  Southern  debutante  roles  or  as  a 
small  town  sweetheart.  She  just  can't  be  beat 
in  parts  like  that.  Surely  there  are  many  more 
such  roles  for  her!  The  public  isn't  through 
seeing  sweet  love  stories,  even  if  there  is  a 
"gang  war"  on!  A  Loyal  Fax, 

Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

The  Millionaire 

I  am  seldom  moved  to  do  my  bouquets  up  in 
a  letter,  but  the  pleasure  I  had  in  seeing  "The 
Millionaire"  must  be  expressed.  It  is  as  clean 
as  the  baby's  bottle.  It  has  all  the  ingredients 
of  a  good  play — delicate  touches  of  pathos, 
subtle,  gentle  humor  and  tense  situations. 

There  are  no  gangsters,  guns  or  murders. 
No  storms,  floods  or  wrecks.  No  speakeasies, 
wild  parties  or  chorus  girls.  Yet  there  is  not 
a  slow,  uninteresting  moment  in  the  whole 
picture.  Mr.  Arliss  has  proved  to  us  again 
that  it  can  be  done.  See  it  for  yourself,  you 
satiated  movie  fans! 

Mr.  Arliss  is  one  "foreign"  actor  for  whom  I 
have  a  glad  hand.  Mary  Keith, 

Clarksville,  Tenn. 


Movies  and  Romance 

My  husband  cannot  afford  an  automobile 
and,  as  a  result,  we  are  denied  much  of  the  en- 
joyment that  ownership  of  a  car  affords.  With 
financial  worries  and  lack  of  outdoor  life,  we 
have  discovered  that  "Jack  can  become  a  dull 
husband  and  Jill  a  bored  wife." 

To  preserve  romance  in  our  lives  and  to  es- 
cape from  dull  evenings  at  home,  we  find  ad- 
venture in  the  darkness  of  the  movie  theater. 
We  forget  about  the  note  coming  due  and  the 
dazzling  new  car  that  mocks  us  every  time  we 
pass  the  show  window.  And  we  walk  home 
with  renewed  love  and  courage,  anticipating 
the  next  of  the  "best  pictures  of  the  month." 
Mrs.  M.  O.  Wilbuen, 
Montgomery,  Ala. 

Lurid  Advertisements 

Is  there  any  particular  reason  why  the  most 
suggestive  scene  in  the  entire  picture  should 
be  selected  for  advertising  purposes?  My  small 
son  stands  before  the  posters,  saying  disgust- 
edly: "It's  just  a  lot  of  huggin'  and  kissin'. 
Let's  stay  home  and  read  stories." 

And  nine  times  out  of  ten  the  picture  is  all 
right  and  tells  a  splendid  story.  The  posters, 
however,  have  given  such  a  bad  impression 
that  the  highly  moral  folks  stay  away  and  those 
looking  for  lewdness  are  disappointed. 

Box-office,  I  suppose,  but  is  it  really  neces- 

sary?  Jessie  Kenyon, 

Nice,  Calif. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  111  ] 


£       I 


Beech-Nut  Gum 


MAKES  THE   NEXT  SMOKE  TASTE   BETTER 


^ 


When  you  pause  to  bask  in  the  summer  sunshine  and  enjoy  a  lazy  smoke  —  make 
the  stolen  moments  more  enjoyable  with  the  cool  refreshment  of  Beech-Nut  Gum. 
Its  zestful  flavor  stimulates  your  taste  sense  and  makes  the  next  smoke  taste  like 
the  first  one  of  the  day  —  each  smoke  a  fresh  experience.  Motorists  will  find 
BEECH-NUT  GUM  especially  enjoyable — it  keeps  the  mouth  moist  and  cool  while 
driving.  Remember  always  there  is  no  other  gum  quite  so  flavorful  as  Beech-Nut. 

Made  by  the  Beech-Nut    Packing  Company  —  Also   Makers  of  Beech-Nut   Fruit   Drops   and   Mints 


Peppermint, 
Wintergreen  and 
Spea  rm  hit  fla  i  o  rs. 


I  IO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


creen    Memories    rrom    Photoplay 


Mi 


15  Years  Ago 


Marian  Marsh,  Warner  Bros,  and  First 

National  star,  one  of  the  Fairest  of  the 

Fair — a  tremendous  hit  as  John  Barry- 

more's  leading  lady  in  "Svengali". 

Just  as  Hollywood's  fairest  women 

win  the  applause  of  millions,  you  too  can  attract 

admiration  with  the  charm  and  fragrance  of 

FAIR- EST 

"7"ne  Natural  Cosmetics" 

CREATED  in  HOLLYWOOD  for  the 
FAIREST  of  the  FAIR 

Complete  set— Rouge. . .  Face  Powder 
.  .  .  Perfume . . .  Dusting  Powder .  .  . 
Bath  Salts— at  Your  Dealer,  $2.50 


ARY  PICKFORD 

reached  the  first  great 
crisis  of  her  career.  Her 
contract  with  Famous 
Players  expired  and  she 
was  deluged  with  offers, 
some  of  them  for  $10,000 
a  week.  Mary  took  a  long 
time  to  consider,  and  lost 
$50,000  by  remaining  idle. 
Finally,  fearful  lest  the 
quality  of  her  pictures  be  lowered,  she  re- 
signed with  Famous  Players,  and  we  hailed  it 
as  the  most  important  news  of  the  month.  It  was. 
We  introduced  a  new  cowboy  actor,  Tom 
Mix,  appearing  in  Selig  "multiple  reel"  dramas. 
His  leading  lady  was  Victoria  Forde. 

Polly  Moran,  new  Keystone  comic,  was 
interviewed.  "There  is  something  of  the  wide- 
ness  of  the  desert  in  her  eyes,"  wrote  our  inter- 
viewer, "and  of  the  wastes'  inscrutable  calm." 
Also:  "She  is  immensely  popular  with  her 
parents,  who  live  with  her."     Tee,hee! 

Reviewing  the  year's  pictures,  Julian  John- 
son observed: 

That  the  distinguished  performances  of  the 
year  were  Wilfred  Lucas'  characterization  in 


"Acquitted,"  and  Mabel  Normand's  bulwark- 
ing of  all  the  Keystone  comedies  with  her  own 
slender  shoulders; 

That  Charlie  Chaplin  can  summon  the  tear 
as  deftly  as  he  can  lure  the  smile; 

That  the  silent  stage  has  never  had  so  quick, 
big  and  wholesome  a  triumph  as  that  of 
Douglas  Fairbanks; 

That  Theodore  Roberts  earns  a  place  as 
one  of  the  really  impressive  performers  of  the 
year;  and 

That,  in  the  bright  list  of  the  real  stars  the 
year  has  created,  Bessie  Love  stands  first. 

Pictures  in  the  gallery  included  Dorothy 
Kelly,  Earle  Foxe,  Beverly  Bayne,  Sidney 
Ainsworth,  Norma  Nichols,  Bruce  McRae, 
John  Emerson,  Mary  Fuller,  and  Mary 
Charleson. 

Cal  York  items:  When  Bobbie  Harron  and 
Jack  Pickford  want  to  be  devilish,  they  sneak 
over  to  Baron  Long's  Vernon  Country  Club 
and  drink  lemonade  after  lemonade  .  .  .  Otis 
Skinner  is  putting  the  finishing  touches  to 
"Kismet"  .  .  .  Eugene  O'Brien,  a  handsome 
newcomer,  has  been  signed  by  Essanay  .  .  . 
William  Farnum  will  henceforth  play  gentler 
parts.    He  is  through  with  "scrapping"  roles. 


10  Years  Ago 


THE  FAIREST   CO. 
HOLLYWOOD 

501  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York 


BLONDES  win 
wedding  veils 

LUCKY  blondes — honeymoon  bound.  For  blonde 
'  hair  has  an  irresistible  allure.  That's  why 
thousands  of  blondes  count  on  Blondex  to  pre- 
serve this  priceless  heritage.  This  special  blonde 
hair  shampoo  keeps  hair  unforgettably  radiant 
—  bright,  fluffy,  alluring!  Prevents  darkening — 
safely  brings  back  sunny,  golden  glint  to  dull, 
faded  light  hair.  Notadye.  No  injurious  chem- 
icals. Kind  to  the  scalp.  Blondex  will  bring  out 
the  natural  gleaming  gold  now  hidden  in  your 
hair.     At  all  good  drug  and  department  stores. 


Fatigued  ?        Worried  ? 

indigestion,    cold 

led   bv  NERVE 

EXHAUSTION.      Druat,    toniee     and     medtcinet     cannot     help     weak,     tick 
nervetl      Learn     how     to     regain     Vigor.     Calmneaa     and     Self     Confidence. 

Send   25c  for  this    arnaitnf   book. 
RICHARD  BLACKSTONE.  N   229   Flatlron    Bldg..  NEW  YORK 


FIRST  of  the  Immor- 
tals" is  what  we  called 
George  Loane  Tucker, 
maker  of  "The  Miracle 
Man,"  which  brought 
Betty  Compson,  Lon 
Chaney  and  Thomas 
Meighan  to  the  front.  He 
had  just  died.  "The  art 
of  the  screen  remains 
richer  and  finer  for  his 
gifts,"    was   our    tribute. 

A  page  of  pictures  showed  scenes  from  Doug 
Fairbanks'  most  ambitious  effort  to  date,  "The 
Three  Musketeers."  Doug  raised  his  first 
moustache  for  that  one.  King  Louis  XIII  of 
France  was  played  by  a  fellow  named  Adolphe 
Menjou. 

Buster  Keaton  writing  in  Photoplay  of  his 
marriage  to  Natalie  Talmadge  said:  "I  have 
learned  in  my  short  married  life  that  there  are 
two  sides  to  every  argument — your  wife's  and 
her  mother's." 

"Good-bye  Bathing  Girl"  headed  an  article 
telling  of  Phyllis  Haver's  ascent  from  bathing 
beauty  roles  to  comedy  drama. 


Two  open  letters — wistful  little  jiggers,  too — 
urged  Vivian  Martin  to  forget  the  stage  and  come 
back  to  the  screen;  and  implored  Pauline  Starke, 
champion  weeper  of  the  celluloid,  to  cheer  up. 

Rubye  De  Remer  told:  "How  I  Keep  in 
Condition." 

Pictures  in  the  gallery  included  Nita  Naldi, 
James  Kirkwood,  Ruth  Roland,  Ralph 
Graves,  Lucy  Fox,  Kathleen  Ardelle  and  Elsie 
Ferguson. 

Pictures  reviewed  were  "The  Conquering 
Power,"  with  Rudolph  Valentino  and  Alice 
Terry;  "The  Affairs  of  Anatol,"  with  Wally 
Reid,  Bebe  Daniels,  Gloria  Swanson,  Wanda 
Hawley,  Agnes  Ayres  and  Theodore  Roberts; 
"Experience,"  with  Richard  Barthelmess  and 
Marjorie  Daw;  "The  Mother  Heart,"  with 
Shirley  Mason. 

Cal  York  items:  Betty  Blythe  has  bobbed 
her  hair  .  .  .  Jack  Holt  has  been  made  a  star 
by  Famous  Players  .  .  .  Thursday  night  will 
be  Photoplayers'  night  at  Delmonico's.  At 
the  first  one,  Wally  Reid  awarded  a  silver  cup 
to"  the  best  fox-trotters  .  .  .  Bert  Lytell  says 
Johnny  Walker's  name  alone  is  enough  to  make 
him  popular  in  these  prohibition  times. 


5  Years  Ago 


r^HARLTE   CHAPLIN 

jfl       H  ^—'satisfying  his  life-long 

JM        W^m  ambition   to  play  drama, 

•JH^^.  r^r  announced   he   was  going 

iP?    W  *  to  produce  his  own  ver- 

M  sion  of  the  life  of  Napoleon , 

with  himself  as  the  Little 
Corporal  and  Raquel  Mel- 
ler,  Spanish  pantomimist 
and  dancer,  as  Josephine. 
Cal  York  quoted  Chap- 
lin as  saying  he  would  make  the  picture  within 
the  year. 

The  picture  never  came  off,  but  the  an- 
nouncement gave  some  impetus  to  Meller's 
Hollywood  recital,  which  was  the  month's 
doggiest  event  and  cost  $25  a  pair  for  tickets. 
In  our  account  of  it  we  reported  that  Tom 
Mix,  present  in  full  evening  dress,  couldn't 
understand  Senorita  Meller's  Spanish  songs. 
"It's  a  different  kind  than  they  speak  down 
along  the  Rio  Grande,"  said  Tom. 

Bebe  Daniels,  to  stop  rumors  that  she  was  go- 
ing to  become  Mrs.  Jack  Pickford,  announced 
her  engagement  to  Charlie  Paddock,  track  star. 
"What  Happened   to   Pauline   Frederick?" 
we  asked  in  an  article  telling  of  the  ups  and 


downs  of  her  startling  career.  She  was 
attempting  a  screen  comeback. 

A  clever  little  girl,  Janet  Gaynor,  had  just 
won  a  contract  with  Fox  on  the  strength  of 
her  work  in  "The  Johnstown  Flood."  She 
announced  her  engagement  to  Herbert  Moul- 
ton,  a  Los  Angeles  journalist. 

Pictures  in  the  gallery  included  Bebe 
Daniels,  Ken  Maynard,  Milton  Sills,  Mary 
Brian,  Helene  Chadwick,  William  Haines  and 
Ricardo  Cortez. 

Pictures  reviewed  were  "The  Road  to  Man- 
dalay,"  with  Lon  Chaney;  "Men  of  Steel," 
with  Milton  Sills,  May  Allison  and  Doris 
Kenyon;  "Mantrap,"  with  Clara  Bow  and 
Percy  Marmont;  "Variety,"  a  German  im- 
portation with  Emil  Jannings;  and  "Fig 
Leaves,"   with   Olive   Borden. 

Cal  York  items:  Josef  Von  Sternberg, 
director  of  "The  Salvation  Hunters,"  was 
married  recently  to  Riza  Royce  .  .  .  William 
Fox  gave  a  big  dinner  for  F.  W.  Murnau, 
director  of  "The  Last  Laugh"  .  .  .  Elliott 
Dexter  is  back  in  Hollywood  .  .  .  John  Gil- 
bert and  Greta  Garbo  will  make  "Flesh  and 
the  Devil"  .  .  .  Cecil  DeMille  is  all  set  to 
go  on  his  biggest  production,  "King  of  Kings." 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


I  I  I 


Brickbats&  Bouquets 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  109  ] 

A  missionary,  working  in  South  Africa,  says 
that  movies  are  his  "stock-in-trade."  There 
are  one  hundred  and  eighty  thousand  native 
boys  working  in  the  gold  mines  where  he  lives, 
and  he  directs  twenty  movie  projecting  ma- 
chines, for  which  he  has  the  choice  of  the 
world's  best  films. 

He  puts  on  recreational  and  educational 
programs  to  amuse,  educate  and  stimulate 
these  hard-working  boys.  He  says  the  come- 
dies make  them  roar  and  that  movies  have 
done  what  nothing  else  could  do;  they  have 
stopped  rioting,  developed  a  spirit  of  coopera- 
tion, begun  mass  education,  and  planted  the 
seeds  of  helpful  new  ideas.  He  has  found 
movies  are  a  universal  language  for  educating 
and  civilizing. 

Janet  Herron, 
St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

The  Magic  Carpet 

Has  it  ever  occurred  to  you  as  you  sit  snugly 
in  some  palatial  movie  house,  watching  the 
best  in  pictures,  just  how  much  movies  may 
mean  in  the  world's  out-of-the-way  places  such 
as  this  little  Dutch  island  in  the  Caribbean  Sea? 

Here  in  Aruba  an  enterprising  individual  has 
recently  installed  in  an  old  hall  the  necessary 
paraphernalia  for  presenting  talking  pictures. 
To  a  colony  of  several  hundred  isolated  Amer- 
icans, who  for  the  past  few  years  have  had  to 
be  content  with  old  movie  magazines  and  ten- 
day-old  newspaper  accounts  of  screen  happen- 
ings, these  talking  pictures  come  as  a  bond 
with  the  outside  world. 

And  the  natives  share  our  pleasures.  Pos- 
sessing but  a  brief  knowledge  of  English,  and 
quite  obviously  a  briefer  income,  yet  they  go 
in  droves  to  see  the  pictures.  Their  enthusiasm 
as  they  witness  the  films  is  delightful.  They 
appreciate  humor  and  understand  the  dra- 
matic situations  in  a  way  almost  beyond  com- 
prehension when  their  limited  scope  is  consid- 
ered. 

The  movies  bring  them,  with  the  rest  of  us, 
nearer  to  far-away  America. 

Don  Heebner, 
Aruba,  Dutch  West  Indies 

Too  Wet 

I'm  not  a  crank  about  prohibition,  but  I'm 
getting  a  bit  fed  up  on  so  many  drinking  scenes 
in  pictures.  Like  the  gangster  films,  it's  about 
time  to  lay  off  a  bit. 

R.  W.  Carr, 
Malta,  Ohio 

Where  on  earth  does  the  virtuous  working 
girl  of  the  screen  get  her  stunning  clothes? 
She  may  live  in  a  stuffy  hall  bedroom  and  not 
eat  a  bite  for  several  reels,  but  her  gowns  re- 
quire not  less  than  a  $50,000  a  year  income. 
How  does  she  manage  it  on  the  wages  of  an 
honest  working  girl?  Please  let  me  in  on  the 
secret. 

Vollie  Dell  Graham, 

Houston,  Texas 

It  seems  to  me  that  no  matter  how  far  in  the 
hole  in  regard  to  money  the  hero  of  a  motion 
picture  is,  he  is  able  to  take  his  girl  to  all  the 
swankiest  night  clubs  in  an  expensive  car,  and 
he  has  a  tuxedo  and  a  suit  of  clothes  for  every 
day  in  the  week. 

Gordon  Mackay,  Jr., 
N.  Philadelphia,  Penna. 

It's  a  great  pity  that  the  actors  couldn't 
hear  the  applause  in  our  theater  for  "Charlie 
Chan  Carries  On."-  Warner  Oland  was  won- 
derful. 

Sarah  A.  Kincaid, 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 


•  IT'S  OFF  Accoual.  IT'S  OUT 


HARPER'S  BAZAAR 
SAYS 

ZIP:  The  big  nl»i  about 
this  package  .  .  .  ii  thai 
the  coil  it  ever  10  much 
leu  than  heretofore.  I 
can  always  ting  a  sin- 
cere paean  ol  praise  for 
ZIP. lot  it  Is  all  that  it  ii 
cracked  up  to  be:. ..per- 
manent .  .  .  simple  and 
absolutely  harmless  and, 
above  all,  sure.  There's 
much  to  be  said  lor  a 
product  which  year  alter 
year  lives  up  to  its  con- 
tract the  way  ZIP  does. 


Permanently  Destroys  Ugly  Hair/ 


Discovered  I    Sale  Cream  Depilatory 


btcaust 

ITS  OUT 

I   A  T  O   R 


TODAY,  ZIP  is  the  only  Epilator 
available  for  actually  destroying 
hair  growths  on  the  face,  arms, 
=  p  |  legs  and  underarms,  permanently, 

by  removing  the  cause.  Tested  and  approved  by 
thousands  of  women  over  a  period  of  twenty  years. 

So  simple.  So  quick.  ZIP  leaves  no  trace  of  hair 
above  the  skin;...  no  prickly  stubble  later  on;...  no 
dark  shadow  under  the  skin.  .  .  That  is  why  so  many 
screen  stars  and  Beauty  Specialists  recommend  ZIP. 

ZIP  is  pleasant  to  use,  safe,  and  delightfully  fragrant. 
It  is  this  product  which  I  use  at  my  Fifth  Avenue  Salon. 
It  acts  immediately  and  brings  lasting  results.  Now,  in 
its  new  package,  it  may  be  had  at  $1.00. 


XiP* 


JUST   spread   the  new  ZiP  De- 
u.  ^mr  ■     |  w    pilatory  Cream  over    the    hair 

[T  DEPILATORY  CREAM  to   be   removed,  rinse  off  with 

water,  and  admire  your  beautiful,  hair-free  skin.  If 
you  have  been  using  less  improved  methods,  you  will 
marvel  at  this  white,  fragrant,  smooth  cream;  safe 
and  mild,  but  extremely  rapid  and  efficacious;  in  a 
giant  tube,  twice  the  size  at  half  the  price.  ZiP 
Depilatory  Cream  leaves  no  unpleasant  odor,  no  irri- 
tation. It  is  the  most  modern,  instantly  removes  every 
vestige  of  hair,  and  relieves  you  of  every  fear  of 
GIANT  TUBE — a  half  foot  long     later  stubble  or  stimulated  hair  growths. 

And  if  you  insist  on  using  the  razor  at  times,  .  .   .  take  this  advice  from  one  who  knows:  Protect 

!  the  skin  before  applying  the  razor.    Simply  spread   ZIP-SHAVE  over  the  surface  .  .  .  and  shave. 

The  application  of  ZIP-SHAVE  not  only  speeds  up  the  razor,  but  overcomes  chap  as  well.   Tube,  50c. 

To  permanently  destroy  hair  ask/or 
ZIP  Epilator—  IT'S  OFF  because  ITS  OUT 
New  Package  $1.00 — de  luxe  size  $5.00 

For  removing  hair  and  discouraging 
the  growth,  ask  for 
ZiP  Depilatory  Cream.  Giant  tube  50c    Demonstrate    :  a  ATubeof  ziI,DepilatoryCream(50c) 


Treatment 


FREE 


If  dealer  cannot  supply  you  .  .  use  coupon 

•MADAME   BERTHE' 
:  562  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York 

:i  enclose  $ Please  send  me 

'  D  A  Package  of  ZIP  Epilator  ($1.00) 


at  my 

Salon 

562  FIFTH  AVE. 

NEW  YORK 


:  a  A  Tube  of  ZIP-SHA  VE  (50c) 


; Name 

;  Address. 


SPECIALIST 


;  City  <t  State.. 


I  12 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 

Sensible  way  to  lose 


FAT 


Woman  Loses  15V2  pounds 
in  2  Weeks! 

A  half  teaspoonful  of  Kruschen  Salts  in  a 
glass  of  hot  water  every  morning  before  break- 
fast provides  a  GUARANTEED  safe,  quick 
and  pleasant  way  to  obtain  slenderness. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Taylor  of  Lewisburg,  W.  Va., 
writes:  "I'm  not  quite  5  feet  tall  and  weighed 
175  lbs.  I've  been  taking  Kruschen  2  weeks 
and  now  weigh  159H  lbs.  and  never  before 
felt  so  strong  and  energetic. 

Kruschen  is  a  superb  combination  of  6 
SEPARATE  minerals  which  help  every  gland, 
nerve  and  body  organ  to  function  properly — 
that's  why  health  improves  while  ugly  fat  dis- 
appears. (You  can  hasten  results  by  going 
lighter  on  potatoes,  fatty  meat  and  pastry).  An 
85c  bottle  lasts  4  weeks  and  is  sold  in  every 
drugstore  in  the  world. 

KRUSCHEN  SALTS 

"It's  the  Little  Daily  Dose  That  Does  It" 


Baby's  Snuggle  Rug  keeps  out 
cold  and  draughts.  In  crib, 
carriage  or  car,  the  full  length 
Talon  fastener  foils  baby's  kicks. 
In  Kenwood  pure  wool  fabric 
and  other  fine  quality  materials. 
Trimmed  in  matching  satin  rib- 
bon. Insist  on  the  genuine— la- 
belled by  name  and  guaranteed. 
Priced  as  low  as  $3.00.  See  them 
at  yourleading  department  and 
infant's  wear  stores. 

Writ©  for  folder  on  Snuggle 
Ruga  and  the  new  "Snuggle 
Bunny"—  the  crib  cover  for  ba- 
bies and  children  which  keeps 
them  securely  covered  all  night. 

PRIZE  CONTEST 
Ask   your   dealer   or    write   immedi- 
ately   for    details    of    the    Snugrgle 
Ru«  Baby  Contest.  55  cash  prizes.  A 
snapshot  of  your  baby  may  win  $300. 


SNUGGLE  RUG 

FOR    BABY  — AND    ONE    FOR    DOLLY,    TOO  I 


high  School  Course 
in  2  Years 


ou  can  complete 

a   simplified   High 
School  Course  at  home 

rement*  for  entrance  to  collets 


AMERICAN    SCHOOL 

Oept.  H-E43.  Or.i.l  »v..  ft  58th  St.        ©  AS  1923        CHICAGO 


Last  Gall 
For  Votes! 


LAST  call  for  votes  on  the  Photoplay 
Gold  Medal  Award  for  the  best  motion 
picture  of  1930! 

All  votes  must  be  in  the  office  of  Photoplay 
by  October  1.  Votes  received  after  that  date 
will    not    count. 

The  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  is  the  only 
award  in  the  world  of  motion  pictures  which 
goes  directly  from  the  film  fans  to  the  producer. 

Each  year  Photoplay  presents  a  gold  medal 
to  the  producer  of  the  motion  picture  deemed 
the  nearest  ideal  by  its  readers.  Back  in  1920 
the  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  was  devised  by 
James  R.  Quirk,  editor  and  publisher  of 
Photoplay,  as  the  best  method  to  encourage 
the  production  of  better  films. 

Like  motion  pictures  themselves  it  has  grown 
in  importance  in  the  industry  as  a  mark  of  dis- 
tinction and  merit.  Each  year  the  medal  has 
come  to  be  a  milestone,  marking  the  steady 
progress  of  pictures.  Its  ten  years  of  existence 
has  marked  a  decade  of  moving  picture  achieve- 
ment, and  its  presence  is  a  stimulant  to  pro- 
ducers, encouraging  them  to  better  things  on 
the  screen. 

Since  its  inception  revolutionary  things  have 
taken  place  in  the  industry.  The  most  revolu- 
tionary, of  course,  was  the  change  from  silent 
to  talking  pictures.  With  this  achievement  a 
whole  new  world  of  entertainment  was  opened 
to  moving  picture  audiences,  and  an  entirely 
different  technique  was  presented  to  producers. 

As  in  the  silent  days,  the  Photoplay  Gold 


Medal  was  there  to  encourage  finer  things  with 
this  new  medium  of  screen  expression;  to  bring 
to  the  audible  screen  the  same  fine  efforts  with 
which  producers  sought  perfection  in  the  pre- 
sound  era. 

The  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  has  alwa}» 
stood  for  the  approval  of  picture  goers  them- 
selves for  a  producer's  best  efforts  to  add  some- 
thing to  screen  progress. 

Today  it  is  the  most  coveted  award  in  the 
film  industry. 

The  pictures  which  have  been  awarded  this 
honor  in  past  years  make  a  distinguished  and 
notable  list.  Just  consider  them:  1920, 
"Humoresque";  1921,  "Tol'able  David";  1922, 
"Robin  Hood";  1923,  "The  Covered  Wagon"; 
1924,  "Abraham  Lincoln";  1925,  "The  Big 
Parade";  1926,  "Beau  Geste";  1927,  "7th 
Heaven";  1928,  "Four  Sons,"  and  1929, 
"Disraeli,"  the  first  talking  picture  to  be 
awarded   the   medal. 

Every  one  was  a  fine  contribution  to  the 
screen.  In  casting  your  vote  take  these  into 
consideration  and  be  sure  that  your  selection 
is  a  picture  worthy  of  standing  beside  these 
ten  illustrious  winners. 

Remember  that  the  Photoplay  Medal  ot 
Honor  was  designed  as  a  reward  for  the  pro- 
ducer making  the  best  picture  of  the  year  in 
points  of  story,  acting,  direction  and  photog- 
raphy. 

More  than  all  else,  Photoplay  wishes  its 
readers  to  consider  the  ideals  and  motives  be- 
hind its  production.  Forget  per- 
sonalities and  favorites  in  favor  of 
the  broader  phases  of  the  picture. 


Photoplay  Medal  of  Honor  Ballot 

Editor  Photoplay  Magazine 

221  W.  57th  Street,  New  York  City 

In  my  opinion  the  picture  named  below  is  the 
best  motion  picture  production  released  in  1930. 


NAME  OF  PICTURE 


]\[ame- 


Address- 


ALIST  of  fifty  important 
pictures  released  during  1930 
is  also  printed  on  this  page.  It 
may  help  you  in  making  your 
selection.  You  do  not,  of  course, 
have  to  vote  for  one  of  these  pic- 
tures. Vote  for  any  picture  re- 
leased during  1930  that  you  think 
best. 

The  Photoplay  Medal  of 
Honor  is  of  solid  gold,  weighing 
1233^  pennyweights  and  is  two 
and  one-half  inches  in  diameter. 
Each  medal  is  made  and  designed 
by  Tiffany  and  Company  of  New 
York. 

Remember,  in  order  to  have  a 
voice  in  awarding  this  Medal  you 
must  vote  now.  It  is  the  last  call! 


Fifty  Pictures  Released  in  1930 


Abraham  Lincoln 

All  Quiet  on  tlie  Western 

Front 
Animal  Crackers 
Anna  Christie 
Big  House,  The 
Big  Trail,  The 
Case  of  Sergeant  Grischa, 

The 
Caught  Short 
Check  and  Double  Check 
Common  Clay 
Dawn  Patrol,  The 
Devil  May  Care 
Devil's  Holiday,  The 
Divorcee,  The. 
Doorway  to  Hell,  The 
Feet  First 


Free  and  Easy 

General  Crack 

Green  Goddess,  The 

Grumpy 

Hell's  Angels 

Holiday 

Journey's  End 

King  of  Jazz 

Ladies  of  Leisure 

Laughter 

Let  Us  Be  Gay 

Lummox 

Manslaughter 

Men  Without  Women 

Min  and  Bill 

Moby  Dick 

Monte  Carlo 

Office  Wife,  The 


Old  English 

Outward  Bound 

Rogue  Song,  The 

Romance 

Sarah  and  Son 

Seven  Days'  Leave 

Song  o'  My  Heart 

So  This  Is  London 

Street  of  Chance 

Tom  Sawyer 

Unholy  Three,  The 

Vagabond  King,  The 

While  Hell  of  PilzPalu 

Whoopee 

Willi   Byrd  at  the  South 

Pole 
Young  Man  of  Manhattan 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


ll3 


Granddaughter  of 
an  Empress 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  29  ] 


Sophia  or  someone  else.  Elizabeth  was  already 
the  mother  of  three,  one  of  whom,  the  Crown 
Prince  Rudolph,  was  later  murdered  or  com- 
mitted suicide.  History  has  never  been  able  to 
decide  which. 

Court  intrigue  sickened  Elizabeth  and  so  she 
decided  that  her  fourth  baby,  Caroline,  should 
be  hers  and  hers  alone.  This  child  was,  there- 
fore, entrusted  to  the  Kaisers  where  her  child- 
hood was  punctuated  by  the  brief,  exciting 
visits  of  the  Empress  mother. 

CAROLINE  has  never  seen  Emperor  Fran- 
cis-Joseph, husband  of  Elizabeth.  One  day 
he  was  to  make  a  public  appearance  and  Caro- 
line thought  it  cruel  that  she  should  see  the  man 
whom  she  was  led  to  believe  was  her  father, 
from  a  distance  and  with  a  group  of  impersonal 
onlookers.  But  her  mother  saved  her  this 
indignity  by  having  her  sent  away  the  day  the 
Emperor  was  to  appear. 

Empress  Elizabeth  often  talked  to  her 
daughter  about  King  Ludwig  II  of  Bavaria. 
He  had  died  when  Caroline  was  a  child  and  in 
speaking  of  his  death  Elizabeth  said,  "In  him  I 
lost  more  than  anyone  can  ever  know.  And  in 
him,  Caroline,  you  lost  your  best  friend." 
Elizabeth  carried  a  small  portrait  of  Ludwig 
wherever  she  went. 

Caroline  was  allowed  only  the  secret  visits 
and  occasional  glorious  vacations  with  her 
mother,  for  the  Emperor  was  absolute  and  the 
child  was  not  brought  to  court.  But  one  day 
when  Caroline  was  almost  grown,  her  mother 
told  her  that  she  was  to  come  into  her  birth- 
right, that  Francis-Joseph  had  consented  to  her 
being  presented.  Tragically  and  ironically,  a 
few  months  later  the  Empress  was  assassinated. 
This  was  in  1898. 

Stricken  by  grief,  Caroline  began  an  attempt 
to  piece  her  life  together.  She  had  loved  her 
beautiful  mother  and  she  was  heartbroken 
when  Mrs.  Kaiser  said  to  her  one  day,  "Your 
mother  and  the  Emperor  never  agreed.  Is  it 
any  wonder,  then,  that  they  went  separate 
ways,  and,  as  far  as  possible,  sought  consola- 
tion elsewhere?  " 

Was  it  fear  of  scandal  and  the  remembrances 
of  Elizabeth's  friendship  with  King  Ludwig 
that  kept  Caroline  away  from  the  court  of 
Austria? 

Her  mother  dead,  things  were  difficult  for 
Caroline.  She  was  forced  into  a  marriage  with 
Richard  Kuhnelt,  son  of  the  Court  Councillor 
Kuhnelt.  She  thought  that  he  did  not  know 
her  parentage  when  he  married  her,  but  she 
found  that  he  had  known  all  along.  For  a  time 
she  was  comparatively  happy  and  then  Richard 
speculated  with  the  money  her  mother  had  left 
her  and  lost  it  all. 

They  moved  to  a  small  place  near  Vienna 
and  it  was  there,  according  to  her  mother's 
story,  that  Elissa — who  was  christened  Eliza- 
beth-Marie-Christine— was  born,  December  6, 
1904.  (There  was  already  a  son,  Francis,  born 
November  17,  1902.)  The  discrepancy  here  is 
that  Elissa  says  she  was  born  in  Venice,  but 
you  will  note  that  the  birthdays  are  given  as 
the  same,  except  Elissa  omits  the  year. 

SO  Elissa  is  the  daughter  of  Caroline  and 
Richard  Kuhnelt,  both  Austrian.  She  is 
English  only  by  the  fact  of  her  marriage  to  an 
Englishman. 

Now  Caroline,  Elissa's  mother,  recounts  that 
in  May,  1906,  she  left  with  her  husband, 
Elissa,  Francis  and  a  nurse  for  Canada.  In 
March,  1908,  Richard  left  her  to  go  to  New 
York  and  thence  to  Austria.  Caroline  went  to 
British  Columbia  and  settled  in  Vancouver. 

What  Caroline  suffered,  alone  in  a  strange 
country,  without  funds  and  with  two  small 
children   to  support,   only  she   knows.     She 


Arm  Or  Leg  Hair 

Now  Easy  To  Really 

Get  Rid  Of 

Utterly  Without  the  Problem  of  Coarsened  Re-growth 


By  a  total  tack  of  stubble  you  can  feel  the  dif- 
ference between  this  and  old  ways. 


A  Discovery  That  is  Proving  to  the 
Wonder  of  the  Cosmetic  World  That 
Hair  Can  Not  Only  Be  Removed  In- 
stantly, But  Its  Reappearance  Delayed 
Amazingly. 

A  way  of  removing  arm  and  leg  hair  has 
been  found  that  not  only  removes  every 
vestige  of  hair  instantly,  but  that  banishes 
the  stimulated  hair  growth  thousands  of 
women  are  charging  to  the  razor  and  less 
modern  ways.  A  way  that  not  only  removes 
hair,  but  delays  its  reappearance  remarkably. 

It  is  changing  previous  conceptions  of  cos- 
meticians about  hair  removing.  Women  are 
nocking  to  its  use.  The  creation  of  a  noted 
laboratory,  it  is  different  from  any  other 
hair  remover  known. 

What  It  Is 

It  is  an  exquisite  toilet  creme  resembling  a 
superior  beauty  clay  in  texture.  You  simply 


Not  only  is  slightest  fear  of  coarsened  re-growth 

banished  but  actual  reappearance  of  hair  is 

slowed  amazingly. 


spread  it  on  where  hair  is  to  be  removed. 
Then  rinse  off  with  water. 
That  is  all.  Every  vestige  of  hair  is  gone; 
so  completely  that  even  by  running  your 
hand  across  the  skin  not  the  slightest  trace 
of  stubble  can  be  felt.  And— the  reappear- 
ance of  that  hair  is  delayed  surprisingly! 

When  re-growth  finally  does  come,  it  is  ut- 
terly unlike  the  re-growth  following  the 
razor  and  old  ways.  You  can  feel  the  differ- 
ence. No  sharp  stubble.  No  coarsened  growth. 

The  skin,  too,  is  left  soft  as  a  child's.  No 
skin  roughness,  no  enlarged  pores.  You  feel 
freer  than  probably  ever  before  in  your  life 
of  annoying  hair  growth. 

Where  To  Obtain 

It  is  called  Neet— and  is  on  sale  at  all  drug 
and  department  stores  and  beauty  parlors. 
Costs  only  a  few  cents. 

N,       Cream 
t  v   L     Hair    Remover 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Dept.9-P,  919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 

Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  $2.50  [Canada  $4.50. 
Foreign  $3.50]  for  which  kindly  enter  my  sub- 
scription for  Photoplay  Magazine,  for  one  year, 
effective  with  next  Issue. 


Send  to. 


Street  Addrett. 
City 


.State. 


Subscribe  for 
PHOTOPLAY 


RATES 

Yearly  Sibscription:  $2.50  in  the  United 
States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba; 
$3.00  Canada;  S3  50  to  foreign  countries.  Re- 
mittances should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal 
or  express  money  order. 

NOTICE! 

Do  not  subscribe  fnr  Photoi-ht  MASABHI 
through  unknown  persons.  Verify  the  credentials 
of  all  solicitors.  If  In  doubt  give  your  subscript  urn 
to  your  newsdealer  nr  use  the  coupon  and  send  it 
direct  to  Photoplat. 


ii4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


JOAN  BENNETT 
Popular   Star 


Hidden  Oold 

in  your  hair  too! 

{Rediscover  it  tonight 
in  one  shampooing} 

A  treasure  hunt. —  in  your  hair!  Hidden 
there  is  something  precious!  Loveliness  un- 
dreamed of;  a  sparkling  radiance  that  is  youth; 
key  to  popularity,  romance,  happiness!  You 
can  revive  this  charm  tonight.  Just  one 
Golden  Glint  Shampoo  will  show  you  the  way. 

No  other  shampoo  like  Golden  Glint  Sham- 
poo. Does  more  than  merely  cleanse.  It  gives 
your  hair  a  "tiny-tint" — a  wee  little  bit—not  much— 
hardly  perceptible.  But  what  a  difference  i  t  makes  in 
one's  appearance.  Only  25c  at  your  dealers',  or  send 
for  free  sample. 

FREE        


J.  W.  KOBI  CO.,    630  Rainier  Ave.,  Dept.  T 
Seattle,  Wash.    *  *  *  •    Please  send  a  free  sample. 

Name 


Address . 
City 


.State. 


Color  of  my  hair  . 


If  You  Can't  Keep 
Within  Your  Budget 


increase 

your 

income 

this  easy 

way! 


All  the  figuring  in  the  world  won't  do  any 
good  if  one  side  of  the  page  doesn't  balance 
with  the  other.  Give  the  budget  a  boost. 
Do  something  about  it.  Our  plan  is  an  at- 
tractive, simple,  and  dignified  way  that 
countless  people  have  found  to  make  money. 
The  commissions  you  can  make  by  calling  on  your 
friends,  and  phoning  are  easily  earned.  Selling  sub- 
scriptions for  our  magazines  pays  well.  Many  who 
have  filled  in  a  similar  coupon  have  been  thankful 
ever  since.     MAIL  IT  TODAY! 

| , 

I    Agency  Bureau,  Dept.  PH  931,  i 

■    International  Circulation  Co..  Inc., 
I    57th   St.   at   8th   Ave.,    New   York.    N.   Y. 

I    Without   obligation,    please  tell  me  more  about  your   ■ 
money-making    offer. 


City     State. 


BggiiEi'irgcmnga 


Particulars  of  Dr.  Esenwein's  famous  forty  - 
lesson  course  in  writing  and  marketing  of  the 
Short-Story  and  sample  copy  of  The  Wbiteb's 
Monthly  free.    Write  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL 
Dept.  95.  Springfield.  Mass. 


served  as  a  cook  at  the  Yale  Hotel  and  then 
opened  a  small  shop  to  sell  Viennese  candy. 
This  shop  she  sold  at  a  profit  and,  by  lucky 
speculation  in  land,  she  amassed  a  small 
fortune.  She  also  gave  music  and  language 
lessons. 

IT  was  in  Vancouver  that  she  met  Count 
Zarnardi  Landi  and  married  him  (she  was 
by  now  separated  from  Richard). 

Deciding  that  it  was  wrong  to  deny  Elissa 
and  P'rancis  their  birthright,  she  went  with  her 
husband  to  Austria  in  191 1.  There  she  met  her 
mother's  sister,  Queen  Marie-Sophia,  of 
Naples,  who,  when  she  was  shown  the  pictures 
of  Caroline's  children,  Elissa  and  Francis,  was 
struck  by  the  little  girl's  resemblance  to 
Empress  Elizabeth  and  by  the  Hapsburg  ex- 
pression on  the  little  boy's  face. 

But  all  of  the  lawyers'  entreaties  to  the 
court — the  Emperor  was  very  ill  at  the  time — 
brought  Caroline  nothing  but  an  offer  of 
money. 

She  did  not  want  money,  only  recognition, 
and  it  was  for  that  reason  that  she  wrote  her 
book  to  present  her  case  before  the  public. 

Suppressed  in  Italy  and  France,  it  was  at 
last  published  in  England  in  1914. 

In  the  meantime,  Elissa  and  her  brother 
were  brought  to  London,  and  from  then  on  you 
know  the  story  of  Elissa,  her  success  as  a 
novelist,  her  sudden  rise  to  fame  upon  the 
stage,  her  marriage  to  John  Lawrence,  an 
English  barrister,  her  coming  to  America  to 
play  the  lead  on  the  stage  in  "A  Farewell  to 
Arms,"  and  her  being  signed  to  star  in  films. 

Elissa's  mother,  who  is  still  alive,  says  in  her 
memoirs  that  she  looks  forward  to  "the  day 
when  my  book  will  be  in  the  hands  of  the  read- 
ing public  which  will  be,  I  am  sure,  an  impartial 
judge  towards  me  and  a  generous  protector  of 
my  children." 

But  Elissa,  instead  of  being  admitted  to  the 
court  of  Austria,  her  rightful  place,  according 


to  her  mother,  was  admitted  to  the  court  of 
Hollywood.  An  interesting  sidelight  is  that 
her  grandmother,  the  Empress,  was  related  to 
the  Archduke  Franz-Ferdinand  whose  assassi- 
nation at  Sarajevo  began  the  World  War. 

And  thus  is  Elissa  explained.  Thus  are  her 
great  charm,  her  poise,  her  beauty  and  her 
subtle  arrogance  more  understandable. 

I  shall  never  forget  my  first  meeting  with  her. 
She  had  come  in  from  horseback  riding,  which 
she  loves,  and  was  lounging  in  a  suit  of  green 
pajamas  against  a  divan  across  which  a  large 
beige  fur  rug  had  been  thrown.  I  felt  immedi- 
ately the  strange  vitality  of  the  woman — I  felt 
more  than  our  conversation  warranted,  for  she 
did  not  talk  a  great  deal  and  she  was  reluctant 
to  admit  her  great  passion  for  music  and  her 
lust  for  beautiful  words. 

Since  writing  was  first  with  her,  it  is  that  she 
loves  more  than  acting.  She  spoke  dramati- 
cally of  the  glory  of  living  in  a  secret  world,  of 
one's  own  creating,  a  world  the  doors  of  which 
may  be  locked  from  the  inside  without  fear  of 
there  being  a  duplicate  key. 

"pLISSA  has  a  great  many  things  to  do.  She 
■'—'must  be  a  good  actress,  since  she  has  chosen 
that,  but  she  must  also  write,  since  she  must. 
Seven  hours  sleep  is  enough  for  her  because  she 
takes  plenty  of  moderate  exercise.  She  stores 
up  her  health  for  the  jobs  ahead  of  her. 

Because  she  does  not  like  people  in  crowds 
and  she  is  bored  by  big  parties,  she  is  fearful 
lest  she  become  a  crank.  She  likes  people 
singly  or  in  twos.  Hers  is  a  rich  and  full  life 
because  it  is  the  life  of  the  mind. 

It  is  impossible  to  give  a  picture  of  so  com- 
plex a  woman.  But  certainly  she  does  not  belie 
her  noble  birth.  Sure,  calm,  poised,  intelligent, 
beautiful,  glamorous,  altogether  lovely,  Elissa 
is,  and  I  feel  that  her  grandmother,  the 
Empress  Elizabeth  of  Austria  would,  had 
she  lived,  have  been  proud  to  claim  her  as 
her  own! 


The  Man  Who  Tried  to  Elope  With  Garbo 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  33] 


these  things  as  Greta's  friend.  That  Greta,  the 
most  exotic  star  of  them  all,  lived  a  life  apart 
from  the  film  colony — an  existence  quieter  than 
the  most  obscure  shop  girl.  I  learned  that  if  I 
wanted  to  continue  being  Greta's  pal,  I,  too, 
must  live  a  life  apart.  That  I  must  not  allow 
outsiders  to  know  that  I  even  existed.  It 
would  be  suicide  for  me  if  the  world  discovered 
that  Greta  Garbo  had  a  boy  friend. 

"But  being  with  Greta  was  worth  it,  and  I 
forgot  everything  and  everybody  for  her! 

"As  time  went  on  Greta  occasionally  intro- 
duced me  to  an  acquaintance.  I  urged  her  to 
be  nice  to  them.  To  invite  them  to  her  house. 
To  go  with  me  to  call  upon  them.  I  par- 
ticularly liked  Jacques  Feyder,  the  French 
motion  picture  director.  Greta  and  I  often 
dropped  in  on  him  and  his  wife.  Soon  Greta 
commenced  to  grow  very  fond  of  them.  She 
also  took  a  great  liking  to  Mr.  Berthold 
Viertel,  the  German  director,  and  his  wife.  It 
wasn't  long  before  she  was  seeing  more  of  them 
than  she  was  of  me. 

"As  time  went  on  it  seemed  as  though  I  was 
always  waiting  for  Greta  Garbo!  Waiting  for 
a  chance  to  find  her  at  home!  Waiting  for  a 
chance  to  talk  with  her  on  the  telephone ! 

"T  SPENT  long  hours  waiting  in  my  little 
■*•  rented  room.  I  commenced  to  think  of  my 
father  and  my  mother  and  my  home  in  Stock- 
holm. I  longed  to  shoulder  a  gun,  call  my  dogs 
and  go  hunting  in  the  forest  on  our  estate  north 
of  Gothenburg. 

"My  mother  was  urging  me  to  come  home. 
News  of  my  sister's  engagement  and  approach- 
ing marriage  decided  me  to  go. 

"It  was  very  hard  for  me  to  leave  Greta."    I 


saw  tears  fill  his  eyes  as  he  turned  his  head 
away.    "  But  I  am  going.    It  is  the  best  way. 

"Her  contract  will  soon  be  up  and  then  she, 
too,  may  come  home.  For  she,  too,  is  tired  of 
Hollywood.  Tired  of  making  pictures  that  she 
does  not  want  to  make.  Tired  of  living  the  life 
of  a  hermit! 

"So  I  will  keep  on  waiting  for  her.  Hoping 
that  when  she  returns,  she  will  be  the  old 
mischievous,  rollicking  Greta  I  used  to  know." 

Then  Soren  bade  me  goodbye.  I  had  not  ex- 
pected to  see  him  again.  And  here  he  was, 
asking  if  he  could  have  a  few  words  with  me. 

WE  sat  down  on  the  couch.  His  words 
tumbled  out  in  excited  confusion. 

Garbo,  it  seemed,  did  not  like  the  picture 
about  to  go  into  production.  Soren  said  it  was 
a  silly  modern  version  of  "Sappho."  Greta  did 
not  want  to  do  it!  And  she  did  not  like 
Clarence  Brown,  the  director.  She  was  sick 
and  tired  of  the  whole  picture  business.  Sick 
of  Hollywood !    She  wanted  to  go  home. 

Soren  said  it  now  seemed  quite  possible  that 
Garbo  would  sail  on  the  same  boat  on  which  he 
had  booked  passage.  Slip  quietly  out  of  Holly- 
wood, taking  only  a  few  of  her  belongings  so  as 
to  arouse  no  suspicion !  Often  she  went  away 
on  trips.    No  one  would  suspect. 

For  thirty  days  no  one  in  the  world — except 
the  few  on  shipboard — would  know  where 
Greta  Garbo  had  gone.  She  would  remain  in 
hiding  on  the  boat  until  they  were  far  at  sea. 
What  a  sensation  there  would  be  when  the 
world  discovered  that  Garbo  had  fled  from 
Hollywood ! 

Long  into  the  night  Soren  talked.  I  was  to 
be  the  only  person  in  Hollywood  to  know  of 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


1  15 


Greta's  whereabouts.  A  day  or  so  before  her 
boat  was  due  to  land  I  could  give  the  story  to 
the  world.  And  had  Garbo  actually  slipped 
away  on  that  boat,  what  front  page  news  that 
would  have  made! 

It  was  a  fantastic  dream! 

Garbo's  future  plans  in  Europe  were  dis- 
cussed. 

Garbo,  it  seemed,  had  always  longed  to 
return  to  the  stage.  One  of  her  fondest  dreams 
is  to  play  the  Maid  of  Orleans  in  "Joan  of  Arc." 

ONCE  in  Europe,  Soren  knew  that  Greta 
would  have  the  theatrical  producers  at  her 
feet.  She  could  write  her  own  ticket.  Dressed 
in  shining  armor,  mounted  on  a  milk-white  steed, 
Garbo,  as  Joan  of  Arc,  would  ride  at  the  head 
of  her  army  and  capture  the  world. 

The  production  would  be  the  greatest  spec- 
tacle ever  seen.  Imagine  the  divine  Greta 
Garbo  as  the  Maid  of  Orleans! 

I  never  knew  what  happened  to  Soren's 
dream  of  Greta  Garbo  slipping  away  with  him 
that  night  on  the  freight  steamer  bound  for 
Sweden. 

The  day  following  his  last  call  on  me,  I  was 
called  out  of  town.  Upon  my  return  Soren  had 
sailed.  A  note  on  my  desk  told  that  he  had 
phoned  to  say  goodbye. 

Garbo,  I  learned,  was  preparing  to  start 
work  on  "  Inspiration."  All  seemed  to  be  quiet 
on  the  Swedish  front. 

Whether  Soren's  plans  were  the  fantastic 
dreams  of  a  lovesick  youth  or  actual  plans  gone 
astray,  I  never  knew.  No  word  has  come  from 
him  since  he  sailed  away  on  the  Swedish 
freighter. 

But  again  Hollywood  knows  that  Garbo  is 
dissatisfied  with  the  picture  she  is  making. 
"The  Rise  and  Fall  of  Susan  Lenox"  was  being 
considered  months  ago  when  Soren  was  here. 
Even  then  he  said  that  Greta  did  not  want  to 
do  the  story. 

"Why!    Oh  why!  will  they  not  allow  her  to 


do  one  story  she  herself  chooses?"  he  cried. 
"' Monna  Vanna,'  for  instance?  She  would  Ik 
marvelous  in  that." 

Is  this  last  picture  one  too  much  for  the 
Swedish  star?  Will  it  prove  to  be  her  Swan 
Song?  Has  she  at  last  determined  to  make 
good  her  threat  that  she  will  go  home? 

At  any  rate,  the  Los  Angeles  Examiner  re- 
cently printed  the  following  item: 

GARBO  WILL  TAKE  STELLAR  ROLE 
IN  REINHARDT  PLAY 

Vienna,  May  28 — Greta  Garbo  has  been 
invited  by  Max  Reinhardt  to  play  a  star 
role  at  the  opening  performance  of  his 
new  private  open  air  theater  in  Leopold- 
skron,  his  residence  near  Salzburg. 

Miss  Garbo  accepted  the  invitation  and 
will  pass  part  of  the  summer  in  Leopold- 
skron,  later  visiting  Vienna  and  Berlin, 
where  she  is  expected  to  play  as  a  tragedi- 
enne under  Reinhardt's  direction. 

If  this  item  is  authentic,  will  Garbo  have 
time  to  make  the  long  trip  to  Vienna,  carry  out 
such  plans  and  return  early  enough  to  star  in 
two  more  pictures  scheduled  to  be  made  before 
the  termination  of  her  present  contract?  Or 
does  she  actually  in,tend  to  go  home  and  not 
return? 

Could  it  be  possible  that  the  open  air  produc- 
tion in  Reinhardt's  private  theater  is  to  be 
"Joan  of  Arc"  and  that  later  this  same  produc- 
tion with  Garbo  as  the  star  will  be  shown  in  the 
big  cities  of  Europe? 

IS  Greta  Garbo  at  last  to  realize  one  of  her 
fondest  dreams  and  at  the  same  time  get  away 
from  Hollywood  and  the  "silly  pictures"  she 
does  not  want  to  make? 

From  her  friend  Soren's  prediction,  all  this 
seems  quite  possible.  If  true,  Hollywood  and 
the  screen  will  soon  see  the  last  of  this  mys- 
terious, exotic  northern  star. 


George  Comes  to  Earth 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  40  ] 


from  the  studio  that  "Mr.  Bancroft  has  a 
serious  throat  ailment  and  cannot  be  dis- 
turbed." But  it  was  learned  that  not  even 
studio  officials  who  wanted  to  talk  business 
with  him  had  been  able  to  get  to  him.  Holly- 
wood, frankly,  wondered  whether  George's 
throat  was  in  bad  shape,  or  his  head. 

"T  NEVER  knew,"  says  George  now,  "that  my 
*■  friends  were  trying  to  get  in  touch  with  me. 
I  did  have  a  bad  throat — and  I  guess  it  was 
doctor's  orders  that  no  one  should  be  allowed 
to  see  me,  and  that  I  shouldn't  be  disturbed 
with  messages  or  business.  At  any  rate,  none 
of  the  calls  ever  got  to  me,  and  I  never  got  any 
messages  that  people  have  since  said  they  sent 
me  at  that  time.  Hell,  I  like  people — why 
should  I  try  to  snub  them?  " 

"What  about  the  business  affairs?"  he  was 
asked. 

"Well,  you  know  I'm  a  strange  person,"  he 
explained.  "I  don't  know  much  about  busi- 
ness when  it  concerns  myself.  Now,  if  these 
people  had  been  trying  to  put  something  over 
on  a  friend,  and  I  saw  it,  I'd  understand  it  as  a 
third  party  looking  on. 

"But  when  they  started  those  tactics  on  me, 
I  just  didn't  know  what  it  was  all  about.  I'm 
not  a  business  man.  When  things  get  too 
complicated  for  me — when  they  start  coming 
at  me  too  hard — I  want  to  do  one  of  two 
things.  I  either  want  to  get  mad  and  tell  them 
to  go  to  hell,  or  I  want  to  walk  out  of  it  for  a 
while  until  I  get  my  bearings." 

And  that,  Bancroft  leaves  you  to  under- 
stand, is  what  he  did  last  fall — walked  out  of  it, 
rather  than  tell  the  Paramount  organization  to 
go  to  hell.     So  first  he  sequestered  himself  in 


his  beach  house,  now  private  at  last,  and  then 
he  went  East  to  New  York  for  a  while. 

None  of  his  friends  could  get  to  him,  but 
George  didn't  realize  that,  he  says. 

"  People  don't  understand  me.  They  look  at 
me — at  this  big  body  and  this  rugged  frame — 
and  they  don't  understand  that  I've  got 
nerves.  I'm  of  a  very  nervous,  high-strung 
disposition.  I  get  so,  under  strain,  that  I  go 
completely  tired. 

"Why,  after  say  thirty  days'  intensive  work 
on  a  picture,  I  get  so  tired  that  I  just  don't 
want  to  do  anything  except  sit.  I  don't  want 
to  see  people,  I  don't  want  to  go  places.  I  just 
want  to  sit  and  be  let  alone. 

"Normally,  I'm  not  like  that.  I  like  people. 
I  like  to  go  fishing,  say,  with  a  bunch  of  fellows, 
whether  they're  big  shots  or  not.  Who  a 
person  is  in  pictures  doesn't  matter  to  me  when 
I  pick  my  friends — it's  the  kind  of  people  they 
are,  not  who  they  are! 

"They've  said,  too,  that  I'm  temperamental 
at  work.  That  I  want  to  direct  the  director. 
Why,  say,  do  I  look  like  that  kind  of  man? 
You  know,  this  picture  business  is  a  funny 
racket.  There  are  so  many  people  involved  in 
a  picture.  .  .  . 

""pOR  instance,  the  author  writes  a  thing  one 
*-  way.  Then  the  director  comes  along  and  he 
changes  it.  'The  guy  that  wrote  this,'  he  says, 
'is  a  damn  fool.'  Then  the  fellow  that  wrote  it 
learns  about  the  change  and  he  gets  mad  and 
says,  'that  director  is  a  damn  fool!' 

"Then  I,  like  a  fool,  try  to  act  the  mediator, 
the  middleman,  the  peacemaker.  The  usual 
result  is  that  they  both  turn  on  me  and  say: 
'Aw,  Bancroft  is  a  damn  fool ! '    And  that's  how 


BEAUTY 

us  not  f<yi 


THE  woman  who  still  greets  her  mirror 
with  a  grimace — because  sallowness 
mars  her  skin  and  obscures  her  charm — 
has  only  herself  to  blame.  For  probably 
she  has  neglected  the  first  law  of  loveli- 
ness— that  of  keeping  internally  clean. 

Lack  of  internal  cleanliness — the  presence 
of  poisons  and  waste  in  the  system — docs 
more  to  spoil  good  looks,  kill  youthful 
alertness  and  charm,  than  any  other  thing. 
It  puts  many  a  woman  in  the  "almost  good- 
looking"  class — unnoticed,  unappealing. 

Health  and  beauty  demand  complete 
internal  cleanliness,  and  Sal  Hepatica  offers 
the  safe  and  simple  way  to  do  it. 

In  Europe,  the  rich  and  fashionable 
journey  regularly  to  the  famous  spas  to 
reap  the  benefits  of  the  saline  waters.  And 
Sal  Hepatica  is  the  American  equivalent 
of  these  famous  spas.  By  removing  bodilv 
poisons,  it  keeps  the  complexion  clear. 
Constipation  is  relieved,  charm,  vitality, 
attractiveness  are  regained  and  kept. 

Start  now  to  follow 
the  saline  way  to  love- 
liness with  Sal  Hepatica. 

Write  Bristol-Myers  Co., 
Dept.  G-91,  71  West  St., 
New  York  City,  for  a  free 
booklet, "To  Clarice  in  Quest 
of  Her  Youth." 

SAL    HEPATICA 


A  delighted  user  (Mrs.  B)  writes:  "I 
am  tickled  with  my  Graduated  Bristle 
Hair  Brush.  Not  only  does  it  massage 
my  scalp,  leaving  it  tinglingly  healthy 
and  remove  loose  dandruff  but  it  does 
something  I  never  dreamed  a  hair 
brush  could  do — it  saves  my  wave.  I 
use  it  in  preference  to  a  comb." 

Imagine  it!  Here's  a  brush  that  pro- 
motes lovely  hair — reduces  hair  brush- 
ing time  333^ — and  saves  your  wave. 

And  yet  you  pay  only  $2  for  the  large 
size  brush  or  $1 .25  for  the  regular  size. 
Every  brush  is  genuine  Pyroloid.  Send 
for  one  today — specifying  size  and 
color,  nile  green,  beige  or  coral.  We'll 
appreciate  it,  if  you'll  add  your  dealer's 
name.    Order  yours  now. 


THE 

WILCOX 

HAIR  BRUSH 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


I  got  my  reputation  for  being  temperamental 
or  butting-in-y  on  the  set — merely  because  I'd 
try  to  smooth  things  out  between  other  people. 
You  know,  I  could  join  their  game  and  say: 
'Well,  they're  both  damn  fools,'  and  let  it  go 
at  that.  But  I  always  tried  to  help  out,  and 
never  got  thanked  for  it." 

However,  be  that  as  it  may,  Bancroft  is  cer- 
tainly not  the  man  today  he  was  last  fall. 
He's  geniality  itself.  He  no  longer  snubs  inter- 
viewers, callers,  friends — instead,  he  welcomes 
them. 

"I  like  making  pictures,  crazy  as  it  is,"  he 
says.  "When  I  work,  I  work  hard.  I  want  to 
make  the  best  of  a  picture  that  there  is  in  it. 

"\  A AKING  good  pictures,  making  a  suc- 
■"*cess — that  to  me  is  happiness.  Money  is 
secondary.  Yes,  I've  got  a  new  contract.  They 
say  it  makes  me  $100,000  a  picture;  as  a  mat- 
ter of  fact,  I'm  getting  only  a  few  pennies — a 
very  few  pennies— more  than  under  my  last  con- 
tract. 

"  But  money  isn't  my  primary  concern.  I've 
made  a  great  deal  of  it  but  I've  given  a  lot  of  it 
away.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I  have  very  little 
money  left  out  of  what  I've  earned.  I  don't 
save  it.  It  hasn't  brought  me  any  great  happi- 
ness. I'm  not  much  happier,  if  any,  than  when 
I  was  just  a  vaudeville  performer  on  a  vaude- 
ville salary — 

"  Both  got  me  a  place  to  sleep,  and  enough  to 
eat.    There's  very  little  else  that  matters." 


section  view 
.  ows  how  con- 
caved bristles  of 
Wilcox  Hair  Brush 
fit  the  head. 


ATHOL, 
MASS. 


^»/^ 


EARN 

THAT   CHRISTMAS 
SPENDING    MONEY 

Old  established  house  wants  dignified 
representation  in  every  community  to 
sell  superior  Personal  Christmas  Greet- 
irg  Cards.  Many  exclusive  imported 
novelties.  Highest  com  missions.  Beautiful 
sample  book  free.  Full  Box  Assortment 
line.  Start  early  before  friends  buy 
elsewhere.  Write  Rochester  Art  Co., 
167  St.  Paul  St.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

SELL  PERSONAL 
GREETING  CARDS 


FORM  DEVELOPED 

by  a  Simple  Home  Method   that  has 
stood  the  test  of  28  years.     The  Most 
■  Direct  Way  of  getting  a  Symmetrical 
1  Figure —Arms,  Legs,   Bosom,  Neck— 
1  ANY  part.  Easy  and  Pleasant  to  use- 
no  medicine,  no  grease,  nothing  to  wipe 
off,  no  fuss  or  muss.    Send  Ten  Cents 
only  for  FULL  and    Valuable  Infor- 
mation, and    a  Big   Four  Dram  Box 
(please    note    the    size)    of   my 

PEERLESS  WONDER  CREAM 

The  original  All-in-one  Cream,  which  is  an  important  part 
of  my  system.  Remember,  Ten  Cents  only.  NOT  fifty  cents, 
or  a  dollar.     But  the  dime  must  reach  me,  so  wrap  I'p  the 

r.  in  or  .!»  »nd  itimpi.  But  doit  NOW.  MADAM  WILLIAMS,  SUITE 
270,  BUFFALO,  N.  Y. 


Wales 

How  to  banish  them 

A  simple,  safe  borne  treat- 
ment— 16  yeare'  success  in  my 
practice.  Moles  (also  Big 
Growths)  dry  up  and  drop 
off.    Write  for  free  Booklet. 


w 


WM.  DAVIS.  M.  D.,  124-D  Grove  Ave,  Woodbridge,  N.  J. 


You're  looking  pretty  grand,  Kay 
Francis!  That  very  formal  velvet 
evening  gown  is  all  that  it  should  be 
this  Fall.  From  its  slimly  moulded 
lines  to  the  bit  of  glittering  trimming, 
it  is  stunning.  Note  the  bracelets 
worn  on  either  arm — a  nice  touch. 
The  hemline  would  be  a  bit  smarter  if 
it  missed  the  floor 


t  e  I 


ibassad 


or 


The  Ambassador 
Hotel  is  represent- 
ative of  everything 
that  the  finest 
hostelry  can  be  in 
location,  charm,  ex- 
cellence of  menus 
and  service. 

There  are  always 
celebrities  of  the 
screen  world  at 
The  Ambassador. 
It  is  in  the  social 
center  on  one  of 
the  world's  most 
famous  thorough- 
fares. 

W     YOU 

PARK   AVENUE 
AT  5Ist  STREET 


S 


HAPE++ 
NOSE 


your 


30  DAYS 
HOME   TRIAl 


ANITA  INST 


Anita  Nose  Adjuster 
shapes  flesh  and  car- 
tilage— quickly,  safely, 
painlessly,  while  you 
sleep  or  work.  Lasting 
results.  Doctors  praise 
it.  Gold  Medal  Winner. 
87,000  users.  Write 
for  FREE  BOOKLET. 

TUTE,  K-28,  Anita  Bldg.,  Newark,  N.  J. 


52525252S2525252525252S25252S252S252S25252S252525252S2 


NEED 
EXTRA 
MONEY 

■ 

Then  Photoplay  can  help  you. 
We  need  wideawake  represent' 
atives  in  your  locality  to  handle 
our  subscription  business. 
You  can  establish  a  business 
of  your  own  and  earn  an  income 
which  will  help  the  "old  budget". 
Fill  in  the  coupon  below,  and  mail 
it  a  tonce  for  the  information  which 
will  help  you  earn  extra  cash. 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Dept.  93 1 , 91 9  N   Michigan  Ave,  Chicago,  III. 


52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 


52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 


52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 
52 

a 

52 
52 
52 
52 
52 

I 
52 
52 


252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525252525 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


Don't  Expect  Too  Much 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  45 


for  her  to  explain  that  they  needed  another 
Marie  Dressier  picture  in  a  hurry  and  would 
appreciate  her  delaying  the  vacation  due  in 

July. 

"I  believe  in  cooperation,  Mr.  Mayer.  If 
you  want  another  Marie  Dressier  picture  you 
shall  have  it." 

This,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  her  plans 
were  completed  for  the  annual  mid-summer 
visit  to  Europe. 

A  little  sleuthing  on  the  part  of  your  re- 
porter unearthed  the  plan  to  give  Marie  ten 
crisp  one  thousand  dollar  bills  as  a  bonus 
when  she  has  completed  this  extra  production! 

PLEASE  don't  get  the  idea  that  not  expecting 
too  much  is  entirely  a  noble  gesture  on  the 
part  of  Marie  Dressier.  When  she  left  "The 
Lady  Slavey,"  she  demanded  top-notch 
prices  on  her  next  production.  When  her 
contract  has  expired  with  Metro,  she  will  un- 
doubtedly refuse  to  sign  unless  the  figure 
offered  is  a  fair  return  on  her  box-office 
popularity. 

"Not  expecting  too  much  from  life  is  good 
business.  You  establish  a  reputation  for  fair 
play  at  one  place  and  you  get  more  money  at 
the  next.    It  is  like  good-will  in  business!" 

Pride  and  fear  often  hoodwink  the  ambitious, 
she  tells  us. 

She  was  the  first  to  leave  the  legitimate  stage 
for  vaudeville  when  a  manager  offered  her 
$1,000  a  week. 

"Isn't  it  too  bad  that  Marie  Dressier  killed 
herself  by  going  into  vaudeville?  She's  done 
for.  She'll  never  get  back  on  Broadway. 
Why  won't  she  listen  to  advice?" 

Marie  laughed  at  her  friends'  mourning. 
"The  Metropolitan  Opera  House  didn't  mean 
anything  to  me;  one  thousand  dollars  a  week 
did.  It  gave  my  mother  everything  in  the 
world  she  wanted;  the  Metropolitan  would 
only  give  my  pride  a  certain  inflation." 

She  recalled  the  case  of  the  pianist  who 
could  finger  the  ivories  as  few  she  has  known. 
He  had  spent  a  fortune  on  his  education  but 
was  starving  because  he  could  get  no  concert 
engagements.  "If  I  could  play  the  piano  as 
you  can,  I'd  haunt  the  saloons;  I'd  play  in 
cabarets  where  people  must  hear  me.  You 
don't  know  who  might  hear  you.  You  can't 
expect  life  to  bring  you  an  opportunity;  you 
have  to  work  for  it!" 

What — a  pianist  play  in  a  saloon!  He  was 
shocked  and  insulted.  But  Marie  had  done 
it  herself;  she  knew  the  experience-value.  She 
had  sung  for  ten  dollars  a  night  at  the  Atlantic 
Gardens;  she  had  danced  and  sung  at  an  old 
music  hall  for  fifteen. 

And  she  returned  to  Broadway  from  vaude- 
ville. 

"And  I  will  take  any  part  in  any  picture 
they  give  me  today.  It  may  be  a  bit  but  we 
need  good  bit  players  in  pictures!"  Inci- 
dentally, she  proved  this  in  "Anna  Christie" 
and  "Let  Us  Be  Gay." 

It  takes  courage  not  to  expect  too  much 
from  life;  real  courage. 

PROBABLY  the  blackest  part  of  Marie's 
career  preceded  her  last  entrance  into  pic- 
tures. 

She  had  not  worked  for  seven  years.  Seven 
years  is  a  long  time  to  be  out  of  the  show 
business.  She  had  been  living  on  her  principal; 
her  interest  would  not  support  her.  She  was 
down  to  less  than  $25,000.  She  knew  that 
without  work  that  might  not  last  to  save  her 
from  a  pauper's  burial. 

Yet,  the  world  did  not  know;  her  most  inti- 
mate friends  only  suspected. 

She  had  kept  her  name  in  every  newspaper 
in  the  country  as  though  she  were  working  daily ! 

"I  knew  that  when  my  time  came  to  return 
to  the  stage,  the  public  must  not  realize  I  had 


been  away  from  it.  I  made  use  of  my  society 
friends.  I'd  go  to  Mrs.  W.  K.  Vanderbilt,  Ann 
Morgan  or  Ambassador  Herrick  and  say, 
'Well,  I've  got  to  have  my  picture  in  the  paper. 
What  do  you  say  we  pose  together?' 

"I  didn't  expect  the  world  to  remember  of 
itself;  I  knew  I  must  make  it  think  about  me. 
I  played  politics  but  I  played  them  on  the 
level.  My  friends  knew  they  were  being  used 
and  did  it  to  help  me. 

"Charity  entertainments.  Trips  abroad. 
I  went  every  year.  The  ship  boys  always 
wanted  news.  My  friends  in  Europe  were 
famous  but  I  didn't  depend  entirely  upon  their 
names  to  help  me.  One  year  I  told  the  boys 
how  I  loved  Italy;  would  love  to  live  there 
forever.  When  I  returned,  they  asked  me  why 
I  didn't  stay  in  Italy  if  I  loved  it  so.  I 
answered:  'I  came  back  to  America  to  buy  a 
cow.'  It  was  true,  the  milk  in  Italy  was  poor 
then — but  that  remark  covered  the  country 
with  Marie  Dressler's  name  attached  to  it." 

A  FTER  "The  Callahans  and  the  Murphys," 
*VMarie  again  faced  oblivion.  She  worked 
for  approximately  eighteen  weeks  in  several 
pictures.  The  money  saw  her  through  but  her 
face  lay  on  the  cutting  room  floor.  It  looked 
as  though  she  might  not  get  another  engage- 
ment. 

"Advertise,"  her  friends  told  her.  Marie 
had  never  paid  for  advertisement!  She  de- 
cided to  risk  $2,000  of  her  dwindling  principal. 
The  day  before  she  was  to  withdraw  it, 
Edward  Everett  Horton  came  to  her. 

"If  you  would  only  play  the  Queen  in  'One 
Romantic  Night,'  "  he  begged.  "Of  course,  we 
know  we  can't  pay  you  anything  compared 
with  your  regular  salary.  But  you  have  plenty 
of  money — " 

Marie's  silence  gave  consent  to  the  financial 
situation. 

She  believes  in  keeping  her  secrets. 

She  played  the  Queen;  she  put  everything 
she  had  into  it;  she  became  the  rage  of  Los 
Angeles.  She  saved  the  $2,000  she  had  planned 
for  advertising.  She  could  never  have  bought 
what  this  part  did  for  her. 

Offers  poured  upon  her  like  hail-stones  in  a 
deluge. 

Perhaps,  she  could  have  signed  for  more  than 
$2,000. 

But  she  had  refused  to  lower  her  salary 
to  get  parts;  she  made  no  effort  to  raise  it 
when  parts  came  to  her. 

Of  course,  she  has  many  more  examples  to 
prove  her  contention: 

If  you  don't  ask  too  much  you  will  win 
your  battles.  But  she  specifically  asked  us 
to  print  this  one. 

"Never  give  up  one  job  unless  you  have 
another.  If  a  person  cannot  put  up  with  un- 
favorable conditions  on  one  job  he  doesn't 
deserve  another.  I  have  never  done  it.  I 
have  left  one  for  a  better  one  but  never  left 
without   another!" 

SHE  was  working  in  a  company  whose  prima 
donna  hated  her.  She  found  a  way  to  get 
rid  of  Dressier. 

"I  needed  that  job.  We  were  in  Philadelphia 
when  I  got  my  notice.  During  breakfast  the 
hotel  proprietor  saw  me  eating  alone  and 
asked  why  I  looked  so  glum.  I  told  him  the 
situation.  He  hired  the  best  lawyer  in  the 
city  and  the  prima  donna  was  given  her  choice" 
of  putting  me  back  or  paying  my  salary  for  the 
run  of  the  play.  She  put  me  back.  Imagine 
the  conditions.  I  knew  what  they  would  be. 
She  hated  me.  She  was  the  leading  lady — 
but  I  had  no  other  job.  When  I  could  get  a 
better  one,  I  took  it  but  I  made  the  best  of 
the  one  I  had  until  that  moment." 

Marie  admits  it  was  difficult — admits  life 
is  difficult  no  matter  what  rules  you  follow. 


1  '7 
ANITA   PAGE 

kno  ws 

the   style   importance 

of  lightweight  woolens 


The  popular  M-G-M  star  selects  this  youthful 
Hubrite  twepiece  bolero  frock  of  black  soft  wool 
crepe  with  rounded  twin  collar  and  bands  on 
sleeves  of  eggshell  and  chartreuse  wool  crepe. 
Metal  buttons  and  tailored  buttonholes.  Also 
navy,  brown,  or  green,  trimmed  with  eggshell 
and  contrasting  color.  A  value  at  the  price. 
Hubrite  frocks  from  $2  to  $11 — each  carefully 
styled,  cut  to  fit  the  "hard  to  fit,"  and  finished 
with  precision — may  be  obtained  at  such  stc  area 
as  McCreery's,  N.  Y.;  Filene's,  Boston;  Sibley's, 
Rochester;  Taylor's,  Kansas  City;  Younker 
Brothers,  Des  Moines,  and  Coulter's,  Los  Angele .=. 
Or  you  may  order  direct  from  Boston. 

Send  for  Style  Folder  P-9 
Pru.cs  sligl-.il>  highix  West  of  Roe\ia 


HUBRITE 


Ji  tfo  final  £JhocA& 


100-112  Shawmut  Avenue,  Boston,  Mass. 


1 18 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


What  Do  You  Want  To 
Know  About  The  Pictures? 

Is  it  a  good  picture? 

Is  it  an  All'Talkie,  Part'Talkie — Silent  or  Sound? 
Is  it  the  hind  of  picture  I  would  like? 
Which  one  shall  we  see  tonight? 

Shall   we   take   the   children? 

Photoplay  will  solve  these  problems  for 
you — save  your  picture  time  and  money. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

is  truly  the  outstanding  publication  in 
the  great  field  of  motion  pictures.  Its 
stories,  its  special  articles,  its  exclusive 
features  and  departments  are  absolutely 
different  from  anything  to  be  found 
anywhere  else. 


Photoplay   gives   you: 

A  wealth  of  intimate  details  of 
the  daily  lives  of  the  screen  stars 
on  the  lots  and  in  their  homes. 

Striking  editorials  that  cut,  with' 
out  fear  or  favor,  into  the  very- 
heart  of  the  motion  picture  in- 
dustry. 

Authorized  interviews  with  your 
favorite  actors  and  actresses  who 
speak  frankly  because  Photoplay 
enjoys  their  full  confidence. 

Articles  about  every  phase  of  the 
screen  by  outstanding  authori- 
ties  who  have  made  pictures  their 
life  business. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 


Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  $2.50  (Canada .$3.00, 
ForelKn  $3.50)  for  which  you  will  kindly  enter  my 
subscription  for  Photoplay  Magazine,  for  one  year, 
effective  with  the  next  Issue. 


Send  to . 


Street  Address. 
City 


.  State. 


Photoplay's 

"Shadow  Stage" 

is  nationally  famous.  Here 
are  reviews  of  all  the  new 
pictures,  with  the  casts  of 
all  the  players.  Photo' 
play  also  prints  monthly 
a  complete  summary  of 
every  picture  reviewed  in 
its  pages  for  the  previous 
six  months.  These  are 
but  a  few  of  a  dozen  great 
departments  in  which 
Photoplay  is  as  up-tO' 
the-minute  as  your  daily 
newspaper.  You  cannot 
really  know  the  fascinating 
world  of  the  screen  unless 
you  are  a  regular  reader  of 

PHOTOPLAY 


SUPERB  FICTION 

by  the  Foremost  Writers 


She  has  been  up  the  ladder  and  down  again 
more  times  than  the  average  person.  She  has 
gone   through  three  fortunes. 

"Today,  when  I  have  reached  the  cycle  of 
sixty,  I  leave  my  future  behind  me.  I  live  for 
each  day  and  each  moment.  I  have  come  to 
the  conclusion  that  there  is  a  power  which 
provides  for  our  future  as  long  as  we  have  pro- 
vided correctly  for  our  past. 

"Electricity  is  given  to  us.  But  we  have 
to  get  up  and  press  a  button  to  use  it.  The 
power  of  success  is  given  each  one  of  us;  we 
have  to  learn  how  to  press  our  buttons. 

"\  A ONEYis  one  thing  we  cannot  do  without. 
"*But  luxuries  bring  burdens.  The  larger 
the  fortune — the  larger  the  home,  the  position 
and  the  burden.  In  old  age  we  do  not  want 
burdens. 

"I  do  not  wish  to  end  my  days  with  a 
household  of  servants.  I  want  Maimie  and 
Jerry  who  have  been  with  me  eighteen  years 
and  understand  me. 

"Why,  since  that  paper  came  out  with  my 
salary  as  $5,000,  there  have  been  moments 
when  life  was  not  worth  living.  Everyone  has 
an  idea  where  I  should  put  it — to  whom  I 
should  give  it." 

She  shook  her  head.  "Too  many  people 
expect  too  much.  They  can  never  get  it- — If 
they  would  only  listen  to  old  age — "  She 
laughed. 

"But  I  guess  that  would  be  expecting  too 
much,  too — to  expect  people  to  listen!" 


Seymour  liked  this  smart  Fall  suit 
that  Dorothy  Jordan  wears.  He  says 
to  note  the  deep  armholes  in  the  short 
black  broadcloth  jacket — it's  a  new 
touch.  Astrakhan  fur  lavishly  trims 
the  jacket  and  also  the  skirt  of  the 
black  silk  frock  beneath.  Clever 
neckline.  Seymour  wasn't  very  en- 
thusiastic about  the  hat,  he  would 
rather  have  had  it  one  of  those  new 
eye-tilting  affairs 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


1  1 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Adrienne  Ames 
Richard  Arlen 
George  Bancroft 
Carman  Barnes 
Eleanor  Boardman 
William  Boyd 
John  Breedon 
Chas.  D.  Brown 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Juliette  Compton 
Jackie  Coogan 
Robert  Coogan 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlene  Dietrich 
Claire  Dodd 
Tom  Douglas 
Stuart  Erwin 
Skeets  Gallagher 
Marjorie  Gateson 
Wynne  Gibson 
Mitzi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 


Lenita  Lane 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Frances  Moffett 
Rosita  Moreno 
Jack  Oakie 
Vivienne  Osborne 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
Irving  Picliel 
Charles  Rogers 
Jackie  Searl 
Peggy  Shannon 
Sylvia  Sidney 
Lilyan  Tashman 
Rent  Taylor 
Regis  Toomey 
Dorothy  Tree 
Allan  Vincent 
Charles  Trowbridge 
Anna  May  Wong 
Judith  Wood 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Hardie  Albright 
John  Arledge 
Warner  Baxter 
Joan  Bennett 
El  Brendel 
Joan  Castle 
Paul  Cavanagh 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Roxannc  Curtis 
Jesse  DeVorska 
Donald  Dillaway 
Allan  Dinehart 
James  Dunn 
Sally  Eilers 
Charles  Farrell 
Janet  Gaynor 
Minna  Gombell 
William  Holden 
Olin  Howland 
Warren  Hymer 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
James  Kirkwood 
Flissa  Landi 
Nora  Lane 
Edmund  Lowe 
Myrna  Loy 
Jeanette  MacDonald 


Kenneth  MacKenna 
Mae  Marsh 
Victor  McLaglen 
Thomas  Meighan 
Una  Merkel 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Greta  Nissen 
George  O'Brien 
Sally  O'Neil 
Lawrence  O'Sullivan 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Cecelia  Parker 
William  Pawley 
Yvonne  Pelletier 
Gaylord  Pendleton 
Howard  Phillips 
Terrance  Ray 
Manya  Roberti 
Will  Rogers 
Peggy  Ross 
Rosalie  Roy 
George  E.  Stone 
James  Todd 
Spencer  Tracy 
Linda  Watkins 
Marjorie  White 
Charles  Williams 
Elda  Vokel 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Robert  Ames 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Atcs 
Evelyn  Brent 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Lita  Chevret 
Ricardo  Cortez 
Lily  Damita 
John  Darrow 
Claudia  Dell 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Jill  Esmond 
Noel  Francis 
Roberta  Gale 
John  Halliday 


Hugh  Herbert 
Rochelle  Hudson 
Kitty  Kelly 
Geoffrey  Kerr 
Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Joel  McCrea 
Addie  McPhail 
Ken  Murray 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Lowell  Sherman 
Ned  Sparks 
Bert  Wheeler 
Hope  Williams 
Robert  Woolsey 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ina  Claire 
Ronald  Colman 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 


Al  Jolson 
Evelyn  Laye 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St 


Eddie  Buzzell 
Richard  Cromwell 
Constance  Cummings 
Susan  Fleming 
Ralph  Graves 


Jack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Loretta  Sayers 
Barbara  Stanwyck 
John  Wayne 


Universal  City,  Calif. 
Universal  Studios 


Lew  Ay  res 
John  Boles 
Lucile  Browne 
Bette  Davis 
Sidney  Fox 
Rose  Hobart 


Bela  Lugosi 
Slim  Summerville 
Sally  Sweet 
Genevieve  Tobin 
Lois  Wilson 


Culver  City,  Calif. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


Dorothy  Appleby 
Nils  Asther 
William  Bakewell 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Charles  Bickford 
Edwina  Booth 
Herbert  Braggiotti 
John  Mack  Brown 
Jackie  Cooper 
Joan  Crawford 
Janet  Currie 
Marion  Da  vies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Douglass 
Marie  Dressier 
Jimmy  Durante 
Cliff  Edwards 
Phyllis  Elgar 
Madge  Evans 
Clark  Gable 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
Charlotte  Greenwood 
William  Haines 
Neil  Hamilton 
Helen  Hayes 
Jean  Hersholt 
Hedda  Hopper 
Leslie  Howard 


Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Marjorie  King 
Alfred  Lunt  and 
Lynn  Fontanne 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolplie  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Rav  Milland 
Robert  Montgomery 
Polly  Moran 
Karen  Morley 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Ivor  Novello 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita  Page 
Marie  Prcvost 
Irene  Purcell 
Marjorie  Rambeau 
Ruth  Selwyn 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
C.  Aubrey  Smith 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Lester  Vail 
Robert  Young 


RKO-Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  Gleason 
Ann  Harding 
June  MacCloy 

Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Pola  Negri 
Eddie  Quillan 
Marion  Shilling 
Helen  Twelvetrees 
Robert  Williams 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 
Thelma  Todd 


Burbank,  Calif. 

Warners-First  National  Studios 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Richard  Barthelmess 
Joan  Blondell 
Lilian  Bond 
Joe  E.  Brown 
Anthony  Bushell 
Charles  Butterworth 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Bebe  Daniels 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Kav  Francis 
Ruth  Hall 
Walter  Huston 


Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
Dorothy  Mackaill 
Mae  Madison 
David  Manners 
Marian  Marsh 
Marilyn  Miller 
Dorothy  Peterson 
William  Powell 
James  Rennie 
Edward  G.  Robinson 
Loretta  Young 
Polly  Walters 
Warren  William 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 
Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Tallulah  Bankhead 
George  Barbier 
Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Claudette  Colbert 
Tamara  Geva 


Miriam  Hopkins 
Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Gene  Raymond 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrett 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire,  1212  Gower  St, 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd,  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy,  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Pat  O'Malley.  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St, 
Ruth  Roland,  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor.  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray.  22  E.  60th  St..  New  York 

William  S.  Hart,  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsy    Ruth    Miller,   808    Crescent    Drive.    Beverly 

Hills,  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 


When  and  how  to 


shampoo 


page  15 


Once  in  two  weeks  is  the  average  time  . . .  The 
ideal  shampoo  takes  lots  of 
water  and  soap  .  .  .  Kiii'-r 
out  and  then  go  through  the 
process  again  .  .  .  removes 
the  last  traces  of  first  wash 
^  ™\  Wf'  •  •  •  Gives  the  hair  its  sheen 
'.■  and  gloss.     The  final  rinse 

water  should  be  .  . 


for  a  clear  skin  .  . .  page  12 

The  fundamental  need  of  any  face  is  cleanli- 
ness. Choose  a  pure  soap. 
Nothing  else  will  reach 
down  into  the  pores  and 
cleanse  them  properly. 
Go  to  bed  with  a  face 
really  cleansed  and  re- 
laxed .  .  .  Keeps  your 
face  young  and  fresh. 
Some  skins  are  . .  . 


for  more  attractive 

hands     ....     page  9 

Both  hoiv  and  how  often  you  wash  your  hands 
are  important.  Hands  must  be  washed  fre- 
quently .  .  .  Dry  them  thor- 
oughly. Finish  with  a  quick 
run  around  under  the  nails 
with  an  orangewood  stick.  If 
your  hands  chap  easily  use . . . 


Quoted  from  this  FREE 
booklet  .  .  . 


The  three  quotations 
above  are  from  our 
free  booklet  The 
Thirty  Day  Loveli- 
ness Test.  It  outlines 
a  definite  program  to 
follow.    Use  coupon. 


CLEANLINESS 
INSTITUTE 


CLEANLINESS  INSTITUTE.  Dept.  xo, 
45  East  17lh  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  roc  free  of  all  cost,  "The  Thirty-Day 
Loveliness  Test". 

Name  

Street  

Gty 


State  . 


I  20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


Goodbye  Dandruff! 

There's  nothing  mysterious  about  dandruff. 
It's  an  actual  substance,  just  as  natural  as  per- 
spiration. If  you  don't  believe  you  have  it,  try 
the  finger-tip  test:  gently  scratch  your  scalp 
and  look  at  your  finger-nails. 

Fitch's  Dandruff  Remover  Shampoo  dissolves 
and  removes  every  speck  of  dandruff  instantly 
under  a  money-back  guarantee.  It  lathers  freely 
and  rinses  easily,  no  acid  rinse  needed.  As  good 
for  blondes  as  brunettes. 

Try  Fitch's  today.  At  all  barber  and  beauty 
shops,  drug  and  department  stores. 

Send  for  free  trial  size  and  booklet 

T^^^m.      1*A      Dandruff 

F.  W.  FITCH  CO.,  Des  Moines,  Iowa.  PH9 

Please  send  me  generous  free  trial  package  and 

32  page  educational  booklet  "Your  Hair  and  Scalp." 

Name 

Address 

(In   Canada:     266  King  St.,    W.,   Toronto) 


1    •  • '  "IS*  a\  Bttfeatt  pVde»a' 


"AN  ADDRESS 


OF     D  ISTIN  CTION" 


SUBSCRIBE  FOR 

PHOTOPLAY 

Subscription  rates  will  be  found  on 

page  1 18.     Use  the  convenient 

coupon  furnished 


Girls'  Problems 


CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  16 


the  lavender  powder  over  your  usual  color  of 
powder.  Use  a  rosy  rouge  and  the  same  color 
of  lipstick.  Under  electric  light,  you  will  be 
interested  to  know,  lavender  powder  fades  out 
and  gives  the  skin  a  delicate  opalescent  tone 
that  is  charming. 

Greens,  which  give  most  skins  a  slightly 
sallow  look,  should  be  complemented  by  a 
natural  make-up,  that  is,  a  creamy  powder  and 
a  rouge  that  simulates  a  natural  flush.  The  lip- 
stick should  be  devoid  of  an  orange  cast.  This 
same  rule  applies  to  black  and  white. 

Girls  with  florid  skins  should  be  wary  of  reds. 
To  wear  reds,  they  should  tone  down  the  pink 
of  their  skins  with  a  powder  containing  some 
tan  or  yellow.  Little  rouge,  and  a  lipstick 
that  either  matches  the  natural  coloring  of  the 
lips  or  subtly  stresses  the  shade  of  the  dress. 

A  PROMINENT  beauty  authority  once  re- 
■*Mated  to  me  a  very  interesting  make-up 
trick  that  she  tried  on  a  woman  who  re- 
fused to  use  rouge  at  all.  This  woman  was  a 
potential  beauty,  yet  due  to  a  rather  violent 
prejudice  for  make-up,  she  had  a  drab,  color- 
less appearance. 

Finally  she  came  in  for  several  facials,  and 
when  she  was  being  made  up,  the  operator 
applied  a  light  foundation  of  liquid  rouge  all 
over  her  face.  It  was  so  light  that  when  the 
powder  was  added,  it  gave  the  appearance  of  a 
delicate,  healthy  glow.  All  the  former  sallow- 
ness  disappeared.  She  was  simply  amazed 
when  she  looked  in  the  mirror  for  she  had  been 
transformed  into  another  personality,  a 
vibrant,  glowing  one  quite  unknown  to  herself. 

Mary  Brian,  who  is  pictured  in  two  stages  of 
her  daily  make-up,  has  some  interesting 
theories  of  her  own  on  the  subject.  She  be- 
lieves it  is  far  better  to  be  un-rouged  than  over- 
rouged.    With  that  I  heartily  agree. 

Then,  in  regard  to  eye  make-up,  which  in- 
cidentally is  very  much  on  the  up  with  all 
smart  women,  Mary  believes  it  should  be 
avoided  for  daytime.  She  says  that  the  harsh 
light  of  daytime  hours  makes  heavily  made-up 
eyes  appear  bold  and  unattractive.  A  little  for 
daytime,  and  enough  to  stress  the  eyes  at 
night,  is  her  theory. 

She  uses  a  powder  three  shades  darker  than 
her  skin  and  brushes  the  surplus  off  with  a  soft 
brush  as  shown  in  the  small  photograph.  She 
applies  her  lipstick  with  a  stick  but  shapes  the 
line  with  her  fingers  afterward. 

Mary  does  not  like  the  exaggerated  cupid's 
bow  effect. 

Speaking  of  lip  rouge  and  its  deplorable 
habit  of  marking  bath  and  table  linens,  I  heard 
of  a  clever  little  red  linen  towel  which  is  being 
found  in  the  smartest  boudoirs  these  days. 
This  towel  takes  the  red  from  your  finger  tips 
and  lips  without  leaving  an  ugly  trail  behind, 


one  red  just  blends  into  the  other,  you  see!  A 
strip  of  red  linen,  and  you  can  make  them  by 
the  half  dozen  yourself. 

It  is  impossible  to  go  into  all  the  tricks  of 
make-up.  Every  person  and  every  star  has  her 
own  little  tricks.  But  boiled  down,  the  best 
theory  is  to  make  the  most  of  every  feature. 
Study  yourself,  and  with  various  tips  you  have 
picked  up  from  time  to  time,  create  an  in- 
dividual expression  of  yourself. 

Nina: 

You  do  not  tell  me  how  old  you  are,  there- 
fore I  can  not  give  you  your  exact  weight. 
However,  if  you  are  around  twenty  years  of 
age,  your  weight  is  almost  perfect.  Why  do 
you  want  to  lose  weight?  A  curve  or  two  is 
considered  very  attractive  in  these  days  of 
more  feminine  clothes.  If  you  were  really  over- 
weight I  would  recommend  it,  but  under  the 
circumstances  it  seems  foolish. 

If  you  will  send  me  a  stamped,  self -ad- 
dressed envelope,  however,  I  will  send  you  my 
booklet  of  normalizing  exercises  and  non- 
fattening  menus. 

Puzzled: 

No  one  at  twenty-two  should  look  into  the 
future  and  find  it  barren  of  happiness.  I  read 
your  letter  with  great  interest  and  I  am  glad 
that  you  gave  some  of  your  pent-up  feelings  an 
outlet.  That  is  what  you  need.  Much,  too 
much  of  unhappiness  and  distress  has  been 
locked  within  you  for  a  long  time.  It  is  not  a 
healthy  condition.  Talking  to  a  sympathetic 
person  so  often  seems  to  clear  phobias  and 
fears  away. 

I  hope  that  you  won't  feel  that  I  am  brushing 
your  problem  aside,  for  I  am  deeply  inter- 
ested, but  I  do  feel  that  you  should  talk  per- 
sonally with  someone  who  can  help  you  more 
than  I  possibly  can  through  a  letter.  May  I 
urge  you  to  go  to  a  nerve  specialist?  The  best 
one  that  you  can  find. 

Tell  him  all  that  you  have  told  me,  frankly 
and  freely.  I  know  you  will  find  sympathy 
and  understanding. 

Nothing  is  so  detrimental  to  happiness  as  a 
disturbed  mental  outlook.  You  are  young, 
attractive  and  seemingly  endowed  with  more 
than  average  good  fortune  in  your  surround- 
ings. You  should  have  all  the  normal,  happy 
reactions  of  a  girl  of  your  age.  You  are  being 
cheated,  not  because  of  a  superficial  feeling  of 
shyness  but  due  to  a  deep  mental  distress 
which  should  not  be  fostered  longer. 

Develop  your  talent  for  art,  too.  It  will 
prove  a  marvelous  outlet  for  a  sensitive  person 
such  as  you.  Put  your  soul  and  energy  into 
making  it  something  real  in  your  life.  A  per- 
son who  has  a  definite  goal  to  work  toward  has 
less  time  to  be  introspective  and  lonely. 


September  Birthdays 


September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 
September 


1 — Renee  Adoree 
1 — Richard  Arlen 
1 — Marilyn  Miller 
1 — George  O'Brien 
1 — Miriam  Seegar 
2 — David  Rollins 
3 — Mary  Doran 
4 — John  Mack  Brown 
5 — Doris  Kenyon 
7 — Roscoe  Karns 
7 — Merna  Kennedy 
9 — Pauline  Garon 
9— Neil  Hamilton 

10 — Bessie  Love 

1 1 — Paul  Muni 

12 — Maurice  Chevalier 

13 — Edwina  Booth 


September  13- — Claudette  Colbert 
September  14 — John  Halliday 
September  14— Don  Jose  Mojica 
September  15 — Larry  Kent 
September  15 — Fay  Wray 
September  17 — Dolores  Costello 
September  17 — O.  P.  Heggie 
September  17 — Esther  Ralston 
September  18 — Greta  Garbo 
September  19 — Ricardo  Cortez 
September  20 — Elliott  Nugent 
September  22 — Eric  Von  Stroheim 
September  23 — Walter  Pidgeon 
September  24 — Julia  Faye 
September  26 — Antonio  Moreno 
September  30 — George  Bancroft 
September  30 — Ralph  Forbes 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


I  2  1 


Her  Own  Best  Enemy 


COXTINXED  FROM  PACE  54 


"Oh,  isn't  that  sweet!"  gurgles  Lavina. 
"Won't  you  let  me  help  you?  My  boy  friends 
all  say  I'm  great  on  writing  cute  pash  notes." 

But  Pink  replies,  real  serious,  "No,  Ma'am, 
you  couldn't.  You're  a  mighty  sweet  girl,  but 
I  don't  think  you'd  understand  some  of  the 
sentiments  I'm  aiming  to  express." 

AND  with  that,  he's  off  to  get  writing 
materials  and  as  soon  as  the  Chink  has 
cleared  the  supper  things,  he  sits  down  at  the 
table  and  takes  pen  in  hand.  But  I  guess  he 
didn't  find  composing  love  notes  so  easy,  for 
after  half  an  hour  of  scowling  and  perspiring, 
he  comes  over  to  me  for  advice. 

I  sends  him  on  to  the  scenario  writer,  who 
should  be  handy  at  that  sort  of  thing,  if  any- 
one was. 

The  two  of  'em  put  their  heads  together  for 
quite  a  spell  and  late  that  evening,  I  finds 
Zoebeck  examining  some  words  the  Chink  is 
wiping  off  the  oilcloth  table  cover. 

"Isn't  that  terrible?"  demands  the  manager, 
pointing  out  "grand  passion"  and  "eternally 
yours." 

"Plumb  fierce!"  I  says,  having  always  be- 
lieved that  if  a  man  must  unloose  such  senti- 
ments, it  shouldn't  be  done  in  writing. 

"I'd  fire  Lavina,  if  I  could,  but  it  would  ruin 
the  picture." 

Zoebeck  grits  his  teeth,  'til  I  was  afraid  his 
upper  plate  would  crack. 

"Why?"  I  asks  surprised.  "She's  just  try- 
ing to  be  helpful  to  your  financial  assister  in  his 
love  affair." 

"A  helluva  help  she's  been,"  he  snarls. 
"What  would  you  say  if  I  told  you  there  was 
no  such  person  as  Vilma  Roselle?" 

"I'd  say  you  was  crazy.  I've  seen  her  my- 
self." 

"You've  seen  her  in  films,  but  you  haven't 
seen  her  in  person  and  you  won't,  ever.  Mr. 
Cottonwood,  I'm  going  to  tell  you  something 
that  I  threatened  my  troupe  they'd  be  fired  and 
blacklisted  for,  if  they  ever  let  on  around  this 
ranch.  When  I  started  the  All  Arts  Film 
Company,  my  shoe-string  wouldn't  have 
threaded  a  baby's  bootie — " 

"That's  no  surprise  to  me,"  I  cuts  in,  "any 
more  than  that  the  check  you  talked  of  when 
you  first  came,  never  seems  to  have  got  dug  out 
of  that  blizzard." 

But  Zoebeck  was  too  wrought  up  to  take 
heed  of  my  chaffing.  "To  speak  facts,"  he 
continues,  "during  my  first  picture,  I  ran  short 
paying  what  actors  I  had  for  the  first  sequence, 
and  engaging  a  heavy  woman  for  the  denoue- 
ment was  out  of  the  question.  So  Lavina,  who 
is  smart  though  hellish,  volunteered  to  disguise 
herself  and  play  the  role. 

"She  changed  the  shape  of  her  mouth  and 
eyebrows  by  make-up,  put  on  brown  powder, 
a  black  wig  and  high  heels,  padded  her  hips  and 
called  herself  'Vilma  Roselle,'  and  with  the 
help  of  a  little  double  exposure  camera  work, 
she  played  the  heavy  woman  herself,  and  so 
help  me,  if  she  didn't  make  such  a  hit,  we  had 
to  continue  the  character  through  the  rest  of 
the  series." 

KNOWING  how  crazy  pictures  are  made,  I 
felt  no  surprise,  but  still  I  couldn't  help 
wondering  about  what  the  scenario  writer 
called  "the  human  equation." 

"What  you're  trying  to  tell  me,"  I  sums  up, 
"is  that  Lavina  is  really  Vilma,  or  Vilma 
is  Lavina,  or  rather  that  one  of  them  is  both. 
That's  all  right  with  me,  but  why  in  Sam  Hill 
should  this  two-person  woman  go  to  all  the 
trouble  she  has  just  to  plague  a  poor  cowboy?  " 

"Don't  you  understand,"  replies  the  man- 
ager, "Mr.  Hawkins  has  insulted  her." 

"How  come?  One  thing  I'll  say  for  Pink, 
I've  never  seen  him  fall  down  in  his  etiquette 
with  women." 


"He  insulted  Lavina  the  first  time  they  met 
and  he's  kept  on  insulting  her  by  daring  to 
show  interest  in  another  woman  while  she's 
around." 

"But  that  other  woman  happens  to  be  her- 
self," I  puzzles. 

"That  makes  no  difference,"  cries  Zoebeck. 
"Being  a  picture  producer,  I  understand 
psychology,  especially  feminine  psychology, 
and  I  know  that  nothing  short  of  earthquake  or 
pestilence  is  going  to  keep  Lavina  from  vamp- 
ing that  cowboy  away  from  her  shadow  self, 
and  meantime  she'll  punish  him  plenty." 

"I  reckon  she  will,"  I  assents,  "but  what 
mostly  interests  me  is  how  Pink's  going  to  act 
when  he  finds  out  the  deception." 

"That's  what  interests  me,  too,"  admits 
Zoebeck,  worried  like.  "  Do  you  think  he'll 
consider  it  comes  under  the  head  of  'funny 
business'?" 

"  I  reckon  he  will,"  I  assents.  Then  enjoying 
the  pained  expression  on  the  manager's  face,  I 
invents  a  pleasing  yarn  of  how  Pink  had  come 
to  the  ranch,  after  killing  a  man  in  Texas  and 
how  he  come  to  Texas  after  smashing  a 
marshal's  jaw  in  Montana,  but  by  the  time  I 
gets  to  why  Pink  had  come  to  Montana, 
Zoebeck  has  faded. 

XTEXT  evening,  as  we  ride  in  from  the  range. 
*-  ^  we  find  Lavina  waiting  perched  on  the 
corral  gate  and  waving  a  slip  of  paper. 

"Well,  my  handsome  hero,"  she  cries  to 
Pink,  "here's  a  telegram  in  answer  to  your 
letter.  It  came  over  the  'phone,  but  the  Chink 
couldn't  understand,  so  I  took  down  the  mes- 
sage myself." 

And  before  Pink  could  make  protest,  she 
starts  reading  out  loud: 

"Darling  Pink,  your  letter  wonderful. 
Crazy  meet  you  and  would  come  to  ranch 
immediately  but  kid  brother  sick  and 
must  stay  nurse  him.    Write  often.    Love. 

Vilma." 

Then,  almost  before  Pink  could  get  the  full 
effect  of  those  loving  words,  Lavina  snuggles 
up  close  to  him  and  coos: 

"That  surely  must  have  been  a  wonderful 
letter  you  wrote  Vilma." 

"It  was,  Ma'am,  it  was,"  assents  Pink, 
solemn  like. 

"I  wish  I  could  get  a  letter  like  that. 
Couldn't  you  write  me  one  sometime?" 

"I'd  like  to,  Little  Lady,  but  I'm  afraid  I 
haven't  got  more  than  one  of  'em  in  me." 

After  that,  every  evening,  Pink  composes  a 
letter  to  Vilma,  and  every  afternoon,  Lavina 
arranges  for  him  to  get  some  kind  of  message  in 
reply. 

Each  one,  from  the  way  Pink's  eyes  would 
pop  when  he  read  it,  must  have  been  hotter 
than  the  last. 

Yes,  it  was  evident  that  as  Vilma,  Lavina 
was  doing  all  she  could  to  rivet  that  cowboy's 
affections. 

On  the  other  hand,  as  herself,  she  didn't 
miss  out  on  any  tricks,  either.  It  was  like  a 
man  playing  solitaire  and  being  firm  set  on 
not  cheating  himself. 

OAME  along  the  last  night  before  the  last 
^-*day  the  troupe  was  to  be  with  us.  All 
through  dinner,  I  noticed  Lavina  didn't  sound 
off  as  much  as  usual.  Just  sat  still,  studying 
Pink  with  a  squint  in  her  eye  like  a  cowboy 
looking  over  an  outlaw  bronc  that  had  throwed 
him  in  a  rodeo. 

And  Pink  had  sure  throwed  Lavina. 

But  the  girl  was  game.  In  spite  of  all  the 
times  she'd  bit  dust,  she  still  came  back  for 
more  punishment. 

Late  that  evening,  as  I  was  coming  up  from 
the  tack  shed,  I  chanced  upon  them  as  she  was 


Let  me  tell  you 
of  this  better  way 
to  remove  hair 

fay 


Removing  ugly  superfluous  hair — swiftly — 
easily — from  the  under-arms*,  fore-arms  and 
legs  is  a  problem  many  women  find  hard  to 
solve  ...  I,  myself,  had  just  about  given  up 
hope  when  I  discovered  DEL-A-TONE 
Cream. 

You  can  imagine  my  delight  in  finding,  at 
last,  a  cream  that  not  only  removes  hair 
more  quickly  and  more  thoroughly  than  any- 
thing I  had  ever  used,  but  does  not  cause 
heavier  regrov.  th. 

Creamy  white  —  DEL-A-TOXE  removes 
hair  in  3  minutes  or  less.  It  has  no  over- 
powering offensive  odor — is  as  easy  to  use 
as  cold  cream  and  leaves  your  skin  clean, 
smooth   and   white. 

Soon  as  you  try  DEL-A-TOXE  you'll  un- 
derstand why,  after  using,  women  say,  "Now 
...  I  can  stand  the  public  gaze." 

^Removal  of  under-arm  hair  lessens  per- 
spiration odor. 

DELATONE 

The   AU-W  hitt>    Cream    H.-iir- 

remover 

— now  comes  in  two  size9 

50c  New Larger  $1 


MONEY-BACK    GUARANTEE 

Del-a-tone  has  attained  wide  pop- 
ularity on  real  merit  alone.     Some 
user?    report   diminished    hair 
growth.       No    extravagant,    exag- 
gerated   advertising    claims    are 
made.     Superior  quality  is  the 
only    reason    for    asking    you 
to   try    it   and    to   guarantee 
that    your    money    will    be 
V     cheerfully   refunded   if   you 
\      are  not  satisfied. 

! 

Del-a-tone  Cream,  50c  and  %\  (also  Del-a-tone 
Powder,  $1  size,  only)  at  drug  and  department 
stores.  Or  sent  prepaid  in  V.  S.  in  plain  wrapper. 
(Trial  tube,  10c — use  coupon  below.)  Write  Miss 
Mildred  Hadley,  The  Delatone  Co..  (Est.  1908), 
Dept.  89,  233  East  Ontario  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

I      Mi«.  Mil.l-.-ii  Ha.il-v 
I  Dept.  89.  D«l»tol 


122 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


Be  Your 
BerterSelf.. 


B. 


'owed  down  with  care? 
Feeling  low?  Fill  your  glass  with 
the  original  College  Inn  Tomato 
Juice  Cocktail.  Howreallyfineitis! 

Made  of  whole,  ripe,  juicy 
tomatoes — the  pick  of  Indiana's 
best — delicately  spiced  . . .  deli- 
cious .  .  .  appetizing.  There  is 
no  substitute,  says  the  epicure. 

Sold  only  in  the  original 
College  Inn  frosted  glass  cock- 
tail container. 


ORIGINAL 


TOMATO  JUICE 
COC  KTAI L 

College  Inn  Food  Products  Co. 


Randolph  at  Clark 
415  Greenwich  St.   . 


.  .  Chicago 
New  York 


making  her  last  play.  They  were  in  a  far 
corner  of  the  stoop,  Lavina  snuggled  on  a 
pillow  at  Pink's  feet  and  making  music  at  him 
with  a  steel  guitar.  Her  voice  wasn't  robus- 
tious enough  for  my  fancy,  but  she  put  a  heap 
of  hankering  into  it  and  what  with  the  moon 
just  edging  over  the  mountains  and  the  coyotes 
yelping  in  the  distance,  the  scene  was  sure  set 
for  romantics. 

In  spite  of  myself,  I  got  to  thinking  of  a 
Harvey  Lunch  Room  waitress  I'd  known  at 
Phoenix  and  I  hung  around  in  the  shadows, 
when,  by  all  rights,  I  should  have  been 
moseying. 

OUDDENLY  in  the  midst  of  Lavina's  croon- 
^ing,  Pink  puts  his  hand  over  hers  on  the 
bridge  of  the  guitar. 

She  looks  up  expectant. 

"Ma'am,"  he  starts,  soft  like,  "there's  been 
something  I've  wanted  to  ask  you  all  evening 
long." 

"Ask  me  anything  you  want  and  I'll  answer 
real  pretty,"  she  returns. 

"  Do  you  think  Vilma  would  find  objection  if 
I  made  her  a  present  of  a  guitar  like  that?" 

For  a  moment,  the  girl  stares  at  him,  mad  as 
a  heifer  stung  by  a  bee. 

"Why  not  give  her  this  one?"  she  cries,  and 
lifting  up  the  instrument,  she  smashes  it  down 
across  the  railing  and  hands  the  broken  pieces 
to  Pink. 

"Why,  Miss  Lavina?"  he  inquires,  startled, 
"whatever  are  you  up  to?" 

"There's  always  a  time,"  she  comes  back, 
"when  even  the  best  joke  has  gone  far  enough." 

"Joke?  What's  your  busting  a  good  guitar 
got  to  do  with  a  joke?" 

"No  use  my  keeping  that  guitar  when  I'd 
never  be  able  to  play  it  again  for  laughing." 

"Laughing?    Why  for  and  what  at? " 

"You  and  your  hot  sweetie,  Vilma." 

"I  beg  your  pardon,  Ma'am,"  reproves  Pink, 
"but  I  don't  consider  my  affection  for  that  lady 
a  fit  subject  for  scoffing." 

"Of  course  you  don't,"  cries  Lavina.  "That's 
what  makes  it  all  such  a  scream.  Oh,  if  only  I 
could  show  you  some  of  the  letters  I've  got 
from  Vilma!" 

"You've  been  corresponding?" 

"  Every  day.  She  sends  me  copies  of  all  your 
letters.  I  can  quote  some  of  the  mushiest 
spots  by  heart,  like — 'Little  Lady,  I  crave  for 
you  like  the  desert  craves  for  rain' — " 

"Good  evening,  Ma'am."  Pink  was  rising 
to  go,  but  Lavina  stopped  him. 

"Remember  this  one? — 'You're  as  remark- 
able as  a  woman  as  my  Pinto  is  as  a  horse — ?' 
Vilma  said  her  husband  was  crazy  about  that." 

"Her  husband?" 

"Yes,  Vilma's  got  a  husband,  only  it's  not 
talked  about  for  professional  reasons,  any  more 
than  her  three  kids." 

And  with  that  she  runs  off  laughing,  while 
poor  Pink  stands  looking  as  foolish  as  a  tender- 
foot, who's  put  the  wrong  foot  in  the  stirrup 
and  ended  up  on  the  horse  facing  backwards. 


NEXT  morning,  we  all  ride  out  to  where  the 
last  and  biggest  scene  of  the  picture  is  to 
take  place. 

It  had  been  thought  up  by  the  scenario 
writer  and  was  just  about  what  you'd  expect 
from  a  fellow  to  whom  the  word  "horse"  meant 
only  half  of  the  name  of  a  drink. 

He'd  fixed  it  so  the  hero,  disguised  as  a 
bandit,  was  escaping  a  gang  that  he  thought 
was  officers,  but  really  was  outlaws.  The  poor 
heroine,  thinking  the  hero  had  been  responsible 
for  her  brother's  death  in  a  card  game,  had  set 
out  to  trap  him,  but  had  got  trapped  herself  by 
the  heavy. 

Evading  this  hombrc,  she  had  flung  herself 
over  a  cliff  that  was  too  steep  for  him  to  get 
down  to  her,  but  by  the  same  token,  too  steep 
for  her  to  get  up. 

In  fact,  the  whole  ledge  was  supposed  to  be 
slipping  and  all  that  stood  between  her  and 
destruction  was  a  parcel  of  greasewood  roots 
that  was  really  ropes  painted  up  by  the  All  Arts 
people. 

Now,   it   was   the  hero's  privilege   to   ride 


down  an  almost  straight  cliff  and  taking  off 
from  a  narrow  ledge,  leap  his  horse  across  to 
that  crumbling  landslide  and  finally  scramble 
to  safety,  dragging  the  heroine  with  him. 

Not  wishing  to  endanger  the  neck  of  his  star, 
Zoebeck  had  sent  for  a  stunt  man  to  double. 
But  when  time  came  to  shoot  the  scene,  'twas 
found  the  agency  had  made  a  mistake  and  sent 
a  parachute  jumper  instead  of  a  horse  jumper. 
The  fellow  had  plenty  of  nerve  and  was  willing 
to  try,  but  we  soon  found  he  couldn't  even 
mount  one  side  of  a  horse  without  falling  off  the 
other. 

""THIS  started  a  terrible  ruckus,  the  director 
*■  claiming  the  story  was  punk  and  needed  the 
punch  to  bolster  it  up,  and  the  scenario  writer 
declaring  he'd  put  the  stunt  in  because  he  knew 
the  director  was  falling  down  on  his  job. 
Meantime,  Zoebeck  was  running  from  one  to 
the  other,  wringing  his  hands  and  sweating  and 
crying  out  that  costs  was  mounting  up  and  to 
keep  the  troupe  waiting  a  day  or  two,  'til  they 
could  send  for  a  new  stunt  man,  would  plumb 
ruin  the  company. 

The  boys  were  all  gathering  around  to  be  in 
on  the  calamity  except  Pink,  who  had  been 
keeping  aloof,  quiet  and  frosty  as  a  winter's 
night. 

Finally,  as  though  disgusted  and  wanting 
to  put  an  end  to  all  the  jabber,  he  eases 
himself  into  the  circle  around  Zoebeck  and 
pronounces,  quiet  like,  "I  reckon  Pinto  and  me 
might  make  that  leap,  if  called  on." 

The  manager  falls  right  on  Pink's  neck  and 
for  a  moment  I  was  afraid  he  was  going  to  kiss 
him,  which  would  have  produced  untoward 
results. 

Then,  as  they  are  rigging  Pink  up  in  the 
hero's  sombrero  and  chaps,  Lavina,  who  all 
morning  has  been  keeping  mighty  quiet  for  a 
woman,  butts  in. 

"Mr.  Zoebeck,"  she  inquires,  "don't  you 
think  the  All  Arts  Troupe  has  done  enough  to 
this  cowboy  without  taking  his  life  in  the 
bargain?  " 

"The  risk  is  negligible  for  so  fine  a  horseman 
as  Mr.  Hawkins,"  returns  Zoebeck,  "and  as  he 
has  money  involved  in  the  picture,  I  feel  I  am 
only  giving  him  an  opportunity  to  protect  his 
investment." 

"Since  when  was  money  sunk  in  All  Arts 
Films  an  investment? "  shoots  out  Lavina, 
and  I  could  hear  some  of  the  troupe  snickering 
back  of  their  hands. 

Anyway,  Zoebeck  is  silenced  for  the  time, 
and  Lavina  turns  on  Pink.  "Look  here,  Simple 
Simon,"  she  says,  "there  never  has  been  and 
there  never  will  be  another  one  like  you.  All 
the  more  reason  why  I  am  not  going  to  stand 
by  and  witness  the  type  become  extinct.  If 
you  weren't  such  an  idiot,  you'd  realize  that 
picture  stunts  are  contrived  for  stunters — 
specialists,  who  have  not  only  spent  all  their 
lives  learning  how  to  ride  horses,  but  also  to 
fall  off  'em  without  getting  hurt." 

"I  don't  aim  to  fall  off,"  Pink  bridles. 

"Listen,  Bozo!  You'll  fall  because  your 
horse  will  fall.  An  animal  can't  jump  without 
a  decent  place  to  jump  from  and  where's  one  on 
that  gravelly  cliff,  I'd  like  to  know?" 

"But  my  Pinto's  got  spider  feet." 

"And  you've  got  a  gnat's  brain!" 

HpHE  cowboy  swings  up  in  his  saddle  and 
■*-  would  have  made  off,  but  Lavina  anchors 
herself  to  the  Pinto's  bridle  and  looks  up  at 
Pink  more  earnest  than  I'd  ever  seen  her  be- 
fore. 

"Say,  Big  Boy,  will  you  tell  me  just  one 
thing?  Are  you  set  on  this  neck  breaking 
simply  because  you're  sort  of  low  and  desperate 
over  that  Vilma  woman?"  Then,  as  Pink 
makes  no  answer — "  Because  if  you  are,  I  want 
to  tell  you  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  that 
girl's  not  worth  it,  and  what's  more,  I'm  going 
to  spill  the  whole  truth  about  her — " 

"I  don't  want  to  hear  nothing  about  her 
from  you,"  interrupts  Pink.  "She's  been  my 
ideal  woman  and  she'll  always  be  my  ideal 
woman,  but  she  hasn't  got  anything  more  to  do 
with  my  making  this  leap  than  you  have.    I've 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


123 


got  five  hundred  bucks  pledged  in  this  picture 
and  I'm  doing  this  stunt  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
saving  'em." 

Lavina  drops  the  Pinto's  rein  like  it  was  a 
live  snake. 

"Well,"  she  gasps,  "you're  nothing  if  not 
practical.  Go  ahead,  break  your  neck  if  you 
want  to.  I'd  almost  wish  you  would,  if  I 
wasn't  afraid  of  your  horse  getting  hurt." 

With  that  Pink  gallops  off  and  Lavina, 
aided  by  three  prop  boys,  starts  scrambling 
across  the  arroyo  where  she's  to  do  her  root 
hanging. 

THE  Pinto  starts  out  nobly,  squatting  back 
on  his  haunches  like  a  dog  in  front  of  a  fire, 
while  Pink's  long  legs  dangle  in  the  dirt  on  each 
side,  enabling  him  to  assist  in  the  braking. 

They  must  have  slid  that  way  for  thirty  feet  in 
a  line  that  couldn't  have  been  more  straight  if 
it  had  been  drawn  by  a  ruler.  Then  they  come 
to  the  ledge  where  I  know  Pink's  future  is  going 
to  be  decided.  That  is,  whether  he's  going  to 
have  one  or  not. 

As  the  Pinto  is  gathering  himself  for  the 
leap,  a  slide  of  pebbles  dislodges  under  his  hind 
feet,  but  as  he  has  no  place  else  to  go  except 
forward,  he  takes  off  anyway  on  what  can't  be 
more  than  a  scrag  of  coffee  fern.  At  that,  I 
don't  know  whether  it  was  the  horse's  strength 
or  the  whoop  Pink  lets  out  that  carries  'em 
over. 

Anyway,  a  second  later,  they're  up  the  other 
side  of  the  ditch  with  Lavina  in  Pink's  arms  as 
per  schedule.  She  holds  him  tight  and  starts 
kissing  him,  which  is  part  of  the  picture,  and 
after  a  moment,  he  goes  to  kissing  her  back, 
which  isn't. 

"Cut!"  screams  the  director.  "Cut!"  And 
the  cameras  stop  grinding. 

"Cut  it  out!"  I  seconds,  for  to  witness  such 
violence  of  affection  was  embarrassing,  even 
across  an  arroyo. 

Late  that  evening,  when  Zoebeck  was  herd- 
ing his  troupe  into  the  bus  so  as  to  save  another 
day's  board,  I  noticed  that  Lavina  seemed  to 
be  missing. 

I  was  just  wondering,  when  the  manager 
comes  up  and  hands  me  five  hundred  bucks, 
which  he  says  was  left  for  him  by  Pink,  and 
shows  me  a  letter  from  Lavina,  that  runs 
something  like  this: 

Dear  Mr.  Zoebeck: 

Pink  and  I  are  just  leaving  for  Agua 
Caliente  to  get  married. 

As  the  picture  is  finished,  I  feel  I  owe 
you  nothing.  However,  you  owe  me  five 
days'  salary,  which  you  can  send — care 
of  U.  S.  Grant  Hotel,  San  Diego,  but 
probably  won't. 

Pink  and  I  are  going  to  spend  our 
honeymoon  on  his  parents'  ranch  near 
Amarillo,  Texas.  It  seems  they  struck  oil 
down  there  and  Pink  hasn't  been  home  for 
three  years  for  fear  the  derricks  would 
interfere  with  his  riding.  I  think  that's 
silly. 

Goodbye  to  all  the  company,  including 
Vilma. 


Yours, 


Lavina. 


'""THERE'S    a    girl    who's    going    to    get 

*•  along,"  says  Zoebeck. 

"That's  evident,"  I  agrees,  "but  how  about 
when  Pink  finds  out  her  deception  regarding 
Vilma?" 

"He  won't  ever  find  out.  Lavina's  too 
smart  to  permit  that." 

"But  if  he  doesn't  find  it  out,"  I  asks,  "won't 
he  always  have  a  secret  hankering,  think- 
ing that  Vilma  was  his  ideal  woman  and 
Lavina  came  to  him  as  second  best?" 

"Exactly,"  accords  Zoebeck,  "but  you  don't 
understand  psychology.  I  do,  and  that's 
what  makes  me  a  picture  producer. 

"Now,  every  man's  got  to  have  at  least  two 
women  in  his  life  and  Lavina's  smart  enough 
to  know  it. 

"And  what  a  break  that  girl's  got,  having  a 
rival  who's  really  herself!" 


ARE  YOUR  LIPS 
WORTH  5  CENTS? 


—five  cents  extra?  Then     \ 
buy  Marlboros  —  Ameri 
ca's  Finest  Cigarette. 
Why  take   chances  on 
any  cheap  cigarette? 
Marlboros   are  machine 


packed,  tips  down!  No 
fingers,notevenyourown, 
can  soil  their  freshness. 
Ivory  Tips  are  insurance 
against  infection  of  chap- 


ped or  roughened  lips. 

MARLBORO 

.mulca's  MmsX  t\a< 


MAI 

PLAIN*.  IVORY  Tip&Jo\ 

1       il 


rait 


ifi 


-^ftXto^, 


FOR  YOUR  SKIN 


TRY 


LABLACHE 

Face   Po wd er 

You  will  love  its  delicacy;  its  clinging-ness;  its  perfume. 

FOR    OVER    TWENTY    YEARS 
Readers    of    Photoplay     have    recog- 
nized its   accepted  standard  of   quality 

Send  for  FREE  sample  to  Ben  Levy  Co.,  125  Kingston  St..  Boston, Mass. 


LOVE  CHARM 

French  PERFUME 

Perfume  brings  pe- 
culiar and  subtle  psychological  reactions  on  the 
human  emotions.  The  enchantresses  of  old  — 
Cleopatra  —  DuBarry — understood  this  magic 
power.  Stars  of  screenland  are  inspired  by  real- 
istic odeurs.  Certainly  a  man's  idea  of  a  woman's 
charm  may  easily  be  changed  with  the  proper 
perfume.  That  Love  Charm  is  such  we  ask  you  to 
prove  to  yourself.  Send  10c  for  sample  vial.  Love 
Charm  Co.,  Dept.  10S-J,  585  Kingsland,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


STOPS  PAIN  IN 

CORNS 


One  drop  does  it  immediately. 

TOUCH  the  most  painful  corn  with 
this  amazing  liquid.  Acts  like  an 
anaesthetic.  In  three  seconds  pain  is 
deadened.  You  wear  tight  shoes,  dance, 
walk  again  in  comfort! 

No  cutting — that  is  dangerous.    This 


way  loosens  it.   Soon  you  peel  the 

whole  corn  off  with  your  fingers. 

Doctors  approve  it  as  safe.    Millions 

employ  it  to  gain  quick  relief.  There  is 

no  other  like  it. 

Money  back  if  not  delighted. 

"PFTC       IT"      World's 
W  Ei  I  9  ■  I    I        Fastest  Way 


124 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


Freckles 

VANISH    LIKE    MAGIC 


REMOVE  those  embarrassing  freckles. 


velvety  soft,  crystal  clear  complexion. 
You  can  —  -with  Stillman's  Freckle 
Cream.  It  bleaches  them  out  while 
you  sleep.  Done  so  quickly  and  easily 
— secretly  too.  The  first  jar  proves  its 
magic   worth.     At  all   drug  stores, 

St  ill  mans 

Freckle  Cream 

Removes  Freckles — Whitens  Sk 


m 


IL 


The   Stillman   Company, 
Aurora,  III.,  U.  S.  A. 
84   Beauty     Dept.,    send    free 
booklet.    Tells    why    you    have 
freckles — how  to  remove  them. 


I 
I 

J 


uraraiura 


oppoitunities  in  this  fascin- 
ating, uncrowded  profession,  right 
now !  Learn  to  direct  plays,  page- 
ants,  musical  shows,  movies,  radio 
dramas  —  at  home —  by  mail.'  A 
complete  course — backed  by  12  yrs. 
experience.     Endorsed  by  leaders. 

Cash  in  on  your  talent !  Write 
today  for  book  —  "A  Brilliant 
Future  in  Play 
Directing  " — Fret. 
Drama  Directors  Inst. 
102  Plymouth  BIdg. 
Des    Moines,   Iowa 


BUNIONS  SEE 

PEDODYNE,  the  new  scientific  solvent  process  stops  the 
torturing  pain  of  the  most  sensitive  bunion  almost  instantly 
and  reduces  the  large,  disfiguring  growth  so  quickly  you'll 
soon  wear  smaller,  trimmer  shoes  with  ease  and  comfort. 

Make  This  Test  and  Prove  It ! 

Just  write  and  say*'l  want  to  try  PEDODYNE"andprove 

the  quick,  sure,  amazing  results.  Tliereare  no  obligations. 

KAY  LABORATORIES,  Dept.  778-K 

180    NORTH    WICKER    DRIVE  .  -  CHICAGO,    ILLINOIS 


Help  Wanted 

We  require  the  services  of  an  ambitious  person  to 
do  some  pleasant,  dignified  work  right  in  your  own 
locality.  The  pay  is  exceptionally  large.  No  previous 
experience  is  required,  as  all  that  is  necessary  is  a 
willingness  on  your  part  to  carry  out  our  instructions. 

If  you  are  now  employed,  we  can  use  your  spare 
time  in  a  way  that  will  not  interfere  with  your  pres- 
ent employment — yet  pay  you  well  for  your  time. 

If  you  are  making  less  than  $150  a  month,  my  of- 
fer will  appeal  to  you.  Your  spare  time  will  pay  you 
well — full  time  will  bring  you  a  handsome  income. 

It  costs  nothing  to  investigate.  Write  me  today  and 
I  will  send  you  lull  particulars  by  return  mail  and 
place  the  facts  before  you  so  that  you  can  decide  for 
yourself. 

ALBERT  MILLS.   Employment  Mgr., 
7751    Monmouth   Ave.,  Cincinnati,   Ohio 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FK01I  PAGE  14  ] 


*■  LONELY  WIVES— Pathe.— Edward  Everett 
Horton  great,  in  a  side-splitting  farce.  Patsy 
Ruth  Miller,  Esther  Ralston  and  Laura  La  Plante 
are  the  girls  involved.     (April) 

LOVE  HABIT,  THE— British  International. — 
British  conception  of  a  French  bedroom  farce.  Very 
heavy.     (April) 

LOVE  KISS,  THE— Celebrity  Productions.— A 
nice  little  college  comedy  with  plenty  of  romance 
and  laughter.     (March) 

LOVER  COME  BACK— Columbia.— Betty  Bron- 
son  changing  her  type  with  rather  sorry  results.  (A  ug.) 

MAD  GENIUS,  THE— Warners.— Magnificently 
produced  and  photographed,  but  John  Barrymore's 
artistry  is  so  perfect  in  an  unsympathetic  role  that  the 
story  leaves  a  bad  taste.     (July) 

MAD  PARADE,  THE— Liberty  Productions  — 
The  woman's  side  of  the  war  done  brilliantly  by  an 
all-feminine  cast.     (July) 

•  MALTESE  FALCON,  THE  —  Warners.  — 
Gripping  mystery  story  from  the  novel  by  the 
same  name.  The  sleek  Ricardo  Cortez  plays  the 
demon  detective  superbly  and  Bebe  Daniels  does  ex- 
cellent work.     Don't  miss  it.     (June) 

MAN  FROM  CHICAGO,  THE— Elstree  Pro- 
ductions.— The  British  go  hay-wire  on  this  story  of 
Chicago  gangsters  and  their  ladies.  Skip  this  one. 
(March) 

MAN  IN  POSSESSION,  THE—  M-G-M  — 
Robert  Montgomery  in  a  spicy  comedy  full  of  situa- 
tions and  sparkling  lines.     Amusing.     (Aug.) 

MAN  OF  THE  WORLD— Paramount.— Good 
picture;  not  much  action  but  plenty  of  drama  and  a 
great  performance  by  William  Powell.  Carole  Lom- 
bard is  the  lovely  heroine.    (May) 

MAN  WHO  CAME  BACK,  THE— Fox.— Farrell 
and  Gaynor  sink  to  the  depths,  but  love  reforms 
them.  Not  a  "7th  Heaven"  but  worth  seeing. 
(March) 

MANY  A  SLIP — Universal. — Joan  Bennett  and 
Lew  Ayres  in  a  wise-cracking  dialogue  comedy.  You 
may,  but  you  probably  won't,  like  it.     (March) 

MEET  THE  WIFE— Columbia.— Lew  Cody  and 
Laura  La  Plante  excellent  in  a  hilarious  farce  taken 
from  the  old  stage  play.     Plenty  of  laughs.     (June) 

MEN  CALL  IT  LOVE— M-G-M.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Among  the  Married.")  Sophisticated 
story  of  married  life  in  the  country  club  set.  Adolphe 
Menjou  excellent.  Norman  Foster  and  Leila  Hyams 
good  as  the  young  lovers.  Not  for  the  children.  (A  pril) 

MEN  ON  CALL — Fox. — Edmund  Lowe  wastes 
his  time  and  talents  in  a  bad  story.     (March) 

MIDNIGHT  SPECIAL,  THE— Chesterfield  Prod. 
— Nothing  new,  but  plenty  of  excitement.  Good  for 
the  kids.     (April) 

MILLIE  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Helen  Twelvetrees 
splendid  in  this  tense  drama.  Enough  tears  and 
chuckles  to  make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March) 

•  MILLIONAIRE,  THE— Warners.— George 
Arliss — need  we  say  more?  This  time  he  plays 
a  wealthy  American  automobile  manufacturer.  Eva- 
lyn  Knapp  is  the  attractive  daughter  and  David 
Manners,  the  business  partner.    See  it.    (May) 

•  MIRACLE  WOMAN,  THE— Columbia.— 
A  well  staged,  directed,  and  photographed 
picture  with  Barbara  Stanwyck  doing  her  best  work 
as  a  female  evangelist.     (Aug.) 

MONSTERS  OF  THE  DEEP— Nat.  Spitzer 
Prod. — Fishing  adventures  in  Magdalena  Bay,  off  the 
Mexican  coast,  where  mammoth  fish  abound.  For 
fish  fans.     (July) 

MR.  LEMON  OF  ORANGE— Fox.— El  Brendel, 

starring,  in  some  mistaken  identity  stuff.  Riotously 
funny  in  spots,  and  Fifi  Dorsay  helps  a  lot.      (May) 

NEVER  THE  TWAIN  SHALL  MEET— M-G-M. 

— Lavishly  produced  remake  of  the  old  silent,  but 
not  nearly  so  good.  Leslie  Howard  great  in  some 
scenes.     (June) 

NEWLY  RICH— See  FORBIDDEN  ADVEN- 
TURE. 

NIGHT  ANGEL,  THE— Paramount.— A  bad 
display  for  the  talents  of  Nancy  Carroll  and  Fredric 
March.    (A  ug.) 


NIGHT  BIRDS  —  British  International.  — 
Mystery  melodrama,  with  much  a-do  over  a  killing. 
Not  so  bad.     (March) 

•  NIGHT  NURSE— Warners.— Drag  out  your 
pet  adjectives,  go  see  this  and  use  'em.  It's 
great.  Barbara  Stanwyck,  Ben  Lyon  and  a  grand 
cast.    (.4  ug.) 

NO  LIMIT — Paramount. — Clara  Bow  as  a  flapper, 
an  usherette  and  a  gangster's  moll,  and  wearing 
some  amazing  clothes.  You  may  be  amused. 
(March) 

NOT  EXACTLY  GENTLEMEN— Fox.— Three 
men's  battles  for  a  map,  a  girl  (Fay  Wray)  and 
riches.  Top-notch  entertainment.  Victor  McLaglen, 
Lew  Cody  and  Eddie  Gribbon  share  acting  honors. 
{April) 

ONCE  A  SINNER— Fox.— the  oldest  type  of 
triangle  story.  The  really  fine  performances  of 
Dorothy  Mackaill,  Joel  McCrea  and  John  Halliday 
make  it  well  worth  seeing.     (March) 

PAGLIACCI— Audio  Cinema  Prod.— Bad  grand 
opera  poorly  transferred  to  the  screen.    (May) 

PAINTED  DESERT,  THE— Pathe.— A  Western 
which  you'll  like.  Bill  Boyd  is  the  virile  hero  and 
Helen  Twelvetrees  the  girl.     (March) 

•  PARLOR,  BEDROOM  AND  BATH— 
M-G-M. — It's  a  howl,  this  farce.  Buster  Kea- 
ton  and  Charlotte  Greenwood  race  for  honors.  As  a 
heavy  lover,  Buster  is  amazing.     (April) 

PARTY  HUSBAND— First  National.— Dorothy 
Mackaill  and  James  Rennie  work  hard  as  the  newly- 
weds,  but  the  story  is  weak.     (June) 

•  PRODIGAL,  THE  —  M-G-M.  —  (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "The  Southerner")  —  Lawrence 
Tibbett  in  a  gay,  charming  comedy — and  how  he  sings! 
Esther  Ralston,  too,  and  more  beautiful  than  ever. 
(March) 

PUBLIC  ENEMY,  THE— Warners— A  gangster 
picture  that  is  lining  the  thrill-seekers  up  at  the  box- 
office.     (June) 

•  QUICK  M ILLIONS  —  Fox.  —  Another  excel- 
lent gangster  picture  if  you  go  for  them.  Spen- 
cer Tracy  is  the  leader  of  the  racketeers,  and  you'll 
like  Sally  Eilers.     (June) 

REBOUND— RKO-Pathe.— Not  in  the  big  amuse- 
ment class  but  worth  seeing.  Ina  Claire  and  Robert 
Ames.    (Aug.) 

RECKLESS  HOUR,  THE— First  National.— An 
old  story  with  a  few  new  twists.  Dorothy  Mackaill 
and  a  good  cast.    Just  fair.     (A  ug.) 

•  RESURRECTION— Universal.— Talkie  ver- 
sion of  the  old  tale  is  a  triumph  for  Lupe 
Velez.  She's  all  fire,  beauty  and  sincerity.  Well 
directed  and  John  Boles  sings  nicely.     (March) 

RIDER  OF  THE  PLAINS,  A— Syndicate- 
Grand  old  Western  full  of  hokum,  and  a  happy, 
happy  ending.     (May) 

RIDIN'  FOOL,  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Great 
little  Western.  Will  furnish  the  kids  with  plenty  of 
thrills.     (April) 

ROAD  TO  SINGAPORE,  THE— M-G-M— (Re-  ' 

viewed  under  the  title  "Cheri  Bibi.")  Jack  Gilbert 
in  an  entertaining  drama.  Lots  of  tragedy,  but  a 
happy  ending  and  Leila  Hyams  as  the  heroine.  Well 
worth  seeing.     (June) 

•  SEAS  BENEATH— Fox.— Dashing  adventure 
story  of  submarines  during  the  war.  George 
O'Brien  does  a  grand  job.  All  the  family  will  like 
it.     (March) 

SECOND  HONEYMOON,  THE— Continental. 
— Farce  comedy  of  domestic  felicity  with  Josephine 
Dunn  and  Edward  Earle.     Entertaining.     (March) 

•  SECRET  SIX,  THE— M-G-M.— Still  another 
gang  story  but  with  more  humor.  Splendid 
cast,  includes  Wallace  Beery,  Lewis  Stone,  Clark 
Gable,  Johnny  Mack  Brown  and  Jean  Harlow.  (June) 

•  SEED — Universal. — Interesting  and  realistic 
story  based  on  Charles  Norris'  novel.  John 
Boles  doesn't  sing  but  his  acting  is  superb.  Lois 
Wilson  and  Genevieve  Tobin  both  excellent.  Don't 
miss  it.     (June) 

•  SHE-WOLF,  THE— Liberty  Prod.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Mother's  Millions")— Humor, 
pathos,  bright  dialogue  and  splendid  acting  make 
this  a  delightfully  entertaining  story.  May  Robson 
is  the  mother.     (April) 

SHIPMATES— M-G-M.— Plenty  of  pep  and  ac- 
tion, plus  the  United  States  Navy,  make  this  a  veri- 
table gale  of  laughter  from  beginning  to  end.  Robert 
Montgomery  heads  the  cast.     (June) 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


125 


SHIPS  OF  HATE— Trem  Carr  —  Murder  and 
gruesomeness  on  shipboard.  Just  fair.  Don't  pass 
up  game  a  of  bridge  for  it.     (Aug.) 


SINGLE  SIN.  THE— Tiffany  Prod— Nothing 
new,  but  splendidly  handled.  Kay  Johnson  does  some 
fine  acting.  Bert  Lytell,  Mathew  Betz  and  Paul 
Hurst  lend  good  support.     (April) 

6  CYLINDER  LOVE— Fox.— An  amusing  farce 
with  a  pretty  obvious  plot.     U"ly) 

•  SKIPPY— Paramount.— Jackie  Cooper  as 
Skippy,  and  Bobby  Coogan  as  Sooky  entirely 
lovable  in  this  grand  picture  based  on  Percy  Crosby's 
famous  comic  strip.  Young  and  old  alike  will  love  it. 
(May) 

SKY  RAIDERS,  THE— Columbia.— Gangsters  in 
the  air!  Thrilling  stuff  and  good  entertainment. 
(July) 

•     SMART  MONEY— Warners.— Moves  as  fast 
as  the   money  on   the   gambling   tables   in   it. 
Plenty  of  laughs  and  excitement.     (July) 

•  SMILING  LIEUTENANT,  THE  —  Para- 
mount.— One  of  the  breeziest  and  most  tuneful 
entertainments  in  a  long  time.  Chevalier  at  his  best, 
under  Lubitsch  direction.     Ste  it.     (July) 

SON  OF  INDIA— M-G-M  —  A  fairy-tale  sort  of 
thing  with  Ramon  Novarro  as  Prince  Charming. 
If  you  like  Oriental  romance,  this  is  it  I     (Aug.) 

•     SQUAW      MAN,      THE— M-G-M— A      new 
version  of  a   grand   old   story.      See   it  by  all 
means.     Warner  Baxter  and  Lupe  Velez.     (Aug.) 

•  STEPPING  OUT  —  M-G-M—  Charlotte 
Greenwood,  Leila  Hyams,  Reg.  Denny,  Cliff 
Edwards,  Merna  Kennedy,  Harry  Stubbs  and  Lilian 
Bond  make  this  light  comedy  one  continual  laugh. 
See  it.     (May) 

STOLEN  HEAVEN— Paramount.— Slow,  unreal 
story.  Nancy  Carroll  and  Phillips  Holmes  fine  in  the 
romantic  moments.     (April) 

•  STRANGERS  MAY  KISS— M-G-M— Norma 
Shearer,  the  last  word  in  sophistication  and 
beautifully  gowned  in  a  vivid  drama  of  modern  life  by 
the  same  author  as  "The  Divorcee."  To  be  seen. 
(May) 

SUBWAY  EXPRESS— Columbia.— Jack  Holt  in 
a  thrilling  mystery  of  the  stage  that  lost  its  kick  in  the 
movie  version.    (July) 

SUNRISE  TRAIL,  THE— Tiffany  Productions. 
— A  Western  with  too  much  talking  and  not  enough 
action.     (March) 

SVENGALI  —  Warners.  — Well  worth  seeing  for 
John  Barrymore's  superb  performance  in  the  title 
role.  The  story  is  rather  gruesome.  Don't  take  the 
children.     (June) 

SWANEE  RIVER— Sono  Art-World  Wide  — 
Thelma  Todd  and  Grant  Withers  try.  but  just  can't 
save  this  melodrama  from  being  anything  but  ordi- 
nary.   (May) 

SWEEPSTAKES— RKO-Pathe.—  Some  romance, 
thrills  and  fast  lines  in  a  race-track  yarn.  Quillan 
and  Gleason  take  honors.     (Aug.) 

•  TABU — Paramount. — A  poem  of  a  picture  laid 
in  the  South  Seas,  with  an  all-native  cast, 
beautifully  directed  by  the  late  F.  W.  Murnau.  Fine 
synchronized  musical  score.     (May) 

TAILOR  MADE  MAN,  A— M-G-M.— The  jaunty 
and  self-confident  Bill  Haines  plays  this  old  Charlie 
Ray  silent  with  a  new  restraint  that  is  delightful. 
You'll  laugh  and  like  it.     (May) 

TARNISHED  LADY— Paramount.— Introducing 
Tallulah  Bankhead,  from  Alabama  and  the  London 
stage,  in  a  heavy  love  diama.  Clive  Brook  is  the  lead- 
ing man.     (June) 

TEXAS  RANGER,  THE— Columbia.— Carmelita 
Geraghty  is  the  gal,  Buck  Jones  the  hero.     (July) 

3  LOST  GIRLS— Fox.— Loretta  Young,  Joan 
Marsh  and  Joyce  Compton  are  the  three  little  girls 
who  come  to  the  big  city.  Lew  Cody  good  as  the 
racketeer  and  John  Wayne  not  so  good.    (April) 

THREE  LOVES— Terra.— Marlene  Dietrich  is 
the  only  reason  for  seeing  this  three-year-old  Ger- 
man silent.    (Aug.) 

THREE  WHO  LOVED— Radio  Pictures.— Ex- 
cellent acting  by  Betty  Compson  and  Conrad  Nagel 
in  a  production  that  suffers  from  too  much  story. 
(Aug.) 


TOO  MANY  COOKS  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Bert 
Wheeler's  first  starring  picture,  minus  Mr.  Woolsey. 
Plenty  of  laughs,  some  lumps  in  the  throat  and  Doro- 
thy Lee  as  the  heart  appeal.     (June) 

•  TRADER  HORN— M-G-M.— Harry  Cany 
magnificent  as  Trader  Horn.  Story  of  the 
African  jungle,  full  of  the  tensest  drama  and  per- 
fection in  photography.      (March) 

TRANSGRESSION— Radio  Pictures.— The  Bame 
old  angle  of  the  eternal  triangle.  Kay  Francis  wears 
swell  clothes.     (Aug.) 

TRAPPED — Big  Four. — Fights,  songs,  gangsters, 
night  clubs,  murders,  chases,  plus  a  confused  plot 
(June) 

TRAVELING  HUSBANDS— Radio  Pictures. 
Risque'  but  not  objectionably  so.  Top-notch  acting, 
with  Evelyn  Brent  in  the  lead.    (July) 

TWO-GUN  MAN,  THE— Tiffany.— A  Western  in 
i  '  1  swashbuckling  style,  nothing  new  but  good  enter- 
tainment.    Ken  Maynard  and  horsel     (Aug.) 

UNFAITHFUL— Paramount.— Ruth   Chatterton, 

a  society  matron  who  can't  divorce  her  Faithle88  hus- 
band (Paul  Cavanaugh)  without  involving  her,  own 
sister-in-law,  and  so  goes  to  the  dogs.  Good  for  the 
Chatterton  fans.     (May) 

UP  FOR  MURDER— Universal.— f Reviewed  un- 
der the  title  "Fires  of  Youth.")  Talkie  version  of 
the  old  silent,  "Man,  Woman  and  Sin."  Lew  Ayres 
and  Genevieve  Tobin  struggle  through.  Pretty  badly 
worn  plot.     (April) 

UPPER  UNDERWORLD  —  First  National.  — 
Different  from  the  average  racketeering  picture  and 
bound  to  make  you  think.     (July) 

UP  POPS  THE  DEVIL— Paramount— Young 
love  and  its  struggles  neatly  handled  by  Norman 
Foster,  as  a  young  author,  and  his  wife,  played  by 
Carole    Lombard.      Sprightly    dialogue       (July) 

•  VICE  SQUAD,  THE— Paramount.— Besides 
being  something  that  will  keep  you  interested, 
this  is  a  picture  you'll  think  about.  Paul  Lukas.  Kay 
Francis  and  Helen  Johnson  are  excellent.     (July) 

VIKING,  THE— Varick  Frissell  Production.— A 
picture  of  the  boat  that  met  Arctic  tragedy.  Good 
photography.    (Aug.) 

VIRTUOUS  HUSBAND,  THE— Universal.— One 

of  those  over-sexed  things.  Starts  off  to  be  a  howl 
and  then  goes  serious  and  ends  by  being  pretty  bad. 
(June) 

WAITING  AT  THE  CHURCH— Radio  Pictures. 
— An  amusing  story  with  lovely  Technicolor  effects. 
(July) 

WHITE  SHOULDERS— Radio  Pictures.— Rex 
Beach's  dramatic  story  makes  an  interesting  picture. 
Jack  Holt.  Mary  Astor  and  Ricardo  Cortez  form  the 
triangle.     (July) 

WHITE  THUNDER.— The  eternal  triangle  story 
is  secondary  to  the  magnificent  photography  show- 
ing the  terrifying  vast  iciness  of  Newfoundland 
(March) 

WILD  WEST  WHOOPEE— Cosmo.— Jack  Perrin 
in  a  conventional  Western  saved  by  a  thrilling  rodeo 
sequence  and  the  noble  work  of  his  horse,  Starlight. 
Josephine  Hill  is  the  heroine.     (May) 

WOMAN  BETWEEN,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— 
Heavy  drama  with  lots  of  emotion  and  a  song  from 
Lily  Damita.  Miriam  Seegar  is  the  one  bright  spot. 
(June) 

WOMAN  OF  EXPERIENCE,  A— RKO-Pathe.— 
Only  average  entertainment,  in  spite  of  a  cast  which 
does  its  best.  Helen  Twelvetrees.  ZaSu  Pitts  and 
Lew  Cody.     (July) 

WOMEN  LOVE  ONCE— Paramount.— Produc- 
ers wasted  their  time  and  that  of  Eleanor  Boardman 
and  Paul  Lukas  on  this  one.    (Aug.) 

WOMEN  OF  ALL  NATIONS  — Fox.— Edmund 
Lowe  and  Victor  McLaglen  as  Quirt  and  Flagg  of 
"What  Price  Glory"  fame,  continue  their  adventures. 
Good,  rough  entertainment,  but  not  a  Sunday  school 
text.     (July) 

YOUNG  AS  YOU  FEEL— Fox.— Another  grand 
Will  Rogers'  film,  funny  enough  to  make  you  forget  a 
toothache.     (July) 

•  YOUNG  DONOVAN'S  KID— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Good.  From  Rex  Beach's  story  "Big 
Brother."  Little  Jackie  Cooper  practically  steals  the 
show  in  spite  of  Dix's  excellent  work.     (July) 

YOUNG  SINNERS— Fox— The  old  story  of 
modern  kids  in  a  jazz  and  cocktail  setting.  Thomas 
Mcighan  is  a  bright  spot,  Dorothy  Jordan  and  Hardie 
Albright  give  an  exhibition  of  couch  wrestling.    (July) 


'yming  wom  en 
no longer 'believe 
au  they are told 


■ 

They  wont  facts  from 
a  reliable  source 

THESE  days,  the  young  wife  is  not  con- 
tent with  hearsay.  She  wants  facts.  And 
thete  is  a  tellable  soutce  of  information  for 
clear-thinking  women.  It  is  a  booklet 
written  especially  for  them.  It  is  called 
"The  Newer  Knowledge  of  Feminine  Hv- 
giene."  It  is  the  easy  way  to  leatn  all  that 
can  be  leatned  on  the  subject. 

Beware  of  caustics  and  poisons 

Many  people  still  believe  that  caustic  and 
poisonous  antiseptics  are  necessary  for  that 
cleanly  practice  known  as  feminine  hygiene. 
But  the  medical  profession  does  not  endorse 
the  use  of  bichloride  of  mercury  and  the 
compounds  of  carbolic  acid. 
Before  the  coming  of  Zonite,  those  wete  the 
only  germicides  powerful  enough  to  be 
effective.  And  women  used  to  run  terrible 
risks.  They  were  not  fully  aware  how  great 
was  the  danger  of  mercurial  poisoning. 
Also,  normal  secretions  were  interfered 
with  and  ateas  of  scar  tissue  were  formed. 

Send  for  Zonite  booklet 
Zonite  provides  that  sutgical  cleanliness 
which  women  have  always  wanted.  It  is 
the  modern  antiseptic.  Non-caustic.  Kon- 
poisonous.  Yet  far  more  powerful  than  any  dilu- 
tion of  carbolic  acid  that  may  be  allowed  on  the 
body.  Send  for  the  booklet  that  gives  all  the 
facts  about  feminine  hygiene.  It  is  frankly 
wtitten,  and  honest.  Zonite  Products  Cor- 
poration, Chiysler  Bldg.,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

In  bottles  .30c.  60c.  $1 
Both  in  U.  S.  A.  and  Canada 

Zonite  has  remarkable  qualities  as  a  deodorant 

ZONITE  PRODUCTS  CORPORATION  I'll-   " 

Chrysler  Building,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  free  copy  of  the  booklet  or  booklets  checked 
below . 

^  The  Newer  Knowledge  of  Fcmimcc  Hygiene 

Q  Use  of  Aotiseptics  in  the  Home 

Name 

(PU*H  frir.i  Mm) 
AdJress . _ 

Ciry State.. 

(In  Canada:  389  St.  faul  St..  West,  Montreal) 


I  26 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


Safe,  sensible 

test  proves 
you  can  end 

GRAY 
__  HAIR 

You  take  no  risk  Mary  T.  Goldman's  way. 

Make  test  first  on  single  lock  snipped  from 

your  hair.  Comb  colorless  liquid  through 

graying  strands.   See  how  desired  color 

comes — black,  brown,  auburn 

or  blonde.   Hair  stays  soft  — 

easy  to  curl  or  wave.  Nothing 

to  rub  off  or  stain  clothing. 

Safe.  Easy.  Sensible.  Why  not 

try  it?  You  risk  nothing. 

VRW     Famous  Single  Lock 

*>**>****  Test  package  .  .  . 

Convince  yourself  at  our  expense. 

"MARY  T.  GOLDMAN " 

2417  Goldman  Bldg.,  St.  Paul.  Minn. 


Name. 


Street 

City State. 

,    Color  of  your  hair? 


t      ' 


He  Said  He'd 
Never  Marry! 

npHEN  he  met  this  girl.  She 
■*■  had  read  the  secrets  of 
"Fascinating  Womanhood," 
a  daring  new  book  which 
ehows  how  any  woman  can 
attract  men  by  using  the 
simple  laws  of  man's  psy- 
chology and  human  nature. 
Any  other  man  would  have 
been  equally  helpless  in  her 
hands.  You,  too,  can  have 
this  book;  you  too,  can 
en  j  oy  the  worship  and  admir- 
ation  of  men,  and  be  the 
radiant  bride  of  the  man  of 
your  choice.  Cut  out  this  ad :  write  your  name  and  ad- 
dress on  the  margin  and  mail  to  us  with  10  cents  and  a 
little  booklet  entitled  "Secrets  of  Fascinating  Woman- 
hood," giving  an  interesting  Bynopsis  of  the  revelations 
disclosed  in  "Fascinating  Womanhood,"  will  be  sent 
postpaid.  No  embarrassment — the  plain  wrapper  keeps 
your  secret.  Send  your  dime  today. 
THE  PSYCHOLOGY  PRESS  Dept.  4-J 

585  Kingsland  Ave.,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


Corns 


End  Corn  Pains 

instantly  with  Wizard  Ira- 
proved  Corn  Pads.  Cush- 
ioned, but  not  bulky.  Oh.so 
comfortable.  Treated  with 
mercurochrome  (HW&D). 
Safe.  10c  and  35c  package. 
FREE  sample.  Write  for 
it.  Send  your  dealer's  name 
and  address. 
Wizard  Co.  1636  Locust.  St  Louis  Mo. 


Wizard  Corn  Pads 


BROWNIE  NAME  CARDS 

50  Perfect  Name  Cora's  with 

Qenuine  Leather  Case  50c 


IZE  card  I '/.  x  2%.  Elegant  black  lea- 
case.  Name  in  Old  English 
(Vpc-  Price  complete  50c.  Send  stamps, 
coin  or  money  order.  Safiifaction 
guaranteed  or  money  refunded. 

Agtmtt  w«mr J 
MIDCET   CARD    SHOP.    INC. 
19  So.  Market  Square,     Hamsburg.  Pa. 


AGENTS!  BIG  PROFITS! 


SELL  THE  NEW  BOOK  EVERY  WOMAN  WANTS 

"How  to  6b  a  Successful  Hostess— What  Every  Woman 
Should    Know   About    Entertaining   and    Etiquette." 

Sond  Us  St  p*r  Copy.  Retails  for  S2.  Your  Profit  St 
225  Pages.  Tells  you  how  to  be  correct  and  popular  and 
how  to  entertain.  Should  be  in  every  home.  Excellent 
i  Christmas  gift  to  relatives  and  friends.  We  also  want 
agents  to  sell  our  beautiful  Christmas  Cards.  Send  50c  for 
a  boxed  assortment  which  retails  at  $1.00. 

GAINSBOROUGH  CO.  EXTSEKSft 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


•'ALIAS.  THE  BAD  MAN"— Tiffany  Prod  — 
From  the  story  by  Ford  Beebe.  Continuity  by  Earle 
Snell.  Directed  by  Phil  Rosen.  The  cast:  Ken  Neville, 
Ken  Maynard;  Mary  Warner,  Virginia  Brown  Faire; 
Ranee  Collins,  Frank  Mayo;  Mr.  Warner,  Robert 
Homans;  Simpson,  Irving  Bacon;  Black,  Charles 
King;  Clem  Neville,  Lafe  McKee;  The  Sheriff,  Ethan 
Allen. 

"BAD  GIRL" — Fox. — From  the  novel  by  Vina 
Delmar.  Continuity  by  Edwin  Burke.  Directed  by 
Frank  Borzage.  The  cast:  Dorothy  Haley,  Sally 
Eilers;  Eddie  Collins,  James  Dunn;  Edna  Driggs, 
Minna  Gombell;  Radio  Proprietor,  Frank  Darien;  Jim 
Haley,  William  Pawley. 

"BLACK  CAMEL,  THE"— Fox.— From  the 
story  by  Earl  Derr  Biggers.  Adapted  by  Hugh 
Stange.  Directed  by  Hamilton  MacFadden.  The 
cast:  Charlie  Chan,  Warner  Oland;  Julie,  Sally  Eilers; 
Tarneverro,  Bela  Lugosi;  Shelah  Fane,  Dorothy 
Revier;  Robert  Fyfe,  Victor  Varconi;  Jimmy  Brad- 
shaw,  Robert  Young;  Mac  Masters,  J.  M.  Kerrigan; 
Mrs.  Mac  Masters,  Mary  Gordon;  Anna,  Violet 
Dunn;  Alan  Jaynes,  William  Post;  Smith,  Murray 
Kinnell;  Native  Girl,  Rita  Rosell;  Kashimo,  Otto 
Yamaoka;  Jessop,  Dwight  Frye;  Ballou,  Richard 
Tucker;  Rita  Ballou,  Marjorie  White;  Von  Hart,  C. 
Henry  Gordon;  Chief  of  Police,  Robert  Homans. 

"  BOUGHT  " — Warners. — From  the  novel  "Jack- 
daws Strut"  by  Harriet  Henry.  Adapted  by  Charles 
Kenyon  and  Raymond  Griffith.  Directed  by  Archie 
Mayo.  The  cast:  Slephany  Dale,  Constance  Bennett; 
Nick  Amory,  Ben  Lyon;  Dave  Meyer,  Richard 
Bennett;  The  Mother,  Dorothy  Peterson;  Charles 
Carter,  Jr.,  Raymond  Milland;  Carter,  Sr.,  Arthur 
Stuart  Hull;  Natalie  Ransome,  Mae  Madison;  Mrs. 
Chauncey,  Maude  Eburne;  Mrs.  Sprig,  Clara 
Blandick. 

"BRAT.  THE" — Fox. — From  the  play  by  Maude 
Fulton.  Adapted  by  Sonya  Levien  and  S.  N. 
Behrman.  Directed  by  John  Ford.  The  cast:  The 
Brat,  Sally  O'Neil;  MacMillan  Forester,  Allan  Dine- 
hart;  Stephen  Forester,  Frank  Albertson;  Angela, 
Virginia  Cherrill;  Jane,  June  Collyer;  Timson, 
Farrell  MacDonald;  Mrs.  Forester,  Mary  Forbes;  The 
Bishop,  Albert  Gran;  Lena,  Louise  Mackintosh; 
Judge,  William  Collier,  Sr. ;  Housekeeper,  Margaret 
Mann. 

"CAUGHT" — Paramount. — From  the  story  by 
Agnes  Brand  Leahy  and  Keene  Thompson.  Directed 
by  Edward  Sloman.  The  cast:  Lieut.  Tom  Colton, 
Richard  Arlen;  Calamity  Jane,  Louise  Dresser;  Kate 
Winslow,  Frances  Dee;  Jard  Harmon,  Tom  Kennedy; 
Curly  Braydon,  Martin  Burton;  Goldie,  Marcia 
Manners;  Sergt.  IVeems,  Sid  Saylor;  McNeill,  Guy 
Oliver;  Haverstraw,  E.  J.  LeSaint;  Bradford,  Charles 
E.  French. 

"EAST  OF  BORNEO"— Universal.— From  the 
story  by  Dale  Van  Every.  Directed  by  George 
Melford.  The  cast:  Linda  Randolph,  Rose  Hobart; 
Dr.  Allan  Clark,  Charles  Bickford;  Prince  Hashin, 
Rajah  of  Marudu,  Georges  Renavent;  Niela,  Lupita 
Tovar;  Osman,  Noble  Johnson. 

"ENEMIES  OF  THE  LAW"— Regal  Prod.— 
Directed  by  Lawrence  C.  Windom.  The  cast: 
Florence  Vinton,  Mary  Nolan;  Larry  Marsh,  Johnny 
Walker;  Eddie  Swan,  Lou  Tellegen;  Jack,  Harold 
Healy;  Lefty,  Alan  Brooks;  Tony  Calello,  Dewey 
Robinson;  The  Big  Shot,  John  Dunsmuir;  Joey 
Regan,  Danny  Hardin;  Babe  Ricardo,  Bert  West; 
Blackie,  Gordon  Westcott;  Booker  T,  Doe  Doe  Green. 

"FIGHTING  SHERIFF,  THE"— Columbia.— 
From  the  story  by  Stuart  Anthony.  Continuity  by 
Stuart  Anthony.  Directed  by  Louis  King.  The  cast: 
Bob  Terry,  Buck  Jones;  Mary  Smith,  Loretta  Sayers; 
Flash  Halloway,  Robert  Ellis;  Calice,  Harlan  E. 
Knight;  Jack  Smith,  Paul  Fix;  Florabell,  Lillian 
Worth;  Tiana,  Nena  Quartaro;  Curfew,  Clarence 
Muse;  Aunl  Sally,  Lillian  Leighton;  Sam,  Tom  Bay. 

"FIRST  AID" — Sono  Art. — From  the  story  by 
Michael  L.  Simmons.  Directed  by  Stuart  Paton. 
The  cast:  Ralph  Ingram,  Grant  Withers;  Lil,  Marjorie 
Beebe;  Mike  Rush,  Wheeler  Oakman;  Buddy,  Donald 
Keith;  Chief  of  Police,  William  Desmond;  Whitey, 
Paul  Panzer;  Swank,  George  Cheeseborough. 

"FIVE  STAR  FINAL" — First  National. — From 
the  story  by  Louis  Weitzenkorn.  Adapted  by  Robert 
Lord.  Directed  by  Mervyn  LeRoy.  The  cast: 
Randall.    Edward    G.    Robinson;    Jenny    Townsend, 


Marian  Marsh;  Nancy  Voorhees  Townsend,  Frances 
Starr;  Michael  Townsend,  H.  B.  Warner;  Phillip 
Weeks,  Anthony  Bushel);  Hinchecliffe.  Oscar  Apfel; 
Kitty  Carmody,  Ona  Munson;  Miss  Taylor,  Alene 
MacMahon;  Isopod,  Boris  Karloff;  Ziggie  Feinstein, 
George  E.  Stone;  Mrs.  Weeks,  Evelyn  Hall;  Mr. 
Weeks,  David  Torrence;  Miss  Edwards,  Gladys 
Lloyd;  Brannegan,  Robert  Elliott. 

"FULL  OF  NOTIONS"— Radio  Pictures.— 
From  the  story  by  Douglas  MacLean.  Screen  play  by 
Ralph  Spence.  Directed  by  William  Seiter.  The 
cast:  Tommy  Tanner,  Bert  Wheeler;  Egbert  Higgin- 
bolham,  Robert  Woolsey;  Peggy  Morion,  Dorothy  Lee; 
Mother  Tally,  Lucy  Beaumont;  Walters,  Jason 
Robards;  Chief  Morion,  DeWitt  Jennings;  Flint, 
Charles  Middleton;  Clarke,  Bill  Scott;  Miss  Loring, 
Nora  Cecil;  Miss  Newton,  Josephine  Whittall. 

"GREAT  LOVER,  THE"— M-G-M  —  From  the 
play  by  Leo  Ditrichstein  and  Frederick  and  Fanny 
Hatton.  Continuity  by  Gene  Markey  and  Edgar 
Allan  Woolf.  Directed  by  Harry  Beaumont.  The 
cat:  Paurel,  Adolphe  Menjou;  Diana,  Irene  Dunne; 
Sos,  awErnest  Torrence;  Carlo,  Neil  Hamilton; 
Potter,  aa^Baclanova;  Finny,  Cliff  Edwards;  Stapleton, 
Hale  Hamilton;  Rosco,  Roscoe  Ates;  Losseck,  Herman 
Bing;  Mme.  Neumann  Baumbach,  Else  Janssen. 

"GUILTY  HANDS"— M-G-M.— From  the  story 
by  Bayard  Veiller.  Directed  by  W.  S.  Van  Dyke. 
The  cast:  Richard  Grant,  Lionel  Barrymore;  Marjorie 
West,  Kay  Francis;  Barbara  Grant,  Madge  Evans; 
Tommy  Osgood,  William  Bakewell;  Rev.  Hastings,  C. 
Aubrey  Smith;  Aunl  Maggie,  Polly  Moran;  Gordon 
Rich,  Alan  Mowbray;  Spencer  Wilson,  Forrester 
Harvey;  H.  G.  Smith,  Charles  Crockett;  Harvey  Scott, 
Henry  Barrows. 

"HONEYMOON  LANE"— Sono  Art.— From 
the  story  by  Eddie  Dowling.  Directed  by  William  J. 
Craft.  The  cast:  Tim  Dugan,  Eddie  Dowling;  Mary 
Baggoll,  June  Collyer;  "Dynamite,"  Raymond 
Hatton;  Gerly  Murphy,  Ray  Dooley;  Tom  Baggotl, 
Noah  Beery;  Mother  Murphy,  Mary  Carr;  King  of 
Bulgravia,  Adolphe  Milar;  Paulino,  Major  Domo, 
Gene  Lewis;  Col.  Guslave,  Lloyd  Whitlock;  "Noisy," 
George  Kotsonaros;  Belly  Royce,  Corliss  Palmer. 

"I  LIKE  YOUR  NERVE"— First  National.— 
From  the  story  by  Roland  Pertwee.  Adapted  by 
Houston  Branch.  Directed  by  William  McGann. 
The  cast:  Larry,  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.;  Diane, 
Loretta  Young;  Clive  Latlimer,  Edmund  Breon; 
Pacheco,  Henry  Kolker;  Lesler,  Claud  Allister;  The 
Butler,  Ivan  Simpson;  The  Patron,  Paul  Porcasi; 
Franko,  Andre  Cheron;  Luigi,  Boris  Karloff;  The 
Colonel,  Henry  Bunston. 

"LASCA  OF  THE  RIO  GRANDE  "—Universal. 
— Based  on  the  poem  "Lasca"  by  Frank  Desprez. 
Story  by  Tom  Reed.  Screen  play  by  Randall  Faye. 
Directed  by  Edward  Laemmlc.  The  cast:  Jose  Santa 
Cruz,  Leo  Carrillo;  Miles  Kincaid,  Johnny  Mack 
Brown;  Lasca,  Dorothy  Burgess;  Crabapple,  Slim 
Summer ville;  Jehosophal  Smith,  Frank  Campeau. 

"LULLABY,  THE"— M-G-M.— From  the  play 
by  Edward  Knoblock.  Directed  by  Edgar  Selwyn. 
The  cast:  Madelon,  Helen  Hayes;  Carlo  Boretti,  Lewis 
Stone;  Larry,  Neil  Hamilton;  Victor,  Cliff  Edwards; 
Rosalie,  Marie  Prevost;  Suzetle,  Aileen  Pringle; 
Jacques,  Robert  Young;  Roget,  Halliwell  Hobbes; 
Salignac,  Bradley  Page;  Angeline,  Claire  McDowell; 
Claudel,  Lloyd  Ingraham;  Grandmother,  Margaret 
Seddon;  Emil,  Tenen  Holtz;  Si.  Jacques,  Lennox 
Pawle. 

"MAGNIFICENT  LIE.  THE"— Paramount.— 
From  the  story  "Laurels  and  the  Lady"  by  Leonard 
Merrick.  Screen  play  by  Samson  Raphaelson- 
Directed  by  Berthold  Viertel.  The  cast:  Poll,  Ruth 
Chatterton;  Bill,  Ralph  Bellamy;  Elmer,  Stuart 
Erwin;  Rosa  Duchene,  Francoise  Rosay;  Larry,  Sam 
Hardy;  Jacques,  Charles  Boyer;  Pierre,  Tyler  Brooke; 
Clarence,  Tyrrell  Davis. 

"MEN  OF  THE  SKY"— First  National. — 
From  the  story  by  Jerome  Kern  and  Otto  Harbach. 
Directed  by  Alfred  E.  Green.  The  cast:  Madeleine, 
Irene  Delroy;  Jack  Ames,  Jack  Whiting;  Eric  Von 
Coburg,  Bramwell  Fletcher;  Madeleine's  Father,  John 
Sainpolis;  Oscar,  Frank  McHugh. 

"MERELY  MARY  ANN  "—Fox.— From  the 
story  by  Israel  Zangwill.  Screen  play  by  Jules 
Furthman.  Directed  by  Henry  King.  The  cast: 
Mary  Ann,  Janet  Gaynor;  John  Lonsdale.  Charles 
Farrell;  Mrs.  Leadbatler,  Beryl  Mercer;  Peter  Brook, 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  September,  1931 


I  27 


G.  P.  Huntley,  Jr.;  Draymen,  J.  M.  Kerrigan  and  Tom 
Whitley;  Rosie  Leadballer,  Lorna  Balfour;  ViCOT 
Smedge,  Arnold  Lucy. 

-MERRY  WIVES  OF  VIENNA,  THE"— Super 
Film. — From  the  scenario  by  Walter  Reich.  Directed 
by  Geza  von  Bolvary.  The  cast:  Augustin  Tusch- 
inger,  Willy  Forst;  Anselme  Lcilner,  Commissioner  of 
Monuments,  Paul  Hoerbiger;  Alois  Slanigi,  Ernst 
Wurmser;  Gretl,  Lee  Parry;  His  Excellency,  WalJ- 
mueller,  Oskar  Sima;  Therese  Zelenka,  known  as  Flotte 
Motle,  Cordy  Millowitsch. 

"MURDER  BY  THE  CLOCK"— Paramount. — 
From  the  story  by  Rufus  King.  Play  by  Charles 
Beahan.  Adapted  by  Henry  Myers.  Directed  by 
Edward  Sloman.  The  cast:  Lieut.  Valcour,  William 
Boyd;  Laura  Endicoll,  Lilyan  Tashman;  Phillip 
Endicott,  Irving  Pichel ;OfficerCassidy,  Regis  Toomey; 
Jane,  Sally  O'Neil;  Mrs.  Julia  Endicoll,  Blanche 
'"rcderici;  Herbert  Endicott,  Walter  McGrail;  Miss 
Roberts,  Martha  Mattox. 

•MYSTERY  OF  LIFE,  THE"— Classic— Ex- 
1  lanatory  lecture  by  Clarence  Darrow  and  Dr.  H. 
Parshley.    Directed  by  George  Cochrane. 

"POLITICS"— M-G-M.— From  the  story  by 
Zelda  Sears  and  Malcolm  Stuart  Boylan.  Adapted 
by  Wells  Root.  Directed  by  Charles  F.  Riesner.  The 
cast:  Hattie,  Marie  Dressier;  Ivy,  Polly  Moran;  Peter, 
Roscoe  Ates;  Myrtle,  Karen  Morley;  Benny,  William 
Bakewell;  Curango,  John  Miljan;  Daisy,  Joan  Marsh; 
Mayor,  Tom  McGuire;  Nifty.  Kane  Richmond;  Mrs. 
Evans,  Mary  Alden. 

"PUBLIC  DEFENDER,  THE"  —  Radio 
Pictures. — -From  the  novel  by  George  Goodschild. 
Screen  play  by  Bernard  Schubert.  Directed  by  J. 
Walter  Ruben.  The  cast:  Pike  Winslow,  Richard 
Dix;  Barbara  Gerry,  Shirley  Grey;  Wells,  Edmund 
Breese;  Doctor,  Paul  Hurst;  John  Burns,  Purnell 
Pratt;  Inspector  O'Neil,  Alan  Roscoe;  Professor,  Boris 
Karloff;  Rose,  Ruth  Weston;  Aunt  Matilda,  Nella 
Walker;  Auctioneer,  William  Harrigan;  Charles 
Harmer,  Frank  Sheridan;  Cyrus  Pringle,  Carl 
Gerrard. 

"  SALVATION  NELL"— Tiffany-Cruze.— From 
the  play  by  E.  R.  Sheldon.  Directed  by  James 
Cruze.  The  cast:  Jim  Piatt,  Ralph  Graves;  Nell 
Saunders,  Helen  Chandler;  Myrtle,  Sally  O'Neil; 
Major  Williams,  Jason  Robards;  McGovern,  DeWitt 
Jennings;  Maggie,  Charlotte  Walker;  Mooney, 
Mathew  Betz;  Madame  Cloquette,  Rose  Dione; 
Jimmy,  Wally  Albright. 

"SECRET  CALL,  THE"— Paramount.— From 
the  play  "The  Woman"  by  William  C.  De  Mdle. 
Adapted  by  Arthur  Kober.  Directed  by  Stuart 
Walker.  The  cast:  Tom  Blake,  Richard  Arlen; 
Wanda  Kelly,  Peggy  Shannon;  Neligan,  Eugene 
Pallette;  Bert  Benedict,  Ned  Sparks;  Jim  Blake, 
William  B.  Davidson;  Phillip  Roberts,  Charles  Trow- 
bridge; Frank  Kelly,  Harry  Beresford;  Gwen,  Frances 
Moffett;  Maizie,  Claire  Dodd. 

"SECRETS  OF  A  SECRETARY"— Paramount. 
— From  the  story  by  Charles  Brackett.  Adapted  by 
George  Abbott.  Directed  by  George  Abbott.  The 
cast:  Helen,  Claudette  Colbert;  Frank,  Georges 
Metaxa;  Paul,  Herbert  Marshall;  Sylvia,  Betty  Law- 
ford;  Mr.  Merrill,  Burton  Churchill;  Mrs.  Merrill, 
Mary  Boland;  Dan  Marlow,  Avril  Harriss;  Dorothy, 
Betty  Garde;  Charlie,  Hugh  O'Connell;  Daly,  Barry 
MacCullum. 

"SHERLOCK  HOLMES'  FATAL  HOUR"— 
Warners-First  Division. — Adapted  from  "The 
Final  Problem"  and  "The  Empty  House"  by  the  late 
Sir  Arthur  Conan  Doyle.  Directed  by  Leslie  S. 
Hiscott.  The  cast:  Sherlock  Holmes,  Arthur  Wontner; 
Doctor  Watson,  Jan  Fleming;  Mrs.  Hudson,  Minnie 
Raynor;  Ronald  Adair,  Leslie  Perrins;  Kathleen  Adair, 
Jane  Welsh;  Colonel  Henslowe,  Norman  McKinnell; 
Thomas  Fisher,  William  Frazer;  Tony  Rutherford, 
Sidney  King;  Inspector  Lestrade,  Phillip  Hewland; 
Marslon,  Gordon  Begg;  Colonel  Moran,  Louis  Good- 
rich; No.  16,  Harry  Terry;  J.  J.  Godfrey,  Charles 
Paton. 

"SIDE  SHOW"— Warners.— From  the  story  by 
William  K.  Wells.  Adapted  by  Arthur  Caesar  and 
Raymond  Enright.  Directed  by  Roy  Del  Ruth.  The 
cast:  Pat,  Winnie  Lightner;  Sidney,  Charles  Butter- 
worth;  Irene,  Evalyn  Knapp;  Joe,  Donald  Cook;  Pop, 


the  Circus  Owner,  Guy  Kibbee;  Whalcn,  Mathew  Betz; 
Santini,  Luis  Alberni;  Bearded  Lady,  Louise  Carver; 
Fai  Lady,  Ann  Magruder;  Jimmie,  Edward  Morgan. 

"SKIN  GAME,  THE" — British  International. 
— From  the  play  by  John  Galsworthy.  Adapted  and 
directed  by  Alfred  Hitchcock.  The  cast:  Mr.  Uill- 
crisl,  C.  V.  France;  Mrs.  Hillcrist,  Helen  Haye;  Jill, 
Jill  Esmond;  Mr.  Hornblower,  Edmund  Gwenn; 
Charles,  John  Longden;  Chloe,  Phyllis  Konstam;  Rolf, 
Frank  Lawton;  Mr.  Jackman,  Herbert  Ross;  Mrs. 
Jackman,  Dora  Gregory;  First  Stranger,  R.  E.  Jeffrey; 
Second  Stranger,  George  Bancroft;  Dawker,  Edward 
Chapman;  Auctioneer,  Ronald  Frankau. 

"SPORTING  BLOOD"— M-G-M.— From  the 
story  "Horseflesh"  by  Frederick  Hazlitt  Brennan. 
Adapted  by  Willard  Mack  and  Wanda  Tuchock. 
Directed  by  Charles  Brabin.  The  cast:  Rid  Ridd-il, 
Clark  Gable;  Jim  Rellence.  Ernest  Torrence;  Ruby, 
Madge  Evans;  Tip  Scanlon,  Lew  Cody;  Angela, 
Marie  Prevost;  Ludeking,  Hallam  Cooley;  MacGuire, 
J.  Farrell  MacDonald;  Uncle  Ben,  John  Larkin; 
Sammy,  Eugene  Jackson;  Tommy  Boy,  by  himself. 

"STAR  WITNESS,  THE"— First  National.— 
From  the  story  by  Lucien  A.  Hubbard.  Directed  by 
William  Wellman.  The  cast:  D.  A.  Whitlock,  Walter 
Huston;  Gran  pa  Summerville,  Chas.  Chic  Sale;  Ma 
Leeds,  Frances  Starr;  Sue  Leeds,  Sally  Blane;  Brown, 
Tom  Dugan;  Campeau,  Ralph  Ince;  Thorpe,  Russell 
Hopton;  Dopey,  Fletcher  Norton;  Williams,  Robert 
Elliott;  Jack  Short,  Guy  d'Ennery;  Mickey,  Mikj 
Donlin;  Horan,  Noel  Madison;  Sackell,  Ed  Dec-ring; 
Big  Jack,  Nat  Pendleton;  Ned  Leeds,  George  Ernest; 
Donny  Leeds,  Dickie  Moore;  Pa  Leeds,  Grant 
Mitchell;  Jackie  Leeds,  Edward  J.  Nugent. 

"SUSAN  LENOX,  HER  FALL  AND  RISE"— 
M-G-M. — From  the  story  by  David  Graham  Phillips. 
Adapted  by  Wanda  Tuchock.  Directed  by  Robert 
Z.  Leonard.  The  cast:  Susan  Lenox,  Greta  Garbu; 
Rodney,  Clark  Gable;  Ohlin,  Jean  Hersholt;  Burling- 
ham,  John  Miljan;  Mondstrum,  Alan  Hale;  Ike  Kelly, 
Hale  Hamilton;  Astrid,  Hilda  Vaughn;  Doctor, 
Russell  Simpson;  Madame  Panoramia,  Cecil  Cun- 
ningham; Herr  Kemper,  Theodore  Von  Eltz;  Vera, 
Marjorie  King;  Mrs.  Rodney  Spencer,  Helene  Millard. 

"TRANSATLANTIC"— Fox.— From  the  story 
by  Guy  Bolton.  Directed  by  William  K.  Howard. 
The  cast:  Monty  Greer,  Edmund  Lowe;  Judy  Kramer, 
Lois  Moran;  Henry  Graham,  John  Halliday;  Sigrid 
Carline,  Greta  Nissen;  Rudolph  Kramer,  Jean 
Hersholt;  Kay  Graham,  Myrna  Loy;  Handsome, 
Earle  Foxe;  Hudgins,  Billy  Bevan;  Burbank,  Ruth 
Donnelly;  Peters,  Goodee  Montgomery;  Buyer,  Jesse 
De  Vorska;  The  Bride,  Rosalie  Roy;  Captain,  Claude 
King;  First  Officer,  Crauford  Kent;  Gamblers,  Henry 
Sedley,  Bob  Montgomery  and  Louis  Natheaux. 

"WATERLOO  BRIDGE"— Universal.— From 
the  play  by  Robert  E.  Sherwood.  Screen  play  by 
Benn  Levy.  Directed  by  James  Whale.  The  cast: 
Myra,  Ma?  Clark;  Roy,  Kent  Douglass;  Roy's  Sister, 
Bette  Davis;  Kitty,  Doris  Lloyd;  Mrs.  Hobley,  Ethel 
GriffLs;  Mrs.  Wetherby,  Enid  Bennett;  Mr.  Wetherby, 
Frederic  Kerr;  Old  Woman,  Rita  Carlisle. 

"WILD  HORSE"— Allied.— From  the  story  by 
Peter  B.  Kyne.  Screen  play  by  Jack  Natteford. 
Directed  by  Richard  Thorpe  and  Sidney  Algier.  The 
cast:  Jim  Wright,  Hoot  Gibson;  Alice  Hall,  Alberta 
Vaughn;  "Slepin,"  Stepin  Fetchit;  Colonel  Ben  Hall, 
George  Bunny;  Sheriff,  Edward  Peil;  Gil  Davis, 
Edmund  Cobb;  Hank  Howard,  Neal  Hart;  Deputy, 
Joe  Rickson;  Wally,  Fred  Gilman;  Trained  Horses, 
Hoot  Gibson's  "Mutt"  and  Jack  Boyle's  "Reno" 
and  "Ghost." 

"WOMEN  GO  ON  FOREVER"— Tiffany- 
Cruze.— From  the  stage  play  by  Daniel  N.  Rubin. 
Adapted  by  Ralph  Murphy.  Directed  by  Walter 
Lang.  The  cast:  Daisy  Bowman;  Clara  Kimball 
Young;  Belly,  Marian  Nixon;  Eddie,  Paul  Page;  Jake, 
Morgan  Wallace;  Pearl.  Yola  D'Avril;  Willie,  Lorin 
Raker;  Daly,  the  detective,  Thomas  Jackson;  Mr. 
Givner.  Eddie  Lambert;  Mrs.  Givncr.  Nellie  Nicholls; 
Pete,  Maurice  Black;  Tommy,  Maurice  Murphy; 
Lucy,  Madame  Sultana. 

"WOMEN  MEN  MARRY"— Headline  Prod.— 
From  the  novel  by  John  Natteford.  Directed  by 
Charles  Hutchison.  The  cast:  Dolly  Moulton, 
Natalie  Moorhead;  Rose  Bradley,  Sally  Blane; 
Sieve  Bradley,  Randolph  SccU;FrecHMoullon,  Kenneth 
Harlan;  John  Graham,  Crauford  Kent;  Pierre 
Renault,  Jean  Del  Val;  Jimmy,  James  Aubrey. 


I 


Pin 
Money 

For  Our 
Readers 


PHOTOPLAY  now 
offers  its  readers  the 
opportunity  to  convert 
their  spare  time  into 
real  money  by  becoming 
its  subscription  repre- 
sentatives in  the  town  or 
community  in  which 
they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of 
Photoplay,  will  be 
quick  to  realize  the 
money-making  possibil- 
ities this  offer  affords 
you. 

Your  friends  —  your 
neighbors  —  in  fact,  all 
the  homes  in  your  com- 
munity— are  prospective 
subscribers  for  PHOTO- 
PLAY. Who,  today,  is 
not  interested  in  moving 
pictures — the  chief  rec- 
reation of  the  American 
public? 

Be  the  first  in  your 
community  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  this  offer,  and 
get  started  at  once.  A 
post  card  will  bring  fur- 
ther details. 

Photoplay  Magazine 

Depl.RE-9-31,919N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,!!!. 


CONVINCE 

YOURSELF 

Accept 

Special 

Offer 


FORM 
DEVELOPED 

FI,AT  chested?  Fashion  demand^  the 
full,  rounded  shapeliness  of  the  won  - 
anly  form.  The  st;ir<  of  Hollywood  are 
developing  their  feminine  charm.  Y<  ». 
too,  can  quickly  add  extra  fullness  where 
needed.      Mv    new   method    plumps  out 

thr   hollow*  nnd   build*   firm,   youthful   Uh 
IRV     ., ,v    jrond*rtnl     MIRACLE     CREAM     *ml 

GIVEN  Write  Today 

SVrxl  rn'v  $1  00  fnr  lure*    I  it- 
er  NANCY  LEE   MIRACLE  CREAM    (in   pLin 

,nd    I    will    inrl'idV     mv    iprfinl     Fir'ir-- 
I      Couth     nnH     complete     adrffl*         Take 
•dvmat.icc  of  thia  bic  offer— write  AT  0NCE1 

NANCY  LEE     Depi  X-9 

816  Broadway,         New  York,  N.  Y. 


HH  ». 

^%^B 

IFw. /fie ' 

sBH          s« 

•^^■■i 

H&jHu^SI 

y» 

B*            Htj              B        Ftp 

x^a^Kk 

^■^^  ^Am 

1    m'JK*s 

^Hr  ■   vt^^mk^ 

*^              ' 

^P^^^      ,*^^^B 

^■^■^^'^ 

* 

^n^^^P 

■W  ~" 

«9SB! 

¥  -  <eii^ifl 

"if!                              '" 

ill 

Booth  Tarkington's  Pen- 
rot/  and  5am  come  to  life 
on  the  screen!  Looks 
like  this  will  be  one  of 
those  breakfast  table 
scenes,  with  Penrod,  in 
the  person  of  Leon 
Janney,  concocting  some 
new  mischief  from  his 
parents'  conversation. 
That  thing  at  the  left  dis- 
guised as  a  mattress  is 
really  a  sound  camera 


Studio   Rambles 


Maid"  set  at  the  Paramount       &  V     t  T  CLtl  C  6  S     KlSfl 


W! 
Eastern    Studio.      The    first 
scene  is  "below  stairs"  where   ten  servants  are 
having  dinner. 

Another  visitor,  new  to  the  methods  of  movie-making,  ex- 
presses surprise  over  the  light  blue  tablecloths  and  napkins, 
the  blue  shirt  fronts  of  the  butlers,  the  chef's  suit  and  cap,  all  of 
pale  blue.  Monta  Bell,  the  director,  explains  to  him  that  this 
blue  photographs  white,  but  doesn't  reflect  the  light  as  white 
does,  making  the  photographers'  work  easier. 

Later,  we  watch  Nancy  Carroll  and  Pat  ("Front  Page") 
O'Brien  do  a  scene  together.  Nancy's  red  hair  is  in  attractive 
contrast  to  the  black  of  her  uniform,  with  its  lacy  white  apron, 
cap  and  cuffs.     Nancy  is  the  "personal  maid"  of  the  title. 

She  is  saying  to  Mr.  O'Brien,  who  plays  the  role  of  Peter: 
"Peter,  I  want  to  tell  you  something.  Something  about 
Dick."  Dick  is  the  son  of  the  house,  played  by  the  very  blond 
Gene  Raymond,  formerly  Raymond  Guion  of  the  New  York 
stage. 

Peter  is  silent  and  grave.  As  she  goes  on  with  her  recital, 
he  interrupts:  "I  don't  think  you  need  to  tell  me  the  rest.  I 
think  I  understand." 

A  buzzer  rings.  "That's  for  me,"  Nancy  says.  "Back  to  my 
job.    I  guess  the  clock  has  struck  for  Cinderella." 

We're  surprised  to  see  Pat  O'Brien  in  make-up.  Word  had 
gone  around  that  Mr.  Bell  preferred  his  actors  to  work  without 
make-up,  in  contrast  to  the  women  in  the  cast. 

"I'm  no  Buddy  Rogers,"  snorts  Pat.  "A  mug  like  mine 
has  to  have  make-up.  This  broken  nose,  souvenir  of  my  foot- 
ball days,  demands  it.  And  I  look  like  Rasputin  unless  I  shave 
three  times  a  day.  How  could  I  face  the  camera  without  a 
camouflage?" 

Resting  between  scenes,  Pat  tells  us  what  a  "swell  break" 
Howard  Hughes  gave  him  in  "The  Front  Page."  How  Mr. 
Hughes  sent  for  Pat's  fiancee,  Eloise  Taylor,  a  stage  actress, 
to  keep  Pat  happy  in  Hollywood.  Pat  and  Eloise  were  married 
out  there,  and  you  have  an  awful  time  getting  him  to  talk 
about  himself,  once  you've  brought  up  the  subject  of  his  wife. 
He  raves  on  and  on  about  her,  as  is  the  age-old  habit  of  bride- 
grooms. 

128 


He  does  tell  us  about  his  first  job  in 

New    York,    in    the    musical    comedy, 

"Adrienne."       "George     Bancroft     will 

probably  be  out  gunning  for  me  for  squealing  on  him,"  he  says, 

"but  none  other  than  the  gusty  George  was  the  singing  and 

dancing  comedian  of  that  show!" 

OUT  in  Burbank,  on  the  First  National  lot,  we  watch  a 
courtroom  scene  in  "The  Star  Witness"  and  discover  that 
Walter  Huston  is  working  without  any  make-up  at  all.  Unlike 
Pat  O'Brien,  he  thinks  he  photographs  better  without  it,  and 
uses  only  the  minimum  of  make-up  even  in  character  roles. 

Sally  Blane  is  in  this  picture,  her  first  role  on  sister  Loretta 
Young's  home  lot. 

OVER  on  the  M-G-M  lot  in  Culver  City,  there's  another 
courtroom  scene.  (As  a  nation,  we're  getting  legal-minded. 
No  picture  complete  without  its  murder  trial.) 

The  picture  is  "Sidewalks  of  New  York,"  starring  Buster 
Keaton.  A  juvenile  case  is  being  tried,  and  dozens  and  dozens 
of  ragged  youngsters  are  piled  onto  the  witness  chairs,  in  the 
jury  box,  on  the  floor — anywhere  the  court  attendants  could 
find  a  place  for  them. 

There's  no  lack  of  animation  or  make-up  here.  One  little 
lad  keeps  dragging  a  lipstick  from  his  pocket  when  no  one  is 
watching,  and  giving  himself  a  few  badly  aimed  daubs  with  it. 
Another,  finding  it  necessary  to  leave  the  room  for  a  moment, 
admonishes  the  youngster  next  to  him:  "You  yell  for  me  when 
they  shoot.   And  hold  my  seat,  or  you'll  be  sorry  you  didn't!" 

Behind  the  scenes,  at  the  far  end  of  the  room,  are  long 
tables  and  benches.  Around  them  sit  more  children — Japan- 
ese, Mexican,  colored  and  white — doing  readin',  writin'  and 
'rithmetic.  One  teacher  for  every  ten  children  is  furnished  by 
the  Los  Angeles  Board  of  Education,  and  paid  for  by  the  studio 
employing  the  children.  We  learn  that  more  than  one  hundred 
teachers  are  on  call  daily  at  the  Board  offices  for  studio  classes, 
with  one  teacher  stationed  permanently  at  each  studio. 

Every  child  who  plays  in  pictures  must  be  in  the  classroom 
at  least  four  hours  each  school  day  although  the  hours  do  not 
have  to  be  consecutive.  That's  why  classes  are  held  right 
on  the  set. 


PaEESPEOPEE  EVERYWHERE 
told  me  "IVORY  is  safest 


for  washing  fine  things 


i*i 


Whether  you  live  in  the  East  or  the  West,  you  can  learn  in  the 
fine  shops  of  your  own  city  what  I  traveled  4500  miles  to  learn. 

MILES  and  miles  of  traveling  .  .  .  hundreds  of  smart 
shops  to  visit ...  So  many  lovely  garments  to  admire 
.  .  .  and  thousands  of  interviews  with  expert  saleswomen. 
That's  been  my  life  for  several  months! 

Interesting,  yes.  And  very  informative.  For  I  confirmed 
again  one  very  important  fact.  Fashions  may  change  .  .  . 
Lovely  new  fabrics  appear  .  .  .  And  new  soaps  make  their 
bow  .  .  .  But  salespeople  in  the  finest  shops  say  more  en- 
thusiastically than  ever  .  .  .  "Ivory  gives  the  safest  care  to  all 
fine  things." 

"Use  Ivory  to  wash  fine  silks,  woolens,  delicate  cottons 
and  rayons."  I  heard  this  not  only  in  one  city.  And  not 
only  in  a  few  stores.  But  in  every  store,  in  every  one  of 
30  leading  cities. 


From  coast  to  coast,  salespeople  recommended 
Ivory  for  silks  oftener  than  all  other  soaps  together. 

Salespeople  in  every  city  I  visited  advised  Ivory  oftener 
than  all  other  soaps  together.  Ivory  in  one  of  its  various 
forms — in  the  cake,  or  in  the  flake  form,  or  in  the  new  in- 
stant-dissolving form — Ivory  Snow. 

And  isn't  it  natural?  The  most  important  virtue  a  fine- 
fabric  soap  can  have  is  purity — gentleness.  And  Ivory  is  pure 
and  safe  without  question.  Pure  and  gentle  enough  to  protect 
the  rosy-posy  skins  of  the  five  or  six  millions  of  babies  it 
bathes  every  day.  So  pure  and  safe  that  salespeople  recom- 
mend it  above  all  other  soaps  for  your  finest  and  most 
delicate  fabrics.  hope    Andrews 


#  News!  Ivory  flakes  are 
now  chiffon-thin!  Dissolve 
instantly   in   lukewarm  water! 


kind  to  everything  it  touches 


99  44/1O0  o/0  Pure 


In  Minneapolis  or  Memphis — 
"Ivory  is  safest  for  wool." 


Ivory,  kind  to  a  baby's  skin.  Of  course 
it's  extra-safe  for  fine  fabrics. 


C  1931.  P.  &  C.  Co. 


K^OHt/ufi 


'ex  t/owi 


r 


Of, 


OMfJ 


//* 


•    # 


Don't  Rasp  Your  Throat 
With  Harsh  Irritants 


" Reach  for  a 
LUCKY  instead" 

Place  your  finger  on  your  Adam's  Apple.  You  are  ac- 
tually touching  your  larynx  —  this  is  your  voice  box  — 
it  contains  your  vocal  chords.  When  you  consider  your 
Adam's  Apple,  you  are  considering  your  throat  —  your 
vocal  chords. 

What  is  the  effect  of  modern  Ultra  Violet  Rays  upon 
tobacco?  Dr.  E.  E.  Free,  one  of  America's  well-known 
scientists,  who  was  retained  by  us  to  study  Lucky 
Strike's  manufacturing  process,  addressing  the 
Illuminating  Engineering  Society,  said: 

"The  essential  effect'of  the  Ultra  Violet  is  the 
production  of  better  tobacco  and  of  cigarettes 
regarded  by  virtually  all  smokers  who  have 
tested  them  a;  miller  and  with  a  lesser  ten' 
dency  to  cause  throat  irritation." 

Here  in  America  LUCKY  STRIKE  is  the  only  cigarette 
that  employs  Ultra  Violet  Rays  in  connection  with  its 
exclusive  "TOASTING"  Process  —  the  only  cigarette 
that  brings  you  the  benefits  of  the  exclusive  "TOAST- 
ING" Process  which  expels  certain  harsh  irritants 
present  in  all  raw  tobaccos. 


©1931, 

The  A.  T.  Co.. 

urn. 


TUNE  IN  — 
Th£  Lucky  Strike 
Dance  Orches- 
tra, every  Tues- 
day, Thursday 
ana  Saturday 
evening  over 
N.  B.  C.  net- 
works. 


"It's  toasflu. 

Including  the  use  of  Ultrcn 

Sunshine  Mellows  —  Haflt  Puril 
Your  Throat  Protection  —  against  Irritatic  |        <  i 


lie  Unknown 

Hollywood 

I  Know 


How  Ten  Stars 
Overcame  Self- 
Consciousness 


BJB 


MB^B 


CECI 


Master    of    Spectacular 
Productions    presents    his 


TWO 

W  0 

E  N 

L  0  V 

E  D 

H 

1  M 

His  wife  and  the  wife  of  another 
-  the  woman  who  gave  up  every, 
thing  for  him — and  the  woman 
for  whom  he  gave  up  everything. 

The  first  saved  his  life  twice — and 
twice  he  drove  her  away.  The  sec- 
ond  told  him  she  never  wanted  to 
see  him  again — yet  she  crossed 
half  the  world  to  find  him. 


FATE 

BRANDED 

H  1  M 

A 

T  H 

1  E  F 

AND  THEN  MADE  HIM  AN 
ENGLISH  PEER!  ...  He  was  an 
officer  and  a  gentleman.  To  him 
honor  meant  more  than  anything 
else — more  than  friends,  country, 
or  life  itself...  And  yet  he  accepted 
dishonor  to  save  the  honor  of  his 
enemy.  He  left  England's  life  of 
luxury  for  America's  wildest  West 
— but  England  sought  him  out,  and 
fate  made  him  a  peer  of  the  realm! 


TWO 

FORCES 

S  WAY  E  D 

H  1  M 

"I'm  just  a  woman  who  loves  you," 
his  goddess  had  said,  "wanting  ter- 
ribly to  play  fair."  And  her  eyes 
pleaded  with  him  to  help  her  .  .  . 

What  should  he  do? . . .  His  honor 
commanded,  "Go!"  His  love  wliis* 
pered,  "Stay!"   Two  fates  called — 


ARNER  BAXTER  in 


but  only  one  could  be  answered... 
As  man  of  mystery,  he  comes  to 
America's  frontier  of  fate  and  for- 
tune— where  he  battles  racketeers 
— where  he  defies  the  law  at  pistol 
point — until  destiny  plays  an  un- 
expected ace! 

A  THRILLING 
ALL    STAR    CAST 

With  such  distinguished  players  as 
WARNER  BAXTER,  LUPE 
VELEZ,  ELEANOR  BOARD- 
MAN,  CHARLES  BICKFORD 
and  ROLAND  YOUNG,  this  epic 
drama  is  made  the  sensational 
love-adventure  film  of  the  year . . . 
Directed  by  the  master  hand  of 
the  screen's  greatest  director— 

CECIL  B.  DE  MILLE 


W  MAN 


ETRO- 


-MAYER    Picture 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Of  all  things . .  ."Pink  Tooth  Brush" 


and  I  am  only  26! 


■  ■ 


ID clllcl  tooth  paste 


IT  can  happen  to  you  when  you're  26, 
sooner  than  that,  or  later.  But  "pink 
tooth  brush"  is  always  just  around  the 
corner  unless  you  take  the  initiative  now, 
and  say  "No!"  to  its  threats! 

If  from  earliest  childhood  you  daily- 
went  in  for  coarse  foods  that  exercised  and 
stimulated  your  gums,  you  would  prob- 
ably never  be  bothered  with  "pink"  on 
your  tooth  brush.  But  who  in  these  modern 
days  eats  anything  but  soft  foods?  That  is 
why  your  gums  become  lazy  and  inert, 
and  in  time  so  tender  that  you  find  your 
brush  "pink"  pretty  regularly. 

"Pink  tooth  brush,"  if  allowed  to  go 
on,  can  cause  you  no  end  of  annoyance. 
In  the  first  place,  it  often  precedes  gum 
troubles  such  as  Vincent's  disease  and  gin- 
givitis and  the  dread,  even  though  rare, 
pyorrhea.  And  in  time  it  may  threaten  in- 
fection at  the  roots  of  some  of  your  teeth. 

In  fact,  the  only  pleasant  news  in  con- 
nection with  "pink  tooth  brush"  is  that 
it  can  be  prevented  or  checked. 

Clean  your  teeth  with  Ipana  Tooth 
Paste.  But  each  time,  put  a  little  fresh 
Ipana  on  your  brush  and  lightly  massage 
it  into  those  touchy  gums  of  yours. 

Ipana  has  ziratol  in  it — .and  the  ziratol 
with  massage  arouses  them  from  their 
lethargy,  stimulates  them  to  new  health 
and  firmness. 

You'll  like  Ipana 's  fine  fresh  flavor,  and 
almost  at  once  your  teeth  will  begin  to 
look  whiter  and  more  sparkling.  It  may 
take  a  bit  longer  before  your  gums  show 
a  decided  improvement,  but  within  thirty 
days  they  u/7/show  it.  And  then,  just  keep 
on  using  Ipana  with  massage,  so  "pink 
tooth  brush"  will  stay  out  of  your  life! 


BRISTOL  MYERS  CO..  Dept.  i-ioi 
73  West  Street,  New  York.  N.  Y. 

Kindly  send  me  a  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH 
PASTE.  Enclosed  is  a  two-cent  sump  to  cover  partly 
the  cost  of  packing  and  mailing. 

Name 

Stmt  

City SlaU 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


CkMASX  BROTHERS 


'£*Jfc>  Stars  of 

THE  (OCOANITS "and 
ANIMAL  CRACKERS 


Directed  by  Norman  McLeod 


In  MONKEY   BUSIN€SS 


Celebrate  Paramount's 

20th  Birthday  Jubilee! 

• 

Paramount  is  celebrating  20  years  of  leader- 
ship with  the  greatest  pictures  in  its  history1 
Watch  for  "24  Hours,"  "A  Farewell  to 
Arms,"  "No  One  Man,"  "Lives  of  a 
Bencal  Lancer."  And  such  stars  as  Harold 
Lloyd,  Georce  Bancroft,  Marlene 
Dietrich,  Ruth  Chatterton  and  others  in 
the  greatest  pictures  of  their  careers1 

PARAMOUNT  PUBLIX  CORPORATION 
ADOLPH  ZIIKOR.PRES  .PARAMOUNT  BLDG  ,N  Y 


Z/fUGH  ING  days  are  here  again  !  With  that  famous  frenzied  foursome.The  Marx 
/  Brothers,  in  a  new  madhouse  of  merriment -"MONKEY  BUSINESS:' 
It's  the  first  of  the  great  pictures  in  Paramount  Jubilee  Month  —  September— 
when  leading  theatres  everywhere  will  feature  Paramount  Pictures.  Watch 
for  announcements.    "If  it's  a  Paramount  Picture  it's  the  best  show  in  town!" 


("paramount  •  Chlcturei 


IOTOP 


The  World's  Leading  Motion  Picture  Publication 


Vol.  XL  No.  5 


JAMES  R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publisher 


October,  1931 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  for 
the    best    picture   of  the    year 

1920  1923  1926 

"HUMOR-         "The  "BEAU 

ESQUE"    COVERED         GESTE" 
WAGON" 

1921  1924  1927 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 


1922 

1925 

1928 

"ROBIN 

"THE  BIG 

"FOUR 

HOOD" 

PARADE" 

1929 

"DISRAELI" 

SONS" 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets  . 

Friendly  Advice  on  Girls' 
Problems 


16 


Hollywood  Menus 81 

Questions  and  Answers      ...  86 

Screen  Memories  from  Photoplay  90 

Addresses  of  the  Stars    ....  9-t 

Casts  of  Current  Photoplays       .      .  126 


High-Lights  of  This  Issue 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots  .... 

Long  Hair  or  Short? 

Why  One  Marriage  Failed!. 

The  Unknown  Hollywood  I  Know     . 

How  Ten  Stars  Overcame  Self-Consciousness 


James  R.  Quirk  25 

Harry  D.  Wilson  28 

Leonard  Hall  81 

Katiierine  Albert  36 


Adele  YVhitely  Fletcher     .'58 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 

If  Garbo  Marries 

Seymour — Photoplay's  Style  Authority 

To  an  Unknown  Actor 

A  "Location"  Ramble 


42 

Leonard  Hall     46 

.      .       .       .57 

Helen  Ludlah      70 

Frances  Kish    128 


Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 8 

The  Shadow  Stage 48 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 98 

Personalities 

He's  Not  So  Dumb Tom  Ellis  32 

"What  a  Man!"— Clark  Gable Harry  Lang  34 

He  Is  Her  Man ! Cal  York  55 

Lily's  Coming  Back Ruth  Biery  56 

Manners — He  Has  Them Harry  Lang  65 

A  Nervous  Wreck! Michael  Woodward  66 

She's  Not  a  Parrot Ruth  Biery  67 

Edmund  Lowe 68 

Girl,  Wife,  Grandmother 74 

Pauline  Frederick  and  Joan  Crawford 76 


Short  Stories 


Falling  Star 


Charles  J.  M<  Giiuk      52 


Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 
Editorial  Offices,  221  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City  Publishing  Office,  919  N,  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

The  International  News  Company,  Ltd.,  Distributing  Agents,  5  Bream's  Building,  London,  England 

James  R.  Quirk,  President  Robert  M.  Eastman,  Vice-President  Kathryn  Dougherty,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and  Cuba;  S3. 50  Canada;  $3.50  for  foreign  countries.    Remittances 

should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    Caution— Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24,  1912,  at  the  Postoffice  at  Chicago,  111.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879. 

Copyright,  1931,  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company,  Chicago 


Brickbats  £f  Bouquets 


The  $25  Letter 

T"  HAVE  a  friend  who  is  a  librarian  in  a 
■*■  public  library  and  she  chanced  to  speak 
of  the  sudden  demand  for  DuMaurier's 
"Trilby."  It  was  the  week  after  "Svengali" 
had  been  running  at  a  local  theater,  and 
many  people  who  had  seen  the  picture  were 
anxious  to  read  or  re-read  the  old  favorite. 

In  answer  to  my  interested  inquiries,  my 
friend  said  that  the  movies,  especially  the 
talkies,  have  had  a  tremendous  influence  in 
acquainting  people  with  famous  books. 
She  had  noticed  that  persons  who  evidently 
had  never  before  been  interested  in  good 
reading,  were  coming  to  the  library  to  ask 
for  such  books  as  "Tom  Sawyer,"  "East 
Lynne,"  "Moby  Dick,"  and  "Resurrection." 

It  is  rather  nice  to  think  that  the  much 
maligned  movies  can  be  such  an  open  ses- 
ame to  the  marvelous  world  of  books  to 
those  who  have  never  before  known  their 
magic. 

Marian  Bates, 
Albany,  N.  Y. 


The  $10  Letter 

AN  entire  wedding  was  costumed  and 
•*  *-  planned  from  a  recent  motion  picture. 
We  wanted  to  have  it  as  smart  an  affair 
as  this  small,  mid-Western  town  had  ever 
witnessed.  The  financial  expenditure  did 
not  much  exceed  the  cost  of  an  ordinary 
wedding. 

We  sat  through  six  performances  of  the 
picture,  drew  sketches  and  made  notes  to 
guide  us.  There  were  some  concessions,  of 
course — no  orchids  in  the  bride's  bouquet, 
and  a  few  yards  cut  off  the  satin  train.  But 
other  details  were  carried  out  with  minute 
perfection.  It  was  not  theatrical  or  too 
lavish  for  good  taste. 

Except  for  the  movies  how  could  we  have 
dressed  the  bridesmaids  in  original  Chanel 
models?     Or  conceived  the  idea  of  a  wed- 

6 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Critics 


PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten  and  Five  Dollar  Prizes  for  the 

Best    Letters 


Come  on  in  and  speak  your  mind !  Don't  write  more 
than  200  words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your 
name  and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't 
write.  Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  PHOTOPLAY, 
221  West  57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the 
right  to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations 


ding  cake  baked  like  a  little  cottage  covered 
with  roses  and  frosted  flowers? 

Helene  A.  Hall, 
Yankton,  S.  D. 

The  $5  Letter 

"\/OLJ   may   be   interested   in   this   excerpt 
■*■  copied    from    my    little    sister's    prized 
notebook.     She  is  only  twelve  years  old. 

1.  Fix  hair  off  forehead  like  Carole 
Lombard. 

2.  Smile  attractively,  letting  left  side  of 
lips  curve  upward  about  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  like  Joan  Crawford. 

3.  Speak  distinctly  and  have  the  right 
pronunciation  like  Constance  Bennett. 


MOVIES,  as  a  guide  to  pleasant 
manners,  taste  in  dress  and  worth- 
while reading,  bring  out  a  lot  of 
comment  this  month.  There  is  an  inter- 
esting letter  from  a  mother  who  tells 
how  picture-going  changed  her  daughter 
from  a  harum-scarum  tomboy  to  a  poised 
and  charming  young  lady. 

Our  mail  is  full  of  praise  for  Barbara 
Stanwyck.  Though  not  everyone  liked 
"Night  Nurse,"  they  liked  Barbara  in  it, 
and  they  think  she  is  great  in  "The 
Miracle  Woman." 

Clark  Gable  bouquets  are  numerous 
enough  to  stock  a  florist  shop — a  huge 
one.  See  Harry  Lang's  story  about 
Clark  on  pages  thirty-four  and  five  of 
this  issue. 

Readers  are  still  begging  for  Clara 
Bow's  return.  They  say  no  one  can  take 
her  place,  although  they  are  lavish  in 
their  praise  of  Sylvia  Sidney  and  Peggy 
Shannon,  both  of  whom  have  appeared 
in  pictures  that  were  planned  for  Clara. 

Even  the  most  ardent  Constance 
Bennett  fans  are  growing  a  bit  tired  of 
her  repeated  "you  ain't  done  right  by 
our  Nell"  roles.  And  letters  of  sym- 
pathy have  poured  in  for  sister  Joan, 
whose  fall  from  a  horse  has  made  her  a 
temporary  invalid.  Hurry  up  and  get 
well,  Joan;  your  audience  has  missed 
you. 


4.  Walk  with  shoulders  back,  hips  in, 
like  Norma  Shearer. 

Lillie  Mae  Jenkins, 

Chicago,  III. 

Barbara  Stanwyck 

A  FTER  seeing  Barbara  Stanwyck's  per- 
-*Mormance  in  "Night  Nurse"  I  concluded 
that  here  was  a  remarkable  young  actress 
of  unquestionable  ability. 

Then  I  again  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing 
her  in  "The  Miracle  Woman"  and  her  por- 
trayal of  the  evangelist  in  this  picture  is 
even  more  revealing  of  her  talent  and  more 
impressive  than  her  work  in  "Night  Nurse." 
Throughout  "The  Miracle  Woman"  she 
plays  with  understanding  a  difficult  role 
which  might  have  confused  a  less  capable 
actress. 

Helen  Newschwander, 

Newark,  N.  J. 

Barbara  Stanwyck's  fine  performances 
ought  to  make  Garbo  and  Dietrich  feel  like 
amateurs. 

Michael  Daniels, 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 


Metamorphosis 

]"  USED  to  believe  that  at  their  best  the 
■*•  movies  were  merely  entertaining.  Yet 
they  have  accomplished  what  I   could   not. 

Despite  my  constant  efforts  and  admoni- 
tions, when  my  daughter  was  sixteen  she 
invariably  spoke  and  laughed  in  a  boister- 
ous tone.  She  used  truly  objectionable 
slane,  slouched  forward  when  standing  or 
sitting,  and  wore  her  hair  and  clothes  in 
an  extremely  untidy  fashion. 

Then  she  became  interested  in  movies. 
Her  personality  commenced  to  change  per- 
ceptibly. She  was  endeavoring  to  be  like 
the  attractive  heroines  she  saw  and  admired 
in  pictures. 

She  now  possesses  poise,  grace  and 
charm.  The  difference  between  a  tomboy 
and  a  lady  was  a  few  quarters  wisely  spent 
on  selected  movies. 

Mrs.  Robert  Allen, 

Weiser,  Idaho 
[please  turn  to  page  14] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


H.     B.     WARNER 
MARIAN      MARSH 

ANTHONY      BUSHELl 

GEORGE      E.      STONE 

FRANCES       STARR 
Ona   Munson    i    Robert   Elliott 


Frank!  Powerful!  Realistic!  A  heart-stirring 
cross-section  of  modern  life  that  fairly  hammers 

on  the  emotions A  sweeping  drama  of 

pathos  and  passion  —  betrothal  and  betrayal 
—  honor  and  hypocrisy — with  lives  and  loves 
sacrificed  to  the  Juggernaut  of  newspaper  cir- 
culation   Greatest  picture  of  the  year — 

with  the  outstanding  screen  actor  of  the  day, 
and  a  powerful  supporting  cast 


«     «     «     « 


with  the  most  versatile  actor 
on  the  screen  today.. 


Edw.G.ROBINSON 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  &VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


"Vitaphone"  i.«  the  registered  trademark  of  The  Vitaphone  Corporation 


Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  All  Talkie 


■^Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


AFFAIRS     OF     ANNABELLE,     THE— Fox  — 

J^anette  MacDonald  and  Victor  McLaglen  in  a  laugh- 
worthy  farce.    (July) 

•     ALEXANDER   HAMILTON  —  Warners- 
George   Arliss,   need   we  say   more?     Another 
superb  characterization  of  an  historic  figure.  (Aug.) 

ALIAS  THE  BAD  MAN— Tiffany  Prod.— You 
probably  won't  like  this  even  if  you're  a  Western  fan. 
Ken  Mavnard  is  okay — but  you  simply  don't  believe 
that  story.     (Sept.) 

ALWAYS  GOODBYE— Fox.— Elissa  Landi  gives 
a  charming  performance  in  a  rather  ordinary  piece. 
Lewis  Stone  and  Paul  Cavanagh  support  her.  See  la 
Landi.     (July) 

•  AN  AMERICAN  TRAGEDY— Paramount.— 
Dreiser's  great  tragedy  becomes  one  of  the 
month's  best  pictures.  Phillips  Holmes  and  Sylvia 
Sidney  head  a  glorious  cast.  Not  for  the  children. 
(Aug.) 

BACHELOR  APARTMENT— Radio  Pictures.— 
The  superb  direction  and  acting  of  Lowell  Sherman 
make  this  sophisticated  story  interesting  from  start  to 
finish.  Mae  Murray  returns  as  a  modern  vamp,  a 
restless  married  woman.    Splendid  cast.    (May) 

•  BAD  GIRL — Fox. — You'll  laugh  and  cry  over 
this,  made  from  the  novel  of  the  same  name. 
Sally  Eilers  is  all  the  girls  who  live  next  door. 
That  new  kid,  James  Dunn,  bears  watching.  Don't 
miss  this  one.     (Sept.) 

BAD  SISTER— Universal.— Sidney  Fox,  talented 
little  newcomer,  plays  the  title  role  in  this  entirely 
natural  story  based  on  Booth  Tarkington's  "The 
Flirt."    Conrad  Nagel  is  the  hero.    (May) 

BEHIND  OFFICE  DOORS— Radio  Pictures  — 
Mary  Astor  fine  as  the  clever  secretary  who  helps  her 
boss  (Robert  Ames)  to  rise  to  importance  in  the  in- 
dustrial world.     Interesting  story.     (April) 

BEYOND  VICTORY— RKO-Pathe.—  Poor  war 
film,  starring  Bill  Boyd.  ZaSu  Pitts,  Lew  Cody  and 
Jimmy  Gleason  make  the  effort  but  can't  do  much  for 
this  one.     (May) 

BIG  BUSINESS  GIRL— First  National.— Lively 
comedy  of  1931  styles  in  business  and  love.  Plenty  of 
laughs,  some  thrills,  Ricardo  Cortez,  Frank  Albertson 
and  Loretta  Young  in  pretty  clothes.  A  good  movie. 
(May) 

BLACK  CAMEL,  THE— Fox.— Here's  your  old 
pal  Charlie  Chan  (sure,  it's  only  Warner  Oland)  un- 
raveling the  mystery  of  a  movie  star's  murder  in 
Honolulu.  Great  stuff  for  the  mystery-minded  and 
other  folks,  too.     (Sept  ) 

BODY  AND  SOUL— Fox.— See  this  one.  Great 
entertainment.  Charlie  Farrell  and  Elissa  Landi 
(from  the  stage).  You'll  like  her.  Myrna  Loy  is  the 
mean  one.     (April) 

BORN  TO  LOVE— RKO-Pathe.— Ancient  plot 
of  the  war  nurse.  Two  officers  and  whose-baby-is-it 
fails  to  be  highly  entertaining  in  spite  of  the  efforts 
of  Constance  Bennett.     (June) 

•  BOUGHT— Warners.— Connie  Bennett  and 
her  father,  Richard,  rip  off  a  real  picture. 
Elegant  acting,  clothes  you'll  be  ca-razy  for,  and  a 
vivid,  human  story.  Ben  Lyon  does  the  best  work 
of  his  career.     (Sept.) 

BRAT,  THE— Fox.— Remember  Sally  O'Neil? 
What  a  comeback  the  kid  stages  in  this  old  Maude 
Fulton  comedy-drama.  And  what  a  rough  and 
tumble  fight  she  and  Virginia  Cherrill  have!     (Sept.) 

BROAD  MINDED— First  National.— Joe  E. 
Brown  tries  hard  to  bring  a  lot  of  moribund  jokes  and 
gags  back  to  life,  but  there's  scarcely  a  giggle.   (June) 

BY  ROCKET  TO  THE  MOON— UFA.— The 
Germans  present  an  interesting  lesson  in  astronomy, 
if  you  like  astronomy.     (April) 

8 


CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  dull  story 
about  a  Robin-Hoodish  captain  whose  lawless  deeds 
are  all  for  a  good  end.  Victor  Varconi  and  Fay  Wray. 
(July) 

CAUGHT — Paramount. — The  plot  is  pretty  silly. 
Boy  (Dick  Arlen)  finds  mother  (Louise  Dresser)  is 
outlaw  he  was  sent  out  to  get — but  Louise  is  worth 
the  admission.      (Sept.) 

CAUGHT  PLASTERED— Radio  Pictures.— (Re- 
viewed under  the  title  "Full  of  Notions.")  — If  you 
like  Wheeler  and  Woolsey,  don't  let  this  get  by  you, 
for  it's  one  of  their  best  comedies  to  date.     (Sept.) 

CHANCES— First  National.— Young  Doug's  first 
starring  picture  is  a  war  thriller.  The  lad  is  good 
but  the  story  is  so-so.     (July) 

CHARLIE  CHAN  CARRIES  ON— Fox.— Grand 
mystery  with  lots  of  thrills  and  romance.  Warner 
Oland  marvelous  as  Chan.  John  Garrick  and  Mar- 
guerite Churchill  are  the  love  interest.     (April) 


Overnight  He 
Became  a  Star! 

We'll  have  a  great  yarn  for 
you  in  the  next  issue — the 
romantic  story  of 

James  Dunn 

The  Good  Boy  of  "Bad  Girl" 
and  the  latest  He'Cinderella 
sensation  of  Hollywood. 

It's  fascinating,  it's  human 
and  it's  true! 

Remember — get  the 
jSfivember  issue  of 

Photoplay 

Out  everywhere  October  15 


CHILDREN  OF  DREAMS— Warners.— A  musi- 
cal which  you  can  miss  and  think  nothing  of  it. 
(April) 

•  CITY  STREETS  —  Paramount.  —  Absorbing, 
fast-moving  gang  melodrama,  well  directed. 
Gary  Cooper  and  Sylvia  Sidney  (from  the  New  York 
stage)  give  grand  performances.  Don't  miss  it.  (June) 

CLEARING  THE  RANGE— Allied.— Hoot  Gib- 
son and  the  wife,  Sally  Eilers,  in  a  fine  Western  with 
thrills,  laughs  and  plenty  of  action.     (June) 

COMMON  LAW,  THE— RKO-Pathe.— A  poor 
adaptation  of  an  old  favorite  but  Constance  Bennett 
is  worth  seeing.     Sophisticated  fare.  (Aug.) 

COMRADES  OF  1918— Forenfilms.— Gruesome, 
harrowing  German  talkie  follows  the  fortunes  of  four 
young  Teuton  soldiers  in  the  last  year  of  the  late  war. 
Don't  take  the  children.    (May) 


CONFESSIONS  OF  A  CO-ED— Paramount.— 
Not  a  very  convincing  piece  with  Sylvia  Sidney, 
Phillips  Holmes  and  Norman  Foster.  College 
atmosphere.     (Aug.) 

•  CONNECTICUT  YANKEE,  A— Fox.— It's 
better  than  the  silent  version  and  you'll  love 
Will  Rogers.  William  Farnum  and  Myrna  Loy  are 
excellent.  Maureen  O'Sullivan  and  Frank  Albertson 
supply  the  love  interest.     (April) 

CONQUERING  HORDE,  THE— Paramount.— 
Dick  Arlen  makes  this  Western  fine  entertainment. 
Fay  Wray  adorable  as  the  girl.     (April) 

CRACKED  NUTS— Radio  Pictures.— Wheeler 
and  Woolsey  in  a  rush  of  dialogue  to  the  screen,  and 
not  very  good  .dialogue.    Amusing  in  spots.     (April) 

•  DADDY  LONG  LEGS— Fox.— The  beloved 
classic  with  Janet  Gaynor  in  a  r61e  just  suited 
to  her  but  just  a  little  too  saccharine.  Warner  Baxter 
as  the  bachelor.     Take  the  family.     (July) 

DAYBREAK— M-G-M.— The  charming  perform- 
ances of  Helen  Chandler  and  Ramon  Novarro,  as  the 
student  prince,  make  this  romantic  and  wistful  love 
story  well  worth  seeing.     (June) 

DER  GROSSE  TENOR— UFA.— A  slow  moving. 
all-German  talkie  with  Emil  Jannings  in  a  typical 
Jannings  role.     A  song  or  two.     (Aug.) 

•  DIRIGIBLE— Columbia.— Thrilling  melo- 
drama of  adventure  at  the  South  Pole.  The 
Navy  helped  make  it  and  the  airplane  and  dirigible 
shots  leave  you  breathless.  Ralph  Graves,  Jack  Holt 
and  Fay  Wray  take  high  honors.    (May) 

•  DISHONORED— Paramount.—  Marlene 
Dietrich  exciting  as  an  Austrian  spy  in  a  tense 
story,  splendidly  directed.  Victor  McLaglen  great  as 
the  Russian  officer.    (May) 

DOCTORS'  WIVES— Fox.— Joan  Bennett,  War- 
ner Baxter  and  Victor  Varconi  in  a  story  of  jealousy. 
Not  very  convincing.     (April) 

DON'T  BET  ON  WOMEN— Fox.— Husbands, 
wives  and  lovers  mix-up.  Good  adult  entertainment, 
with  smart  dialogue.  Roland  Young,  Edmund  Lowe, 
Jeanette  MacDonald  and  Una  Merkel  make  the  most 
of  their  parts.     (April) 

DRUMS  OF  JEOPARDY,  THE— Tiffany  Prod. 
— Mystery  melodrama  with  enough  murders  to  satisfy 
the  bloodthirsty.  Good  cast  headed  by  Warner  Oland 
and  June  Collyer.     (April) 

DUDE  RANCH— Paramount.— Jack  Oakie  woos 
and  wins  June  Collyer  in  this  hilarious  comedy  on  a 
dude  ranch,  locale  of  many  complications.  Not  a  dull 
moment.     (June) 

•  EAST  LYNNE— Fox. — Don't  miss  this  one. 
Beautiful,  artistic  production  of  the  heart- 
breaking old  melodrama.  Ann  Harding  captivat- 
inglv  beautiful.  Fine  support  by  Conrad  Nagel  and 
Clive  Brook.     (April) 

EAST  OF  BORNEO— Universal.— The  title  tells 
the  story.  Real  Borneo  scenery,  excellent  studio 
"fakes."  Charles  Bickford  and  Rose  Hobart  make 
it  interesting  enough.     (Sept.) 

ENEMIES  OF  THE  LAW— Regal  Prod— Unless 
you  want  to  see  Lou  Tellegen's  brand  new  face-lift, 
you  can  check  this  off  your  list.  Not  even  Mary 
Nolan's  beauty  compensates  for  that  old  formula 
877 — a  gangster  story.     (Sept.) 

EVERYTHING'S  ROSIE— Radio  Pictures.— One 
of  the  talkiest  talkies  yet  released.    (July) 

EX-BAD  BOY— Universal.— If  you  like  gag- 
farce,  you'll  get  a  kick  out  of  this.  Robert  Armstrong 
and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  comedy  acting.     (Aug.) 

EXPENSIVE  WOMEN— Warners.— A  pretty  un- 
happy return  to  the  screen  for  Dolores  Costello.  The 
less  said  about  it  the  better.    (A  ug.) 

•  FAME — First  National. — Beautifully  and  hu- 
manly told  story  of  everyday  people.  Nothing 
spectacular,  but  full  of  charm.  Doris  Kenyon  heads 
a  perfect  cast.     (June) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  10  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


UPYOUR  STREET... 


.  .  .  a  woman 
unfaithful 

...tongues  wagging 
neighbors  pointing 

.  .  .  a  girl  . .  .  she 
knows  her  mother  is 
wronging  her  father 
yet  defends  her.. .for 
she    understands 

This  happens 
on  any  day  UP 
YOUR  STREET... 
on  any  Street... 
in   any  city  .  .  . 


SAMUEL 
GOLDWYN 

presents  ■■ 


STREET  SCENE 

A   United  Artists  Picture  with 

SYLVIA  SIDNEY  -  ESTELLE  TAYLOR- WILLIAM  COLLIER,  Jr. 

Directed  by  King  Vidor  from  Elmer  Rice's  play  of  the  same  name 

As  a  play  "Street  Scene"  won  the  Pulitzer  Prize; 
ran  for  two  solid  years  on  Broadway  and  played  every 
important  city  in  America! 

As  Samuel  GoldwyrTs  outstanding  contribution 
to  the  screen  it  is  even  greater  than  the  stage  play, 
combining  as  it  does  all  the  terrific  heart  appeal  of 
his  success  "Stella  Dallas",  with  the  dramatic  sweep 
of  King  Vidor's  "Big  Parade". 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


FIGHTING  SHERIFF,  THE  —  Columbia.  — 
Recommended  for  dyed-in-the-wool  Western  fans. 
Others  will  find  it  just  average  film  fare.  Buck 
Jones  is  the  hero.     (Sept.) 

FINGER  POINTS,  THE— First  National.— Dick 
Barthelmess  as  a  reporter  for  one  of  Chicago's  biggest 
newspapers,  gets  in  with  gangsters.  An  intensely 
absorbing  story.  Kay  Wray  and  Regis  Toomey  give 
splendid  support.     (May) 

FINN  AND  HATTIE— Paramount.— One  long 
howl.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Haddock's  trip  abroad  ruined  by 
a  fiendish  nephew  and  a  daughter,  played  well  by 
Jackie  Searl  and  Mitzi  Green.     (April) 

FIRST  AID— Sono  Art.— In  which  a  lot  of  people 
— Grant  Withers,  Marjorie  Beebe  and  Wheeler  Oak- 
man — do  a  lot  of  unconvincing  things  unconvinc- 
ingly.      (Sepl.) 

FIVE  AND  TEN—  M-G-M  —  Marion  Davies 
with  a  splendid  cast.  Adapted  from  the  Fannie 
Hurst  story — jerky  in  spots.     (Aug.) 

•  FIVE  STAR  FINAL— First  National— Rush 
to  the  nearest  theater.  You  mustn't  miss 
this  exciting  story  of  tabloid  newspaper  sensa- 
tionalism.     Eddie    Robinson   is  superb.     (Sepl.) 

FLOOD,  THE— Columbia.— A  weak,  poorly 
directed  story  which  the  good  acting  of  Eleanor 
Boardman  and  Monte  Blue  cannot  save.     (July) 

•  FORBIDDEN  ADVENTURE—  (Also  re- 
leased as  Newly  Rich) — Paramount. — An 
entertaining  picture  for  kids  and  grown-ups.  Jackie 
Searl  and  Mitzi  Green  in  some  swell  acting.  Don't 
miss  it.     (Aug.) 

•  FREE  SOUL,  A— M-G-M.— Norma  Shearer 
and  Lionel  Barrymore  in  a  picture  that  will 
hold  you.  but  in  plot  and  treatment  it's  for  grown-ups 
only.     (July) 

•  FRONT  PAGE,  THE— United  Artists.— 
Whirlwind  newspaper  talkie,  full  of  thrills, 
laughs  and  sobs.  You've  simply  got  to  see  it.  Adolphe 
Menjou  great  as  the  managing  editor.     (May) 

GIRL  FROM  THE  REEPERBAHN,  THE 
(DAS  MAEDEL  VON  DER  REEPERBAHN)— Sonor 

Prod. — The  Germans  crash  through  with  a  good 
one.  Grim  melodrama  with  plenty  of  action  and 
some  good  songs.     (April) 

•     GIRL  HABIT,  THE— Paramount— An  up- 
roarious farce  that  boosts  Charles  Ruggles  to 
stardom.    It's  all  laughs.    See  it  I    (Aug.) 

GIRLS  DEMAND  EXCITEMENT— Fox.— Mar- 
guerite Churchill,  John  Wayne,  Virginia  Cherrill  and 
William  Janney  are  a  fine  cast  wasted  in  a  story  that 
never  rings  true.     (April) 

GOD'S  GIFT  TO  WOMEN— Warners.— Frank 
Fay  is  the  gift — Laura  La  Plante  the  receiver,  but 
after  many  hilarious  complications.  Well  worth  see- 
ing.    (May) 

GOLDIE — Fox. — If  you  like  lusty,  gusty  stuff, 
this'll  do.  Spencer  Tracy  and  Warren  Hymer  make 
a  new  comedy  team.     (.4  ug.) 

GOLD  DUST  GERTIE— Warners.— Exuberant 
Winnie  Lightner  gambols  through  a  poor  story.  (July) 


GOOD  BAD  GIRL,  THE— Columbia— The  old 
plot  of  the  girl  who  leaves  the  racket  to  marry  and  go 
straight.     (July) 

GREAT  LOVER,  THE  —  M-G-M.  —  Adolphe 
Menjou  breaks  hearts.  Irene  Dunne  breaks  into 
song.      Both  do  good  jobs.     (Sepl.) 

GUILTY  HANDS— M-G-M.— That  Lionel  Barry- 
more — how  he  can  act!  You  know  he  is  the  murderer, 
but  will  they  discover  his  guilt?  You'd  better  find 
out.     (Sepl.) 

GUN  SMOKE— Paramount.— Great  for  the  kids, 
this  old-time  Western  melodrama,  with  Dick  Arlen  as 
a  cowboy,  Mary  Brian,  the  girl,  and  William  Boyd, 
the  menace.     (May) 

HELL  BOUND— Cruze-Tiffany  Prod.— Good  gang 
story  if  you're  not  tired  of  them.  Leo  Carrillo  plays 
the  broken-Englished  speakeasy  operator  and  Lola 
Lane  is  completely  charming.     (April) 

HELL'S  VALLEY— National  Players,  Ltd.— Very 
little  story,  if  any,  but  lots  of  riding  and  shooting  in 
this  Western,  with  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  Wally  Wales 
and  Vivian  Rich  sharing  the  acting  honors.     (June) 

HIGH  STAKES— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  an  amateur  detective  is  the  main  reason  for 
seeing  this.  Mae  Murray  is  the  woman  in  the  case. 
(July) 

HOLE  IN  THE  WALL,  THE  (Nar  Rosorna 
Sla  Ut)  —  Paramount.  —  Swedish  talkie  brings  us 
Sven  Gustafsson,  Garbo's  brother,  but  nothing  like 
his  famous  sister.  Light  and  chatty  love  story. 
(April) 

HOLY  TERROR,  A— Fox.— A  two-fisted  West- 
ern with  George  O'Brien.  Good,  wholesome  enter- 
tainment.   (Aug.) 

HONEYMOON  LANE— Sono  Art.— Not  a  great 
picture,  but  a  delightful  one.  A  nice  romance  be- 
tween Eddie  Dowling  (who  sings)  and  June  Collyer. 
And  that  swell  comic,  Ray  Dooley.     (Sep!.) 

HONOR  AMONG  LOVERS— Paramount.— 
Good  dialogue  in  this  story  of  love  between  boss  and 
secretary,  with  excellent  performances  by  Fredric 
March,  Claudette  Colbert  and  that  Ace  of  Cads, 
Monroe  Owsley.     (May) 

HUSH  MONEY— Fox.— Another  gangster  film 
and  not  a  very  thrilling  one.  Joan  Bennett  and 
Hardie  Albright  try  hard.     (Aug.) 

I  LIKE  YOUR  NERVE  —  First  National.— 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  acts  just  like  his  father  did 
in  "The  Americano."  He  does  it  well,  too.  The 
story  is  weak.     (Sepl.) 

INDISCREET  —  United  Artists.  —  Good,  enter- 
taining story.  Gloria  Swanson  sings  well.  Ben  Lyon 
and  Arthur  Lake  great  support.     (June) 

IRON  MAN — Universal. — Lew  Ayres  is  starred  as 
the  prize-fighter  but  Bob  Armstrong,  in  the  role  of 
manager,  steals  the  picture.  Jean  Harlow  plays  her 
usual  vamp  role.     (June) 

I  TAKE  THIS  WOMAN— Paramount.— A 
wheezy  old  plot  dressed  up  for  Gary  Cooper  and 
Carole  Lombard.     Just  another  movie.'  (Aug.) 


IT  PAYS  TO  ADVERTISE— Paramount.— The 
old  stage  play  revamped  for  the  talkies  with  plenty 
of  speed  and  lots  of  laughs.  Skeets  Gallagher,  Nor- 
man Foster  and  Carole  Lombard  head  a  perfect  cast. 
(April) 

•  IT'S  A  WISE  CHILD— M-G-M.— Marion 
Davies'  rare  gift  for  comedy  and  Robert 
Leonard's  direction  make  this  old  stage  play  a  brand 
new  hilarious  farce  not  to  be  missed.    (May) 

JUNE  MOON— Paramount.— You'll  like  this  one. 
Ring  Lardner  wrote  the  wisecracking  lines  and  Jack 
Oakie  puts  them  over  with  a  bang.     (April) 

JUST  A  GIGOLO— M-G-M.— William  Haines  in 
a  spicy,  amusing  offering.  But  leave  the  children  at 
home.     (July) 

KEPT  HUSBANDS— Radio  Pictures.— Lively  en- 
tertainment. Dorothy  Mackaill  and  Joel  McCrea  an 
attractive  pair  and  the  still  beautiful  Clara  Kimball 
Young  returns  to  us.     (April) 

KICK  IN — Paramount. — They  tried  hard  to  make 
Clara  Bow  dramatic,  sympathetic  and  emotional  in 
this  one.     Regis  Toomey  is  great.     (July) 

*KIKI — United  Artists. — Presenting  a  new 
Mary  Pickford,  saucy  and  sophisticated  in  a 
grand  comedy.  You  can  safely  take  the  kids.  Regi- 
nald Denny  is  the  lead.     (April) 

LADIES'  MAN— Paramount.— William  Powell  as 
a  sympathetic  and  attractive  gigolo,  charms  Olive 
Tell,  Carole  Lombard  and  Kay  Francis.  Entertain- 
ing picture.   (June) 

LADY  REFUSES,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— If  you 
want  a  good  cry,  here's  your  chance.  Rather  an  old 
story,  but  Betty  Compson,  Gilbert  Emery  and  John 
Darrow  make  it  realistic.     (A  pril) 

LASCA  OF  THE  RIO  GRANDE— Universal.— 

Just  another  Western — but  this  one  is  South  of  the 
Rio  Grande.  Fair  entertainment  with  Johnny  Mack 
Brown,  Leo  Carillo  and  Dorothy  Burgess.     (Sepl.) 

LAST  PARADE,  THE— Columbia.— Another 
gangster  picture  and  good  too.  with  thrills,  suspense, 
romance  and  laughs.  Jack  Holt  and  Tom  Moore  are 
rivals  for  Constance  Cummings'  favor.  Jack  wins. 
(May) 

LAUGH  AND  GET  RICH— Radio  Pictures.— 
Misadventures  of  a  boarding  house  mistress,  played 
by  Edna  May  Oliver,  and  her  chronically  tired  hubby, 
Hugh  Herbert.    Good  for  plenty  of  laughs.    (May) 

LAUGHING  SINNERS— M-G-M.— Not  so  good, 
but  if  you  are  a  Joan  Crawford  fan  you  may  like  it. 
Clark  Gable  and  Neil  Hamilton,  too.     (Aug.) 

LAWLESS  WOMAN,  THE— Chesterfield  Pic- 
tures.— An  uninteresting,  unimportant  film.  A 
gangster-newspaper  plot,  poorly  done.     (Aug.) 

•  LAWYER'S  SECRET,  THE— Paramount.— 
Clive  Brook.  Charles  Rogers,  Richard  Arlen, 
Fay  Wray  and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  performances. 
Intense  drama.     (July) 

*LE   MILLION— Tobis   Production.— It's  not 
necessary  to   understand  the  language  to  get 
all  the  fun  out  of  this  French  musical  farce.     (Aug.) 
[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  12  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list. 


Page 

Age  for  Love,  The— Caddo 104 

Branded — Columbia 104 

Business  and  Pleasure — Fox 48 

Daughter  of  the  Dragon — Paramount..  104 

Express  13— UFA 105 

Fanny  Foley  Herself — Radio  Pictures..  51 
Friends  and  Lovers — Radio  Pictures. .  .  104 
Gay  Diplomat,  The — Radio  Pictures .  .   50 

Graft — Universal 104 

Guardsman,  The— M-G-M 49 

Hard  Hombre,  The— Allied 104 


Page 

Huckleberry  Finn — Paramount 48 

Immortal  Vagabond,  The— UFA 104 

Larceny  Lane — Warners 49 

Last  Flight,  The— First  National 104 

Men  Are  Like  That  (also  shown  under 

title  "Arizona") — Columbia 104 

Monkey  Business — Paramount 51 

Mother  and  Son — Monogram  Prod ....  104 
Murder  at  Midnight— Tiffany  Prod  ...  104 

Palmy  Days — United  Artists 48 

Pardon  Us— Hal  Roach— M-G-M 105 

Private  Scandal,  A — Headline  Prod .  .  .  104 


Page 

Road  to  Singapore,  The — Warners.  ...   50 

Sidewalks  of  New  York— M-G-M 50 

Silence — Paramount 50 

Skyline — Fox 50 

Smart  Woman — Radio  Pictures 51 

Spider,  The — Fox 51 

Street  Scene- — United  Artists 49 

Sundown  Trail— RKO-Pathe 104 

Thirteen  Men  and  a  Girl— UFA 104 

Unholy  Garden,  The— United  Artists. .   51 

West  of  Broadway— M-G-M 51 

Wicked— Fox 50 


10 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


I  I 


Three  ways  to  fight  decay! 

Remove  film . . .  eat  right 
See  your  dentist 


Film 


is  found  by  dental 

research    to    play    an 

important   part  in    tooth 

decay  .  .  to  cause  unsightly 

stains  on  enamel.  It   must  be 

removed  twice  daily. 


WIPE  out  decay  !  That  is  the 
goal  of  modern  dentistry. 
Here  are  three  rules  for  you  to  fol- 
low in  helping  you  attain  it. 

First,  drink  plenty  of  orange 
juice,  eat  other  citrus  fruits,  fresh 
vegetables  and  tomatoes.  Diet  helps 
to  keep  your  teeth  and  gums  strong 
and  healthy  —  increase  their  "dis- 
ease-resistance." 

Next,  go  to  your  dentist  twice  a 
year  or  oftener.  Have  him  remove 
the  tartar  deposits  that  develop  at 
the  gum  line  and  become  a  con- 
stant source  of  irritation. 

Remove  film 

Last,  but  of  prime  importance,  re- 
move film  from  teeth  twice  daily. 
Film  is  the  basis  of  tartar.  It  in- 
vites dental  troubles.  In  it  are  germs 
believed  to  cause  decay. 


Film  is  not  easy  to  remove  from 
teeth.  It  clings  like  glue  and  defies 
all  ordinary  ways  of  brushing.  That 
is  why  Pepsodent  was  developed. 

Pepsodent  removes  film  thor- 
oughly, completely.  Its  unique  ac- 
tion is  due  to  a  revolutionary  pol- 
ishing and  cleansing  agent.  One 
that  is  extremely  smooth  and  fine 
— twice  as  soft  as  that  commonly 
used  in  other  tooth  pastes.  It  is 
supremely  safe  for  the  delicate 
teeth  of  children. 

Safe!  Supremely  gentle 

Yet  with  all  its  softness  this  new 
agent  excels  all  others  in  cleansing 
teeth  and  polishing  enamel. 

So  if  you  seek  glorious  health  in 
teeth  and  gums  as  well  as  loveliness 
—  eat  right,  use  Pepsodent,  see 
your  dentist  twice  a  year. 


INCLUDE  THESE  IN 
YOUR  DIET: 


One  or  two  eggs, 
depending  on 
your  age. 


Raw  fruit  and  fresh 
vegetables  you  like. 


Head  lettuce, 
cabbage  or 
celery. 


Vi  lemon  mixed 
with  orange  juice 
to  make  1  pint. 


Plenty  of  milk 
every  day. 


USE  PEPSODENT  TWICE  A  DAY- SEE  YOUR  DENTIST  TWICE  A  YEAR 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  10  J 


LIGHTNING  FLYER,  THE— Columbia.— Jimmy 
Hall  as  the  wild  young  son,  who  makes  good  and  wins 
the  love  of  a  good  woman — Dorothy  Sebastian.  Not 
so  good;  then  again,  not  so  bad.    (May) 

LITTLE  CAFE,  THE  (Le  Petit  Cafe)— Para- 
mount.— Chevalier's  French  version  of  "Playboy  of 
Paris"  and  simply  great.  Gay  and  charming  with 
more  songs  added  and  his  wife,  Yvonne  Vallee. 
(April) 

•  LONELY  WIVES— Pathe  —  Edward  Everett 
Horton  great,  in  a  side-splitting  farce.  Patsy 
Ruth  Miller,  Esther  Ralston  and  Laura  La  Plante 
are  the  girls  involved.     (April) 

LOVE  HABIT,  THE— British  International- 
British  conception  of  a  French  bedroom  farce.  Very 
heavy.     (A  pril) 

LOVER  COME  BACK— Columbia.— Betty  Bron- 
son  changing  her  type  with  rather  sorry  results.  (A  ug.) 

LULLABY,  THE—  M-G-M  —  Your  old  friend 
"Madame  X"  dressed  up  in  none  too  new  garments. 
What  a  shame  that  capable  Helen  Hayes  had  to  make 
her  film  debut  in  this  trite  story.      (Sept.) 

MAD  GENIUS,  THE— Warners.— Magnificently 
produced  and  photographed,  but  John  Barrymore's 
artistry  is  so  perfect  in  an  unsympathetic  role  that  the 
story  leaves  a  bad  taste.     (July) 

MAD  PARADE,  THE— Liberty  Productions. — 
The  woman's  side  of  the  war  done  brilliantly  by  an 
all-feminine  cast.     (July) 

MAGNIFICENT  LIE,  THE— Paramount.— Not 
up  to  the  standard  of  most  Ruth  Chatterton  films.  But 
there's  a  new  young  man  named  Ralph  Bellamy 
who  is  particularly  good.     (Sept.) 

•  MALTESE  FALCON,  THE  —  Warners.  — 
Gripping  mystery  story  from  the  novel  by  the 
same  name.  The  sleek  Ricardo  Cortez  plays  the 
demon  detective  superbly  and  Bebe  Daniels  does  ex- 
cellent work.     Don't  miss  it.     (June) 

MAN  IN  POSSESSION,  THE— M-G-M  — 
Robert  Montgomery  in  a  spicy  comedy  full  of  situa- 
tions and  sparkling  lines.     Amusing.     (Aug.) 

MAN  OF  THE  WORLD— Paramount.— Good 
picture;  not  much  action  but  plenty  of  drama  and  a 
great  performance  by  William  Powell.  Carole  Lom- 
bard is  the  lovely  heroine.    (May) 

MEET  THE  WIFE— Columbia.— Lew  Cody  and 
Laura  La  Plante  excellent  in  a  hilarious  farce  taken 
from  the  old  stage  play.     Plenty  of  laughs.     (June) 

MEN  CALL  IT  LOVE— M-G-M.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Among the  Married.")  Sophisticated 
story  of  married  life  in  the  country  club  set.  Adolphe 
Menjou  excellent.  Norman  Foster  and  Leila  Hyams 
good  as  the  young  lovers.  Not  for  the  children.  (April) 

MEN  OF  THE  SKY— First  National.— Yep,  it's 
an  aviation  war  story — but  it's  pretty  flimsy  stuff. 
Irene  Delroy  and  Jack  Whiting.     (Sept.) 

•  MERELY  MARY  ANN— Fox.— Take  your 
hankie  to  this  one,  but  be  sure  to  go.  Not 
since  "7th  Heaven"  have  Charlie  Farrell  and  Janet 
Gaynor  been  so  whimsical  and  idyllic.      (Sept.) 

MERRY  WIVES  OF  VIENNA,  THE— Super 
Film. — Even  if  you  no  speak  Deulsch,  you'll  enjoy 
this.  Rippling  waltzes  and  sparkling  gayety  make 
this  foreign  film  worthwhile.     (Sept.) 

MIDNIGHT  SPECIAL,  THE— Chesterfield  Prod. 
■ — Nothing  new,  but  plenty  of  excitement.  Good  for 
the  kids.     (April) 

•  MILLIONAIRE,  THE— Warners.— George 
Arliss — need  we  say  more?  This  time  he  plays 
a  wealthy  American  automobile  manufacturer.  Eva- 
lyn  Knapp  is  the  attractive  daughter  and  David 
Manners,  the  business  partner.    See  it.    (May) 

•  MIRACLE  WOMAN,  THE— Columbia.— 
A  well  staged,  directed,  and  photographed 
picture  with  Barbara  Stanwyck  doing  her  best  work 
as  a  female  evangelist.     (Aug.) 

MONSTERS  OF  THE  DEEP— Nat.  Spitzer 
Prod. — Fishing  adventures  in  Magdalena  Bay,  off  the 
Mexican  coast,  where  mammoth  fish  abound.  For 
fish  fans.     (July) 

MR.  LEMON  OF  ORANGE— Fox— El  Brendel, 
starring,  in  some  mistaken  identity  stuff.  Riotously 
funny  in  spots,  and  Fifi  Dorsay  helps  a  lot.      (May) 

12 


MURDER     BY     THE     CLOCK— Paramount.— 

With  such  a  cast,  headed  by  Lilyan  Tashman,  this 
should  have  been  swell.  But  alas!  and  alack!  this 
gruesome,  murder  story  is  nothing  but  gruesome. 
(Sept.) 

MYSTERY  OF  LIFE,  THE— Classic— Clarence 
Darrow  and  a  Smith  College  zoology  professor  ex- 
plain evolution.  Uh-huh,  it's  as  dull  as  it  sounds. 
(Sept.) 

NEVER  THE  TWAIN  SHALL  MEET— M-G-M. 

— Lavishly  produced  remake  of  the  old  silent,  but 
not  nearly  so  good.  Leslie  Howard  great  in  some 
scenes.     (June) 

NEWLY  RICH— See  FORBIDDEN  ADVEN- 
TURE. 

NIGHT  ANGEL,  THE— Paramount.— A  bad 
display  for  the  talents  of  Nancy  Carroll  and  Fredric 
March.    (Aug.) 

•  NIGHT  NURSE— Warners.— Drag  out  your 
pet  adjectives,  go  see  this  and  use  'em.  It's 
great.  Barbara  Stanwyck,  Ben  Lyon  and  a  grand 
cast.    (Aug.) 

NOT  EXACTLY  GENTLEMEN— Fox— Three 
men's  battles  for  a  map,  a  girl  (Fay  Wray)  and 
riches.  Top-notch  entertainment.  Victor  McLaglen, 
Lew  Cody  and  Eddie  Gribbon  share  acting  honors. 
(April) 

PAGLIACCI— Audio  Cinema  Prod.— Bad  grand 
opera  poorly  transferred  to  the  screen.    (May) 


Picture  Puzzle 
Fans 

Solution  in  Photoplay's 
popular  contest  are  pouring 
into  Photoplay's  office  and 
the  judges  are  ready  to  start 
their  work  after  midnight, 
September  20,  the  deadline 
for  entries. 

Winners  will  be  an' 
nounced  in  the  January  1932, 
issue  of  Photoplay,  on  sale 
on  or  about  December  10. 


•  PARLOR,  BEDROOM  AND  BATH— 
M-G-M.— It's  a  howl,  this  farce.  Buster  Kea- 
ton  and  Charlotte  Greenwood  race  for  honors.  As  a 
heavy  lover,  Buster  is  amazing.     (April) 

PARTY  HUSBAND— First  National.— Dorothy 
Mackaill  and  James  Rennie  work  hard  as  the  newly- 
weds,  but  the  story  is  weak.     (June) 

•  POLITICS  —  M-G-M.  —  Polly  Moran  and 
Marie  Dressier  start  you  off  with  a  giggle  and 
you'll  laugh  all  the  way  through  the  picture.  Don't 
miss  these  two  attempting  to  clean  up  the  town. 
(Sept.) 

PUBLIC  DEFENDER,  THE— Radio  Pictures. 
■ — After  "Cimarron"  you  expect  too  much  of  Richard 
Dix.  That's  why  this  story  of  a  man  who  brings  a 
gang  of  crooks  to  justice  is  disappointing.     (Sept.) 

PUBLIC  ENEMY,  THE— Warners.— A  gangster 
picture  that  is  lining  the  thrill-seekers  up  at  the  box- 
office.     (June) 

•  QUICK  MILLIONS  —  Fox.  —  Another  excel- 
lent gangster  picture  if  you  go  for  them.  Spen- 
cer Tracy  is  the  leader  of  the  racketeers,  and  you'll 
like  Sally  Eilers.     (June) 

REBOUND—  RKO-Pathe  —  Not  in  the  big  amuse- 
ment class  but  worth  seeing.  Ina  Claire  and  Robert 
Ames.    (Aug.) 


RECKLESS  HOUR,  THE— First  National.— An 
old  story  with  a  few  new  twists.  Dorothy  Mackaill 
and  a  good  cast.     Just  fair.     (Aug.) 

RIDER  OF  THE  PLAINS,  A— Syndicate- 
Grand  old  Western  full  of  hokum,  and  a  happy, 
happy  ending.    (May) 

RIDIN*  FOOL,  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Great 
little  Western.  Will  furnish  the  kids  with  plenty  of 
thrills.     (April) 

ROAD  TO  SINGAPORE,  THE— M-G-M.— (Re- 
viewed under  the  title  "Cheri  Bibi.")  Jack  Gilbert 
in  an  entertaining  drama.  Lots  of  tragedy,  but  a 
happy  ending  and  Leila  Hyams  as  the  heroine.  Well 
worth  seeing.     (June) 

SALVATI  ON  NELL— Tiffany-Cruze.— Religion 
and  sentiment  are  pretty  obvious  in  this  out-of-date 
story,  but  Helen  Chandler  and  Ralph  Graves  make 
you  believe  every  word  of  it.     (Sept.) 

•  SECRET  CALL,  THE— Paramount.— Peggy 
Shannon,  who  pinch-hits  for  Clara  Bow  in 
this  one,  scores  a  solid  hit.  It's  a  political  story  with 
love  interest.    Dick  Aden  excellent.       (Sept.) 

•  SECRET  SIX,  THE— M-G-M.— Still  another 
gang  story  but  with  more  humor.  Splendid 
cast,  includes  Wallace  Beery,  Lewis  Stone,  Clark 
Gable,  Johnny  Mack  Brown  and  Jean  Harlow.  (June) 

•  SECRETS  OF  A  SECRETARY— Paramount. 
— The  actors  make  this  worth  the  price. 
Claudette  Colbert  is  fine  and  that  Herbert  Marshall, 
from  the  stage,  is  one  of  those  men  you  don't  forget. 
(Sept.) 

•  SEED — Universal. — Interesting  and  realistic 
story  based  on  Charles  Norris'  novel.  John 
Boles  doesn't  sing  but  his  acting  is  superb.  Lois 
Wilson  and  Genevieve  Tobin  both  excellent.  Don't 
miss  it.     (June) 

SHERLOCK   HOLMES*    FATAL   HOUR  — 

Warners- First  Division. —  British-made  mystery  film, 
rather  long-drawn-out  but  not  lacking  in  interest. 
Sh  rlock  Holmes  and  Watson  solve  another  murder 
mystery.     (Sept.) 

•  SHE-WOLF,  THE— Liberty  Prod.— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Mother's  Millions")— Humor, 
pathos,  bright  dialogue  and  splendid  acting  make 
this  a  delightfully  entertaining  story.  May  Robson 
is  the  mother.     (April) 

SHIPMATES— M-G-M.— Plenty  of  pep  and  ac- 
tion, plus  the  United  States  Navy,  make  this  a  veri- 
table gale  of  laughter  from  beginning  to  end.  Robert 
Montgomery  heads  the  cast.     (June) 

SHIPS  OF  HATE— Trem  Carr—  Murder  and 
gruesomeness  on  shipboard.  Just  fair.  Don't  pass 
up  game  a  of  bridge  for  it.     (Aug.) 

SIDE  SHOW— Warners.— Winnie  Lightner  and 
Charles  Butterworth  try  hard,  but  the  un-funny 
lines  are  distressing.     A  circus  story.     (Sept.) 

SINGLE  SIN,  THE— Tiffany  Prod.— Nothing 
new,  but  splendidly  handled.  Kay  Johnson  does  some 
fine  acting.  Bert  Lytell,  Mathew  Betz  and  Paul 
Hurst  lend  good  support.     (April) 

6  CYLINDER  LOVE— Fox.— An  amusing  farce 
with  a  pretty  obvious  plot.     (July) 

SKIN  GAME,  THE— British  International. — 
Pretty  tedious.  An  excellent  English  cast,  however. 
(Sept.) 

•  SKIPPY— Paramount.— Jackie  Cooper  as 
Skippy,  and  Bobby  Coogan  as  Sooky  entirely 
lovable  in  this  grand  picture  based  on  Percy  Crosby's 
famous  comic  strip.  Young  and  old  alike  will  love  it. 
(May) 

SKY  RAIDERS,  THE— Columbia.— Gangsters  in 
the  air!  Thrilling  stuff  and  good  entertainment. 
(July) 

•     SMART  MONEY— Warners.— Moves  as  fast 
as  the   money  on   the   gambling  tables   in   it. 
Plenty  of  laughs  and  excitement.     (July) 

•  SMILING  LIEUTENANT,  THE  —  Para- 
mount.— One  of  the  breeziest  and  most  tuneful 
entertainments  in  a  long  time.  Chevalier  at  his  best, 
under  Lubitsch  direction.     See  it.     (July) 

SON  OF  INDIA— M-G-M.— A  fairy-tale  sort  of 
thing   with    Ramon    Novarro   as    Prince   Charming. 
If  you  like  Oriental  romance,  this  is  it!     (Aug.) 
I  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  122  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Always  some  excuse  to  leave 

her . . .  until  she  ended  fB.  O. ' 


"IF  only  people  would  be  more  sociable" 
X  she  thought.  But  they  never  seemed 
to  have  the  time.  Pleasant  enough  to  meet 
for  a  minute  or  two.  But  they  never  lingered 
long  in  her  company — seldom  invited  her 
twice  to  their  homes. 

Then  she  made  a  startling  discovery.  For 
months — years,  perhaps — she  had  been  of- 
fending and  didn't  know  it!  .  .  .  Now  she  has 
adopted  a  simple  safeguard  against  "B.O." 
— body  odor.  She  has  many  friends,  a  happy 
social  life.  "B.O."  no  longer  keeps  her 
lonely  and  unpopular. 

We  offend  unknowingly 

If  "B.O."  only  hurt  like  a  toothache,  then 
we'd  know  when  we  are  guilty.  But  we  get 
no  warning.  Though  pores  give  off  as  much 
as  a  quart  of  odor-causing  waste  daily,  we 


(Body  Odor) 

get  so  used  to  this  ever-present  odor  that 
we  don't  notice  it  in  ourselves! 

But  with  Lifebuoy  you  can  be  sure  of  not 
offending.  Pores  are  purified — every  trace  of 
odor  banished  by  its  creamy,  penetrating, 
purifying  lather.  Like  millions  of  others, 
you'll  revel  in  this  delightful  soap  that  leaves 
you  feeling  so  fresh — so  gloriously  clean. 

Want  a  good  complexion? 

There's  no  better  beauty  treatment  to  be 
found  than  regular  cleansing  with  Lifebuoy. 
Its  gentle,  yet  searching,  lather  frees  tiny 
pores  of  clogged  impurities — brings  back 
fresh  healthy  radiance  to  dull  sallow  skins. 
Its  pleasant,  extra-clean  scent — that  vanishes 
as  you  rinse — tells  you  Lifebuoy  purifies. 
Adopt  Lifebuoy  today. 

LEVER  BROTHERS  CO..  Cambridge.  Matt. 


New! 


JLtfeouou 

SHAVING     CREAM 


DUO 


This  double  -  dense  lather 
shields  tender  spots — gives 
the  quickest,  slickest  shave 
ever.  At  your  druggist**. 


stops  body  odor 


The   Audience   Speaks    Its    Mind 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  6  ] 


A  New  "Sheik"? 

A  lot  of  discussion  seems  to  be  going  on  con- 
cerning the  making  of  a  talkie  version  of 
Valentino's  famous  "The  Sheik."  As  candi- 
dates for  the  n'<le,  my  choice  rests  between 
Ricardo  Cortez  and  Clark  Gable. 

V.  Lamar  Gresham, 
Crowley,  La. 

What  shadow  of  a  doubt  can  there  be  of 
Clark  Gable's  suitability  for  the  role  in  ''The 
Sheik"  that  was  played  by  Rudolph  Valentino 
in  the  silent  picture? 

Rose  Berliner, 
New  York  City,  N.  V. 

I  think  Clark  Gable  would  be  wonderful 
as  The  Sheik. 

J.  Masterpole, 
Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

Table  Chit-Chat 

The  movies  are  a  lifesaver  in  many  ways.  If 
you  should  be  at  a  dinner  party  and  your  noble 
attempts  to  discuss  physiology,  sociology  or 
similar  subjects  meet  with  ennui,  you  can  in- 
variably awaken  your  dinner  partner  to  vivid 
animation  with  the  simple  question,  "Who  is 
your  favorite  movie  star? "  This  discussion, 
believe  it  or  not,  is  America's  greatest  indoor 
sport. 

Mary  A.  Dor  an, 
Miami,  Arizona 

Teachers  Say: 

Three  years  ago  I  began  teaching  school. 
Just  out  of  Normal  training,  I  thought  I  knew 
it  all  in  regard  to  handling  children.  I  soon 
found  out  differently. 

After  seeing  "Skippy"  the  other  night,  I 
have  a  better  understanding  of  the  Sookys  and 
Skippys  of  our  world.  The  moving  pictures, 
I'm  sure,  have  made  hundreds  of  other  teachers 
more  sympathetic  in  dealing  with  children. 

H.  COLEN  COWELL, 

Pennsboro,  W.  Va. 

How  much  the  movies  do  help  in  school! 
The  day  after  the  children's  matinee  showing 
of  a  picture  such  as  "  Cimarron"  at  least 
fifteen  minutes  of  the  history  class  is  devoted  to 
an  eager  discussion  of  the  historical  features  and 
the  story  of  the  picture. 

Films  of  this  sort  make  teaching  easier. 
Laurabell  Schutt, 

Champaign,  111. 

Constance  Bennett 

Hollywood's  idea  of  a  joke — paying  Con- 
stance Bennett  $30,000  a  week  and  then 
wasting  her  on  such  a  cheap  story  as  "Born  to 
Love."  It  was  cruel  to  put  her  in  such  a  long, 
drawnout  picture,  making  her  suffer  every  inch 
of  the  film.  A  lesser  actress  than  Bennett 
would  surely  have  fallen  down  on  that. 

Bennett  is  as  great  as  Garbo  or  Dietrich — if 
she  were  given  better  stories,  she  could  be  even 
greater. 

Eleanor  Stewart, 
Braintree,  Mass. 

Let's  see  more  of  Connie  Bennett.  In  my 
opinion  she  is  the  best  actress  in  the  movies, 
today. 

With  that  rich,  cultured  voice  she  out-acts 
any  Garbo,  Dietrich  or  Harding. 

Joan  Maley, 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 

u 


Here  and  There 

What  has  happened  to  Alice  White?  Given 
a  chance,  she  could  be  a  real  star. 

Frances  Thompson, 
Montgomery,  Ala. 

Ronald    Colman's    pictures    are    the    most 
sparkling  and  cleanest  produced,  the  kind  you 
could  invite  the  minister  and  his  wife  to. 
Dixie  Hunter, 
River  Edge,  N.  J. 

Do  let  us  have  Dennis  King  back  again.  He 
has  a  charming  speaking  voice,  glamour  and 
everything. 

As  a  pleasant  change  from  sophistication, 
divorce  themes,  gangster  and  war  films,  give  us 


Seymour  rates  satin  as  one  of  the  best 
formal  fabrics.  This  charming  black 
satin  frock  of  Lilyan  Tashman's  then 
rates  high  in  fashion  value.  It  has  a 
flattering  silhouette — and  the  scarf 
arrangement  at  the  neckline  is  cer- 
tainly different 


Dennis   King  in  pictures  with  romance  and 
beauty. 

D.  I.  Sparkes, 
Verdun,  Canada 

Please  give  us  more  pictures  like  "Seed." 
This  is  the  best  and  most  realistic  picture  I 
have  seen  this  year.  Lois  Wilson  was  wonder- 
ful. 

Mrs.  Boren, 
Dayton,  Ohio 

Hardie  Albright  was  splendid  in  "Young 
Sinners."  I  expect  to  see  him  a  very  brilliant 
star  soon. 

Janice  Allen, 
Opelousas,  La. 

Buddy  Rogers'  performance  in  "The 
Lawyer's  Secret"  proves  that  the  answer  to 
Photoplay's  recent  article  about  him,  "Am  I 
an  Actor?"  is — yes! 

E.  Rossmann, 
Milwaukee,  Wis. 

Evelyn  Brent  is  a  charming  actress.  She  is 
beautiful,  too,  and  has  the  most  classic  profile 
on  the  screen. 

Winifred  Gibbs, 
Thornton  Heath,  Surrey,  England 

We  are  glad  to  see  Ricardo  Cortez  back 

where  he  belongs,  among  the  stars. 

Helena  Bond, 
Tacoma,  Wash. 

Make-Believe 

Several  evenings  each  week  I  am  a  beautiful, 
glamorous  young  woman.  I  wear  gorgeous 
clothes,  have  a  smart,  becoming  coiffure,  and  a 
low-pitched,  cultured  voice. 

In  reality  I  am  an  ordinary  young  woman  in 
ordinary  circumstances.  But,  by  squeezing 
out  the  necessary  half  dollars  I  spend  several 
hours  at  a  movie,  losing  myself  in  the  wonderful 
world  of  imagination. 

Miss  E.  White, 
Oakland,  Calif. 

Newsreels 

Reading  about  news  events  is  merely  read- 
ing, but  the  newsreel  actually  takes  you  to  the 
scene  of  the  important  happening. 

Joan  W.  Parks, 

Miami,  Fla. 

Talkie  Distractions 

I  want  to  protest  the  undercurrent  of  music 
throughout  talking  scenes.  How  we  strain  our 
ears  to  hear  what  is  being  said!  Sometimes 
lines  that  should  be  heard  in  order  to  under- 
stand the  plot  are  drowned  out. 

A.  L.  Btrton, 
Rock  Island,  111. 

Joan  Crawford 

I  think  Joan  Crawford  is  the  best  actress  on 
the  screen.  She  has  more  expression  in  those 
tragic  eyes  than  most  people  have  in  their 
whole  face. 

Joy  Miller, 
Wenatchee,  Wash. 

Chiding  Norma 

Connie  Bennett  and  Lil  Tashman  are  the 
best  dressed  women  of  the  screen,  in  my 
opinion.  Jean  Harlow  and  Norma  Shearer  vie 
for  honors  as  the  best  z»!dressed. 

Mrs.  E.  Campbell, 

Troy,  Ohio 
[  please  turn  to  page  117  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


15 


ALONG 


T     H     E 


HIGHROAD 


O     F 


LIFE 


ON  THE  THRESHOLD 

**//  ivas  coming  out  into  life  and  all 
that  life  holds  for  me,  all  I've  dreamed 
of.  J  uas  happier  than  I've  ever  been 
before.   I  know  you  n  til  understand.  " 

Ji  he  ivords  Jlotv  upon  the 
paper  almost  as  if  they  were  whispered.  The 
intimacy  of  her  presence  is  in  the  soft-toned 
sheets.  To  the  one  who  is  far  away,  her  chosen 
Eaton's  Highland  paper  brings  so  much  more 
than  the  written  confidence.  In  the  texture  of 
it,  in  the  gentle  sound  of  its  unfolding,  it  brings 
something  of  herself . . .  Letters  are  meetings  of 
two  who  are  parted,  along  the  highroad  of  life, 
marking  the  great  events  and  the  small.  For  th  is 
service,  Eaton's  Highland  writing  papers  have 
been  preferred  for  many  years.  Eaton,  Crane 
it  Pike  Company,  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts. 


EATON'S 

HIGHLAND 

Linen  and  Vellum 

WRITING  PAPERS 


The  writing  papers  illustrated  are  Eaton's  Highland  Linen  —  the 
letter  paper,  and  the  correspondence  cards.  In  u  hit**  and  colors.  Eaton  's 
Wzhltind  Linen  and  its  companion  paper,  Eaton's  Highland  lillum.  a 
smooth-surface  paper,  may  he  had  at  stationery  departments  eteryuhere. 

FIFTY      CENTS       THE       BOX 


Lady-Like 

Ways  Come  Back 


Into 

ogue 


The    old    and   the   new!      Dixie   Lee 
typifies  the  cute  flapper  of  yesterday. 
Dorothy   Jordan    expresses   the   lady- 
like charm  of  today 


LADY-LIKE!    What  a  quaint  old  phrase,  you 
say.     And  so  it  has  been  these  many  years,  ever 
since  a  new  generation  jeeringly  put  it  in  a  bottle 
'way  back  on  the  vocabulary  shelf.     But  now  that 
same  quaint  term  is  going  to  have  to  be  brought  out,  dusted  off 
and  used — it  is  back  in  fashion  and  back  in  manners. 

A  few  weeks  ago  Seymour  returned  from  a  meeting  of 
fashion  authorities  who  had  earnestly  been  discussing  what 
was  what  for  Fall.  I  cornered  him  with  the  firm  intention  of 
discovering  whether  or  not  he  thought  I  ought  to  giddily  don 
one  of  those  new  tip-tilted  hats.  He  gave  me  a  vague  look, 
brushed  aside  my  hat  problem,  and  burst  into  a  eulogy  of  the 
lady-like  influence  of  fashions.  He  talked  on  and  on,  until  I 
began  to  vision  us  all  returning  to  the  two-wheeled  chaise  and 
hoop  skirts  or  bustles! 

It  is  true,  however,  that  the  whoopee,  flapper  era  is  gone. 
Gone  as  completely  as  the  knee-length  dress  and  the  closely 
shingled  head.  It  started  first  with  the  lengthening  dress. 
Who  could  feel  boyish  in  the  new  clothes?  They  demanded 
a  new  dignity,  a  new  grace.  Then,  manners  seemed  to  change 
almost  imperceptibly.  Girls  began  to  demand  a  little  more 
chivalry  from  men,  and  a  little  less  casualness.  Longer  hair 
suddenly  became  a  crowning  glory  again,  and  a  curl  an  out 
and  out  lure! 

If  you  don't  believe  there  has  been  a  radical  change,  look 
at  the  difference  between  your  favorite  movie  stars,  today  and 
yesterday.  Today  they  are  glamorous,  fascinating,  feminine. 
Who  would  get  a  thrill  any  more  out  of  the  young  hoydens  of  a 
few  years  ago? 

16 


You   admire   Ann   Harding   with   her 
abundant  long  hair  and  her  sweetness. 
You  praise  Joan  Crawford  for  having 
changed  from  a  dancing  flapper  to  a 
charming,  poised  woman.   You  wouldn't 
miss  a  picture  of  Constance  Bennett's 
because    she    delights    you    with    her 
cultured  voice  and  cool,  poised  manner. 
This  season,  first  of  all,  you  will  want  to 
appear  natural.   You  won't  be  posey, 
you  won't  try  to  be  brittle  and  sophisti- 
cated with  the  idea  of  looking  like  a  bored 
old  woman  of  the  world.     You  won't  be 
afraid  to  show  enthusiasm  for  simple  things. 
In  looks,  you  will  be  reminded  a  bit  of  your 
mother  when  she  wore  gay,  feathered  hats  and 
dressed  as  if  she  were  really  grown  up. 
Your  hair  will  be  longer.     You  can't  wear  some 
of  the  new  hats  becomingly  if  it  isn't.    It  will  have  a 
soft  look,  with  a  knot  or  curls  at  the  back  of  the  head. 
Your  make-up  will  be  delicately  done.    No  splashes  of  rouge 
and  lipstick,  no  heavily  blackened  eye  lashes. 

You  won't  slouch  when  you  walk.  You  won't  lean  in  un- 
gainly attitudes  when  you  stand  still.  You  can't,  and  look 
right  in  your  new  clothes.  [  please  turn  to  page  96  ] 


Friendly  Advice  on 

Girls'  Problems 

Send  a  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope  for  my 
booklet  of  normalizing  exercises  and  reducing 
menus.  Also  for  my  complexion  leaflet,  giving 
general  advice  on  the  care  of  the  skin  and  specific 
treatment  for  blackheads  and  acne. 

If  you  want  personal  advice  about  your  hair, 
correct  colors  for  your  type,  the  right  shades  in 
cosmetics — I'll  be  glad  to  mail  back  a  personal 
letter.  Address  me  at  PHOTOPLAY,  221  West 
57th  Street,  New  York  City. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


Photoplay  Magazine  iok  October,  1931 


l7 


SEARS,  ROEBUCK  and  CO. 

a  timely 

Announcement 

to  every  family  in  the  United  States 


T 


HIS  new  General 
Catalog  for  Fall  and 
Winter  is  already  in  the 
hands  of  most  of  our  cus- 
tomers. From  this  book 
they  are  learning  a  price 
message  untold  before  in 
our  time.  More  than  this, 
its  pages  are  unfolding  a 
story  of  quality  and  value 
of  which  any  store  would 
be  proud. 

And  now  our  great 
new  catalog— The  Thrift 
Book  of  a  Nation  — is 
ready  for  you.  We  think 


it  so  expresses  the  new 
day  and  the  new  stand- 
ard of  values  and  offers 
the  new  high  quality 
merchandise  at  present 
in  demand,  that  we 
would  like  you  to  have  it. 
From  its  1100  pages, 
offering  48,000  articles, 
you  may  select  everything 
you  need  in  the  quiet  of 
your  own  home.  Order- 
ing by  mail  is  most  con- 
venient. Try  it  once,  if 
you  would  learn  the  truly 
modern  way  of  shopping. 


Never  in  all  of  their 
existence  have  Sears, 
Roebuck  and  Co. 
bought  merchandise  at 
such  favorable  price 
levels.  We  know  that  the 
real  value  of  our  goods 
is  greatly  in  excess  of 
our  selling  prices  and 
that  you  will  make  sub- 
stantial savings  on  every 
purchase. 


Ask  for  your  copy  of  this 
book  today.  Just  fill  in  and 
mail  the  coupon  to  our  mail 
order  store  nearest  you. 


SEND  TODAY 


SEARS,  ROEEUCK  AND  CO. 
Chicago,  Philadelphia,  Boston,  Minneapolis, 
Kansas    City,     Atlanta,      Memphis,      Dallas, 
Los  Angeles,  Seattle. 

(Mail  Coupon  to  Store  Nearest  You) 

Send  me  your  Latest  General  Catalog. 

61F63 

Postoffice State 

Rutal  Route Box  No _ 

(Please  give  both  Route  and  Box  Number  if  on 
a  Rutal  Route) 

Stteet  Addtess 


i8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


/- 


is  Woman  made 


J.his  woman  made 
a  mistake.  One  little  mistake — 
but  everyone  holds  it  against  her. 

It  is  a  common  mistake,  too. 
One  that  any  woman  might  make. 
One  that  thousands  do  make,  to 
their  sorrow. 

This  is  the  mistake:  She  as- 
sumed that  she  was  free  of  halitosis 
(unpleasant  breath).  Simply  took 
it  for  granted  that  she  never  of- 
fended this  way. 

No  intelligent  person  makes 
this  error.  Because  the  facts  show 
that  every  day  even  in  normal 
mouths  conditions  capable  of  caus- 
ing unpleasant  breath  are  already 
present  or  may  arise. 

You  may  be  interested  in  know- 
ing that  90%  of  halitosis  is  caused 
by  fermentation  of  tiny  food  par- 
ticles the  tooth  brush  has  failed 
to  remove. 

You  undoubtedly  realize  that  it 
is  also  caused  by  minor  mouth  in- 
fections and  by  excesses  of  eating, 


ONE 


^fistake 


drinking,  and  smoking.  complete,  must  include  a  precau- 

Surely,  then,  any  toilette,  to  be     tion  against  it. 

LlSTERINE  immediately  overcomes  odors  other 
antiseptics  fail  to  mask  in  four  days 


The  one  pleasant  way  to  make 
sure  your  breath  is  beyond  sus- 
picion is  to  use  full  strength  Lis- 
terine  as  a  mouthwash.  No  other 
should  be  considered.  Use  Lister- 
ine  every  morning,  every  night, 
and  between  times  before  meet- 
ing others. 

Listerine  halts  fermentation, 
the  principal  cause  of  halitosis. 
Relentlessly  it  attacks  infection, 
another  cause  of  odors.  Having 
thus  struck  at  the  cause,  it  then 
overcomes  the  odors  themselves. 
Its  ability  in  this  direction  is  sim- 


ply amazing. 

"Listerine  immediately  over- 
comes odors  that  ordinarymouth- 
washes  fail  to  mask  in  four  days," 
says  a  noted  chemist  after  a  series 
of  tests  to  determine  the  deodor- 
izing power  of  Listerine  and  other 
mouthwashes. 

When  you  want  certain  deodor- 
ant effect,  healing  antiseptic  ac- 
tion, and  pleasant  taste,  use 
Listerine.  No  ordinary  mouth- 
wash provides  these  qualities  to 
such  a  degree.  Lambert  Pharma- 
cal  Co.,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  U.  S.  A. 


Before  Meeting  Others  -Put  Your  Breath  Beyond  Reproach 


Eugene  Robert  Ricliee 


LILY  AN  TASHMAN  pretends  she's  the  Hollywood  Sphinx. 
That  quizzical  stare  is  guaranteed  to  make  the  lad  across  the 
table  drop  his  pickle  fork.  Then  she  blinds  him  with  the  gems, 
which  are  real.  Lil  is  now  on  "The  Road  to  Reno."  Don't  pop 
your  eyes.     No,  it's  a  film,  silly! 


Alexander  Phillips 


THE  gallant  girl  and  fine  actress  that  Fate  and  poor  stories  can 
never  down.  A  half  dozen  times  Hollywood  pessimists  have 
said  Evelyn  Brent  was  through.  The  next  minute  she  confounds 
them  by  crashing  out  with  a  brilliant  show.  Watch  her  sparkle  in 
the  new  "Pagan  Lady" 


Elmer  Fryer 


ONE  of  Dr.  Flo  Ziegfeld's  newer  gifts  to  the  American  screen — 
the  lovely  Noel  Francis.  After  a  year  on  the  talkie  ladder,  she 
reaches  a  high  rung  in  "Larceny  Line,"  in  which  Jim  Cagney 
and  Joan  Blondell  are  the  leads.  Tell  us,  Noel — is  Hollywood 
just  another  folly  to  you? 


John  Miehle 


WELL,  Chester  Morris  —  welcome  back  to  the  old  home 
screen!  Been  away  quite  a  spell !  The  folks  say  your  new 
talkie,  "Corsair,'"  is  a  jinvdandy,  with  you  playing  a  football  star 
who  turns  into  a  pirate  in  white  flannel  pants.  Mercy  on  us,  what 
a  part!    But  we  knew  you'd  put  it  over. 


BEAUTIFUL  FIGURES  mean  so  much  more  than  pretty 
faces.  Which  is  as  it  should  be  —  because,  you  can't 
change  the  contour  of  your  face,  but  you  can  change 
the  contour  of  your  figure!  No  matter  how  you  have 
neglected  your  lines,  Gossard's  famous  MisSimplicity 
model  will  put  them  in  their  proper  place. 

The  converging  waistline  straps  create  a  diagonal  pull 
that  raises  the  bust,  smooths  the  diaphragm  and  abdo- 
men to  a  flat  line,  defines  your  waist,  and  coaxes  your 
figure  to  correct  posture. 


The  model  photographed  is  of 
peach  satin  brocade  with  a 
double  silk  tricot  top.  Woven 
elastic  panels  control  the  hips. 

Model  6690 


i 


Mis 


S I  m  p  I  i  c  i  t  q 


Ret.  US  Pat  Off 


The  H.W.Gossard  Co.,  Division  of  Associated  Apparel  Industries,  Inc.,  Chicago,  New  York,  San  Francisco,  Dallas,  Atlanta,  London,  Toronto,  Sydney,  Buenos  Aires 


<UKen  fall  in  love 

with  the 


oman 


OMAN" 


says 

DOROTHY  DIX 

who  receives  letters  from  women 
the  world  over,  all  seeking  the  wise 
guidance  of  a  very  wise  woman 


'"Dear  tMiss  T>ix: 

"No  man  has  ever  asked  me  to  marry  him. 
Other  women  envy  me  my  good  position  and 
fine  salary,  but  I  think  I'm  a  failure — I'm 
missing  the  real  things — love ,  marriage  and 
a  home  .  .  .  Elizabeth  F " 


'/^  LEVER  girls  like  Elizabeth  so  often 
V^  forget  that  men  fall  in  love  with  the 
womanly  woman,  not  with  copies  of 
themselves. 

"Now,  my  dear,  feel  yourself  the  lovely, 
feminine  person  you  were  meant  to  be. 
And  don't  despise  the  part  CLOTHES  can 
play  in  this!  Especially  the  things  that 
don't  show  —  pretty  lingerie,  delicate 
negligees,  sheer  hosiery. 


"When  you  put 

on  lacy,  colorful,  shim- 
mering underthings  you 
can't  help  but  feel  ex- 
quisitely feminine.  And 
this  feeling  is  conta- 
gious— others  respond 
to  it  at  once!  That's 
why  I  am  so  continually 
urging  every  girl  to: 

1.  Buy  the  prettiest,  most  delicate  lingerie 
you  can. 

2.  Always  keep  it  color-fresh  and  charming 
as  new ! 

"Perhaps  you've  thought  delicate  lingerie 
impractical — had  the  feeling  that  a  few 
washings  would  fade  and  wear  it  out? 

"You  won't  need  to  fear  this — and  I'm 
speaking  from  my  own  personal  experience 


— if  you  wash  them 
in    Lux.    Ordinary 
'good'  soaps  do  take 
away  a  bit  of  color 
as  they  clean,  hut 
Lux  is  especially  made 
to  preserve  color  and  to 
keep  fragile  things  lovely  a  long,  long  time. 

"MOREOVER  —  not  only  can  dainty, 
colorful  lingerie  bring  you  confidence  of 
charm,  but  your  very  surroundings  can 
help!  Pretty  curtains,  slip  covers,  color- 
ful table  linens,  all  form  part  of  the  magic 


zA  Secret  of  Femininity 


spell    when    kept    td_rr^r~    /^^ 
dainty  with  Lux.  /  X 

NO  MATTER  HOW   DELICATE  THE    COLOR:    IF   IT'S   SAFE   IN   WATER,  IT'S  JUST   AS   SAFE  IN    LUX 


Lace-trimmed  lingerie  of 
lovely  peach  satin  washed 
12  times  in  Lux — all  its 
beauty  of  color  and  tex- 
ture retained.  Colorful 
and  charming  as  new! 


Duplicate  lingerie  wash- 
ed 12  times  in  ordinary 
"good"  soap- color  jaded 
and  drab,  lustre  spoiled, 
lace  and  satin  damaged. 
No  longer  dainty  ! 


October,  1931 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots 


By 

James  R.  Quirk 


I  OWE  Ronald  Colman  an  apology  and 
I  am  making  it  right  now.  It's  due  be- 
cause of  a  few  paragraphs  in  these  col- 
umns recently  in  which  I  quoted  by  name 
a  generally  reliable  newspaper  writer  to  the 
effect  that  Ronald  always  insisted  on  a  list 
of  the  guests  before  he  accepted  a  dinner  en- 
gagement lest  some  magazine  or  newspaper 
writer  be  there. 

No  sooner  had  I  arrived  in  Los  Angeles  and  parked 
my  extra  shirt,  flask,  and  typewriter  in  my  old  Am- 
bassador Hotel  bungalow  than  Al  Cohn,  the  first 
Hollywood  editor  of  Photoplay,  now  an  affluent  and 
successful  screen  writer,  called  me  on  the  telephone. 


TIM,"  he  said,  "welcome  to  our  city.     And  now 

J  that  that's  over  you  are  all  wrong  about  Colman. 

If  you  knew  him  better  you'd  know  you  were  damned 

unfair  to  reprint  that  slam  about  him.     Be  fair  and 

check  up  on  that  story." 

I  did.  Al  was  right.  I  checked  up  with  eight  people 
who  know  him  well.  Not  one  of  them  left  me  a  leg 
to  stand  on.  Then  I  called  up  Colman  whom  I  knew 
but  casually  and  ate  crow.  And  how  I  hate  to  eat 
crow.    That  bird  gives  me  indigestion. 

"That's  all  right,  old  man,"  he  said.  "We  all 
make  mistakes.  Mighty  nice  of  you  to  call  me  about 
it.  Come  on  out  and  let's  settle  the  problems  of  the 
picture  business.  It's  the  popular  indoor  sport  these 
days." 


ALL  of  which  goes  to  show  that  we  are  too  inclined 
to  take  the  parts  the  screen  celebrities  play  as 
reflections  of  their  real  personalities.  Because  Ronald 
has  played  an  aloof,  almost  snooty  fellow  in  several 
of  his  pictures  most  of  us  put  him  down  as  that  sort 
of  chap.     He  isn't. 


V; 


ALENTINO  was  not  in  real  life  a 
great  lover.  Edward  Robinson  han- 
dles a  tennis  racket  better  than  a  gun. 
Jean  Harlow  doesn't  go  around  Hollywood 
in  a  nightgown  vamping  aviators  or  gang- 
sters. Nor  is  George  Bancroft  a  tough  guy 
off  the  screen.  Clark  Gable  would  rather 
play  around  with  his  gang  than  terrify 
blondes  into  submission.  And  Ruth  Chat- 
terton  is  one  jolly  dinner  companion. 


HERE'S  the  latest  one  on  a  picture  producer. 
Harry  Cohn,  head  man  of  the  Columbia  Studios, 
admits  it,  but  says  he  was  thinking  of  something  else 
at  the  time. 

He  was  sitting  in  a  studio  projection  room  with  one 
of  his  writers  looking  at  some  "rushes."  They  were  a 
hodgepodge  of  scenes  shot  in  the  day's  work. 

"That,"  said  the  writer,  calling  his  attention  to  a 
rather  sexy  scene,  "is  a  very  naive  situation." 

"All  right,"  said  Cohn,  "if  it's  that  bad  we'll  kill 
it.    No  use  of  taking  chances  with  the  censors." 


OH,  Mr.  Cagney,  Mr.  James  Cagney.  Less  than 
a  year  ago  you  came  to  motion  pictures  and 
Warner  Brothers  gave  you  the  chance  of  a  lifetime 
in  "Public  Enemy."  You  clicked.  They  teamed  you 
with  Edward  Robinson  in  "Smart  Money.*'  Again 
you  clicked.  Then  they  starred  you  in  "Larceny 
Lane." 

But  before  your  first  starring  vehicle  was  released 
you  walked  out  on  your  producers  demanding  more 
money  than  your  contract  called  for,  and  sent  your 
agents  in  to  manipulate  a  raise  on  the  theory  that 
your  $500  a  week  was  not  enough  when  compared  to 
the  salaries  paid  other  actors. 

Don't  let  those  agents  kid  you.    You  didn't  make 

25 


the  pictures.  The  pictures  made  you.  Trying  to  break  a 
contract  after  a  studio  has  put  you  over  isn't  such  good 
business.    A  contract  is  a  contract  even  in  Hollywood. 


THREE  pictures  I've  seen  this  week  which  you 
can  put  down  on  your  "must  not  miss  list"  are 
"Bad  Girl,"  "The  Star  Witness"  and  "Waterloo 
Bridge." 

"Bad  Girl"  broke  all  recent  box-office  records  at 
Roxy's  in  New  York,  and  I  am  glad  of  it.  Aside  from 
being  decidedly  novel,  human,  and  a  refreshing  change 
from  ordinary  screen  fare,  it  will  introduce  to  you 
two  young  people  who  are  on  their  way  to  stardom. 
You've  seen  Sally  Eilers,  Hoot  Gibson's  beautiful 
young  wife,  before. 

It's  Jimmie  Dunn's  first  picture.  Winfield  Sheehan, 
boss  of  the  Fox  Studios,  found  him  in  New  York. 
There's  something  new  in  that  handsome  Irish  pan  of 
his.     He's  the  boy  every  girl  knows. 


FOR  many  years  I  have  observed,  mostly  from 
screen  reflections  of  his  work,  the  progress  of 
twenty-three-year-old  Carl  Laemmle,  Jr.,  heir  to  the 
Universal  Studios,  which  were  builded  by  his  father. 

When  he  bought  "All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front" 
there  was  much  eye  brow  lifting  among  the  older  and 
more  experienced  picture  competitors.  Almost  unani- 
mously, the  picture  critics  and  commentators,  includ- 
ing your  editor,  sympathized  with  the  elder  Laemmle. 

Too  bad  the  hard  fighting  old  veteran  of  the  nickel- 
odeon had  a  nut  of  a  son.  But  then  it  was  his  own 
fault.  Instead  of  exercising  his  parental  authority  he 
had  failed  to  force  the  lad  through  Harvard. 

It  wasn't  right  to  turn  an  eighteen-year-old  kid  loose 
on  a  studio  lot  with  its  temptations  of  luscious  blondes 
and  yes  men.  Much  worse,  putting  him  in  complete 
charge  at  twenty-one.  The  kid  didn't  have  a  chance. 
He'd  go  Hollywood;  in  an  incurable  form  with  a 
swell  head  complication  before  he  cast  his  first  vote. 

Just  too  bad.  Then,  too,  Universal's  finances 
weren't  in  any  too  healthy  condition.  Goodbye 
Carl,  you  were  grand  while  you  lasted.  Having  de- 
veloped Irving  Thalberg  (now  M-G-M's  juvenile 
pride  and  joy)  from  office  boy  to  a  producing  phe- 
nomenon, the  old  boy  was  going  to  lose  his  shirt 
trying  to  do  the  same  thing  with  Junior.  We  did 
everything  but  tote  the  plaster  for  the  sheriff  to  paste 
over  the  closed  studio  gates. 


MANY  times  in  these  pages  I  have  lit  into  the 
old  boy,  particularly  for  hiring  John  Drink- 
water,  the  eminent  English  biographer  and  hack- 
writer, to  foist  a  dull  biography  on  the  world. 

But  I  must  admit  that  the  genial  old  showman 
knew  the  apple  of  his  eye  better  than  we  did. 

The  youngster  is  now  acclaimed  by  competing  pro- 
ducers as  a  rival  of  Thalberg,  with  an  even  better 
two-year  percentage  record  of  box-office  hits  than  the 
former  pride  of  the  lot. 

?6 


Let's  see  what  he  has  done.  He  made  history  with 
"All  Quiet."  He  conceived  a  stupendous  vision  of  the 
adaptation  of  the  book  to  the  screen.  He  found  three 
men,  Lewis  Milestone,  director,  and  Maxwell  Ander- 
son and  George  Abbott,  playwrights,  to  work  it  out 
for  him.  He  talked  his  father  into  spending  nearly  a 
million  and  a  half  on  it.  And  that  at  a  time  when  a 
million  and  a  half  meant  sink  or  swim,  and  sinking 
meant  oblivion  for  Laemmle  pere. 

You  know  the  rest.  The  picture  will  make  millions, 
and  the  broad  grin  on  papa's  face  was  worth  going 
miles  to  gaze  upon. 


NOWT,  said  Hollywood,  and  thought  I,  there's 
going  to  be  no  standing  that  Laemmle  kid. 
That  lucky  break  will  send  him  haywire.  We  only 
hope  that  the  flop  on  "The  Jazz  King"  will- offset  the 
success  and  retain  his  normalcy. 

It  didn't.  The  darn  fool  kid  set  out  to  make  "Dra- 
cula,"  that  weird,  fantastic,  and  blood  curdling 
stage  play.  How  can  that  goofy  thing  sell  as  a  pic- 
ture?    Goodbye,  Junior. 

Again  the  dice  came  out  as  a  natural. 

Then  "Seed."  How  was  he  going  to  put  on  the 
screen  a  story  of  birth  control?  How  about  the  Hays 
code?    How  dare  he  antagonize  the  Catholic  Church? 

Another  natural. 

"Waterloo  Bridge."  Yes,  we  see  how  he  handled 
the  other  three,  but  this  is  a  story  of  a  prostitute. 

Another  picture  gem  and  a  box-office  wow. 

"Strictly  Dishonorable"?  That's  coming  soon. 
They  say  it's  another  knockout.    Five  in  a  row. 


HERE'S  another  unexplainable  thing  about  him 
By  all  the  commandments  of  motion  picture 
production  as  they  are  followed  by  the  orthodox  boys, 
he  should  have  retitled  every  one  of  these  pictures. 
If  they  were  to  get  motion  picture  audiences  they 
should  have  gone  up  on  the  theater  marquees  like 
this: 

All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front 
LOVE  IN  THE  TRENCHES 


Dracula 
THE  DEMON  LOVER 


Seed 
MUST  MOTHERS  WEEP? 


Waterloo  Bridge 
THE  BRIDGE  OF  PASSION 


Strictly  Dishonorable 
SPEAKEASY  LOVE 


What's  the  use?   How  are  you  going  to  figure  out  a 
fool  kid  like  that? 


\yESLEY  RUGGLES,  the  smart  lad 
(in  the  beret)  who,  with  Howard 
Estabrook,  made  a  wonder  picture  of 
Edna  Ferber's  "Cimarron,"  directing  a 
scene  from  "Are  These  Our  Children? "  in 


the  Radio  Pictures  Studios.  The  silence 
and  intensity  of  the  episode  can  be  judged 
from  the  attitudes  of  the  director,  camera 
crew  and  script  girl.  Note  the  sound- 
proof camera  and  the  elevated  platform 


Long  hair,  decides  Dolores  Del  Rio !    "This  is  an  age  of  type 
personality.    Some  say  I'd  look  better  with  it  bobbed,  but 
going  to  remain  myself!" 


LEADING  hairdressers  of  Hollywood,  both  in  the  studios 
and  on  the  boulevards,  declare  definitely  that  women  are 
not  letting  their  hair  grow  long.    A  longer  bob,  but  not 
long  hair,  rules  the  day  and  is  here  to  stay,  they  claim. 
In  the  face  of  this  ultimatum,  a  small  group  of  highly  success- 
ful   women,    both    professionally    and    socially,    have    defied 
fashion's  edict  and  dare  to  be  individual. 

When  "to  bob  or  not  to  bob"  was  the  burning  question  re- 
garding hair,  this  group  refused  to  pait  with  woman's  crowning 
glory.    "  Longhair"  has  been  the  term  generally  associated  with 

28 


L 
H 


on 


air 


or 


Sh 


ort: 


? 


By 
Harry  D.  Wilson 


the  prudish,  but  no  one  can  apply  that  word  to 
Gloria  Swanson,  Ann  Harding  or  Dolores  Del  Rio. 
They  are  all  smart  women  who  know  their  world. 
It  is  interesting  to  learn  why  some  do  and  some 
don't  follow  a  certain  line  of  action.  There  are  a 
dozen  or  more  vibrant  personalities  who  have 
voiced  their  ideas  on  why  they  remain  long- 
hairs.  The  fact  that  they  are  old-fashioned  in 
this  respect  does  not  seem  to  have  held  them  back 
in  the  race  for  popularity. 

Ann  Harding's  glorious  golden  hair  has  received 
many  an  envious  glance  from  a  smartly  bobbed 
follower  of  fashion.  Deep  down  in  their  hearts, 
men  adore  long  hair.  All  you  have  to  do  is  listen 
to  their  comments  when  the  lovely  Ann  flashes 
into  vision  on  the  screen. 

"Why  should  I  bob  my  hair  when  it  has  been 
responsible  for  my  becoming  an  actress?"  she 
says.  "It  gave  me  my  first  chance  with  the 
Provincetown  Players  and  besides,  my  husband 
prefers  it  that  way." 

Incidentally,   Ann  Harding's  hair  has   never 
required  a  bleach  of  any  kind.    Soft  water,  good 
soap  and  lots  of  sunshine  are  responsible  for  her 
and  golden  loveliness. 

I'm  Many  heads  have  turned  at  a  smart  Hollywood 

opening  to  gaze  admiringly  at  the  sleek,  long- 
haired beauty  of  Dolores  Del  Rio.  She  always 
strikes  a  definite  note  in  any  gathering  with  the 
simplicity  with  which  she  dresses  her  hair.  Never 

a  wave  disturbs  the  off-screen  contour  of  her  head.     Drawn 

severely  from  her  forehead,  her  hair  is  coiled  simply  at  the  nape 

of  her  neck. 

Although  Dolores  has  gone  modern  since  her  marriage  to 

Cedric  Gibbons,  this  is  one  characteristic  that  has  defied  the 

modernistic  trend  in  her  make-up. 

"This  is  an  age  of  type  and  personality,  not  beauty,"  says 

Dolores  in  defense  of  her  long  hair.    "Some  have  said  I  would 

look  better  with  it  bobbed,  but  I'm  not  going  to  experiment.    I 

will  remain  myself." 


Fashion  dictates 
the  new  long 
bob,  but  many 
screen  beauties 
refuse  to  obey. 
Perhaps  this  art- 
icle will  help  you 
solve  your  own 
"crowning  glory" 
problem 


"Madame,  you  will  never  be  able  to  wear 
a  small  hat  with  that  hair,"  despairingly  said 
a  smart  Parisian  hat  designer. 

"Indeed  I  will,"  replied  Gloria  Swanson. 
Then,  with  true  American  initiative,  she 
divided  her  hair  into  three  strands.  In  a 
page  of  pictures  of  Gloria,  in  the  August, 
1930,  issue  of  Photoplay,  we  showed  you 
how  it  was  done  and  described  it  fully.  She 
brought  up  one  strand  from  the  back — that 
served  to  hold  down  the  two  side  strands. 
The  result  simulated  a  perfect  bob.  "There!" 
from  the  triumphant  Gloria.  The  tight-fit- 
ting turban  was  stunningly  adjusted  to  her 
head.    Her  hair  was  safe. 

"  Long  hair  is  extremely  important  in  com- 
pleting the  ensemble,"  says  Miss  Swanson. 
"Sometimes  I  wear  it  with  a  loose  wave. 
Other  times  I  comb  it  back  with  the  severity 
of  a  Chinese  woman.  It  all  depends  what 
I'm  wearing.  My  mood,  too,  is  often  respon- 
sible for  the  way  my  hair  is  dressed.  I  don't 
think  I  will  ever  experience  the  feeling  of 
bobbed  hair."  This  was  all  said  with  the 
finality  of  one  who  knows  her  own  mind. 
Gloria  has  managed  to  remain  stunning  in 
contradiction  to  fashion's  dictates. 

AND  there  never  was  anyone  more  versa- 
tile in  hair  arranging  than  Gloria.  She 
certainly  refutes  that  old  complaint  of  long- 
haired girls  that  "I  just  can't  do  anything 
with  my  hair."  Remembering  back  to  her 
De  Mille  days,  you  can  recall  some  of  the 
really  spectacular  hairdresses  she  used  to 
achieve,  and  it  took  plenty  of  hair  to  do  it,  too ! 

When  Irene  Rich  recently  appeared  in  a 
picture  with  her  hair  "  bobbed,"  her  fan  mail 
increased  daily  with  letters  of  protest.  From  all 
parts  of  the  world  came  the  plaintive  question. 
"Why  did  you  cut  off  your  lovely  hair?" 

"I  didn't  mean  to  deceive  anybody," 
chuckled  Irene.  "Won't  they  be  surprised 
when  they  find  out  my '  bob '  was  a  wig?  No.  I 
really  will  have  to  remain  old-fashioned.  I  am 
not  the  bobbed  type.  I  would  feel  so  strange 
with  my  hair  short — I'm  so  used  to  it  long." 


Ann  Harding  casts  a  loud,  ringing  vote  for  Ion?;  locks.    "Why  should  I 

bob  it?"  asks  Ann.     "It  got  me  my  first  job  in  the  theater — and  my 

husband  lilies  it  that  way!"    It's  honest-to-goodness  blonde,  too! 

29 


Aileen  Pringle  did  her  hair  this  way  years  ago  when  she  was  working  with  Elinor  Glyn.  But  it's  new  again,  devised 
by  Perc  Westmore,  and  called  "The  Coronet."  June  Collyer  wears  it  here.  The  hair  is  parted  in  the  center  (the 
loose  waves  falling  softly  about  the  face)  and  combed  to  one  side  of  the  back,  pinning  it  close  to  the  head  toward  the 
base  of  one  ear.  The  braid  is  then  pinned  wide  end  into  the  coil  and  stretched  across  the  top  of  the  head,  the  smaller 
end  being  tucked  into  the  v/ave.    Note  the  single  earring  effect 


When  Lita  Chevret  walks  onto  a  set,  even  the  most  blase 
gasp  at  that  cascade  of  hair.  I  have  seen  her  run  her  hand  over 
it  with  a  caressing  touch  that  has  a  proud  possessiveness.  Yet 
there  is  no  conceit  about  this  young  Californian.  She  feels  she 
owes  her  place  on  the  screen — not  stardom  as  yet,  but  you  never 
can  tell — to  her  silken  hair  which  has  escaped  the  fate  of  many 
a  once  long-haired  head. 

"I  love  it,"  she  says  simply  when  she  answers  the  question, 
"Why  didn't  you  bob  your  hair?"  "Why  should  I  part  with 
it?"  says  Lita.  "If  I  can't  wear  certain  kinds  of  hats — I'll  go 
without." 

Lupe  Velez  never  attempted  to  appear  boyish.  The  bob  is 
taboo  with  her. 

She  knows  too  well  the  power  of  feminine  charm.  Lupe's 
hair  is  generally  guiltless  of  hairpins  or  any  other  restraint. 

Like  its  mistress,  it  has  a  flair 
for  freedom  and  hangs  gaily  down 
her  back. 

Mona  Maris,  from  the  Argen- 
tine, is  noted  for  her  long,  dusky 
hair.  Like  Lupe,  she  believes  in 
the  ultra-feminine. 

"If  I  hadn't  been  successful  on 
the  screen,"  laughs  Louise 
Fazenda,  "I  would  have  made  a 
good  advertisement  for  a  hair- 
grower,  like  the  Sutherland  Sisters. 
The  question  of  cutting  my  hair 
never  occurred  to  me.  My  mother 
and  grandmother  have  long  hair 
It  runs  in  the  family. 


""^"OU  know,"  continued  Louise, 
X  "I  think  a  lot  of  girls  cut  their 
hair  short  because  they  don't  want 
to  be  bothered  doing  it  up  all  the 
time. 

"They're  lazy.  If  I  go  in  bath- 
ing or  for  a  drive  in  an  open  car, 
I  don't  care  about  my  hair.  Why 
should  I?  You  can  say  for  me  I'm 
one  of  the  good  old  Fazenda  long- 
hairs — proud  of  it." 

Jeanette  MacDonald's  beautiful 
blonde  locks  never  interfere  with 
professional  duties.  Her  hair  is 
soft  and  fine.  It  can  be  dressed 
easily  to  resemble  a  long  bob.  She 
is  willing  to  rise  early  on  days  she 
appears  before  the  cameras  in 
bobbed-haired  roles,  spending 
extra   time  to  have  her  hair  ar- 


Dear  us,  can  this  be  our  little  Lois  Moran? 
Seems  only  yesterday  she  was  playing  in- 
genues.    Both  New  York  and  Hollywood 
acclaim  her  cs  a  creat  ectress  now 


ranged  to  suit  the  occasion.  Like  Irene  Rich,  Jeanette's  fans 
write  about  her  long  tresses  and  beg  her  not  to  let  the  scissors 
get  them. 

Loretta  Young,  Marion  Shilling,  Sylvia  Sidney  and  Con- 
stance Cummings  are  other  members  of  the  Hollywood  long- 
hair brigade. 

This  Hollywood  legion  of  the  long-haired  promises  to  have 
quite  an  edge  on  the  more  shorn  sisterhood  this  Fall.  These 
rakish,  tilted  hats  that  seem  all  the  rage  at  the  moment  almost 
demand  an  abundance  of  hair  for  safe  anchorage. 

You  can't  perch  one  up  on  top  of  a  shingled  head  and  have 
any  hope  of  its  staying  there — the  first  good  breeze  will  send  it 
cartwheeling  down  the  street. 

Of  course,  some  are  designed  with  trick  gadgets  to  hold 
them  on,  but  a  good  bit  of  hair  at  the  back  of  the  head  is  a 

necessity  if  they  would  look  right. 
A  good  many  of  the  stars  have 
gone  Garbo  and  wear  their  hair  in 
a  semi-long  effect. 

Her  back-of-the-ears  arrange- 
ment has  been  copied  all  over  the 
world.  She  has  a  new  one,  now 
(see  it  in  "Susan  Lenox"),  which 
may  panic  the  hairdressers  for 
months  to  come. 


THIS  tendency  toward  the  in- 
dividual in  hairdressing  which 
has  kept  Ann  Harding,  Dolores  Del 
Rio  and  others  from  shearing  off 
their  luxuriant  locks,  has  started 
the  short-haired  group  to  thinking 
a  bit.  There  is  an  attempt  on  the 
part  of  many  of  the  shorthairs  to 
permit  their  hair  to  grow.  It's  a 
long  procedure,  as  they  have  dis- 
covered. It  generally  ends  with  a 
trip  to  the  barber  or  a  compromise 
that  ends  somewhere  between  the 
two  extremes  of  length. 

Few  women  will  bother  to  fuss 
with  a  knot  as  large  as  Ann 
Harding's,  no  matter  how  much 
they  envy  it.  This  is  due  partly 
to  the  amount  of  time  and  trouble 
it  takes  to  grow  short  hair  to  such 
a  luxurious  state,  as  just  men- 
tioned, and  partly  because  they 
still  like  the  feeling  of  a  sleek, 
close-fitting  coiffure.  Gloria  Swan- 
son  may  rearrange  her  hair  every 

f  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  110  1 


30 


Why  One  Marriage  Failed! 


A  LEARNED  California 
judge  has  set  off  a  legal  tor- 
pedo under  the  fragile  bonds 
that  bound  Jack  Gilbert  and 
Ina  Claire. 

Bang!  "You're  free!"  he  said  to 
Ina. 

But  that  was  a  trivial  anti-climax 
to  the  death  of  a  marriage  that  was 
underground  long,  long  ago.  It's  just 
that  Ina  recently  got  around  to  pray- 
ing the  court  for  legal  release  from  a 
marriage  that  was  made  in  Holly- 
wood and  not  in  Heaven.  Sort  of  an 
afterthought,  sort  of. 

And  two  of  the  most  vivid,  arrest- 
ing and  colorful  people  in  America 
are  on  the  loose  again. 

And  there,  friends  and  well-wishers, 
is  the  hub  and  nubbin  of  the  crack-up  of  Jack  and  Ina.    They 
are  too  colorful,  too  individualistic  to  make  a  team  that  could 
jog  along  to  eternity  in  double  harness.     They  just  weren't 
built  to  share  a  single  spotlight,  that's  all. 

BUT  there's  more  to  this  divine  comedy  of  a  cock-eyed  Cupid 
than  that! 

The  knotting  of  Gilbert  and  Claire  could  have  taken  place 
nowhere  on  this  cuckoo  planet  but  in  mad  and  moonstruck 
Hollywood. 

In  May,  1929,  the  old  hills  of  Beverly  were  unearthly  beauti- 
ful. At  night  the  Ring-Tailed  Yucca  sang  love  songs  to  its  mate 
— the  stars  were  as  big  as  moons,  and  the  moon  measured  eight 
yards  from  tip  to  tip.  Spring,  and  that  devilish  Southern  Cali- 
fornia climate,  were  at  their  most  vicious  point.  Aged  stock- 
brokers bought  second-hand  mandolins  and  bayed  at  the  moon. 
I  was  there  at  the  time,  during  the  Gilbert-Claire  mating,  and  I 
threw  away  my  crutches  and  talked  baby-talk  to  waitresses. 
It  was  that  sort  of  spring! 

The  talkies  hadn't  battered  Jack  to  his  knees,  then.  He  was 
happy  making  his  first  one,  and  bubbled  like  a  siphon  of  over- 
charged soda.    What  a  man!    Sparkling,  gay,  clowning,  leaping 


The  legal  separation  of 
Jack  Gilbert  and  Ina 
Claire  is  an  anti-climax 
to  the  spiritual  smash- 
up  that  took  place 
long  ago 


ong, 


By   Leonard  Hall 


from  crag  to  crag— there  isn't  hi* 
equal  for  animal  spirits  when  he  feels 
good  and  his  world  is  fair. 

Ina,  new  and  miserable  in  Holl) 
wood,  making  the  ill-fated  "The 
Awful  Truth,"  fell  like  a  ton  of  boul- 
ders. Here  was  La  Belle  Claire  —  a 
sleek,  sophisticated  woman  who  for 
years  had  lorded  it  over  the  Broadway 
stage  as  First  Comedienne.  And  here 
was  a  prancing,  burbling,  handsome 
picture  star  with  the  heart  of  a  Dick 
Merriwell  and  the  laugh  of  a  sopho- 
more in  town  for  the  Christmas  holi- 
days. 

What  a  pair!    Jack  was  enthralled 
by  the  discovery  of  a  brilliant,  sword- 
keen  mind  in  a  beautiful  woman.  Ina 
was  fascinated  by  the  spirit  of  a  lad 
in  the  handsome  body  of  a  more  or  less  mature  man. 

Whambo!  Fate  tossed  the  two  into  a  cocktail  shaker,  threw 
in  a  jigger  of  California  moonlight,  shook  them  up  and  there 
they  were — the  Gilbert-Claire  Cocktail.  One  sip  guaranteed  to 
blow  the  top  of  your  head  into  the  next  county! 

Who  can  forget  the  alarums  and  excursions  of  that  mad  May 
monkey-business?  The  nocturnal  elopement  to  Nevada,  the 
sage-brush  wedding,  the  headlines  that  burned  Ina — "Jack 
Gilbert  Marries  Actress"? 

THE  erasable  ink  wasn't  dry  on  the  marriage  license  before 
Hollywood  was  snickering  sourly  into  its  alcohol  highballs. 
Fifty  to  one,  with  no  takers,  was  offered  on  the  Boulevard  that 
it  wouldn't  last  a  year.  Two  high-steppers  like  that?  "Har, 
har,"  har-harred  Hollywood. 

We  can  skim  the  history.  Within  a  few  months  Ina  had  moved 
out  of  Gilbert's  hill-top  home  and  had  taken  the  house  in  the 
valley.  The  high  altitude  made  her  giddy,  or  the  kitchen  taps 
didn't  work,  or  something.  Hollywood  snickered  some  more — 
this  time  into  bogus  Scotch. 

Within  six  months  everybody  knew  that  it  was  all  over  but 
asking  for  the  out-papers.    And     j  please  turn  to  page  120  ] 


International 


The  sun  shone  on  the  breakfast  table  and  on  the  marriage  of  Jack  Gilbert  and  Ina  Claire  when 

this  picture  was  snapped.     But  it  wasn't  long  till  matrimonial  skies  clouded  up.    What  the  world 

didn't  know  was  that  this  marriage  of  two  supreme  individualists  came  within  a  case  ace  of  being 

a  star-spangled,  twenty-two  carat,  180-proof  success! 


81 


Photographs  by  Stagg 


32 


CTUART  came  home  from  work  to  find  his  bride,  June,  fussing 
^around  the  apartment.  "Darling,"  he  said,  "one  of  those  handsome 
sheiks  at  the  studio  asked  me  how  a  bozo  like  me  ever  got  a  beauty 
like  you."  "What  did  you  tell  him?"  asked  June.  "I  just  told  him 
that  it  was  because  I  never  asked  fool  questions  like  that,"  said  Stuart 


He's  Not  So  Dumb 


J 


UNE  COLLYER  ELOPES; 
WEDS  STUART  ERWIN," 

said  the  headlines.  And  fifty 
million  movie  fans  stood  up  as 
one  and  demanded  to  know  "how  a 
dumb  cluck  like  that  ever  won  a 
gorgeous  girl  like  June!" 

Which  simply  proves  this:  that 
fifty  million  movie  fans  can  be  wrong. 
Stu  Erwin  is  not  dumb.  On  the 
screen,  he  may  be  the  stupidest  oaf 
alive,  but  off-screen,  he's  just  been 
smart  enough  to  carry  off  one  of  the 
most  beautiful  girls  in  movies — June 
Collyer,  whose  heart  had  withstood 
the  blandishments  of  Hollywood's 
handsomest  men,  Hollywood's  clev- 
erest men,  millionaires,  merchants, 
society  men  and  even,  they  say,  hand- 
some Prince  George  of  England. 

"Stupid?  Why,  he  isn't  anything 
of  the  kind!  He's  the  sweetest, 
smartest,  nicest,  dearest,  cleverest, 
handsomest,  finest  man  in  the  world 
and  I'm  crazy  about  him,"  says  June. 
And  there  you  are. 

Now,  this  is  the  hitherto  untold 
story  of  the  romance  of  June  and  Stu, 
and  of  their  elopement  to  Yuma, 
Arizona,  where  they  were  married. 
Rarely  has  Hollywood  been  so  sur- 
prised at  a  wedding  for,  although 
June  and  Stu  had  been  "seen  places," 
nobody  save  their  most  intimate 
friends  had  the  slightest  idea  that 
wedding  bells  were  in  the  picture. 

Why  that  was  so,  it's  hard  to  tell. 
Hollywood  usually  makes  fierce  speed 
to  predict  matrimony  for  any  young 
couple  seen  together  more  than  once. 
But  in  the  case  of  June  and  Stu,  they 
just  didn't. 

MAYBE  this  is  the  reason:  when 
two  Hollywoodians  get  "that 
way"  they  usually  let  the  whole  world 
know  it,  if  not  in  words,  then  in 
actions.  Among  players,  acting  of 
emotions  has  become  so  much  a  part 
of  their  life  that  when  it  comes  to  the 
real  thing,  they  just  can't  seem  to  for- 
get to  act  it  out  in  public — on  the 
Hollywood  Hotel  Roof,  perhaps ;  or  at 
the  Cocoanut  Grove,  the  Embassy, 
the  Montmartre  or  even  at  the  Brown 
Derby  over  the  luncheon  tables! 
They  hold  hands,  they  gaze  into  each 
other's  eyes,  they  all  but  drool  at 
each  other  for  the  world  to  see.  And 
it's  no  wonder  that  all  Hollywood 
knows  what's  coming. 

But  June  and  Stu  were  different. 
Maybe  it's  because  they  arc  different. 
In  all  Hollywood's  player  colony,  it'd 
be  hard  to  find  two  people  less  Holly- 
woody  than  these  two.  And  so,  when 
they  went  out  together,  they  didn't 
perform.  They  acted  just  like  two 
friendly  kids  having  a  meaningless 
date. 

Not  that  the  chatter-columnists  of 
Hollywood  didn't  notice  it.  More 
than  once,  their  going-places  was  re- 
ported in  the  film  news  columns.  But 


Now,  could  Stuart 
Erwin  be  as  vacant  as 
he  looks  in  pictures 
and  capture  that  gor- 
geous June  Collyer? 

By  Tom  Ellis 


See  June  and  Stu  being  domestic — 
doesn't  the  bride  look  pleased  and 
proud?  Right  after  the  wedding  they 
moved  from  June's  mansion  to  a 
modest  duplex  apartment.  Now,  that's 
a  smart  start! 


as  compared  with  the  case  of  Bill 
I'd  well  and  Carole  Lombard,  for  in- 
stance, or  Betty  Compson  and  Hugh 
Trevor,  there  was  little  significance 
attached  to  June  and  Stu  dancing  to- 
gether or  lunching  together  or  motor- 
ing to  the  beach  together. 

And  then  they  got  married!  And 
Hollywood  gossips  went  home  and 
chewed  nails  in  their  chagrin  at 
having  missed  one  of  the  most  inter- 
esting romances  in  town — going  on 
right  under  their  very  noses  for 
nearly  a  half  year  without  anyone 
being  wise. 

YOU  see,  it  all  began  on  Saint  Val- 
entine's day — February  14, 1931. 
That's  Stu  Erwin's  big  day,  anyway. 
He  was  born  on  a  P'ebruary  14,  a 
couple  of  dozen  years  ago.  He  always 
had  to  laugh  when  people,  learning 
the  birthdate,  would  gurgle  and  say: 
"Haw,  haw,  haw — a  comic  valentine, 
huh?    Haw,  haw,  haw  .  .  .!" 

Maybe  Old  Man  Valentine  was 
Stu's  patron  saint.  Maybe  it  was  the 
Saint's  machinations  that  led  Stu 
into  a  long  stretch  of  overtime  work 
the  night  of  February  13.  He  had 
finished  working  at  Paramount  in 
"Dude  Ranch"  on  the  day's  shoot- 
ing, and  then  had  to  go  over  to 
another  studio  to  work  with  other 
volunteers  in  making  a  charity  film. 
It  was  to  have  taken  only  an  hour  or 
two — but  it  took  all  night — and  Stu 
had  to  be  on  the  "Dude  Ranch"  set 
again  early  the  next  morning.  He 
got  no  sleep. 

Now,  also  in  "Dude  Ranch"  was 
June  Collyer.  She  and  Stu  had  been 
working  in  the  picture  for  a  week  or 
two — but  that  was  as  far  as  their 
acquaintance  went.  They'd  say 
"hello"  each  morning  and  "see  y' 
t'morrow"  each  night,  and  pass  the 
time  of  day  during  the  working  hours. 
To  Stu,  June  was  just  a  nice,  beauti- 
ful girl.  To  June,  Stu  was  just 
another  actor — until  Saint  Valen- 
tine's day. 

STU  staggered  onto  the  set  dead 
tired,  and  something  in  June's 
heart  went  click!  "  Maybe  it  was  my 
mother  instinct,"  she  says — and  then 
Stu  grins  at  her  like  a  fool!  But  any 
way,  before  they  knew  it,  they  were 
sitting  side  by  side  and  talking  away 
like  the  only  two  people  in  the  world. 
June  discovered  it  was  Stu's  birth- 
day; Stu  discovered  June  knew  a  lot 
of  places  in  New  York  that  he  knew 
—  and,  well,  you  know  how  it  is.  .  .  . 

They  had  lunch  together  that  day, 
for  the  first  time.  That  afternoon, 
they  were  so  absorbed  in  one  another 
that  the  director  had  a  tough  time 
calling  them  for  their  scenes. 

"And  from  that  very  day."  June 
confesses,  "  I  never  went  out  with 
any  other  man  but  Stu."    It  was  love 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  108  ] 


"Wh 


at 


A 


Clark  Gable  doing  his  stuff  in  his  greatest  assignment  to 
date — Garbo's  leading  man  in  "Susan  Lenox."  Not 
hard  to  take,  a  plump  role  opposite  the  lovely  Scandina- 
vian !  And  a  flock  of  birdies  chirp  that  Clark's  heart  has 
been  set  more  than  a  trifle  a-flutter! 


CLARK  GABLE  himself  gets  a  huge  laugh  out  of  being 
called  "the  second  Valentino*' — or  the  "It"'  man  of 
the  movies. 

"Aw,"  he  comments,  ''it's  a  lot  o'hooey!     But  as 
long  as  they  spell  my  name  right,  what  the  hell?" 

Around  the  studio  the  men  he  works  with  razz  him  un- 
mercifully about  his  sudden  eminence  as  the  sex-appeal  cham- 
pion. 

"  What-A-Man  Gable"  is  what  Wally  Beery  calls  him. 
Cliff  Edwards  calls  him  things,  too,  but  you  couldn't  print  'ern! 


it 


It's  a  lot  of  hooey !"  he 
says,  when  they  rave 
over  him  as  "The  Sec- 
ond Valentino."  Here's 
the  sort  of  guy  he  is 

By  Harry  Lang 


But  they  like  Gable  tremendously.  He's  that  sort  of  man — 
the  sort  of  man  men  like.     As  for  the  women  .  .  . 

Well,  every  time  a  group  of  Hollywood's  prettiest  get  to- 
gether, these  days,  they  say  it's  a  Gable  Club.  They're  all 
gabbling  about  Gable.  It  seems  the  lad  has  captured  the 
fancy,  not  alone  of  screen  fannettes,  but  also  of  the  loveliest 
of  the  screen  stars  themselves. 

It  is  a  remarkable  thing,  but  typical  of  Hollywood,  that  a 
few  years  ago  Gable  was  working  in  inconspicuous  and  un- 
publicized  parts  at  the  same  studio  where  he  is  now  the 
sensation  of  the  lot.  Even  the  waitresses  in  the  commissary 
wouldn't  give  him  a  tumble  then.  He  was  just  another  ham 
actor.  Now  the  feminine  stars  who  wouldn't  give  him  a  nod 
are  using  all  their  coyest  come-hither  glances  to  get  him  to 
play  as  their  leading  man. 

The  parts  he  has  played  have  brought  him  the  popularity 
that  caused  the  hysterical  writers  to  proclaim  him  as  another 
Valentino.    That  is  all  applesauce  and  no  discredit  to  Gable. 

SOON  some  fan  magazine  will  come  out  with  a  story  on 
'"The  Love  Life  of  Clark  Gable."  It  will  tell  of  his  great 
lure  and  all  that  sort  of  rot.  He  never  had  it  until  he  played 
sex-appeal  parts  in  pictures,  and  up  to  that  time  he  was  about 
as  deadly  as  the  nice  lad  who  measures  out  your  gasoline  at 
the  filling  station. 

Hollywood  never  made  a  fuss  over  Rudy  either  until  he 
got  those  great  roles  in  "The  Four  Horsemen"  and  "The 
Sheik." 

Through  all  this  fluttering  of  feminine  hearts,  Clark  Gable 
himself  remains  comparatively  unimpressed  by  it  all.  Not 
that  pretty  women  don't  interest  him — on  the  contrary, 
Gable  has  a  keen  appreciation  of  a  pretty  young  girl — of  a 
neatly  turned  feminine  figure — of  a  lithely  lovely  leg — of  a 
vivacious  young  face.  Impersonally  and  objectively,  he  likes 
them.     But  he  doesn't  marry  them. 

When  Clark  Gable  marries,  he  marries  women  quite  a  bit 
older  than  himself.  The  current  Mrs.  Gable  is  more  than  a 
decade  older  than  he.  She's  in  her  forties,  while  Gable  is 
thirty  or  thirty-one.  She's  got  a  daughter  old  enough  to  be 
Gable's  wife. 

There's  also  in  Hollywood  an  ex-Mrs.  Gable.  Her  name 
is  Josephine  Dillon.  She's  a  voice  culture  expert,  and  insists 
she  did  much  to  train  Clark  for  the  talkie  fame  that  he's 
achieved.  Josephine  Dillon,  too,  is  in  her  forties — more  than 
a  decade  older  than  the  lad  who  divorced  her  a  few  years  ago. 
When  she  was  Mrs.  Gable,  Clark  was  just  another  actor  trying 
to  get  a  job  in  Hollywood. 

And  there's  another  ex-Mrs.  Gable  in  existence  somewhere, 
although  the  facts  are  a  bit  vague.  Close  friends  of  Clark  tell 
of  how,  on  his  birthdays,  for  instance,  he  gets  telegrams  from  a 
nine-  or  ten-year-old  son  of  his,  in  school  somewhere. 

But  whether  he's  been  married  three  times,  or  three  hun- 
dred, that  indefinable  quality  called  sex-appeal  certainly  does 
currently  belong  to  Gable.     It's  manifest  off-screen  as  well  as 


M 


an! 


99 


Clark  Gable 


on,  those  women  who  have  met  and  talked  to  him  admit.  It's 
a  synthetic  quality  in  Gable,  compounded  of  a  number  of  in- 
gredients. 

There  is,  for  instance,  a  sort  of  confidential  "  just-between- 
you-and-me"  way  he  has  of  talking  to  girls  he's  just  been  in- 
troduced to.  It  makes  them  feel,  somehow,  that  here's  a  man 
who  understands  them  deeply. 

Besides,  he's  got  two  of  the  most  intriguing  dimples  women 
ever  laid  their  eyes  on.  He  has  a  strangely  frank,  disarming 
smile,  that's  appealingly  ingenuous. 

He  has  an  air  of  sincerity  which  women  suspect  isn't  true, 
so  they're  interested  in  finding  out  what  he's  covering  up  with 
that  air  of  sincerity.     His  personality  is  a  strangely  paradoxical 
combination  of  the  "lady-killer"  women 
ought  to  run  away  from,  and  the  "little 
bov''  tvpe  women  love  to  mother,  as  thev 
call  it.' 

He's  not  handsome,  in  the  conventional 
meaning  of  the  word,  but  he  challenges  a 
woman's  interest  at  sight. 

Hedda  Hopper,  for  instance,  put  it 
neatly  when  she  saw  a  picture  of  Gable 
astride  a  splendid  thoroughbred  steed. 
"When  you  can  look  at  a  man  on  a  thor- 
oughbred," she  remarked,  "and  not  say 
'what  a  good-looking  horse.'  then  the 
man  has  'Tt '!"' 

CLARK  GABLE  hasn't  got  a  swelled 
head  by  all  this  excitement  about 
Clark  Gable.  At  least,  not  yet — and  those 
who  think  they  know  the  man  feel  sure  he 
won't  ever  get  one.  He's  been  through 
too  many  hard  knocks  on  his  way  to 
where  he  is  today. 

He  was  born  in  Cadiz,  Ohio,  three  dec- 
ades ago.  His  stock  is  that  lusty,  sturdy 
clan  known  as  Pennsylvania  Dutch.  His 
father  was  an  oil-field  contractor,  and 
Clark—  they  called  him  Bill  then,  be- 
cause William  is  his  real  first  name— put 
in  his  licks  at  oil  wells  himself.  He 
worked  on  Oklahoma  derricks,  but  al- 
ways wanted  to  be  something  more  than 
an  oil  well  worker.  He  says  it's  just  luck — 
just  one  of  the  breaks — that  he's  a  screen 
star  today.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  Gable 
worked  unceasingly  toward  it. 

The  story  of  how  he  joined  a  barn- 
storming stock  company  to  get  away 
from  oil  wells  is  already  an  oft-told  tale, 
and  there's  no  sense  in  boring  you  with 
it  here.  You  know,  too,  probably,  of  how 
he  froze  his  hand  to  get  to  the  Coast — 
riding  blind  baggage  on  a  freight  train  in 
midwinter. 

He  knew  what  he  wanted,  and  he  aimed 
at  it. 


WITH  the  first  $2,000  he  saved  from 
his  stock  experience,  he  went  to  New- 
York  and  polished  himself  up.  He  spent 
the  whole  S2,000 — and  more — on  voice  cul- 
ture, English  training,  diction  correction. 
Gable  has  never  had  much  schooling;  be- 
neath his  carefully  cultivated  exterior, 
there's  still  much  of  the  oil-derrick 
worker.  His  manners  are  polite,  but 
they're  studiedly  so.  His  language  is  ex- 
cellent, but  he  watches  it  carefully. 
Clark  Gable,  as  you  meet  him  todav,  is 
the  Clark  Gable  that  Bill  Gable  "has 
learned  to  be. 


As  has  been  remarked  before,  Gable  isn't  handsome.  But 
he's  considerably  less  unhandsome  than  Nature  originally 
made  him. 

One  of  the  things  people  notice  about  him  when  he  smiles 
that  dimply  smile  of  his  are  his  exquisite  teeth.  They  ought 
to  be — they  cost  him  enough.  It  was  Pauline  Frederick's 
personal  dentist  who  made  Gable's  dental  equipment  what 
it  is  today. 

Gable  played  a  small  part  in  one  of  Pauline's  companies 
some  years  ago,  when  he  became  aware  that  his  teeth  would 
certainly  be  a  handicap  against  screen  close-ups.  So  Polly 
arranged  to  have  her  own  dentist  fix  them  up. 

Gable's  ears  used  to  stick  out  a  [  please  turn  to  page  103  ] 


One  of  the  mountainous  milestones  on  Clark  Gable's  forward  march 
to  talkie  fame  —  the  part  in  Norma  Shearer's  "A  Free  Soul."  Dastardly 
villain  though  he  was,  thousands  of  girls  rubbed  their  eyes,  felt  their 
own  pulses  race  into  high  and  murmured  dazedly,  "How  long  has 
this  Gable  person  been  going  on?" 


The  Unknown  Hollywood 


I  K 


now 


By 

Katherine  Albert 


The  author,  now  one  of  Hollywood's  celebrated  scribes 

and  a  member  of  PHOTOPLAY'S  editorial  staff,  at  the 

time  she  first  went  to  see  D.  W.  Griffith,  and  narrowly 

escaped  a  picture  career 


WHEN  I  stepped  off  the  train  in  Los  Angeles  twelve 
years  ago  I  was  the  dumbest,  most  ga-ga  girl  who 
had  ever  come  to  Hollywood  to  be  a  movie  star. 
Yesterday  I  made  this  remark  to  a  friend  who 
answered,  "That's  a  pretty  large  order,  my  good  woman,  and 
you'll  have  to  show  credentials  to  prove  it."  Well,  if  my  story 
which  is  now  about  to  unfold  doesn't  prove  that  first  statement 
I'll  give  each  and  every  one  of  you  a  nice  set  of  slightly  used 
sound  sequences. 

People  broke  down  in  tears  when  I  said  I  had  some  stories 
about  Hollywood  that  had  never  been  printed.  "It  isn't  pos- 
sible," they  said,  "the  town's  been  drained  dry  of  copy." 

But  that  isn't  so.  In  those  twelve  years  that  I've  lived  in  the 
most  bizarre  town  in  the  world  things  have  happened  that  are 
incredible.  Do  bear  with  me  while  I  set  them  down  and  do 
forgive  my  being  personal.  The  purpose  of  these  stories  is  to 
tell  you  things  about  the  stars  you  have  not  known  before,  but 
in  order  to  do  that  I  must  keep  myself  in  the  story,  since  it  is 
part  of  my  own  life. 

36 


Who  tells  for  the  first 

time   the   inside   story 

of  twelve  years  spent 

in  the  film  colony 


If  my  mother  had  known  that  I  was  going  to  write  my 
memoirs  some  day  she,  no  doubt,  would  have  strangled  me  at 
birth,  and  rightly  too.  But  perhaps  memoir  writing  is  no  worse 
than  my  early  ambition — movie  starring.  Let's  begin  at  the 
bitter  beginning. 

I  bore  down  upon  Hollywood  equipped  with  sixteen  years  of 
a  dull  life,  an  absolute  vacuum  in  the  place  where  my  brain 
should  have  been,  a  letter  of  introduction  to  D.  W.  Griffith,  an 
adoring  mother,  a  picture  hat  and  a  sickly  smile.  I  thought 
that  was  enough  to  assure  my  success  as  a  movie  star.  Many  a 
girl  has  arrived  in  Hollywood  with  less  and  climbed  those 
slippery  stairs. 

Griffith  was  the  undisputed  genius  of  the  cinema  at  that  time. 
He  had  just  completed  "  Broken  Blossoms,"  not  at  that  moment 
released.  "The  Birth  of  a  Nation"  was  still  a  vivid  memory. 
"Intolerance"  had  cost  him  his  fortune  but  had  set  him  up 
among  the  artists.  He  was  beginning  a  new  picture — which 
was  to  reach  the  screen  as  "The  Greatest  Question." 

THE  letter  of  introduction  was  a  very  personal  one,  for  he 
was  born  and  bred  in  my  part  of  the  country — Kentucky — 
and  we'd  known  his  family  always.  The  letter  duly  mailed,  his 
secretary  answered  and  made  an  appointment  for  me  and  my 
mother. 

I  shall  never  forget  my  first  glimpse  of  him.  His  studio  was 
that  rambling  green  one  where  Sunset  and  Hollywood  Boule- 
vards meet.  It  is  now  the  Tiffany  Studio.  He  was  standing  in 
a  set  that  had  been  used  for  "Scarlet  Days,"  an  enormous 
Western  saloon,  and  in  that  rough  room  he  presented  an  in- 
congruous figure,  in  his  immaculate  clothes,  his  soft  pearl  gray 
hat,  his  perfect  tie. 

As  I  approached  him  I  felt  the  terrific  force  of  the  man  and 
when,  during  his  conversation  with  my  mother — who  did  the 
talking  for  me — he  suddenly  looked  down  at  me  my  knees  went 
limp,  my  mouth  was  dry.  No  man  has  ever  had  such  a  scruti- 
nizing gaze  asD.  W.  Griffith.  It  seems  as  if  he  ferrets  out  all  the 
inner  recesses  of  your  soul.  At  that  time  (I  was  just  turned 
sixteen)  there  was  not  much  to  ferret  out  of  my  soul.  And  I 
think  Griffith  realized  it,  for  he  gave  up  looking  at  me  and 
turned  again  to  my  mother. 

Suddenly,  he  said  to  me,  "  Why  do  you  want  to  go  in  pictures? 
Why  don't  you  marry  or  something?" 

Speechless,  I  shook  my  head. 

He  shrugged  his  shoulders.  "Well,"  he  drawled — he  still 
kept  his  Southern  voice — "I  suppose  there's  as  much  unhappi- 
ness  in  marriage  as  in  anything  else."  Poor  Griffith — he  knew 
about  that! 

"Come  along,"  he  said,  and  led  the  way  through  a  maze  of 
sets  and  into  a  small  room  which  I  was  later  to  learn  was  a  pro- 
jection room.  A  score  or  more  of  people  were  already  seated 
there  and  my  eyes  suddenly  popped  out  on  stems.  Mind  you, 
I'd  never  seen  a  movie  star,  except  upon  the  screen,  and  there 
before  me  were— Lillian  Gish,  Carol  Dempster,  Clarine 
Seymour,  Ralph  Graves,  Bobby  Harron,  George  Fawcett, 
Richard  Barthelmess,  Eugenie  Besserer,  and  others  whose  faces 
were  familiar  but  whose  names  I  did  not  know. 


Two  of  this  vivid  com- 
pany —  Clarine  Seymour 
(one  of  the  most  sparkling, 
avid  women  who  ever  lived) 
and  Bobby  Harron  are  dead. 
Various  fates  have  pursued 
the  rest.  They  are  scattered 
now  across  the  face  of  the 
earth. 

There  was  a  stir,  as  if  a 
god  had  suddenly  appeared, 
when  Griffith  entered  the 
room  —  a  sort  of  general 
awareness,  a  brisk  sprucing 
up.  He  motioned  my  mother 
to  a  chair  among  the  great 
and  beckoned  Bobby  Harron 
to  come  to  us.  Briefly  he 
introduced  us  and  then  he 
turned  to  me:  "  Now,  you're 
supposed  to  be  a  little  coun- 
try girl  in  Kentucky,  let  us 
say,  and  this  boy  is  your 
sweetheart.  You  and  Bobby 
are  walking  down  the  road 
hand  in  hand.  I'll  tell  you 
what  to  do  as  we  go  on." 

He  sat  down,  leaving  me 
to  face  all  those  famous  eyes,  Bobby  Harron  standing  beside 
me.    My  first  day  in  a  studio,  my  first  glimpse  of  a  director  and 
film  stars,  and  I  found  myself  enacting  a  part. 

Always  ahead  of  his  time,  it  was  Griffith's  habit,  I  later  dis- 
covered, to  rehearse  an  entire  production  in  the  projection 
room,  without  props,  without  costumes,  before  a  single  camera 
was  turned.  Unheard  of  in  those  days,  this  is  now  the  pro- 
cedure with  every  big  pro- 
duction. 

I  thought  for  a  brief 
second  that  I  should  die 
right  then,  but  I  had  read 
interviews  about  what  being 
a  trouper  meant.  "The 
show  must  go  on,"  said  I  to 
myself,  and,  as  if  I  were  a 
robot,  I  felt  Bobby  Harron 
take  my  hand  and  somehow 
my  legs  seemed  to  move,  I 
don't  know  how,  across  the  floor  of  the  little  projection  room. 

Then,  suddenly,  a  strange  thing  seemed  to  happen.  Griffith's 
voice,  a  rich,  deep,  very  beautiful  voice,  droned  on,  telling  us 
what  we  were  to  do.  "Now  you  stop  by  a  tree.  It's  an  apple 
tree.  You  pick  up  an  apple,  Bobby,  and  hand  it  to  her.  Don't 
forget  you  love  her  very  much,"  etc.,  etc.,  etc.  And  the  room 
and  all  those  people  seemed  to  fade  away  and  I  found  myself 
actually  on  a  Kentucky  road,  actually  under  an  apple  tree,  not 
acting  a  part,  not  being 
spoken  to  by  the  great 
Griffith  but  living,  really 
being,  the  girl  I  was  playing. 
(What  a  fool  I  was!) 


BOBBY  stooped  and 
handed  me  the  imaginary 
apple.  He  took  an  imagi- 
nary knife  from  his  pocket 
and  peeled  it.  I  took  the 
peelings  from  him  and  threw 
them  over  my  left  shoulder. 
Griffith  suddenly  stopped 
me:  "What  are  you  doing?" 

"Why,  you  see,"  I  ex- 
plained, "you  throw  the 
apple  peeling  over  your  left 
shoulder  and  it  falls  in  the 
shape  of  an  initial.  That's 
the  initial  of  the  man  you're 
going  to  marry." 

Griffith  smiled.  He  turned 
to  Lillian  Gish,  who  sat  on 
his  right,  and  my  mother 
heard  him  say,  "The  kid's 
got  it." 


Bobby  Harron,  "the  sweetest  of  them  all"  and  Clarine 

Seymour,  "who  had  the  most  to  give,"   both  of  whom 

passed  away  in  youth,  in  Griffith's  "True  Heart  Susie" 

produced  twelve  years  ago 


The  self-told  story  of  a  little  girl 
who  won  a  master  director's 
notice  but  nevertheless  got  lost 
in  the  mad  Hollywood  shuffle 


Richard  Barthelmess,  "much  too  big  for  his  breeches," 

and  Dorothy  Gish,  who  had  a  temper,  in  "Peppy  Polly,"  a 

Griffith  comedy  made  around  a  dozen  years  ago 


Presently,  during  the 
course  of  rehearsal,  Eugenie 
Besserer  was  called  in  to 
play  the  part  of  my  mother. 
During  our  impromptu  con- 
versation—  we  made  up  our 
own  lines  ;is  they  came  to  us 
- — she  asked  me  a  question 
and  I  answered,  "Yes'um." 
Clarine  Seymour  laughed, 
"What  did  she  say?"  she 
called  out. 

"She  said,"  answered 
Griffith,  "what  any  well 
brought  up  Southern  child 
would  say.  S  h  e  s  a  i  d 
'Yes'um.'"  They  all 
laughed.  From  then  on  I 
was  "Little  Miss  Yes'um" 
around  the  studio. 

When  the  picture  was  re- 
leased— Lillian  Gish  played 
the   part    in    which    I    had 
rehearsed  —  it    was    called 
"The     Greatest    Question, 
The   Story   of    Little    Miss 
Yes'um."  Griffith,  with  the 
octopus-like  quality  of  every 
great  artist,  would  take  from  the  humblest.    He  wanted,  above 
all  else,  naturalness.    The  apple  peel  stuff  was  in  the  picture, 
too. 

Well,  that  was  my  introduction  to  Hollywood.    That  was  my 
baptism  of  fire. 

The  Griffith  studio,  I  was  later  to  discover,  was  the  strangest 
of  all.    There  was  a  quiet  dignity  about  it.    People  were  called 

by  their  last  names — a  habit 
which  Hollywood  scorns — 
and  a  Miss  or  Mister  was 
put  before  them.  We  re- 
hearsed for  weeks  with 
Clarine  Seymour,  Carol 
Dempster  and  I  taking  turns 
playing  the  leading  role. 

Lillian  Gish  always  sat 
by.  She  wore  simple  or- 
gandie frocks  and  a  big 
white  hat  through  the  crown 
of  which  a  ribbon  was  run.  She  wore  the  same  hat  but  changed 
the  ribbon  to  match  each  frock.  She  always  sat,  with  that 
strange  absorption  which  characterizes  her,  never  moving, 
never  taking  her  eyes  from  the  girls  who  played  the  part. 

I  DO  not  know  whether  Griffith  knew  the  part  was  to  be  Miss 
Lillian's  and  was  only  seeing  what  the  others  did  with  it  to 
take  the  best  of  each  performance,  or  whether  he  was  actually 

contemplating  one  of  us.  At 
any  rate  Miss  Lillian  did 
not  rehearse.  She  simply 
sat  watching,  her  pale  blue 
eyes  absorbing  every  gesture 
that  the  other  girls  made. 

If  Griffith  arrived  at  nine 
o'clock  to  begin  rehearsals 
we  knew  that  we  would  stop 
for  lunch  at  half-past  twelve. 
If  he  did  not  arrive  until 
eleven  it  meant  that  we'd 
work  until  three  before  stop- 
ping, because  he  had  had 
his  breakfast  late  and  was 
not  hungry.  When  he  was 
hungry  he  turned  to  his 
assistant  director  (his  name 
was  George  Bcranger  then, 
he  is  now  Andre  Beranger 
and  plays  character  roles) 
and  said,  "Tell  them  they 
may  cat." 

Often,  in  the  middle  of  a 
scene,  Griffith  would  leave 
the  set  and  be  gone  —  no- 

[  r-LEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  118] 


A  lovely,  calm  lady,  Corinne 
Griffith  —  because  she  has 
taught  herself  to  be  calm 


Gary  Cooper,  from  the  Mon- 
tana plains,  had  to  adjust 
himself  to  drawing-rooms 


Before  Mary  Astor  became 
the  mistress  of  herself  her 
very  career  was  threatened 


How  Ten  Stars  Overcame 


NINETY-NINE  out  of  every  one  hundred  women 
suffer  from  self-consciousness!  And  I  use  the  word 
"suffer"  advisedly  for  besides  torturing  us  mentally — 
and  goodness  knows  it  does  that — self-consciousness 
obscures  both  grace  and  beauty  and  is  an  implacable  foe  of 
poise.  Therefore  it  becomes  obvious  enough  that  no  one  can  be 
self-conscious  and  achieve  anything  like  their  highest  develop- 
ment as  an  individual. 

In  all  the  world  there  is  no  group  that  has  developed  their 
potentialities  for  beauty  and  charm  to  a  greater  extent  than  the 
motion  picture  people. 

However,  before  any  of  the  stars  achieved  the  attractiveness  for 
which  they  are  famed  today  they  had  the  bugaboo  of  self-conscious- 
ness to  combat. 

How  did  they  do  it?  Generally  speaking,  with  thought  and 
effort  and  courage,  essential  qualities  for  whatever  we  undertake. 

Norma  Shearer  used  to  be  frightfully  self-conscious.  It  is,  I 
think,  quite  safe  to  say  that  Norma's  career  once  was  jeopard- 
ized by  her  incessant  fear  that  she  wasn't  appearing  to  the  best 
advantage.  You  may  remember  after  her  first  marked  success 
in  "The  Stealers,"  Norma  chucked  everything  and  went  home 


It  was  Cecil  B.  De  Mille  who  cured  Lois  Wilson  of  her  embarrass- 
ment over  her  hands.  He  showed  her  how  to  make  them  an  asset 


By 

Adele   Whitely    Fletcher 


to  Canada.  Managers  had  delivered  something  of  an  ulti- 
matum with  their  "Thumbs  down  on  Shearer.  She's  too  high- 
hat." 

Haughtiness  a  Great  Mistake 

For  Norma,  like  thousands  of  other  girls,  had  sought  a  hide- 
away for  her  self -consciousness  in  a  defensive,  upstage  attitude. 
Nothing  could  be  more  ill-advised,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  for 
haughtiness  antagonizes  people,  and  if  we  weren't  hungry  for 
friendship   and   approbation   and  understanding  it   wouldn't 
matter  to  us  what  others  thought  of  us  and  we  wouldn't  become 
self-conscious  in  the  first  place.    The  surest  way  to  have  people 
like  you  is  not  to  be  afraid  to  let  them  see  that  you  like  them. 
But  to  get  back  to  Norma.    She  undoubtedly  has  self-con- 
scious moments  still,  but  there  is  a  difference.  Now 
she  is  mistress  of  herself. 

And  her  new  defense  of  perfect  grooming  is  in- 
finitely sounder  than  any  sophomoric  high-hat 
attitude. 


WE  all  know  the  acute  discomfort  experienced 
because  of  a  run  in  a  stocking.  We  all  know 
how  an  entire  evening  can  be  ruined  because  a 
dress  doesn't  fit  properly.  By  the  same  token  a 
meticulous  grooming  lends  a  beautiful  assurance. 

It  isn't  simply  that  Norma  now  has  money  to 
spend  on  clothes.  It  is  more  than  that.  It  is  that 
she  plans  her  wardrobe  carefully  and  then  sees  to  it 
that  shoes  are  polished,  clothes  pressed,  lingerie 
dipped,  hats  brushed,  etc.,  etc.  After  all  a  spot  on 
a  hundred  dollar  gown  is  quite  as  conspicuous  as  a 
spot  on  any  cheaper  dress. 

Norma  appears  to  have  borne  all  this  in  mind 
until  she  has  attained  a  peak  of  grooming  where  if 
she  finds  anyone  looking  at  her  she  knows  beyond 
any  shadow  of  a  doubt  there  is  nothing  to  be 
criticized  in  her  appearance  except  on  the  grounds 
of  personal  taste. 

She  has  the  comforting  knowledge  that  she  is 
neatly  and  correctly  dressed,  that  her  collar  and 
cuffs  are  spotless  and  crisp,  that  her  stocking  seams 


38 


Gloria  Swanson  had  social 
ambitions.  Nothing  makes 
you  more   self-conscious 


Richard  Dix  was  "all-hands- 
and-feet"  until  he  learned 
a    lot    about    human    nature 


The  fact  almost  everybody  is 
self-conscious  helps  Clau- 
dette     Colbert    fight    it 


Self -Consciousness 


Before  any  of  the  stars 
achieved  the  attractiveness 
for  which  they  are  famed  to- 
day they  had  the  bugaboo  of 
self-consciousness  to  combat 


are  straight,  that  her  heels  aren't  even  a  trifle  run  down,  that 
her  hair  has  been  well  shampooed  and  brushed  and  arranged, 
that  her  make-up  has  been  evenly  and  smoothly  applied,  and 
that  her  nails  are  everything  nails  should  be. 

And,  because  of  the  effort  she  spends  in  this  direction,  Norma 
always  may  enjoy  the  utmost  confidence  in  her 
appearance. 

And  anything  we  can  do  to  acquire  confidence  in 
ourselves  makes  self-consciousness  that  much  more 
unlikely  and  just  that  much  less  devastating. 

Which  reminds  me  of  a  school-girl  I  know.  She 
is  sixteen,  a  most  fertile  age  for  self-consciousness. 
Parties,  even  though  she  is  eager  for  a  gay  time, 
loom  as  nightmares  to  her.  Yet  again  and  again 
I've  known  this  girl  to  be  covered  with  confusion 
while  she  apologized  for  her  nails  or  her  shoes  or 
some  other  neglected  detail  of  her  appearance. 
And  I've  thought,  more  than  once,  if  she  would 
spend  half  the  time  and  energy  keeping  up  her 
appearance  that  she  spends  mortified  because  she 
has  been  careless  she  would  have  a  much  happier 
time  and  remove  what  is  one  of  the  chief  causes  of 
anyone's  self -consciousness. 

Where  a  Compliment  Worked  a  Miracle 


Different  people,  of  course,  display  their  self- 
consciousness  in  different  ways.  Lois  Wilson  re- 
members how  her  hands  grew  rapidly  until  she  be- 
came over-sensitive  about  them  and  spent  the  best 
part  of  her  life  trying  to  keep  them  inconspicuous. 

'Cecil  B.  De  Mille  found  me  out,  however," 


says  Lois,  "and  proceeded  to  tell  me  that  my  hands  were 
beautifully  formed  and  that  I  used  them  gracefully.  It  was.  of 
course,  the  greatest  kindness  he  could  have  done  me.  I  began 
to  take  better  care  of  my  hands  than  I  ever  had  before.  And, 
no  longer  embarrassed,  I  stopped  being  awkward  and  used  my 
hands  with  pride.  In  time  '  C.  B.'s'  compliment  came  that 
much  closer  to  the  truth. 

"Actually,  by  that  timely  observation  and  his  wise,  under- 
standing flattery,  'C.  B.'  turned  my  hands  from  a  handicap 
into  an  asset." 

There  is  a  similar  story  told  about  the  late  Roshanara,  the 
dancer,  world-famous  for  her  grace.  Once  upon  a  time 
Roshanara,  like  Lois,  was  self-conscious  over  her  hands. 

"Let  your  hands  drop  naturally  in  your  lap — like  lotus 
buds,"  an  old  Buddhist  priest  told  her.  He  made  Roshanara 
see  her  hands  as  flowers  so  vividly  that  thereafter  whenever  she 
relaxed  she  let  her  hands  drop  to  her  lap,  her  wrists  lightly 
crossed,  palms  facing  upward,  and  her  fingers  curled. 

And  thanks  to  that  old  priest  who  gave  her  a  beautiful  vision 
of  something  she  had  formed  the  habit  of  thinking  about  as 
awkward  and  clumsy,  Roshanara  lived  to  see  sculptors  strive  to 


Norma  Shearer  used  to  be  short-sighted  enough  to  hide  behind 
an  upstage  manner.    Today,  Norma  has  a  much  better  defense 


39 


What  These  Stars  Did  You,   Too,   Can  Do 


catch  the  eloquence  of  her  hands  in  their  marble,  while  poets 
never  wearied  of  singing  of  their  beauty. 

What  Makes  Us  Self-conscious? 

It  is,  I  think,  very  important  to  understand  what  prompts 
us — the  ninety-nine  out  of  every  one  hundred  of  us — to  be  self- 
conscious  in  the  first  place.  Then  we  will  be  that  much  more 
efficient  about  correcting  it.  Psychologists  tell  us  that  we  all 
are  naturally  eager  to  fit  into  an  approved  pattern.  Therefore 
any  departure  from  type  worries  us,  causing  us  to  become 
unduly  conscious  of  ourselves. 

Perhaps  we  are  a  little  too  fat.  Or  a  little  too  thin.  Too  tall. 
Too  short.  Perhaps  we  have  a  prominent  nose.  Crooked  teeth. 
Or  perhaps  when  we  were  very  young  our  mother  used  to  dress 
us  differently  from  other  children.  It  even  might  be  that  just 
once  we  had  to  wear  a  dress  or  a  hat  or  a  coat  that  we  despised 
and  in  which  we  were  unhappy  about  our  appearance. 

In  the  deep  and  usually  unexplored  forests  of  our  minds,  psy- 
chologists find  it  often  is  what  might  seem  a  trifling  experience  to 
the  lay  mind  that  makes  the  deepest, 
most  lasting  impression.  And  naturally 
enough,  the  more  sensitive  we  are  the 
more  any  chance  of  adverse  criticism 
or  adverse  opinions  concerns  us  and, 
wretchedly  enough,  the  more  self-con- 
scious we  become. 

Taking  all  of  this  into  consideration  it 
ceases  to  be  surprising  that  only  about 
one  person  out  of  every  hundred  escapes 
self-consciousness.  We  are  none  of  us 
perfect  and  we  are  none  of  us  as  serene 
and  confident  as  everybody  else  appears 
to  us  when  we're  in  the  throes  of  self- 
consciousness  ourselves. 

BOILED  down  to  their  essentials  you 
will  find  that  all  antidotes  for  self- 
consciousness  are  something  that  will  re- 
assure us  about  ourselves,  something  that 
will  give  us  some  degree  of  superiority. 

Self-consciousness  and  Social 
Ambitions 


Gloria  Swanson  is  an  excellent  case  in 
point.  Gloria  used  to  be  haughty.  Oh, 
so  haughty.  Let's  consider  the  predica- 
ment  in   which    Gloria   found    herself. 


"If  others  can  be  confident 
and  poised  so  can  I,"  insists 
Lilyan  Tashman,  calling  her 
sense  of  competition  into  play 


From  a  little  bathing  girl  she  had  evolved  a  great  and  famous 
star.  It  is  reasonable  to  suppose  she  felt  everyone  remembered 
her  cutting  capers  on  the  Sennett  sands.  And  Gloria  had  a 
bright  new  image  of  herself  as  a  bnlliant,  cultured  cosmopolite 
and  a  finished  dramatic  actress,  and  this  image  she  wanted 
everyone  else  to  share. 

I  don't  doubt  that  Gloria  had  social  ambitions,  too.  Most 
people  do  who  get  anywhere.  However,  nothing  will  make 
anyone  more  painfully  self-conscious.  The  very  fact  that  any- 
one is  ambitious  socially  admits  that  they  find  some  people 
more  desirable  than  others.  And  immediately,  of  course,  in 
making  their  comparisons,  they  become  awareof  the  things  these 
superior  people  possess  and  some  of  which  they  themselves  lack. 

FACED  with  this  situation,  Gloria  was  one  hundred  per  cent 
honest  with  herself. 

She  didn't  pretend  that  whatever  it  was  she  lacked  wasn't  im- 
portant. She  didn't  go  around  boasting,  by  one  means  or  another, 
that  she  was  as  grand  as  anybody  else.  Instead,  she  set  out  to 
acquire  all  the  things  she  believed  to  be  desirable  and  important. 

She  began  to  study  assiduously.  Danc- 
ing. Singing.  Voice  culture.  French. 
She  read  a  great  variety  of  things.  She 
was  "choosy"  about  her  personal  friends. 
Through  years  of  intense  application 
Gloria  concentrated  upon  her  studies 
until  she  acquired  her  share  of  all  the 
things  she  believes  to  be  worth  while. 

With  the  result  that  today  Gloria  has 
an  assurance,  and  the  old  self -conscious- 
ness which  she  sought  to  disguise  by  her 
haughty  manner  has  been  pretty  well 
banished.  At  any  rate,  Gloria  is  haughty 
no  longer  but  warm  and  gracious  and 
friendly.  She  may  have  bad  moments 
now  and  then  but  certainly  this  miser- 
able emotion  no  longer  menaces  her 
beauty,  her  grace,  or  her  poise. 

Poise  Sometimes  Is  Only  Camouflage 


Often  enough  the  very  person  you  be- 
lieve to  be  particularly  calm  and  con- 
fident is  the  most  self-conscious  person 
of  all.  Take  Alice  Joyce,  long  looked 
upon  as  the  most  poised  lady  in  the  film 
colony.  Alice — having  known  her  in- 
timately for  years  I  know  whereof  I 
[  please  turn  to  page  106  ] 


Esteh>  Taylor,  panicky  as  she 
was  about  to  address  a  group 
of  writers  one  evening,  had 
an  inspiration.  It  has  helped 
her  very  greatly  ever  since 


A  teacher  in  high  school 
taught  Ricardo  Cortez  that 
self-consciousness  is  closely 
related  to  cowardice.  That 
cured  him  of  the  habit 


Alice  Joyce  has  a  little  trick 
which  serves  as  a  conversa- 
tional spring-board  when  she 
is  timid  about  beginning.  It 
never  fails  to  register  for  her 


Gordon 


TTUCK  FINN  would  have  used  that 
■*■  *  long  pole  at  the  top  of  this  picture  to 
go  fishin'  with  and  left  Tom  Sawyer  and 
Becky  Thatcher  alone,  in  this  sylvan  re- 
treat.     But  Paramount  uses  it  to  hang 


the  ever-present  mike  on  and  moves 
right  in  with  a  crew  of  14 — count  'em 
— 14,  so  you  can  hear  what  Jackie 
Coogan  is  saying  to  Mitzi  Green  in  this 
tender  "shot"  from  "Huckleberry  Finn." 

U 


C  a  1  Yo  r  k 


Daily  Express 

Heigho,  cheerio  and  what  ho! 
You're  used  to  the  calm  Norma 
Shearer  of  Hollywood.  Free  and 
gay,  she  is  waving  bye-bye  to  a 
London  crowd  at  Waterloo  station 


CLARA  BOW  is  back  in  Hollywood  be- 
cause she  wants  to  be  near  Rex  Bell, 
who  is  plugging  along  in  his  picture 
career.  There's  loyalty  for  you.  When 
Clara  was  in  trouble  the  cowboy-sweet- 
heart was  right  by  her  side  in  every  emergency. 
Clara  is  having  daily  sessions  with  the 
dentist.  She  is  also  permitting  her  hair  to  go 
back  to  its  natural  red.  Every  writer  on 
Photoplay  is  betting  that  when  Clara  Bow 
comes  back  to  the  screen  it's  going  to  be  a 
real  comeback.  The  girl  has  been  a  bundle 
of  nerves  for  over  a  year,  and  although  the 
talkies  have  not  been  kind  to  her  as  yet,  we 
feel  that  the  company  that  secures  Clara  has 
a  great  chance  to  make  a  reputation  for  itself. 
Right  now  it  looks  as  if  Junior  Laemmle  will 
sign  her  for  Universal. 

Another  star  that  plans  a  comeback  and  for 
whom  everyone  in  Hollywood  is  rooting  is 
that  daring  and  flashing  youngster,  Tom  Mix. 

ROBERT  MONTGOMERY'S 
friends  are  ribbing  him  over  a 
story  which  leaked  out  of  New  York 
since  Bob  visited  the  big  town  a  few 
months  ago.  According  to  the  story, 
Tallulah  Bankhead  had  asked  to 
meet  Bob,  who  was  flattered  and  got 
a  mutual  friend  to  introduce  him. 

"Bob !  You  darling !"  the  impulsive 
Bankhead  greeted  him.  "Tell  me 
about  Garbo." 

A  FEW  months  ago  Marlene  Dietrich  stated 
in  an  interview  that  her  husband  had  no 
intention  of  coming  to  America  immediately. 
It  was  her  intention  to  spend  six  months  in  this 
country  and  six  months  in  her  home  in 
Germany.  Friend  husband  arrived  last  month. 
He  arrived  just  before  the  news  broke  in  the 
newspapers  that  Director  Von  Sternberg's 
ex-wife  was  suing  Marlene  for  libel  and  aliena- 
tion of  affections,  and  what-not. 

Hollywood  is  loyal  to  Miss  Dietrich  in  all 
this  legal  rumpus  and  while  the  director  and 
the  star  he  discovered  and  developed  into  one 
of  the  first  luminaries  of  the  screen  have  been 
seen  in  each  other's  company  in  public  places 


(fa0 


Wide  World 


Three  screaming  cheers !    Here's  Lila  Lee,  home  in  Hollywood  after 

two  years  of  illness.     Never  looked   better!     The  lad   is  John 

Considine,  the  producer 


of  Hollywood,  even  the  gossip  hounds  admit 
that  it  is  perfectly  reasonable  and  proper  that 
they  should.  It  is  simply  a  case  of  Svengali 
and  Trilby,  they  say. 

POOR  Charlie  Chaplin! 
Just  before  he  sailed  for  Europe,  he  was 
telling  a  group  of  friends  who  were  seeing  a 
preview  of  his  picture  in  a  private  projection 
room,  how  anxious  he  was  to  get  to  Spain 
and  see  a  bull-fight.     He  had  been  reading 


bull-fight  literature  by  the  volume.  It  had 
become  a  mania  with  him. 

During  his  telling,  he  got  up  and  put  on  an 
impromptu  bull- fight  pantomime  for  his  guests. 

"It  is  the  epitome  of  grace,"  he  exulted, 
dancing  as  only  Chaplin  can  dance  ideas.  "It 
is  beautiful,  not  gory."    Etc.,    etc.,  etc.  .  .  . 

AND  then  he  went  to  Spain.    And  attended 
a  bull-fight.  Eight  bulls  were  killed;  nearly 
a  score  of  horses  were  maimed,  gored. 


k2 


The  Monthly  Broadcast 

of 

Hollywood 
Goings-  On/ 


Keystone 


"Well,"  says  Gary  Cooper,  swinging  his  summer  felt,  "I  found  some 
hot  spots  abroad,  but  none  to  equal  New  York  harbor!"    On  ship- 
board, coming  home 


Chaplin  looked  at  it  for  a  while.  Then  he 
let  his  head  droop. 

He  covered  his  eyes  with  his  hands.  When 
the  crowd  roared  for  blood,  he  stuck  his  fingers 
in  his  ears. 

He  shuddered  a  bit  now  and  then. 

At  the  end  of  the  performance,  the  leading 
matador,  one  Marcial  Lallanda,  honored  Chap- 
lin by  presenting  him  with  the  ear  of  one  of 
the  slain  bulls,  neatly  sliced  off  and  wrapped 
in  a  bloody  silk  handkerchief. 


Charlie  accepted  it  as  gracefully  as  he  pos- 
sibly could. 

And  with  a  final  beau  gestc,  the  comedian 
remarked:  "It  was  a  great  and  beautiful 
spectacle." 

Then  he  went  home. 

HpHE  little  lady  who  has  been  reported  as 
*■  Charlie  Chaplin's  next  is  just  his  secretary. 
We  know  it  is  true  because  his  press-agent 
says  so. 


Keystone 


It's  National  Good  News  Month! 
All  well  after  three  years  recovering 
from  a  broken  hip,  our  friend  Anna 
Q.  Nilsson  greets  New  York.  She 
convalesced  in  Sweden 


VIRGINIA  VALLI  and  Charles  Farrell 
have  completed  their  beach  home  at  Es- 
condido,  the  new  movie  colony  four  miles  north 
of  Malibu. 

And  now  we  learn  that  Janet  Gaynorand 
Lydell  Peck  have  purchased  a  lot  just  a  stone's 
throw  away  and  are  going  to  build  im- 
mediately. 

Just  another  proof  of  the  friendship  of  the 
two  families. 

GLORIA  SW  ANSON  attended  the 
opening  of  her  picture,  "In- 
discreet," in  London,  accompanied 
by  no  less  a  personage  than  ex-King 
Alphonso  of  Spain.  They  were  prop- 
erly chaperoned  by  Lady  Mount- 
batten. 

WHEN  Gloria  Swanson  returned  to  Amer- 
ica from  Europe,  these  were  the  startling 
things  that  happened: 

Aboard  the  Aquitania  with  her  was  Michael 
Farmer,  ex-boy  friend  of  Marilyn  Miller  and 
gay  blade  who  once  broke  the  bank  at  Monte 
Carlo.     Neither  would  admit  an  engagement. 

Gloria  did  not  wear  an  Empress  Eugenie 
hat  (but  don't  let  that  worry  you — she  will 
and  like  it  before  this  season  is  over). 

She  admitted  that  she'd  seen  Constance 
Bennett  and  the  Marquis  accidentally  at  a 
tea.  And  she  added  (with  nonchalant  shrug 
of  shoulder),  "It's  her  life." 

GLORIA    brought    back    dozens   of    Paris 
gowns  for  her  next  picture. 
But  she  did  not  dress  for  dinner  once  on 
the   boat   (maybe   Mike   likes  sports  clothes 
better). 

Everything  was  all  very  gay  and  if  you  think 
she  crossed  the  ocean  with  an  attractive  man 
to  spite  Connie  and  the  Marquis — who  crossed 
together — that's  your  own  business. 

IN  "Murder  by  the  Clock,"  Irving 
Pichel  plays  a  moronic  murderer. 
Pichel  has  three  children. 
He  has  forbidden  them  to  see  the 
picture. 

43 


Love!    Marriage!    Divorce!    Laughter!   Tears! 


HERE'S  a  brand  new  and  amazing  Mary 
Pickford  story.  And  it  goes  to  show  that 
even  queens  sometimes  have  a  change  of 
heart.  Pickfair  is  on  a  neighboring  hilltop 
to  the  Eleanor  Boardman-King  Vidor  home 
but  during  all  the  time  that  Eleanor  has  lived 
there  Mary  has  never  been  visiting.  But  one 
of  those  sweltering  mornings  Pickford  called 
Eleanor  on  the  phone  and  asked  what  she 
was  doing. 

Eleanor  replied  that  she  was  trying  to  keep 
cool.     Mary  said  so  was  she. 

"Well,"  said  Eleanor,  there  seeming  to  be 
nothing  else  to  say  at  the  moment,  "come  on 
over  and  we'll  keep  cool  together." 

And  Mary  did  and  stayed  to  lunch  and  spent 
the  afternoon — just  chatting  in  a  friendly, 
neighborly  fashion. 

HTHE  Love  Parade— 

•*■  George  Webb  passed  the  cigars  around. 
Wife  Esther  Ralston  presented  him  with  a  baby 
daughter.  She  was  named  Mary  Esther.  .  .  . 
There's  a  rumor  around  that  Dolores  Costello 
is  expecting  the  second  Blessed  Event.  .  .  . 
Karen  Morley  and  Buddy  Gillespie,  a  studio 
art  director,  are  among  the  newer  romancers. 
.  .  .  Lady  June  Inverclyde  has  gotten  her 
divorce.  .  .  .  Wedding  bells  for  her  and 
Lothar  Mendes  (Dorothy  Mackaill's  ex)  soon. 
.  .  .  Jillian  Sand,  English  actress  who  made 
just  one  picture  in  Hollywood  and  is  now  in 


Wide  World 


Who  on  earth,  can  these  quaint  folk  be?    You  must  believe  us  when  we 
tell  you  they  axe  Connie  Bennett  and  her  Marquis  "Hank"  de  Falaise, 
on  shipboard,  Paris-bound! 


New  York,  will  be  married  to  Hampton  Robb, 
vice-president  of  a  big  food  importing  com- 
pany. .  .  .  What  about  Jack  Gilbert  and 
Marjorie  King?  There  are  those  who  say 
they're  exchanging  that  kind  of  glances.  .  .  . 
Ivan  Lebedeff  took  Frances  Dee  to  the  opening 
of  "An  American  Tragedy"  in  Hollywood.  .  .  . 
And  Joe  Von  Sternberg  took  Marlene  Dietrich 
and  her  hubby.  .  .  .  Mary  Doran  and  press 
agent  Joe  Sherman  told  it  to  a  judge,  but  not 
what  you  think.  It  was  a  judge  who  married 
them.  .  .  .  Baton-wielder  Paul  Whiteman  and 
Margaret  Livingston  were  married  in  Denver 
— the  romance  has  been  hot  for  a  long  time. 

u 


ANITA  PAGE  celebrated  her  twenty-first 
birthday  by  losing  fifteen  pounds.  Dad 
Pomares  sprung  a  surprise  party  on  her,  invit- 
ing twenty  of  her  non-professional  friends  and 
presenting  her  with  her  grandmother's  diamond 
ring. 

The  only  vacant  place  was  one  marked 
"Junior  Laemmle,"  who  is  very  fond  of  Anita 
and  who  was  too  ill  to  be  there. 

LOVE  and  Things  Like  That— 
Lila  Lee  sails  for  Tahiti  for  a  vacation 
before  undertaking  screen  comeback  .  .  .  and 
Johnny  Farrow,  her  fiance,  sailing  later  on  a 


Wide  World 

Flat  on  her  back,  recovering  from  a 
broken  hip,  poor  Joan  Bennett  gazes  at 
a  picture  of  daughter  Adrienne,  three. 
She'll  be  away  from  us  four  months. 
Note  the  monogrammed  bed  linen 


world  tour,  lets  it  be  known  he  will  stop  at 
Tahiti.  .  .  .  Yola  D'Avril  is  sued  for  divorce 
by  composer  Edward  Ward  who  says  she  went 
out  with  other  men.  .  .  .  Wesley  Ruggles  gave 
Arline  Judge  a  wrist  watch  inscribed  "To 
Arline  With  My  Love.  Wesley."  .  .  .  Roscoe 
"Fatty"  Arbuckle  and  twenty-four-year-old 
Addie  McPhail  plan  European  honeymoon 
after  their  marriage.  .  .  .  Don  Alvarado  and 
his  wife,  Ann,  trying  a  trial  separation  before 
deciding  whether  to  divorce  or  try  again.  .  .  . 
Creighton  Hale  weds  society  woman  Kathleen 
Bering.  .  .  .  Edna  May  Oliver  (now  don't 
laugh)  gets  a  divorce  and  all  Hollywood  is  sur- 
prised that  she  was  ever  a  Mrs.  .  .  .  Edna's 
only  comment  was  a  sniff.  .  .  .  Ralf 
Harolde's  wife  gets  divorce  because  hubby's 
parties  kept  her  awake.  .  .  .  It's  a  boy  at  the 
Lester  Vails.  .  .  .  Jack  Dempsey  filed  his 
divorce  complaint.  The  next  day  Estelle 
Taylor  countered.  Both  charged  mental 
cruelty.  .  .  .  Claire  Windsor  went  to  Atlantic 
Beach — only  for  the  day — with  Gilbert  W. 
Kahn,  son  of  banker  Otto.  .  .  .  Rex  Lease  and 
Eleanor  Hunt  have  decided  to  stay  married. 
And  were  they  the  loving  couple  at  a  recent 
Embassy  party! 

THERE  are  rumors  that  Norma  Talmadge 
plans  a  screen  return  this  fall  under  the 
M-G-M  banner — and  with  Clark  Gable  as  her 
leading  man. 

What  makes  it  fairly  credible  is  the  extreme 
vigor  of  the  official  denials  from  all  sources. 

STRANGE  coincidence,  isn't  it? 
In  the  very  week  when  Anna  Q.  Nilsson 
returned  to  Hollywood  for  a  picture  comeback, 
after  a  long,  long  time  in  hospitals  and  rest 
homes  that  followed  a  broken  hip  when  she  fell 
from  a  horse,  Joan  Bennett  should  fall  from  a 
horse  and  suffer  a  broken  hip ! 

And  while  Anna  makes  plans  to  play  in 
pictures  again,  Joan  prepares  for  "at  least  four 
months"  in  plaster  cast  and  hospital,  and  her 
doctors  refuse  to  say  how  long  before  she  can 


Hollywood  Life  is  Stranger  than  Pictures! 


Acme 


Recognize  the  baby?  It's  the  daughter 
of  Nils  Asther,  heart-thumper  of  silent 
days,  in  the  arms  of  her  mother,  Vivian 
Duncan.  Mamma  and  Evelyn  are  home 
from  Germany 


work  in  pictures  again.  They  point,  strangely, 
to  the  very  case  of  the  Nilsson  long  absence  as 
a  warning  of  trying  to  return  to  work  too  soon. 

TNCIDENTALLY,  Hollywood  marvels  at 
-L Joan's  courage.  Because  of  telephone  direc- 
tions getting  mixed  up,  it  was  two  hours  before 
an  ambulance  arrived  at  the  location  scene 
where  Joan  was  injured.  For  thoee  two  hours, 
she  lay  on  the  hard  ground,  not  complaining  or 
crying  or  fainting,  but  wisecracking  and  joking 
with  the  rest  of  the  company  who  were  afraid 
to  move  her  before  doctors  arrived. 

T7"  ARIETY  spins  the  yarn  about  the 
"  writer  who  was  reading  his  story 
to  the  boss.  The  exec  suddenly 
stopped  him. 

"Now  explain  why  the  hero  goes  to 
the  South  Seas,"  he  said. 

"That's  not  important,"  said  the 
writer.  "The  guy's  young — he  wants 
to  get  away,  to  travel — why,  there  are 
a  thousand  reasons." 

"Name  one!  Name  one!  You 
gotta  give  me  a  reason." 

"Okay,"  said  the  writer,  pretty 
mad  by  now.  "He  wants  to  camp 
out!" 

TT'S  the  sweet  and  simple  life  for  Nancy 
-^Carroll.  And  maybe  I'm  getting  sentimental 
in  my  old  age  but  I  think  it's  all  pretty  nifty. 
She  and  husband  Bolton  Mallory  took  a  small 
apartment  in  New  York — living-room,  bed- 
room and  tiny  kitchen.  It's  just  across  the 
street  from  Bolton's  office. 

What's  more,  Nancy  refused  to  have  a  maid. 
"Who  wants  anybody  else  around  on  a  honey- 
moon? "  said  Nancy.  But  that  isn't  all.  She 
gets  up  early  in  the  morning  and  cooks 
Bolton's  breakfast!  "And  I  can  give  you  the 
grandest  recipe  for  scrambled  eggs  with  onions 
you've  ever  tasted,"  she  said.  It  must  be  love 
all  right,  all  right,  between  Nancy  and  that 
handsome  husband  of  hers. 


to  have  around.  Termites  also  had  gotten 
into  the  beams  of  the  house.  These  little 
fellows,  a  species  of  insect,  bore  into  the 
timbers.  Unless  they  are  checked  they  will 
destroy  the  foundations  of  any  structure. 
These  little  insects  caused  an  item  to  be 
published  in  the  paper  that  the  youn^  couple 
were  on  the  verge  of  a  split.  Thai's  all  there 
was  to  the  rumor — black  widows  and  termites. 

INA  CLAIRE  asked  a  number  of  people  to 
spend  the  week-end  with  her  at  her  beach 
house.  When  one  of  the  guests  arrived  he  was 
accompanied  by  six  people,  all  strangers  to  Ina. 

"I'm  very  sorry,"  Ina  greeted  them,  "but 
I've  prepared  for  a  certain  number  of  quests 
and  I'll  have  to  ask  you  to  come  another  time." 

For  which  all  Hollywood  will  give  Ina  three 
rousing  cheers.  That  is,  all  except  the  six  un- 
invited guests. 

ON  the  same  day  Ina  Claire  got  her 
decree  from  Jack  Gilbert,  Bull 
Montana  was  sued  for  divorce  by  his 
wife. 

"Ah,  well,"  sighed  Bull,  "I  guess 
I'm  no  better  than  Jack!" 

HEY,  there,  El  Brendel — move  over.    Make 
room  there,  Miss  Garbo.    There's  another 
Swede  crashing  in — no,  two  more ! 

It  seems  that  Vivian  Duncan   (Mrs.   Nils 


International 


Romancers,  or  just  good  pals?    Gloria  Swanson  and  Michael  Farmer  on 

their  way  home  from  Europe.    Farmer  was  once  reported  engaged  to 

Marilyn  Miller.    And  now — ? 


"VDUNG  Douglas  Fairbanks  was  playing 
■*■  chess  with  his  pal,  Allen  Vincent,  handsome 
New  York  actor,  one  night  while  Joan  was 
working  at  the  studio.  The  next  day  Joan 
was  tipped  off  by  her  maid  that  a  black 
widow  had  been  seen  playing  around  the 
house.  Joan  immediately  packed  her  bags 
and  moved  to  the  Ambassador.  Wait  a  minute. 
Let  us  finish  this.    Doug,  went  with  her. 

The  following  day  the  house  was  full  of 
fumes  and  five  or  six  men  running  around  in 
gas  masks.  It  wasn't  the  kind  of  a  black  widow 
you  go  into  court  about.  It's  the  kind  of 
spider  that  isn't  such  a  pleasant  house  guest 


Asther  to  you,  Mister  Immigration  officer!) 
has  to  return  to  America  as  a  Swedish  subject, 
because  of  her  marriage  to  Nils  Asther  and 
the  birth  of  their  baby  daughter.  The  baby — 
Evelyn,  a  half  year  old  now — was  shunted 
about  from  consulate  to  consulate  in  Paris 
when  Mamma  Vivian  tried  to  get  passports 
to  return  to  America.  The  mess  was  finally 
straightened  out  by  registering  the  baby  as 
Swedish,  and  mama,  too.  The  complications 
arose  in  France  because  the  baby  was  born  in 
Germany  of  an  American  mother  and  Swedish 
papa — oh,  what  a  League  of  Nations! 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  78  ] 

45 


UNITED  Press  dispatch  printed  in  a  thousand  American 
newspapers: 
Copenhagen,   Denmark,  June  22 — Greta  Garbo, 
the  alluring  screen  star,  is  proceeding  to  Europe  to 
marry  a   Swedish   merchant   named   Andersson,   the  Svenske 
Dagbbladet  said  today. 

Scene — The  living-room  of  the  new  Andersson  home  at 
Svolljskjff,  Sveden.  Mrs.  Greta  Garbo  Andersson  is  pacing  up 
and  down  the  room.  Mr.  Greta  Garbo  Andersson,  the  groom, 
is  sitting  by  the  fire,  in  djressing  gjown  and  sjlippers,  trying  to 
read  his  evening  paper,  The  Svolljskjff  Gjazette-Tjimes-Stjar. 

Mr.  Andersson  (looking  up  from  the  sjports  page) — Please, 
my  darling,  can't  you  sit  quietly  for  a  little  while?  How  can  I 
read  my  paper  when  you're  hopping  dis  way  and  dat  way?  This 
eternal  stamping  up  and  down  is  driving  me  bjughouse! 

Mrs.  Andersson — Ach! 

Mr.  Andersson — Please,  as  a  favor  to  me,  sit  down!  Are 
you  happy?     Do  you  ljove  me?     Do  you  want  a  ping-pong 

46 


An  intimate  peek  inside 
the  home  of  the  Stock- 
holm  Sizzler  and  the 
Possible  Spouse 


By   Leonard  Hall 


table,  or  a  horse  and  buggy,  or  a  new  Fjord?    I  do  so  want  to 
make  you  happy,  my  sveet! 

Mrs.  Andersson  (hurling  herself  into  a  chair  and  hurling 
her  hands  to  her  brow  in  Posture  VI) — Garbo  iss  so  cold! 

Mr.  Andersson — My  poor  dear  girl!  We'll  start  for  the 
South  of  France  tomorrow!  The  match  business  will  just  hjave 
to  look  out  for  itself,  that's  all.  Will  you  be  glad  to  be  in  that 
nice  Nice? 

Mrs.  Andersson — South  of  France?    It  iss  so  hot! 

Mr.  Andersson — Oh,  I  know  what  it  is!  You  miss  dat 
Hollywood!  I  build  you  the  only  house  in  Svolljs — whatever 
the  name  of  this  djamn  place  is — with  a  solarium,  an  indoor 
swimming  pool  and  a  quarter-mile  running  track,  and  this  is  the 
thanks  I  get!    It  gets  a  gjuy  sore,  Greta! 


Mrs.  Andersson — Ach,  Olaf- 
always  alone — alone — alone! 


-you  arc  sveet!    But  Garbo  iss 


Mr.  Andersson— Alone,  ejh?  Well,  I  must  say  I  like  that! 
Here  I  am  neglecting  the  match  factory  until  business  is  prac- 
tically shot  to  hjell,  so  I  can  be  with  you!  And  how  about  that 
bjridge  club  I  organized  just  for  you?  Don't  you  enjoy  playing 
cjontract  with  Mrs.  Peterssen  and  Mrs.  Rasmussen  and  Mrs 
Smijth-Jjones?    I  must  say  you're  a  little  hard  on  me! 

Mrs.  Andersson — Hard  on  you,  Olaf,  it  iss  you  dat  is  hard 
on  me!  Peehaps  you  do  not  realize  dat  de  world  is  waiting 
for  de  sunrise  and  Garbo.  I  am  a  world  figger  and  iss  it  my 
fault  dat  you  are  yust  Garbo's  mate,  my  sveet? 

Mr.  Andersson — Ye  gods,  dat  is  just  it!  I  am  just  Mr. 
Garbo,  the  feller  dat  hitched  his  wagon  to  a  star,  and  be- 
lieve you  me,  darling,  if  the  harness  broke  it  would  be  just 
too  bad  for  you  and  me!  But  maybe  you  would  be  happier 
back  in  dat  Hollywood  where  you  were  de  big  mystery? 

Mrs.  Andersson — De  big  mystery!  Dat  is  what  dey  said 
in  de  magazines  in  America!  Garbo  a  mystery — dat  iss  a  big 
laugh.  Garbo  is  hungry  and  sleepy  and  bored  and  tired  and 
full  of  pep  when  de  rain  comes  down  but  de  Americans  dey 
do  not  understand  dat!  But  if  Garbo  was  not  a  mystery 
what  would  de  fan  magazines  do  for  stories?  So  it  iss  better 
dat  Garbo  is  a  mystery  and  den  great  writers  like  Len  Hall 
can  make  a  living.  But  dey  do  not  know  dat  poor  Garbo  iss 
alone — always  alone. 

Mr.  Andersson — There  you  go  again  my  pjet  with  that 
alone  business.  Goodness  knows  you  have  many  more  friends 
here  in  whatever  the  name  is  than  anyone  else  heaven  forbid. 

Mrs.  Andersson  (hurling  herself  out  of  the  chair  and  hurling 
herself  up  and  down  the  room  in  Posture  XXIII) — You  don't 
understand,  Olaf — it  iss  my  soul  dat  iss  alone!    If  I  could  only 


If  Garbo  Marries 


be  on  a  high  mountain  top,  with  only  de  sea  and  de  wind  for 
company.  Dat  ole  davvil  sea — dat's  from  "Anna  Christie," 
Olaf!    Den  Garbo  would  not  be  so  lonely! 

Mr.  Andersson — Now  it's  the  sea!  Well,  Sveden  has  plenty 
of  sea!  I'll  buy  you  a  mountain  on  the  sea,  or  I'll  buy  you  two 
mountains  and  let  you  yump  from  one  to  the  other.  Now  tell 
me  straight  out,  Greta — you're  not  thinking  of  some  other  man 
over  there  in  Hollywood? 

Mrs.  Andersson  (laughing  mirthlessly  with  Mirthless  Laugh 
CIVX,  Clarence  Brown  type) — Ach,  men,  men,  men!1  Always 
men  t'ink  it  iss  udder  men!  No,  my  Olaf — it  iss  yust  de  sea, 
and  de  wind,  and  my  beloved  rain! 

Mr.  Andersson  (hurling  his  paper  into  the  fire) — It's  too 
much  for  me,  Greta!  Every  woman  in  Sveden  is  envying  your 
wealth,  and  position,  and  this  beautiful  house,  and  you  moan 
and  groan  and  whine  about  the  sea!  I'll  ring  up  Dr.  Bjrrnffkjjs 
—what  you  need  is  a  djarned  good  tonic,  my  lady! 

Mrs.  Andersson— Iss  dere  a  tonic  for  de  hungry  soul?  Ach, 
if  it  would  only  rain,  and  rain!  Den  I  could  walk  and  walk  in 
de  rain!  Tell  me,  my  Olaf — can  all  your  money  from  de  match 
factory  make  it  rain  for  Garbo? 

Mr.  Andersson  (leaping  from 
his  chair  and  landing  practically  be- 
side himself) — Hjell's  bjells!  So 
it's  rain  you  want,  my  beauty? 
Twit  me  because  my  matches  won't 
pay  for  rain,  ejh,  my  pjet? 

(He  picks  up  a  two-gallon  bowl 
of  Swedish  punch  from  a  nearby 
table,  hurls  it  into  the  fire,  squirts 
a  seltzer  bottle  at  the  portrait  of 
Grandpa  Andersson  above  the 
mantelpiece,  and  dashes  off  a  large 
tumbler  of  Skoal,  the  native 
schnapps  of  Sveden.  His  white- 
faced  bride  stands  aghast  in  Aghast 
Posture  XXXVII.) 


r- '- 


r 


'  '   2  :'i^ 


"No  rain,  ejh?" 
howls  Mr.  Anders- 
son, letting  go  with 
the  seltzer  at 
Grandpa  Ander- 
sson lurking  over 
the  mantelpiece. 
"Is  that  wet  enough 
for  you?"  And 
dashes  off  a 
tumbler  of  Skoal 


Mr.   Andersson- 
enough  for  you? 


-Is  tlia 


Mrs.  Andersson  (reaching  for 
her  umbrellas  and  gum-boots) — 
Ach,  Olaf,  how  I  luff  you — so 
strong,  so  cruel!  Now  I  t'ank  I  go 
home  to  Mamma! 

(Merciful  Curtain.) 


Illustrated   by 
Van  Arsd  ale 


47 


Select  Your  Pictures  and  You  Won't 


* 


HUCKLEBERRY  FINN— Paramount 


ANOTHER  of  Paramount's  delightful  series  of  kid 
pictures.  Not  as  great  as  "  Skippy,"  not  quite  as  good  as 
"Tom  Sawyer,"  but  withal  a  splendid  successor  to  both. 
Mark  Twain's  grand  old  tale  has  been  carefully  handled, 
and  comes  alive  with  loads  of  laughs  and  a  tear  or  two  for 
the  sentimentalists.  Junior  Durkin,  as  Huck  Finn,  turns  in 
the  finest  performance  of  his  screen  career;  he  doesn't  act 
Huck,  he  just  is  Huck.  Jackie  Coogan  makes  good  again  as 
Tom  Sawyer. 

Mitzi  Green  is  in  the  cast,  but  her  fans  will  complain  at 
the  smallness  of  her  part.  The  same  holds  true  for  Jackie 
Searl.  The  supporting  cast  of  adults  turn  in  excellent  per- 
formances.    Young  and  old  alike  will  enjoy  this. 


& 


BUSINESS  AND  PLEASURE— Fox 


IF  it  weren't  for  Will  Rogers,  this  would  be  just  another 
movie,  and  not  so  much  of  a  one  at  that.  But  thanks  to 
the  man's  inimitable  drolleries,  it's  lifted  into  the  worth- 
while entertainment  class.  The  story  is  from  Booth  Tark- 
ington's  "The  Plutocrat." 

It  concerns  an  American  razor  manufacturer  who  is  cap- 
tured by  a  tribe  of  warring  Arabs.  How  he  calls  off  their 
war  by  shaving  them  clean-faced  is  the  crux  of  the  plot, 
such  as  it  is. 

Somewhere  in  its  unfolding,  Jetta  Goudal  essays  a  screen 
comeback  as  a  vamp.  She's  interesting,  but  a  bit  too  old- 
fashioned  in  her  siren  technique. 

When  Rogers  is  talking,  the  film  is  a  riot.  Particularly 
when  he  makes  up  as  a  swami  and  tells  his  wife's  fortune. 

48 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

(heo.  v.  s.'fat.  OFF.)       tf  J 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


* 


PALMY  DAYS— United  Artists 


TEN-TO-ONE,  this  will  bring  back  film  musicals  in  a 
veritable  inundation.    It's  that  good! 

"Palmy  Days"  is  a  typical  Cantor-and-nonsense  show. 
What  plot  there  is  becomes  merely  the  skeleton  on  which 
the  comedy,  the  gags,  the  songs,  the  dances,  the  beauty, 
the  action  of  this  film  have  been  hung. 

It  moves  with  zip  from  start  to  finish,  with  never  a  dull 
moment. 

It's  mostly  Eddie  Cantor,  of  course.  He's  never  been 
funnier  than  as  the  sap  in  the  trick  bakery — an  amazing 
cruller  factory  that's  run  entirely  by  gorgeous  girls  who 
wear  as  little  as  possible  whenever  possible.    Ah,  me  .  .  .! 

Cantor's  gags  are  hilarious,  whether  old  or  new.  Char- 
lotte Greenwood  is  another  grand  funster. 

Barbara  Weeks,  lovely  and  snappy,  makes  a  sensational 
screen  debut. 

There  are  several  songs,  at  least  one  of  which — "Yes, 
Yes" — may  prove  a  big  hit.  Eddie  and  Charlotte  revive 
the  chiropractor  gag,  and  if  that  sequence  doesn't  tie  au- 
diences in  knots,  then  nothing's  funny.  And  in  spite  of  the 
fact  that  the  girls  present  extensive  epidermic  displays, 
the  fun  always  manages  to  remain  clean. 

If  they  can  make  musicals  like  this,  then  there's  no  reason 
at  all  why  they  shouldn't  come  back. 


Have  to  Complain  About  the  Bad  Ones 


The  Best  Pictures  of  the  Month 


PALMY  DAYS 
HUCKLEBERRY  FINN 
BUSINESS  AND  PLEASURE 


STREET  SCENE 

LARCENY  LANE 

THE  GUARDSMAN 


The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 

Eddie  Cantor  in  "Palmy  Days" 
Charlotte  Greenwood  in  "Palmy  Days" 

Barbara  Weeks  in  "Palmy  Days" 
Junior  Durkin  in  "Huckleberry  Finn" 
Jackie  Coogan  in  "Huckleberry  Finn" 

Alfred  Lunt  in  "The  Guardsman" 

Lynn  Fontanne  in  "The  Guardsman" 

Will  Rogers  in  "Business  and  Pleasure" 

James  Cagney  in  "Larceny  Lane" 

Joan  Blondell  in  "Larceny  Lane" 

Beulah  Bondi  in  "Street  Scene" 

Edmund  Lowe  in  "The  Spider" 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  reviewed  will  be  found  on  page  126 


* 


STREET  SCENE— United  Artists 


AN  almost  perfectly  produced  and  acted  picture.  Not  a 
flaw  has  slipped  by  the  eye  of  director  King  Vidor. 
It's  the  pinnacle  of  his  directorial  career. 

Just  one  question  worries  us.  Will  it  be  box-office?  Does 
the  public  really  want  a  true  cross-section  of  life  presented 
as  it  actually  happens?  We  hope  it  goes  big;  big  money  on 
this  would  encourage  more  really  excellent  pictures. 

Here  are  the  humor,  the  pathos,  the  gripping  drama 
which  comes  to  just  one  street  of  one  city.  You've  seen  it 
again  and  again;  you've  read  it  as  reported  in  your  daily 
paper. 

The  picture  moves  rapidly,  adroitly  and  dramatically. 
If  you  saw  the  stage  play,  which  was  a  Broadway  hit,  you 
will  be  amazed  to  see  the  advantages  of  sustained  interest 
given  by  the  picture  presentation. 

There  are  thirty-four  main  characters — mostly  from  the 
original  New  York  cast.  Sylvia  Sidney,  Estelle  Taylor, 
William  Collier,  Jr.,  and  Lawrence  Wagner  are  the  main 
screen  contributions.  Each  of  the  thirty-four  does  his  share 
so  aptly  that  all  must  share  honors. 

However,  Beulah  Bondi,  as  Mrs.  Jones,  has  the  advantage 
of  more  lines  than  the  average  player.  She  makes  the  most 
of  it.  She  almost  steals  the  picture!  Estelle  Taylor  is  good 
as  Sylvia's  mother. 


ft 


LARCENY  LANE— Warners 


ANOTHER  "crook  picture" — but  even  the  most  mili- 
tant crusader  against  that  type  of  story  won't  be  able 
to  say  that  it  isn't  tremendous  entertainment.  And,  after 
all,  isn't  it  entertainment  you  ask  for  in  the  theater? 

It's  the  rocket-speed  tale  of  a  smalltown  bellhop  and  his 
chambermaid  girl  friend,  and  their  ambition  to  become  big- 
town,  bit  shot  racketeers.  They  try,  and  the  mechanics  of 
various  gyp-games,  polite  and  otherwise,  are  laid  bare  for 
you. 

Jimmy  Cagney  and  Joan  Blondell  are  really  great  in  the 
roles.  Here's  a  new  kind  of  cinema  team.  They're  destined 
to  go  far — teamed,  or  singly.  Cagney  is  a  great  laugh-getter 
and  Miss  Blondell  shows  she  can  do  a  serious  role. 


ft 


THE  GUARDSMAN—  M-G-M 


ONE  of  the  most  delightful  pieces  of  satire  yet  brought 
to  the  talking  screen.  It's  filled  with  chuckles  for  those 
who  enjoy  sophisticated  comedy.  An  actor  who  feared  that 
his  wife,  with  a  penchant  for  soldiers,  was  untrue  to  him  set 
himself  the  difficult  task  of  impersonating  a  guardsman  in 
order  to  see  for  himself  if  anyone  could  consummate  a  flirta- 
tion with  her. 

Alfred  Lunt,  as  the  actor  who  never  forgets  to  act,  who 
quotes  lines  from  plays  to  suit  his  moods,  and  Lynn  Font- 
anne, as  the  doubted  wife,  are  a  constant  delight  and  offer 
abundant  proof  as  to  why  they  are  referred  to  as  the  fore- 
most acting  couple  of  the  present-day  stage.  Roland  Young 
and  ZaSu  Pitts  give  their  customary  excellent  performances. 
Not  for  children. 


49 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List! 


THE  GAY 
DIPLOMAT— 
Radio  Pictures 


SIDEWALKS 

OF 

NEW  YORK— 

M-G-M 


IVAN  LEBEDEFF,  favorite  with  Hollywood  women,  pursues 
women  in  this  picture  in  an  easy,  attractive  manner.  He  is 
responsible  for  the  story  and  it  presumably  records  some  of 
his  own  experiences.  Men  will  like  the  plot,  which  concerns 
Balkan  intrigue,  and  women  will  be  charmed  by  that  Lebedeff 
manner.  Betty  Compson  and  Genevieve  Tobin  give  him  fine 
support. 


A  LAUGH  a  moment  and  just  the  right  number  of  mo- 
ments! Buster  Keaton  is  a  wealthy  man-about-town  who 
goes  to  the  tenements  he  owns  to  show  his  manager  how  to 
handle  tough  youngsters.  It's  Buster  who  gets  handled!  Not 
much  of  a  plot,  but  not  much  is  needed.  Norman  Phillips,  Jr., 
kid  actor  of  ability,  almost  steals  the  show.  Anita  Page  and 
Cliff  Edwards  do  good  work. 


wicked- 
Fox 


THE  ROAD 
TO 

SINGAPORE 
— Warners 


HEAVY  dramatic  fare  about  a  bank  robber  and  his  wife, 
who  go  to  jail.  She's  allowed  out,  temporarily,  so  her  baby 
may  be  born  outside  prison  walls — but  then  she  goes  back. 
When  her  term  is  ended,  she  has  a  tough  time  getting  baby 
back,  because  it's  been  adopted.  But  she  does,  and  sails  for 
Australia  with  her  lover.  And  that's  it.  Elissa  Landi,  McLag- 
len,  Von  Eltz  are  good,  and  the  direction  is  excellent. 


BILL  POWELL  makes  his  Warner  debut  in  a  tropical  drama 
of  tangled  loves  and  desires.  There's  a  great  deal  of  talk  in 
the  story  of  the  wife  of  a  dull  doctor,  who  seeks  love  from  the 
notorious  devil  Powell  is  supposed  to  be.  But  Powell  goes 
heroic  and  before  it's  all  over  their  illicit  affair  goes  respectable, 
with  the  doctor  stepping  out  of  the  picture.  Doris  Kenyon,  as 
the  wife,  is  splendid. 


SILENCE— 
Paramount 


skyline- 
Fox 


"  OILENCE"  comes  out  of  the  silents  into  a  talkie  re-make — 
Oand  it's  still  sure-fire  melodrama  with  a  punch.  The  story 
of  the  crook  who  dares  the  gallows  rather  than  sully  the  name 
of  his  daughter  is  a  situation  that  cannot  help  but  offer  chances 
for  thrill  entertainment.  In  this,  Clive  Brook,  Marjorie  Ram- 
beau,  Peggy  Shannon  and  others  make  the  most  of  it.  Shan- 
non, a  new  "It"  girl,  is  interesting,  but  no  Bow. 

50 


GOOD  entertainment.  Thomas  Meighan,  representative  of 
this  age  of  steel  and  magnitude,  builds  skyscrapers.  He 
becomes  interested  in  one  of  his  youthful  laborers,  played  by 
Hardie  Albright,  and  saves  him  from  the  wily  clutches  of  vamp 
Myrna  Loy.  The  lad  returns  to  sweet  Maureen  O'Sullivan. 
The  entire  cast  is  good.  There's  a  sad  but  different  ending  to 
this  picture. 


The   First   and    Best   Talkie    Reviews! 


FANNY 
FOLEY 
HERSELF— 
Radio  Pictures 


THE  UNHOLY 
GARDEN 
United  Artists 


HERE'S  Edna  May  Oliver's  first  starring  film,  and  you're 
sure  of  a  row  of  laughs.  But — don't  be  surprised,  now! — 
you'll  come  mighty  close,  too,  to  shedding  a  tear.  It's  about  a 
vaudeville  player's  fight  for  her  daughters  against  her  rich 
papa-in-law.  A  nice,  homely,  laugh-and-cry  story.  We're 
certain  that  you  are  going  to  like  it.  The  whole  thing  is  in 
Technicolor. 


HERE'S  a  new  kind  of  gang  picture — a  gang  of  interna- 
tional crooks,  hiding  from  justice  in  a  half-ruined  Sahara 
castle,  cutting  each  others'  throats  over  a  hidden  fortune. 
Ronald  Colman,  playing  a  fugitive  murderer,  finally  saves  the 
fortune  for  a  beautiful  young  girl.  It's  all  far-fetched  and  romantic 
beyond  wildest  dreams.  A  splendid  cast  works  hard,  but  the 
picture  never  reaches  great  heights. 


WEST  OF 

BROADWAY 

—M-G-M 


SMART 
WOMAN— 
Radio  Pictures 


JOHN  GILBERT'S  voice  is  quite  low — but  so  is  the  value 
of  this  picture,  as  far  as  Gilbert's  popularity-comeback  is 
concerned.  Too  bad  that  ill  luck  seems  to  dog  his  efforts.  This 
yarn  of  the  war  veteran  with  six  months  to  live,  and  how  he 
does  it,  is  just  another  of  those  things.  John  Gilbert  strives 
valiantly  to  make  it  all  come  alive,  but  good  as  his  efforts  are, 
it  just  doesn't  click.    Lois  Moran  plays  a  new  type  of  role. 


MARY  ASTOR  wins  her  erring  husband  (Robert  Ames) 
back  by  old  movie  tactics  but  in  such  charming  fashion 
that  this  almost  rates  as  one  of  the  month*s  best.  Sophisticated 
comi-tragedy,  of  the  "Holiday"  and  "Rebound"  genre,  it 
makes  a  star  of  talent  of  Mary  Astor  and  reveals  Edward 
Everett  Horton  in  his  best  funny  role.  Beautiful  gowns  and  ex- 
cellent photography  are  a  treat  to  the  eye. 


MONKEY 

BUSINESS— 

Paramount 


THE  SPIDER 
— Fox 


MESSRS.  Marx,  Marx,  Marx  &  Marx  in  another  outbreak 
of  assorted  lunacy.  It  has  no  beginning  and  no  end,  as 
far  as  any  real  plot  is  concerned — but  if  you're  of  that  group 
who  like  gorgeous  nonsense,  then  by  all  means  split  your  sides 
over  the  latest  Marxian  antics  as  herein  manifested.  Groucho's 
absurdities  rattle  off  his  tongue;  Harpo  is  silent  but  mad;  the 
other  two  are  Marxes,  too. 


H 


ERE'S  a  shivery-thrilling  mystery  yarn  about  a  murder 
in  a  theater  while  a  magician  is  staging  a  mind-reading 
act.  The  suspense  is  kept  at  high  pitch.  Eddie  Lowe  does 
grand  work  as  the  prestidigitator.  The  photography  is  par- 
ticularly effective.  You  may  not  sleep  well  after  this,  but  there 
are  too  many  pictures  that  put  you  to  sleep! 

[  ADDITIONAL  REVIEWS  ON  PAGE  104  ] 

51 


Calling 


IT  was  raining  the  morning  Segne  Cleve  read  Sam  Alwein's 
letter,  as  she  lolled  in  her  negligee  in  the  luxuriously  fur- 
nished bedroom  of  her  secluded  Beverly  Hills  home. 
Mr.  Alwein,  president  and  general  manager  of  Mammoth 
Films,  was  vaguely  anxious  about  the  threat  of  Lili  Hajos,  the 
new  Hungarian  star,  to  Segne  Cleve's  prestige  as  the  screen's 
greatest  emotional  actress.  He  was  pleased,  however,  to  be 
able  to  inform  Miss  Cleve  that  Mammoth  had  secured  "Lovers 
and  Sons,"  the  year's  best  seller,  as  a  vehicle  for  her.  It  was 
now  being  adapted,  and  Mr.  John  Broadwell  would  direct 
her,  as  usual. 

She  was  not  at  all  impressed,  scarcely  interested.  She 
tossed  the  letter  aside.  Then  a  faint  curiosity  stirred  in 
her  about  the  Hajos  woman.  She  had  been  "discovered"  in 
Vienna  by  Adolph  Schnitzler,  the  Austrian  director,  and  had 
done  two  pictures  under  him  there.  These,  shown  in  this 
country,  had  won  her  a  contract  with  Mutual  and  she  had 
done  one  picture  since  her  arrival  in  Hollywood. 

She  was  twenty,  four  years  younger  than  Segne.  But  what 
stirred  Segne's  interest  was  the  fact  that  Lili  Hajos  was  said 
to  resemble  her,  not  only  artistically,  but  physically. 


STAR 


By  Charles  J.  McGuirk 


Illustrated  by  Frank  Godwin 


Segne  Cleve  had  long  had  a  faint  desire  to  see  if  this  was  so, 
and  now  she  turned  the  pages  of  a  magazine  quickly  to  a 
picture  of  the  girl.  She  might,  she  immediately  admitted, 
be  looking  at  a  very  inaccurate  picture  of  herself. 


Before  the  startled  eyes  of 
the  director,  Segne  Cleve  and 
Robert  Yore  played  that  scene 
so  amateurishly  and 
grotesquely  that  it  looked  and 
sounded  like  a  cruel  burlesque 


Miss  Hajos  was  a  tall,  blonde  girl 
with  light  eyes — Segne  had  heard  they 
were  blue — set  far  apart  beneath  a 
forehead  broad  and  low.  Her  mouth 
was  full-lipped,  her  well-modeled  head 
set  on  a  slim  neck.  Her  figure,  though 
slender,  was  voluptuous  —  full 
breasted,  slim  of  waist,  broad  of  thighs. 
Her  legs,  exposed  above  the  knees  by 
her  pose,  were  slender  and  straight. 

Yes,  Segne  thought,  she  is  curiously 
like  me.    Yet,  no  one  could  mistake  her  for  me  or  me  for  her. 
She  turned  to  search  out  that  difference  in  the  full-length 
mirror,   throwing  back  her  negligee  so   that  her  figure  was 
clearly  silhouetted  under  her  sheer  nightgown. 

IT  might  have  been  the  girl's  in  the  picture.  But,  she  saw,  it 
was  firmer,  longer,  settling  away  from  the  mold.  She  would 
not  have  to  cut  down  her  hearty  eating  habits  to  keep  it. 
The  Hungarian,  at  any  time,  would  have  to  watch  her  diet, 
to  fight  fat. 

Looking  at  her  own  lips,  the  difference  became  more  ap- 
parent. Her  mouth,  like  Lili's,  was  petulant,  the  lips  full. 
But  her  own  lips  could  thin  to  a  pencil  line  of  ruthlessness. 
Lili  Hajos'  were  generous,  too  generous  for  her  own  good. 

But  it  was  the  eyes  that  finally  decided  their  total  dissimilarity. 
The  eyes  of  the  other  girl  smouldered.  In  them  were  passion 
and  hot  response  to  life.  Her  own  eyes,  staring  coldly  in- 
terested at  themselves  in  the  mirror,  glinted.  In  them  were 
aloofness  and  an  icy  calculation. 

She  dropped  the  magazine  from  her  hand  to  the  floor. 
Her  faint  curiosity  about  her  rival  had  already  faded  to 
join  the  embers  of  her  interest  in  everything  else  except 
her  appetite  and  her  bank  balance  and  her  various  property 
holdings.     They  were  the  only  things  that  mattered. 

This  young  fool,  Hajos,  didn't  know  that  yet.  You  could 
see  she  was  one  of  the  kind  that  would  let  life  and  love  play 


A  story  of  Hollywood's 
most  mysterious  and 
enigmatic  actress,  who 
learned  the  ways  of 
this  thing  called  Love 


upon  her  till  they  burned  her  out. 
She,  Segne  Cleve,  knew  how  it 
would  be,  because  she  knew  how 
it  had  been  with  herself. 

What  she  knew  now  made  her 
the  screen's  greatest  emotional  ac- 
tress. It  was  all  so  simple,  she 
could  sum  it  up  in  a  sentence.  In 
order  to  be  able  to  portray  all  the 
emotions,  one  must  be  incapable  of 
feeling  any  emotion  —  especially 
love.  As  simple  as  that  when  it 
was  learned.  But,  oh,  what  a  price 
she  had  paid  to  learn  it! 

Suddenly  she  found  herself  think- 
ing of  Padraic  Westbrook,  the  only  thing  she  had  ever  loved 
or  ever  would  love.  It  was  he  who  had  taught  her  that  in 
order  to  be  able  to  portray  all  the  emotions,  one  must  be 
incapable  of  feeling  any  emotion.  Made  her  the  great  emotional 
actress  she  was.  How  she  hated  him!  And  loved  him!  For 
he  had  given  her  everything  only  when  he  had  taken  away 
from  her  everything  she  had  to  enjoy  it  with.  Even  himself. 
She  had  never  known  anyone  like  Padraic  Westbrook. 
She  never  would.  "It  doesn't  matter  what  happens  to  you  or 
me  as  long  as  we  get  the  message  of  beauty  across,"  he  had 
said  to  her  many  times.    It  summed  up  his  personality. 

HE  was  the  director  who  had  hired  her  for  "walk-ons"  and 
small  bits  in  a  midwest  city's  stock  company,  and  she  had 
been  in  love  with  him  a  long  time  before  he  noticed  her. 
And,  even  then,  he  saw  her  only  as  a  potential  artist. 

"I  believe,"  he  said  to  her  one  day,  "that  I  can  make  a 
great  actress  of  you.  If  you  don't  get  a  swelled  head.  Or 
fall  in  love  with  some  silly  boy.  You're  pretty.  You  respond 
well  to  direction.  You  work  hard.  You  don't  know  anything 
and  you  know  you  don't.  That  attitude  and  your  looks  will 
bring  you  to  the  top,  I  think.     Anyhow,  I'm  going  to  try  it." 

She  thanked  him,  smiling  uncertainly  into  his  hard  brown 
eyes.  She  had  thought  to  herself,  "What  a  fool  the  man  is! 
How  can  I  fall  in  love  with  anyone  when  I  am  already  in  love 
with  him?" 

53 


She  was  in  love  with  him  and  he  took  everything  away  from 
her.  He  took  away  her  belief  in  her  own  beauty  and  attrac- 
tiveness by  ignoring  them  when  they  were  turned  full  on  him. 
He  took  away  her  belief  in  her  ability  by  telling  her  ten 
thousand  times  a  day  that  she  couldn't  act  and  never  would 
be  able  to  act.  And  even  if  she  did,  it  wouldn't  mean  any- 
thing. 

"An  actor,"  he  would  snarl,  "is  nothing  but  a  sounding 
board,  a  monkey-on-a-stick,  going  through  the  sounds  and 
motions  of  a  thought  some  person  with  brains  has  had. 
Don't  try  to  think.  Wait  till  I  pull  the  string  and  then  dance 
the  way  I  tell  you  to.  That's  all  an  actor  or  actress  is  good 
for." 

But  he  made  her  into  an  actress.  For  the  emotions  he  took 
from  her,  he  substituted  their  mechanics.  Even  when  Sam 
Alwein  of  Mammoth  Films  signed  up  Padraic  Westbrook  on 
a  three-year  contract,  she  was  far  above  ordinary.  Within 
six  months,  she  followed  him  to  Hollywood. 

Under  his  direction,  she  had  strolled  to  stardom  in  her  first 
picture.  And  Padraic  Westbrook,  in  that  picture,  gave  to 
the  movies  not  only  a  star  but  a  new  director,  John  Broadwell, 
who  was  his  assistant.  Broadwell,  now,  was  recognized  as 
one  of  the  best.  He  had  directed  her  in  all  of  her  pictures 
after  the  first  four.  She  knew  his  greatness  lay  in  the  fact 
that  he  slavishly  followed  Padraic  Westbrook's  methods. 

Padraic  had  been  dead  three  years.  His  frail  body  could 
not  stand  the  deadly  combination  of  overwork  and  dissipation. 
When  he  lay  dying  in  the  hospital,  he  sent  for  her. 

"Segne,"  he  grinned  as  she  held  his  hand.  "I'm  checking 
out.  I  wanted  to  tell  you  before  I  go  that  I  know  you  love  me. 
And  I  love  you.    I  have  always  loved  you." 

"Oh,  why  didn't  you  tell  me?"  she  moaned. 

And  then,  for  the  last  time,  he  voiced  his  creed. 

"It  doesn't  make  any  difference  what  happens  to  you  or 
me  as  long  as  we  get  the  message  of  beauty  across!  I've  made 
a  great  actress  out  of  you!" 

SEGNE  emerged  from  her  reverie  as  her  maid,  a  grim- 
faced,  emotionless  Swede  of  middle  age,  came  in  with  her 
breakfast.  While  she  arranged  it  on  the  table,  Segne  Cleve 
went  to  the  window  and  stared  out  at  the  rain.     It  was  no 


ordinary  storm  of  gusty  fitfulness.  It  was  a  deluge,  an  in- 
frequent, fierce  seasonal  rainfall  of  the  semi-tropics.  Water 
poured  down  from  gray-black  clouds  in  sheets. 

A  faint  glow  began  to  smoulder  in  her  eyes.  She  loved  rain 
almost  as  much  as  she  loved  solitude  and  the  sea.  She  loved 
to  walk  in  it.  She  enjoyed  its  beat  upon  her  face,  its  soaking 
and  weighing  down  of  her  garments,  its  cold,  stinging  caress 
of  her  body.  Like  the  parched  soil,  she  drank  it  in  through 
every  pore. 


"T  TILDA."  she  ordered  in  her  low,  soft  voice,  "I  want  my 
X^Lwalking  skirt,  a  light  sweater  and  the  heavy  brogues. 
And  the  old  felt  hat." 

Segne  Cleve  in  Hollywood,  perforce,  traveled  much  in- 
cognito and  in  disguise  to  keep  from  being  mobbed  by  en- 
thusiastic fans.  On  her  infrequent  shopping  trips  she  wore  a 
uniform  consisting  of  an  old  tweed  suit,  heavy  walking  shoes, 
wool  stockings,  a  nondescript  blue  beret  and  a  pair  of  tortoise- 
shell  glasses. 

She  was  aloof.  She  did  not  entertain.  She  attended  few 
parties  and  fewer  formal  picture  openings,  the  latter  in  dis- 
guise. She  spent  her  leisure  time  reading,  swimming,  walking, 
riding  or  sitting  on  the  beach,  staring  for  hours  at  the  rhythmic 
sea. 

She  had  few  friends.  No  confidants.  When,  in  refusing  a 
reporter  an  interview,  she  once  said,  "I  am  neither  interesting 
nor  interested,"  she  was  entirely  sincere.  Nothing  human  in- 
terested her.  She  was  a  harp  lying  mute,  whose  strings  only 
one  man  could  bring  alive.  And  that  man  was  a  dead  man 
whose  fingers  would  pluck  no  more. 

This  was  Segne  Cleve  in  person.  Aloof.  Sullen.  Mysterious. 
The  heroine  of  a  thousand  legends.  And  Segne  Cleve,  the 
great  screen  siren,  was  much  the  same. 

Her  conscious  attention  was  centered  on  the  mastery  of 
her  lines  and  their  delivery,  and  the  minute  and  graphic  in- 
structions of  John  Broadwell,  her  director.  She  made  no  sug- 
gestions.    Hers  was  not  an  original  mind. 

The  cast  playing  with  her  in  "Lovers  and  Sons"  were  not 
personalities  to  her.  They  were  animated  manequins  that 
danced  when  John  Broadwell  pulled  the  strings.  She  had 
been  playing  three  weeks  opposite  [please  turn  to  page  123  ] 


Schoenbaum 


Pola  Negri,  1931  Model — no  temperament,  no  swank,  no  carrying  on.  Some  change  from  the  Warsaw 
Rose  of  five  years  ago,  who  clawed  and  snarled  at  life.  Today,  in  Hollywood,  she's  leading  a  quiet  life. 
No  mansion — just  renting  the  smaller  of  Bebe  Daniels'  Santa  Monica  beach  homes.  Hard  at  work  on 
her  RKO  Pathe  film,  "A  Woman  Commands,"  her  first  talkie.    Some  girl!    We'll  take  a  little  bet  that 

Pola  is  in  for  a  grand  comeback! 


5J> 


\ 


He  I 

Her 

M 


s 


an. 


/ 


Barbara  Stanwyck, 
an  old-fashioned 
one-man  woman, 
would  sacrifice 
a  brilliant  career 
for  Frank  Fay 


When  Barbara  Stanwyck  is  sittin'  on  top  of  her  Frankie, 

it's  just  the  same  as  sittin'  on  top  of  the  world — for  Frank 

Fay  is  Barbara  Stanwyck's  world — her  whole  world — and 

Hollywood  can  go  chase  itself! 


THERE   are  all  sorts  of  love   in   hectic   Hollywood — 
Malibu   Madnesses,   Publicity   Pashes,    Good   Clean 
companionships,   affairs  usually   labeled   "just   one   of 
those  things" — 

And  then  there's  the  love  of  Barbara  Stanwyck  for  Frank 
Fay!     Boy,  that  one  has  the  movie  colony  winging! 

It's  so  true  it  can't  be  real,  and  vice  versa.  It's  so  complete, 
so  sacrificing,  so  self-effacing,  and  so  dad-burned  startling  in 
this  day  of  sneering  sophistication  that  half  of  Hollywood 
cheers,  half  snorts  and  half  just  doesn't  believe  a  word  of  it. 

As  this  is  tapped,  Barbara  has  jumped  the  Columbia  corral 
and  is  galloping  loose,  while  the  bosses  moan  and  howl.  Fay, 
washed  up  at  the  Warner  plant,  wants  to  go  home  to  his  beloved 
Broadway.  And  the  lovely  Stanwyck  lassie,  with  uncounted 
thousands  hers  for  the  mere  reaching,  will  kick  over  contracts, 
careers  and  kopecks  to  be  at  the  side  of  her  man! 

It's  right  out  of  the  story  book. 

There's  white-hot  drama  in  this  love  story — yes,  and  even 
spiritual  tragedy,  if  you  read  behind  the  lines. 

There's  only  one  love  like  it  in  Hollywood,  and  that's  the  love 
of  Ann  Harding  for  Harry  Bannister,  her  big  actor-husband. 

Ann  has  never  been  put  to  the  biggest  test,  however — the 
yearning  of  the  loved  one  to  Get  Away  From  It  All. 

Barbara  has.    And  she's  met  it  without  a  jitter. 

From  the  day  Babs  laid  an  eye  on  Fay,  and  felt  that  first 
internal     tremor    that     signifies     the    deadly     assault     of 
the  tender  passion,  there's  never  been 
another  man  but  the  red-headed  vaude-  ~D 


ville  actor. 


y   C 


a 


She  was  Ruby  Stevens,  then — the  prettiest,  sweetest  little 
tap-dancer  that  ever  titivated  the  bald-headed  patrons  of  Texas 
Guinan's  deadfall. 

And  Fay — oh,  he  was  a  big  shot!  "Broadway's  Favorite 
Son,"  the  electric  lights  called  him.  Hadn't  he  ambled  and 
drawled  around  the  stage  of  the  Palace  Theater,  vaudeville's 
heaven,  for  ten  or  a  dozen  weeks  on  end?  Yes,  indeedy — and  it 
was  "Hi'  there,  Frankie!"  and  "Hello,  Mr.  Fay!''  from  every 
corner  on  Broadway. 

BARBARA  turned,  overnight,  from  Stevens  to  Stanwyck  and 
was  a  sensational  success  opposite  Hal  Skellv  in  the  play 
"Burlesque."  But  that  made  no  difference.  To  her,  Fay  was 
still  the  king  of  hearts,  and  she  wasn't  even  a  face-card. 

It  was  terrible,  somehow,  and  beautiful,  and  goshawful. 

I  used  to  see  them  together,  in  the  earlier  days  of  The  Big 
Love  Stuff — lunching  together  sometimes  at  Sardi's,  noonday 
rilling  station  for  a  large  segment  of  the  Broadway  mob. 

Fay  taking  bows.  Fay  saying  howdy.  Fay  holding  small-time 
court  in  a  little  world  of  not-quite-greats.  Barbara  looking  at 
him  with  her  heart  in  those  blue  eyes — and  she  might  have  been 
eating  curried-sawdust-on-shingle  instead  of  chicken  a  la  king 
for  all  she  knew,  or  gave  a  darn. 

Honestly,  it  used  to  give  me  the  quakes,  even  then.  Xow  I'm 
afraid  it's  the  horrors. 

Because  it's  that  love  that  may  rob  pictures — and  us — of  one 
of    the    freshest    young    talents    and 

/~V    n     v     h         beautiful  young  persons  to  come  our 
I        0       I         K.  [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  115] 

55 


Lily's  Coming  Back 


Will  this  be  the  Lily  Damita  of  1931  in  Hollywood— hot, 
hoydenish,  hectic  and  starry-eyed?    Fate  alone  knows! 


Or  will  the  new  Damita  be  cool,  calm,  contained  and 
bursting  with  pent-up  drama,  as  she  looks  in  this  picture? 


WHAT  personality  will  Lily 
Damita  wear  when  she  re- 
turns to  Hollywood  this 
time? 

We  are  all  gambling  on  the  answer 
as  this  is  written,  a  month  before  her 
return  date.  Of  course,  the  Radio 
Pictures  officials  would  pay  most  for 
the  correct  answer.  She's  under  con- 
tract to  them  and  they  must  choose 
her  next  picture. 

Dare  they  choose  before  she  puts 
in  her  appearance  ?  Will  it  be  safe  to 
pick  a  story  for  the  Lily  who  left  or 
shall  they  wait  and  fit  the  story  to  the  one  who  returns  ? 

For  Hollywood  has  already  had  two  Lilys — women  as  dif- 
ferent as  the  1928  and  1931  stock  markets.  Will  there  be  a 
third,  or  if  not  a  third  which  one  of  the  two  former  women  will 
return  to  us? 

I  always  smile  when  I  think  of  the  last  return  of  Lily  Damita! 
It  was  on  Labor  Day,  1930.  Incidentally,  her  return  is  now 
stated  for  Labor  Day,  1931!  Coincidence?  Perhaps.  But 
I  doubt  it.  Labor  Day  last  year  proved  a  good  stage  setting; 
why  not  use  the  same  day  for  another? 

The  United  Artists  lot  was  so  excited.  Their  French  whirl- 
wind was  returning.  Now,  the  lot  would  pep  up.  Now  there 
would  be  color,  excitement,  sex-appeal  vaunted  to  its  zenith! 

The  publicity  department  was  in  seventh  heaven.  They  had 
been  forced  to  be  so  careful  of  what  they  said  of  Mary  Pickford, 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Norma  Talmadge,  Gloria  Swanson — 
even  Charles  Chaplin.  These  veteran  blue-bloods  of  the  busi- 
ness must  always  be  handled  with  the  smoothest  kid  gloves; 
nothing  must  seep  into  ink  which  is  not  homage  to  royalty — 
censored  as  are  the  stories  written  of  royalty  in  all  nations. 

But  Lily!  The  publicity  department  rubbed  its  hands  in 
glee.  It  looked  at  the  big  red  heart  on  its  white  calcimined  wall 
and  put  new  ribbons  in  the  typewriters.  Lily  had  drawn  that 
heart.  With  her  own  pouting,  sensuous 
lips  she  had  outlined  it!  There  had 
been  so  much  red  paint  on  those  lips 

56 


And  what  will  La 
Belle  Damita  have  to 
offer  this  time — dig- 
nity or  dynamite? 
Hollywood  is  all 
agog  to  know! 


By   Ruth   Biery 


that  no  red  pencil  had  been  needed. 
True,  she  had  scratched  her  nose  a 
bit  as  she  mouthed  the  rough  plaster 
but  what  was  a  scratched  nose  when 
Lily  was  telling  an  entire  department 
of  men  that  she  loved  them  in  her  own 
inimitable  fashion? 

Ah,  to  have  her  back!  To  be  able 
to  write  stories  comparable  to  those 
they  had  written  about  Prince  Louis 
Ferdinand,  the  second  son  of  the  for- 
mer Crown  Prince  of  Germany,  work- 
ing in  a  Ford  factory  that  he  might  be 
near  his  Lily!  To  have  Prince  George 
as  part  of  their  regular  press-agent  copy! 

They  got  out  their  files,  those  press  boys.  Not  because  they 
needed  to  read  what  they  had  written.  They  remembered 
every  word.  They  got  them  out  so  they  could  brag  to  each  other. 
There  was  the  long  story  of  how  the  former  Kaiser  had 
secured  the  help  of  Henry  Ford  to  return  the  wandering 
Hohenzollern  to  him!  A  Hohenzollern  earning  money  by  labor 
for  the  sake  of  a  movie  girl. 

THERE  was  the  yarn  about  Prince  George  in  Santa  Barbara 
dancing  with  Lily  Damita.  They  chortled.  That  was  the 
time  the  big  boss — Samuel  Goldwyn — had  been  really  impressed! 
There  was  the  follow-up.  Prince  George  was  defying  the 
royal  orders  of  Papa-King-of-England  and  coming  to  Holly- 
wood. Papa  had  said  no.  He  was  afraid  of  the  effect  Holly- 
wood publicity  and — sh,  they  had  soft-pedaled  that  part  of 
the  story! — beautiful  Hollywood  girls  would  have  upon  him. 
But  papa  was  in  London  and  Lily  was  in  Hollywood.  Lily 
had  won.    The  Prince  was  arriving. 

The  boys  read  that  adroit  story  and  winked  at  one  another. 
Blue-blood  Douglas  Fairbanks  had  been  most  annoyed.  He 
was  entertaining  for  Prince  George  at  the  royal  court  of  Pick- 
fair.  Was  it  not  better  to  say  that  the  Prince  was  coming  to 
Hollywood  to  be  entertained  at  the 
local  court  than  to  say  he  was  coming 
[please  turn  to  page  101  ] 


Seymour  s    Fa 
Newsreel  of 
Fashions 


'M  going  to  take  the  role  of  the  news- 
reel  talking  reporter  this  month,  just 
to  give  you  the  current  events  in  fashion 
as  they  are  happening  at  the  moment.  I'll 
reel  off  the  news  for  you  but  you  will 
have  to  see  the  new  pictures  to  know  what 
I  mean.  To  help  you,  however,  I  have 
picked  some  of  the  latest  stills  for  you  here. 
The  idea  this  year  in  fashion  is  to  look 
as  elegant  and  romantic  as  possible.  You 
hark  back  to  those  fragile  ladies  of  the 
1880s  or  to  those  dashing  belles  of  the 
gay  '90s.  You  have  that  same  broad- 
shouldered,  taper-waisted  look,  except 
that  clothes  are  suited  to  modern  times. 
You  wear  an  Empress  Eugenie  hat  tilted 
coyly,  but  with  dash.  You  actually  dress 
up.  You  put  swagger  boyishness  aside 
for  an  almost  demure,  lady-like  manner. 


HERE  is  Nancy  Carroll  dressed  up  for  a 
brisk  Fall  day.  She  wears  a  short  black 
caracul  jacket  over  a  trim  but  feminine  gray 
woolen  dress.  Note  the  three-quarter 
sleeves  and  collarless  neckline  on  the 
jacket.  The  dress  is  coat-like  in  style  as  it 
buttons  to  the  side  and  is  carefully  tailored. 
The  high-necked  vestee  is  very  smart.  Long 
black  suede  gloves  and  a  suede  bag  in  the 
new  style  with  concealed  frame  are  perfect 
accessories. 


Screen    Clothes    Have   th 


|  ORETTA  YOUNG  wears 
I—  one  of  the  new  hats  jaunt- 
ily. It's  a  sailor  type  with 
shallow  crown  and  brim  rolled 
into  a  dip  over  the  right  eye. 


WHEN  you  see  "Sporting  Blood/'  I  want 
you  to  notice  this  costume  of  Madge  Evans. 
Its  most  important  detail  is  the  sleeves.  Made 
in  dolman  effect,  they  taper  from  a  wide  arm- 
hole  to  a  narrow  wrist. 

DON'T  miss  a  detail  of  this  Dolores  Costello 
costume  in  "Expensive  Women."  The 
"ligh  points  are — a  black  and  white  lace  tweed 
abric  contrasted  with  black  wool  crepe, 
three-quarter  sleeves  and  a  trick  white  bolero 
in  ermine. 


New     Dressed-Up     Look 


yOU  must  pay  a  lot  of  attention  to  little  things  this  Fall. 
I  think  Tallulah  Bankhead  is  the  picture  of  a  perfectly 
groomed  lady  in  this  costume  from  'My  Sin."  Her  hair  is 
sleekly,  but  softly  dressed.  She  wears  simple  but  elegant 
jewelry  in  her  pearl  earrings  and  pearl  and  diamond  pin. 
She  tops  her  chic  white  satin  frock  with  a  silver  fox  trimmed 
metal  cloth  jacket. 


pHP- 

1    v  S 

W     **  *  jA 

A 

JHtf 

w 

WW 

■9 

^>v\v 

PEARLS  are  smart  in  this  new  length.     Adrienne 
Ames  wears  them  in  "24  Hours." 
Did    you    know   that   slipper   length    is    new    for 
evening   frocks?     And   that  dresses  are   not  so  full 
and  much  straighter?     Let  Loretta  Young  show  you 
her  new  velvet  frock  and  you  can  see  for  yourself. 


Here's   How   the   Stars  Wear 


*4i^JL 

Jm^A  1 

H       ■ 

f*^           --tS    ■                 ;'^L               1 

*^^3bfc 

I  DON'T  think  there  is  a  star's  wardrobe  which  does 
I  not  boast  at  least  one  stunning  fur  wrap,  especially 
for  evening.  Marion  Shilling,  for  instance,  favors  a 
beige  ermine  wrap  lavishly  trimmed  with  beige  fox  for 
her  newest  formal  one.  The  three-quarter  length  is  very 
smart  and  new.  Note  the  softly  tied,  cravat-like 
collar  and  the  shorter  sleeves.  You  girls  could 
duplicate  this  in  the  more  inexpensive  lapin — it  would 
be  just  as  good  looking,  if  not  so  luxurious!  Marion  s 
gloves  are  the  color  of  the  fur  which  is  a  very  nice  idea. 


N-BETWEEN  furs  are  mighty  useful  in  anyone's 
wardrobe.  The  fur  scarf  is  always  good.  Lilyan 
Tashman  wore  her  beautiful  sables  in  this  unusual 
manner  in  "Murder  by  the  Clock."  Remember  them? 
Triple  skins  of  sable  wrapped  around  the  neck  and 
shoulders.  Sable  edged  the  sleeves  of  her  gown, 
too.     Very  grand  altogether. 

Loretta  Young  wears  a  youthful  jacket  that  any  of 
you  could  copy.  It  is  gray  squirrel  trimmed  with 
white  ermine  on  wide  lapels,  sleeves  and  pockets. 


Their    New    Furs 


/ 


SHADES  of  our  grandmothers!  How  do  you  like 
this  little  white  ermine  tippet?  I  think  it's  great, 
takes  you  right  back  to  the  furbelow  days.  Alice 
McCormack  wears  this  over  a  quaint  black  taffeta, 
bustled  frock  in  the  fashion  show  sequence  of 
"Bad  Girl. "• 

And  here  is  Loretta  Young  again  in  a  smart  fitted 
jacket  of  white  broadtail.  The  trimming  on  the  revers 
is  old-fashioned  gray  moleskin.  This  jacket  is  nipped 
in  at  the  back  and  gives  a  cutaway  effect  in  front. 


THERE  never  will  be  any  wrap  that  can  displace  the 
all-white  ermine  one  for  sheer  feminine  elegance. 
Look  at  Sally  Blane  in  this  stunning  coat  she  wears 
in  "The  Star  Witness."  It  is  complete  luxury  per- 
sonified. The  length  is  good  for  very  formal  cos- 
tumes. The  high,  rolling  collar,  the  wrapped  effect, 
and  the  wide-armholed,  deeply  pointed  sleeves  are 
other  style  points.  Again  this  is  the  sort  of  wrap  you 
could  duplicate  in  white  hare  and  look  very  swank  at 
a    fraction    the    cost    of  ermine. 


When   Loretta 
Goes  Shopping 


SEYMOUR  SNAPS 
A  YOUNG  STAR 
ABOUT    TOWN 


F  you  should  happen  along  Holly- 
wood Boulevard  some  morning  it's 
more  than  likely  you  might  see  Loretta 
dashing  along  like  this.  Her  trim  polo 
coat  is  a  brown  and  beige  checked 
tweed.     The  hat  and  scarf  are  right! 


N  the  afternoon,  you  might  find 
Miss  Young  lingering  over  a  win- 
dow on  her  way  to  tea.  Her  frock  is 
black  silk  crepe  trimmed  in  white 
galyac.  New  in  line  and  smartly 
accessoried.  Your  hat  should  tilt, 
Loretta. 


Hal  I'liyfe 


pJTAL  PHYFE,  famous  New  York  photographer,  coaxed  Janet 
Gaynor  and  Charlie  Farrell  before  a  lens  on  the  Fox  lot. 
"Give  me  that  7th  Heaven'  look!"  he  pleaded.  "Be  Diane  and 
Chico  for  Uncle  Hal!"  They  gave  all  and  isn't  the  result  a 
stunning  picture? 


QSr 


4 


rving  I.ippman 


H1 


IS  uncle  is  a  Knight  of  the  Bath — but  when  David  Manners  was 
"  a  cowboy  guide  he  took  his  on  Saturday  night  in  the  good  old 
Western  way.  Nor  is  the  Americanization  of  this  handsome  young 
Englishman  a  pose.  On  the  opposite  page  Harry  Lang,  in  a  brilliant 
word  picture,  tells  you  why. 


This  scene  from  "The 
Miracle  Woman" 
with  Barbara  Stan- 
wyck proves  that  not 
all  Englishmen  are 
cold-blooded.  David 
Manners  is  the  ag- 
gressive lad  and  the 
girls  say  they  like  him 
when  he  acts  this  way 


M 


Spurning  Holly- 
wood's snooty  British 
colony,  David  Man- 
ners is  just  a  regular 
fellow.  He  can  take 
his  art  or  leave  it 
alone,  although  he  is 
serious  about  his  act- 
ing and  hopes,  some 
day,  to  be  an  author 


anners 


em 


OLD  John  W.  Heredity  and 
Oscar  Q.  Tradition  must 
have  perfectly  ghastly 
headaches  over  the  case  of 
young  Mr.  David  Manners.  For 
young  Mr.  Manners  has  thumbed 
his  nose  at  them  right  rudely! 

You  see,  by  all  the  hoary  old  rules 
of  Tradition  and  Heredity,  young 
Mr.  Manners   should  be  an  up- 
nosed,  broad  -  A  -  ing,  family  -  tree- 
flaunting,  superciliously-ultra-Englishman.     For  he's  a  direct 
straight-line   descendant  of  William  the  Conqueror,  and  is  a 
cousin  and  nevvew  of  Earls  and  Dukes  and  things  like  that  all 
over  England. 

And  instead,  dash  it  all,  he's  turned  out  to  be  a  blooming 
American,  my  word! — and  a  cinema  performer,  at  that!  And 
a  good  one. 

I  say  now,  cawn't  you  just  see  old  William  the  Conqueror 
turning  over  in  his  grave  like  a  whirling  dervish  at  the  verv  idea 
of  it? 

"Very  well;  let  him,  then."  shoulder-shrugs  young  Mr. 
Manners,  his  descendant:  '"only  the  silly  ass  must  make  a 
frightful  clatter  turning  over  with  all  that  armor  on  him!" 

That's  what  Dave  Manners'  attitude  to- 
ward this  family-tree  thing  amounts  to. 
Born  of  the  ultramarinest  blue  blood  of 


A  descendant  of  Wil- 
liam the  Conqueror 
conquers  Hollywood — 
and  in  a  big  way,  too 


By  Harry  Lang 


England,  destined  to  carry  on  the 
family  name  and  line  in  the  best  old 
British  tradition,  Dave  instead  has 
turned  out  to  be  as  American  as  a 
quart  of  two-dollar  "imported"  gin. 
And  for  a  final  finger-flick  at  it 
all,  he  has  taken  out  his  first 
naturalization  papers.  He  frankly 
prefers  America  to  England. 

"I  like  the  spirit  of  America.    I 
like  its  democracy  and  its  great  dis- 
tances.   Besides,  I  make  my  living  here,  and  somehow,  I  think 
I  ought  to  belong  here.    It's  a  matter  of  conscience  as  well  as 
preference." 

Of  course,  you  filmgoers  know  David  Manners  as  the  very 
handsome  young  chap  who  has  been  appearing  in  Warner  Bros, 
pictures.  Or,  perhaps,  he  stands  out  particularly  in  the  splen- 
did role  he  did  opposite  Barbara  Stanwyck  in  "The  Miracle 
Woman" — the  blind  young  war  aviator — remember?  You'll 
see  him  again,  opposite  Marian  Marsh,  in  the  leading  male  role 
in  the  photoplay  to  be  filmed  as  the  result  of  the  Photoplay- 
Warner  Bros,  picture  story  contest. 

David  Manners'  rise  in  pictures  has  been  rapid,  since  his  first 
memorable  performance  as  Raleigh  in  "Journey's  End."    He's 
destined    for    the    top.    intelligent    screen 
observers  say.     And  that's  how  you  know 

him.  [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PACE   112  ] 

66 


By 

Michael 
Woodward 


Leslie  Howard  and 
Norma  Shearer  in 
"A  Free  Soul,"  in 
which  he  made  a 
minor  part  impor- 
tant by  the  sincerity 
of  his  playing 


A  N 


ervous 


w 


rec 


k/ 


HERE'S  a  secret— 
That  calm  suavity  for 
which  you  admire  Leslie 
Howard  is  just  a  "front." 
It's  part  of  his  splendid  stock-in- 
trade,  but  it's  100  per  cent  fake. 
Leslie  Howard  himself  is  as  nervous 
as  a  couple  of  hundred  Mexican 
jumping  beans. 

After  a  day's  work  on  the  set,  for 
instance,  he  has  to  go  home  and 
lock  himself  in.  He  doesn't  dare  go 
out  among  people,  he  confesses,  be- 
cause he's  afraid  he'd  make  a  fool  of  himself  by  suddenly  letting 
go,  shrieking  and  bashing  a  grand  piano  over  some  bore's  head. 

It  seems  that  ever  since  his  war  experience — he  went  through 
four  years  of  that  hell  as  an  English  soldier — he's  been  more  or 
less  jittery.  Because  of  the  type  of  stage  and  screen  character- 
izations he  has  done,  his  day's  work  consists  mainly  of  repres- 
sion of  his  naturally  nervous  temperament — repression, 
restraint,  repression,  restraint,  all  day  long.  So  by  the  time  the 
end  of  the  day's  work  arrives,  he's  just  all  bottled  up  inside,  and 
sometimes  feels  as  though  he'd  like  to  sort  of  explode  all  over 
the  surrounding  scenery. 

If  he  ever  did  let  go,  he  realizes,  people  would  think  he  was 
this  and  that  kind  of  nut.  So  he  just  goes  home  and  behaves. 
He's  got  a  nice  wife — and  as  she's  neither  stage  nor  screen,  they 
don't  talk  shop. 

Leslie  can't  understand  how  screen  stars  go  on  working  con- 
tinuously without  going  cuckoo.  His  own  contract  calls  for 
getting  away  from  pictures  at  least  once  a  year — to  do  a  stage 
play.  Picture-making  and  its  mechanics  harass  and  confuse 
and  bewilder  him. 

The  interminable  business  of  adjusting  lights,  setting 
cameras,  rehearsing,  and  the  innumerable  takes  and  retakes 
and  re-retakes  are  not  Leslie  Howard's  meat.    He  prefers  the 

66 


Don't  be  fooled  by  Leslie 
Howard's  famous  suav- 
ity— he's  really  as  jittery 
as  a  stampeded  herd  of 
jumping  beans 


stage — where  a  man  learns  his  part, 
then  goes  on  and  does  the  play  con- 
secutively from  one  end  to  the 
other.  Then,  at  the  end  of  the  per- 
formance, his  work  is  done  for  the 
day  and  he  can  forget  it  until,  next 
day,  he  starts  it  over  again. 

But  in  pictures — well,  the  hubbub 

and  the  illogical  lack  of  consecutive- 

ness  in  the  way  they  shoot  a  story, 

are  just  too  much  for  him.     He 

stood  four  straight  years  of  war,  but 

he's  quite  sure  he  couldn't  stand  a 

consecutive  year  of  picture-making  without  being  quite  mad  at 

the  end  of  it.    Right  now  he's  planning  to  appear  in  a  Broadway 

stage  play  during  the  winter. 

HOWARD'S  a  quite  unobtrusive  person  off-stage,  or  off- 
screen. You'd  probably  not  recognize  him  if  you  met  him 
"as  is."  For  one  thing,  he  wears  glasses — not  these  phony  dark 
glasses  so  many  stars  wear  because  they,  like  ostriches,  think  peo- 
ple won't  see  the  star  behind  the  specs.  Leslie  Howard's  glasses 
are  horn-rimmed  lenses,  and  he  wears  them  all  the  time  off -set. 

Too,  in  contrast  with  his  screen  characterizations,  he's  a  bit 
careless  about  his  clothes.  Anything  but  a  sartorial  fop.  And 
you're  as  like  as  not  to  find  him  puttering  around  somewhere 
with  a  camera,  taking  snapshots  or  amateur  movies.  He's  more 
of  a  camera  addict  than  a  Japanese  tourist  is,  and  does  his  own 
developing  and  printing.  He  likes  to  get  behind  his  home 
movie  projector  and  show  his  friends  films  he  took  of  his  home- 
land— England,  of  course. 

Offhand,  you'd  hardly  know  he  was  English.  He  has  no  more 
of  that  "Oxford  accent"  than  your  corner  grocer.  In  fact,  he 
has  much  less  of  it  than  most  American-born  stars  who  think  a 
broad-A  and  a  rising  inflection  constitute  good  English.  Which 
reminds  one  of  the  platinum  [please  turn  to  page   114] 


Sh 


e  s 


Not  A  Parrot 


That  silly  "parrot" 
story  makes  the 
red  hair  of  the 
German  screen 
sensation  redder 
than  ever,  and  is 
entirely  untrue 

By  Ruth  B  i ery 


MARLENE  DIETRICH  is  angry.  This 
charming,  cultured  womanofEuropeis  burned 
up  in  a  wholly  American,  plebeian  manner. 
She  is  on  the  verge  of  saying  "to  h —  with 
it  all"  (or  the  German  equivalent)  and  turning  her 
back  on  everything  over  here  but  making  pictures 
and  caring  for  her  baby. 

Hollywood  can  go  to;  society  can  choose  an  equally 
warm  place,  and  writers—  well,  there  isn't  a  place  hot 
enough  for  her  to  send  them. 

And  it  is  not  because  of  that  unfortunate  fuss  in  the 
newspapers  started  by  the  wife  of  Josef  Von  Stern- 
berg, the  director  who  has  guided  her  to  success  in 
American  pictures. 

That  matter  is  referred  to  in  Cal  York's  column  in 
this  issue  of  Photoplay. 

Hollywood's  sympathy,  the  friendly  attitude  of  the 
newspapers  and  the  generous  reaction  of  the  motion 
picture  public  all  over  the  country  give  her  sufficient 
assurance  on  that  score. 

No,  it's  all  because  she  has  been  misquoted;  de- 
plorably misquoted. 

That's  the  penalty  of  fame,  and  Marlene  hasn't  become  in- 
ured to  that  yet. 

For  example,  Ruth  Chatterton  was  kind  to  the  Paramount 
newcomer.  They  interchanged  daily  visits  at  the  studio;  be- 
came mutual  admirers.  Marlene  thought— so  did  Ruth — that 
they  were  two  who  might  be  screen  rivals  but  could  be  personal 
cronies. 

'While  Marlene  was  in  Germany  she  read  disgusting  things 
Ruth  was  supposed  to  have  said  about  her.  She  also  read  that 
Ruth  refused  to  speak  to  her  at  the  opening  of  "Morocco." 

"T  COULD  smile  at  that.  Nobody  spoke  to  me  but  Mr.  Zukor 
-L  and  Mitzi  Green.    They  said  it  was  a  good  picture." 

Fortunately,  neither  Ruth  nor  Marlene  believes  everything 
that  is  printed.  They  are  so  friendly  that  Ruth  went  to  a  writer 
and  begged  her  not  to  print  any  more  unkind  things  about 
Marlene!  But  word  has  circled  the  globe  that  they  are  mad- 
dog  about  one  another. 

On  the  way  back  to  Hollywood,  Marlene  was  asked  if  she 
would  like  to  make  a  picture  with  Ernst  Lubitsch.  She  said  she 
did  not  know  enough  to  leave  the  tutelage  of  her  master—  Josef 
Von  Sternberg.  The  story  was  printed  that  Miss  Dietrich  did 
not  wish  to  make  a  picture  with  Lubitsch  because  he  could  not 
speak  good  English. 

Marlene  sent  messages  galore  to  her  countryman,  explaining 
she  had  been  misquoted. 

He  understood;  but  she  could  not  send  messages  throughout 
the  world  to  insure  the  same  understanding. 


If  Marlene  Dietrich  looks  angry  in  this  picture,  it's  be- 
cause she's  mad  at  writers  who  misquote  and  malign  her 


And  the  day  after  her  return — with  the  fires  of  anger  already 
sizzling — she  picked  up  a  magazine  (not  Photoplay,  decidedly 
not  Photoplay)  and  read  she  was  a  "parrot."  Von  Sternberg 
put  words  into  her  mouth.  She  repeated  them.  "A  red-headed 
parrot,"  said  the  article. 

Whoops,  Agnes!  She's  red-headed  all  right,  but  she's  not  a 
parrot.  Although  a  parrot  might  have  used  equally  expressive 
language,  it  could  never  have  expressed  the  same  depth  of  feel- 
ing.   Never! 

The  next  interviewer  who  saw  Marlene,  walked  out.  "I 
walked  out  on  her"  he  said.  Don't  let  a  reporter's  pride  mis- 
lead you.  Marlene  staged  that  exit.  She  acted  so  dumb  she 
didn't  even  pull  a  parrot-line  on  him. 

And  the  next  scribbler  said,  "Well,  if  you  can  get  anything 
out  of  her — "  Clam  is  an  old  simile,  but  it  explains  perfectly 
the  silence  of  Dietrich. 

Enter:  this  writer.  I  thought  I  had  an  advantage;  I  already 
knew  Marlene.  But  I  didn't  know  this  Marlene.  When  Von 
Sternberg  came  in,  for  example,  she  said,  "  Your  parrot  will  now 
put  on  her  hat,"  and  did  a  fade-out,  leaving  the  director  to 
carry  on  the  battle. 

Friends  have  told  her  she  should  not  pay  so  much  attention 
to  misquotes.  "I  suppose  I  should  laugh!"  She  shrugged. 
"Then  what  is  the  use  of  giving  interviews  at  all — if  I  pay  them 
no  attention.    I  wish  I  could  do  my  work  and  say  nothing." 

But  that  means  she  is  copy-catting  Garbo.  And  she's  as 
anxious  to  live  that  down  as  she  is  to  be  quoted  correctly. 

It's  really  a  serious  problem  to  [  please  turn  to  page  113  ] 

67 


PORTRAIT  of  an  actor's  mind.  Here's  what 
■*■  Eddie  Lowe  thinks  about  as  he  reads  the  script 
of  "The  Spider,"  his  new  picture:  "Gee,  they've 
made  me  a  tough  guy  in  this  one.  I'm  supposed 
to  give  the  boys  and  girls  the  creeps  and  a  couple  of 


68 


Photo  by  Stagg 


thrills.  I'm  the  bozo  who  solves  the  murder  mystery 
by  feats  of  magic.  I'm  mean!  I'm  hard-boiled! 
Well,  I  get  paid  for  it  and  Lil  needs  shoes.  Won- 
der what  Lil  will  think  when  she  sees  me  in  this. 
Bet  she'll  laugh.     That  gal  knows  me  too  well!" 


69 


To  An  Unk 


nown 


Acto 


r 


At  the  left,  Pedro  Leon,  one  of  the  greatest  of  all  film  cowboys,  as  he 
looked  during  his  riding  and  roping  days  in  Hollywood.  Right, 
Pedro  in  a  scene  with  William  Farnum,  for  whom  he  sometimes 
doubled.  Pedro  worshipped  Farnum,  and  in  turn  had  the  affection 
of  all  moviedom 


FOREWORD  taken  from  the 
New  York  Times,  July  18,  1931, 
with  text  by  Will  Rogers.  His 
beautiful  tribute  to  a  real  Holly- 
wood actor: 


this 


was  a   man  an 


Beverly  Hills,  Calif.,  July  17. 

He  had  been  in  the  movies  for 
years,  just  about  the  best  real  cow- 
boy out  here,  the  most  graceful  roper 
I  ever  saw.  You  fans  didn't  know 
him,  for  he  didn't  get  to  do  much  but 
the  rough  stuff  and  the  skilled  stuff, 
but  when  any  director  wanted  any- 
thing done  right  on  a  horse  it  was 

"Pedro,  do  this  for  this  high-priced  'dummy'  and  he  can  take 
the  close-up."    Great  smile,  great  teeth,  great  disposition. 

You  have  gone  now,  Pedro,  to  where  when  you  do  something 
your  name  will  be  on  the  bills.  "Pedro  Leon,  en  persona,  un 
muy  bueno  hombrc."  You  was  a  Mexican  vaque.ro  to  some,  but 
a  real  man  to  those  who  knew  you.    Adios,  mi  amigo. 

Yours, 

Will  Rogers. 


He  never  had  a  story 
written  about  him 
while  he  lived.     Read 


one  now. 


gentleman 


by  lassoing  thirteen  horses  running 
abreast.  To  a  motion  picture  com- 
pany he  was  invaluable,  it  was  "Pete, 
do  that  leap,  will  you?"  "Where's 
Pedro  Leon  ?  "  and  so  on. 

I  remember  a  scene  taken  near  a 
waterfall    in    the    mountains    high 
above  the  desert.     A  hut  had  been 
built  by  the  company  in  which  several 
scenes  were  to  be  taken.     In  that 
country  there  was  danger  of  centi- 
pedes   and    rattlesnakes    and    Pete 
searched  the  cabin  carefully  before 
anyone  entered,  to  see  whether,  dur- 
ing the  night,  some  reptile  had  taken 
the  place  over.    He  made  a  little  lasso  from  one  hair  of  a  horse's 
tail  and  emerged  with  a  five-inch  centipede  hanging  from  the 
end  of  it! 


He 

d 


a 


I'VE  seen  him  pick  up  rattlers  as  though  they  were  puppies, 
extract  their  fangs  and  put  them  in  a  cage.     He'd  take  them 


THE  first  time  I  ever  saw  Pedro  Leon  was  in  1920  at  Palm 
Springs,  California,  where  he  was  doubling  for  William 
Farnum  in  heavy  riding  of  "The  Orphan."  I  was  handling  the 
company  publicity.  Bill  didn't,  until  the  year  before,  employ  a 
"double,"  but  an  accident  while  making  a  sea  picture  in  which 
he  was  nearly  drowned  and  the  pleurisy  which  followed  a  night 
of  exposure  on  Santa  Cruz  Island  made  this  necessary. 

We  all  stood  watching  Pete,  as  we  called  him,  riding  hell  bent 
for  leather  down  a  steep  canyon,  make  a  flying  leap  over  a 
ravine  and  then  for  the  open  desert.  He  was  a  magnificent 
figure,  tall,  powerfully  built,  with  black  curly  hair  and  flashing 
teeth — the  thing  you  were  not  prepared  for  was  the  tenderness 
in  his  eyes. 

Pete  was  a  cowboy  and  one  of  the 
finest  ropers  in  California.    He  broke  JD  TT       I  T  7  I 

his  own  record  at  a  rodeo  that  year         ■*-*  y      J.  J.  C  l  c  ft     J—t  ii  it  i  n  l/l 

70 


by  the  back  of  their  necks,  thumb  and  index  finger  held  strongly 
just  at  the  hinge  behind  the  jaw.  He  often  lassoed  them  with  a 
horsehair  lariat  of  several  plaited  strands,  though  I  never  hap- 
pened to  see  him  do  that. 

Farnum  rode  an  excitable  horse  and  one  day  a  scene  was  to 
be  taken  on  a  plateau  overlooking  a  plain.  Indians  and  cow- 
boys, were  fighting  it  out  down  there,  guns  popping  in  every 
direction.  Bill's  horse  danced  on  the  edge  of  a  two-hundred 
foot  drop  during  the  taking  of  the  scene.  Pedro  stood  in  back 
of  Farnum  but  out  of  camera  range.  He  had  a  lariat  over  his 
arm,  this  time  a  st  xut  leather  one. 

I  noticed  that  he  watched  Farnum  like  a  hawk.  When  the 
scene  was  over  I  said,  "Pete,  were  you  standing  by  in  case-Mr. 
Farnum's  horse  plunged  over  that  drop?  "  He  turned  quickly 
and  his  eyes,  to  my  surprise,  filled  with  tears. 

"You  see  that,  Miss?"  he  asked.  He  adored  the  ground 
Farnum  walked  on.  "  Yes,  the  horse, 
she  would  have  to  go.     But  I  save 

Mista      [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  11  0  J 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  Octoiser,  1931 


71 


'OuC     l/ZxJi&l    camp 


u/?7vy?zS  ^J//7rb&ujejOWz    l/lArrruyn) 


The  Marchioness  of 
Milford  Haven 


GSSh 


Mil       < 

5 

(fir* 


J_JADY  MILFORD  HAVEN  sat 
in  her  suite  in  a  great  New  York 
hotel,  high  above  the  brilliant 
pageant  of  Fifth  Avenue.  It 
was  evening,  and  she  was 
royally  lovely  in  a  sheath  of 
white  satin  with  dazzling 
jewels  and  superb  pearls  that 
echoed  the  creamy  perfection 
of  her  skin. 

I  put  the  question  I  had 
come  to  ask  and  the  Mar- 
chioness smiled  enchantingly. 

"American  women?  But  of 
course — I  find  them  delight- 
ful! So  pretty.  So  charming- 
ly dressed.  So  perfectly 
groomed.  They  have  the  most 
appealing  charm  that  any 
woman  can  possess — " 

"And  that—?"  .  .  . 

" — is  a  beautiful  complexion,  unques- 
tionably." 

Lady  Milford  Haven's  pretty  compli- 
ment was  obviously  sincere.  "Thank 
you!"  I  said,  and  we  went  on  to  talk  of 
the  care  of  the  skin. 

"No  wonder  American  women  have 
beautiful  complexions,"  she  smiled,  "for 
many  I  have  asked  tell  me  they  follow 
the  Pond's  Method." 

"You  know  it,  too?"  . .  .  Delightful  to 
discover  another  royal  user  of  Pond's! 

"I  find  it  the  simplest  way  to  keep  my 
skin  fresh  and  clear,"  she  explained. 


Lady  Milford  Haven, 
daughter  of  the  late  Grand 
Duke  Michael  of  Russia,  is 
the  wife  of  a  Lieutenant- 
Commander  in  the  British 
Royal  Navy,  a  son  of  the  late 
Prince  Louis  of  Battenberg. 


You,  too,  should  follow  these  four  steps 
to  loveliness: 

1.  Generously  apply  Pond"s  Cold 

%  ^tf0     Cream  for  pore-deep  cleansing  of 

your  face  and  neck  several  times 
daily,  always  after  exposure.  Let 
the  fine  oils  sink  into  the  pores 
and  float  all  the  clogged  dirt  to 
At  bedtime,  repeat  this  all- 
important  cleansing  to  remove  the  day's  accu- 
mulation of  grime. 

2.  Wipe  away  with 
Pond's  Tissues,  less 
expensive  yet  more 
efficient  because 
softer,  so  much  more 


the  surface 


absorbent.  White  or  peach. "The 
best  way  to  remove  cold  cream," 
Lady  Milford  Haven  says. 

3.  With  Pond's  Skin  Freshener 
pat  cleansed  skin 
briskly  to  brace  and 
tone,  banish  lingering 
oiliness,  close  and  re- 
fine pores,  and  bring  a 
lovely  natural  color  to 
faded,    sallow   cheeks. 

4.  Smooth  on  Pond's  Vanishing 
Cream  always  before  you  powder, 
to  make  the  powder  go  on  more 
evenly  and  last  longer.  This  dis- 
guises any  little  blemishes  in  your 
skin  and  gives  a  cool,  well-bred 
finish  .  .  .  Use  this  exquisite  Van- 
ishing Cream  not  only 
on  your  face,  but  wher- 
ever you  powder  — 
neck,  shoulders,  arms 
. . .  And  it  is  marvel- 
ous to  keep  hands  soft,  smooth  and  white- 
always  after  having  your  hands  in  water. 


Tune  in  on  Pond's  program  every  Friday  eve- 
ning at  9:30  P.M.,  E.D.S.T.  Lea  Reisman  and 
his  Orchestra.  WEAF  and  X.U.C.  Network. 

Send  10(5  for  Pond's  4  Preparations 

pond's  extract  COMPANY,  Depl.X 
114  Hudson  Street New  York  City 


-State- 


O.Drritfbt.  1931.  Pond'«  Extract  Company 


72 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Fascinating  stage 

and  screen  star  has  a 

Complexion  Secret 

you,  too,  can  share! 


'T  AM  over  forty  years  old,"  says  Pauline  Frederick.    But 
-i-  who  would  believe  it  looking  at  the  recent  picture  above! 

"And  I  am  now  realizing  that  it  is  not  birthdays  which 
really  count.  It  is  whether  or  not  a  woman  retains  her  youth- 
ful complexion. 

"After  every  performance  of  my  present  stage  vehicle, 
Elizabeth  the  Queen,  I  use  Lux  Toilet  Soap  to  cleanse  my 
skin  of  makeup.  Not  only  does  it  remove  every  trace  of 
grease  paint,  but  it  protects  my  complexion  and  leaves  my 

LUX  Toilet 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


73 


over  40! 


V 


face  feeling  fresh  and  invigorated.  I  have  used -this  soap  regu- 
larly for  a  long  time  and  find  that  it  does  wonders  for  my  skin." 

Countless  other  beautiful  women  of  the  stage  and  screen 
agree  on  the  soothing  qualities  of  this  white  soap. 

In  Hollywood,  of  the  613  important  actresses  (including  all 
stars)  605  use  fragrant,  white  Lux  Toilet  Soap  regularly.  It 
is  official  in  all  film  studios.  The  Broadway  stars,  the  Euro- 
pean stars,  too,  are  devoted  to  it. 

Surely  you  will  want  to  try  it  for  your  skin! 


S 


oap 


10* 


PAULINE  FREDERICK  in  her  present  stage  success, 
Elizabeth  the  Queen.  With  amazing  versatility  she 
transforms  her  face  into  a  remarkable  likeness  to  the 
famous  queen! 


Girl,  Wife,  Grandmother 


When  "Over  the 
Hill"  was  first  made, 
thousands  of  old  folks 
were  taken  from  alms 
houses  by  children 
who  had  neglected 
them.   And  now — 


Mae  Marsh  plays  the 
role  that  made  Mary 
Carr  famous.  The 
new  version  retains 
the  tears  and  heart 
throbs.  Here's  Mae 
as  the  grandmother 


P  ho tograp hy 

by 

Hal  Phyje 


Just  as  lovely  as  she  was  in  the  Griffith 

era,  Mae  Marsh  makes  a  comeback  in 

"Over  the  Hill."     She's  like  this  in  early 

scenes  of  the  picture 


Herself  a  wife  and  mother,  Mae  has  lost 

none  of  her  captivating    wistfulness,  as 

you  can  see  by  this  portrait  of  her  as  the 

wife.     Good  work,  Mae 


7i 


I 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 

This  seal 


75 


answers  the  question: 


a 


what  toothpaste  should  I  use?" 


What  is  this  seal? 

It  is  the  seal  of  acceptance  of  the 
American  Dental  Association,  Council 
on  Dental  Therapeutics. 

What  is  the  Council  on 

Dental  Therapeutics? 

This  Council  is  composed  of  13  promi- 
nent men  of  science,  appointed  by  the 
American  Dental  Association,  and 
chosen  for  their  outstanding  ability  in 
various  branches  of  modern  dentistry. 
Its  purpose  is  to  analyze  the  compo- 
sition of  dental  products,  such  as 
toothpastes,  and  pass  upon  the  claims 
that  are  made  for  them.  The  Council 
has  no  interest  whatsoever  in  the  sale 
of  any  product.  Its  only  interest  is  to 
serve  the  dental  profession  and  the 
public — to  act  as  a  guide. 

What  is  the  meaning  of 

this  seal? 

This  seal  identifies  products  which 
have  been  passed  on  by  the  Council. 
When  found  on  a  toothpaste,  it  means 
that  the  composition  of  this  toothpaste 
has  been  submitted  to  the  Council, 
and  that  its  claims  have  been  found 
acceptable. 


Colgate's  bears  this  seal 


Climaxing  30  years  of  leader- 
ship, Colgate's  Ribbon  Dental 
Cream  has  been  accepted  by 
the  American  Dental  Associa- 
tion, Council  on  Dental  Thera- 
peutics. 

Colgate's  has  been  more 
universally  recommended  by 
dentists  through  the  years  than 
any  other  toothpaste  ever  made. 

This  famous  dentifrice  stands 
alone.  It  has  healthfully  and 
completely  cleansed  more  peo- 


ple's teeth  than  any  other  den- 
tifrice in  the  world. 

Colgate's  sells  for  a  low 
price — but  only  because  it  is 
sold  in  overwhelming  volume. 
It  is  the  quality  of  Colgate's — 
and  quality  alone  —  that  has 
held  its  leadership  for  years 
and  years. 

Be  guided  by  the  seal  of  ac- 
ceptance. Use  Colgate's  to 
keep  your  teeth  healthfully 
and  completely  clean. 


ONE  of  the  greatest  stars  of  yesteryear  plays  movie  mamma  to  one  of  today's 
brightest  sparklers !  Pauline  Frederick  and  Joan  Crawford  as  they  appear  in 
"This  Modern  Age."  They  are  real-life  pals — and  there's  even  a  resemblance! 
By  this  time,  Joan  has  her  natural  red-brown  hair  again — she  went  platinum  for 
one  picture.  Incidentally,  though  Miss  Frederick  replaced  Marjorie  Rambeau  in 
the  cast,  it  remained  something  of  a  family  affair.  Both  ladies  had  tries  at  matri' 
mony  with  the  marriage-minded  playwright,  Willard  Mack 


76 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


"Palmolive  is  a  de- 
lightful soap  to  use — 
bland,  soothing  and 
gentle,  yet  its  soft 
lather  has  wonderful 
cleansing  properties." 
Marguerite  Hoare 

ot  London 


"Don't  use  just  any 
soap  .  .  .  particularly 
if  your  skin  is  irri- 
tated! Use  Palmolive. 
It  is  made  of  the  cos- 
metic oils  of  olive  and 
palm."      Niraus 

of  Madrid 


"Only  a  pure  soap — 
a  soap  made  of  fine 
soothing  cosmetic  oils 
— will  do  for  your  face. 
That  is  why  I  recom- 
mend only  Palmolive." 
Pessl  of  Vienna 

and  Budapest 


"Palmolive  Soap  im- 
proves your  color  and 
tones  up  your  skin. 
It  is  bland  and  neu- 
tral. Use  this  fine  fa- 
cial soap  twice  a  day." 
Dahlstrand 

of  Stockholm 


"Ordinary  soap  may 
irritate  the  skin  and 
hurt  the  tissues.  That 
is  why  I  insist  upon 
Palmolive,  a  true 
beauty  soap." 

Pezxa 
of  Naples 


"Thorough  cleansing 
must  be  obtained  by 
daily  use  of  soap  and 
water.  I  recommend 
the  vegetable  oil  soap 
—Palmolive." 

Sterck-Schinzel 

of  Cologne 


"It  doesn't  pay  to 
experiment — when 
beauty  is  at  stake  use 
Palmolive.  Nothing 
equals  its  stimulating, 
soothing  cosmetic 
oils." 

Paul 

of  Fifth  Ave. 


"Use  Palmolive,  a 
soap  that  is  effective 
but  gentle  in  its  ac- 
tion. The  vegetable 
oils  of  olive  and  palm 
make  Palmolive 
soothing." 

Hoefer 

of  Chicago 


These  famous  names 

are  among  the 

20,000  beauty  experts 

who  recommend 

Palmolive 


"Repeated  experi- 
ments have  convinced 
me  that  vegetable  oils 
in  soap  are  best  for 
your  skin.  That  is  why 
I  say  use  Palmolive." 
Mrs.  McGavran 

of  Kansas  City 


"Don't  mistreat  your 
complexion  by  using 
the  wrong  soap — use 
Palmolive.  Its  vege- 
table oils  make  a  soap 
that  is  safe." 

Jessie  Henderson 
of  Los  Angeles 


When  soaps  claim 
beauty  results 

ask  first  what  they  are  made  of 


Palmolive  tells  you — willingly — 
it  is  made  of  olive  and  palm  oils 


Today  there  are  many  soaps  on 
the  market.  Some  make  extrava- 
gant claims.  You  are  often  confused  — 
don't  know  which  soap  to  choose.  You 
take  great  chances,  endanger  your 
complexion,  unless  you  know  what 
is  in  the  soap  you  use  on  your  face. 

Choice  of  experts 

Palmolive  Soap  is  the  choice  of  over 
20,000  beauty  experts.  They  know 
what's  in  this  soap.  They  know  it  is 
made  of  olive  and  palm  oils — the 
world's  supreme  cosmetic  oils. 

Don't  let  anyone  convince  you  that 


results  will  do  for  you  what  Palm- 
olive does.  Palmolive  results  come 
from  Palmolive  only. 

Palmolive  is  a  pure  soap.  Its  del- 
icate, natural  color  comes  from  the 
fine  vegetable  oils  of  which  it  is  made. 
It  is  naturally  wholesome,  just  like 
the  complexions  it  fosters. 

It  gives  a  creamy,  fine-textured 
lather  that  removes  accumulations 
of  dirt,  oil,  powder,  which  otherwise 
cause  coarse  pores,  roughness,  mud- 
diness  —  a  dozen  and  one  blemishes 
to  skin  beauty. 

Youth  captivates . . .  youth  charms. 
Use  Palmolive — only  Palmolive — to 


Consult  your 
beauty  specialist 

There  is  just  one  per- 
son whose  business 
it  is  to  help  you  keep 
good  looks.  That  is  the 
trained  professional 
beauty  specialist.  Put 
your  beauty  problems 
in  her  hands.  She  will 
help  you  solve  them. 


soap  which  merely  claims  beauty      keep  that  schoolgirl  complexion. 


\SL&Jp  iukxjL^S(^r\JCrxy^        QrnnJJLsL^Juo^ 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  45  ] 


We  just  had  to  reprint  this  picture  of 
Mae  Murray  and  her  husband,  David 
Mdivani,  taken  after  the  wedding  in 
1927.  Recently,  after  a  spat,  they 
made  up — just  like  this! 


MORE  Love,  etc.— 
Crane  Wilbur  and  Lenita  Lane  plan  to 
do  the  wedding  march.  .  .  .  Olive  Borden  and 
husband  Teddy  Stewart  have  separated.  .  .  . 
Hoot  Gibson  agrees  with  ex-wife  to  pay  her 
S4.000  more  alimony  and  undertake  education 
of  their  daughter  under  his  own  direction  .  .  . 
Hoot  and  present  wife,  Sally  Eilers,  still 
among  Hollywood's  happiest.  .  .  .  Lillian 
Gish  returns  to  America  from  having  heart 
trouble  treated  in  Europe  and  is  kissed  on 
the  dock  by  George  Jean  Nathan.  .  .  .  Bob 
"Is  Zat  So?"  Armstrong  wins  divorce  from 
dancer-wife,  Jeanne  Kent  Armstrong  .  .  .  says 
she  got  letters  from  other  men  at  other  ad- 
dresses than  home.  .  .  .  Miriam  "Smiling 
Lieutenant"  Hopkins  separates  from  Austin 
(Playwright)  Parker  because  their  lives  "just 
wouldn't  blend."  .  .  .  Gary  Cooper  comes 
back  from  European  tour  and  is  seen  places 
with  Tallulah  Bankhead  in  New  York,  Bank- 
head  having  returned  from  Hope  Williams' 
ranch  in  Wyoming.  .  .  .  Janet  Gattis 
McCormick  Reno-tifies  the  world  that  she's 
divorcing  John  ex-Colleen  McCormick  because 
he  can't  get  Colleen  out  of  his  mind  and  goes 
into  the  silences  when  he  sees  pictures  of  her. 
.  .  .  Jack  Divorced-From-Pauline-Starke 
White  at  opening  of  Embassy  Roof  with  Renee 
Torres,  Raquel's  sister.  .  .  .  Mary  Duncan  kept 
her  marriage  to  Lewis  Wood,  Jr.,  a  secret  for 
three  months.  He  is  a  New  York  business  man. 


IS  Lilyan  Tashman  going  to  have  a  baby? 
When  asked  about  the  report,  Lilyan  replied 
"We're  having  beautiful  weather  in  California 
this  summer." 

And  Eddie  says,  "Well  you  know  Holly- 
wood. Rumor  hounds  know  about  it  ten 
months  before  the  father  and  mother." 

MRS. EDITH  SHEARER, Norma's 
mother,  took  a  trip  to  Reno  recently  and 
when  she  came  back  to  Hollywood  Pa  Shearer 
was  a  matrimonial  discard. 

Ma  didn't  make  any  sensational  charges 
about  Pa.  It  seemed  to  be  very  agreeable  all 
around. 

Just  a  few  years  ago  Ma  and  Pa  were  happy 


The  Chinese  maid  at  the  top  is,  of 
course,  an  old  pal  of  ours,  Anna  May 
Wong.  The  other  is  her  sister  Mary, 
or  Hueng,  who  appears  with  Anna 
May  in  "Daughter  of  the  Dragon" 


in  Montreal.  Pa  was  a  building  contractor. 
When  Norma  came  to  Hollywood,  Mother 
Shearer  was  right  along  to  take  care  of  the 
budding  star.  We  must  say  that  she  has  done 
very  well  with  her  child. 

Pa  got  ailing  and  followed  to  get  some  of 
the  bracing  California  sunshine.  After  a 
session  with  the  doctors  and  several  operations, 
they  fixed  him  up  so  well  that  he  immediately 
blossomed  out,  became  a  member  of  a  golf 
club  and  no  handsome  young  leading  man 
ever  wore  better  togs.  The  haberdashers  al- 
ways smiled  when  Pa  Shearer  came  through 
the  door  because  he  was  a  good  customer  and 
would  invariably  choose  himself  nifty  socks 


and  ties.  Pa  entered  into  the  spirit  of  Holly- 
wood with  great  zest. 

"LTOLLYWOOD'S  newest  trick— a 
-*■  -"-Hawaiian-style  lei  of  tuberoses, 
instead  of  a  corsage  of  orchids  or 
gardenias. 

Colleen  Moore  introduced  the  new 
idea  at  the  opening  of  the  Embassy 
Roof  Garden. 

"CVERY  time  that  Lupe  Velez  goes  out  on  a 
-'—'party  she  carries  along  a  little  square  card 
on  the  chance  that  she  will  meet  Greta  Garbo 
and  get  her  autograph.  Lupe  is  an  out  and 
out  Garbo  fan  and  when  that  vivacious  little 
Mexican  girl  likes  them,  she  likes  them — and 
when  she  doesn't  they  know  it. 

Lupe  would  never  become  a  diplomat.  But 
she  is  so  downright  honest  that  everyone  of 
her  acquaintances  knows  just  where  he  stands 
in  her  likes  and  dislikes.  In  her  home  she 
has  a  scrap-book  of  Greta  Garbo  which  con- 
tains every  picture  of  her  that  has  ever  ap- 
peared in  a  magazine.  "That  girl  Greta," 
said  Lupe,  "she  is  the  best  of  them  all." 

And  the  strange  thing  is  that  their  paths 
have  crossed  but  once.  Lupe  confesses  that 
she  was  so  awed  at  that  meeting  that  for  once 
she  didn't  have  much  to  say.  There  is  one 
star  in  Hollywood  for  whom  Lupe  has  no  love 
whatever. 

The  reason  for  her  dislike  is  that  the  star 
tries  to  imitate  her  idol. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  82  ] 


This  pensive  infant,  by  his  work  in 
one  picture,  pushed  right  up  to  the 
front  rank  of  child  actors.  It's  Dicky 
Moore,  who  was  seen  to  such  good 
advantage  in  "The  Star  Witness" 


78 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


looth  raste  for    h 


wo 


at  the  price  of  one! 

—  and  results  as  amazing  as  the  price! 


Few  people  are  innocent  enough, 
these  days,  to  believe  that  two  can 
live  as  cheaply  as  one.  But  many  a 
couple  has  found  that  even  if  the 
old  theory  is  not  true  of  any  other 
expenses,  it  is  true  of  tooth  paste. 


From  50^  dentifrices,  they  have 
switched  over  to  Listerine  Tooth 
Paste,  at  25c^  a  tube.  This  makes 
their  combined  bill  just  what  each 
of  them  paid  before! 

Most  people  use  a  tube  a  month. 


Saving  25^  twelve  times,  means  $3 
a  year,  for  each  person  in  the  family. 
This  often  adds  up  to  quite  a  sizable 
and  welcome  economy. 

Naturally,  however,  it  would  be 
foolish  to  save  money  at  the  cost  of 
inferior  tooth-cleansing.  That  would 
only  result  in  dentists'  bills  many 
times  the  yearly  cost  of  any  tooth 
paste. 

Listerine  Tooth  Paste  cleans, 
whitens,  and  polishes  as  well  as  any 
brand  made.  It  contains  a  special 
element  which  does  the  work  excel- 
lently, with  half  the  effort — yet  is 
absolutely  safe  for  your  tooth  enamel. 
And  the  lively,  clean  taste  it  leaves 
in  your  mouth  reminds  you  of 
Listerine  itself. 

We  could  never  offer  you  this  high 
quality  at  so  low  a  price  except  for 
two  facts.  Our  manufacturing  meth- 
ods are  perfectly  efficient.  And  vast 
production  is  made  possible  by  the 
continued  demand  of  millions  of  men 
and  women.  Lambert  Pharmacal 
Company,  St.  Louis,  Mo.,  U.  S.  A. 

A  pair  of  golf  hose 
for  you! 


By  using  Listerine  Tooth  Paste  rather  than 
a  50<^  dentifrice,  you  save  $3  a  year.  That 
would  buy  Listerine  Tooth  Paste  for  another 
member  of  your  family  for  an  entire  year — 
or  any  number  of  things,  such  as  a  pair  of 
golf  hose. 


The  makers  of  Listerine  Tooth  Paste 

recommend 
Pro- phy- lac- tic   Tooth   Brushes 


Listerine  Tooth  Paste  -25 


8o 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


cdcmb  & 


'd  wm  a  twmfo  to  mmm 


Joan  Crawford,  beautiful  Metro-Coldwyn-Mayer  star, 
for  luncheon  wears  all-black  relieved  by  touches  of  white, 
irith  hat  back  from  the  forehead,  and  sleeves  airay  from 
the  wrist.  For  morning,  she  has  a  clever  little  sports- 
suit,  with  brown  skirt  and  plaided  jacket.  For  formal 
evening,  she  wears  a  molded  satin  gown. 


Never  have  fashions  been  so 
individual.  Dresses  must  be 
fitted  and  refitted  until  they  become 
a  part  of  you.  Slimness  and  curves 
must  be  accentuated  to  achieve  the 
smartest  effect. 

Those  fortunate  few  who  have  a 
perfect  figure  are  captivating  in 
these  new  creations.  The  rest  of  us 
must  give  our  figures  as  much  atten- 
tion as  our  complexions. 

But,  in  dieting,  we  must  be  so 
careful  to  include  plenty  of  "bulk." 


Without  this  vital  food-element, 
elimination  soon  becomes  faulty. 
Poisons  spread  over  the  body. 
Cheeks  lose  color.  Eyes  their  liveli- 
ness. Headaches,  loss  of  appetite 
and  energy  are  other  consequences. 
Health  %is  undermined.  Beauty 
vanishes. 

Why  risk  this  danger  when  im- 
proper elimination  can  be  overcome 
so  easily?  Just  include  one  delicious 
cereal  in  an  adequate  reducing  diet: 
Kellogg's  All-Bran.  Two  table- 
spoonfuls  daily  will  guarantee  proper 
elimination.  Isn't  this  safer,  and 
more  pleasant  than  abusing  your 
system  with  pills  and  drugs? 

Kellogg's  All-Bran  is  one  prod- 
uct you  can  enjoy  day  after  day 
with  unfailing  appetite.  Try  it  with 
milk  or  in  fruit  juices.  Use  in  cook- 
ing, too.  Kellogg's  All-Bran  is  not 
fattening.    It  provides   iron,   needed 


for  healthy  complexions.  There's 
only  one  All-Bran,  and  that's 
Kellogg's — by  far  the  largest-selling 
all-bran  cereal  on  the  market.  In  the 
red-and-green  package.  At  all  grocers. 
Made   by  Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 


WRITE     FOR    FREE     BOOKLET 

"THE    MODERN    FIGURE" 

Leading  motion-picture  actresses 

are    shown    to   you    in    "fashion 

close-ups,"  wearing  the  costumes 

that  millions  of  critical  eyes  will 

see   on    the   screen.    Everything 

from    sports-togs   to   evening 

gowns.    In  addition,    the   booklet  is  full  of 

valuable     information    on    how     to    reduce 

wisely.  Free  upon  request. 

KELLOGG  COMPANY 

Dept.  A-io,  Battle  Creek,  Michigan 

Please  send  me  a  free  copy  of  your  booklet, 
"The  Modern  Figure." 


Na 


Address^ 


Three  guesses  who  this  smiling 
young  chef  is.  You're  right, 
it's  Jackie  iSkippy)  Cooper 
putting  a  finger  in  the  pie.  The 
pleased  look  is  anticipation, 
we  suspect! 


\ackies  Halloween  Party 


rHERE  is  going  to  be  a  Halloween  party    at    Jackie 
Cooper's  house.    There  probably  will  be  lots  of  stunts — ■ 
weird,  flapping  ghosts  and  strange,  creepy  noises  every- 
where, but  when  everyone  is  hungry,  there  will  be  plenty 
I  goodies  waiting  close  by.    That  rascal  Jackie  will  have  more 
lan  a  hand  in  the  pranks  played  on  his  guests,  but  not  many 
[  them  will  guess  that  he  had  a  hand  in  the  cooking,  too! 
Jackie  thinks  the  best  way  to  be  sure  of  getting  that  last 
ck  of  the  spoon  is  to  lend  a  helping  hand  at  beating  the 
jokie  batter  or  stirring  the  ingredients  for  a  pie.     He  cer- 
linly  looks  as  if  he  were  expecting  miracles  from  that  bowl. 
Three  of  those  miracles  have  been  jotted  down  so  that  your 
[alloween  feast  can  include  the  very  same  recipes  that  will  be 
Hind  that  night  at  the  Coopers'. 

Pumpkin  Pie 


Peanut  Cookies 


J/2  cup  butter 
1  cup  sugar 
1  egg 


}~2  cup  flour 

J4  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  chopped  peanuts 


Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  beat  in  the 
well-beaten  egg.  Sift  the  flour  and  salt  together  and  add  with 
the  peanuts.  Drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  well-greased  cookie 
sheet.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes. 


N 


0  party  is  a  real  success  without  candy.     And  when  it's 
home-made  candy,  there  is  never  a  piece  left! 

Chocolate  Caramels 


1  cup  cooked  pumpkin 
1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  teaspoon  ground  ginger 
1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon 

Add  the  seasonings  and 
be  sugar  to  the  pumpkin 
nd  mix  well.  Then  the 
ightly  beaten  eggs  and  the 
lilk,  and  last  of  all  stir  in 
tie  melted  butter.  Turn 
lto  a  pie  plate  lined  with 
astry  and  bake  in  a  hot 
ven  for  five  minutes.  Then 
)wer  the  heat  to  moderate 
nd  bake  until  the  filling  is 
et. 

PEANUT  cookies  are  a 
delicacy  that  will  tempt 
ny  young  or  old  taste.  A 
enerous  supply  of  them  are 
;ept  in  the  Cooper  cookie 
ar  all  the  year  'round.  And 
ackie  treats  himself  as 
;encrously  to  them. 


l/i  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs 

2  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 


Photoplay  Magazine 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous 
Cook  Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the 
stars.     I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


2  cups  sugar  Yi  cup  milk 

4  squares  chocolate,  grated  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  saucepan,  stirring  until  the  sugar 

is  dissolved  and  the  choco- 
late melted.  Then  let  boil 
without  stirring  until  the 
firm  ball  stage  is  reached. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and 
turn  at  once  into  a  lightly 
buttered  square  pan. 

No  party  of  the  whole 
year  offers  more  exciting 
possibilities  for  entertain- 
ment and  decoration  than 
Halloween.  Eerie  lights, 
lighted  pumpkin  faces  that 
grin  in  wide,  toothless  fash- 
ion, shocks  of  corn  stalks, 
and  fantastic  shapes  that 
brush  by  you  as  you  pass 
from  room  to  room  are  only 
a  few  of  the  thrills  this 
ancient  festival  offers. 


CAROLYN  VAN  VYYCK 
81 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


(  CONTINUED  PROM  PACE  78  j 


Keystone 


Addie  McPhail,  the  prospective  Mrs.  Roscoe  "Fatty"  Arbuckle  No.  3, 
photographed  with  the  happy  bridegroom-to-be.    We  all  know  her  as  a 
film  comedy  girl.    Roscoe  will  lead  her  to  the  altar  when  his  divorce  de- 
cree is  made  final 


course.  .  .  .  Molly  O'Day  and  James  Dunn, 
the  boy  who  made  the  big  sensation  in  "Bad 
Girl,"  seen  together.  .  .  .  Incidentally  Molly's 
lost  fifteen  pounds.  .  .  .  What  love  will  do! 
.  .  .  Pola  Negri  is  going  places  with  Charles 
"Four  Sons"  Morton.  .  .  .  But  not  exclu- 
sively. .  .  .  Ethel  Clayton  files  suit  for  divorce 
from  Ian  Keith.  .  .  .  She  says  he  drinks  too 
much.  .  .  .  Jean  Harlow's  suit  against  her 
husband  was  settled  out  of  court.  .  .  .  AND! 
The  biggest  romantic  news  of  the  month- 
Jackie  Cooper  takes  Mitzi  Green  to  all  the 
smart  places. 

IT  seems  that  Roman  Novarro's  popularity 
down  home  in  Mexico  has  gone  flat — while 
Don  Jose  Mojica's  is  booming.  And  it's  all 
because  of  music.  Mexicans  like  their  favorites 
to  sing.  They  like  music.  While  Novarro  war- 
bled, his  countrymen  liked  him.  In  "Son  of 
India,"  he  didn't  sing,  and  Novarro  isn't  so 
big  a  shot  below  the  Rio  Grande.  But  Don 
Jose  Mojica,  on  the  other  hand,  has  knocked 
'em  dead  with  his  work  in  the  Spanish  film 
"Hay  Que  Casar  el  Principe." 

"KyfARIE  DRESSLER'S  real  name  is  Leila 
* »-*-Koerber  and  Lil  Dagover  was  christened 
Lilith  Witt.  .  .  .  Hugh  Herbert  built  a  swim- 
ming pool  at  his  Malibu  BEACH  house!  .  .  . 
Douglas  Fairbanks  (papa,  not  junior)  and 
Harold  Lloyd  are  Hollywood's  fiercest  golf 
battlers  .  .  .  they  shoot  it  out  in  the  70's 
several  times  a  week.  .  .  .  George  Arliss  is  so 
superstitious  about  his  walking  stick  that  when 


SOME  "Yesses"  and  "Nos" — 
Viola  Dana  utterly  domesticated  these 
days  in  a  little  apartment  in  Colorado  Springs 
as  wife  of  Jimmy  Thompson,  golf  professional. 
.  .  .  Otto  Matiesen  divorced  by  wife  for 
"arrogance."  .  .  .  Rumors  that  Tom  Mix's 
daughter  plans  annulment  of  marriage  to 
Douglas  Screen-Villain  Gilmore.  .  .  .  Lloyd 
Hamilton  escapes  jail  cell  by  paying  overdue 
alimony  three  minutes  before  deadline  set  by 
hard-hearted  judge.  .  .  .  Court  slices  knot 
between  the  Tim  (Cowboy)  McCoys.  .  .  . 
Billie  Dove  gets  her  final  decree  from  Irving 
Willat  and  Howard  "Hell's  Angels"  Hughes  is 
seen  out  with  Frances  Dee.  .  .  .  Raymond 
Griffith  is  a  papa;  it's  a  boy.  .  .  .  Bert 
Comedian  Roach  says  bric-a-brac  tossing  is 
okay  on  the  screen  but  wants  divorce  because 
his  wife  does  it  at  home.  .  .  .  Director  William 
"Public  Enemy"  Wellman  admits  he  plans  to 
marry  Aviatrix  Marjorie  Crawford  when  he 
gets  his  final  from  Mrs.  Wellman  No.  2.  .  .  . 
Sylvia  Breamer  does  the  Mendelssohn  trek 
with  Big  Business  Man  Edmund  Bohan,  Los 
Angeles.  .  .  .  Mae  Clarke,  ex-fiancee  of  John 
McCormick,  won't  say  yes  or  no  about  marry- 
ing Henry  Freulich,  cameraman.  .  .  .  Never 
again,  says  Pev  Marley,  admitting  failure  of 
reconciliation  with  Lina  Basquette  .  .  .  Lina 
rumored  that  way  about  another  cameraman. 

TT  looked  for  two  days  as  if  there  wouldn't  be 
J-a  prince  left  in  Hollywood.  Mae  Murray 
started  a  suit  for  divorce  in  which  she  com- 
plained that  Prince  David  of  the  house  of 
Mdivani  was  not  very  gentle  with  her,  that  he 
had  thrown  her  to  the  floor  and  knocked  her 
unconscious.  Two  days  later  she  regretted  her 
hasty  action  and  said  that  all  was  love  and 
serenity,  that  after  all  she  and  the  prince  had 
to  bear  in  mind  the  duty  they  owed  their  child. 
The  Marquis  de  la  Falaise  de  la  Coudray  went 
bouncing  abroad  with  Constance  Bennett.  The 
love  light  seems  to  be  shining  there  brightly. 

Pola  Negri's  now  an  ex-princess  although  she 
didn't  ask  the  French  court  for  permission  to 
resume  her  maiden  name.     But  Pola  seems 


Keystone 


A  jolly  little  fellow  who  is  trying  matrimony  a  second  time !  Paul  Whiteman, 

king  of  jazz  and  emperor  of  ha-cha-cha,  with  Margaret  Livingston,  whom 

he  recently  married.   They  seem  happy  about  it  all 


happy  and  there  is  no  record  of  any  great  un- 
happiness  on  Gloria's  part.  After  all  we  owe 
Mae  something  for  hanging  onto  her  prince, 
although  titles  do  not  seem  to  mean  as  much 
in  Hollywood  as  they  used  to.  A  good  job  and 
regular  meals  are  much  more  important  than  a 
royal  moniker. 


WHOSE  Heart  Is  Whose:— 
It   won't   be   long   now 
Compson  is  Mrs.  Hugh  Trevor  . 


before   Betty 
.  .  unless,  of 


he  left  it  behind  at  the  studio  on  his  recent  trip 
back  to  England  he  cabled  to  Hollywood  and 
had  it  forwarded  to  him.  .  .  .  Duncan 
"Trader  Horn"  Renaldo  has  finally  won  his 
fight  with  the  government  on  citizenship  by 
proving  he  was  born  in  this  country.  .  . 
Serge  Fisenstein,  Russian  director,  is  going  to 
make  another  try  at  picture  making  in  Holly- 
wood. ...  A  Mexican  producing  company  is 
building  its  own  "Hollywood"  in  a  suburb  of 
Mexico  City.  [  please  turn  to  page  84  ] 


82 


Photoplay  Magazine  ior  October,  1931 


Congratulations! 

You  ve  truly  captured 
youth  s  own  color  tints  in  this  new 
±wo~jL  one  Jrowaer  .   .   .  /Seventeen'. 

Says    DOROTHY    MACKAILL 

A  powder  to  imitate  tne  actual  complexion 
tints  of  youth?  Yes!  .  .  .  that  is  the  marvelous 
principle  on  which  Seventeen  Two-Tone  Powder 
■was  created! 

For  the  purpose  of  a  powder  is  not  to  coat  the 
skin  as  -with  a  mask.  Powders  which  dull  the 
natural  skin  tints  are  really  ageing  in  their  efiects. 

The  ideal  seventeen  -  year -old  complexion  is 
alive.  The  exquisite  colors  come  and  go.  The  skin 
seems  actually  transparent.  The  color  tints  are 
fresh,  radiant,  suhtle. 

And  so  should  be  the  color  tints  in  your  com- 
plexion powder!  Then  you  will  have  naturalness, 
not  artificiality  .  .  .  youthlul  delicacy,  not  mature 
dullness. 

Seventeen  found  a  way  to  imitate  the  natural  color 
tints  of  youth.   This  principle,  we  call  Two-Tone. 

Ingredients  of  different  -weights  are  blended: 
light  and  heavy.  The  heavier  powder  clings  closely 
to  your  skin.  The  lighter  weight  powder,  on  the 
surface,  seems  to  take  on  another,  lighter  color 
tone  .  .  .  which  creates  a  subtle  overtone  .  .  .  and 
lends  your  skin  the  delicate  transparency  of  youth. 

There  are  various  shades,  ol  course, in  Seventeen. 
Select  your  own,  as  in  any  other  powder.  But 
compare  this  shade  with  the  shade  you  now  are 
using!  Take  a  little  in  your  hand.  Note  the  life, 
the  radiance,  of  Seventeen.  Then,  a  flufl  of  Seven- 
teen on  your  skin,  vv  hat  a  glorious  difference! 
You  -will  congratulate  yourself  on  having  found 
this  Two-Tone,  Youth-Tone  Powder. 


{e£J23 


Yoi  th-Tone  tints  in 
Seventeen  Rouge  and 
Lipstick  gm  you — with 
Seventeen  Two-  Tone 
h*itwaei —  a  complete 
I  outh  -  Tone   maLc-up  J 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  82  ] 


Will  Alfred  Lunt  and  Lynn  Fontanne,  two  of  America's  outstanding  stage 
stars,  click  as  heavily  with  the  motion  picture  public?  We'll  soon  see  "The 
Guardsman,"  their  first  talkie,  and  know!  ZaSu  Pitts,  true  movie  trouper, 
is  saying,  "You  never  can  tell  what  a  picture  audience  will  like.  The  whole 
picture  must  be  as  good  as  the  actors!" 


CONSTANCE  BENNETT  has  had  the  same 
maid  for  nearly  ten  years.  .  .  .  Carole 
(Mrs.  Bill  Powell)  Lombard  was  seasick 
throughout  her  honeymoon  return  voyage 
from  Honolulu.  .  .  .  Tallulah  Bankhead's 
most  recent  brother-in-law  (Edward  Ennis 
White,  sixth  husband  of  Tallulah's  sister 
Eugenia)  was  jailed  in  Los  Angeles  on  check 
charges  .  .  .  and  Eugenia  says  she's  through 
marrying  forever!  .  .  .  For  a  wedding  gift  to 
the  Bill  Powells,  the  bride's  mother  gave  them 
a  Beverly  Hills  house.  .  .  .  Helen  Twelve- 
trees  loves  corned  beef  and  cabbage.  .  .  . 
Ullrich  Haupt,  German  character  actor  in 
films,  was  accidentally  shot  to  death  while 
hunting,  just  three  days  after  a  studio  pub- 
licity item  had  reported  that  hunting  was  his 
favorite  pastime.  .  .  .  Adolphe  Menjou  has 
never  joined  a  club.  .  .  .  Will  Rogers'  pet 
name  for  Fifi  Dorsay  is  "frog-zum."  ...  In 
case  you  don't  know,  Lawrence  Olivier  pro- 
nounces it  O-liv-yay. 

THE  fantastic  studio  pass  system  which 
allowed  a  bootlegger  to  enter  a  certain  lot 
unmolested  but  keeps  people  with  legitimate 
business  out  has  brought  with  it  a  collection  of 
swell  stories. 

A  fifteen-dollar-a-week  office  boy  kept  Will 
Hays  waiting  for  half  an  hour  outside  the  Radio 
Pictures  studios — because  Hays  didn't  have  a 
pass! 

George  Bancroft  was  being  interviewed  by  a 
Photoplay  writer,  whose  pass  read  only  to  the 
publicity  department.  The  two  decided  to  go 
to  George's  dressing-room.  A  policeman 
stopped  them.  George  could  go  into  his  dress- 
ing room  but  his  guest  couldn't — without  a 
pass!  The  two  had  to  go  back  to  the  publicity 
department  for  one.  And  another  reporter  had 
to  get  a  pass  to  go  into  the  men's  washroom. 

8k 


ELISSA  LANDI  was  called  to  confer  with 
Winfield  Sheehan  at  the  studio  one  Sunday 
afternoon.  Sheehan  sent  his  Rolls-Royce  for 
her.  And,  although  the  gateman  recognized 
the  car,  he  wouldn't  let  Elissa  through  the 
gates  of  her  own  studio.  Getting  a  pass  kept 
Sheehan  waiting  for  her  for  twenty  minutes. 

A  half  hour's  time,  costing  thousands  of 
dollars  to  a  production,  was  wasted  because 
somebody  forgot  to  give  John  Halliday,  who 
was  needed  immediately  for  a  scene,  a  pass. 

And  then  there's  the  one  about  the  publicity 
executive  who  couldn't  go  home  one  afternoon 
because  he  had  forgotten  his  pass  and  the  gate- 
man  wouldn't  let  him  out. 

IF  you  have  been  watching  Frances  Dee  you 
will  be  amazed  at  the  development  of  the  girl 
in  "An  American  Tragedy."  Here  was  a  young 
player  who  was  supposed  to  be  a  somewhat 
colorless  screen  personality,  and  when  Von 
Sternberg  asked  that  she  be  cast  in  "An 
American  Tragedy"  there  was  much  lifting  of 
eyebrows  around  the  studio.  They  felt  he  was 
making  a  mistake  and  that  the  character  called 
for  a  sex-appeal  that  Frances  did  not  possess. 
Josef  Von  Sternberg,  who  used  to  be  Joe 
Stern — a  very  good  cameraman — proved  that 
he  could  do  with  Frances  what  he  did  with 
Marlene  Dietrich,  directorially.  Marlene,  by 
the  way,  was  no  great  shakes  as  a  sex-appealer 
in  her  German  pictures.  It  looks  as  though  that 
lad  could  take  Edna  May  Oliver  and  have  the 
boys  twittering. 

WE  asked  Buddy  Rogers  if  he  had  any 
news.  "How  can  I?"  he  answered.  "My 
girl  married  Stu  Erwin  so  there's  nothing  left 
for  me."  Why,  June,  how  could  you  leave 
Buddy  flat  like  that?  Well,  maybe  you're 
right.    Stu  is  a  great  guy,  too. 


A  LL  the  stars  want  Clark  Gable  for  their 
•*  Heading  man.  Norma  Shearer,  Joan  Craw- 
ford and  even  the  imperial  Garbo  are  squab- 
bling over  his  flicker  services.  .  .  .  Ronald 
Colman  is  mad  at  his  boss  Sam  Goldwyn  be- 
cause Sam  calls  him  to  make  screen  tests  with 
unknown  actresses.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Earle  Williams 
— wife  of  the  late  star — killed  herself,  her  two 
children  and  her  eighty-year-old  mother  in  San 
Francisco  recently.  Her  poverty  and  the  fear 
she'd  be  arrested  as  a  forger  were,  no  doubt,  the 
reasons.  .  .  .  Pola  Negri,  who  has  been  Gloria 
Swanson's  rival  for  all  these  years  and  years,  is 
occupying  the  dressing  room  built  for  Gloria  on 
the  Pathe  lot.  ...  In  Paris,  Nita  Naldi  rides 
around  in  the  longest  automobile  on  the 
Champs  Elysec.  .  .  .  Jetta  Goudal  has  been 
wearing  those  1880  hats  for  the  last  six  years. 
Now  she's  in  style  again. 

[  PLEASE  TUEN  TO  PAGE  88  ] 


Acme 


Wouldn't  you  know  her  anywhere? 
Still  simply  dressed,  still  quiet  and  a 
bit  wistful,  Lillian  Gish  returns  to 
New  York  from  a  happy  summer 
spent  in  the  Old  World 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Only  this  IN  ail  IVlake-up 

makes  your  fingers  Sparkle  so  Irilliantly. . .  so  long 


Lovely  Women  in  the  8  Fashion  Cities  of  the  world 
prefer  Cutex  Liquid  Polish  .  .  .  "Makes  fingers  gay  as 
sparkling  gems, "  says  great  Beauty  Editor  of  Vienna 


BEAUTIFUL  OLD  VIENNA, 
gayest  city  in  the  world,  is 
famed  for  its  enchanting  women. 
And  this  romantic  city  is  one  of 
many  great  world  capitals  where 
lovely  ladies  pay  tribute  to  this 
new  nail  make-up  .  .  .  Cutex 
Liquid  Polish. 

"Chic  Viennese  women  adore 
it,"  says  Margarethe  Pordes,  fa- 
mous Beauty  Editor  of  the 
Wiener  Record  Mode.  "Cutex 
has  such  a  captivating  sparkle... 
yet  is  economical,  easy  to  use! 

"Smoothly,  evenly,  this  rosy 
shimmer  flows  over  our  nails.  A 
wave  of  the  hand  and  it's  dry  .  .  . 
brilliant  as  a  precious  gem.  1  hen 
.  .  .  for  days  our  nails  gleam  with- 
out dimming  .  .  .  our  polish  does 
not  crack,  peel  or  discolor. 

"We  believe  the  lustre  of  Cutex 
Liquid  Polish  lasts  so  unusually 


long  because  this  polish  contains 
no  perfume."  Perfume,  many 
women  have  found,  often  robs  a 
polish  of  its  enduring  brilliance, 
and  the  fragrance  itself  is  gone  in 
the  twinkling  of  an  eye. 

Slim  white  hands. . .  loveliest  in 
the  fashion  cities  of  the  world  .  . . 
are  cared  for  by  the  simple  Cutex 
method.  A  little  booklet  enclosed 
in  each  Cutex  package  explains 
this  simple  treatment  in  detail. 

Give  your  fingertips  a  quick 
Cutex  manicure  once  a  week. 
Then  a  few  minutes'  care  each 
day  will  keep  your  nails  flawless- 
ly lovely.  Just  push  back  the 
cuticle;  cleanse  the  nail  tips  and 
use  the  Nail  White — Pencil  or 
Cream.  Before  retiring,  use  Cu- 
tex Cuticle  Oil  or  Cream  to  soften 
the  cuticle. 

Northam  Warren  -New York  -London  •  Paris 

At  left — Six  lovely  tints — Natural, 
Rose,  Colorless  .  .  .  Coral,  Cardinal 
and  Garnet — each  one  a  crystal  film 
of  sparkling  and  long-lasting  beauty! 


Only  Cutex  Liquid  Polish  has 
ALL  these  advantages: 

1.  Dries  in  30  seconds. 

2.  Never  cracks,  peels,  turns  yellow  or  white. 

3.  Lasts  a  whole  week. 

4.  Sparkles  always  with  smart  lustre. 

5.  Comes  in  sturdy  bottles,  easy  to  open. 

Cutex  Manicure  Preparations  are  only  35(4. 
Cutex  Liquid  Polish  with  Remover,  50^. 
Cutex  Nail  White  Pencil  now  25^. 


"In  their  famous  cafes  .  .  .  at  their  favorite 
operas  and  as  gracious  hostesses  in  their  own 
homes  . . .  smart  women  0/  Vienna  wear  this  Amer- 
ican nail  make-up.  For  they  know  that  any  wo- 
man s  charm  is  increased  by  fingertips  that  glitter 
.  .  .jewel-like  .  .  .  with  every  gesture"  says  Mar- 
garethe Pordes,  enchanting  exponent  of  Beauty! 


C  u  tex  L  iq  u  id  Po  lis  It 

Tips  the  fingers  with   romance  .  .  .  only   35^ 


I  enclose  \i$-  for  the  Cutex  Manicure  Set  containing 
sufficient  preparations  for  six  complete  manicures. 
(In  Canada,  address  Post  Office  Box  :,;:o,  Montreal,  i 

Northam  Warren,  Dept.  I  Q  10 
191  Hudson  Street New  York,  N.  Y. 


Questions 
Answers 

Read  This  Before  Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call  for  unduly  long  answers,  such  as  synopses 
of  plays.  Do  not  inquire  concerning  religion,  scenario  writing,  or 
studio  employment.  Write  on  only  one  side  of  the  paper.  Sign  your  full 
name  and  address.  If  you  want  a  personal  reply,  enclose  a  stamped, 
self-addressed  envelope. 


Casts  and  Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much  space,  we  treat  such  subjects  in  a  different 
way  from  other  questions.  For  this  kind  of  information,  a  stamped, 
self-addressed  envelope  must  always  hi  sent.  Address  all  inquiries  to 
Questions  and  Answers,  Photoplay  Magazine,  221  \Y.  57th  St., 
New  York  City. 


Sylvia    Sidney    and    Phillips    Holmes    aren't 

really  rushing  the  winter  season.    This  scene 

is  from  "Confessions  of  a  Co-Ed,"  their  first 

talkie  together 


PHILLIPS  HOLMES  and  SYLVIA  SID- 
NEY share  top  honors  in  this  month's 
batch  of  "please  tell  me"  letters.  Phil  and 
Sylvia  played  together  in  "Confessions  of  a 
Co-Ed"  and  "An  American  Tragedy,"  and 
audiences  are  clamoring  for  more  pictures  of 
this    new    team. 

Phillips  was  born  in  Grand  Rapids,  Mich., 
July  22,  1909.  He  received  his  early  educa- 
tion in  Grand  Rapids  and  New  York.  Later 
he  attended  Trinity  College,  in  England,  and 
Princeton  University,  in  New  Jersey.  When 
"Buddy"  Rogers  went  to  Princeton  to  make  a 
picture  titled  "Varsity,"  Phil  was  given  a 
part  in  it.  He  headed  for  Hollywood  and, 
after  some  stormy  experiences,  made  good  in 
pictures.  He  is  the  son  of  Taylor  Holmes, 
well-known  stage  and  screen  actor. 

Sylvia  is  a  product  of  New  York  City.  She 
was  born  Aug.  8,  1910.  After  leaving  the 
Washington  Irving  High  School  she  began 
her  stage  work,  appearing  in  a  number  of 
successful  plays.  The  Fox  company  gave  her 
a  start  in  talkies,  assigning  her  the  role  of 
Valeric  Briand,  in  "Thru  Different  Eyes." 

With  no  other  screen  engagements  open, 
Sylvia  returned  East  to  the  stage  and  appeared 
in  "Crime,"  in  the  cast  of  which  were  also 
Chester  Morris,  Robert  Montgomery,  Kay 
Francis  and  Kay  Johnson.  Paramount 
brought  Sylvia  back  to  Hollywood.  Samuel 
Goldwyn  borrowed  her  for  the  lead  in  "Street 
Scene,"  which  was  recently  completed. 

Susan  Phillips,  Lookout  Mt.,  Tenn. — 
Bela  Lugosi,  of  "Dracula"  fame,  left  his  home 
in  Hungary  in  1921  to  come  to  America.  Now 
he  likes  this  country  so  well  that  he  has 
decided  to  stay  here  and  has  become  an 
American  citizen.    He  entered  pictures  in  1925. 

86 


His   latest    is   "The   Black 
Camel"  for  Fox. 


Jeanne  Sommers, 
Irvi\tgton,  N.  J. — Jeanne, 
you're  not  the  only  one 
who  thinks  that  David 
Manners  is  a  boy  with  a 
future.  Dave  was  born  in 
Halifax,  Nova  Scotia,  April 
30,  1902,  and  christened 
Rauff  Acklom.  He  attend- 
ed the  University  of  Toron- 
to and  later  decided  to  try 
the  stage,  appearing  in  "He  Who  Gets  Slapped , " 
"Dancing  Mothers,"  and  "The  Witch."  Like 
many  other  stage  stars  he  tried  the  talkies  and 
made  a  favorable  impression  in  his  first  picture, 
"Journey's  End."  He  is  under  contract  to 
Warners  and  will  play  opposite  Marian  Marsh 
in  "Beauty  and  the  Boss,"  the  $2,000  prize 
story  in  the  PHOTOPLAY-Warner  Bros,  contest. 
Dave  is  married  to  Suzanne  Bushnell. 

Mary  Katherine  Hurre,  Kirkwood, 
Mo. — Barbara  Stanwyck  is  26;  Clark  Gable  is 
30;  Robert  Montgomery  and  Norma  Shearer 
are  each  27;  Dorothy  Jordan  is  21  and  Lew 
Ayres  will  be  22  in  December. 

Janice  Altshuler,  Easton,  Penna. — The 
little  scallawags  who  make  up  "Our  Gang"  are 
"Spud,"  known  in  private  life  as  Sherwood 
Bailey,  Jr.;  Norman  "Chubby"  Chaney,  the 
miniature  Graf  Zeppelin;  Dorothy  DeBorba, 
the  curly-headed  leading  lady;  "Wheezer," 
who  is  really  Bobby  Hutchins,  the  baby  of  the 
"Gang";  "Stymie,"  the  small  black  dot  whose 
real  name  is  Mathew  Beard,  and  "Pete"  the 
pup. 

M.  Hagenberg,  The  Hague,  Holland — 
At  this  writing  the  Gary  Cooper-Lupe  Velez 
romance  is  as  cool  as  an  ice  berg.  Charles 
Morton's  last  picture  was  "The  Dawn  Trail." 

A  Fan,  New  Haven,  Conn. — You're  about 
the  nth  thousandth  person  who  has  written  in 
suggesting  that  Clark  Gable  be  cast  in  a  talkie 
version  of  "The  Sheik."  Wonder  what 
Valentino  would  say! 

Fay  Bennett,  Cooke ville,  Tenn. — Bob 
Montgomery  was  born  in  Beacon,  N.  Y.,  27 


years  ago.  He  is  6  feet  tall,  weighs  160  and  has 
brown  hair  and  blue  eyes.  Is  married  to 
Elizabeth  Allen  and  has  one  young  daughter, 
named  Martha. 

Al  Washington,  Detroit,  Mich. — David 
Manners  did  not  appear  in  "Tol'able  David." 
Richard  Cromwell  was  the  lad  who  played  the 
role  of  David. 

Lucy  Linder  Pope,  Manchester,  Mass.— 
Lucy,  I  don't  blame  you  a  bit  for  getting  all 
mixed  up.  The  title  of  the  stage  play  was 
"Let's  Play  King."  When  Paramount  started 
out  to  make  it  into  a  movie,  they  used  the 
original  title.  Some  one  suggested  "Newly 
Rich"  and  that  became  the  second  title,  and 
the  one  used  in  its  opening  in  New  York.  A 
little  later  "Forbidden  Adventure"  was  sug- 
gested and  accepted.  The  picture  is  now 
liable  to  turn  up  under  any  one  of  these  titles. 
Memorize  the  titles,  unless  you  want  to  see  the 
picture  twice. 

Robert  Williams,  River  Forest,  III. — 
Jean  Harlow,  the  platinum-topped  siren  of 
"Hell's  Angels,"  made  her  debut  into  this 
world  on  March  3,  1911,  in  Kansas  City, 
Mo.  Her  real  name  is  Harlene  Carpenter. 
She  married  Charles  McGrew  in  September, 
1927,  and  divorced  him  in  January,  1931. 

J.  C.  S.,  East  Hartford,  Conn. — Irene 
Dunne  was  married  to  Dr.  F.  D.  Griffin,  in 
New  York  City,  July  16,  1928.  Her  latest 
picture  is  "The  Great  Lover,"  with  Adolphe 
Menjou  and  Neil  Hamilton. 

Mildred  Clement,  Sandwich,  Ont. — 
You're  wrong,  Mildred.  Norma  Shearer 
never  used  the  name  of  Stein.  Shearer  is  her 
real  name  and  she  hails  from  Montreal  where 
she  was  born  Aug.  10,  1904.  She  is  5  feet,  3; 
weighs  112,  and  has  medium  brown  hair  and 
blue  eyes.  Received  her  education  at  the 
Westmount  High  School.  Entered  pictures  in 
1921.  On  Sept.  29,  1927,  she  married  Irving 
Thalberg.    A  son  was  born,  Aug.  24,  1930. 

Blondie,  Natchez,  Miss. — Eddie  Woods  is 
the  lad  who  played  the  role  of  Tommy's 
confederate  in  "The  Public  Enemy."  He  was 
appearing  on  the  stage  in  "The  Last  Mile" 
when  he  got  an  offer  to  go  into  the  movies. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


66 


rap/,  o and  uwefxj  /tin .  oOnA  ol©ve 


8? 


99 


MY    MA\\K<|II\.    SAYS    FRANCES    INGRAM,    SHOWS    WHY 

Onlu  a  liealtlui  J  kin  can  Jtau  uouna 


the  forehead  —  To  guard  against  lines 
and  wrinkles  here,  apply  Milkweed  Cream, 
stroking  with  fingertips,  outward  from  the 
center  of  brow. 

the  eyes  —  To  avoid  aging  crows'  feet, 
smooth  Ingram's  about  the  eyes,  stroke  with 
a  feather  touch  outward  over  brow  and  in- 
ward under  lower  lids. 


the  mouth  —  Drooping  lines  are  easily  de- 
feated by  placing  thumbs  under  the  chin  and 
stroking  with  index  fingers  upward  and  out- 
ward toward  the  ears. 


the  throat  —  To  keep  your  throat  from 
fiabbiness,  cover  generously  with  Milkweed, 
and  from  the  hollow  at  the  base,  stroke  up- 
ward toward  the  chin. 

the  neck  and  chin  —  To  prevent  a  sag- 
ging chin,  stroke  with  fingertips  from  under 
the  chin  outward,  under  the  jawbone,  to- 
ward the  ears.  Then  pat  firmly  under  the 
chin  and  along  the  jaw  contours. 

the  shoulders  —  To  have  shoulders  that 
are  blemish-free  and  firmly  smooth,  massage 
with  palm  of  hand  in  rotary  motion  with 
plenty  of  cream. 


I\(.U  A  >1 


nlif tti>€eck  Cpeam 


by  Francos  Ingram 

Even  at  Palm  Springs,  where  there  arc 
so  many  smart  women,  you  watched 
for  her.  She  was  so  vibrantly  alive. 

I  was  looking  at  the  desert  stars  one 
night  when  she  sat  down  and  began  to 
talk.  Before  we  went  in  I  knew  a  lot 
about  her — especially  that  she  had  an 
inferiority  complex  about  men! 

"I've  spent  weeks,  and  hundreds  of 
dollars,  with  beauty  specialists.  But  I 
shy  off  whenever  a  man  gets  close 
enough  really  to  see  how  terrible  my 
skin  is  .  .  .  Yours  is  lovely.  So  clear — and 
smooth.  Not  even  one  tiny  line  .  .  ." 

The  next  day  I  showed  her  how  to 
use  Milkweed  Cream — and  only  a  few 
weeks  ago  she  came  to  see  me  in  New 
York,  with  her  very  new  husband.  She 
was  just  as  smart  as  ever — but  so  much 
lovelier  looking,  with  her  skin  as  soft 
and  unblemished  as  a  child's.  I  couldn't 
help  taking  some  credit  for  that! 

It's  so  simple — so  easy — my  starred 
method  of  caring  for  the  skin,  at  home. 
Keep  your  skin  deeply  clean  with  Milk- 
weed Cream,  which  is  first  of  all  a 
marvelous  cleansing  cream.  Then,  follow 
the  instructions  given  on  this  page. 

And  won't  you  listen  in  on  my  radio 
program,  "Through  the  looking-glass 
with  Frances  Ingram,"  Tuesday  morn- 
ings at  10:15  E.D.S.T.,  over  WJZ  and 
associated  N.B.C.  stations? 


MY     INTRODUCTORY     TUBE     AND    MY 
BEAUTY    BOOKLET    WILL   DELIGHT    YOU 

FRANCES  INGRAM,  Dept.  A-101 

108  Washington  Street,  New  York 

D  Please  send  me  your  introductory  Milkweed 

Cream  treatment  and  your  booklet,  "Why  Only  a 

Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young."   I  enclose  4  cents 

in  stamps  to  cover  cost  of  mailing. 

□   Please  send  me  your  booklet,  "Why  Only  a 

Healthy  Skin  Can  Stay  Young,"  which  is  free. 


Strtet— 
City — 


State- 


Cal   York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  84  ] 


ANN  HARDING  had  a  birthday.  Husband 
Harry  Bannister  outdid  himself  on  the 
presents  which  included  a  little  house  built 
near  the  tennis  court,  a  theater  seating  forty 
people,  a  "whoopee"  room  in  green  and,  there- 
fore, christened  "The  Green  Room,"  with  ping- 
pong  tables,  billiards  and  even  a  bowling 
alley. 

T_JARRY  BANNISTER  was  stopped  on  the 
*■  -"-street  a  few  nights  ago  by  a  lady  who  was 
carrying  a  huge  black  Persian  cat.  She  told 
him  how  much  she  liked  him  in  pictures  and 
he,  meanwhile,  admired  the  cat. 

"My  wife  is  very  anxious  to  get  a  black  cat, ' ' 
he  told  her. 

"Then  take  it,"  the  woman  said,  pushing 
the  cat  into  his  arms.  "I  am  going  to  leave 
town  tomorrow  and  I've  been  worried  over 
the  cat.  I  know  he'll  have  a  good  home  with 
Ann  Harding." 

And  so  Satan,  as  he  has  been  christened,  has 
a  nice  home  with  Ann's  two  dogs,  Prince  and 
Whoopee. 

MALEBU'S  Laugh-of-the-Season : 
Word  has  been  passed  about 
the  beach  colony  asking  everyone  to 
keep  a  lookout  for  a  piece  of  gold 
bridgework,  containing  three  pearly 
false  teeth. 

One  of  the  prettiest  actress-mem- 
bers of  the  community  lost  it  when 
a  heavy  wave  hit  her. 

Who? 

That's  the  laugh— it's  being  kept 
secret. 


WHAT  a  shower  they  threw  for  Bebe 
Daniels !  For  weeks  her  friends  ransacked 
the  baby  shops  of  Hollywood,  New  York  and 
Paris  and  if  they  try  to  use  all  the  presents 
they  will  have  to  add  another  room  to  their 
house  to  hold  the  clothes.  All  the  anticipated 
garments  are  being  initialed  B.L.  Ben  if  it's 
a  boy  and  Barbara  if  it's  a  girl. 

TMAGINE  Dorothy  Mackaill's  embarrass- 
-*-ment,  when  she  and  a  party  of  film  folk 
were  well  at  sea  on  the  beginning  of  a  four- 
day-long  week  end  yacht  trip  aboard  Howard 
Hughes'  palatial  yacht,  to  find  that  none  of 
her  luggage  had  been  brought  aboard. 

And  that  she  hadn't  an  article  of  clothing  or 
other  necessities  save  the  one  dress  she  was 
wearing! 

And  that  her  new  suitor,  Neil  Miller,  the 
youthful  crooner  and  scion  of  wealth  from 
Honolulu,  was  along. 

The  difficulty  was  solved  by  the  other  girls 
on  the  party.  They  loaned  Dorothy  dresses, 
powder,  perfume,  cosmetics,  underpinkies, 
nighties,  and  even  a  bathing  suit. 

OLORIA  SWANSON'S  three  ex-hubbies— 
^-'Wallace  Beery,  Herb  Somborn  and  the 
Marquis  Henri  de  la  Falaise — all  ,went  swim- 
ming together  at  Malibu,  before  the  Marquis 
left  for  Europe.  .  .  .  Lilyan  Tashman  does 
not  wear  flowers  with  formal  evening  dress. 
.  .  .  Whenever  Bill  Powell  is  missing  from  a 
party  he's  attending,  the  wise  ones  look  for 
him  in  nearby  bathtubs.  .  .  .  There's  a  horse- 
shoe-pitching ground  right  in  Hollywood.  .  . 
and  a  horse  drinking-trough  in  the  middle  of 


town  on  Hollywood  Boulevard  .  .  .  Edwina 
Booth  can't  get  sunburned  because,  as  a  result 
of  her  illness  on  the  "Trader  Horn"  trip  to 
Africa,  she  can't  risk  sun  exposure.  .  .  .  And 
IS  Marie  Prevost  putting  on  the  pounds!  .  .  . 
After  he  helped  save  Follies  girls  from  his 
burning  yacht,  Harry  Richman  got  a  telegram 
from  Clara  Bow:  "My  hero  I  am  proud  of 
you."  .  .  .  Director  Mel  Brown  is  saving  a 
plaster  cast  from  his  broken  ankle  because 
film  stars  autographed  it  and  he  thinks  it  will 
be  valuable  some  day.  .  .  .  Frederic  Girnau, 
who  published  an  obscene  scandal  sheet  attack 
on  Clara  Bow,  got  eight  years  in  Federal  pen 
and  $1,000  fine.  .  .  .  Madge  Evans,  who  is 
rapidly  soaring  to  renewed  film  heights,  was 
the  original  model  for  the  "Have  You  a  Little 
Fairy  In  Your  Home?"  soap  ads. 

VWINFIELD  R.  SHEEHAN,  head  man  of 
W  Fox  Studio,  recently  gave  the  Bellevue 
Hospital  for  Nervous  Diseases  a  full  screen 
and  sound  projection  outfit.  Dr.  M.  S.  Greg- 
ory, head  of  the  hospital,  and  one  of  the  world's 
most  famous  specialists  on  nervous  troubles  is 
going  to  experiment  with  the  effects  of  movies 
on  his  patients. 

T3  0NALD  COLMAN  has  walked  out  on 
-•-VMalibu.  "No  privacy,"  is  his  plaint.  He 
spends  his  summer  spare  time  now  at  the 
ritzy  Biltmore  Hotel  at  Santa  Barbara,  in- 
stead of  his  Malibu  house,  flanked  on  each  side 
by  other  screen  folks'  houses  so  close  Ronald 
could  reach  out  of  his  own  window  and  into 
his  neighbors',  if  he  wanted  to.    He  didn't. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  92  ] 


Here  is  the  1931  crop  of  Baby  Stars,  chosen  by  the  Wampas  (Motion  picture  press  agents).  Every  year  studio 
politics  and  studio  jealousies  have  entered  into  the  affair,  and  this  year  was  no  exception.  This  may  be  the  last 
Wampas  list.  Lined  up  like  this,  don't  they  look  more  like  the  graduation  class  of  any  local  high  than  a  group  of 
beautiful,  hard  working  girls  with  a  chance  of  world  fame  and  fortune?  From  left  to  right  they  are :  Constance  Cum- 
mings,  Frances  Dade,  Sidney  Fox,  Anita  Louise,  Frances  Dee,  Judith  Wood,  Rochelle  Hudson,  Joan  Marsh,  Karen 
Morley,  Marian  Marsh,  Marian  Shilling  and  Barbara  Weeks.     Joan  Blondell,  also  a  Wampas  baby,  does  not 

appear  in  this  picture 


88 


Photoplay  Magazink  for  October,  1931 


89 


JHoaeli 


incf 


6 


mastewLeces 


rp, 


Okinner's  Silks  combine  the  perfect  textute  and 
draping  qualities  needed  to  visualize  and  appre- 
ciate  a  new  model  long  before  the  lines  of  the 
dress  ire  actually  completed."  .   .  .   Adrian 


J.N  chis  modern  age  of  graceful,  smartly- 
gowned  women — at  Hollywood  and  else- 
where— Skinner's  Silks  play  a  leading  role, 
just  as  they've  done  ever  since  1848. 
You  can  have  whatever  fabric  you  prefer — 
satins,  crepes,  georgettes,  or  chiffons — in 
fascinating  color  range,  all  with  the  name 
Skinner  in  the  selvage  denoting  quality. 
The  rich  Skinner  black,  the  lovely  white 
and  brilliant  tones  provide  wonderful  op- 
portunity for  the  fall  and  winter  modes. 

WILLIAM  SKINNER  &  SONS 

New  York    Chicago    Boston    Philadelphia   San  Francisco 

Mills,  Holyoke.  Mass.  Established  1848 

Skinner's 


Silk 


Obtainable  by  the  yard  at  leading  silk  departments. 

Also   in  ready-to-wear  dresses  and  ensembles  at 

smart  shops. 

"LOOK  FOR  THE  NAME  IN  THE  SELVAGE1' 


9° 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Tantcc 


Approved 

BY  WORLD'S  GREATEST 
FASHION  AUTHORITIES 


HARPER'S  BAZAAR,  famous 
NEW  YORK  magazine,  says: 
"Natural  color  is  the  mode  of 
the  moment.  The  rouge  and 
lipstick  which  blend  into  the 
natural  flesh  tones  are  the  ones 
which  flatter  all  types  alike, 
and  which  fit  most  perfectly 
into  the  fashion  picture  of  1931. 
This  is  precisely  what  the 
Tangee  preparations  do." 

JARDIN  DES  MODES,  of  PARIS,  greatest 
French  fashion  magazine,  says:  "Flashy, 
glaring  lips  can  ruin  the  prettiest  and  most 
expensive  ensemble.  The  Fashion  this  season 
is  individual,  romantic  and  feminine.  Tangee 
well  answers  these  requirements,  because  it 
blends  with  your  natural  coloring."  © 

TATLER,/amows  LONDON  authority, adds: 
"Tangee  gives  to  your  lips  the  lovely  glow 
of  youth,  so  rich  in  color  and  yet  so  natural 
that  it  cannot  be  told  from  Nature's  own." 

Tangee,  the  world's  most  famous  Lipstick, 
$1.  Natural!  Permanent!  Non-Greasy! 
Same  Tangee  Color  Principle  in 


SEND  101  FOR  TANGEE  BEAUTY  SET 


•  Containing  miniature  Lipstick,    Powder, 
two  Rouges,  and  "The  Art  of  Make-up." 
The  George  W.  Luft  Co.,  Dept.  P  8 
417  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 

Name 

A  d dress 


Screen    Memories    From    Photoplay 

15  Years  Ago 


Theda 
Bara 


T\  7ITH  a  forlorn  in- 
**  dignation  we  asked 
editorially:  Aren't  you 
tired  of  trash?  Of  come- 
dies without  a  glint  of 
humor?  Of  dramas  with- 
out a  gleam  of  originality? 
Of  love  stories  that 
haven't  a  semblance  of 
humanity  ? 

And  concluded,  in  a 
bombastic  furioso  finale,  "the  ailment  of  the 
industry  is  feverish  over-production!"  That 
was  15  years  ago.  Seems  we've  been  hear- 
ing the  same  thing  for  the  last  six  months. 
And  the  last  six  years! 

Without  any  warning  whatsoever,  Theda 
Bara,  then  screen  siren  supreme,  went  prac- 
tically sweet  and  pure  in  the  role  of  Cigarette  in 
"Under  Two  Flags."  Our  reviewer,  comment- 
ing on  her  performance,  said:  "Her  timid 
lovemaking  carried  as  much  conviction  as 
though  performed  by  Marguerite  Clark." 

Olga  Petrova,  the  Perilous  Pole  of  her  era, 
became,  for  purposes  of  cur  interviewer,  "Our 


Lady  of  Troubles,"  because  she  enjoyed  play- 
ing unhappy  roles  on  the  screen. 

The  fifth  chapter  of  D.  W.  Griffith's  life 
story  told  of  the  making  of  the  "Birth  of  a 
Nation." 

In  the  gallery  were  pictures  of  Camille 
Astor,  Irene  Fenwick,  Pedro  De  Cordoba, 
Henry  B.  Walthall,  Annette  Kellerman, 
Norma  Talmadge,  Betty  Schade  and  Adda 
Gleason. 

Pictures  reviewed  included:  "Honor  Thy 
Name,"  with  Frank  Keenan,  Louise  Glaum 
and  Charlie  Ray;  "The  Half  Breed,"  with 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Alma  Rubens  and  Jewel 
Carmen;  "The  Woman  in  the  Case,"  with 
Pauline  Frederick;  "The  Dream  Girl,"  with 
Mae  Murray;  "Hulda  from  Holland,"  with 
Mary  Pickford,  and  "The  Daring  of  Diana," 
with  Anita  Stewart. 

Cal  York  items:  Thomas  Meighan  has 
temporarily  forsaken  the  screen  to  appear  in 
stock  with  his  wife,  Frances  Ring  .  .  .  Dorothy 
Dalton  was  awarded  her  divorce  decree  from 
Lewis  J.  Cody,  heavy  in  Mabel  Normand's 
company. 


io  Years  Ago 


O; 


,NE    of    the    loveliest 
romances  of  Holly- 
wood  culminated   in   the 
happy  announcement  that 
Alice  Terry  and  Rex  In- 
gram were  to  be  married. 
"Probably  in  New  York 
or  in  Europe,"  Rex,  who  is 
Irish  and  superstitious, 
told  Cal  York.    "There's 
no  luck  in  Hollywood 
marriages.     They  don't  last." 

Well,  Rex  evidently  knew,  for  he  and  Alice 
are  still  married  and  happier  than  ever  in 
their  Nice,  France,  villa. 

Ralph  Barton  compiled  and  illustrated  a 
set  of  "vital  statistics"  of  the  past  film  year. 
One  of  the  most  vital  was:  "The  amount  of 
energy  expended  in  1920  by  wealthy  villains 
in  luring  pure  and  innocent  working  girls  to 
their  luxurious  bachelor  apartments  would  be 
sufficient  to  hoist  the  New  York  Public 
Library  thirty-one  feet  from  its  foundation." 
Ralph  had  a  lot  of  fun  all  through  the  issue. 
On  another  page  he  drew  a  picture  of  Lon 


Chaney  as  Svcngali  and  wrote:  "Lon  Chaney 
is  the  easiest  man  on  earth  to  draw.  If  the 
sketch  doesn't  look  like  him  he  will  deftly 
make  up  to  look  like  the  sketch.  You  can't 
go  wrong." 

The  famous  Carmcns  of  opera  and  the  screen 
were  pictured:  Calve,  Theda  Bara,  Mary 
Garden,  Marguerite  Sylva,  Geraldine  Farrar, 
and  Pola  Negri,  who  was  the  latest  to  join 
this  distinguished  company. 

Agnes  Ayres  was  the  girl  on  the  cover. 

In  the  gallery  were  pictures  of  Pauline 
Starke,  Betty  Blythe,  Marshall  Neilan, 
Shannon  Day,  Gladys  Coburn,  Corinne  Griffith 
and  Norman  Kerry. 

Pictures  reviewed  included:  "Peter  Ibbet- 
son,"  with  Elsie  Ferguson  and  Wally  Reid; 
"The  Sign  on  the  Door,"  with  Norma  Tal- 
madge and  Lew  Cody;  "Among  Those 
Present,"  with  Harold  Lloyd;  "The  Conquest 
of  Canaan,"  with  Thomas  Meighan  and  Doris 
Kenyon,  and  "The  Inner  Chamber,"  with 
Alice  Joyce  and  Pedro  De  Cordoba. 

Cal  York  item:  Pearl  White  has  secured 
her  divorce  from  Wallace  McCutcheon. 


5  Years  Ago 


John 
Barrymore 


THIS  month  we 
recorded  two  epochal 
episodes  in  the  history  of 
the  screen:  The  tragic,  un- 
timely death  of  Rudolph 
Valentino,  and  the  com- 
ing of  sound! 

It  was  the  passing  of 
the  old  order  and  the  com- 
ing of   the   new.     Some- 


how, looking  backward,  it 
seems  more  than  a  coincidence  that  these 
revolutionary  events  should  have  met  head-on. 

"Bringing  Sound  to  the  Screen,"  told  of  the 
Vitaphone  demonstration  in  connection  with 
the  showing  of  John  Barrymore's  "Don  Juan." 
It  was  actually  a  musical  accompaniment  for 
the  picture,  which  was  silent. 

We  had  some  of  Hollywood's  married  folk 
tell  us  "How  They  Popped  the  Question." 
Estelle  Taylor  told  how  Jack  Dempsey  pro- 
posed; Bill  Boyd  how  he  wooed  and  won 
Elinor  Fair;  Eddie  Sutherland  how  he  cap- 
tured Louise  Brooks,  and  Gloria  Swanson  ad- 
mitted  the  Marquis  said  it  in   English. 


Since  then  they've  all  told  different  versions 
to  a  judge. 

In  the  gallery  were  pictures  of  Seena  Owen, 
Olive  Borden,  Mav  Allison,  Monte  Blue, 
Ronald  Colman,  Phyllis  Haver  and  Janet 
Gaynor. 

"The  Son  of  the  Sheik,"  Valentino's  last 
picture  and  the  one  that  had  taken  him  to 
New  York  for  its  premier  and  his  last  illness, 
was  reviewed  in  The  Shadow  Stage.  "Lonj; 
will  this  picture  remain  in  the  memory  ol 
those  fortunate  enough  to  see  it,"  wrote  our 
reviewer. 

Other  pictures  reviewed  were:  "The  Scarlet 
Letter,"  with  Lillian  Gish;  "One  Minute  to 
Play,"  with  "Red"  Grange;  "Don  Juan," 
with  John  Barrymore  and  a  Vitaphone  musical 
accompaniment,  and  "Fine  Manners,"  with 
Gloria  Swanson  and  Eugene  O'Brien. 

Cal  York  items:  Dick  Arlen  and  Jobyna 
Ralston  have  announced  their  engagement 
.  .  .  Cecil  B.  De  Mille  is  still  trying  to  roun< 
up  the  Apostles  for  "King  of  Kings."  . 
Constance  Talmadge  and  her  hubby,  Alastai 
Mcintosh,  are  honeymooning  in  Scotland. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


91 


APPENDICITIS- 


Then  there  were  railroads,  and  steamships,  and 
the  telegraph  —  but  no  appendicitis  operations. 


There's 


No  Hope 


)> 


DOOMED  TO  DIE  because  he  had  ap- 
pendicitis! And  that  was  only  sixty 
years  ago — in  your  grandfather's  day. 
Then  there  were  railroads,  and  steam- 
ships, and  the  telegraph — but  no  appen- 
dicitis operations.  Doctors  scarcely  dared 
to  "open  a  person  up."  Surgery  was 
largely  confined  to  amputations  and  the 
treatment  of  wounds.  Operations  were 
more  feared  than  disease,  because  always 
the  spectre  of  infection  hovered  over  the 
surgeon's  scalpel. 

What  a  difference  today!  Now  the  re- 
moval of  an  appendix  is  almost  a  minor 
operation.  Surgeons  can  practically  re- 
build people.  All  because  infection  has 
been  conquered,  because  it  was  dis- 
covered that  disease  and  infection  are 
caused  by  germs — and  that  germs  can 
be  killed. 

Now  medical  science  wages  an  un- 
ceasing war  against  germs,  and  one  of 
its  most  important  and  effective  weapons 


is  "Lysol"  Disinfectant.  For  more  than 
forty  years,  this  efficient  germicide  has 
been  a  standby  of  doctors  and  hospitals 
the  world  over.  They  depend  on  it  even 
at  that  most  critical  time  of  all — child- 
birth— when  two  lives  are  at  stake, 
when  disinfection  must  be  safe  and 
thorough. 

"Lysol,"  when  diluted  according  to 
directions,  is  non-poisonous — yet  all 
recommended  dilutions  are  sure  germ- 
killers.  In  any  situation  in  your  own 
home  where  you  have  cause  for  doubt, 
play  safe — use  "Lysol."  Use  it  properly 
diluted  wherever  germs  are  apt  to  lurk — 
on  wounds,  cuts,  and  human  tissue;  in 
the  household,  on  telephones,  door- 
knobs, woodwork,  nursery  furniture, 
baby's  toys,  and  utensils. 

"Lysol"  is  the-  most  economical  dis- 
infectant in  the  world,  too.  Every  drop 
will  kill  200,000,000  bacteria.  A  table- 
spoonful  diluted  makes  four  quarts  of 


Doctors  and  hospitals  the  world  over  depend  on  "Lysol"  Disin'ectant  todac 


non-poisonous  disinfectant.  Get  a  large 
bottle  of  "Lysol"  from  your  druggist  to- 
day. Use  it  every  day  to  disinfect  while 
you  clean.  It  is  your  surest  safeguard 
against  sickness  and  infection.  Mean- 
while, write  for  "The  'Lysol'  Health 
Library"  of  three  free  booklets:  "Pro- 
tecting the  Home  Against  Disease," 
"Getting  Ready  for  Baby,"  and  "The 
Facts  About  Feminine  Hygiene."  Thou- 
sands of  women  have  found  them  in- 
valuable in  the  home.  Just  write:  Dept. 
45E,Lehn  &  Fink,  Inc.,  Bloomfield,  N.J. 

"LYSOL"  for  Feminine  Hygiene 

For  forty  years,  "Lysol"  Disinfectant  has 
been  the  standard  antiseptic  depended  upon 
for  feminine  hygiene  by  women  throughout 
the  world.  When  diluted  according  to  direc- 
tions it  is  absolutely  harmless  to  humans — 
yet  its  cleansing  and  disinfecting  action  is  so 
thorough  that  it  kills  harmful  germs  under 
conditions  that  render  many  preparations 
completely  ineffective. 

©  iq?l,  L.  &  F.,  Inc. 


Be  careful!  Counterfeits  of 
"Lysol"  are  beinc.  offered. 
Genuine  "I.yvol"  is  in  ibt 
brown  bottle  and  yellow 
carton    marked  "Lysol" 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PACK 


WHEN  Mrs.  Bancroft  wants  to  awaken 
big,  two-fisted  George  in  the  morning 
she  tickles  his  nose  with  a  sprig  of  orange 
blossoms.  .  .  .  Ethel  Barrymore  celebrated 
her  fifty-second  birthday.  .  .  .  Billy  Haines 
is  through  at  M-G-M.  .  .  .  Jack  Gilbert  is 
planning  a  trip  to  Europe — alone.  .  .  .  Greta 
Garbo  went  to  one  of  Hollywood's  art  theaters 
and  nobody  recognized  her.  .  .  .  Remember 
Marguerite  Clark?  Her  husband  Harry  B. 
Williams  will  run  for  Governor  of  Louisiana. 
.  .  .  Jeanette  Loff,  Lilian  Bond  and  Dorothy 
Knapp  are  all  in  a  New  York  stage  show.  .  .  . 
Even  in  hot  weather  Josef  Von  Sternberg 
wears  a  fur-lined  coat  and  a  beret.  .  .  .  Gary 
Cooper,  Sylvia  Sidney  and  Irving  Pichel  will 
play  the  parts  originally  acted  by  Thomas 
Meighan,  Betty  Compson  and  Lon  Chaney 
in  your  old  favorite  "The  Miracle  Man."  Is 
that  O.K.  with  you? 

rpHERE'S  a  red  hot  affair  on  in  Hollywood. 
■*-  Ina  Claire  has  been  seen  in  public  places 
and  at  parties  playing  backgammon  with 
Robert  Ames.  And  what's  worse,  they  play 
for  money.  One  of  Photoplay's  secret  service 
operatives  found  out  that  in  two  sessions  Ina 
won  $47. 

•"THE  Malibu  undertow — no,  my  dears,  the 

*-  one  in  the  water,  not  the  other! — almost 

cost  the  screen  one  of  its  most  vivid  stars  the 

other  day.    Evelyn  Brent,  swimming  far  out, 


got  into  trouble  with  it.  Two  successive  big 
waves  came  along  and  Evelyn  went  under. 

Her  husband,  Harry  Edwards,  without  tak- 
ing time  to  kick  off  his  flannels,  swam  out 
and  rescued  her.    Betty  was  ill  for  several  days. 

MALIBU"  isn't  the  whole  name 
of  the  cinema  stars'  beach  col- 
ony. The  whole  title  is  "Rancho 
Malibu  la  Costa."  And  Laura  La 
Plante  tops  it  by  calling  her  Malibu 
cottage:  "La  Costa  Plenty." 

TT ING  PRAJADHIPOK  of  Siam  has  bought 
•1-Mhree  talkie  projection  units  for  use  in  Siam. 
.  .  .  Thelma  Todd  is  going  to  become  Alison 
Lloyd  and  blame  a  numerologist  for  the 
change.  But  Hal  Roach,  Thelma's  comedy 
boss,  says  it  will  still  be  Thelma  Todd  on  his 
cast  lists.  .  .  .  Irene  Delroy,  injured  by  a  fall 
from  her  horse  in  Montreal  while  honeymoon- 
ing, says  she's  through  with  the  stage  and 
screen  forever  .  .  .  and  others  have  said  that 
before.  .  .  .  Building  wreckers  have  torn  down 
the  old  Mack  Sennett  studio  in  Los  Angeles, 
where  the  Keystone  Kops  became  famous.  .  .  . 
Warner  Baxter  plays  a  crafty  guitar.  .  .  . 
Hawaiian  hotel  owners  were  saved  from  the 
current  depression  by  the  sudden  popularity  of 
the  islands  among  screen  stars  this  summer. 
.  .  .  Howard  "Hell's  Angels"  Hughes  has  the 
swellest  yacht  in  movieland  ...  it  has  eight- 
een staterooms,  each  with  its  own  private  bath. 


Fifi  Dorsay  turned  down  a  $3,000  a  week  offer 
to  appear  in  Earl  Carroll's  Vanities  ...  it  is 
said  she  was  to  have  done  a  bathing  scene  bur- 
lesquing her  public  fountain  bath  in  Indiana- 
polis recently.  .  .  .  Carroll  goes  for  bathing 
stunts  yet. 

OYLVTA  SIDNEY  had  a  unique  experience 
''-'the  other  evening  when  she  attended  the  pre- 
view of  her  picture,  "Street  Scene,"  at  the 
United  Artists  projection  room.  She  could 
hear  her  voice  but  could  not  see  herself. 

Sylvia  rs  so  near-sighted  that  she  can  see  only 
a  few  feet  in  front  of  her.  And  only  that  day 
she  had  broken  her  glasses.  She  depended 
upon  Director  Mervyn  Le  Roy,  who  sat  next 
to  her,  to  describe  how  she  looked  in  the 
picture. 

PDNA  MAY  OLIVER  has  been  sniffing 
-'—'again — off  screen  this  time.  She  has  a 
gorgeous  house  in  Beverly  Hills.  Her  butler 
parked  his  little  Ford  in  front  of  it  every 
morning.  Miss  Oliver  didn't  like  that  so,  in 
her  haughtiest  manner,  she  told  him  to  remove 
the  blot  on  the  landscape.  He  asked  a  neighbor 
a  few  houses  away  if  he  could  park  in  front  of 
their  door. 

And  got  permission.  The  Ford  is  now  to  be 
seen  in  front  of  the  home  of  one  of  the  most 
famous  directors  and  his  famous  wife.  And 
they  don't  object  at  all. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  99  ] 


Stand  By,  Contest  Authors! 


ALL  of  you  anxious 
authors,  who  have 
been  impatiently 
pawing  the  ground  and 
champing  at  the  bit,  wait- 
ing to  know  the  winners  in 
the  82,000.00  Photoplay- 
Warner  Bros.  Story  Con- 
test won't  have  to  wait  much  longer.  The  winners  of  the  con- 
test to  find  a  story  to  fit  the  title  of  "Beauty  and  the  Boss" 
will  be  announced  next  month — in  the  November  issue  of 
Photoplay. 

The  judges  have  striven  to  give  you  this  announcement  as 
quickly  as  possible,  but  the  unusual  response  to  the  contest 
has  kept  the  readers  and  judges  going  at  top-speed  longer  than 
they  anticipated. 

Close  to  10,000  manu- 
scripts were  received  be- 
fore the  contest  closed  on 
July  15. 

Only  the  final  judging 
is  going  on  now,  and  the 
decisions  of  the  judges 
will  be  ready  for  you  next 
month. 

While  the  job  of  read- 
ing and  judging  this  great 
number  of  stories  has 
been  a  huge  one,  it  has 
not  been  unpleasant.  It 
has  been  interesting  to 
see  what  movie-goers 
themselves  have  written 
as  their  idea  of  a  good 
movie  plot — the  kind  of 
story  they  want  to  see 
enacted  on  the  screen. 


Winners  in  "Beauty  and  the 

Boss"  Contest  to  be  announced 

in  next  month's  issue 


There's  gold  in  them  thar  manuscripts — $2,000  for  every  story 
accepted.    Yours  may  be  among  them.    Next  month  will  tell 


Many,  of  course,  are  im- 
practical as  movie  stories. 
Many  aren't  stories  at  all. 
But  there  have  been  plenty 
with  fine  material,  and 
many  more  that  are  exceed- 
ingly well  written. 

In  several  instances  there 
have  been  stories  of  great  similarity  of  plot.  In  essentials  they 
are  the  same  as  others,  but  the  unusual  and  individual  treat- 
ment of  these  similar  themes  by  their  separate  authors  has 
made  them  all  interesting  and  all  worthy  of  individual  attention 
from  the  judges. 

Altogether,  the  contest  brought  a  great  response  and  showed 
a  lot  of  talent  and  imagination  from  the  contestants,  many  of 

whom  were  making  their 
maiden  voyage  on  the 
choppy  sea  of  literature. 
The  judges,  conscious 
of  the  care  and  hopeful- 
ness that  went  into  the 
writing  of  each  story  sub- 
mitted,  have  carefully 
read  and  considered 
every  story  that  was  re- 
ceived. 

Their  decisions  have 
been  arrived  at  only  after 
the  most  careful  deliber- 
ation and,  of  course,  are 
final. 

When  the  announce- 
ment of  the  results  of  the 
contest  is  made  next 
month  it  will  be  the  best 
story,  or  stories,  that 
have  won! 


92 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


93 


• 


After  all,  The  Wedding  itself  is  only  the  first  step  into  the  new 
fe.    The  days  that  follow  will  be  just  as  vital  to  your  happiness! 
That's  why  you  must  think  of  every  pre-wedding  purchase  in  terms 
of  the  years  to  come  ...  in  terms  of  enduring  values. 

And  that's  why  your  ring  should  be  a  Traub  .  .  .  that  it  may  last 
as  long  as  your  life  together.     For  Traub  rings  are  exquisite  in 
workmanship,  finished  in  every  detail.    They  are  seamless,  unbroken  circles, 
made  with  the  finest  metals,  and  gems  from  the  jewel-marts  of  the  world! 

What  sort  of  ring  looks  best  on  your  hand?  A  brilliant  circlet  of  square- 
cut  diamonds  .  .  .  one  engraved  in  platinum  ...  or,  perhaps,  a  simple  band 
;of  gold,  delicately  chased  with  Orange  Blossoms?  It's  wise  to  choose  the 
ring  that  best  expresses  your  personal  taste. 

So  ask  your  jeweler  to  show  you  his  best .  .  .  and  help  you  choose  your 
Traub!  Jewelry  shops  are  fascinating  places,  you'll  find  in  them  many  other 
ovely  things,  of  the  same  fine  character,  that  you'll  need  for  your  new  home. 

And  by  the  way,  because  the  wedding  is  the  important  first  step  .  .  .  send 
for  our  helpful  little  booklet  "Bridal  Etiquette."  It's  all  about  trousseaus, 
receptions,  ceremonies  .  .  .  and   it's  free!  Traub  Manufacturing  Company, 

1933     McGraw      Avenue,     Detroit, 
Michigan,   and    Walkerville,   Ontario. 

Loo\  for  this  mar\  on  every 
genuine  "Orange Blossom"  ring 


To  be  continued... 


I  I'll  II  I) 


*DE@MA 


Just  above — Iridio  platinum  matched  set .. .  studded  with  diamonds. 
Wedding  ring,  $45.00.  Engagement  ring,  $300.00.  At  top  left- 
Genuine  Orange  Blossom  wedding  ring,  hand-chasing  on  platinum 
from  $21.50  ...  on  gold  from  $10.  Remember,  there  is  a  Traub  ring 
to  fit  your  finger  .  .  .  and  your  pocketbook ! 


94 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


LOVELINESS 

asnd  tcy  lvo€cL 


OF  how  many  women  it  is  truly  said, 
that  they  might  have  been  lovely! 
Simply  because  they  let  poisons  in  the  body 
dull  their  beauty  and  destroy  their  youth! 

Keeping  clean  internally  is  the  most  im- 
portant beauty  treatment  in  the  world. 
Your  complexion,  the  clearness  of  your 
eyes,  your  charm  depend  on  it! 

But  you  can  have  internal  cleanliness — 
through  the  saline  way  with  Sal  Hepatica. 

In  Europe,  the  '  'saline  cure"  is  sought  by 
those  of  the  fashionable  world,  who  journey 
to  such  places  as  Carlsbad  and  Baden-Baden 
to  enjoy  its  benefits.  But  these  same  bene- 
fits can  be  yours  at  home.  For  Sal  Hepatica 
is  the  practical  American  equivalent  of 
these  famous  saline  springs. 

The  saline  treatment  corrects  constipa- 
tion, clears  the  bloodstream.  It  removes 
the  poisons  that  keep  you  lifeless,  suscep- 
tible to  colds,  dull-skinned  and  dull-eyed. 

Start  today  the  saline 
way  with  Sal  Hepatica 
to  beauty  and  to  charm. 

Write  Bristol-Myers  Co., 
Dept.  G-iot,  71  West  Street, 
New  York  City,  for  a  free 
booklet, "To  Clarice  in  Quest 
of  Her  Youth." 


^s? 


SAL    HEPATICA 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Adrienne  Amos 
Kichard  Arlen 
George  Bancroft 
(  arman  Barnes 
lil  anor  Boardman 
William  Boyd 
John  Breedon 
Chas.  D.  Brown 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Juliette  Complon 
Jackie  Coogan 
Robert  Coogan 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlene  Dietrich 
Claire  Dodd 
Tom  Douglas 
Junior  Durkin 
Stuart  Erwin 
Skeets  Gallagher 
Marjorie  Gateson 
Wynne  Gibson 
Mitzi  Green 


Phillips  Holmes 
Lenita  Lane 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Frances  Moffett 
Rosita  Moreno 
Jack  Oakie 
Vivienne  Osborne 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
Irving  Pichel 
Charles  Rogers 
Jackie  Searl 
Peggy  Shannon 
Sylvia  Sidney 
Lilyan  Tashman 
Kent  Taylor 
Regis  Toomey 
Dorothy  Tree 
Allen  Vincent 
Charles  Trowbridge 
Anna  Mav  Wong 
Judith  Wood 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Hardie  Albright 
John  Arledge 
Warner  Baxter 
loan  Bennett 
Id  Brendel 
Joan  Castle 
Paul  Cavanagh 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Roxannc  Curtis 
Jesse  DeVorska 
Donald  Dillaway 
Allan  Dinehart 
James  Dunn 
Sally  Eilers 
Charles  Farrell 
Janet  Gaynor 
Minna  Gombell 
William  Holden 
Olin  Howland 
Warren  Hymer 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
James  Kirkwood 
Flissa  Landi 
Nora  Lane 
Edmund  Lowe 
Myrna  Loy 
Jeanette  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 


Mae  Marsh 
Victor  McLaglen 
Thomas  Meighan 
Una  Merkel 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Ralph  Morgan 
Greta  Nissen 
George  O'Brien 
Sally  O'Neil 
Lawrence  O'Sullivan 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Cecelia  Parker 
William  Pawley 
Yvonne  Pelletier 
Gaylord  Pendleton 
Howard  Phillips 
Terrance  Ray 
Manya  Roberti 
Will  Rogers 
Peggy  Ross 
Rosalie  Roy 
George  E.  Stone 
James  Todd 
Spencer  Tracy 
Linda  Watkins 
Marjorie  White 
Charles  Williams 
Elda  Vokel 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Robert  Ames 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Evelyn  Brent 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Lita  Chevret 
Ricardo  Cortez 
Lily  Damita 
John  Darrow 
Claudia  Dell 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Jill  Esmond 
Noel  Francis 
Roberta  Gale 
Morgan  Galloway 
John  Halliday 
Hugh  Herbert 
Leyland  Hodgson 
Rochelle  Hudson 


Kitty  Kelly 
Geoffrey  Ker. 
Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Erie  Linden 
PhilIips"Seth  Parker' 

Lord 
Joel  McCrea 
Addie  McPhail 
Ken  Murray 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Lawrence  Olivier 
William  Post 
Lowell  Sherman 
Ned  Sparks 
Ruth  Weston 
Bert  Wheeler 
Hope  Williams 
Robert  Woolsey 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ina  Claire 
Ronald  Colman 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 


Al  Jolson 
Evelyn  Lave 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St. 


Eddie  Buzzell 
Richard  Cromwell 
Constance  Cummi  ngs 
Susan  Fleming 
Ralph  Graves 


Jack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Loretta  Sayers 
Barbara  Stanwyck 
Jolin  Wayne 


Universal  City,  Calif. 

Universal  Studios 


Lew  Ay  res 
John  Boles 
Lucile  Browne 
Bette  Davis 
Sidney  Fox 
Rose  Hobart 


Bela  Lugosi 
Slim  Summerville 
Sally  Sweet 
Genevieve  Tobin 
Lois  Wilson 


Culver  City,  Calif. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


Dorothy  Appleby 
Nils  Asther 
William  Bakewell 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Charles  Bickford 
Edwina  Booth 
Herbert  Braggiotti 
John  Mack  Brown 
Jackie  Cooper 
Joan  Crawford 
Janet  Currie 
Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Douglass 
Marie  Dressier 
Jimmy  Durante 
Cliff  Edwards 
Phyllis  Elgar 
Madge  Evans 
Clark  Gable 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
Charlotte  Greenwood 
William  Haines 
Neil  Hamilton 
Helen  Hayes 
Jean  Hersholt 
Hedda  Hopper 
Leslie  Howard 


Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Marjorie  King 
Alfred  Lunt  and 
Lynn  Fontanne 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Ray  Milland 
Robert  Montgomery 
Polly  Moran 
Karen  Morley 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Ivor  Novello 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita  Page 
Marie  Prevost 
Irene  Purcell 
Marjorie  Rambeau 
Rutli  Selwyn 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
C.  Aubrey  Smith 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Lester  Vail 
Robert  Young 


RKO-Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  Gleason 
Ann  Harding 
June  MacCloy 


Pola  Negri 
Mary  Nclan 
Eddie  Quillan 
Marion  Shilling 
Helen  Twelvetrees 
Robert  Williams 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 
Thelma  Todd 


Burbank,  Calif. 

Warners-First  National  Studios 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Richard  Barthelmess 
Joan  Blondell 
Lilian  Bond 
Joe  E.  Brown 
Anthony  Bushell 
Charles  Butterworth 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Bebe  Daniels 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Kav  Francis 
Ruth  Hall 
Ralf  Harolde 
Walter  Huston 


Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
Dorothy  Mackaill 
Mae  Madison 
David  Manners 
Marian  Marsh 
Marilyn  Miller 
Dorothv  Peterson 
William  Powell 
James  Rennie 
Edward  G.  Robinson 
Loretta  Young 
Polly  Walters 
Warren  William 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Tallulah  Bankhead 
George  Barbier 
Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Claudette  Colbert 
Tamara  Geva 


Miriam  Hopkins 
Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Gene  Raymond 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrett 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  Agnew,  635  7  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire,  1212  Gower  St. 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd,  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd 
Philippe  De  Lacy,  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Pat  O'Malley.  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St. 
Ruth  Roland,  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor,  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray,  22  E.  60th  St.,  New  York 

William  S.  Hart,  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsv    Ruth    Miller,    808    Crescent    Drive,    Beverly 

Hills.  Calif 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


95 


THEY  WHO 

FOLLOW 
THE  HOUNDS 

AND  THE 

NICETIES 
OF  LIFE 


V_^ritical  as  they  are 
of  good  form,  keenly  aware  of  the 
delicate  niceties  of  enjoyment,  it  is 
no  wonder  that  these  wearers  of  the 
pink  took  up  Spud  early.  In  Spud, 
they  found  not  only  the  sudden 
new  freedom  in  tobacco  enjoy- 
ment . . .  but  also  that  fresh  comfort- 
able sensation  of  being  continually 
"mouth -happy."  The  Axton- Fisher 
Tobacco  Co.,  Inc.,  Louisville,  Ky. 


SPUD 

MENTHOL-COOLED 

CIGARETTES 


20   FOR    20c    (U.S.) 20    FOR  30c    (CANADA) 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


THAT  WON'T  LIE 
DOWN  ON  THE  JOB 

See  and  feel  the  snap-back  of  Tek's 
Better  Bristles.  Grouped  where  they 
will  do  the  most  good — to  teeth  and 
guidis.  No  bristles  at  leisure  as  in 
old-fashioned  brushes — but  each  tuft 
pointed  for  action  at  every  stroke. 
Tek's  double  value  is  in  its  Better 
Shape  and  Better  Bristles  —  at  no 
extra  cost.  Tek  is  sterilized  and 
Cellophane -sealed  for  your  protec- 
tion. Tek  is  a  guaranteed  product  of 


Uowwn*»/lolWm 


the   modern 

TOOTH  BRUSH 


Girls'  Problems 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  16 


You  will  walk  gracefully,  with  chin  up.  You 
won't  rush  in  and  out  of  rooms;  it  would  seem 
too  silly  with  your  dresses  looking  so  lady-like. 
That  word  again,  you  see.  And  you  won't  sit 
down  in  poses  resembling  your  small  brother  or 
sister.  You  will  want  to  live  up  to  your  looks. 
And  when  you  have  seen  yourself  like  this, 
you  will  suddenly  change  your  manners,  too. 
By  that  I  do  not  mean  that  you  haven't 
charming  ones  now,  but  you  will  discover  little 
gracious  gestures  you  had  half  forgotten.  We 
all  do,  until  something  startling  comes  along 
to  jack  us  up. 

NormaL.  F.: 

Puffiness  of  the  eyes  can  be  attributed  to 
several  things,  none  of  which  are  serious  but 
which  it  would  be  wise  to  look  into. 

First,  the  puffy  condition  may  be  due  to  eye 
strain.  I  would  suggest  that  you  see  an 
oculist  right  away.  If,  after  you  have  con- 
sulted him  and  find  that  the  condition  per- 
sists, see  your  physician  as  it  may  be  due  to 
some  internal  condition  which  he  could  remedy 
immediately.  If  you  are  subject  to  sinus 
trouble,  you  might  trace  the  puffiness  to  it. 

Medicated  packs  on  the  eyes  will  relieve 
strain  but  they  will  not  cure  an  internal 
condition. 

Gertrude  B.: 

According  to  your  height  and  age  you  are 
slightly  overweight.  You  should  weigh  about 
120  pounds.  Since  you  are  still  very  young, 
however,  you  will  probably  become  slimmer  as 
you  grow  older.  If  you  are  anxious  to  reduce, 
send  a  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope  for 
my  booklet  of  normalizing  exercises  and  re- 
ducing menus.  Excellent  exercises  for  the 
hips  and  thighs  are  included  in  it. 

The  shades  you  will  find  most  becoming  are: 
Soft  shades  ot  green,  to  bring  out  the  green  in 
your  eyes;  most  shades  of  blue,  particularly 
the  rich  blues;  purple  and  deep  orchid,  gray, 
golden  brown,  burnt  orange  and  tomato  red, 
black,  with  color  touches  and  white;  pale 
pink  and  soft  rose. 

In  make-up,  choose  a  pale  cream  powder 


and  a  bright  red  rouge  tending  toward  the 
orange.  Use  any  rouge  sparingly,  however. 
Your  lipstick  should  be  a  similar  shade. 

JeanT.: 

Hair  usually  turns  darker  as  one  grows  older 
and  that  is  what  is  happening  to  yours.  There 
is  no  set  rule  about  the  frequency  of  the  sham- 
poo, but,  in  general,  about  once  a  week  is 
often  enough.  Oily  hair  should  sometimes  be 
shampooed    more    frequently. 

You  are  slightly  overweight,  but  if  you  are 
well  proportioned  I  do  not  think  that  I  would 
worry  about  it.  Try  to  get  more  exercise  and 
cut  out  too  many  sweets. 

It  is  not  harmful  to  use  a  good  soap  on  your 
face.  You  might,  in  addition,  use  a  good 
cleansing  cream  once  a  day  to  keep  your  skin 
smooth. 

Carol: 

I  know  what  heartbreak  it  causes  to  have 
someone  you  care  about  drop  out  of  your  life. 
However,  I  think  you  are  doing  the  right  thing 
in  not  pursuing  him.  Since  you  cannot  seem 
to  find  anything  that  you  might  have  done 
to  hurt  his  feelings,  it  appears  he  is  merely 
fickle. 

From  your  letter,  I  judge  that  you  are  still 
quite  young  and,  therefore,  you  must  not  let 
this  bother  you  too  deeply.  There  are  so 
many  other  nice  young  boys.  I  know  that 
doesn't  help  the  present  ache  very  much,  but 
I  think  you  will  be  happier  if  you  start  going 
around  with  others.  You  will  soon  find  you 
have  quite  forgotten  this  one. 

Your  description  sounds  very  attractive. 
I  would  suggest  the  following  costume  colors 
for  a  brunette  of  your  type:  Most  shades  of 
red,  coral,  rose  and  flesh  pink;  most  shades  of 
yellow,  bluish  green,  peacock  blues,  light, 
clear  shades  of  orchid;  gray,  particularly  the 
rose  grays;  golden,  buff  and  nut  browns, 
black,  cream  and  ivory  white. 

In  make-up  I  would  suggest  that  you  try 
a  warm  cream  or  pale  tan  powder  with  a  rose 
glow  to  it,  light  vivid  rouge  and  lipstick. 
Brown  mascara  for  evening. 


Most  any  animal  would  willingly  give  its  life  to  fashion  such  a  dashing 

jacket  as  this  for  Dorothy  Mackaill!     Striped  ermine,  an  unusual  fur,  is 

cleverly  worked  into  a  fitted  short  jacket  for  evening  wear.    Note  the  soft, 

tie  collar!    Seymour  says  they  are  smartest 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


97 


TWO  KINDS  OF  WOMEN 


Those  who  now  have  all 
the  clothes  they  want 

This  group  is  a  large  and  grow- 
ing family.  They  know  froni 
experience  how  enjoyable  sew- 
ing can  be.  They  sit  at  ease,  press 
the  control  and  watch  the  silent 
stitches  flow  like  magic.  They 
plan  dresses  for  themselves, 
frocks  for  their  children,  dra- 
peries for  their  windows — and 
find  joy  in  their  swift  creation. 

And  those  ivho  have  yet 

to  discover  how  to 

have  them 

These  women  are  looking  for  a 
way  to  have  more  and  prettier 
clothes.  Each  day  this  group 
grows  smaller,  for  one  by  one 
they  learn  how  easily  they  can 
have  a  modern  Singer — a  sew- 
ing machine  so  easy  to  use, 
so  quiet  and  quick  that  mak- 
ing a  lovely  dress  is  merely  a 
few  hours  of  sheer  enjovment. 


J   If  you  have  not  discovered  the  modern 
Singer — and  found  how  easily  you  can 
have  one  —  learn  these  facts: 

The  machine  you  want 

No  matter  what  type  of  machine  you  prefer — a 
tahle  model  or  a  handy  portable;  a  lock-stitch  or 
chain-stitch;  an  electric  or  non-electric  —  you 
can  have  it,  built  with  traditional  Singer  quality. 

— at  a  new  low  price,  on 
convenient  terms 

You  can  have  your  choice  of  Singer  machines  in  a 
wide  range  of  prices,  all  lower  than  they  have  been 
^\    for  years.  Terms  will  be  arranged,  if  you  desire,  to 


meet  your  convenience.  If  you  have  a  machine 
now,  it  will  be  accepted  in  part  pavment. 

— with  service  near  by 

You  will  find  that  the  Singer  Shop  near  vour  home 
is  ready  with  courteous,  expert  service,  instruction, 
supplies,  and  special  help  on  any  sewing  problem. 

— and  complete  instruction  free 

With  your  machine  you  are  entitled  to  a  Complete 
Course  in  Home  Sewing  at  a  Singer  Sewing  School 
in  your  own  community.  A  personal  teacher  will 
guide  you  in  selecting  appropriate  designs  and 
fabrics,  altering  patterns  to  your  individual  mea- 
surements, laying  out  and  cutting  your  material 
and  assembling,  fitting  and  finisbing  your  dress  to 
the  last  detail. 


\. 


WHEN  you  buy  a  sewing  machine,  you  buy  it  not  merely  for  immediate  use  but  for  a  life- 
time of  service.  Why,  then,  should  you  even  consider  having  less  than  the  best?  You  can  have 
the  best — a  modern  Singer,  product  of  eighty  years  of  skill  and  experience.  And  \  oucan  have  it  now. 
Go  to  the  Singer  Shop  in  your  community  and  see  and  try  a  modern  Singer  vourself.  Or  let 
the  Singer  man  who  calls  at  your  home  send  you  a  machine  on  the  Self-Demonstration  Plan. 
Look  in  your  telephone  directory  for  the  nearest  address  of  the  Singer  Sewing  Machine  Company. 

Singer  Sewing  Machines 

Copyright  U.  S.  A.  1931.  by  The  Singer  Manufacturing  Co.  All  rights  reserved  for  all  countries 


r 


98 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Qhic  <f)ale  —The 

Specialist 


discusses 
MlLLT 
S  PRATT 


IT'S  wonderful  how  a  different 
point  of  view  will  change  your 
whole  life.  You  take  the  school 
teacher,  Miss  Milly  Spratt.  Fer 
twenty  year  she  taught  the  primary 
grade  because  the  older  boys  and 
girls  wouldn't  put  up  with  her. 

If  she  got  an  apple  it  was  because 
she  took  it  away  from  some  poor 
little  hungry  feller  that  was  eatin'  in 
school.  Didn't  any  of  the  children 
bring  her  an  apple  on  purpose. 

Well  sir,  one  day  she  saw  the 
little  fellers  eatin'  some  squares  of 
chocolate  candies.  The  candies  was 
in  a  blue  tin  box.  Down  the  aisle 
went  Milly  Spratt  and  snatched  up 
the  box  and  put  it  in  her  desk.  After 
school  she  got  it  out  and  ate  a  couple 
of  the  candies  herself.  They  was  so 
good  she  examined  the  box  and  read 
the  little  printed  slip  inside.  Now 
she  is  principal  of  that  school  and 
everybody  likes  her. 


"Those  little  chocolated  tablets"  in  the  little 
blue  box — Ex-Lax — mean  a  lot  in  the  lives  of 
millions  of  people ! 

Ex-Lax  checks  on  every  point  the  doctor 
looks  for  in  a  laxative.  It  is  safe,  gentle,  effec- 
tive. It  can't  form  a  habit.  It  won't  gripe. 

Try  it  tonight — it  will  sell  itself  to  you  !  All 
druggists,  in  io(*,  25^,  and  50(4  boxes,  or  send 
coupon  below  for  sample. 

Keep  "regular"  with 

EX- LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


FREE 


SAMPLE  of  Ex-Lax  and\^ 
"CHIC"  SALE'S  WELLS 
CORNERS  GAZETTE 


Namt 

jtddrelt  . 


City Stall 

Mail  this  coupon  to  The  Ex-Lax  Co..  P.  O.  rv.x  170. 
■V^  Times  Plaza  Sta..   Brooklyn.  N.  Y  P.H.-101, 


Short  Subjects 
of  the  Month 


Floyd   Gibbons,  purveyor  of  high-voltage  wordage,  has 

brought  his  rapid-fire  delivery  to  the  screen.     His  first 

short  is  reviewed  below 


FLOYD  GIBBONS'  SUPREME 
THRILLS 

RKO — Van  Beuren 
Floyd  Gibbons  turns  from  the  radio  to  the 
talking  screen  to  recount  some  of  the  great 
news  events  of  the  past.  This  first  one  in  a 
series  of  thirteen  concerns  itself  with  the  war 
days  of  the  late  President  Wilson  and,  aided  by 
news  clips  of  the  time  and  Admiral  Cary  T. 
Grayson,  Wilson's  personal  physician,  Gibbons 
builds  up  a  breathless  and  exciting  narrative. 
Fine. 

VOLLEY  AND  SMASH 
M-G-M 

More  sports  instruction,  this  time  in  tennis 
and  from  Bill  Tilden,  the  old  marster,  himself. 
Slow  motion,  stop  shots  and  a  running  descrip- 
tion make  these  of  value  to  the  ambitious 
amateur.  Every  stroke  is  thoroughly  and 
lucidly  shown  and  explained. 

CANNON  BALL 
Educational — Sennelt 
In  this,  Andy  Clyde,  with  his  whiskers  and 
glasses,  is  the  owner  and  engineer  of  a  decrepit 
railroad.  The  trick  locomotive  (built  by  clever 
Sennett  technicians)  gives  Andy  a  run  for  it, 
though.  Plenty  of  thrills,  and  the  race  be- 
tween the  locomotive  and  the  auto  bus  is  a 
riot. 

FRAMED 

William  J.  Bums — Educational 
If  you  get  a  kick  out  of  having  your  mystery 
plots  real,  you  will  enjoy  these  shorts  dealing 
with  actual  cases  solved  by  William  J.  Burns, 
the  famous  detective.  This  one  shows  how  the 
leaders  of  a  dope  ring  were  cleverly  trapped 
into  a  confession. 

SLIDE,  SPEEDY,  SLIDE 

Educational — Sennett 

There    have    been    many    funnier    Sennett 

comedies  than  this  one.    Daphne  Pollard,  who 

is   always   good    for    several    laughs,    cavorts 

through    a    baseball    slapstick    with    Wade 


Boteler  and  Tom  Dugan  as  the  home-run 
rivals.  Baseball  fans  will  laugh  at  the  big 
game. 

SPRING  TRAINING 
Tiffany  Prod. 
Elegant  entertainment  for  football  fans, 
featuring  five  famous  coaches  headed  by 
Howard  Jones,  and  grand  shots  of  how  players 
work  in  action.  This  is  the  first  of  a  series  and 
you'll  enjoy  the  football  season  better  for  hav- 
ing seen  them. 

MOVIE-TOWN 
Educational — Sennett 
Here's  one  of  the  comedies  in  color  that 
Mack  Sennett  has  been  working  on  for  some 
time.  The  comedy  element  is  a  bit  obscured 
for  the  color  scenery  and  the  stellar  perform- 
ance of  several  aquatic  stars.  Sennett  appears 
in  person.  Also  Marjorie  Beebe  and  George 
Olsen's  orchestra.    Good  entertainment. 

OLD  SONGS  FOR  NEW 
Welshay 
A  one-reeler  in  color;  fast  comedy  of  the  gay 
nineties.  A  miniature  revue,  with  swell  music 
by  Georgie  Stoll's  band,  reminiscent  of  the 
"good  old  days."  There  are  plenty  of  good 
laughs,  too. 

MELON-DRAMA 
Radio  Pictures 
Clark  and  McCullough  devote  their  antics 
to  being  two  comedy  detectives,  who  foil  a  plot 
to  place  a  bomb,  disguised  as  a  watermelon,  on 
a  judge's  porch.  The  laughs  come  often  and 
steadily. 

JUNGLE  GIANTS 
Educational — Howe  Hodge-Podge 
There  are  some  excellent  close-ups  of  big 
game  in  this  short,  and  you  will  enjoy  it.  You 
get  the  same  jungle  thrills  in  more  condensed 
form  than  from  the  average  African  super- 
spectacle. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Cal  York's  Monthly 

Broadcast  from 

Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  92  ] 


Y\  THEN  Harold  Lloyd  purchased  a  site  for 
»V  his  new  beach  house  at  Santa  Monica,  he 
bought  two  lots.  On  one  is  a  two-story  white 
Colonial  house  and  on  the  lot  next  to  it  is  a  tiny 
replica  of  it.  Yes,  you're  right.  It  is  the 
children's  playhouse.  A  high  wire  fence  sur- 
rounds it  and  the  iron  gates  are  padlocked. 

SEVERAL  years  ago,  Harold  Lloyd  almost 
lost  the  sight  of  one  eye  in  a  premature  ex- 
plosion of  dynamite  caps  during  the  making  of 
one  of  his  pictures. 

Last  month,  his  brother,  Gaylord,  did  lose 
the  sight  of  one  eye  in  a  similar  accident. 
During  a  gangster  sequence,  percussion  caps 
went  off  too  soon.  A  tiny  bit  of  copper  tore 
through  one  of  Gaylord's  eyeballs.  Operations 
failed  to  save  sight. 

MARY  NOLAN  is  nothing  if  not  courageous. 
After  an  uphill  fight  against  the  pub- 
licity that  attached  to  her  while  she  was 
Imogene  Wilson,  she  made  good  in  pictures  in 
Hollywood  as  Mary  Nolan. 

And  then  the  bottom  dropped  out  of  things 
for  her  again,  for  one  reason  and  another,  and 
the  denouement  came  when,  in  New  York 
recently,  she  went  into  bankruptcy,  owing 
more  than  $50,000. 

Soon  afterward,  she  came  back  to  Hollywood 
for  a  new  attack  of  film  fame.  And  with  this 
proclamation: 

"I  will  pay  back  every  penny  I  owe  in  this 
world.  I  did  not  go  into  bankruptcy  to  get  out 
of  paying — but  I  did  as  a  financial  investment. 
I  did  it  so  I  could  come  back  to  Hollywood  to 
work  and  make  good.  I  knew  the  people  I 
owed  money  to,  in  Hollywood,  wouldn't  let 
me  come  back  unless  I  did.  But  they'll  get 
back  every  cent  I  owe." 

Here's  luck!    To  Mary — and  the  creditors. 


A 


LL  quiet  on  the  Garbo 
front. 


TPNID  Hollywood  get  a  laugh  out  of  Connie 
-'-'Bennett's  New  York  crack  that  she  hadn't 
been  the  least  bit  interested  in  Joel  McCrea! 
.  .  .  Paul  Muni,  while  playing  the  tough  gang 
leader  in  "Scarface,"  was  robbed  of  one 
hundred  dollars  worth  of  jewels  by  a  thief  who 
rifled  his  locker.  .  .  .  Now  that  he's  generally 
known  as  ex-Buddy  Rogers,  Paramount  has 
withdrawn  its  objections  to  having  Charles 
called  Buddy.  ...  A  Hollywood  actress  had 
gold  finger  nails  at  a  recent  premiere.  .  .  . 
John  Barrymore's  ex-wife,  Michael  Strange, 
has  written  and  is  acting  in  a  play  in  the  East. 
.  .  .  Hollywood  Boulevard  got  a  laugh  out  of 
the  sign  on  the  back  of  a  Ford:  "The  Public 
Enemy."  .  .  .  Rex,  King  of  Wild  Horses,  has 
been  sent  to  an  Arizona  ranch  to  spend  his  last 
years  in  peace. 

^\F  Paramount's  twenty-three  contract 
^'actresses,  three  are  redheads,  nine  blondes 
and  eleven  brunettes.  .  .  .  There's  an 
oil  well  at  Venice,  Calif.,  named  the  Lewis 
Stone  well.  ...  A  Hollywood  wisecracker 
calls  the  town  "the  land  of  optional  illusions." 
.  .  .  Buddy  (ex-Charles)  Rogers  got  a  fan 
letter  embroidered  in  silk  on  a  square  of  linen 
from  a  girl  in  Oklahoma.  .  .  .  Whoops.  .  .  . 
If  you  haven't  known  it  already,  Anna  May 
Wong's  real  name  is  Wong  Lui  Tsong  and  it 
means  "frosted  yellow  willows."  .  .  .  June 
Clyde  is  crazy  over  deep-sea  fishing.  .  .  . 
"I'm  going  to  film  'Queer  People'  when  I'm 
ready  and  the  whole  film  industry  can't  stop 
me,"  says  Howard  "Hell's  Angels"  Hughes. 


A  New 
Beauty  Treatment 

for  WOOL 


()  wonder  this  l»il  of  wool       safe    temperature   lor   your   finesl 


looks  satisfied!  Pure  while 
Ivory  Snow  is  the  newest,  kindest 
way  to  take  care  of  fine  woolens 
and  delicate  silks. 

These  tiny  Snow  pearls  are  made 
of  Ivory  Soap.  You  know  lvor\'s 
spotless  reputation  when  it  comes 


things!  Every  one  of  those  little 
Snow  pearls  works,  too.  Not  one 
is  led  undissolved  to  stick  to  vour 
precious  fabrics! 

^  ou  get  a  big  box  of  Ivorv  Snow 
for  only  15p.  \nt\  it  contains 
enough  white  mapic  to  protect  the 
youth  and  beauty  of  hundreds  of 


to  gentleness!  But  here's  the  stir 

prise  —  these  dainty  pearls  of  Ivory       dollars  worth  of  (lollies! 

dissolve  instant!}  into  frothy  suds, 

in  lukewarm  water  —  exactly    the 


9944/00  %    PURE 


1931.  I'.  v  G.  Co. 


Silk  and  woolen 
manufacturers  agree 

"V  perfect  soap  Cor  silks,"  say 
Mallineon,  Cheney  Brothers  and 
Trillin.  "The  ideal  soap  for  wool- 
ens." say  the  weavers  of  the  line 
Biltmore  Handwoven  Home- 
spuns, the  makers  of  downy 
Mariposa  blankets  and  the 
rtolam  Worsted  Mills,  leading 
woolen  manufacturers,  to  men- 
tion only  a  few. 


IOO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Laura  La  Tlatitc 
and  ^Max  FactOi 
.  .  .  Hollywood's 
Make-Up  Qinius 
using  Rouge. 


R 


londe? 
orunettef 

s^edhead? ' 
orownette? 

Do  You  Know  Your 
Color  Harmony  in 

Make-Up 

As  Hollyzvood  Screen  Stars  Do? 

NOW,  like  the  screen  stars,  you  may  emphasize  your 
own  personality  and  individuality  by  having  your 
own  color  harmony  in  make-up  .  .  .  and  Max  Factor  will 
analyze  your  complexion  and  chart  your  make-up  color 
harmony . . .  free. 

An  Amazing  Discovery 

In  his  Studio  work,  under  the  blazing  "Kleig"  lights, 
Max  Factor  discovered  the  secret  of  perfect  make-up.  Cos- 
metics must  be  in  perfect  color  harmony,  otherwise  odd, 
grotesque  effects  result . . .  and  beauty  is  marred.  So  today, 
in  all  the  motion  picture  productions,  faultless  beauty  is  in- 
sured by  Max  Factor's  Make-Up. 

Based  on  this  same  principle  of  cosmetic  color  har- 
mony, Max  Factor  produced  Society  Make-Up  for  day  and 
evening  wear.  Powders,  rouges,  lipsticks  and  other  essentials 
in  correct  color  harmonies  for  every  variation  of  type  in 
blonde,  brunette,  redhead  and  brownette.  Society  Make-Up 
created  a  sensation  in  Hollywood.  Almost  instantaneous- 
ly leading  stars  and  thousands  of  other  beautiful  women 
adopted  it. 

Learn  Hollywood's  Make-Up  Secret 

Now  you  may  learn  what  Hollywood  knows  about 
make-up.  What  a  wonderful  opportunity!  ...  to  secure  per- 
sonally from  Filmland's  genius  of  make-up,  a  beauty  secret 
prized  by  stars  of  the  screen.  Now  it  is 
yours.  Free. ..and  with  your  com- 
plexion analysis  and  color  harmony 
chart  you  will  also  receive  a  com- 
plimentary copy  of  Max  Factor's 
book,  "The  New  Art  of  Society 
Make-Up".  Fill  in  coupon,  mail 
today. 

Max  Factor's  Society  Make-Up 

"Cosmetics  of  the  Stars"     HOLLYWOOD 

MAIL  FOR  YOUR*  TOMp£^XION~ANALYSIS~"  ' 

Mr.  Max-Factor — Max  Factor  Studios,  Hollywood,  California.  1*1024 
Send  me,  without  obligation,  my  complexion  analysis,  make-up  color 
harmony  chart,  and  48-page  illustrated  boolc,  "The  New  Art  of  Society 
Make  Up".  I  enclose  10c  (coin  or  stamps)  for  postage  and  handling. 


COMPLEXION 

COLOR  OF  EYES 

LIPS 

Light 

Moist     | 

Fair 

COLOR  OF  LASHES 

Dry 

Mul  mm 

SKIN 

Ruddy 

COLOR  OF  HAIR 

Oily 

Dark 

Dry 

Sallow 

AGE 

Normal 

Olive 

Answer  in  spaces  with  check  mark 

M.IW- 

AMtat 
City— 


.  State  _ 


At  last — the  two  Carroll  sisters  play  sisters  in  a  picture!    Nancy  and  her 
sister,  Terry,  as  they  look  as  the  Ryan  girls  in  "Personal  Maid" 


T_TERE'S  another  Hollywood  racket: 

•*■  -^     Man  goes  to  smartest  hotel.    Wants  to 

play  role  of  big  shot. 

Pays  telephone  operator  small  sum  a  week 
to  ring  'phone  every  fifteen  minutes  when  he 
has  guests  in  his  room. 

Conversations,  loud  enough  to  be  heard,  go 
like  this: 

"Hello,  Lindbergh,  ole  boy,  nice  of  you  to 
ring.  Sorry  I  won't  be  back  in  time  to  accept 
that  invitation.  Give  my  love  to  Ann."  Or, 
"Well,  that's  nice  of  President  Hoover  to  have 
you  call.  It  was  just  an  oversight  on  my  part 
that  I  didn't  answer  his  wire,"  etc.,  etc. 

BILL  HAINES  is  superstitious 
about  starting  pictures  on  un- 
lucky days. 

The  other  day,  he  was  told  that 
the  starting  date  of  his  next  picture 
would  be  on  Friday. 

Bill  protested.  Bill  argued.  Bill 
pleaded.  "Any  day,"  he  proposed, 
"but  Friday." 

They  finally  capitulated.  They 
agreed  to  start  on  Monday.  Bill  was 
overjoyed — until  Monday,  when  he 
looked  at  the  calendar.  It  was  the 
13th. 

HPHERE  are  only  two  pawn  shops  in  Holly- 
■*•  wood.  .  .  .  Evalyn  Knapp  has  recovered 
from  her  recent  almost  fatal  fall.  .  .  .  Clark 
Gable  has  a  new  and  very  swanky  dressing 
room.  .  .  .  Phil  Holmes  is  growing  a 
moustache.  .  .  .  And  you'll  have  to  get  used 
to  James  "Bad  Girl"  Dunn  co-starring  with 
Janet  Gaynor  instead  of  Charlie  Farrell.  .  .  . 
In  Paris  Connie  Bennett  went  on  a  clothes- 
buying  orgy.  .  .  .  Sure,  the  Marquis  was  with 
her  when  she  shopped.  .  .  .  Richard  Barthel- 
mess  sued  his  stock  brokers  for  $72,225.  .  .  . 
And  Merna  Kennedy  has  gone  into  bank- 
ruptcy. 

A  L  JOLSON  and  Eddie  Cantor  were  describ- 
■*Ving  the  merits  of  "Street  Scene"  following 
the  preview. 

"I  will  bet  anything  that  it  is  the  biggest 
box-office  hit  ever,"  said  Cantor.  "And  I 
never  gamble." 

"Oh  yeah?"  Jolson  interrupted. 

"You  know  I  don't  gamble.  Oh,  the  stock 
market  ? 

"That?  It  was  no  gamble.  It  was  a  sure 
thing.    A  sure  loss  from  the  beginning." 


HTHE  story  of  how  Kathryn  Crawford  won 
*■  the  leading  role  in  the  production  which 
M-G-M  is  making  of  "Flying  High"  is  another 
of  those  examples  of  the  actually-dangerous 
lengths  to  which  ambitious  girls  go,  in  Holly- 
wood. 

Innumerable  film  girls  were  being  tested 
for  the  lead  role  in  the  musical,  which  is  to 
be  one  of  M-G-M's  biggest  pictures  of  the  year. 
Naturally,  rivalry  was  keen. 

When  Kathryn  took  her  screen  test,  all 
went  well. 

They  were  enthusiastic  about  her  but  she 
was«too — well — plump. 

"If  it  weren't  for  that,  you'd  be  a  cinch 
for  the  role,"  they  told  her. 

TT'ATHRYN  got  busy  at  once.  "Don't 
-^decide  for  a  week,"  she  said.  She  went  to 
one  of  Los  Angeles'  best  hospitals  and 
underwent  the  most  rigorous  course  of  re- 
duction that  could  be  devised.  At  the  end  of 
a  week,  she  reported  back  to  M-G-M,  eleven 
pounds  lighter! 

It  made  the  necessary  difference.  Within 
two  days,  it  was  announced  that  she  could 
have  the  part. 

But  Kathryn  Crawford,  before  beginning 
work,  had  to  return  to  the  hospital  for  several 
days  more,  to  prevent  her  collapsing  from  the 
effects  of  the  strenuous  weight-losing — and 
also,  of  course,  to  prevent  her  regaining  the 
lost  poundage. 

IT'S  amazing,  the  lengths  to  which  bad  taste 
can  go! 

For  instance,  huge  24-sheet  billboards 
throughout  Hollywood  proclaimed  to  the 
world  that  "26  MEN  DIED  to  open  the 
HUGHES-FRANKLIN  STUDIO 
THEATER!" 

It  was  a  hideous  attempt  to  cash  in  on  the 
fact  that  twenty-six  men  were  killed  in  an  ex- 
plosion aboard  the  boat  on  which  Varick 
Frissell  and  his  crew  were  making  scenes  for 
"The  Viking,"  the  Arctic  epic  with  which  the 
new  theater  was  opened.  To  call  it  bad  taste 
is  being  mild. 

The  "Hughes"  of  the  Hughes-Franklin  chain 
of  theaters  is  Howard  Hughes  of  "Hell's 
Angels"  fame. 

Three  men  were  killed  during  the  making 
of  "Hell's  Angels." 

Hollywood  will  start  calling  him  "Killer" 
Hughes  if  he  permits  such  publicity  to  keep 
up. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


IOI 


Lily's  Coming  Back 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  56  ] 


to  see  a  charming  lady?  The  boys  smiled. 
There  had  been  a  lot  of  excitement  that  day, 
not  any  of  it  too  pleasant,  but  the  fact  re- 
mained that  the  story  had  made  every  news- 
paper in  the  country.  And  after  all,  Lily 
Damita  was  a  new  star.  And  besides,  Lily, 
herself,  had  been  delighted.  They  looked  at  the 
red  heart.  What  she  thought  had  been  more 
important  to  the  boys  than  the  outraged  feel- 
ings of  the  royalties — Hollywood  or  London! 

They  scowled  and  skimmed  over  the  stories 
of  the  captivation  of  the  Prince  by  June  Coll- 
yer.  Lily  had  failed  them  a  bit  there.  Too 
bad,  June's  press-agent  wasn't  going  to  over- 
look a  bet.    Why  should  he? 

Then  there  were  the  magazine  files!  Story 
after  story — "Love  Life,"  "Men,"  "Her  Re- 
grets to  Royalty."  Dozens  upon  dozens  of 
pages.  And  the  syndicates.  "Film  Star  Says 
All  Men  Are  Playthings,"  "French  Film  Star 
Is  Like  Caribbean  Sea  Hurricane  As  She  Tells 
of  Her  Loves" — 

A  ND  now  she  was  coming  back !  Keeping 
-*Mhings  out  of  print  might  earn  them  their 
salaries  but  getting  them  ;';;  was  the  real  kick 
of  the  job.    And  with  Lily — 

They  paused  to  talk  of  the  stories  they 
hadn't  dared  print.  After  all,  there  had  been 
a  limit.  How  the  papers  would  have  loved  the 
yarn  of  that  party  Sam  Goldwyn  gave  for  the 
dignified  visiting  publishers  of  England. 
Everyone  ultra-impressive. 

The  party  was  going  fine.  Discussion  of  the 
third  or  fourth  dimension  in  pictures,  the 
progress  of  television — then  Damita  whirled 
in.  She  whirled  right  up  to  one  of  the  Holly- 
wood film  magnates  and  kissed  him  on  the 
cheek.    "Flello,  darling — ■"    The  mogul  made 


When  crowds  in  Reno,  Nev.,  saw  this 
fellow,  they  let  off  shouts  of  "Hey, 
Doug!"  But  instead  of  being  Mr. 
Bounding  Fairbanks,  this  turned  out 
to  be  Mr.  Carlton  Wines  of  Los  An- 
geles. Mr.  Wines  says  he  knows 
Doug  well,  and  may  dress  like  him. 
As  for  looks — what  do  you  think? 


No  woman 
should  risk 

unknown  substitutes  for  Kotex 


Kotex  is  safe,  secure;  it  can 

be  worn  on  either  side  with 

equal  protection. 

THERE'S  one  time  to  be  cautious — 
that's  when  you  hear  the  expression, 
"just  like  Kotex." 

How  do  you  know  it's  just  like  Kotex  ? 
Who  stands  back  of  it?  Where  was  it 
made  ?  How  ?  By  whom  ?  Is  it,  like  Kotex, 
used  by  hospitals  from  coast  to  coast? 
Those  words,  "just  like  Kotex,"  mean 
much  more,  you  see,  than  surface  resem- 
blance. It's  easy  to  make  a  pad  that 
looks  like  Kotex.  Far,  far  harder  to 
make  one  that  meets  the  rigid  Kotex 
standards  of  purity,  of  cleanliness,  of 
perfect  hygienic  safety. 

Why  risk  health? 

After  all,  why  take  chances?  You 
know  Kotex  is  safe.  It  is  treated  to  de- 
odorize. It  is  adjustable.  Last  year  more 
than  10,000,000  pads  were  used  by 
hospitals  alone — their  choice  of  Kotex 
should  be  your  guide. 

Kotex  may  cost  a  few  pennies  more 
than  some  questionable  substitute,  of 
whose  makers  you  know  nothing.  But 
those  few  cents  guarantee  a  product  that 
meets  your  personal  ideals  of  cleanliness, 
as  well  as  hygienic  safety. 


You  have  every  possible  comfort  in 
Kotex.  Careful  shaping,  for  comfort  and 
inconspicuous  lines.  Super-softness  .  . . 
that  lasts  .  .  .  because  Kotex  is  made  of 
laminated  layers  of  Cellucotton  (not 
cotton)  absorbent  wadding,  which  ab- 
sorbs scientifically,  away  from  the  surface. 

The  feeling  of  security  that  comes 
with  perfect  fit,  perfect  adjustment.  And 
the  fact — how  important,  too — that  you 
can  wear  Kotex  on  either  side.  There's 
no  worry  about  inadequate  protection. 
No  chance  of  embarrassing  situations. 

Kotex  Company,  Chicago. 

^iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiimiii  ii  | 

IN  HOSPITALS  .  .  . 

\     The  Kotex  absorbent  is  the  identical  | 

material  used  by  surgeons  in  85*°  of  the  | 
countty's  leading  hospitals. 

1    2     Kotex  is  soft  .   .    .  Not  merely  an  ap-  | 

parent  softness,  that  soon  packs  into  chaf-  § 

inghardness.  Butadelicate.lastingsoftness.  1 

j    3    C""  be  worn  on  either  side  with  equal  | 

comfort.  No  embarrassment. 

|    4    Disposable,  instantly,  completely. 

^iiiiiiuiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimnii  uniiumc 

brings  new  ideals  of  sanitary  comfort!  Woven 
to  fit  by  an  entirely  new  patented  process. 
Firm  yet  light;    will  not  curl;  perfect' fitting. 

KOT6X 

Sanitary  Napkins 


I  02 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


londe  or 
brunette  — Gentlemen 
prefer  those  who  prefer 
YBRY.  The  truly  perma- 
nent lipstick.  Smooth 
and  delicious  in  taste. 
Exquisite  in  scent. 
Featured  at  best  shops 


AMAZINGLY  LOW  FOR 
A  FRENCH  CREATION 


Ybry,lnc.,Depf.P  7, 50  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City 

Please  send  trial  size  Ybry  lipstick — -10c  enclosed 

My  hair  is My  eyes  are 


the  most  of  it  and  went  right  on  being  digni- 
fied. And  he  never  knew  until  he  got  home 
that  she  had  left  the  imprint  of  that  kiss  on  his 
cheek  as  indelibly  as  she  had  left  the  heart  on 
the  calcimined  walls  of  his  publicity  office! 

And  the  inside  yarn  of  how  she  treated 
Prince  Louis  Ferdinand.  The  Prince  had 
taken  an  apartment  at  the  Villa  Carlotta, 
right  across  from  the  Chateau  Elysee  where 
Lily  lived.  And  he  was  always  in  the  lobby  of 
the  Chateau  waiting  for  her  to  come  in  and 
go  out.  Right  on  the  spot  so  he  wouldn't  lose 
sight  of  her  for  a  moment. 

SO  Lily  learned  about  the  back  stairs  and 
made  her  entrances  that  way.  Then  she'd 
call  down  and  tell  the  operator  that  if  any  one 
asked  for  Miss  Damita  she  was  not  home. 
She'd  jump  into  a  straight  little  tailored  suit 
and  a  wide-brimmed,  felt  hat,  a  la  Garbo,  and 
dance  down  into  the  lobby  and  out  the  front 
door — incognito. 

But  the  Prince  never  knew.  He  didn't 
recognize  his  Lily  in  this  woman  who  passed, 
hat  down,  right  before  him! 

Yarn  after  yarn  that  had  never  been  printed! 

Time  for  the  train.  Whoops!  Camera  men, 
press  boys,  studio  officials  off  for  the  Chief. 
Hank  Arnold,  who  headed  the  publicity  de- 
partment at  that  time,  led  the  way.  As  the 
train  stopped,  he  bounded  into  the  door  of  her 
compartment. 

Arms  extended!  Oh,  the  joy  of  greeting  Lily 
again  as  he  had  done  so  often  in  that  easy  pro- 
fessional manner  which  marks  Hollywood  cus- 
toms. 

The  door  was  closed.  Hank  pounded.  The 
door  opened.  Hank  started  to  bound  and  then 
stopped — a  svelte,  beautiful,  cold-eyed  young 
woman  extended  a  courteous  hand  calmly 
toward  him.    Raised  it  to  be  kissed — 

"How-do-you-do,  Hank.  I  am  happy  to  see 
you  again." 

No  kisses;  no  emotion;  no  glad  reception. 
And  on  the  way  to  her  apartment,  "I  am  very 
dignified,  now,  Hank.  I  raise  no  more  hell. 
I  drink  no  more  champagne.  I  do  no  more 
flirting.     Damita  has  grown  up!" 


And  that  evening  she  told  a  close  personal 
woman  friend:  "I  have  made  a  mistake  the 
first  time  I  am  in  Hollywood.  I  am  a  hell- 
raiser.  I  talk  too  much.  I  am  too  free  and 
easy.  When  I  first  come  all  the  big  people  are 
nice  to  me  but  I  shock  them  and  they  are  not 
so  nice  before  I  leave. 

"I  have  learned  now.  I  see  only  the  right 
people.  I  will  see  none  if  they  are  not  right. 
I  stay  home  and  read.  I  improve  myself. 
I  have  only  the  right  clothes.  You  must  see 
my  clothes. 

"They  are  correct.  Low  heels  for  the  street; 
high  heels  for  the  night  only.  I  have  learned 
the  difference  between  low  heels  and  high  heels 
in  life,  see?" 

Her  first  day  back  in  Hollywood  she  went 
to  the  studio  and  erased  the  red  heart  from  the 
white  calcimined  walls.  She  told  the  publicity 
boys: 

"No  more  semi-nude  pictures.  I  will  pose 
only  in  all  of  my  clothes.  No  more  wild  stories. 
There  are  no  men  in  my  life — " 

She  remained  one  year  and  lived  up  to  her 
new  creed. 

She  adopted  her  new  personality  as  easily  as 
a  chameleon  changes  color.  She  became  correct 
— very,  very  correct.  She  went  with  the  best 
people. 

Her  career?  Oh,  now  there  is  the  strange 
part  of  the  story. 

She  finished  at  United  Artists.  She  went  to 
Radio  for  three  pictures. 

The  first  one,  "The  Woman  Between,"  was 
fairly  good;  her  second  "  Friends  and  Lovers, " 
not  yet  released,  is  good.    And  her  third — 

DAMITA  was  big  box-office  two  years  ago. 
Her  publicity  had  made  her  box-office  be- 
fore she  had  completed  one  picture.  She  had 
blazoned  across  the  consciousness  of  the  Amer- 
ican public  as  Pola  Negri  had  once;  as  Lupe 
Velez  is  still  doing.  Color,  laughter  and  sex 
appeal.  And  then — dignity;  reserve;  seclusion. 
Publicity  throttled. 

Ah,  Lily  was  a  joy  to  all  of  us.  But  we  are 
wondering  about  the  third  Lily.  She'll  be  wel- 
come anyhow. 


Name 

Address 


(Please  "prIntS 


& 


A 


An  old  and  dear  friend  in  a  new  role.    Shirley  Mason,  famed  in  silent  days 

and  sister  of  Viola  Dana,  holding  her  new  daughter,  Sheila.     Shirley's 

the  wife  of  Sidney  Lanfield,  Fox  director 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


"What  a  Man!" 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  35  ] 

great  deal  more  than  they  do  to-day — like 
Eddie  Cantor's.  But  that's  been  overcome, 
too.  It  was  easy.  Gable  may  not  be  hand- 
some— but  he's  a  beauty  compared  with  the 
Gable  as  was.  He's  a  worthwhile  lesson  to 
any  man  or  woman  who  is  ambitious  enough 
to  overcome  facial  defects. 

He  has  a  noticeable  measure  of  self-con- 
sciousness. His  hands,  for  example,  are  rather 
large.  He  is  patently  worried  about  what  to 
do  with  them.  He  is  keenly  clothes-conscious, 
and  always  dresses  well.  He  likes  to  dress  up. 
The  biggest  surprise  that  ever  hit  one  of  his 
acquaintances  who  "knew  him  when"  came  on 
Broadway  one  evening  when  Gable  had  just 
gotten  out  of  the  press-your-suit-while-you- 
wait  ranks.  The  acquaintance  beheld  Gable 
resplendent  in  full  evening  dress — not  Tuxedo. 
but  tails — with  all  the  trimmings;  high  silk 
hat,  white  gloves,  silver  flask  (filled)  and  even 
a  cane.  The  acquaintance  will  never  be  the 
same. 

XTOW  that  he's  making  big  money,  Gable 
■'-^  buys  clothes  in  quantities.  He's  fair  game 
for  the  haberdashers  of  Hollywood.  Clark  may 
go  into  a  store  with  the  intention  of  buying 
nothing  but  a  necktie;  when  the  salesmen  get 
done  with  him,  he's  probably  bought  three  or 
four  hundred  dollars'  worth  of  clothes. 

On  the  other  hand,  when  things  weren't 
breaking  well  for  Gable,  he  paid  no  attention 
to  his  appearance.  It's  a  manifestation  of  a 
chameleon-like  trait  in  the  man — he  fits  his 
mood  and  his  self  to  circumstances. 

By  reason  of  that,  he  appears  at  home  in 
whatever  gathering  he  finds  himself.  When 
he's  shooting  craps  with  a  gang  of  studio 
juicers  and  grips,  you  couldn't  pick  him  out  of 
the  crowd,  he's  so  much  one  of  them.  Set  him 
down  in  a  society  drawing-room,  and  he  can 
bow  and  scrape  and  broad-A  with  any  of  them. 
He  always  reflects,  in  his  apparent  personality, 
the  group  of  which  he's  currently  a  part. 

He's  childlike  in  his  reactions  and  enthu- 
siasms. He  has  no  definite  hobby,  but  goes 
through  a  steady  and  rapid  succession  of  pass- 
ing fancies — like  a  kid  with  toys.  He  may  be 
crazy  about  this  game,  or  some  new  possession, 
for  a  week  or  two,  say.  Then,  like  a  kid  grown 
tired  of  a  new  plaything,  he  forgets  it  com- 
pletely. 

He  sticks  to  golf,  though.  He  loves  it.  And 
he  rides  a  lot — but  more  to  keep  his  figure 
than  because  he  likes  it.  He  really  has  a 
splendid  body  —  broad-shouldered,  narrow- 
waisted.  He's  an  inch  better  than  six  feet  tall, 
weighs  190,  and  is  as  healthy  as  a  young  steer. 

T_TE  smokes,  and  drinks,  but  neither  to  any 
■*■  -^-excessive  extent.  Food  is  no  problem — 
there's  nothing  in  the  line  of  foods  he  won't  eat. 
He  drinks  great  quantities  of  coffee.  And  late 
at  night,  he  likes  to  go  into  a  restaurant  and 
order  eggs  and  bacon  and  hashed-brown 
potatoes. 

He  has  all  the  usual  actor-superstitions — 
won't  light  three  smokes  on  one  match,  won't 
let  people  whistle  in  his  dressing-room,  and 
goes  crazy  when  a  mirror  is  broken. 

He  wants  to  own  an  airplane  now.  The  first 
time  he  flew — it  was  from  New  York  to  Cali- 
fornia— he  climbed  out  of  the  plane  pretty 
sick  and  vowed  he'd  never  like  airplanes. 
Then  he  went  to  the  San  Diego  naval  flying 
base  on  a  picture,  went  up  with  some  of  the 
navy's  best  flyers,  did  all  the  stunts  they  could 
think  of,  and  came  down  wanting  to  own  an 
airplane. 

His  big  ambition  is  to  stay  on  top  of  the 
heap,  now,  for  about  ten  years  and  make  a 
lot  of  money.  Then  he  wants  to  quit  working 
and  spend  the  rest  of  his  life  traveling. 

You're  a  grand  guy,  Clark.  Good  luck  to 
you. 


THIS  BRONZED  YOUNG  POLO 
PLAYER  says:  "The  girl  I  marry  must 
have  beautiful  eyes  and  a  clear  natural 
skin." 


KJne  oj  ihese  ^  llilen  is  looking 


ten  is 
or  YOU 


/o 


During  the  past  few  months,  I've  asked 
100  attractive  and  eligible  young  men  to 
describe  the  girls  they  want  to  marry. 
Their  answers  differed  in  all  but  one 
thing.  94  out  of  the  100  agreed  on  a 
"real  girl" — one  who  would  look — and 
be — natural. 

Looking  natural  doesn't  mean  looking 
plain,  or  leaving  off  rouge  and  powder. 
It  does  mean  keeping  your  skin  fresh  and 
lovely — avoiding  the  hothouse  look  that 
even  skilful  makeup  can't  conceal. 

Dermatologists  say  Camay 

73  famous  dermatologists  enthusiastically 
approve  Camay  as  an  ideally  gentle  soap 
for  fine,  naturally  beautiful  complexions. 
Many  of  these  doctors  prescribe  Camay 
for  their  own  patients  as  part  of  the  soap- 
and-water  cleansing  they  all  advise. 


CAMAY 


No  other  soap  has  won  such  medical  ap- 
proval. 

Do  try  Camay  for  a  week.  You'll  enjoy 
it  more  than  any  soap  you've  ever  used. 
You'll  like  its  palm-fitting  shape,  its 
satin-smooth  texture,  the  instant  luxury 
of  its  fragrant  lather.  And  every  day  of 
Camay  cleansing  will  bring  you  nearer  to 
the  fresh,  natural  loveliness  that  men  are 
seeking 


l4-eJ!flAA_  izXuxAji — 


COMPLEXION     SOAP 


1(1 


for  the  fresh  natural 
skin   nun   admire 


C  1931,  P.  ft  G.  Co 


104 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


NEW 
WONDERFUL 
E.1CE  POWDER 
§E/1¥§  ON  1 0\4il  It 
PHI  1 1  \1>  EARGE  PORES 

You  will  love  MELLO-GLO  because  it  stays  on 
longer.  Unsightly  shine  is  banished.  No  dry  or 
flaky  appearance.  No  "drawn"  feeling  or  irrita- 
tion. Justexquisite  rose-petal  beauty,that  feels 
as  fresh  and  lovely  as  it  looks.  MELLO-GLO  Face 
Powder  prevents  large  pores  and  coarse  skin 
texture. 

Beautiful  women  use  MELLO-GLO,  because  a 
new,  exclusive  French  process  makes  this  the 
finest  and  purest  face  powder  known. 

Sifted  through  close-meshed  silk,  MELLO-GLO 
spreads  with  amazing  smoothness.  Its  odor, 
delicately  fragrant.  One  natural  shade  that 
blends  perfectly  with  any  complexion,  bestow- 
ing upon  your  skin  a  fresh,  clear, youthful  bloom. 

If  you  wish  to  possess  and  retain  a  girlish 
complexion,  insist  on  MELLO-GLO.  One  dollar 
at  all  stores. 

For  fine,  dry  or  sensitive  skin,  ask  for  new 
light-weight  MELLO-GLO   in   blue-edged    box. 

Canadian  Agents,  Lyman  Agencies,  Limited,  Montreal 

MELLO-GLO  COMPANY      (Dept.  70) 
Statler  Bids.,  Boston.  Mass. 

Please  find  10  cents  enclosed.  Send  me  sample  of 
MELLO-GLO  Face  Powder. 


The  Shadow  Stage 

The  National  Guide  to  Motion  Pictures 


(REG.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF.) 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  51 


Name. 


Address^ 


Kindly  write  here  name  of  your  favorite  store: 


THE  LAST  FLIGHT— First  National 

THE  madly  gay  adventures  of  four  war- 
wracked  aviators,  and  Nikki,  the  girl  they 
pick  up  in  a  Parisian  cafe,  make  the  first  half 
of  this  a  ridiculously  merry  affair.  But  when 
three  are  killed  off,  leaving  only  a  somber 
Dick  Barthelmess  to  marry  Nikki,  the  picture 
lets  down  suddenly.  Johnny  Mack  Brown, 
David  Manners  and  Elliott  Nugent,  Dick's 
pals,  overshadow  him.  Helen  Chandler,  excel- 
lent as  Nikki,  gives  the  picture  its  chief  charm. 

DAUGHTER  OF  THE  DRAGON— 

Paramount 

OLD  man  Fu  Manchit,  in  process  of  aveng- 
ing something,  kills  half  an  English  family 
and  is  about  to  kill  the  rest  when  Sessue 
Hayakawa — having  trouble  with  his  English, 
but  looking  gentlemanly — plugs  him.  Dying, 
Fu  pledges  his  lovely  daughter,  played  by 
Anna  May  Wong,  to  carry  on  the  extermina- 
tion.    All  right  if  you  like  murder  stories. 

GRAFT—  Universal 

THIS  is  a  fast  action  thriller  of  the  "gotta- 
have-a-chase"  school,  with  a  newspaper 
background.  Regis  Toomey  is  just  dumb 
enough  as  the  dumbbell  reporter  and  is  sup- 
ported by  pretty  Sue  Carol.  City  Editor 
Willard  Robertson,  and  villainous  Boris  Kar- 
loff  grab  the  acting  honors.  But  beautiful 
Dorothy  Revier  gets  honorable  mention. 

FRIENDS  AND  LOVERS— 
Radio  Pictures 

AN  extraordinarily  splendid  cast  of  actors 
gets  all  tangled  up  in  an  involved  yarn 
that  tries  to  be  too  gosh-awful  sophisticated. 
Eric  Von  Stroheim,  Adolphe  Menjou  and  Lily 
Damita  give  splendid  performances  that  in 
themselves  make  the  picture  entertaining.  Go 
see  it,  if  you  like  "high-life-in-Europe"  plots, 
but  let  the  kiddies  stay  home  and  play  lotto. 

BRANDED— Columbia 

GOOD  ol'  Buck  Jones  gets  into  a  saddle 
again,  and  with  the  help  of  a  competent 
Western  cast,  produces  another  of  the  old- 
time,  dependable  brand  of  Western  thrillers. 
If  criticism  is  to  be  made,  it  might  be  along 
the  grounds  that  there  could  be  more  action 
and  less  talk.  There's  some  grand  scenery  in 
this,  and  it's  been  perfectly  photographed. 

THE  HARD  HOMBRE— Allied 

SEND  the  kiddies,  by  all  means,  and  if  you 
like  wide-open  spaces  and  comedy  send  the 
grown-ups,  too.  This  is  an  attempt  to  get 
away  from  stereotyped  Westerns.  Hoot  Gibson 
plays  "Peaceful"  Pulton,  taught  never  to  fight. 
Of  course,  he  gets  into  a  whale  of  a  one  before 
the  finish,  much  to  everyone's  delight.  Lina 
Basquette  was  never  more  easy  to  look  at. 

THE   IMMORTAL    VAGABOND— UFA 

TEDIOUS,  and,  oh,  my,  so  serious.  A 
Tyrolian  lad  turns  to  opera  writing  instead 
of  the  more  ordinary  yodeling  and  dashes  off 
a  piece  which  becomes  an  instant  success. 
But  a  crool  father  separates  him  and  his 
mountain  sweetheart.  Scenic  effects — magnif- 
icent. Good  acting  by  the  lead,  Gustav 
Frohlich,  and  a  beautiful  but  buxom  lass, 
Liana  Haid.     English  dialogue. 


MURDER  AT  MIDNIGHT— 
Tiffany  Prod. 

ONE  of  the  hardest  things  to  do  is  produce 
a  good  murder  mystery  movie.  They  are 
all  apt  to  be  more  or  less  alike.  Tiffany  made 
this  one  cleverly,  with  a  cast  of  actors  a  bigger 
studio  might  well  be  proud  of.  It  keeps  you 
guessing  and  excited.  Alice  White  returns  to 
the  screen  in  a  small  part,  revealing  a  voice 
with  sex  appeal. 

THIRTEEN  MEN  AND  A  GIRL— UFA 

A  DREARY,  long  drawn-out  tragedy  in 
■**■  which  each  and  every  character  gets  killed 
for  the  final  fade-out.  Neat  trick,  wot?  If 
it  had  happened  a  little  sooner  you  wouldn't 
have  cared.  Conrad  Veidt,  a  splendid  actor, 
has  little  chance  to  show  his  skill  and  the  girl 
is  just  too  sugary  for  words.  Foreign-made, 
with  English  dialogue. 

MEN  ARE  LIKE  THAT— Columbia 

AUGUSTUS  THOMAS'  play  "Arizona," 
which  mother  and  dad  relished  when  they 
were  young,  has  been  brought  up  to  date 
with  Laura  La  Plante  and  John  Wayne  in  the 
principal  roles.  Being  a  story  of  Army  life 
and  love,  you  will  like  the  modern  flashes  of 
an  Army-Navy  game,  infantry  and  cavalry 
maneuvers,  and  the  general  military  atmos- 
phere. Laura  is  as  pretty  as  ever  and  John 
Wayne  is  a  handsome  lieutenant.  If  you  don't 
expect  too  much,  you'll  enjoy  it. 

THE  AGE  FOR  LOVE— Caddo 

TOO  bad.  We  had  hoped  for  much  from 
this  picture  marking  the  return  of  Billie 
Dove  to  the  screen.  But  a  trite  and  old  story, 
heavy  direction  and  poor  photography  give 
disappointment.  True,  Billie  does  her  best 
acting  and  reads  lines  well,  showing  what  a 
year's  assiduous  training  has  done.  But  it's 
a  shame  to  belittle  one  of  our  most  beautiful 
women.     Better  luck  next  time,  Billie. 

SUNDOWN  TRAIL— RKO-Pathe 

ONLY  a  boy  like  Tom  Keene  (our  old 
friend  George  Duryea)  with  good  looks, 
personality  and  ability,  could  put  over  this 
Western  in  a  manner  to  make  us  forget  the 
poorly  constructed  story.  Nick  Stuart's  win- 
ning smile  and  excellent  work  help,  too. 
Pretty  Marion  Shilling  suffers  from  a  most 
disagreeable  role,  but  Keene  is  worth  going 
far  to  see. 

MOTHER  AND  SON— 
Monogram  Prod. 

CLARA  KIMBALL  YOUNG,  as  Faro  Lil. 
just  doesn't  seem  right,  even  though  her 
work  is  convincing.  She  is  still  beautiful  and 
poised.  Another  Reno  story  of  the  mother 
who  gambles  to  place  her  son  in  a  better 
position.  Bruce  Warren  is  the  attractive  son 
and  Mildred  Golden  is  his  sweetheart.  This 
girl  deserves  a  better  part.  Ernest  Hilliard, 
old  time  favorite,  is  excellent  as  Lil's  friend. 

A  PRIVATE  SCANDAL— 
Headline  Prod. 

AND    still    they    come — these    underworld 
stories.    This  is  the  story  of  the  reformed 
crook  and  his  sweetie,  who,  as  the  District 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Attorney's  secretary,  saves  him  from  going 
back  to  jail  after  his  reform.  It's  fast  moving, 
well  directed,  and  holds  the  interest  at  all 
times.  Lloyd  Hughes  and  Marian  Nixon 
make  the  most  of  the  leading  roles,  with 
Theodore  Von  Eltz  and  Walter  Hiers  doing 
good  work. 

EXPRESS  13— UFA 

HTHE  action  of  this  all-German  melodrama  is 
*•  crowded  into  the  three  hours  necessary  to 
repair  the  tracks  so  Express  13  can  proceed 
to  Berlin.  In  that  short  time  a  bridegroom, 
leaving  his  bride  in  their  honeymoon  com- 
partment while  he  strolls  about,  runs  into 
intrigue,  murder,  fire  and  bombing,  and  yet 
manages  to  get  back  in  time  to  catch  the 
train  as  it  continues  on  its  way.  Fast,  thrill- 
ing stuff,  but  better  if  you  understand  the 
language. 

PARDON  US— Hal  Roach-M-G-M 

•"THIS  might  be  subtitled  "Glorifying  The 
•*■  American  Buzzer,"  for  that  distinctly  Amer- 
ican sound — most  frequently  made  by  insert- 
ing the  tongue  between  the  lips  and  blowing — 
accounts  for  practically  all  the  laughs  in  this 
first  full  length  Laurel  and  Hardy  comedy. 
Because  of  a  loose  tooth,  Stan  Laurel  can't 
help  making  that  noise  when  he  talks.  It 
gets  them  into  trouble  and  it  gets  them  into 
jail,  where  the  fun  takes  place.  All  hokum, 
but  lots  of  fun. 


Io5 


Soft  white  velvet  is  one  of  the  most 
charming  evening  choices  this  Fall, 
especially  for  young  things  like  Madge 
Evans.  The  high  fitted  bodice  with 
soft  draped  neckline  is  both  smart 
and  becoming.  The  skirt  gains  full- 
ness toward  the  bottom 


Last  winter  teachers  wrote  u:> 

voluntarily,     asking    for     Kleenex 

samples   to   distribute   to   their 

pupils.   More  than  a  million  sam- 

ples were  distributed  in  this  way, 

^^B 

at  the  express  request  of  teachers. 

■V  J  -  T*^ 

J% 

Wm  Bfr'              ^ 

^F^                1 

^^^f^^^^^Sn                       fl&                     ^H 

a                                              n 

1  ]                              1            ■ 

7  <                     ^^fl 

Hk^        ~w,              '^B 

» 

%^                        m 

>AI^|                 UJ 

^fl 

"We  teachers 
want  Kleenex— 

in  the  hands  of  children  in 
place  of  dirty  handkerchiefs" 


MOTHERS,  the  teach- 
ers of  the  nation  are 
up  in  arms  against  the 
handkerchief. 

They  know  how  a  soiled 
handkerchief  goes  back  to 
the  face  time  after  time, 
carrying  germs  to  self- 
infect  the  user.  They  know 
how  one  handkerchief, 
used  carelessly,  as  chil- 
dren will,  can  spread  a 
cold  through  the  entire 
class. 

Many  teachers  tell  us 
they  are  teaching  the  use 
of  the  disposable  hand- 
kerchief in  hygiene  classes. 
But  they  need  your  help. 
You,  the  parents,  must 
co-operate. 

Kleenex  helps  you,  too 

You'll  find  Kleenex  a  boon  to  you,  as 
well  as  to  the  teacher.  It  eliminates  the 
most  unpleasant  washing  you  are  called 
upon  to  do.  And  there  are  no  lost  hand- 
kerchiefs to  worry  about. 

Kleenex  costs  so  very  little,  that  each 
tissue  is  used  only  once.  Then  it's  de- 
stroyed, completely.  This  sanitary  prac- 
tice disposes  of  dangerous  germs  at  once, 

KLEENEX 

Disposable  TISSUES 


Tender  protection  for  sore  little 
noses!  Kleenex  is  so  soft,  dry 
and  gentle,  so  absorbent,  that 
it  never  irritates. 


before  they  have  a  chance 
to  contaminate  clothing 
and  laundry  bags. 

Kleenex  Tissues  are 
marvelously  soft  and 
gentle — much  softer  than 
you  ever  thought  a  tissue 
substance  could  be  made. 

Useful  in  many  ways 

Once  you've  learned 
about  Kleenex  you'll  want 
to  keep  a  package  in  your 
kitchen,  bath  and  bed- 
room . . .  and  another  in 
the  automobile  as  well. 

Kleenex  is  perfect  for 
removing  face  creams.  It 
is  invaluable  in  caring  for 
young  babies. 

All  drug,  dry  goods  and 
department  stores  sell  Kleenex.  Insist  on 
genuine  Kleenex,  for  its  greater  softness 
and  perfect  cleanliness;  each  package  is 
cellophane  wrapped.  You  can  remove  the 
tissues  with  one  hand. 


4 


Kleenex  Company,                 n 
Lake  Michigan  Bldg.,          / 
Chicago,  Illinois.                  j 

Please  send  me  a  free      '— 
trial  supply  of  Kleenex. 

ffamf                      

I'll- 10 

Sfroft 

City 

Staff 

1 06 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


46 


Talk  about 
foot  faults"! 


There's  one  in  tennis  that's  always 
scored  against  you — the  mean  little 
corn  that  slows  up  your  game  and 
makes  you  long  for  the  set  to  end. 

A  Blue-jay  corn  plaster  will  make  all 
the  difference!  Blue-jay  is  the  sen- 
sible way  to  treat  a  corn — proved  by 
millions  for  more  than  thirty  years. 
Let  Blue-jay  instantly  relieve  the 
pressure  and  pain;  mildly  prepare  the 
corn  for  early  removal — and  soon 
you'll  be  on  easy  feet! 

Blue-jay  is  the  cleanly,  pleasant, 
hygienic,  safe  treatment — made  by  a 
firm  noted  for  the  quality  of  its  sur- 
gical dressings At  all  druggists,  25c. 

BLUE-JAY 

CORN    PLASTERS 


BAUER  &  BLACK 


DIVISION    OF    THE    KENDALL    COMPANY 
Chicago  New  York     .      .      Toronto 

Do  you  know  Protect-O-Pads,  smart 
new  members  of  the  famous  Blue-jay 
family  of  foot  comforts?  These  trim  oval 
shields,  hollow-centered,  velvet-soft  yet 
tough,  guard  tender  spots  and  prevent 
corns,  calluses,  blisters.  Ask  your  drug- 
gist— or  send  10c  for  samples  to  Bauer 
&  Black,  2530  S.  Federal  St.,  Chicago. 


How  Ten  Stars  Overcame  Self- 
Consciousness 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  40  ] 


speak — is  probably  one  of  the  most  self-con- 
scious people  I  ever  have  met.  She  herself 
laughs  over  her  habit  of  spending  from  ten  to 
twenty  minutes  in  a  dressing-room  powdering 
her  already  perfectly  powdered  nose  because  she 
dreads  joining  parties  and  meeting  new  people. 

However,  out  of  this  intense  self-conscious- 
ness and  because  of  her  need  to  be  socially 
adequate  under  many  trying  conditions,  Alice 
has  discovered  a  trick  that  amounts  to  a  per- 
fect conversational  spring-board.  She  didn't 
know  about  this  herself,  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
until  Blanche  Sweet  called  her  attention  to  it. 
Blanche  became  aware  of  it  first  when  Virginia 
Valli  and  Charlie  Farrell  were  married  in  that 
little  Yonkers  parsonage  and  she  and  Alice 
stood  up  with  the  bride. 

"I  was  nervous  and  fidgety,"  Blanche  said, 
talking  of  the  wedding  one  day,  "but  it  didn't 
seem  to  me  that  anyone  shared  my  confusion. 
I  looked  over  at  Alice  and  she  seemed  especially 
cool  and  serene.  But  even  while  I  looked  at 
her,  admiring  her  calm,  she  turned  to  the 
minister  and  with  her  slow  smile  said,  'I'm 
sorry,  I  didn't  get  your  name.'  And  immedi- 
ately, in  one  of  those  rare  intuitive  flashes  we 
have  sometimes,  I  realized  Alice  always  used 
this  line  when  she  wanted  something  to  say, 
whether  she  knew  the  person's  name  or  not. 

"And  a  very  good  line  it  is,  too.  There's 
something  reassuring  about  the  sound  of  your 
own  voice.  I've  tried  it  since  with  excellent 
results." 

"I'm  sorry,  I  didn't  get  your  name"  would 
help.  If  it  did  nothing  else  it  would  give  you 
something  to  say.  And  something  to  say  or 
something  to  do  can  prove  a  great  big  asset. 
Stage  managers  always  give  the  players  who 
must  remain  on  the  stage  while  others  carry  on 
the  play's  action  some  trifling  business  which 
won't  obtrude  but  which  will  nevertheless 
occupy  them. 

Enthusiasm  Seen  as  Blessings 

"COR  the  same  reason,  enthusiasms  offer  a 
*-  perfect  escape.  Be  the  enthusiasm  tennis  or 
bridge,  backgammon  or  golf  it  can  so  absorb 
the  enthusiast  that  even  in  talking  about  it  she 
forgets  herself  entirely.  And  once  you  are  able 
to  forget  yourself  you  are  that  much  more 
likely  to  be  attractive.  All  of  which  is  a  little 
involved  but  I  trust  my  reader  will  make  an 
effort  to  follow  me. 

Who  next?    Let  us  consider  Mary  Astor. 

"I  was  painfully  self-conscious  in  the  old 
days  when  I  used  to  pose  for  photographers," 
Mary  has  told  me.  "If  there  was  anyone  in 
the  studio  watching  I  would  go  all  to  pieces — 
grow  awkward — simply  ruin  my  pose.  Finally 
I  made  up  my  mind  that  people  would  con- 
stantly be  in  and  out  and  that  if  I  didn't  adjust, 
if  I  kept  on  ruining  plates,  the  photographers 
simply  wouldn't  use  me.  So  I  used  to  say  to 
myself,  'Tend  to  business,  Mary.  Tend  to 
business.'  After  all,  posing  was  my  way  of 
earning  a  living  and  I  couldn't  permit  anything 
to  lessen  my  efficiency. 

"Later,  in  the  movie  studios,  I  resorted  to 
the  same  tactics.  And  again  they  saved  the 
day.  Putting  my  posing  on  a  business-like 
basis  I  can  convince  myself  that  I'm  not  being 
a  fool  before  onlookers  but  that  I  am  simply 
doing  my  job." 

This  point  of  view  also  can  be  taken  by  girls 
in  private  life.  After  all,  being  as  attractive  as 
possible  is  everyone's  job.  And  since  gauche, 
clumsy  manifestations  of  self-consciousness 
seriously  jeopardize  charm  we  may  all  say, 
with  Mary,  "Tend  to  business." 

Self-consciousness  is  nothing  more  and  noth- 
ing less  than  our  ego  on  parade.  It  is  born  of 
our  fear  that  others  won't  think  highly  enough 


of  us;  that  something  we  say  or  something  we 
do  or  something  we  wear  won't  present  an 
attractive  picture. 

Is  It  Cowardly  to  be  Self-conscious? 

TT  was  a  teacher  in  high-school  who  im- 
pressed Ricardo  Cortez  with  the  fact  that 
self-consciousness  is  related  very  closely  to  cow- 
ardice. 

"I'll  never  forget  that  teacher,"  said  Ric. 
"He  was  a  little  man  with  big  glasses.  Ander- 
sen was  his  name.  He  told  me  without  mincing 
matters  that  it  was  downright  cowardly  of  me 
to  be  self-conscious.  I  remember  I  was  very 
sensitive  on  the  subject  of  bravery  and  when  he 
made  me  see  his  point  of  view  he  had  helped 
me  immensely." 

Men  are  self-conscious  as  well  as  women. 
Which  is  something  worth  remembering  when 
you  find  yourself  with  some  simply  gr-and 
male.  Talk  about  something  calculated  to  in- 
terest him.  Be  maternal  by  helping  him 
forget  his  own  self-consciousness  and  the 
chances  are  he  will  think  of  you  as  one  of  the 
most  attractive  girls  in  the  world  forever  after 
■ — besides  which  this  will  help  you  to  forget 
yourself. 

Back  in  St.  Paul  they  made  Richard  Dix 
debate.  Rich  enjoyed  the  debating  part  of  it 
but  he  was  one  of  those  "all-hands-and-feet" 
boys  and  he  always  had  a  wretched  time  trying 
to  find  some  way  of  parking  said  impedimenta. 

"Then,"  explains  Rich,  "I  began  to  realize 
that  my  fellow-beings  were  basically  friendly — 
that  when  I  stood  before  them,  on  the  debating 
platform  or  in  some  living-room,  they  were 
ready  to  give  me  every  chance.  Even  if  they 
did  'razz'  me  I  was  convinced  there  was  no 
malice  in  it,  that  it  was  meant  in  fun  and  that 
if  I  allowed  my  feelings  to  be  hurt  it  was  in- 
evitable that  I  should  remember  the  episode 
long  after  everyone  else  concerned  had  for- 
gotten all  about  it. 

"I'm  sure  nothing  could  have  helped  me 
curb  my  self-consciousness  more  than  this  par- 
ticular, comforting  realization." 

That  Gary  Cooper  is  self-conscious  isn't  at 
all  surprising.  Great  big  Western  Gary,  born 
to  the  Montana  plains  and  forced  by  fate  into 
the  spotlight  and  some  of  the  most  famous 
drawing-rooms  both  here  and  abroad. 

"Sometimes,"  Gary  explained,  "my  self- 
consciousness  gets  positively  acute.  And  then 
again,  I'll  go  along  not  much  bothered  by  it  for 
a  long  time.  The  first  week  on  a  picture  is 
always  pretty  bad,  especially  if  I'm  working 
with  new  people.  But  I  use  the  same  remedy 
in  the  studio  that  I  use  when  I  find  myself  in  a 
bad  box  socially.  I  laugh  my  way  through.  I 
back  off  and  say  to  myself,  'Well  now,  this 
really  isn't  so  important.'  I've  tried  lots  cf 
other  remedies  but  nothing  helps  me  so  much 
as  minimizing  the  importance  of  the  occasion." 

Sense  of  Competition  a  Help 

LILYAN  TASHMAN,  on  the  other  hand, 
calls  her  sense  of  competition  into  play, 
quelling  any  threatening  self-consciousness  by 
saying  to  herself,  rather  furiously,  "If  others 
can  be  confident  and  poised,  so  can  I.  Am 
I  stupid?  Am  I  any  less  mistress  of  myself 
than  they  are?  "  And  in  this  way  she  literally 
whips  herself  into  a  satisfactory  calmness. 

Estelle  Taylor  had  the  worst  siege  of  self- 
consciousness  she  ever  remembers  one  evening 
when  she  was  to  address  a  group  of  writers. 

"I  sat  there  and  was  miserable,"  Estelle 
says.  "I  wondered  what  had  possessed  me  to 
attempt  such  a  thing.  I  felt  I  had  nothing  to 
say  that  these  people  didn't  already  know.  I 
began  to  feel  that  everyone  in  the  room  was 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


107 


staring  at  me,  prejudiced  about  me  before  I 
began.  My  hands  had  never  been  so  large 
before. 

"  Finally,  way  over  in  a  corner,  I  spied  a  dull, 
meek  looking  person.  I  realized  she  might  be 
most  estimable  in  many  ways  but  I  was  also 
satisfied  that  she  would  prove  a  reassuring 
audience.  So  I  addressed  my  speech  to  her. 
I  thought  of  her  only  when  I  got  up  and  while 
I  was  talking. 

"It  is  possible  to  do  the  same  thing  in  a 
social  group.  I  have  tried  it  since — I've  found 
someone  who  didn't  impress  me  at  all  and  kept 
them  in  mind  until  I  had  found  my  bearings 
and  recovered  from  the  first  strangeness  that  is 
the  worst  part  of  parties. 

"Helping  others  you  know  to  be  suffering 
from  even  more  acute  self-consciousness  than 
you  experience  is,  of  course,  a  great  boon.  It 
was,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  when  Jack  and  I  were 
first  married  and  I  was  attempting  to  help  him 
overcome  his  self-consciousness  that  I  made 
the  greatest  strides  in  this  direction  myself." 

Help  Others  and  You  Help  Yourself 

"  f~~*  ET  up  on  the  fence  and  watch  yourself  go 
^^by"  our  well-meaning  and  often  short- 
sighted elders  used  to  tell  us.  It  was  the  old- 
fashioned  idea  to  keep  children  from  growing 
conceited,  to  tell  them  they  weren't  especially 
pretty  or  bright  or  graceful.  No  wonder, 
brought  up  like  this,  we  are  a  self-conscious 
generation. 

Corinne  Griffith  thinks  instead  of  getting  up 
on  that  old,  well-known  fence  and  watching 
ourselves  go  by  it  is  a  good  plan  to  watch 
others  pass  from  that  vantage  point. 

Corinne  often  has  said  to  me,  "  I'm  sure  it  is 
because  we  go  through  life  forever  thinking  of 
everybody  else  in  the  world  as  our  audience 
that  we  become  self-conscious  and  remain  self- 
conscious.  It's  a  thousand  times  more  com- 
fortable to  place  yourself  in  the  position  of  the 
audience.  In  this  way  you  come  to  realize  that 
Lizzie  Jitt  laughs  to  cover  her  confusion — that 
Larry  Doe  fiddles  with  his  tie  when  he's  em- 
barrassed— and  so  on.  I  don't  mean  this 
observing  should  be  done  in  a  critical  sense, 
rather  with  sympathy  and  understanding. 

"Certainly  it  was  the  acquisition  of  this  per- 
spective that  helped  me  overcome  my  self- 
consciousness.  And  then,  of  course,  realizing 
that  others  were  ill  at  ease  I  tried  to  help  them 
and  succeeded  in  helping  myself  as  well." 

Which  is  pretty  much  what  Estelle  said 
about  having  helped  herself  in  her  endeavor  to 
help  Jack. 

All  Remedies  Must  Be  Mextal 

A  LL  the  remedies  the  stars  suggest  are  men- 
*Mal,  you'll  notice.  Which  is  as  it  should 
be,  since  the  basis  and  cause  of  all  self-con- 
sciousness is  entirely  mental  regardless  of  the 
fact  that  it  takes  many  unpleasant  physical 
manifestations,  resulting  in  nervous  tics  and 
speech  defects  such  as  stammering,  stuttering, 
lisping  and  even  some  forms  of  being  tongue- 
tied.  Blushing,  in  fact — and  this  only  when 
done  in  moderation — is  the  one  and  only  symp- 
tom of  self-consciousness  that  ever  has  been 
looked  upon  with  any  favor. 

It  seems  perfectly  ridiculous,  doesn't  it,  to 
think  of  ninety  per  cent  of  the  population,  con- 
servatively speaking,  going  about  more  or  less 
uncomfortable  all  the  time  because  of  their 
fear  that  they  won't  measure  up.  So  much 
unnecessary  suffering  is  experienced  because 
people  insist  upon  feeling  themselves  the  axis 
for  everything  that  goes  on  within  sight  or 
sound  of  them — convinced  when  people  laugh 
they  are  laughing  at  them — convinced  when 
people  talk  they  are  talking  about  them — and 
that  when  people  frown  they  are  frowning  at 
them. 

The  more  you  think  about  it  the  more 
ridiculous  it  becomes.  Every  minute  of  the 
time  in  every  country  of  the  world  hundreds  of 
people  are  entering  rooms  heartsick  lest  they 
fail  to  appear  to  good  advantage.  Lovely 
young  girls  are  less  lovely  because,  standing 


HOW  TIMES 


&  «-«r 


HAVE  CHANGED 


ouog 


beau 


t\es 
-met 


{eat  oi  *  tt°K    ,  brust.  B*  *0uVl 

everv  ********  *  **"     ^d  «*«<»* 


IN  THIS  DAY  AND  AGE.  it  is  now  the 
fashion  to  keep  young  for  today,  tomorrow 
and  forever.  And  to  do  this  one  must  exer- 
cise not  only  the  body  but  the  face  as  well. 
That's  why  WR I G LEY'S  DOUBLE  MINT 
is  so  popular  ...  It  deliciously  affords  the 
extra  facial  exercise  (in  addition  to  meal- 
time chewing)  that  Science  insists  is 
necessary  for  retaining  youthful  contours 
of  the  face  and  lovely  lips. 

INEXPENSIVE   •  SATISFYING 


io8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


It's  so  important  . . .  the  purity  of  pow- 
der ingredients.  For  only  a  pure  pow- 
der can  bring  you  a  lovely  complexion. 

Stop  and  think  a  minute.  Is  your  skin 
ever  dry  or  irritated?  Doesyourpowder 
ever  cake,  and  so  enlarge  your  pores? 

To  be  safe,  you  should  use  Luxor  .  . . 
the  pure,  satin-smooth  face-powder. 
We  mix  it  in  our  own  laboratories,  then 
sieve  it  through  layers  of  silk.  We  tint 
it  and  scent  it,  and  sift  it  as  fine  as  mist. 

Luxor  will  blend  into  your  skin,  and 
delicately  cling  for  hours.  Make  your 
face  smooth  and  soft  as  the  petal  of  a 
flower.  And  it  will  brighten  your  com- 
plexion with  a  fresh,  new  bloom  of 
beauty  .  .  .  brought  by  Luxor  purity. 

Luxor  products  are  not  costly — the 
face-powder  50c  a  box,  rouge  50c,  and 
lipstick  50c.  Luxor,  Ltd.,  1355  West 
31st  Street,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

Tear   off,   enclose  ten  cents  for  generous  sample 
of  powder.     Check— Rachel  Q,  Flesh  □,  White  D. 
PP-10-2 
Name 

Address 

Luxor.  Ltd. 


beside  attractive  young  men,  they  find  their 
throats  so  constricted  that  it  would  be  physi- 
cally impossible  for  them  to  speak  if  they  could, 
in  their  panic,  think  of  anything  to  say. 

An  Ingenious  and  Startling  Cure 

Which  brings  us  to  Claudette  Colbert's  in- 
genious and  startling  remedy  for  escaping  any 
such  fate. 

"As  soon  as  I  discovered  how  prevalent  self- 
consciousness  is  and  realized  that  even  most  of 
those  who  seem  poised  are  actually  fidgeting 
underneath,"  says  Claudette,  "I  made  up  my 
mind  to  take  advantage  of  this  general  absorp- 
tion in  self  to  have  a  good  time — satisfied 
nobody  was  paying  much  attention  to  me. 

"It  seems  so  stupid,  so  utterly  stupid,  to  go 
about  being  miserable  for  fear  people  aren't 
thinking  well  enough  of  you  or  for  fear  you  may 
not  be  getting  by  for  one  reason  or  another 


when  nine  out  of  every  ten  people  are  too 
occupied  with  the  misery  of  their  own  self- 
consciousness  to  consider  you  at  all. 

"Of  course  it  took  me  a  long  time  to  con- 
vince myself  that  this  was  really  the  case,  but 
once  I  succeeded  in  doing  this  I  had  my  self- 
consciousness  pretty  well  in  hand." 

Unfortunately  there  is  no  sleight  of  hand  we 
can  perform  or  no  magic  words  we  can  say  that 
will  leave  us  poised  and  serene.  But  it  does 
seem  that  no  matter  how  difficult  the  process 
of  overcoming  self-consciousness  may  prove  it 
is  well  worth  while.  It  means  liberation  from 
a  wretched  and  humiliating  sensation.  It 
means  a  very  real  step  towards  becoming  as 
attractive  as  it  is  possible  for  us  to  be.  Which 
in  turn,  means  we  have  laid  a  pretty  satisfac- 
tory and  solid  foundation  for  anything  else  we 
aim  to  attempt.  Essentially,  judging  from  the 
remedies  of  the  stars,  overcoming  self -conscious- 
ness is  entirely  a  matter  of  thinking  right. 


He's  Not  So  Dumb 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  33 


— not  at  first  sight,  certainly,  for  they'd  seen 
each  other  around  the  lot  for  a  year. 

"But  that  day,  I  knew  it  was  something 
different.  I  didn't  admit  to  myself  that  it  was 
love,"  says  June,  seriously  now,  "but  I  knew 
I'd  never  felt  that  way  about  any  man  before. 
I  had  liked  men  and  had  found  some  men  more 
charming  than  others.  But  I  had  never  been 
in  love  in  my  life — until  Stu  came  along." 

What  about  Stu?  you  ask. 

Well,  Stu  was  never  what  could  be  called  a 
"ladies'  man."  Maybe  the  girls  thought  he 
was  too  dumb,  after  seeing  him  on  the  screen, 
and  stayed  uninterested.  Or  maybe  Stu  just 
wasn't  interested  in  girls.  It's  a  fact,  you  see, 
that  Stu  had  always  sworn  that  he'd  never 
get  married — not  for  years  and  years  and  years, 
all  the  pretty  women  in  Hollywood  not  with- 
standing! He  carried  the  obsession  so  far  that 
he  was  boasting  about  it  in  a  New  York  speak- 
easy one  day  a  couple  of  years  ago. 

"Bah!"  snorted  another  man  in  the  party. 
"I'll  bet  you  are  married  within  five  years!" 

"You're  nuts,"  snarled  Stu.  "I'll  take  that 
— and  what's  more,  I'll  lay  you  four  to  one  that 
I'm  not  even  married  in  seven  years!" 

""T\ONE,"  grinned  the  other,  and  pulled  out 
-L^his  wallet.  He  had  $200  in  it.  Stu  had  to 
make  good.  He  posted  his  $800  to  cover  the 
odds.  That  was  a  year  and  a  half  before  his 
wedding.  The  other  day  Stu  mailed  a  check  for 
$800  to  the  man  in  New  York.  "But  it  was 
worth  it,"  he  said,  while  June,  across  the  table 
from  him,  beamed. 

Well,  the  romance  of  Stu  and  June  went  on 
much  more  quietly  than  other  Hollywood 
romances.  But  none  the  less  warmly.  And,  in 
midsummer,  June  confided  to  one  or  two  very 
close  friends  that  she  and  Stu  were  going  to  be 
married  in  the  fall!  Strangely  enough,  those 
friends  kept  her  secret. 

"We  couldn't  set  any  wedding  date,  because 
we  were  both  working,  and  didn't  know  when 
we'd  get  time  to  marry,"  they  explain.  That's 
the  trouble  with  Hollywood  romances — work 
interferes  so!  But  they  got  a  lucky  break — a 
picture  Stu  was  working  in  at  M-G-M  was 
stopped  in  mid-production  for  some  reason  or 
other.  And  it  so  happened  that  June  was  not 
working  in  a  picture. 

That  was  in  late  July.  One  afternoon,  June 
and  Stu,  at  the  beach,  suddenly  realized  that 
neither  would  be  working  for  ten  days  to  come. 
Without  a  word,  the  same  thought  struck  them 
simultaneously.  They  looked  into  each  other's 
eyes  for  a  long  moment.  .  .  .  Stu's  were 
questioning,  June's  swimming.  Then  she 
nodded.    That  was  all. 

"He  never  proposed,"  she  said.  " Do  people 
ever  really  get  down  on  their  knees  and  pro- 
pose? " 


June  and  Stu  hurried  to  her  Beverly  Hills 
house.  They  told  her  two  brothers.  They 
packed  a  few  things  in  fierce  haste  and  flung 
them  into  Stu's  car.  At  nine  that  night,  the 
two  of  them,  with  June's  brothers,  started  for 
Yuma,  Arizona. 

"We'll  get  married  quietly.  Nobody '11  know 
until  we  come  back  in  a  few  days  and  tell 
them,"  they  gloated. 

What  a  wedding  trip  that  turned  out  to  be! 
Out  on  the  desert,  the  thermometer  over  100 
degrees  even  at  midnight,  they  ran  into  a 
cloudburst  that  stalled  them  for  hours  because 
they  couldn't  see  beyond  the  hood  of  the  car. 
Then  a  sandstorm  hit  them,  and  June  swore 
she'd  die.  So  Stu  got  out  of  the  driver's  seat, 
comforted  June  in  the  tonneau,  and  let  one  of 
her  brothers  drive.  Tires  blew  out  with  the 
heat;  the  car  boiled  furiously;  and  Stu  fell 
asleep! 

The  sun  came  up  as  they  were  an  hour  or  two 
out  of  Yuma.  Sunrise  on  the  desert  is  gorgeous. 
Colors  that  no  painter  ever  found  on  his  palette 
create  a  gorgeous  spectacle.  June,  drowned 
in  romance  on  her  bridal  morning,  nudged  Stu, 
asleep  with  his  head  on  her  shoulder. 

"  Stu,  darling — Stu — look,  this  gorgeous  sun- 
rise," she  whispered. 

Stu  opened  one  eye.  The  light  hurt  it.  "Aw, 
I've  seen  the  sun  before,"  he  muttered,  and 
went  back  to  sleep. 

"I  married  him — even  after  that,"  laughs 
June.  "And  that  proves  that  I'm  in  love  with 
him." 

A  few  hours  later,  with  the  thermometer 
reading  108,  a  judge  married  them  in  the  Yuma 
courthouse.  June  and  Stu  hurried  to  a  hotel 
for  a  breakfast  and  to  plan  their  honeymoon. 
A  half  hour  later,  the  telephone  in  their  room 
began  shrilling  furiously. 

"What's  going  on  here?"  thundered  the 
hotel  keeper.  "I  gotta  call  from  Hollywood 
says  you  two  are  Stuart  Erwin  and  June 
Collyer  and  there'll  be  no  Hollywood  goings-on 
in  this  hotel!"  It  seems  Stu,  in  an  effort  to 
dodge  newspaper  people,  had  signed  the  hotel 
register  "Mr.  and  Mrs.  Philip  Erwin" — Philip 
being  his  middle  name. 

THEY  didn't  have  much  trouble  explaining 
that  they'd  just  been  married — but  the  cat 
was  out  of  the  bag.  Across  the  country,  the 
news  wires  carried  the  story — and  their  plans 
for  secrecy  were  shot  sky-high.  But  they  did 
manage  to  escape  to  Del  Mar  by  the  Sea  for  a 
quiet  honeymoon  where  no  one  found  them  for 
two  days— and  then  they  came  back  to  Holly- 
wood for  the  congratulations. 

It  was  by  telephone,  from  Yuma  to  Chicago, 
that  June  told  her  parents  of  her  marriage. 
June's  an  ex-New  York-debutante.  For  the 
first  few  moments,  her  marriage  to  a  movie 


actor  shocked  mama  and  papa  no  end.  But 
then  they  realized  that  June's  happiness  was 
the  paramount  issue,  and  parental  blessings 
hummed  over  the  2,000  miles  of  telephone  wire 
between  Yuma  and  Chicago,  where  June's 
folks  were  on  their  way  to  Hollywood. 

And  there's  the  story.  Some  Hollywood 
crabby-tongues  muttered  that  the  elopement 
was  just  a  publicity  stunt.  The  fact  is  that  not 
even  the  publicity  department  of  Paramount, 
where  Stu  is  under  contract,  nor  June's  own 
personal  press-agent  knew  of  the  wedding  until 
they  heard  of  it  from  Los  Angeles  newspapers! 
No,  June  and  Stu  were  married  for  love — and 
that's  sort  of  hard  for  Hollywood  to  grasp,  all 
at  once.  Love  like  theirs  is  the  kind  that 
flowers  in  your  home  town — Hollywood  sees  it 
so  rarely! 

'"THEY'RE  living  in  a  little  apartment  now. 
■*■  June  has  given  up  the  big  Beverly  Hills 
house  where  she  lived  with  her  brothers.  They 
prefer  love-in-an-apartment,  where  June  is 
doing  a  lot  of  the  housekeeping  herself.  She 
cooks  breakfast  for  Stu!    And  are  they  happy? 

"Yeah — I  fell  for  her  on  my  birthday — but 
it's  the  swellest  birthday  present  I  ever  had," 
grins  Stu. 

"I  fell  in  love  with  him  on  Saint  Valentine's 
Day.  He's  the  sweetest  Valentine  I  ever  got," 
smiles  June. 

Good  Lord,  what  are  you  going  to  do  with 
kids  like  that? 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 

THE      THRILLING 


109 


October  brides  who  haven't  picked 
their  wedding  gowns  yet,  can  well 
afford  to  copy  this  stunning  one  Kay 
Francis  wears  in  "24  Hours."  The 
white  satin  is  made  on  simple 
moulded  lines;  its  sole  ornamentation 
is  pearl  beading  worked  in  a  Grecian 
key  motif  on  bodice  and  train.  The 
tulle  veil  has  the  same  pearl  trimming 


»- 


HALF-FACE'TEST 


lllli      REVEALED     THE      TRUE      SECRET 


OF      SKIM       LOVELINESS 


Under  the  Constant  Supervision  of  15  Leading  Der- 
matologists, 612  Women  Compare  Skin  Care  Methods 
.  .  .  and   Find  the  Real   Road   to  Complexion   Beauty. 


On  one  side  of  the  face  .  .  .  skin  care 
with  any  soap,  cream  or  lotion.  On  the 
other  side . . .  treatment  with  Woodbury's 
Facial  Soap  alone. 

This  dramatic  test  was  made  .  .  .  under 
15  dermatologists  ...  on  612  skins  of  all 
types  and  of  every  age  from  15  to  50. 

After  30  days,  Woodbury's  had  corrected 
103  blackhead  conditions;  in  106  cases 
remedied  acne;  in  115  cases  reduced 
oihness;  in  83  cases  shrunk,  enlarged 
pores;  in  81  cases  made  the  skin  less  dry. 
Even  "normal"  complexions  found  finer 
texture,  a  more  velvety  smoothness,  a 
fresh  bloom  under  the  gentle,  soothing 


stimulus  of  Woodbury's    Facial    Soap. 

No  other  cleansing  agent  .  .  .  soap  or 
cream  or  lotion  .  .  .  noticeably  helped 
either  faulty  or  normal  skin. 

It  would  be  hard  to  ascribe  such  wonder- 
working powers  to  a  soap,  but  Wood- 
bury's is  more  than  a  mere  soap;  it  is 
a  scientific  beauty  treatment,  made  from 
oils  and  balms  too  fine  and  too  costly  to 
be  used  in  an  ordinary  toilet  soap. 

Millions  of  women  have  found  skin  love- 
liness through  Woodbury's.  Begin  today 
to  see  what  a  30-day  Woodbury  treat- 
ment will  do  for  your  complexion. 


COUPON 


BEAUTY 


P     E 

o 


R     S     O     N     A    L 
VICE 


JOHN  H.  WOODBIRY.  INC. 
810  Alfred  St.,  Cincinnati,  O. 

In  Canada,  John  H.  Woodbury,  Ltd.,  Perth,  Ontario 
I  would  like  advice  on  my  skin  condition  as  checked  be- 
low,  also  trial   cake   of  Woodbury's    Facial   Soap   and 
generous  sample  of  Woodbury's  Cold  Cream  and  Facial 
Cream  and  Facial  Powder.  For  this  I  enclose  io*. 
Oily  Skin  D  Flabby  Skin   □  Sallow  Skin  □ 

Dry  Skin  D  Coarse  Pores  Q  Pimples         □ 

Wrinkles  □  Blackheads      □ 

Namt 


Address^ 


©  1951,  John  H.  Woodbury,  Ioc- 


I  IO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


EATON,    CRANE    &    PIKE 

announce  THE  WINNERS  of  the 

LETTER  WRITING 
CONTEST  for   1931 

Grand  Prize  $1000 
mr.  clarence  m.  harter 

1724  Oxley  Street  South  Pasadena,  California 

LETTERS     OF    CONGRATULATION 

1st  PRIZE  Si  50.00  (as  above) 

2nd  PRIZE  $50.00  Grace  Maxine  HoIIoway 

426  E.  5th  Street,  Dallas,  Texas 

3rd  PRIZE  $25.00  Mrs.  Marshall  L.  Matthews 

Germanton,  N.  C. 

WEEK-END   INVITATIONS 

1st  PRIZE  $150.00  Helen  M.  Carlson 

191  N.  4th  Street,  St.  Helens,  Ore. 
and  PRIZE  $50.00  Mary  Jane  Paumier 

823  Forest  Drive,  Wooster,  Ohio 

3rd  PRIZE  $25.00  Edward  Wilson  Benington 

Hotel  Margaret,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

THANK-YOU  LETTERS 

1st  PRIZE  $150.00  Alliene  Saeger  DeChant 

Hanover,  Pennsylvania 
2nd  PRIZE  $50.00  Nina  E.  Allender 

900  19th  Street,  Washington,  D.  C. 

3rd  PRIZE  $25.00  Hazel  O'Hara 

2002  W.  Genessee  Street,  Syracuse,  N.  Y. 

$15.00  PRIZES 

Harriet  M.  Woolslair,  Fore  Myers,  Fla.;  Mrs  H.  E.  Russell,  Endi- 
cocc,  N.  Y.;  Mrs  Frank  Moore,  Chicago,  III.;  Mr.  O.  F.  Bre&ee, 
Riverside,  Calif.;  Mrs.  Ralph  E.  Allen,  Seattle,  Wash.;  Mrs.  A. 
F.  G.  Raikes,  St.  Louis,  Mo.;  Miss  Rawena  Dcvine,  Duluth, 
Minn.;  Ann  Fulton,  Gilroy,  Calif.;  Catherine  Poli,  Detroit, 
Mich.;  John  Gibson  Bliss,  Needham,  Mass.;  Emelyn  Paige, 
New  York  City;  Mary  Smith  Martin,  Tientsin,  China;  Miss 
Ada  May  Cromwell,  Jert,  K.y.;  Miss  Meredith  Evans,  St.  Louis, 
Mo.;  Helen  Holt,  Jacksonville,  Fla. 

$10.00  PRIZES 

Mrs.  A.  F.  G.  Raikes,  St.  Louis,  Mo.;  Alton  B.  Moody,  Berkeley, 
Calif.;  Evelina  Bclden  Paulson,  Oak  Park,  111.;  Dr.  W.  Mahlon 
Adams,  Seattle,  Wash.;  Mrs.  Ralph  E.  Allen,  Seattle,  Wash.;  Mrs. 
Dudley  V.  Beard,  Yazoo  City,  Miss.;  Robert  Melville,  Barber- 
ton,  O.;  Mrs.  Woodson  Pollard,  Norfolk,  Va.;  Elizabeth  Wilson, 
Detroit,  Mich.;  Herriette  Guodlach,  Houghton,  Mich.;  Mrs. 
Marshall  Laurence  Matthews,  Germanton,  N.  C;  Miss  Addis  E. 
Wait,  Lincoln,  Nebr.;  Rose  Newman,  Jensen,  Fla.;  Mrs.  Davis 
Bcnning,  Louisiana,  Mo. 

$5.00  PRIZES 
Mrs.  Charles  Beach,  Dubuque,  la.;  Mrs.  Benjamin  Conant,  East 
Pembroke,  Mass.;  Gertrude  Ann  Luhman,  St.  Paul,  Minn.;  Hazel 
O'Hara,  Syracuse,  N.  Y.;  E.  Elizabeth  Horner,  Indianapolis,  Ind.; 
Helen  S.  Stevenson,  Pasadena,  Calif.;  Mrs.  Marion  L.  Huerlin, 
Spokane,  Wash.;  Mrs.  Betty  W.  Henry,  Hilo,  Hawaii;  Barry  W. 
Ncill,  Chicago,  III.;  Mrs.  J.  Gordon  Morgan,  Van  Wert,  O.; 
Marguerite  E.  Waldron,  Miami  Beach,  Fla.;  Mrs.  Suzann  Pierson, 
Paris,  France;  Mrs.  H.  M.  Shipley,  Sausalito,  Calif.;  Mrs.  Sam 
Miller,  Lindsay,  Calif.;  Miss  Lamar  Crosley,  Annapolis,  Md.;Miss 
Augusta  E.  Mclntyre,  Rochester,  N.  Y. ;  Mrs.  Wm.  A.  Robbins,  New 
York;Mrs.  WallaceR.  Evans,  Capeville,  Va.;  Nannie  Sue  Mclver. 
Charlotte,  N.C.;  Mrs.  F.  P.  Maize,  Pasadena,  Calif.;  Shirley  Brown, 
Onset,  Mass.;  Mrs.  Lillian  Nanassy,  Fontana,  Calif.;  Miss  Claire 
Cowgill,  Los  Angeles,  Calif.;  Mrs.  Harold  S.  Laity,  East  Orange, 
New  Jersey;  Miss  Martha  E.  Hazzard,  Peoria,  111.;  Nancy 
MacDonald,  Ridgway,  Pa.;  Catharine  Cranmer,  Hindman,  Knotc 
Co.,  Ky.;  Miss  Helen  M.  Dorcmus,  Tacoma,  Wash.;  Miss  Kath- 
crinc  Ward,  New  York  City;  Mrs.  Jcannctce  Field,  Mason,  Mich. 

Along  the  highroad  of  life,    use 

EATON'S   HIGHLAND 

WRITING      PAPERS 

Eaton,  Crane  &  Pike  Co.,  Pittsfield,  Mass. 


Hair 


OFF  BE 


Chin 

I  once  looked  like  this.  Ugly  hair 
Un  loved    on  'aco  ■  ■  ■  "n'oved  •  •  .discouraged. 

Tried  depilatories,  waxes,  pastes, 
liquids,  electricity — even  a  razor.  Then  I  discovered 
a  simple,  painless,  inexpensive  method.  It  worked! 
Thousands  have  won  beauty  and  love  with  the  secret. 
My  Free  Book,  "Getting  Rid  of  All  Ugly,  Superfluous 
Hair,"  explains  the  method  and  proves  actual  success. 
Mailed  in  plainenvelope.  Also  trial  offer.  Noobligation. 
Money  back  if  not  satisfied.  Write  Mile.  Annette 
Lanzette,   109  W.  Austin   Ave.,  Dept.  784,  Chicago. 


High  School  Course 
in  2  Years 


iri.i.l.-   of   two 


l  ou  can  complete 

this   simplified   High 
School  Course  at  home 

luircmenti  tor  .ntr.net    to  coll.'lc 

find     thirty. »n     other     pt&i  !ir*l 

Bulletin,     fend    (or    it    TODAY. 


AMERICAN 

Oepl.  H-743    n....l  A...  *  *Bth  St 


SCHOOL 

©  AS  1923      CI 


To  An  Unknown 
Actor 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  70  ] 

Farnum.  I  lasso  him — not  the  horse." 
The  next  day  he  had  news  that  the  expected 
heir  was  a  boy.  J.  Gordon  Edwards,  Farnum's 
director,  made  it  possible  for  Pete  to  make  a 
flying  trip  to  Los  Angeles  and  someone  passed 
round  the  hat,  which  came  back  to  him  heavy 
with  material  evidence  of  congratulation. 

I  left  Hollywood  shortly  after  that  and  it  was 
years  before  I  returned.  I  went  on  location 
with  "The  Virginian"  to  write  an  account  of 
the  goings-on,  and  there  was  Pete  busy  with 
dozens  of  horses  and  a  thousand  head  of  cattle 
for  the  stampede.  "Hi,  Pete!"  I  hailed  him. 
His  face  broke  into  a  flashing  smile. 
"Miss  Helen.  You  come  back,  yes?" 
"How's  every  little  thing,  Pete?  That  boy 
must  be  in  long  pants  by  now." 

He  chuckled.  "  Pretty  soon.  He  got  a  sister 
now.  Times  very  good  for  me.  Plenty  work." 
He  had  been  trying  in  the  old  days  to  get  on 
the  regular  pay-roll,  not  just  to  be  engaged  by 
the  picture,  and  he  had  succeeded.  The  last 
time  I  saw  him  was  in  the  Dick  Barthelmess 
picture  "The  Lash,"  riding  like  a  madman  all 
over  the  place,  no  time  to  talk,  but  he  waved 
his  hat  and  greeted  me  with  the  old  flashing 
smile  as  he  dashed  past  where  I  sat  beside  the 
directorial  chair,  occupied  by  Frank  Lloyd  on 
this  occasion. 

PETE'S  method  of  teaching  people  how  to 
ride  was  simple  and  sure.  He  took  them  out 
every  day  for  two  or  three  hours,  making  them 
walk  the  horse.  A  week  of  this  and  they  had 
become  accustomed  to  the  motion  of  the  animal 
and  were  then  ready  to  do  anything,  gallop  or 
trot. 

They  "had  their  seat,"  the  most  important 
asset  to  good  horsemanship.  That  acquired, 
the  rest  was  easy. 

He  was  one  of  those  people  who  always  seem 
to  be  on  hand  when  someone  is  in  trouble. 
Riding  the  hills  one  afternoon  before  his  advent 
into  pictures  he  passed  a  tiny  cabin  far  from 
habitation  of  any  sort. 

Although  there  was  no  one  in  sight  he 
thought  he  heard  someone  moaning  and 
stopped  to  investigate. 

A  very  young  woman  lay  on  a  trundle  bed  in 
an  agony  of  child  birth.  Her  husband  had  gone 
for  the  doctor  but  it  would  be  morning  before 
he  could  return.  Pete  decided  that  all  would  be 
over  long  before  that  time.  Gently  he  asked 
the  suffering  girl  whether  she  would  allow  him 
to  help  her.  In  a  crisis  of  this  sort,  human 
nature  accepts  unquestioningly  the  goods  the 
gods  provide. 

Relief  slowly  replaced  the  look  of  fear  in 
her  dark  eyes  and  she  whispered,  "Do — do 
you  think  you  could?" 

And  just  as  he  had  so  many  hundreds  of 
times  assisted  his  ewes  to  lamb,  he  delivered 
this  human  mother  of  a  lusty  man  child. 

Books  he  knew  nothing  of. 

He  was  that  finer  thing,  Nature's  true 
nobleman. 

Adios,  Pedro  Leon. 


Long  Hair  or  Short? 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  30  ] 

time  she  buys  a  new  hat,  Lita  Chevret  may  go 
without  one  when  she  gets  disgusted — but  the 
average  person  will  just  cut  several  inches  off 
her  hair  and  let  it  go  at  that. 

Changing  styles  in  fashion,  and  differing 
ideas  of  individuals  have  made  the  Hollywood 
hairdressers,   as   well  as   those   all   over   the 


Joan  Blondel,  Warner  Bros,  and  Vitaphone 
1'ictures  Star,  one  of  the  Fairest  of  the  Fair. 

Like  the  fair  women  of  Holly- 
wood, adored  by  millions,  you 
too  can  win  admiration  with 
the  subtle  allure  and  fragrance 
of  Fair-est. 


FAIR-EST 

"The  Natural  Cosmetics" 

CREATED  in  HOLLYWOOD  for  the 
FAIREST  of  the   FAIR 

Rouge,  Face  Powder,  Perfume,  Dust- 
ing Powder,  Bath  Salts,  Complete  Set 
at  your  dealer— $2.50. 


THE  FAIREST   CO. 
HOLLYWOOD 

501  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York 


Quick  Wary  to  COLOR 

CFftYHAll 

'    Discriminating  women  the 
world  over  use  only  B.  Paul's 
Henna  Compound   to   impart 
color  to  gray  hair.  ONE  BRIEF 
APPLICATION    returns  color 
with    glorious    glints   of  youth 
Dainty — easy  to  apply  at  home 
by  anyone.    Try  it — see   what  a 
beautifying  transformation  it  affects.    Never 
affected    by    oils,    tonics,    waving,    previous 
dyes,    Turkish  or  Sea  baths.    Does  not  stain 
scalp,  wash  or  rub  off.  Sold  over  16  years. 
14  Shades,  Black  to  Blonde.  Price  $1.10  P.P. 
B.  PAUL'S  WHITE  PASTE  (Formerly  Called) 
"White  Henna"  for  lightening  blonde  hair 
grown  dark.  Price  $2.25  Post  Paid. 
Free  Advice  and  Booklet 
Mon.B.Paul,Dept.5-X  21W.39thSt.,N.Y. 

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAl 


Beautifully  Developed 

IS  FASHION'S  DECREE-o/h//. 
rounded  form  of  feminine  grace  and 
charm.  If  you  are  flat-chested  and 
unattractive,  investigate  the 
National  Developer.  Sold 
for  fifteen  years — praised  by 
hundreds.  Write  for  booklet, 
"BEAUTY  CURVES  DE- 
VELOPED," sent  FREE 
— no  obligation. 

THE  OLIVE  COMPANY 
Dept.  P  Manitou,  Colo. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


I  I  I 


country,  realize  that  they  have  to  conjure  up 
ingenious  ways  to  arrange  growing  or  longer 
hair. 

CURLS,  carefully  arranged  twists  across  the 
back  of  the  head,  a  neat  curled  roll,  and  the 
small  chignon,  therefore,  are  the  newest  hair 
twists  on  or  off  the  screen.  To  make  the  new 
hats  look  properly  dramatic,  stars  are  brushing 
the  hair  softly  back  and  up  on  the  head- 
revealing  side. 

They  do  soft,  flattering  things  with  the  odd 
ends  in  the  back. 

Ina  Claire  was  'way  ahead  of  the  procession 
last  Spring  when  she  appeared  at  a  New  York 
first  night  with  fluffy  bangs  and  curls  at  the 
back  of  her  neck. 

She  looked  for  all  the  world  like  an  old 
daguerreotype. 

Now  she  brushes  the  bangs  straight  back  off 
her  forehead. 

TF  you  saw  Marion  Shilling  in  ''The  Common 
-'-Law,"  you  couldn't  help  but  notice  what 
she  did  with  her  long  hair  in  an  evening 
scene. 

She  was  wearing  a  quaint  looking  evening 
gown,  so  to  emphasize  it,  she  piled  her  dark 
curls  up  on  the  top  of  her  head.  The  result  was 
decidedly  individual. 

It  isn't  just  a  case  of  "to  grow  or  not  to  grow" 
with  the  stars;  it  is  a  case  of  having  a  dis- 
tinctive coiffure  that  will  be  attuned  to  their 
screen  personalities. 


The  true  dramatic  flavor  of  the  new 
fashions  is  caught  in  the  costumes 
which  Lynn  Fontanne  wears  in  the 
screen  version  of  her  great  stage  suc- 
cess, "The  Guardsman."  This  black 
velvet  and  silver  cloth  gown  is  a 
striking  example  of  it.  The  silver 
cloth  tunic  and  the  unusual  sleeves 
which  flare  from  the  shoulders  to 
tight  cuffs  are  reminiscent  of  another 
fashion  era 


cO^ 


*** 


JL\)  minutes  reading  will  make 
your  whole  life  more  enjoyable 


.  .  .  .  384,000  men  and 
women  have  sent  for  this 


BECAUSE  baths 
can  help  us  so 
much  in  everyday 
living,    The    Book     free  book  about  baths 

About  Baths  is   a 
most  valuable  booklet.    It  tells  all 
about  baths,  what  kind  to  take  and 
when  and  how  to  take  them. 

For  instance,  there  is  the  icake-up 
bath  or  energizer  described  on  page  6. 
It  turns  dull,  tired  mornings  into 
bright  and  cheerful  ones.  It  starts 
warm  and  ends  with  a  quick  cold 
splash. 

Another  popular  one  is  the  after- 
work  freshener.  It  soothes  tired 
nerves,  brings  new  energy;  makes 
evenings  more  enjoyable. 

Then  there's  a  bath  to  ward  off        now.    Use  cou- 
colds,  a  bath  to  bring  sound  sleep,        pon  below. 


and  one  for  after- 
exercise.  For  each 
one  The  Book  About 
Baths  gives  many 
suggestions  (tem- 
perature, toweling,  soaping). 

After  you  have  read  this  unusual 
booklet  we  think  you'll  appreciate 
baths  as  you  never  have  before. 
You'll  depend  on  them  more  and 
more.  They  will  make  you  feel 
better,  look  better — in  fact,  they 
will  make  your 


whole  life  more 
enjoyable. 

It's  FREE 

So   send    for 
your  free  copy 


CLEANLINESS  INSTITUTE 


Established  to  promote  public  icelfare 
by  teaching  the  value    of  cleanliness 


CLEANLINESS  INSTITUTE.  Dept.  N10. 
45  East  17th  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Please  send  me  free  of  all  cost     the  Bonk  About  Baths." 

Name . . 

I 

j     Street 


1     City. 


r  io-3i 


I  12 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


an  Eyelash  Make-up 
that  Actually  Makes 

LASHES 
GROW 


r 


fT'S  TRUE  —  true  and 
proven.  A  mascara 
which  gives  lashes  a  Double  Treatment 
—  that  is  the  new  discovery. 

It's  called  the  new  Liquid  Winx. 
First  you  use  it  as  a  waterproof  mascara. 
It  darkens  lashes,  makes  them  look  soft, 
delicate  and  fascinating.  Eyes  take 
on  new  sparkle,  new  appeal.  Yet  the 
effect  is  natural — in  good  taste. 

And  (while  you  use  Winx  as  a  mas- 
cara) it  actually  promotes  the  health 
and  growth  of  lashes.  Winx  contains 
stimulating  oils  which  turn  skimpy, 
straggly  lashes  into  a  long,  curly,  be- 
witching fringe.  A  week's  use  actually 
shows  definite  improvements! 

You  may  try  the  new  Liquid  Winx — 
simply  by  sending  1 0<k  for  a  Vanity  Size 
— enough  for  a  month's  use. 


ROSS  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-l 

243  West  17th  Street,  New  York 
I  enclose  1  Oi  for  Liquid  Winx,  Vanity  Size. 


Black_ 


_Brovvn 


Name 

Address- 


Why  eyes  linger  on 
her  Blonde  Hair 

SUCH  irresistible  golden  radiance!  No  wonder 
men  look  and  look!  That  always  happens 
when  girls  use  Blondex.  This  special  shampoo 
makes  blonde  hair  sparkle  with  new  beauty, 
new  gleam  and  lustre!  Prevents  darkening — 
safely  brings  back  natural  golden  color  to  dull, 
faded  lighthair.  Notadye.  No  harmful  chemi- 
cals. Fine  for  scalp.  A  Blondex  blonde  is  always 
in  demand.  At  all  drug  and  department  stores. 


Manners — He  Has  Them 


|  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  65 


Probably  you  don't  know,  for  instance,  that 
he  isn't  David  Manners  at  all.  That  he's  really 
Rauff  Acklom,  born  in  Halifax  in  1905.  His 
father  is  the  one  who  traces  his  ancestry  direct 
lo  William  the  Conqueror.  On  his  mother's 
side,  he's  a  Haddon  of  Haddon  Hall.  Lady 
Diana  Manners  is  his  cousin,  but  they  aren't 
speaking — there's  one  of  those  nose-tilting 
English  feuds  on.  The  Duke  of  Rutland  is 
another  relative. 

A  ND  then  there's  the  very  British  uncle  who 
-'^■harangued  Dave  at  length  just  before  he 
left  London  last  time.  Uncle  brought  out  the 
family  tree — Dave  says  it  looked  like  a  whole 
forest.  Uncle,  by  the  way,  is  a  Knight  of  the 
Bath.  .  .  . 

"David,  my  lad,"  he  said,  or  words  to  that 
effect,  "look  at  that."  He  spread  the  family 
chart  before  him,  with  all  the  cryptic  initialings 
that  indicate  so  much  to  students  of  genealogy, 
and  heraldry,  and  the  peerage,  and  all  that. 
"Isn't  that  glorious?" 

Etc.,  etc.,  etc.,  the  uncle  went  on,  winding  up 
to  the  peroration  that  David  now  stands  as  the 
last  man  of  the  line.  With  him,  if  he  leaves  no 
heirs,  will  pass  one  of  the  greater  houses  of  the 
British  Empire. 

Uncle,  having  done,  stood  there  and  waited 
for  David  to  be  properly  impressed.  So  David 
said: 

"And  what  of  it?" 

Uncle  is  still  trying  to  think  of  the  answer  to 
that,  while  Dave  is  enjoying  himself  in 
America. 

It's  not  a  pose,  this  Americanism  of  Dave 
Manners.  It's  real.  Entitled  as  he  is  to  a 
place,  if  he  wants  it,  in  Hollywood's  snooty 
English  colony,  Dave  spurns  it.  An  English 
writer,  having  studied  Hollywood  recently, 
made  this  comment  on  Manners: 

"He  can  switch  from  broad  to  nasal  A's  at 
will.  He  is  very  quiet,  unassuming,  un- 
snobbish.  He  does  not  sit  in  corners  with  other 
Britishers  and  refuse  to  talk  to  anyone  else. 
In  fact,  he  doesn't  even  know  most  of  the 
Englishmen  in  Hollywood!" 

It  was  when  he  first  came  to  America  that 
David  made  his  most  American  gesture  of  all. 
He  tried  to  be  a  cowboy. 

It  all  began  when  the  climate  of  old  London 
got  him  down.  Recurrent  pneumonia  threat- 
ened his  lungs.  "A  warrrf  climate,  my  boy,  or 
it's  all  up  with  you,"  warned  the  doctors. 
Virtually  any  other  Englishman  would  forth- 
with have  toodle-ooed  off  to  India  or  Africa, 
put  on  a  white  sun-helmet  and  a  superior  air, 


and  spent  the  rest  of  his  life  drinking  warm 
whisky-and-soda. 

Not  Dave.  Dave  came  to  America,  and 
learned  that  Arizona  was  warm.  He  hied  to  a 
dude  ranch  and,  after  he  got  the  lay  of  the  land, 
got  himself  a  job  as  a  cowboy  guide !  And  did 
it  well,  too.  Except  for  the  fact  that  now  and 
then,  a  more  discerning  person  came  along, 
listened  a  bit  interestedly  to  David's  richly- 
assumed  cowboy  drawl,  looked  him  over 
quizzically,  and  asked:  "Say,  you're  really  not 
a  cowboy,  are  you?"  And  David  always  ad- 
mitted he  wasn't  a  cowboy,  but  after  all,  not  so 
bad  with  the  bull,  eh? 

Of  course,  David  can  talk  "English"  with 
the  best  of  them.  If  he  wants  to,  he  can  use  an 
Oxford  accent  broader  than  a  censor's  mind  is 
narrow.  He  was  educated  in  that  sort  of 
school.    But  he  doesn't. 

Only  the  other  day,  he  was  returning  from  a 
week-end  visit  to  Agua  Caliente.  Immigration 
officers  stopped  his  car  at  the  border,  as  usual, 
with  the  customary  query: 

"Americans?" 

David  nodded.  He  had  his  first  papers;  be- 
sides, he  was  born  in  North  America. 

But  his  companion  spoke.  "Yahs,  of 
course,"  he  said.  Now  it  so  happened  that  the 
companion  was  a  Texas-born  youth  who  had 
been  educated  at  Harvard.  He  took  his 
Harvard  seriously,  especially  the  accent.  And 
while  David  Manners,  descendant  of  William 
the  Conqueror,  had  not  the  slightest  further 
difficulty,  it  took  his  Texas-born  American 
companion  many  minutes  of  palaver  before  the 
immigration  people  believed  he  wasn't  an 
Englishman  trying  to  break  in  outside  the 
quota. 

A  S  a  person,  David  Manners  is  a  quiet,  un- 
*»assuming  chap.  He  doesn't  go  for  any 
forms  of  Hollywood  whoop-te-do.  He  wants  to 
write,  and  is  now  working  on  a  novel.  He  takes 
his  acting  seriously,  but  not  too  seriously.  He 
is  overjoyed  when  he  gets  fan  letters  from 
movie-goers  who  have  liked  his  work. 

He  is  very  likely  to  answer  personally  a  fan 
letter  if  it  interests  him.  But  there  is  one  he 
got  recently  which  he  has  not  answered  and 
never  will.  It  was  from  a  woman  in  Ohio.  It 
began  with  warm  praise  of  his  work.  Then  it 
switched  into  a  paean  of  praise  of  David  the 
man.    And  it  concluded  with  this: 

".  .  .  and  please  send  me  a  photograph  of 
yourself  in  the  nude." 

Now,  what  would  William  the  Conqueror 
have  done  in  a  case  like  that? 


Watch  For  The  Winners! 


Photoplay's 

$5,000.00  Puzzle 

Contest 

The  names  of  the  lucky 
70  who  captured  the 
prizes  will  appear  in  the 
January,  1932,  issue  of 
Photoplay. 

On  all  neiusstands  about  Dec.  10 


The 

Photoplay  Gold 

Medal 

For  the  best  picture 
produced  in  1930  will  be 
awarded  as  soon  as  the 
thousands  of  ballots  can 
be  counted. 

It's    Filmland's    Nobel    Prize.' 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


ll3 


CONTINUED  FROM  TAGE  67  ] 


Marlene.  Doubly  serious  now  because  she 
returned  to  Hollywood  determined  to  be  happy. 
This  time  she  had  intended  to  enjoy  Holly- 
wood— not  hate  it  as  she  did  during  her  first 
eight  months  of  American  pictures. 

"Why,  the  whole  time  I  was  here  before, 
that  same  tree  stood  outside  my  dressing-room 
door  and  I  never  saw  it.  But  now — I  am  able 
to  see  what  is  around  me;  I  love  it.  1  want  to 
be  happy  here.  And  I  thought  I  could.  / 
liavc  my  baby.''' 

It  is  true — Marlene  was  ready  to  sacrifice 
everything  before  because  her  five-year-old 
(laughter,  Maria,  was  in  Europe.  She  is  so 
devoted  to  the  child  that  I  do  not  think  it  is  a 
stretch  of  imagination  to  say  she  has  a  mother 
complex  which  would  interest  our  most  astute 
psychoanalysts. 

"ipO  prove  it:  She  had  just  secured  a  foothold 
■*■  on  the  German  stage  when  she  discovered 
she  was  to  have  a  baby.  She  retired  for  two 
years.  The  first  year  was  necessary;  the  second 
wasn't.  She  nursed  the  baby  for  an  entire 
year.  The  doctors  warned  her  it  might  spoil 
her  figure. 

"  Let  it.  I  must  nurse  my  baby  as  long  as  I 
can,"  was  her  answer. 

She  wanted  to  stay  home  continuously  to 
care  for  the  baby.  But  some  force  within  her 
pushed  her  relentlessly  on. 

But  she  had  tasted  stage  life  and  she  could 
not — once  the  baby  no  longer  needed  her  for 
actual  sustenance — forget  it. 

It  was  hard  to  get  back.  Marlene  has  had 
remarkably  few  struggles  in  life,  but  this  return 
to  the  footlights  was  not  easy.  Max  Reinhardt 
finally  turned  the  trick  for  her.  Musical 
comedy  in  which  Herr  Josef  saw  her.  Then 
America  without  her  baby. 

Ah,  one  would  have  to  be  a  mother  like 
Marlene  to  comprehend  those  eight  months  of 
torture.  The  two  little  lost  teeth  of  the  child 
were  sent  to  her;  she  slept  on  them.  They 
talked  long  distance,  they  cabled  daily.  And 
still  the  nausea  of  discontent  continued. 

"And  when  you  arrived  home?" 

Marlene's  face  lit  as  though  an  electric  light 
had  been  snapped  on  within  her;  her  eyes 
glowed  with  excitement. 

"When  I  got  home  at  last,  I  found  my  home 
exactly  as  I  had  left  it.  Nothing  was  different. 
That  is  because  I  was  not  different.  Eight 
months  over  here  has  not  changed  Marlene 
Dietrich!" 

And  that  really  is  the  amazing  part  of  this 
woman.  Hollywood  usually  touches  its  new- 
comers with  a  sure  hand.  Sometimes  it  paints 
with  bold  strokes;  sometimes  with  deft  subtle- 
ness. But  it  has  always  left  some  mark  upon 
its  captives. 

"Divorce?"  Her  eyes  widened.  "People 
say  I  will  get  a  divorce?  But  that  is  as  funny 
as  to  say  I  would  leave  my  baby.  My  baby 
and  husband  are  altogether.  They  are  one 
with  the  other. 

"Of  course,  it  is  more  expensive  this  way. 
It  costs  me  much  money.  My  contract  must 
be  for  six  months  in  this  country  and  six 
months  in  Europe.  It  is  natural  they  do  not 
want  to  pay  me.    But  it  is  the  best  we  can  do." 

•"TO  understand  Marlene,  you  would  have  to 
x  know  the  psychology  of  European  women. 
She  is  a  true  daughter  of  German  routine  and 
German  traditions.  While  she  was  home  she 
lost  twelve  pounds. 

"When  I  am  happy  I  always  lose  weight.  I 
go  so  much.  I  dance  every  night;  I  see  all  the 
excitement.  Here  I  live  in  a  house  very 
quietly — I  already  start  to  gain.  It  is  strange," 
the  lights  in  her  eyes  change  to  shadows,  "but 
when  I  become  just  a  little  unhappy  I  gain 
weight." 

Josef  Von  Sternberg  is  amazingy  frank  in 


ON  THE  AIR  Every  Sunday  Afternoon 
from  2:30  to  3:00  P.  M.,  Eastern  Doy- 
light  Saving  Time,  the  melodious 
"Yeast  Foamers"  over  NBC  -WJ2 
Blue  Network  Stations  and  all  supple- 
mentary stations  from  coast  to  coast. 


You'll  like  this  modern 

form  of  easy-to-eat  pure 

pasteurized  yeast  — 

and  due  to  its  purity  and  vitamin  potency 
you'll  find  its  health  benefits  truly  amazing 

No  wonder  thousands  of  men  and  women  are  turning,  day 
by  day,  to  Yeast  Foam  Tablets — the  modern,  easy-to-eat, 
concentrated  form  of  health  yeast.  For  this  yeast,  being 
all  yeast,  with  no  diluting  ingredients  such  as  starch,  water 
or  drugs,  is  of  the  highest  vitamin  value.  And,  of  course,  it 
is  the  presence  of  the  vitamins  (B  and  G)  which  makes 
yeast  such  an  important  health  food. 

Yeast  Foam  Tablets  are  pure.  They  are  pleasant  in  taste. 
Their  vitamin  content  is  high  and  uniform.  They  are  pas- 
teurized, hence  they  cannot  cause  gas  or  fermentation  and, 
consequently,  are  safe  for  all  ages— from  the  elderly  down 
to  tiny  infants. 

As  final  and  conclusive  evidence  of  the  high  quality  of 
Yeast  Foam  Tablets,  remember  that  this  yeast  is  used  as 
the  standard  for  vitamin  studies  as  conducted  by  the  U.  S. 
Government  and  leading  American  universities. 

Eat  Yeast  Foam  Tablets  for  skin  and  complexion  dis- 
orders, digestive  or  intestinal  disturbances,  underweight, 
nervous  and  rundown  conditions.  Eat  them  regularly  and 
over  a  sufficient  period  of  time,  bearing  in  mind  that  yeast 
is  a  corrective  food  and  confers  its  benefits  gradually. 

From  your  druggist  today  get  Yeast  Foam  Tablets,  the 
pure,  modern  type  of  yeast  that  is  so  easy  to  eat  and  so 
beneficial  to  the  system.  The  10-day  bottle  costs  but  50 
cents.  Made  and  guaranteed  by  the  World's  Largest 
Makers  of  Dry  Yeast 

YEAST     FOAM     TABLETS 

The  Yeast  Suitable  for  All  Ages 

SEND       FOR       FREE       SAMPLE 

Northwestern  Yeast  Co.,  1750  N.  Ashland  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 
Please  send  me  free  sample  and  descriptive  circular.  P.  P. 

Name , 


Address^ 
City 


.State- 


ii4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


Grow 

Yes,  Grow  Eyelashes  and  Eye- 
brows like  this  in  30  Days 

Marvelous  new  discovery! — makes  eyelashes  and  eye- 
brows actually  grow!  Now  as  never  before  you  can 
positively  have  long,  curling,  silken  lashes  and  beauti- 
ful, wonderful  eyebrows. 

I  say  to  you  in  plain  English  that  no  matter  how  scant 
your  eyelashes  and  brows,  I  will  increase  their  length 
and  thickness  in  30  days — or  not  accept  one  penny. 
No  "ifs,"  "ands,"  or  "maybes" — you  actually  see 
etartling  results — or  no  pay!   You  be  the  judge. 

Over  10,000  Women  Prove  It 
— prove  beyond  a  doubt  that  this  astounding  new 
discovery  fringes  the  eyes  with  long,  curling  natural 
lashes — makes  eyebrows  lovely,  silken  lines.  Read 
what  they  say — sworn  to  under  oath  before  a  notary 
public.  From  Mile.  Hefnefinger,  240  W.  "B"  St., 
Carlisle,  Pa. :  "I  certainly  am  delighted  . .  .people  now 
remark  how  long  and  silky  my  eyelashes  appear." 
Frances  Raviart  of  Jeanette,  Pa.,  says:  "Your  Eyelash 
and  Eyebrow  Beautifier  is  simply  marvelous."  Flora 
J.  Corriveau,  Biddeford,  Me.,  says:  "With  your 
Method  my  eyelashes  are  growinglong  and  luxurious." 

Results  Evident  in  One  Week 
In  one  week — often  in  a  day  or  so — you  see  the  lashes 
become  more  beautiful,  like  silken  fringe!  The  darling 
little  upward  curl  shows  itself  and  eyebrows  become 
sleek.  It's  the  thrill  of  a  lifetime — when  you  have 
lashes  and  brows  as  beautiful  as  any  ever  seen. 
Remember — I  guarantee  you  satisfactory  results  in 
30  days — or  your  money  refunded  in  full.  I  mean  just 
that — no  quibble,  no  strings. 
Bend  today.  Special  Intro- 
ductory Price  only  $1.95 
NOW!  Later  S5.00.  Order 
NOW  at  low  price. 

Sent  C.  O.  D.^—Or  if  money  accom- 
panies order  postage  will  be  prepaid. 

••■■■■■■■■IIIIIIIIIIIIMMIIMIIIIMIIIIIIIIMMMIII 

'  Lucille  Young,  656-A  Lucille  Young  BIdg.,  Chicago , 
Ssend  me  your  new  discovery  for  growing  eyelashes 
Sand  eyebrows.  II  not  entirely  satisfied,  I'll  return 
■in  30  days  and  you  refund  my  money. 

Price  C.  O.  D.  is  $1.95  plus  few  cents  postage 
S  If  $1.95  sent  with  order  postage  will  be  paid. 
;         Check  if  money  enclosed  Q  or  C.  O.  D.  Q 

UName 

»  St.  Address 

;Clty State 

?■■■•■■ ■■■■■■■■■■■laiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 

■BHBH1 


The  GIFT 

that  makes 

BABY 

Healthier   and 
Mother  Happier 

BN  CRIB,  carriage  or  car  one 
zip  of  the  full  length  Talon 
fastener— and  baby'scomplete- 
ly  protected  by  the  soft,  warm 
Snuggle  Rug.  Kenwood  pure 
wool  fabric  and  other  quality 
materials.  Trimmed  in  match- 
ing satin  ribbon.  Insist  on  the 
genuine — labeled  by  name  and 
guaranteed.  Priced  as  low  as 
$3.00.  See  them  at  your  leading 
department  and  infant's  wear 
stores.  Write  for  interesting 
folder  on  Snuggle  Rugs  and  the 
new  "Snuggle  Bunny" — which 
keeps  babies  and  children  all 
covered  all  night. 

Snuggle  Rug  Co.*  1033N.  Seventh  St.,  Goshen,  tnd* 


SNUGGLE  RUG 

FOR  BABY  — AND  ONE  FOR  DOLLY  TOO! 


Ask  yoor  dealer  or 
write  immediately 
for  details  of  the 
Snaggle    Rug    Babj 


ag    Baby 
65     cash 


napshot 
of  yoor  baby  may 
win  $300.00. 


his  interest.  <:I  think  I  will  get  sick  on  this 
next  picture  (which  will  probably  be  a  German 
one  made  from  a  story  Marlene  brought  back 
from  the  homeland)  and  stay  away  two  weeks 
and  let  her  direct  it,"  he  says.  "She  almost 
directed  'Morocco'  and  'Dishonored.'  No,  I 
mean  it. 

''The  entire  stage  scene  in  'Morocco'  was 
her  idea.  The  songs  were  hers  and  it  was  the 
best  scene  in  the  picture. 

"A   PARROT!"    He  laughed.    "I  am  going 

■»  *■  to  make  very  few  more  pictures.  I  am 
going  to  retire.  Yes,  you  can  print  it.  I  have 
few  more  stories  left  in  me  and  I  am  ready  to 
take  a  long  rest.  I  shall  recommend  that 
Marlene  direct,  then. 

''She  spent  hours  every  day  in  Europe  hunt- 
ing for  stories,  not  only  for  herself  but  for  Para- 
mount to  produce  with  other  players.  The 
only  thing  I  put  in  her  mouth  is  good  English." 

And  Marlene  is  so  afraid  of  Von  Sternberg's 
harsh  criticism  on  her  pronunciation  of  English 
that  she  tries  to  get  away  with  firing  German  at 
him. 

For  no  matter  how  she  improves  in  English 
pronunciation,  he  is  never  satisfied. 

He  criticises  her  in  loud  tones — until  she 
shivers,  but  doubles  her  efforts  at  perfection. 
The  result: 

You  would  scarcely  know  today  that  she  is 
foreign — except  from  her  psychology;  most  cer- 
tainly not  from  her  diction. 


A  Nervous  Wreck! 


SUBSCRIBE  FOR  PHOTOPLAY 

See  Opposite  Page  for  Subscription  Rates 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  66  ] 

blonde,  who  convulsed  Hollywood  by  referring 
to  "rocketeers." 

Mentioning  blondes  reminds  one  that  Leslie 
Howard  himself  is  fair.  He's  blue-eyed,  too. 
And  as  long  as  we're  at  that  sort  of  thing,  he's 
five  feet,  ten  and  a  half  inches  tall;  weighs  145 
pounds,  and  is  thirty-eight  years  old.  Born  in 
London. 

If  it  hadn't  been  for  the  war,  you'd  probably 
never  have  heard  of  Leslie  Howard,  much  less 
seen  him  at  your  favorite  theater.  For,  after 
finishing  private  education,  he  went  into  the 
commercial  world  with  no  more  idea  of  the 
stage  than  any  other  bank  clerk,  which  was 
what  he  was  when  the  war  broke  out. 

Of  course,  he  enlisted.  Four  years  of  it,  and 
then  he  found  himself  contending  with  a  few 
million  other  men  for  jobs.  Business,  after 
war,  was  too  prosaic.  He  decided,  for  no 
reason  at  all  except  that  he'd  done  a  few  bits 
in  school  theatricals,  to  be  an  actor.  So  he 
bothered  agents  until  one  of  them  got  so  an- 
noyed that  he  hired  Howard  out  to  an  English 
road  show  for  about  twenty  dollars  a  week,  in 
our  money. 

After  playing  in  towns  so  small  they  didn't 
bother  to  put  a  dot  on  a  map  for  them, 
Howard  decided  he'd  rather  be  a  metropolitan 
star,  so  he  went  back  to  London  and  bothered 
agents  again  until  he  got  a  small  part  in  a 
London  production. 

AFTER  that,  his  personality  and  natural 
ability  lifted  him  out  of  the  ruck  and  made 
him,  today,  one  of  the  most  sought-after  lead- 
ing men  on  both  the  stage  and  screen. 

Ask  him  his  recipe  for  success,  ask  him  why 
he  is  where  he  is  professionally,  and  he'll  tell 
you  very  honestly  that  he'll  be  damned  if  he 
knows. 

He  doesn't  profess  to  understand  it,  but  is 
content  that  it  is. 

He  talks  a  lot,  but  quietly,  and  with  a  droll, 
dry  humor  that  is  frequently  Rabelaisian  but 
never  goes  over  that  faint  border-line  between 
what's  funny  and  what  isn't. 

He  hates  to  eat  in  restaurants,  always  shaves 
himself,  and  laments  the  fact  that  he's  got  a 
reputation  for  being  a  bit  high-hat  and  up- 
stage. 

He  insists  he's  merely  timid. 


Enjoy  Thrilling  Satisfaction 


Woman  Loses  43  pounds 
in  3  months 

Thank  Modern  Science  for  this  safe, 
pleasant,  easy  way  to  lose  ugly  fat — 
simply  take  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
Kruschen  Salts  in  a  glass  of  hot  water 
every  morning  before  breakfast.  Many 
women  hasten  results  by  going  a  little 
lighter  on  potatoes,  fatty  meats  and 
pastries. 

Unlike  other  salts,  Kruschen  doesn't 
reduce  by  rushing  food  thru  the 
system — rather  it's  an  ideal  combina- 
tion of  6  separate  minerals  which  help 
every  gland,  nerve  and  body  organ  to 
function  properly — an  unexcelled  home 
reducing  treatment  which  constitutes 
the  same  principles  as  the  world  famous 
European  Spas. 

Mrs.  Jerry  Gipe  of  Willow  Hill,  Pa.  writes: 
"Since  taking  Kruschen  Salts  3  months  ago,  I 
have  lost  43  lbs.  I  feel  so  much  better  and 
look  so  much  better,  too." 

An  85c  bottle  of  Kruschen  (lasts  4 
weeks)  is  sold  by  leading  druggists 
thruout  the  whole  wide  world. 

KRUSCHEN  SALTS 

"Ifs  the  Little  Daily  Dose  That  Does  It" 


How  Tf°"ain  A  Better  Looking  Nose 


Improve  Your  Personal  Appearance 

My  free  bcok  tells  you  how  I  guarantee 
to  improve  the  shape  of  your  nose  by 
remolding  the  cartilage  and  fleshy  parts 
quickly,  safely,  and  painlessly,  or  refund 
your  money.  The  very  hne.  precire  ad- 
justments wh  ch  only  my  new  patented 
Model  25  Nose  Shaper  possesses,  make 
results  satisfactory  and  lasting.  Worn 
night  or  day.  Over  100,000  users.  Send 
for  free  book  to 

M.  TRILETY,  Pioneer  Noseshaping  Specialist 
Depl.  281, Binrhamlon.N.Y. 


FOR  HAIR  AND  SCALP 

A  single  bottle  corrects  scalp  irrita- 
tions; a  Proven  Germicide,  deli- 
l>>rfb  cately  perfumed;  safe  for  adults 

K^wlflfiR  and  children.  World's  largest  seller  at 
Druggists.  Barbers  Beauty  Parlors. 


MIMJVbH^ 


"Shame  on  you!'*   Are  you  nervous,  embarrassed  in  com- 
pany of  the  othersex?  Stop  being  shy  of  strangers.  Conquer 
the  terrible /ear  of  your  superiors.    Be  cheerful  and  con- 
fident of  your  future!    Your  faults   easily  < 
■an   enjoy   life   to   the"  fullest.    Send   25c  for  this   amazing   book. 
RICHARD     BLACKSTONE,    B-2210    FLATIRON    BLOC, 


NEW    YORK 


>IN.  SILVER  PLATE   35c  EA.   S3  50  DOZ.     STEP- 
»  OR  GOLD   PLATE   50c   EA  .  S3  CO  0O2.     I  OR  2 
AMEL.  ANY  3  OR   4   LETTERS, 
r8ASTlAN  BROS.  CO,     37    BASTIAN  BLDG-  ROCHESTER   NY 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


"5 


!     He  Is  Her  Man! 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  55  ] 

lugubrious  way  in  a  month  of  comic-strips. 

And  it's  that  love  which  would  make  Bar- 
bara Stanwyck  leave  us — her  millions  of  recent 
admirers — without  batting  an  eyelash,  and 
would  send  her  off  hand  in  hand  with  her 
Frankie,  even  if  he  were  going  to  tend  a  gas 
station  in  the  Gobi  Desert! 

Small  wonder  that  some  love  is  to  be  feared 
with  a  deadly  fear! 

At  any  rate,  when  Broadway  struck  gold  in 
talkilied  Hollywood  in  '29,  Fay  shouldered  his 
pickaxe,  kissed  Broadway  a  long  goodbye,  and 
headed  Westward  toward  the  big  money.  And 
Barbara  held  him  trustingly  by  the  hand. 

The  red-hot  drama  began. 

FAY  went  to  Warners.  A  Broadway  laddie- 
buck  who  hadn't  seen  a  horse  in  twenty 
years,  Frank  was  hoisted  aboard  one  and  put 
through  "  Under  a  Texas  Moon."  It  was  no  go. 

His  company  fairly  lathered  itself  digging  up 
stories  for  him,  surrounding  him  with  snappy 
casts  and  beautiful  girls,  pushing  him  toward 
some  sort  of  hit.  Every  attempt  to  cash  in  on 
his  undoubted  talent  for  droll,  flip  wise-crack- 
ing fell  with  a  faint  plop  into  the  limitless  sea  of 
public  apathy. 

The  feeling  grew  that  Fay,  as  far  as  talkies 
were  concerned,  was  a  prime  and  pithy  floppo 
— a  dismal  dud  of  the  saddest  sort. 

Nothing,  it  appeared,  could  be  done. 

The  head  men  began  to  look  down  their  sun- 
tanned noses  at  the  Broadway  boy. 

And  our  beauty?  Stanwyck  broke  upon  us 
like  a  flash  of  red  fire.  We  chronic  cheer- 
leaders for  the  new  beauties  and  talents  turned 
handsprings  and  cheers  over  her  discovery  in 
"Ladies  of  Leisure."  I  myself  hurled  into 
Broadway  beating  a  tom-tom  and  screaming 
hallelujah,  and  was  promptly  clapped  into  the 
calaboose. 

Contracted  to  Columbia,  a  dicker  was  made 
with  Warners  whereby  she  was  to  alternate 
between  the  two  lots.  Producers  demanded 
her. 

And  Fay's  ticket  at  Warners  wore  out. 
Word  went  over  the  grapevine  telegraph  that 
Barbara  had  stepped  to  the  bat  and  announced 
that  unless  Frankie  was  re-signed,  she  would 
take  her  dollies  and  roller-skates  into  another 
yard  to  play. 

Fay  got  a  new  contract. 

And  suddenly  Broadway's  favorite  son  was 
no  longer  the  big  shot  of  the  family.  Barbara's 
name  passed  from  lip  to  lip — Fay's  to  appear 
written  in  red  ink,  and  not  gold. 

Did  this  make  any  difference  to  Stanwyck? 
None — except  that  she  seemed  more  devoted 
to  her  red-haired  spouse  than  ever. 

No  Frankie,  no  fame — she  announced  it 
proudly,  while  Hollywood  wondered  and 
sighed. 

Suddenly,  Fay  was  really  through  on  the 
Warner  pasture.  And  Barbara  announced  her 
declaration  of  independence  from  Hollywood 
and  all  its  weird  works  and  ways.  Due  to  start 
work  on  a  picture  at  Columbia,  she  simply 
failed  to  show  up  at  camera-time. 

COME  people  may  say  it's  money-trouble. 
'-'But  the  knowing  ones  will  tell  you,  in  all 
honesty,  that  the  heart  is  talking  and  not  the 
check  book. 

Barbara  Stanwyck  will  have  no  part  of  a 
world  where  Frank  Fay  isn't  chairman  of  the 
board  of  directors. 

And  that's  that. 

His  eyes  turn  toward  Broadway — Broadway 
with  its  familiar  lights,  its  cheers  for  a  pet 
wise-cracker,  its  well-known  alleys,  shops, 
beaneries  and  pals. 

Fay  evidently  can't  do  without  Broadway. 
Can  Broadway  do  without  him? 

And  here's  where  the  sour  note  is  struck — 
the  sad  thought  smites  the  brain.     For  Fay 


How  To  Really 

Get  Rid  Of 

Arm  And  Leg  Hair 

Utterly  Without  the  Problem  of  Coarsened  Re-growth 


By  a  total  lack  of  stubble  you  can  feel  the  dif- 
ference between  this  and  old  ways. 


A  Discovery  That  is  Proving  to  the 
Wonder  of  the  Cosmetic  World  That 
Hair  Can  Not  Only  Be  Removed  In- 
stantly, But  Its  Reappearance  Delayed 
Amazingly. 

A  way  of  removing  arm  and  leg  hair  has 
been  found  that  not  only  removes  every 
vestige  of  hair  instantly,  but  that  banishes 
the  stimulated  hair  growth  thousands  of 
women  are  charging  to  the  razor  and  less 
modern  ways.  A  way  that  not  only  removes 
hair,  but  delays  its  reappearance  remarkably. 

It  is  changing  previous  conceptions  of  cos- 
meticians about  hair  removing.  Women  are 
flocking  to  its  use.  The  creation  of  a  noted 
laboratory,  it  is  different  from  any  other 
hair  remover  known. 

What  It  Is 

It  is  an  exquisite  toilet  creme  resembling  a 
superior  beauty  clay  in  texture.  You  simply 


Not  only  is  slightest  fear  of  coarsened  re-growth 

banished  but  actual  reappearance  of  hair  is 

slowed  amazingly. 


spread  it  on  where  hair  is  to  be  removed. 
Then  rinse  off  with  water. 
That  is  all.  Every  vestige  of  hair  is  gone; 
so  completely  that  even  by  running  your 
hand  across  the  skin  not  the  slightest  trace 
of  stubble  can  be  felt.  And— the  reappear- 
ance of  that  hair  is  delayed  surprisingly! 

When  re-growth  finally  does  come,  it  is  ut- 
terly unlike  the  re-growth  following  the 
razor  and  old  ways.  You  can  feel  the  differ- 
ence. No  sharpstubble.  No  coarsened  growth. 

The  skin,  too,  is  left  soft  as  a  child's.  No 
skin  roughness,  no  enlarged  pores.  You  feel 
freer  than  probably  ever  before  in  your  life 
of  annoying  hair  growth. 

Where  To  Obtain 

It  is  called  Neet— and  is  on  sale  at  all  drug 
and  department  stores  and  beauty  parlors. 
Costs  only  a  few  cents.  z?6A 

Nppj-      Cream 
L  v   L      Hair    Remover 


Earn   money  taking   orders 

among  your  friends  and  others 

for  our  beautiful  line  of  Playing 

Cards,  including  the 

new    Initial   Card  — 

unique, distinctive, 

popular  low  price ! 

Earning  Now: 

experience  needed.  You  can 
start  at  once,  and  your  spare 
time  will  pay  you  handsomely. 
FHFF  5 "IP.,  Send  to  manufacturer  for  free 
■  ■%■»■■  UUTTK  tamplts  of  Initial  and  other  high 
quality,  most  attractive  playing  cards.  Find  out  how  you, 
too,  can  earn  extra  money  this  easy  way.  No  obligation. 
General  Card  Co.  1201  W.Jackson  Blvd.  Dept.247   Chicago.  Ill 


Ask  Your   Druggist 

What  he  thinks  of  Lablache 
Face  Powder.  Then  try  a  box 
of  your  favorite  shade.  You 
will  love  its  delicacy;  its 
clinging-ness;  its  perfume. 

Send  for  sample  to 
Ben   Levy   Co.,    125    Kingston   St..    Boston.    Mas*. 


SUBSCRIBE     FOR     PHOTOPLAY 

Yearly  Subscription:  S2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies,  Mexico  and  Cuba; 
S3. 50  Canada;  $3.50  to  foreign  countries.  Remittance  should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal 
or  express'money  order. 

PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO,  ILL. 


u6 


N 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


o  guesswork 
here  / 

tidtan  offers 


TABLEAU  by  Johnston  is  a  totally  new 
idea  in  candy  packaging!  Wherever 
you  live,  you  now  can  buy  candy  from  a 
famous  maker-and  be  sure  of  perfect, 
glowing  freshness  every  time! 

The  package  is  smart,  sparkling,  modern. 
A  package  you  can  give  with  pride  .  . . 
but  amazingly  uncostly.  And  there's  an 
assortment  for  every  taste  and  purse! 

For  gifts,  for  personal  enjoyment,  why 
risk  inferior  candies  ever?  .  .  .  now  that 
Johnston  offers  freshness  you  can  see. 


My  3  Nicest  Parties"  ii 
a  fascinating  booklet  com 
piled  by  the  Johnston  Party 
Bureau,  for  women  who  like 
to  entertain  charmingly.  The 
booklet  is  free —  write  for  it, 


5 


ROBERT  A.  JOHNSTON  CO.  15-10 

Milwaukee.  Wisconsin. 

Please  send  me  free  booklet  "My  3  Nicest  Parties." 
Name 


Address.. 
City 


.State.. 


came  back  to  Broadway  not  long  ago — back  to 
the  Strand  Theater,  across  the  way  from  the 
Palace,  scene  of  his  greatest  triumphs. 

He  was  to  play  a  week  of  personal  appear- 
ances with  his  own  picture,  "God's  Gift  to 
Women." 

Imagine  his  anticipation  of  a  great  triumph 
on  the  lighted  highway  that's  his  happiest 
home! 

AND  he  died — he  and  the  picture  both! 
-**-Died  on  Broadway!  I'll  bet  he  can't  be- 
lieve it  yet. 

Audiences  were  sparse — his  husky,  rambling 
humors  failed  to  carry  across  the  orchestra  pit, 
and  they  curled  up  and  swooned  in  the  foot- 
light  trough. 

It  was  too  terrible.    As  a  survivor,  I  know. 

It  seemed  that  two  years  in  Hollywood, 
away  from  his  "  wise  crowd,"  had  cooked  Fay's 
goose  to  a  turn. 

And  it  is  this  to  which  Frank  Fay,  through 
in  pictures,  looks  with  longing! 

Even  if  he  leaves  Hollywood,  will  Broad- 
way take  him  back  to  its  phony,  forgetful 
heart? 

So  much  for  Fay's  problem. 

It's  beautiful  Barbara  on  whom  our  eyes 
are  riveted. 

Will  she  act  the  Old  Testament  story  of  Ruth 
all  over  again?  Will  she  be  the  greatest  female 
Don  Quixote  of  the  decade — giving  in  to  love, 
and  giving  up  her  own  life  in  the  sunshine  be- 
cause a  red-headed  man  pines  for  a  roaring 
street  3,000  miles  away? 

I'll  not  baste  another  hem  in  peace  until 
that's  answered — nor  will  my  thousands  of 
fellow-members  of  The  Stanwyck  Cheering  and 
Adoring  Club,  Unlimited! 

Oh,  I  suppose  giving  up  fame  and  fortune  is 
her  business! 

But  losing  one  of  the  screen's  most  luscious 
and  promising  stars  is  another  horse.  That  is 
strictly  our  business!  Please  don't  leave  us, 
Barbara! 

"\/"ET  a  small,  gnawing  feeling  tells  me  that  if 
■*■  Fay  so  much  as  waggles  a  forefinger,  she 
will! 

And  some  day,  in  a  theater  lobby  or  restau- 
rant, we  may  see  a  beautiful  girl  looking  up  at 
a  shock-headed  fellow  at  her  side.  And  our 
hearts  will  drop  a  stitch,  and  we'll  say,  "Look! 
There's  Barbara  Stanwyck! 

"Haven't  seen  her  for  ages!  Gosh — how 
beautiful ! 

"Do  you  remember?" 


Three  pictures  in  her  three  months 
in  Hollywood.  That's  the  record  of 
this  pretty  five-year-old,  Marilyn 
Knowlden.  At  present  she  is  lending 
her  curls  and  big  blue  eyes  to  "The 
Cisco  Kid"  at  Fox 


Need 

Extra 

Money? 

PHOTOPLAY  now 
offers  its  readers  the 
opportunity  to  convert 
their  spare  time  into 
real  money  by  becoming 
its  subscription  repre- 
sentatives in  the  town  or 
community  in  which 
they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of 
Photoplay,  will  be 
quick  to  realize  the 
money-making  possibil- 
ities this  offer  affords 
you. 

Your  friends  —  your 
neighbors  —  in  fact,  all 
the  homes  in  your  com- 
munity— are  prospective 
subscribers  for  PHOTO- 
PLAY. Who,  today,  is 
not  interested  in  moving 
pictures — the  chief  rec- 
reation of  the  American 
public? 

Be  the  first  in  your 
community  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  this  offer,  and 
get  started  at  once.  A 
post  card  will  bring  fur- 
ther details. 

Photoplay  Magazine 

Dept.  RE-10-31 
919  N.  Michigan  Avenue,  Chicago,  III. 


Wales 

How  to  banUh   them 

A  simple,  safe  home  treat- 
ment— 16  yeara'  success  in  my 
practice.  Moles  (also  Big 
Growths)  dry  up  and  drop 
off.  Write  for  free  Booklet. 
WM.  DAVIS.  M.  D.,  124-D  Grove  Ave,  Woodbridge,  N.  J. 


AGENTS!  BIG  PROFITS! 


SELL  THE  NEW  BOOK  EVERY  WOMAN  WANTS 

"How  to  8o  a  Successful  Hostess- What  Every  Woman 
Should    Know   About    Entertaining    and    Etiquette." 

Send  Us  SI  per  Copy.  ReUlli  for  S2.  Your  Profit  SI. 
225  Pages.  Tells  you  how  to  be  correct  and  popular  and 
how  to  entertain.  Should  be  in  every  home.-  Excellent 
Christmas  gift  to  relatives  and  friends.  We  also  want 
agents  to  sell  our  beautiful  Christmas  Cards.  Send  50c  for 
a  boxed  assortment  which  retails  at  $1.00. 


GAINSBOROUGH  CO. 


127    WASHINGTON    STREET, 

OEPT.  P.    BUFFALO,  N.  Y. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


117 


The   Audience   Speaks    Its    Mind 


Recently,  I  saw  "A  Free  Soul."     What  a 
picture  and  what  a  cast!    Xorma,  although  her 
role  was  not  outstanding,  gave  the  same  fine, 
sincere  performance  that  she  gave  in  "Strangers 
May  Kiss."    She  never  lets  you  down. 
Her  giggle?  is  certainly  unique.    I  adore  it. 
N  vora  Holtz, 
Ellwood  City,  Penna. 

A  New  Lad 

At  last  they  have  given  us  a  newcomer  who 
is  young,  attractive,  and  has  acting  ability! 
Kent  Douglass'  splendid  work  in  both  "Paid" 
and  "Five  and  Ten"  could  not  have  been 
bettered. 

Eleanor  Keenax, 

Atlanta,  Ga. 

Thrills  or  Sweet  Romance? 

There  is  not  the  slightest  doubt  that  the 
smart,  sophisticated  phonoplays  and  gruesome 
gangster  stories  give  us  a  thrill.  But  they  lack 
roalism  due  to  the  fact  that  few  of  us  are 
gangsters  and  most  of  us,  at  the  present  time  at 
least,  are  too  busy  earning  an  insufficient 
salary  to  be  smart  sophisticates. 

Give  us  the  charm,  the  simplicity  and  de- 
lightful love  interest  which  characterize  such 
pictures  as  "  Daddy  Long  Legs." 

Carl  E.  Pope, 
Calgary,  Alta.,  Canada 

Help!  Can't  we  have  something  besides 
these  gangster  pictures?    If  we  must  have  guns 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  14  j 

and  shooting,  let's  go  to  the  good  old  Western 
pictures  for  our  thrills. 

Dorothea  Boone, 
Omaha,  Neb. 

Why  all  the  howling  about  gangster  pictures? 
Those  who  do  not  care  for  pictures  of  that  type 
can  purchase  a  ticket  to  a  milder  film.  For  my 
part,  I  prefer  the  picture  depicting  the  life  of 
the  gangster.  It  takes  me  out  of  a  monotonous, 
humdrum  existence,  into  the  center  of  a  life  of 
thrills  and  excitement. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Slemmons, 
San  Diego,  Calif. 

Misleading  Titles 

Why  are  there  so  many  lurid  titles  used  for 
motion  pictures?  ("The  Devil's  Holiday," 
"Sin  Takes  a  Holiday,"  "Up  Pops  the  Devil," 
"The  Doorway  to  Hell,"  etc.)  And  then  the 
pictures  generally  have  little  or  no  relation  to 
the  title. 

Often  I  stay  away  from  what  I  learn  later 
was  a  worth-while  picture  on  account  of  its  un- 
attractive title. 

Mrs.  M.  O.  Weiby, 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 


Sey 


in  our 


I  went  to  see  "This  Modern  Age"  and  there 
was  lovely  Joan  Crawford  in  a  stunning  frock — ■ 
one  that  I  wanted  for  my  vacation.  But  with 
only  a  fleeting  glimpse  of  it  I  couldn't  remem- 
ber all  the  details. 


So  fancy  how  delighted  I  was  when  I  got  my 
PHOTOPLA1  and  discovered  a  photograph  of  the 
dress,  described  by  that  clever  stylist,  Seymour. 
And  he  even  told  me  the  correct  accessories  to 
wear  with  it! 

My  dressmaker  copied  the  outfit  in  time  for 
my  vacation  and  I  got  many  compliments  on  it. 

EVELYNE    Swil'J  E, 

Knoxville,  Tenn. 

Sidney — Holmes 

In  my  opinion  Sylvia  Sidney  and  Phillips 
Holmes  make  a  more  interesting  team  than 
Gaynor  and  Farrell. 

Irvinc.  C.  Bakek, 
Springfield,  Ohio 

After  seeing  "Confessions  of  a  Co-Ed "  I  am 
raving  about  Sylvia  Sidney.  She  is  different 
from  any  other  girl  on  the  screen. 

What    a   partner    Phillips    Holmes    makes. 
Here's  hoping  we  see  a  lot  of  this  grand  pair. 
Mildred  Sabin, 
Rutland,  Ver. 

Revive  Old  Ones 

Why  don't  managers  give  us  more  revivals  of 
the  fine  films  of  the  past?  A  new  generation 
hears  much  of  such  masterpieces  as  "The 
Covered  Wagon,"  "The  Four  Horsemen." 
"The  Cabinet  of  Dr.  Caligari,"  and  the  Sarah 
Bernhardt  films.  They  want  to  see  them,  yet 
have  little  opportunity  to  do  so. 

S.  E.  Ehrenbero, 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 


Beech-Nut  Gum 


"he  best  pro1 
between  smokes.. 


You'll  enjoy  chewing  Beech-Nut  Gum 
between  smokes.  Its  clear,  cool  flavor 
refreshes  your  taste  sense — makes  every 
smoke  taste  better — as  good  as  the  first 
smoke  of  the  day.  Motorists  find  that  chew- 
ing gum  relieves  the  tension  of  driving. 
Remember  always,  there  is  no  gum  so 
flavorful  as  Beech-Nut. 

Made  by  the  Beech-Nut  Packing  Co.  Also 
makers  of  Beech-Nut  Fruit  Drops  and  Mints. 


Peppermint. 
Wintergreen  and 
Spearmint  Flavors 


MAKES    THE    NEXT    SMOKE    TASTE    BETTER 


n8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


ARTIiTi  EARN 
MORE 


^AyHY  not  train  your  ability 
m<W  along  art  lints  if  you  like  to 
▼  draw?  Art  is  a  vital  part  of 
I  today's  business.  Advertisers 
and  publishers  are  paying 
large  sums  of  money  annu- 
ally to  those  who  are  trained 
in  Modern  Art.  Successful  magazine 
and  newspaper  artists  are  making 
fine  incomes  today.  A  great  many  suc- 
cessful students  of  the  Federal  School 
of  Illustrating  now  earn  from  $2500  to 
$6000  a  year — some  even  more. 

Drawing  is  a  fascinating  study  as 
taught  through  the  Federal  Home 
Study  Course  in  Illustrating.  You  can 
learn  while  you  earn  if  you  wish. 
More  than  fifty  famous  artists  have 
contributed  exclusive  lessons  and 
drawings  to  the  Federal  Course. 

Their  experience  helps  you  to  be- 
come a  professional.  In  your  spare 
time  at  home  you  may  receive 
thorough  instruction  in  all  branches 
of  Illustrating,  Cartooning,  Lettering, 
Poster  Designing,  and  Window  Card 
Illustrating. 

Why  not  train  your  talent  for  draw- 
ing? If  you  like  to  draw,  it  may  be  your 
opportunity  for  success  in  life. 

TEST  YOUR  TALENT— FREE 
Clip  and  sign  the  coupon  below  and 
get  Free  Vocational  Art  Test  and  the 
book  "A  Road  to  Bigger  Things" 
without  charge.  Our  instructors  will 
go  over  this  art  test  and  give  you  their 
frank  opinions  as  to  your  ability. 
With  art  training  you  may  become  a 
nationally  known  artist  with  a  large 
income  later  on.  Make  your  start  to- 
day by  sending  the  coupon  at  once. 


EEDEEAL    SCHCCL 
CE    ILLUSTRATING 

10101  Federal  Schools  Building 
Minneapolis,  Minnesota 


i  ■_■  ■_■-  ■  ■  u 


■  U  ■  ■ jrg 


Federal  School  of  Illustrating 
10101  Federal  Schools  BIdg., 
Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 

Please  send  me  free  book 
"A  Road  To  Bigger  Things" 
and  Standard  Art  Test. 


JVome_ 


Age 

Addressa  . 


jOccupation_ 


The  Unknown  Hollywood  I  Know 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  37  ] 


body  knew  where — for  a  half  hour,  an  hour, 
perhaps  two  or  three.  He  always  returned 
with  "Well,  where  were  we?"  Everybody 
jumped  and  we  continued.  He  never  carried 
cigarettes  although  he  was  a  constant  smoker. 
Instead  he'd  call  out,  "  Give  us  a  cigarette," 
and  every  man  in  the  room  would  bound  to  him 
with  a  package  in  hand.  Griffith  would  look 
over  the  assortment  and  pick  a  brand  he 
wanted.  Then  there  was  another  flurry  with 
matches.  It  was  a  great  honor  to  have  Griffith 
choose  your  cigarette. 

His  actors  worshipped  him  as  if  he  had  been 
a  god.  The  men  called  him  "  Boss"  and  once  I 
do  believe  that  I  heard  Eugenie  Besserer 
murmur  "Master."  Sometimes — he  was  a 
great  showman  and  loved  to  act — he  would  get 
up  and  show  one  of  us  how  a  scene  went.  Upon 
these  occasions  the  actors  stood  about,  mouths 
opened,  eyes  aflame  with  admiration,  and 
watched.  I  remember  once  he  was  doing  the 
mother's  role  and,  his  long,  horse-like  face 
turned  heavenwards,  he  called  out,  "My  son, 
my  son,  can  you  hear  me  there  in  heaven?  Say 
that  you  hear  me — speak  to  me." 

We  were  spellbound  but  I  realize  now  that  it 
was  pretty  bad,  pretty  melodramatic  acting. 
As  he  finished,  quite  pleased  with  himself,  he 
happened  to  glance  at  my  mother.  In  spite  of 
the  fact  that  she  thought  I  could  be  an  actress, 
she  has  a  grand  sense  of  humor  and  she  was 
amused  at  Griffith's  acting  and  showed  it  in 
her  eyes. 

SENSITIVE,  quick  to  see  any  play  of  emo- 
tion, Griffith  realized  that  she  knew  it  was 
phony. 

He  shrugged  his  shoulders  sheepishly, 
"Well,  it  goes  something  like  that,"  he  said 
and  sat  down. 

Along  with  the  great  beauty  of  which  the 
man  was  capable  there  was  also  in  him  a  strong 
Rabelaisian  streak  and  a  love  of  horse  play.    I 


think  that  "Way  Down  East"  was  a  perfect 
picture  of  the  man.  He  had,  by  his  supreme 
artistry,  made  those  dull  characters  come  alive 
(Lord!  he  had  intensity  and  emotion  upon  the 
screen)  but  he  had  also  let  his  love  for  vulgarity 
and  horse  play  run  rampant.  "Broken  Blos- 
soms" was  Griffith  at  his  best. 

(~\$  another  stage  Dorothy  Gish  (she  wore  a 
^-'black  wig  then — remember?)  made  com- 
edies. They  called  this  "the  pep  company." 
Elmer  Clifton,  who  was  later  to  direct  "Down 
to  the  Sea  in  Ships,"  directed  her,  and  Dick 
Barthelmess  who  was,  so  my  mother  said, 
"much  too  big  for  his  breeches,"  played  the 
lead.  Dorothy  had  a  temper  and  it  was  not  an 
unusual  sight  to  see  her  stomping  through  our 
stage  muttering  to  herself,  her  thin,  yellow  hair 
wound  round  hairpins  so  the  wig,  which  she 
had  no  doubt  just  thrown  off,  would  fit  closely. 
Griffith  thought  she  was  cute  when  she  was  an- 
noyed and  Miss  Lillian  adored  her.  She  was  so 
entirely  different  from  Lillian  (about  whom 
there'll  be  more  later  on). 

Once  Griffith  took  his  company  into  the  pro- 
jection room  to  see  a  picture  Dorothy  had  just 
completed. 

He  sat  there  without  smiling  and,  as  the 
thing  unfolded,  he  would  say,  "That's  very 
funny,"  or  "That  is  not  so  funny,"  or  "Better 
do  that  over  again.    Make  a  note." 

Dorothy  seemed  to  feel  that  he  did  not  like 
the  picture  and  she  left  the  projection  room  in 
tears,  her  heels  clicking  on  the  pavement. 

Carol  Dempster  was  always  quiet.  She  used 
to  say,  "Mr.  Griffith  thinks  I'm  an  actress,  but 
I'm  not.  I'm  only  a  dancer."  She  was  quite 
right,  of  course,  and  it  was  Griffith  who  brought 
out  of  her  the  talent — such  as  it  was — that  she 
displayed  on  the  screen. 

But  it  was  a  different  story  with  Clarine 
Seymour.  Here  was  a  great  artist,  a  fluid  little 
person  with  large,  dark  eyes  and  dark  hair 


Lillian  Gish  in  Griffith's  old  tear-jerker,  "The  Greatest  Question."    The 

author  of  this  story  rehearsed  that  part,  but  Lillian  played  it.     That  was 

twelve  years  ago 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


I  19 


standing  at  angles  around  her  head.  You 
remember  her  in  "Scarlet  Days,"  perhaps.  She 
died,  following  a  major  operation,  a  year  or  so 
later.  At  the  risk  of  sounding  sentimental  1 
say  that  of  all  the  actresses  Griffith  discovercl 
I  believe  Clarine  Seymour  had  the  most  to  give, 
that  she  had  the  keenest  talent  of  them  all. 
Unlike  Gish  she  was  an  emotional,  tempera- 
mental little  person. 

Bobby  Harron  was  the  sweetest  of  them  all. 
Once  Griffith  said  to  my  mother,  "He  is  like  a 
pure  young  girl.  That  boy  has  never  done  any- 
thing that  you  would  not  want  your  daughter 
to  do."  He  died,  or  so  they  said,  of  a  broken 
heart.  He  was  in  love  with  Dorothy  but 
Dorothy  couldn't  see  him. 

On  days  when  there  were  no  rehearsals  they 
used  me  for  general  handy  man.  I  remember 
making  an  insert  for  some  picture.  The  lead- 
ing woman  is  supposed  to  grab  a  gun  that  has 
been  thrown  on  the  floor.  A  close-up  of  this 
action  was  made  and  it  was  my  hand  that 
grabbed  the  gun. 

A  ND  then  came  the  word  that  Griffith  was 
■**going  to  move  to  a  studio  in  New  York. 
I  was  very  discouraged  for,  with  rehearsals 
ended  and  "The  Greatest  Question"  in  pro- 
duction, he  seemed  to  ignore  my  existence  com- 
pletely. I  used  to  go  to  the  studio  and  see  him 
come  off  the  set,  but  I  was  too  foolish  and  too 
timid  to  ask  him  anything. 

I  decided,  therefore,  that  I  had  not  pleased 
him,  that  my  great  career  was  over,  that  as  an 
actress  I  was  a  failure.  And,  afraid  of  hearing 
these  truths,  I  kept  silent.  So  I  went  home  one 
day,  packed  the  picture  hat,  wiped  off  the 
sickly  smile  and  we  moved  to  another  part  of 
town,  without  leaving  a  forwarding  address. 
If  there'd  been  a  river  handy  I'd  have  jumped 
in.  But  Hollywood  is  an  arid  land  so  I  bore  my 
sorrow  and  my  failure. 

In  the  papers  I  read  that  Griffith  had  moved 
to  New  York.  That  chapter  of  my  life  was 
ended.  I  would  not  be  a  D.  W.  Griffith  dis- 
covery. There  was  only  one  small  ray  of  hope. 
Once  Griffith  had  given  me  letters  of  introduc- 
tion to  Douglas  Fairbanks  and  Mary  Pickford, 
who  were  not  married  to  each  other  at  the  time. 
I  decided  that  when  my  eyes  were  not  so  red 
and  I  could  smile  again  I'd  present  them. 

Griffith  was  gone  and  I  was  a  failure. 

Many,  many  years  later  I  walked  into  Harry 


October 
Birthdays 

October    1 — Alice  Joyce 
October    2 — Rita  LaRoy 
October    3 — Claude  Allister,  Warner  Oland 
October    4 — Buster  Keaton,  Carroll  Nye 
October    5 — Kathryn  Crawford 
October    6 — Janet  Gaynor,  Carole  Lombard 
October    7— Jack  Mulhall 
October    8 — Edythe  Chapman 
October    9 — Marjorie  Beebe,  Jeanette  Loff 
October  10 — Harry  Richman 
October  11 — Lowell  Sherman 
October  12— Karl  Dane 
October  13 — Irene  Rich 
October  14 — Lillian  Gish 
October  15 — Ina  Claire 
October  16— Rex  Bell,  Molly  O'Day 
October  17 — Jean  Arthur,  Marian  Marsh 
October  18 — Miriam  Hopkins 
October   20 — Evelyn    Brent,    Bela   Lugosi, 
Marian  Nixon,  Purnell  Pratt 
October  21— Lloyd  Hughes 
October  22 — Mitzi  Green,  James  Hall 
October  23— Sally  O'Neil,  Lilyan  Tashman 
October  24— Gilda  Gray 
October  25 — Polly  Ann  Young 
October  26 — Jackie  Coogan,  H.  B.  Warner 
October  27 — John  Boles 
October  28— Hugh  Trevor 
October  29 — Fanny  Brice,  Charles  Chase 
October  30 — Sue  Carol 


non-smuT 


SUEDE    DRESSING 


o  POSITIVELY  WILL  NOT 
SMUT  OR  RUB  OFF 

•  GIVES  A  SMOOTH 
EVEN  COLOR 


•  CANNOT  MAT  THE  SUEDE 

•  KEEPS  THE  LEATHER  SOFT 

•  BRUSHES  UP  VERY  EASILY 


You've    known    the    embarrassment,    no    doubt,    of 
dirty    smudges    from    suede    dressings.      Cinderella 
Non-Smut  Dressing  will  not  smut  or  rub  off.     Luck^ 
L^^"     for  your  new  fall  and  winter  suede  slippers!    Ji 
B^    the  thing  for  your  suede  bag,  too.     And  that  smart 
Y     suede   belt.      Try   this   perfect   Cinderella    Dressin; 
that  will  not  smut.     For  all  the  new  shades. 

•  SOLD  BY  THE  BETTER  STORES  EVERYWHERE 

MADE  BY 

EVERETT  &  BARRON  COMPANY 


LONDON 


PROVIDENCE 
PARIS 


TORONTO 


4&?^DIRECTING 
PLAYS 


Big  oppoitunities  in  this  fascin* 
ating,  uncrowded  profession,  Tight 
now  I  Learn  to  direct  plays,  page- 
ants, musical  shows,  movies,  radio 
dramas  —  at  home —  by  mail/  A 
complete  course — hacked  hy  12  yra. 
experience.     Endorsed  by  leaders. 

Cash  m  on  your  talent ,'  Write 
today  for  book  —  "A  Brilliant 
Future  in  Play 
Directing  " —  Free. 

Drama  Directors  Inst. 

102    Plymouth     BIdg. 
Des    Moines,  Iowa 


EARN 

THAT    CHRISTMAS 
SPENDING    MONEY 

Old  established  house  wants  dignified 
representation  in  every  community  to 
sell  superior  Personal  Christmas  Greet- 
ing Cards.  Many  exclusive  imported 
novelties.  Highest  commissions.  Beautiful 
sample  book  free.  Full  Box  Assortment 
line.  Start  early  before  friends  buy 
elsewhere.  Write  Rochester  Art  Co 
167  St.  Paul  St.,  Rochester,  N.  Y. 

SELL   PERSONAL 
GREETING  CARDS 


New  Perfume 

The  most  exquisite  perfume  in  the  world! 
Sells  at  $12  an  ounce  —  $2.50  for  bottle 
containing  30  drops. 

Rieger's  Flower  Drops  are  the  most  refined 
of  all  perfumes.  Made  from  the  essence  of 
flowers,  without  alcohol. 

ROMANZA 

(The  aristocrat  of  perfumes) 
A  single  drop  lasrs  a  week.  Hence  very  eco- 
nomical. Never  anything  like  this  before! 

sfe0nrd  TRIAL  BOTTLE 

Send  only  20c  (silver  or  stamps)   for  a  trial  bottle. 
Paul  Rieger  &  Co.,    140     Firs!  St.,  San  Francisco 


CONVINCE 

YOURSELF 

Accept 

Special 

Offer 


FORM 
DEVELOPED 

"PLAT  chested?  Fashion  demands  the 
r  full,  minified  shapeliness  of  the  wom- 
anly form.  The  stars  of  I  folly  wood  are 
developing  their  feminine  charm.  You, 
too.  can  quickly  add  extra  fullness  where 
needed.      Mv    new   method    plumps  out 

the  hollows  and  hnilda  firm.  youthful  tlanM,  Ju-t 
TRY  my  wi.ndrrful  MIRACLE  CREAM  and 
•pecinl  developing  instructions! 

GIVEN  Write  Today 

Pend  nnlv  JI.00  for  Inrce  jar 
of  NANCY  LEE  MIRACLE  CREAM  (in  plain 
wrapper)  and  1  will  include  mv  -per.r.1  Ffouw- 
Mnuldint  Cour«e  nnd  complete  rvdv-e.-  Tftka 
advance  of  thi-  hie  offer—  write   AT  ONCEI 

NANCY  LEE    D«Pt  MO 

816  Broadway,         New  York,  N.  Y. 


I  20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


REMEMBER 
THESE   EYES? 


First  a  hit  on  the  stage,  this  blonde  comedienne 
now  is  winning  new  laurels  in  Warner  Bros. 
Pictures.  She  is  5  ft.,  4  in.  tall,  weighs  115  lbs. 
and    has    sparkling    gray    eyes.     Name    below*. 

eyes  win  love 
of  most  men 

"Out  of  every  1,000  lovers,"  says 
the  New  York  Times,  "more  men 
fall  in   love  with  Avomen's   eyes 
than  with  any  other  feature." 
Keep   your    eyes    always    clear, 
bright  and  alluring  by  apply- 
ing  a    few  drops    of  harmless 
Murine  each  day.  It  enhances 
their    sparkle   and    quickly 
clears  up  any  bloodshot  con- 
dition resulting  from  late 
hours  or  outdoor  exposure. 
60c  at  drug  and  dept.  stores. 


*Joan  Blondell 


1H 


UR11SC 

f"0RY°UR 


Requires  no  insanitary  eye  cup! 


GRAY 
STREAKS? 

A  famous,  clear,  colorless 
liquid  brings  youthful  color 
to  fading  strands.  Just  comb 
it  through  hair.  Gray  streaks 
vanish.  Color  comes:  black, 
brown,  auburn, blonde.  Entire- 
ly SAFE.  Leaves  the  hair  soft, 
lustrous — easy  to  curl  or  wave 

We'll  send  complete  Test  Package 
FREE.  Apply  to  single  lock  snipped 
from  hair.  See  results  yourself.  Will 
you  try  it  ?  Just  mail  the  coupon. 

--MARY  T.  GOLDMAN-"' 

2432  Goldman  Bldg.,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 


..State.. 


of  your  hair? ' 


Carr's  office  (he  was  then  the  Sunday  editor  of 
the  Los  Angeles  Times)  to  try  to  sell  him  a 
story  I'd  written.  "I  know  you,"  he  said,  "I 
know  your  face." 

I  knew  that  I'd  never  met  him  and  said  so. 

"Wait  a  minute,"  he  went  on,  "I've  seen 
you.  You  caused  me  a  lot  of  trouble.  I  was 
looking  for  you.  Wait — I've  got  it.  Did  you 
ever  know  D.  W.  Griffith?" 

I  nodded. 

"TLJOLY  cats!  It  all  comes  back.  Griffith 
-*- •'■wanted  to  take  you  to  New  York  with 
him  when  he  moved  his  studios  to  Mamaro- 
neck.  He  said  you  were  a  find,  a  big  bet,  but 
when  he'd  finished  shooting  'The  Greatest 
Question'  and  he  sent  for  you,  you'd  moved 
and  left  no  address. 

"He  sent  for  me — I  was  working  for  him  at 
the  time — had  your  tests  run  off.  He  told  me 
to  find  you.  You'd  done  some  swell  work  for 
him,  something  about  splashing  in  a  mud 
puddle  or  throwing  an  apple  peeling  over  your 
shoulder  in  a  rehearsal.  He  said  you  were 
natural,  just  what  he  wanted.  And  he  gave  me 
hell  when  I  couldn't  find  you. 

"I  looked  everywhere  for  you  and  I  watched 
your  test  over  and  over  again  so  I'd  know  your 
face  and  grab  you  if  I  ever  happened  to  see  you 
on  the  streets.  And  now  here  you  are — too 
late.    Let  me  see  that  story  you've  got  there." 

Next  month  the  letters  to  Pickford 
and  to  Fairbanks  are  presented,  and 
I  get  a  job  at  the  old  Metro  Studios— 
now  abandoned  and  considered  an 
abode  of  stellar  ghosts  by  the  natives 
of  Hollywood.  There  I  meet  Nazim- 
ova,  May  Allison,  Viola  Dana, 
Buster  Keaton  and  others.  I'll  tell 
you  about  it  in  the  next  issue  of 
Photoplay. 


Why  One  Marriage 
Failed! 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  31  ] 

it  was.  What  everybody  didn't  know  was  that 
this  marriage  of  two  supreme  individualists 
came  within  a  case  ace  of  being  a  star-spangled, 
180-proof  success! 

Seldom  have  two  human  molecules  been  as 
strongly  attracted  as  were  John  Gilbert  and 
Ina  Claire. 

For  the  first  time  in  his  mad  career,  Jack  dis- 
covered the  charms  of  a  first-rate  mind  in  a 
beautiful  woman.  He  hadn't  the  faintest 
notion  that  such  a  combination  existed.  As  for 
Ina,  nobody  had  ever  told  her  that  a  man, 
famous,  mature  in  years  and  handsome  of 
person,  could  have  the  spirits  and  humors  of  a 
well-fed  freshman. 

Why,  they  caught  fire  like  a  drought  hay- 
field! 

THEY  were  as  mad — as  goofy — about  each 
other  as  two  people  can  be  and  not  blow  up. 
Boy,  I  saw  them  a  week  after  the  wedding,  and 
I  know! 

Then,  too,  they  had  much  in  common.  Both 
were  ace  figures  in  the  world  of  public  enter- 
tainment. 

They  spoke  the  same  language  fairly  fluently. 
They  had  some  mutual  friends. 

That  was  all  very  well  and  good,  and  I  was  a 
sucker  and  took  some  of  the  long-shot  money. 
I  had  a  hunch  the  thing  might  come  off,  and  I 
played  it. 

They  are  both  such  swell  people — I  figured 
that  each  could  sink  a  little  of  their  enormous 
egos  for  the  common  good,  and  make  a  merry 
match  of  it. 

You  give  a  little — I'll  give  a  little — that's 
the  way  the  marriage  racket  goes. 

But  I  was  a  boob.    What  I'd  forgotten  was 


3,000  RING 
found  in 
bath  tub 


THIS  departing  guest  was 
frantic:  A  $3,000  diamond 
ring  lost — and  he  couldn't  wait 
to  look  for  it.  With  agony  in 
his  voice,  he  called  the  United 
Manager.  Three  hours  go  by. 
The  guest  has  gone,  but  the 
manager  is  still  on  the  job. 
A  wild  idea  —  the  Manager 
pokes  a  flash-light  down  the 
bath  tub  drain — there's  a  faint 
sparkle — plumbers  arrive,  the 
drain  gives  up  a  $3,000  ring. 
Another  true  story  proving 
that  United  Managers  do  the 
impossible  in  finding  lost  ar- 
ticles. This  extra  service  costs 
the  hotel  money?  Yes,  but 
what  of  it.  Extra  service  is 
taken  for  granted  at  United 
Hotels,  just  "like  larger  rooms 
per  dollar— and  handy  garage 
accommodations. 

Extra  service  at  these  2j 

UNITED  HOTELS 

NEW  YORK  city's  only  United . . .  .The  Roosevelt 

PHILADELPHIA,  PA The  Benjamin  Franklin 

Seattle,  wash The  Olympic 

Worcester,  mass The  Bancroft 

Newark,  n.j The  Robert  Treat 

Paterson,  N.  j The  Alexander  Hamilton 

TRENTON,  N.  J The  Sracy-Trent 

Harrisburg,  pa The  Penn-Harris 

Albany,  N.  Y The  Ten  Eyck 

Syracuse,  N.  Y The  Onondaga 

ROCHESTER,  N.  Y The  Seneca 

NIAGARA  FALLS,  N.  Y The  Niagara 

ERIE,  PA The  Lawrence 

akron,  OHIO The  Portage 

flint,  mich The  Durant 

Kansas  city,  mo The  President 

TUCSON,  ARIZ El  Conquistador 

san  francisco,  cal The  St.  Francis 

Shreveport,  LA The  Washington  -Youree 

new  Orleans,  I.A The  Roosevelt 

new  Orleans,  LA The  Bienville 

Toronto,  ont The  King  Edward 

NIAGARA  falls,  ont The  Clifton 

WINDSOR,  ONT The  Prince  Edward 

Kingston,  JAMAICA,  B. w.  I.  .The  Constant  Spring 

<P» 


that  they  were  too  old  to  give  and  not  take. 
Ina  was  set  in  her  imperious,  queenly  ways — 
Jack,  moody  and  ego-centric  and  a  bit  mad,  in 
his'n. 

I  lost  my  dough.  I  don't  mind  that  so  much, 
in  spite  of  hard  times.  What  I  do  mind  is  that 
two  charming  people  let  me  and  twenty  million 
others  down  flat. 

And  consarn  and  dingbust  it,  I'm  sorry  for 
their  sakes,  for  two  more  interesting  folks  never 
flipped  a  nifty. 

AHOY  and  avast,  mates — two  self-centered 
units    couldn't    combine,    that    was    all. 
They'd  passed  years  of  marital  discretion. 

Ina  found  herself,  once  the  moonlight  had 
worn  off,  hitched  to  an  impetuous,  dizzy 
schoolboy  who  laughed,  pouted  and  raved  by 
turns. 

And  Jack,  to  his  dismay,  discovered  that  in 
in  the  palace  of  Ina  Claire,  queen  of  New 
York's  uptown  wits,  there  was  room  for  only 
one  throne — and  that  was  hers. 
.  The  wonder  isn't  that  they  split  in  a  few 
months.  The  wonder  is  that  they  didn't  beat 
each  other's  brains  out. 

For  the  big  egos  simply  wouldn't  give  in — 
and  the  Devil  chuckled  and  chalked  up  an- 
other goose-egg  on  the  matrimonial  score- 
board! 

Well,  being  regular  people  and  not  Holly- 
wood monkeys  like  a  lot  I  could  name  (and 
would  for  a  couple  of  rubles),  both  have 
behaved  mighty  well. 

Ina  mildly  filed  suit  for  divorce,  charging 
good  old  "mental  cruelty,"  which  means  any- 
thing from  pouting  at  breakfast  to  eating  soda 
crackers  in  bed.  Jack,  like  a  little  major,  said 
nothing. 

Ina  intimated  that  some  of  the  mental 
cruelty  consisted  in  Jack's  saying  that  she  was 
"too  intelligent." 

That's  the  tipoff.  I  can  picture  it — can't 
you?  Jack,  raging  and  storming,  and  the 
glacial,  self-possessed  Ina  answering  him  with 
unanswerable  logic  and  not  emotional  tor- 
nadoes. Why,  that's  the  answer  in  the  shell  of 
a  nut,  and  a  small  one  at  that!  The  stormy 
Gilbert  just  hasn't  any  answers  for  the  mental 
machine-gunning  of  a  girl  like  Claire.  It's 
nothing  against  him. 

I  dare  say  there's  hardly  a  man  alive  who 
could  go  up  against  Ina  at  her  rapier-like  best 
and  finish  better  than  second! 

No  financial  settlement.  No  raised  voices, 
no  rancour.  No  cheap  publicity.  Neither 
really  needs  the  other's  dollarinos.  Gilbert  has 
raked  in  a  million  dollars  worth  of  blue  chips 
from  Metro  in  the  last  two  years,  at  $10,000  a 
week,  and  Ina's  been  in  the  big  money  since  she 
put  up  her  hair. 

It  was  all  very  nice,  and  quiet. 

And  what  now? 

(~~\H>  Ina  will  get  along  great.  She  always  has 
^'and  always  will.  Jack's  contract  is  up  this 
fall,  and  his  fate  is  in  doubt.  There's  been  a  lot 
of  boloney  about  the  worthlessness  of  his  talkie 
voice. 

It's  all  right!  He  gave  a  grand  performance 
in  "Gentleman's  Fate,"  and  he'll  give  plenty 
more  before  he's  washed  up  and  ready  for  the 
Actor's  Home. 

A  fine  actor.  They'll  go  just  dandy  in  single 
harness. 

And  here's  a  hunch.  Jack,  behaving  beauti- 
fully in  Hollywood,  is  reliably  reported  to  be 
still  hunting  for  a  woman  with  the  charm, 
beauty  and  intelligence  of  Ina  Claire. 

Isn't  it  heart-breaking  that  they  couldn't 
|  make  it  go? 

No  little  baby-faced  nitwit  with  the  mind  of 
|  a  stuffed  doll  is  going  to  satisfy  Gilbert  from 
now  on.    He's  lived  with  the  best! 

Well,  good  luck,  sweet  people!  It's  all  a 
darned  shame. 

But  if  you'll  excuse  a  little  personality,  my 
sorrow  is  not  unmixed  with  hope.  There  may 
be  a  chance  for  me,  once  more.  Even  my  worst 
friends  know  that  I've  been  in  love  with  Ina 
Claire  for  years! 


62J  Prize 


why(T)changed-to-marlbokox:ointest 

Mrs.  Charles  T.  Adams,  Chicago. 


lVlarlboros  were  introduced  to  me  one 
evening  at  a  dinner  party.  One  single  cigarette 
was  enough  to  convert  me.  The  Ivory  Tip 
makes  for  daintier  smoking.  Delicate,  sooth- 
ing tobacco  leaves  the  mouth  sweet  and  clean. 

IVlarlboro  is  unquestionably  the  smart 
cigarette.  It  is  now  the  supreme  smoking 
delight  of  my  family  and  guests. 


. . .  55%  more 
in  safety  and 
enjoyment  at 
only  5  cents 
more  in  price 


MARLBORO 


vO«»  T  iPPf  01 


//' 


l£ 


m- 


STARS  *"* 


fmtm 


..ifffim 

The  screen 
greatest    celebrities    have 
honored    Hotel   Sherman. 

Will  Rogers 
Mary  Pickford 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Constance  Talmadge 
Lupe  Velez 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Vilma  Banky 
Rod  La  Rocque 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Ronald  Colman 
Gloria  Swanson 
Wallace  Beery 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Jean  Harlow 
Polly  Moran 
Spencer  Tracy 
Wally  Ford 

Single  Room  with  Bath $2. 50, 

$3.00,  14.00  and  $5.00 

Double  Room  with  Bath 

$4.00,  $5.00,  $6.00 

and  $8.00 


find  luxurious 
comfort  and 
hospitality  un- 
surpassed at 

CHICAGO/ 


DRIVE 

Your  Cor 

Right   into 

Hotel 
Sh*rmon 


*M 


SiSSI 

VMS1 


w 

t* 


RANDOLPH ■ CLARK ■ LAKE 


in. 

■aim 

■••at1 


■  ■  I  ■■  ■■■■  r.i..af. 

LA  SALLE-  STREETS 


HOTEL  SHERMAN 


I  22 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


0"t  from  Paris! 

They're  hot . .  .  these  two  new 
rouge  shades,  styled  by  Po-Go. 

Cardinal  answers  the  modern 
maiden's  prayer,  for  extremely 
vivid,  daring  color.  Saumon  is 
the  delicate  tint  for  blondes. 

For  just  50c,  Po-Go  gives  you  the 
thrill  of  Paris -smartness.  This 
smooth,  blending,  long -lasting, 
hand- made  rouge  is  waiting  for 
you  right  around  the  corner — in 
a  box  that  tells  you'TmFrench!" 

Or  you  can  get  Po-Go  by  mail.  Send50c  to 
GuvT.  Gibson,  Inc.,  565-5th  Av.,  N.Y.  C. 

£5"G«  ROUGE 

Cardinal — newest,  brightest  shade.  Sau- 
mon- most  delicate,  lightest  tinge.  Ronce, 
raspberry.  Brique,  medium.  Vi/,  bright. 


Made  and 
Packaged 
in  France 


©  1931 
G.T.C.Inc. 


GRAY 
HAIR 


•>•> 


Don't  endure  the  unfairness 
of   age-telling   gray,   faded 
or  streaked  hair.     Tint  it 
instantly    to    its     natural 
youthful  shade  and  lustre — 
any  desired  color  from  light- 
est blond  to  midnight  black. 
Just  comb  thru  clean,  harm- 
ess,  odorless  Brownatone.   No 
fuss,  no  muss.  Immediate,  guar- 
anteed results.  At  all  dealers,  50c 
Or  send  10c  for  trial  bottle. 
Kenton  rhj.in.Kdl  Co..  Dept.   F-15,   Brownatone   Bldg.,  Covington,  Ky 

Canadian  Address,  Windsor.  Ontario 


B 


ROWNATONE 

TINTS  GRAY  HAIR  ANY  SHADE 


RVz  Price 


Trial 


Save  over 
7B-Rock  Bottom 
Price  on  all  Btandard  office 
models— Underwood,  Remintf- 
loo.  Royal,  etc.  —  Easiest  terms  ever  of- 
fered. Also  Portables  at  reduced  prices. 

SEND  NO  MONEY 

All  lata    models  completely   refmished^ 
like  brand  new.  Fully  Guaranteed. 
Sent  on    19  days'  trial.     Send    No 
Money.  Biff  Free  Catalog  shows  actu- 
al machines  in  full  colors.  Greatest  bar- 
gains ever  offered.  Send  at  oncel  I 

International  Typewriter  Exch.,  oeptibsS? cScajn 

Particulars  of  Dr.  Esenwein's  £amou9  forty  - 
lesson  course  in  writing  and  marketing  of  the 
Short-Story  and  sample  copy  of  The  Writer's 
Monthly  free.    Write  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL 
Dept,  95.  Springfield,  Mass. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

I  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  12  ] 


SPORTING  BLOOD— M-G-M  —  The  biography 
of  a  race  horse.  Not  interested?  All  right,  then, 
Clark  Gable  has  a  featured  role.  That  should  get 
you.     It's  a  good  movie.     (Sept.) 

•     SQUAW     MAN,     THE— M-G-M— A     new 
version  of  a   grand  old  story.      See  it  by  all 
means.     Warner  Baxter  and  Lupe  Velez.     (Aug.) 

•  STAR  WITNESS,  THE— First  National.— 
At  last!  An  entirely  new  plot  with  suspense, 
humor,  heartache.  Walter  Huston,  Chic  Sale  and 
Frances  Starr  are  in  it.     Worth  your  time.     (Sept.) 

•  STEPPING  OUT  — M-G-M— Charlotte 
Greenwood,  Leila  Hyams,  Reg.  Denny,  Cliff 
Edwards,  Merna  Kennedy,  Harry  Stubbs  and  Lilian 
Bond  make  this  light  comedy  one  continual  laugh. 
See  it.     (May) 

STOLEN  HEAVEN— Paramount. — Slow,  unreal 
story.  Nancy  Carroll  and  Phillips  Holmes  fine  in  the 
romantic  moments.     (April) 

•  STRANGERS  MAY  KISS— M-G-M.— Norma 
Shearer,  the  last  word  in  sophistication  and 
beautifully  gowned  in  a  vivid  drama  of  modern  life  by 
the  same  author  as  "The  Divorcee."  To  be  seen. 
(May) 

SUBWAY  EXPRESS— Columbia.— Jack  Holt  in 
a  thrilling  mystery  of  the  stage  that  lost  its  kick  in  the 
movie  version.     (July) 

•  SUSAN  LENOX,  HER  FALL  AND  RISE 
— M-G-M-. — Romance  spread  thick,  passion 
strong.  You  Garbo-maniacs  will  eat  it  up.  Clark 
Gable  plays  opposite.     Don't  miss  it.     (Sept.) 

SVENGALI  —  Warners. — Well  worth  seeing  for 
John  Barrymore's  superb  performance  in  the  title 
role.  The  story  is  rather  gruesome.  Don't  take  the 
children.     (June) 

SWA  NEE  RIVER— Sono  Art- World  Wide.— 
Thelma  Todd  and  Grant  Withers  try,  but  just  can't 
save  this  melodrama  from  being  anything  but  ordi- 
nary.    (May) 

SWEEPSTAKES—  RKO-Pathe.—  Some  romance, 
thrills  and  fast  lines  in  a  race-track  yarn.  Quillan 
and  Gleason  take  honors.     (Aug.) 

*TABU — Paramount. — A  poem  of  a  picture  laid 
in  the  South  Seas,  with  an  all-native  cast, 
beautifully  directed  by  the  late  F.  W.  Murnau.  Fine 
synchronized  musical  score.     (May) 

TAILOR  MADE  MAN,  A— M-G-M.— The  jaunty 
and  self-confident  Bill  Haines  plays  this  old  Charlie 
Ray  silent  with  a  new  restraint  that  is  delightful. 
You'll  laugh  and  like  it.     (May) 

TARNISHED  LADY— Paramount.— Introducing 
Tallulah  Bankhead,  from  Alabama  and  the  London 
stage,  in  a  heavy  love  diama.  Clive  Brook  is  the  lead- 
ing man.     (June) 

TEXAS  RANGER,  THE— Columbia.— Carmelita 
Geraghty  is  the  gal.  Buck  Jones  the  hero.     (July) 

3  LOST  GIRLS— Fox.— Loretta  Young,  Joan 
Marsh  and  Joyce  Compton  are  the  three  little  girls 
who  come  to  the  big  city.  Lew  Cody  good  as  the 
racketeer  and  John  Wayne  not  so  good.     (April) 

THREE  LOVES— Terra.— Marlene  Dietrich  is 
the  only  reason  for  seeing  this  three-year-old  Ger- 
man silent.    (Aug.) 

THREE  WHO  LOVED— Radio  Pictures.— Ex- 
cellent acting  by  Betty  Compson  and  Conrad  Nagel 
in  a  production  that  suffers  from  too  much  story. 
(Aug.) 

TOO  MANY  COOKS  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Bert 

Wheeler's  first  starring  picture,  minus  Mr.  Woolsey. 
Plenty  of  laughs,  some  lumps  in  the  throat  and  Doro- 
thy Lee  as  the  heart  appeal.     (June) 

•  TRANSATLANTIC  —  Fox.  —  Edmund  Lowe 
and  Greta  Nissen  plus  an  exciting  melodramatic 
plot,  make  this  one  of  those  hit  pictures  you  mustn't 
fail  to  see.     (Sept.) 

TRANSGRESSION— Radio  Pictures.— The  same 
old  angle  of  the  eternal  triangle.  Kay  Francis  wears 
swell  clothes.      (Aug.) 

TRAPPED— Big  Four.— Fights,  songs,  gangsters, 
night  clubs,  murders,  chases,  plus  a  confused  plot. 
(June) 

TRAVELING  HUSBANDS— Radio  Pictures. 
Risque  but  not  objectionably  so.  Top-notch  acting, 
with  Evelyn  Brent  in  the  lead.    (July) 


TWO-GUN  MAN,  THE— Tiffany— A  Western  in 
old  swashbuckling  style,  nothing  new  but  good  enter- 
tainment.    Ken  Maynard  and  horse!     (Aug.) 

UNFAITHFUL— Paramount.— Ruth  Chatterton, 
a  society  matron  who  can't  divorce  her  faithless  hus- 
band (Paul  Cavanaugh)  without  involving  herkown 
sister-in-law,  and  so  goes  to  the  dogs.  Good  for  the 
Chatterton  fans.     (May) 

UP  FOR  MURDER— Universal.— (Reviewed  un- 
der the  title  "Fires  of  Youth.")  Talkie  version  of 
the  old  silent,  "Man,  Woman  and  Sin."  Lew  Ayres 
and  Genevieve  Tobin  struggle  through.  Pretty  badly 
worn  plot.     (April) 

UPPER  UNDERWORLD  —  First  National.  — 
Different  from  the  average  racketeering  picture  and 
bound  to  make  you  think.     (July) 

UP  POPS  THE  DEVIL— Paramount.— Young 
love  and  its  struggles  neatly  handled  by  Norman 
Foster,  as  a  young  author,  and  his  wife,  played  by 
Carole    Lombard.      Sprightly    dialogue      (July) 

•  VICE  SQUAD,  THE— Paramount.— Besides 
being  something  that  will  keep  you  interested, 
this  is  a  picture  you'll  think  about.  Paul  Lukas,  Kay 
Francis  and  Helen  Johnson  are  excellent.     (July) 

VIKING,  THE— Varick  Frissell  Production.— A 
picture  of  the  boat  that  met  Arctic  tragedy.  Good 
photography.    (A  Kg.) 

VIRTUOUS  HUSBAND,  THE— Universal.— One 
of  those  over-sexed  things.  Starts  off  to  be  a  howl 
and  then  goes  serious  and  ends  by  being  pretty  bad. 
(June)i 

WAITING  AT  THE  CHURCH— Radio  Pictures. 
— An  amusing  story  with  lovely  Technicolor  effects. 
(July) 

•  WATERLOO  BRIDGE  —  Universal.  —  It's 
morbid,  yes,  but  it's  intelligent  and  honest 
screen  fare.  A  war  background,  but  don't  let  that 
stop  you.     You'll  like  Mae  Clarke.     (Sept.) 

WHITE  SHOULDERS— Radio  Pictures— Rex 
Beach's  dramatic  story  makes  an  interesting  picture. 
Jack  Holt,  Mary  Astor  and  Ricardo  Cortez  form  the 
triangle.     (July) 

WILD  HORSE— Allied.— Hoot  Gibson  captures  a 
wild  horse,  a  bank  bandit,  a  murderer  and  his 
audience's  approval,  all  in  one  handsome  gesture. 
(Sept.) 

WILD  WEST  WHOOPEE— Cosmo.— Jack  Perrin 
in  a  conventional  Western  saved  by  a  thrilling  rodeo 
sequence  and  the  noble  work  of  his  horse.  Starlight. 
Josephine  Hill  is  the  heroine.     (May) 

WOMAN  BETWEEN,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— 
Heavy  drama  with  lots  of  emotion  and  a  song  from 
Lily  Damita.  Miriam  Seegar  is  the  one  bright  spot. 
(June) 

WOMAN  OF  EXPERIENCE,  A— RKO-Pathe.— 
Only  average  entertainment,  in  spite  of  a  cast  which 
does  its  best.  Helen  Twelvetrees,  ZaSu  Pitts  and 
Lew  Cody.     (July) 

WOMEN  GO  ON  FOREVER— Tiffany-Cruze.— 
Your  old  friend  Clara  Kimball  Young  makes  a  good 
comeback  in  this  story  of  racketeers  and  illicit  love. 
A  lively  film  with  plenty  of  comedy  relief.     (Sept.) 

WOMEN  LOVE  ONCE— Paramount.— Produc- 
ers wasted  their  time  and  that  of  Eleanor  Boardman 
and  Paul  Lukas  on  this  one.    (Aug.) 

WOMEN  MEN  MARRY  —  Headline  Prod.  — 
Don't  take  this  picture  too  seriously  and  you  may 
not  find  it  too  dull.  Sally  Blane  is  nice  and  Natalie 
Moorhead  wears  startling  clothes.     (Sept.) 

WOMEN  OF  ALL  NATIONS  — Fox.— Edmund 
Lowe  and  Victor  McLaglen  as  Quirt  and  Flagg  of 
"What  Price  Glory"  fame,  continue  their  adventures. 
Good,  rough  entertainment,  but  not  a  Sunday  school 
text.     (July) 

YOUNG  AS  YOU  FEEL— Fox.— Another  grand 
Will  Rogers'  film,  funny  enough  to  make  you  forget  a 
toothache.     (July) 

•  YOUNG  DONOVAN'S  KID— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Good.  From  Rex  Beach's  story  "Big; 
Brother."  Little  Jackie  Cooper  practically  steals  the 
show  in  spite  of  Dix's  excellent  work.     (July) 

YOUNG  SINNERS — Fox.— The  old  story  of 
modern  kids  in  a  jazz  and  cocktail  setting.  Thomas  I 
Meighan  is  a  bright  spot,  Dorothy  Jordan  and  Hardie 
Albright  give  an  exhibition  of  couch  wrestling.   (July)  , 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


12 


DANDRUFF 

A  Sure  Way  to  End  It 

There  is  one  sure  way  that  never  fails  to  re- 
move dandruff  completely,  and  that  is  to  dissolve 
it.  Then  you  destroy  it  entirely.  To  do  this, 
just  apply  a  little  Liquid  Arvon  at  night  before 
retiring;  use  enough  to  moisten  the  scalp  and 
rub  it  in  gently  with  the  finger  tips. 

By  morning,  most,  if  not  all,  of  your  dandruff 
will  be  gone,  and  two  or  three  more  applications 
will  completely  dissolve  and  entirely  destroy 
every  single  sign  and  trace  of  it,  no  matter  how 
much  dandruff  you  may  have. 

You  will  find,  too,  that  all  itching  of  the  scalp 
will  stop  instantly  and  your  hair  will  be  lustrous, 
glossy,  silky  and  soft,  and  look  and  feel  a  hun- 
dred  times  better. 

You  can  get  Liquid  Arvon  at  any  drug  store 
and  a  four  ounce  bottle  is  all  you  will  need. 

This  simple  remedy  has  never  been  known  to 
fail. 

EasyQHAPE^ 
O^NOSE 

Anita  Nose  Adjuster 
shapes  flesh  and  car- 
tilage— quickly,  safely, 
painlessly,  while  you 
sleep  or  work.  Lasting 
results.  Doctors  praise 
it.  Gold  Medal  Winner. 
87,000  users.  Write 
for  FREE  BOOKLET. 

ANITA   INSTITUTE.  L-28,  Anita  Bldg..  Newark,  N.  J. 


ii 


Madison 

Overlooking  Ocean  at  Illinois  Ave. 

ATLANTIC  CITY,  N.  J. 

Now  Is  thetime  to  visit  Autumn  In 
its  natural  setting  .  .  .  'mid  an  at- 
mosphere of  Colonial  charm  and  quiet  seclusion  in 
the  smartest,  liveliest  part  of  the  resort. 

Attractive  Fall  Rates  on  American  and  Euro- 
pean Plans.     Eupene  C.   Fetter,  Mnp.   Dir. 


FETTER 


HOLLINGER,      INC 


CORNS 

—  relieved  in  ONE  minute 
by  these  thin,  healing,  safe 
pads!  They  remove  the  cause 
— shoefrictionand  pressure. 

Or Sch oil's 
Zino-pads 


-SORE  TOES 


Sizes  also  for 
Callouses  and  Bunions 


MakePHOTOGRA 
Mur  Career 

This   two   billion  dollar  industry  offers 

splendid  opportunities   as 

C I  Moi  ton  Ftetare  CameranuB  and  Protectionist 

I  "Still"  Photographer  and  Photo  Finisher 

Easy  to  learn  by  our   simplified  method. 

SEND  FOR  FREE  BOOK 

giving  full  Details.   State  which  Interests  you. 

NEW  IDEM  LVmil  OF  PHOTOCJurBT .    JO  West  i3rd  SL  Qept.  37,  *<w  ****• 


Falling  Star 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  54  j 

Robert  Yore,  her  new  leading  man  before  she 
became  aware  of  him.  She  wouldn't  have 
even  then  but  for  Sam  Alwein — and  Lili  Hajos. 

Lili  had  turned  in  another  good  picture. 
Segne  Cleve  saw  it  the  night  it  was  previewed 
at  the  Alexander  Theater,  in  Glendale.  She 
recognized  it  as  better  than  good.  It  probably 
would  be  hailed  as  one  of  the  Ten  Best  of  the 
Year.  The  Hungarian,  Segne  recognized  as 
she  sat  alone  in  the  darkness  of  the  theater, 
had  developed  amazingly.  And  the  story  and 
direction  were  both  excellent. 

She  had  no  personal  feelings  about  either 
the  picture  or  the  actress,  beyond  a  faint 
interest.  Her  presence  at  the  preview  was 
an  accident.  The  Alexander,  far  removed 
from  Hollywood  as  it  was,  happened  to  be 
one  of  her  favorite  spots.  She  was  so  safe 
from  any  chance  of  being  recognized  in  her 
tweed  disguise. 

But  the  next  morning  when  she  arrived  in 
her  dressing-room  to  make  up,  her  maid  said: 

"\yf  R.  YORE  has  been  here  twice  this  morn- 
■*-"-*-ing.  He  wants  to  see  you.  He  says  it's 
awful  important." 

"Mr.  Yore?"  The  name  meant  nothing  to 
her. 

"Yes.  Your  leading  man.  He's  all  excited." 
And  as  a  timid  knock  sounded  on  the  door, 
"I  guess  that's  him  now." 

"Show  him  in,"  Segne  ordered  and  sat 
down  at  her  make-up  table. 

Robert  Yore  was  tall,  dark  and  slim.  His 
brown  eyes  were  soft.  He  had  a  tiny  mustache. 
His  smile  was  appealing.  But  he  wasn't  smil- 
ing now. 

"Miss  Cleve,"  he  plunged,  "I've  got  to 
know  why  I've  been  unsatisfactory  to  you. 
I  know  I'm  not  well  known.  When  I  got  the 
part,  I  knew  it  was  the  opportunity  of  a 
lifetime.  Every  actor  prays  for  the  chance  to 
act  opposite  you.  And  I  thought  I  was  doing 
all  right  till  this  morning — " 

She  motioned  for  him  to  stop. 

"Sit  down,  please,"  she  said  and  picked  up 
a  cigarette  and  accepted  the  light  he  offered. 
"What  about  this  morning?" 

In  the  act  of  sitting  down,  he  stared  at  her. 

"Why,  I  was  notified  that  I've  been  taken 
out  of  the  part."  Tears  welled  in  his  eyes. 
"It  wouldn't  have  been  so  bad  if  I  had  never 
been  given  it.  But  to  get  it  and  then  have 
it  taken  away — why,  Miss  Cleve,  I'll  never 
get  another  chance  in  pictures.  I'll  be  branded 
as  a  flop." 

She  eyed  him  levelly  through  the  smoke  of 
her  cigarette.  There  was  something  about 
him  that  made  her  think  of  Padraic  West- 
brook. 

Padraic,  soul  brother  of  Pan  and  Puck,  and 
Pandora,  their  sister — 

"There  has  been  a  mistake,"  she  told  him, 
"I'm  sure.  Don't  worry  about  it.  You'll 
play  the  part." 

He  thanked  her  effusively,  almost  tearfully 
— which  threatened  to  destroy  the  illusion. 
Padraic  never  thanked  anybody  for  anything. 
When  he  went  away,  she  sent  for  John  Broad- 
well. 

"V.  THAT'S  the  idea  of  taking  the  part  away 
**  from  Mr.  Yore?"  she  asked  him. 
"It's  Mr.  Alwein's,"  he  told  her.  "He  saw 
Lili  Hajos'  new  picture  last  night  and  he 
thought  Yore  was  too  light  to  play  opposite 
you."  Broadwell  grinned.  "He  told  me  you 
needed  every  bit  of  help  Mammoth  can  give 
you." 

John  Broadwell  watched  her,  smiling.  He 
expected  an  explosion.  But  she  gave  no  sign. 
She  sat  there  in  her  old  tweed  suit  and  blue 
beret,  smoking  her  cigarette.  She  took  a  long 
last  pull  and  tamped  it  out  in  the  ash  tray. 
Then  she  got  up  from  her  seat. 


1143 


OT7l£Jl 

IN  USING   THIS 

B>ecLujti|  ZJAjejxk/rrLQjrdt 
|ox  Ha/rLcL) 


km 

J 

' 

9  ■- 

■    ±Mm\ 

frdm 

^L  j* 

m^-r** 

Think  of  it!  A  lotion  for  hands  and  arms  that  is 
completely  absorbed  in  only  37  seconds,  leaving 
the  skin  velvet  soft  and  smooth.  That  is  what 
stop  watch  tests  on  the  hands  of  1143  women 
proved  to  be  the  average  drying  time  for  Cham- 
berlain's Lotion.  So  rapidly  does  this  clear  liquid 
penetrate  the  pores  that  no  bothersome  massage 
is  necessary. 

Chamberlain's  Lotion  is  not  greasy,  sticky  or 
messy  and  it  has  a  delightful  orange  blossom 
fragrance. 

Used  after  dishwashing  or  housework,  it  keeps 
hands  from  becoming  rough  or  cracked.  When 
your  skin  is  chapped  or  burned  from  wind  or 
weather,  it  brings  instant  relief.  And  you'll  find 
it  an  excellent  powder  base  and  astringent. 

Surely,  you  will  want  to  try  this  quick,  easy 
way  to  keep  your  hands  and  arms  always  well 
groomed  and  presentable.  Buy  Chamberlain's 
Lotion  at  your  favorite  drug  store  or  toilet  goods 
counter,  50c  and  $1.  Or  mail  coupon  for  purse 
size  flaconette. 

Chamberlain's 

LOTION 

^nvLStblc  Qiove 


To  prove  to  yourself 
how-  quickly  Chamber- 
lain's Lotion  rx- 
hands  and  arms,  send 
coupon  and  10c  for  pur>e 
size  flaconette,  a  two 
week's  supply 


Chamberlain  Laboratories 
Dcpt.  2,  Des  Moines,  Iowa 
Enclosed  is  10c.  Please  send  me  the  purse  size  flacoo  of  Cham- 
berlain's Lotion. 

Name 

Address 

City State 


124 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


The  symbol  of 

HEARTBREAK  AGE 

comes 

HEAD  FIRST! 

It's  gray  hair,  dear  lady.  Don't  delude 
yourself  about  it.  For  it's  the  unfailing 
sign  of  heartbreak  age,  irrespective  of 
what  your  friends  may  tell  you.  If  you 
would  avoid  this  age-announcing  per- 
iod, use  NOTOX.  Then  you  can  safely 
discard  those  undeserved  years.  Yet  not 
with  that  horrible  "dyed"  look,  heaven 
forbid!  NOTOX  is  undetectable  because 
it  scientifically  deposits  the  color  inside 
the  hair  shaft,  instead  of  crusting  the 
hair  with  a  surface  plate  of  dye,  as  do  all 
old-fashioned  "clear  white  restorers." 
NOTOX  leaves  your  hair  as  glossy,  fine 
and  supple  as  ever,  undetectably  natural. 
Washing,  waving  or  sunning  NOTOXED 
hair  does  not  affect  it  in  the  slightest.  Try 
NOTOX  today.  Resent  a  substitute . . .  a 
like  product  does  not  exist.  Buy  NOTOX 
for  home  use  at  smart  shops  everywhere. 

OTOI 

MADE  BY  INECTO  Inc.  33  W.  46t."ST.  NEW  YOR.K 


DR.    WALTER'S 

latest  REDUCING  BRASSIERE 

gives  you  that  trim,  youthful  fig- 
i  re  that  the  new  styles  demand. 
3to4inchreduction.  Send  d>o  OC 
bust  measure.  Price  only  *«•«■' 
HIP.  WAIST  and  ABDOMINAL 
REDUCER  for  men  and  women; 
takes  « are  of  that  ugly  roll  above 
'  onset.  Laced  at  back,  tfo  en 
Price  only «po.i»W 

RELIEVE  swelling  and  va 
Vina  and  reduce  your  limn: 
DR.  WALTER'S  fa 


irh $5.00  pair 

inch        .    S6.75   pair 

inch S3.7S 

(not  covering  foot) 
All     earn 
made   of 
rubber  —  flesh 
ored. 

Writeforliterat 
ney  order — no  c; 

Dr.  Jeanne  P.H.Waller.  389  Fifth  Ave.,New  York 

Lijelash  £fjcaulificr 

tantly  transforms  lashes  into  a 
k,  rich  luxuriant  fringe  of  love- 
liness. Lends  sparkling  bril- 
liance  and   shadowy,  invit- 
|  ing  depth  to  the  eyes.  The 
/  easiest  eyelash  beautifier  to 
apply  . . .  Perfectly  harmless. 
Used  by  thousands. Try  it.  Sol- 
id or  waterproof  Liquid  May- 
bolline,  Black  or  Brown,  75c 
at  all  toilet  goods  counters. 
MAYBELLINB  CO..  CHICAGO 

flKtfene  s^lKestre 

1.  and  CULTURAL  subjects  for  personal  development  —  Stage.  Teach, 
inc.  Direct  it,;:.  Drama.  Stage  and  Concert  Dancing.  Vocal.  Screen.  Mu- 
.ical  Comedy.  Elocution  St. .ok  Theatre  and  plalform  appearances  while 
learning.      1  ■  or    catalog    16  apply    P.  Ely.  Sec'y,    66  W.  85th  St.,    N.  Y. 


"Tell  Mr.  Alwein,"  she  said,  "that  Mr. 
Yore  is  just  the  help  I  need.  And  I  don't 
appreciate  Mr.  Alwein's  at  all.  As  a  casting 
director,  he's  a  splendid  general  manager — 
maybe.  And  I  don't  feel  like  working  today. 
And  Lili  Hajos  holds  onto  her  lines  too  long. 
And  I'm  not  going  to  argue  with  him.  When 
he  decides  to  put  Mr.  Yore  back,  tell  him  to 
send  me  a  telegram.  Until  then,  he  can  go 
to  blazes." 

Sam  Alwein  quivered  with  indignation  when 
he  got  her  message.  What?  One  of  his 
actresses  refusing  to  do  what  he  told  her?  Get 
Miss  Cleve  on  the  telephone.  He'd  talk  to 
her  himself.  But  he  didn't.  A  booming  and 
emotionless  Swedish  voice  burst  out  of  the 
receiver  with  the  information  that,  "Miss 
Cleve  is  busy.  No,  she  won't  talk  to  Mr. 
Alwein.  She  says  to  tell  him  to  send  her  a 
telegram." 

Sam  Alwein  sent  the  telegram.  Segne  Cleve, 
glancing  over  it  indifferently,  held  it  in  her 
hand  and  wondered  what  it  was  about  Robert 
Yore  that  reminded  her  of  Padraic  West- 
brook. 


TN  the  morning,  when  Hilda  laid  out  the 
-Lold  tweed  suit,  the  battered  blue  beret  and 
the  walking  shoes,  Segne  Cleve  eyed  them 
distastefully. 

"I'm  tired  of  those  rags,"  she  said.  "Find 
me  something  soft  and  feminine." 

Robeit  Yore's  gratitude  pleased  her.  When 
he  spoke,  softly  and  humbly,  she  smiled  and 
told  herself  that  he  looked  and  acted  enough 
like  Padraic  to  have  been  his  twin.  Which 
was  sheer  delusion.  Yore  no  more  resembled 
Padraic  than  a  parrot  does  an  eagle.  It  was 
a  symptom  of  the  love  that  hit  her  suddenly 
like  a  bolt  from  the  blue  sky  of  her  casual 
indifference. 

And  it  was  characteristic  of  Yore  that  he 
grasped  the  fact  immediately  and  proceeded 
to  take  advantage  of  it. 

Segne  Cleve  in  love  with  Robert  Yore!  He 
saw  his  name  in  lights  on  the  Main  Street  of 
every  town  in  the  world. 

So  a  new  Segne  Cleve  appeared  in  Holly- 
wood. She  was  a  well-groomed  Segne  Cleve, 
rising  out  of  the  heap  that  was  her  old  tweed 
suit. 

She  was  a  sociable  Segne  Cleve,  who  enter- 
tained ;  nd  went  places  to  openings  and  things. 
Never,  it  is  true,  alone.  Always  with  Robert 
Yore,  her  leading  man. 

What  was  the  use,  asked  Robert  Y'ore  of 
his  image  in  the  glass,  as  he  admired  the 
arch  of  his  own  eyebrows,  of  having  a  woman 
fall  for  you,  if  you  couldn't  advertise  her  fall? 

Especially  when  the  woman  was  Segne 
Cleve! 

Certainly  they  went  places.  Every  place 
that  it  was  good  for  Robert  Yore  to  be. 

It  was  thus  she  learned  what  a  celebrity 
she  was.  She  encountered  the  silent,  awesome 
pause  that  greeted  her  every  entrance,  the 
strong  flattery  of  her  charms  and  her  position 
as  the  screen's  greatest  actress,  the  mirror  of 
her  beautiful  self  in  the  eyes  of  others.  And 
she  savoured  the  sweetness  of  it  all  and 
craved  even  more  of  it. 

The  happy,  warm,  animated  beauty  of  a 
woman  in  love  flowered  from  the  bud  that 
had  been  Segne  Cleve's  cold,  taciturn  and  in- 
different self. 

"CARLYone  Sunday  morning,  Segne  Cleve,  in 
*-'a  green  sports  costume,  and  Robert  Yore, 
sped  southward  in  her  new,  shiny  sports 
roadster  toward  Santa  Monica  for  a  look  and 
a  breath  of  her  beloved  sea. 

She  swung  the  roadster  off  the  highway  into 
a  parking  place  from  which  they  could  see 
miles  of  beach,  and  beyond  it  the  restless 
ocean. 

Mackerel  clouds  scudded  across  the  blue  sky. 
Graceful  gray  gulls  rose  and  soared  and  glided 
down  to  be  cradled  in  the  waves. 

"Darling,"  she  whispered,  "isn't  it  beautiful? 
Are  you  very,  very  sure  you  love  me?" 

Robert  Yore  took  her  hand  (Padraic  West- 


brook  would  have  glared  at  her)  and  reverently 
kissed  it. 

"I  never  knew  what  love  was,"  he  said, 
"till  I  met  you."  (Padraic  would  have 
snarled,  "Hell,  yes!"  But  Robert  did  look 
like  Padraic.)  "I  would  give  my  life  for  you," 
went  on  Robert. 

"17"ISS  me,  then,"  she  said,  and  closed  her 
-^eyes  so  that  Robert  Yore  might  for  an 
instant  become  Padraic  Westbrook. 

He  kissed  her  lingeringly,  and  sighed. 

"You're  gorgeous!"  he  murmered.  "You're 
as  wonderful  a  woman  as  you  are  an  actress. 
I  wish  I  dared  say  something  to  you." 

"What  is  it,  dear?" 

"It's  about  Broadwell,  your  director.  Segne, 
you  let  him  get  away  with  murder.  He's 
taking  the  kick  out  of  our  biggest  scenes. 
He  keeps  me  in  the  background.  Of  course,  I 
realize  I'm  only  a  foil  for  you.  You're  what 
the  people  want  to  see.  But  the  more  love- 
making  I  do,  the  more  thrill  the  audience 
will  get.  After  all,  I'm  the  man  and  the  man 
should  dominate." 

Segne  Cleve  shuddered  and  reluctantly 
opened  her  eyes  and  gazed  seaward.  She  was 
furiously  angry.  What  did  it  matter  how  a  scene 
was  played?  It  was  nothing  but  make-be- 
lieve. And  Robert  had  a  peculiar  idea  of  the  fit- 
ness of  things.  Of  all  times  to  bring  up  business, 
he  had  to  choose  the  moment  he  had  just 
kissed  her.  She  turned  and  looked  at  him, 
anger  glowing  icily  in  her  eyes.  But  his  eyes 
were  full  of  her. 

"I'm  only  telling  you  for  your  own  good," 
he  said.  "You'll  forgive  me,  won't  you? 
Segne,  I  hate  to  see  anyone  taking  advantage 
of  you." 

Of  course.  She  smiled  and  patted  his  hand. 
He  was  right.  She  could  see,  now  that  he 
called  her  attention  to  it,  that  John  Broadwell 
was  bungling.  She  would  take  it  up  with  him 
in  the  morning. 

She  looked  out  over  the  sea  and  her  gaze  was 
wistful.  Padraic,  she  thought,  would  never 
think  of  anything  but  love  when  he  was  mak- 
ing love. 

Padraic  was  so  concentrated.  But  Padraic 
was  dead — 


WHEN  she  sauntered  onto  the  stage  the 
next  morning,  she  was  dynamite  swathed 
in  silk.  But  John  Broadwell  did  not  know 
that.  The  scene  they  were  to  shoot  was  the 
pivotal  scene  of  the  story,  the  one  in  which 
she  would  lure  the  hero  to  her  apartment  and 
make  love  to  him,  reclining  on  a  divan. 

John  Broadwell,  watching  her  as  she  walked 
onto  the  set  wrapped  in  her  sheer,  daring 
negligee,  knew  he  had  never  seen  her  look  so 
beautiful.  The  halo  of  her  blonde  hair  seemed 
alive. 

Her  eyes  were  slumbrous,  her  full  lips  trem- 
bled as  if  on  the  verge  of  surrender,  her  walk 
was   undulating. 

When  she  took  her  place  on  the  divan,  every 
line  of  her  body  was  accentuated  by  her  silken 
costume. 

And  Robert  Yore  was  a  perfect  foil.  He 
was  probably  the  handsomest  actor  in  Holly- 
wood. And  the  weakness  so  apparent  in 
his  face  would  help  to  put  over  the  fact  that 
he  was  easy  game  for  her,  something  his  act- 
ing could  never  do.  Yore,  Broadwell  realized 
with  awe,  was  probably  the  worst  actor  he 
had  ever  directed. 

"All  right,"  he  said,  "let's  walk  through  it. 
You  know  the  lines  and  the  business.  Miss 
Cleve,  you  don't  care  anything  for  this  man. 
But  you  want  him  to  think  you  do.  Just 
the  hint  of  emotion.  You're  promising  him. 
But,  when  he  kisses  you,  your  feelings  get  out 
of  control.    Let's  go." 

And  the  dynamite  exploded. 

Before  the  startled  eyes  of  the  director,  the 
players  awaiting  their  cues,  the  electricians 
and  the  "grips,"  Segne  Cleve  and  Robert 
Yore  played  that  scene  so  amateurishly  and 
grotesquely  that  it  looked  and  sounded  like 
a  cruel  burlesque. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,   19 


Segne  Cleve's  bosom  heaved.  Her  eye 
widened.  Her  mouth  spread  in  a  silly  smirk. 
Her  voice  was  babyish. 

She  acted  like  a  fifty-year-old  woman  trying 
to  pass  for  sixteen. 

YORE  struck  attitudes,  his  dialogue  was  de- 
claimed in  chest  tones.  He  was  the  con- 
quering male. 

So  terrible  was  the  performance  that  John 
Broadwell  got  angry. 

"Cut  out  the  horse-play,"  he  barked.  "Play 
the  scene  right.     Let's  try  it  again." 

They  tried  it  again  and  this  time  they  were 
even  worse.  Gradually  it  dawned  upon  the 
director  that  they  were  both  serious.  His 
anger  increased. 

"Miss  Cleve,"  his  voice  was  soft  and  cutting. 
"You're  too  old  a  trouper  to  play  any  scene 
that  way.    It's  ridiculous.    Let  me  show  you." 

Segne  Cleve  sat  up  and  pulled  her  negligee 
about  her. 

"You're  bungling  the  picture,"  she  declared 
coldly.  "People  have  noticed  it.  Now  I'm 
through  taking  your  direction.  I'm  through 
taking  anybody's  direction.  For  four  years 
I've  been  living  the  way  a  cracked  artist  told 
me  to  live.  He  taught  me  that  an  actor  was 
nothing  but  a  sounding  board,  a  monkey-on-a- 
stick  that  danced  when  somebody  pulled  the 
string.  He  said  that  was  all  an  actor  was  good 
for.  He  made  me  believe  that  it  didn't  matter 
what  happened  to  me  as  long  as  I  got  the 
message  of  beauty  across." 

Her  voice  grew  suddenly  shrill.  "He  lied! 
I'm  more  than  a  monkey-on-a-stick!  I'm  a 
human  being!  And  the  things  that  happen 
to  me  are  the  only  things  that  matter.  Noth- 
ing else  is  important.  From  now  on,  I'm 
playing  my  scenes  as  I  feel  them.  And  if 
you  don't  want  to  direct  me,  someone  else 
will!" 

John  Broadwell  stared  at  her,  open-mouthed. 
He  looked  at  Robert  Yore  and  saw  the  faint 
sneer  on  his  face  that  betrayed  the  conspirator 
who  has  inveigled  someone  else  into  saying 
the  thing  he  doesn't  dare  say  himself.  He 
knew  that  Segne  Cleve  thought  she  was  in 
love  with  this  ham  actor,  who  was  taking 
advantage  of  her  love. 

"Okay,  Miss  Cleve."  He  at  length  broke 
the  stunned  silence.  "We'll  shoot  it  as  you 
feel  it  from  now  on.    Lights." 


E  percolated  through  the  Mammoth  walls. 
^  permeated  into  other  studios.  It  rose  in 
a  miasmic  mist,  like  poison  gas,  along  the 
boulevards,  that  "Lovers  and  Sons"  was  going 
to  be  a  flop  and  Segne  Cleve's  long  reign  as  a 
star  was  over. 

Lili  Hajos,  the  Hungarian,  the  gossip  had 
it,  would  take  her  place. 

Segne  Cleve,  herself,  heard  it  in  several 
places,  but  she  merely  shrugged  her  shoulders. 
Of  course,  it  wasn't  true.  And  even  if  it  were, 
it  wasn't  important.  She  was  sick  of  work. 
In  a  month  or  so,  when  they  were  through 
shooting  on  the  picture,  she  and  Robert 
were  going  down  to  Palm  Springs  to  for- 
get it. 

One  morning,  made  up  early,  she  slipped 
down  to  Robert  Yore's  dressing-room  to 
surprise  him  with  a  kiss  before  the  day's  work 
began. 

She  paused,  her  hand  raised  to  knock,  for 
Robert  was  speaking  passionately. 

"You're  gorgeous!"  he  was  saying.  "I  never 
knew  what  love  was  till  I  met  you!" 

"But  Segne  Cleve?"  a  woman's  voice  asked. 
"What  about  her?" 

"Oh,  Segne  Cleve,"  said  Robert  scornfully. 
"I  can't  help  it  if  she's  in  love  with  me. 
But  I'd  be  a  fool  to  throw  away  my  chances. 
The  whole  picture  swings  around  me  now. 
I'll  be  playing  opposite  Lili  Hajos  next. 
And  then  I'll  be  starred.  Kiss  me,  hon. 
Please—" 

Very  softly  she  returned  to  her  dressing- 
room  and  sat  down  and  lit  a  cigarette.  She 
felt  as  though  she  had  been  awakened  from 


a  sound  sleep  by  a  bucket  of  cold  water.  But 
she  had  awakened  sane — and  indifferent.  So 
Robert  Yore  had  been  using  her.  Well,  that 
was  fair  enough. 

She  didn't  blame  him.  Hollywood  was 
Hollywood. 

Thinking  of  Hollywood,  she  felt  a  faint  dart 
of  fear.  They  thought  she  was  through.  Look- 
ing back  on  the  last  two  weeks,  she  remembered 
the  look  in  their  eyes.  That  expectant  look, 
like  that  of  a  wolf  pack  waiting  for  its  trapped 
prey  to  weaken  and  sink  to  the  ground.  Or 
Hollywood  screen  players,  watching  the  in- 
evitable downward  swoop  of  a  falling  star. 

\fi AYBE  she  had  failed.  No,  she  believed 
-'■''-'■they  could  still  save  "Lovers  and  Sons." 
When  the  assistant  director  knocked  at  her 
door  to  call  her  on  set,  she  told  him  to  send 
John  Broadwell  to  her. 

"I'll  be  good,"  she  smiled  at  him  when  he 
came  in  and  stood  looking  uncertainly  at  her. 
"Was  I  pretty  awful,  John?"  Her  indifferent 
gaze  did  not  attempt  to  evade  his. 

"So  you  are  all  over  it!"  He  grinned  slowly. 
"I'll  say  you  were  awful!  'Lovers  and  Sons' 
is  just  about  a  mess.  Gee,  Segne,  I  waited  a 
long  time  for  you  to  snap  out  of  it.  I  was 
beginning  to  think  you  never  would.  We'll 
have  to  spend  about  a  month  on  retakes." 

"You're  the  boss,  John,  from  now  on. 
They've  got  me  buried  already  in  this  town. 
You've  got  to  dig  me  out.  I'm  about  due 
for  a  resurrection." 

Robert  Yore  was  beside  himself.  No  one 
consulted  him  about  the  retakes.  The  first 
he  knew  of  them  was  when  he  got  orders  to 
change  his  costume  for  a  retake  of  the  scene 
in  which  she  makes  love  to  him.  He  strode 
into  her  dressing-room. 

"Look  here,  Segne!"  he  stormed,  "what's 
the  idea  of  retaking  that  scene?  It  was  perfect. 
Why,  in  it  I  did  some  of  the  best  work  of  my 
career!" 

Segne  took  a  puff  on  her  cigarette  and  smiled 
at  him  through  its  smoke. 

"About  that  career  of  yours,  Robert,"  she 
said  thoughtfully,  "with  your  looks  and  your 
idea  of  what  women  owe  you,  I'd  say  it  lay 
among  the  yearning  wealthy  women  of  New 
York,  or  London,  or  Paris,  or  Berlin — or  even 
Hollywood.  You  see,  Robert,"  her  low  voice 
crackled  like  a  bull  whip,  "I  overheard  you 
talking  to  that  woman  in  your  dressing-room 
this  morning." 


T>  OBERT  YORE,  like  many  men  before 
-*-Miim,  learned  that  the  woman  he  had  held 
so  lightly  was  the  thing  he  wanted  most  in 
all  the  world,  the  thing  he  could  not  do  with- 
out. 

But  his  chances  were  gone  —  forever.  He 
had  this  burned  into  him  as  he  worked  in 
"Lovers  and  Sons,"  to  the  end  which  was  so 
triumphant  for  her  and  so  bitter  for  him. 

The  night  the  first-night  audience  rose  cheer- 
ing at  the  picture's  close,  proclaiming  it  Segne 
Cleve's  greatest,  he  slunk  away  and  sought 
refuge  in  a  swanky  speakeasy  on  Sunset 
Boulevard. 

Leaving  it  at  three  in  the  morning,  he  stag- 
gered in  front  of  a  taxicab  and  suddenly  found 
all  his  problems  solved  and  his  heartache 
soothed — in  death. 

At  noon  Segne  Cleve,  lolliflg  in  her  negligee 
in  her  bedroom,  picked  the  morning  paper 
out  of  the  mound  of  congratulatory  telegrams, 
and  read  of  his  passing.  She  stared  at  the 
purple  hills  for  a  long  time,  calm,  emotionless. 

"Hilda,"  she  ordered  at  last,  "I  want  my 
old  tweed  suit  and  the  blue  beret,  the  wool 
stockings  and  my  walking  shoes.  And  my 
felt  hat." 

And,  when  the  grim,  silent  Swedish  woman 
had  laid  them  out  for  her,  she  said,  "You 
know,  Hilda,  an  actor  is  just  a  sounding 
board — a  monkey-on-a-stick  that  dances  when 
someone  pulls  the  strings.  It  doesn't  matter 
what  happens  to  you  or  me  as  long  as  we  get 
the  message  of  beauty  across." 

"Yah."  said  Hilda,  who  didn't  know  at  all. 


BATHASWEET 


^9ry  this 

modern  luxury  and 
beauty- treatment . . . 

FREE 


There  was  a  time  when  a  bath  «  as  just  a  hath. 
But  there  was  also  a  time  when  even  to  discuss 
the  body  was  considered  improper.  Now, 
dresses  are  designed  without  backs,  and  bath- 
ing suits  are  made  without  much  of  anything 
at  all  — so  that  we  simply  must  notice  the  bod- 
ies of  others  and  have  them  notice  ours. 

Nowadays,  therefore,  the  bath  should  be  more 
than  a  tubbing — it  should  be  a  beauty  treat- 
ment. That  is  why  the  Bathasweet  bath  has 
become  a  habit  with  so  many  women. 

Bathasweet  not  only  makes  the  bath  as  fra- 
grant as  a  flower  garden,  but  more  important 
still,  it  softens  the  water  so  that  it  cleanses  the 
pores  more  perfectly.  Bathasweet  enables  water 
to  dissolve  the  impurities  in  the  pores  and  to 
keep  them  dissolved.  How  well  it  does  this  is 
indicated  by  the  fact  that  no  "ring"  remains 
around  the  tub  when  Bathasweet  is  used.  As 
a  consequence,  skin-imperfections  disappear, 
and  the  body  takes  on  that  glowing  smooth- 
ness which  is  the  height  of  loveliness. 

Try  Bathasweet  at  our  expense.  Send  for  a 
free  sample.  It  will  convince  you  how  impor- 
tant Bathasweet  can  be  to  your  appearance 
and  how  much  it  adds  to  the  joy  of  bathing. 

25c,  50c,  $1,  $1  50  at  drug  or  department  stores. 


"CpTJ  ~C "C"  A  can  sent  free,  anywhere  in 
JT  JA.1Z/C/  U.  S.  if  you  mail  this  coupon 
with  name  and  address  to  C.  S.  Welch  Co., 
Dept.   P-J.,     1907  Park  Avenue,  New  York. 


126 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


ifCD 

SHADE 


/ju 


i/our 

HAIPw 

? 


....  Tell  me  and  I  will 

tell  yOtl' — 'an  important  little  secret 
about  your  hair  that  will  enable  you  to  bring 
out  all  its  natural  loveliness  and  sheen  in  a 
single,  simple  shampooing. 

Your  hair  has  a  very  definite  shade  of  its 
own — a  shade  at  least  slightly  different  than 
that  of  anyone  else.  If  you  want  to  know 
its  full  beauty,  you  must  pay  as  careful  atten- 
tion to  its  shade  as  you  do  to  your  complex- 
ion when  you  apply  your  "make-up". 

Golden  Glint  Shampoo  reveals  the  full 
beauty  of  your  particular  shade  because  it  is 
used  differently  on  your  shade  than  on  other 

shades.  One  shampoo  and  your  hair  glows  with  a 
new  radiance.  Simple  directions  tell  you  how.  25c 
at  your  dealers'— or  let  me  send  you  a  free  sample  and 
a  personal  letter  about  your  hair. 


FREE 


J.  W.  KOBI  CO.,    630  Rainier  Ave.,  Dept.  K 
Seattle,  Wash.,    »  «  »   .   Please  send  a  free  sample. 

Name 

Address  . 

City. State 


Color  of  my  hair 


Remove  Fat  this 

SURE  WAY 


From  any  Part  You  Wish 
Reduced.  A  New  and  Safe 
Way.  No  Exercise,  Baths 
Diets,  Medicinesor  Special 
Equipment  Necessary. 

Guaranteed  to  Satisfy 

THIN-0-CREME 

a  secret  product  rigidly  tested 
h^s  slenderized  thousands  of 
over -stout  people  who  failed 
throng,  other  means.  THIN-O- 
CREME  has  proven  to  quicklv  re- 
move excess  fat  from  double  chin, 
arms,  abdomen,  chest,  hips.  Ices  or 
any   part    of  the   body.  THIN-O- 

CREME,  a  product  of  modern 
science,  a  cream  -  like  white 
preparation  that  is  simply  rubbed 
y  fat  part  you  wish  re- 
Soon  as  applied  it*  magic- 
like reducing  action  begins  and 
tally  disappear*, 
sinks     deep     into 


THIN-O-CREME 


ag<n 


Limited  Special  Offer!  „.C^E *  "', „™£ 

reduced  price  of  only  $1.93.     Send  no  money  unless  you  wish. 

-  — —  —CLIP   AND    MAIL   COUPON   TODAY-  —  —  —  - 

THIN-O-CREME  CO.,   DEPT.    MA. 
395  Broadway,   New  York,   N.  Y. 

Please  send  postpaid  in  plain  wrapper,  large  jar  of  THIN-O- 
CREME  wild  directions.  I  aeree  to  pay  postman  $1.93,  plua  few 
cenia  postage.       My   money  to  be  refunded   if   1   am   not   pleased. 


I  DEPILATORY    CREAM^^S-H 

Perfumed  —  White — Quick  —  Safe.  Just  spread  i  t  on 
and  rinse  off.  Sold  Everywhere.  GIANT  TUBE  50c 

ZIP Epilator-IT'S  OFF  because  IT'S  OUT 

(Formerly  $5.00)  Now  in  a  new  $1 .00  size  package 


Permanently  Destroys  Hair 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


"AGE  FOR  LOVE,  THE"— Caddo.— Story  by 
Ernest  Pascal.  Adaptation  by  Ernest  Pascal.  Dia- 
logue by  Robert  E.  Sherwood.  Directed  by  Frank 
Lloyd.  Photography  by  Harry  Fischbeck.  The 
cast:  Jean  Hurd,  Billie  Dove;  Dudley  Crone,  Charles 
Starrett;  Sylvia  Pearson,  Lois  Wilson;  Horace  Keals, 
Edward  Everett  Horton;  Nina  Donnel,  Mary  Duncan; 
Jess  Aldrich,  Adrian  Morris;  Dot  Aldrich,  Betty  Ross 
Clarke;  Floyd  Evans,  Jed  Prouty;  Elevanor,  Joan 
Standing;  Mr.  Pearson,  Charles  Sellon;  Annie,  Alice 
Moe;  The  Poet,  Andre  Beranger;  Grace,  Vivian  Oak- 
land; Jules,  Count  Pierre  De  Ramey;  Pamela,  Cecil 
Cunningham. 

"BRANDED" — Columbia. — From  the  story  by 
Randall  Faye.  Directed  by  D.  Ross  Lederman.  The 
cast:  Tom  Dale,  Buck  Jones;  Lou,  Ethel  Kenvon; 
Slaretl.  Wallace  MacDonald;  First  Sheriff,  Philo 
McCullough;  Moore,  Al  Smith;  Swede,  John  Oscar; 
Tex,  Bob  Kortman;  Second  Sheriff,  Fred  Burns. 

"BUSINESS  AND  PLEASURE"— Fox.— From 
the  novel  "The  Plutocrat"  r>y  Booth  Tarkington. 
Adapted  by  William  Conselman  and  Gene  Towne. 
Directed  by  David  Butler.  The  cast:  Earl  Tinker, 
Will  Rogers;  Mme.  Momora,  Jetta  Goudal;  Laurence 
Ogle,  Joe!  McCrea;  Mrs.  Tinker,  Dorothy  Peterson; 
Olivia  Tinker,  Peggy  Ross;  Arthur  Jones,  Cyril  Ring; 
Wackslle,  Jed  Prouty. 

"DAUGHTER  OF  THE  DRAGON  "—Para- 
mount.— From  the  story  by  Sax  Rohmer.  Screen 
play  by  Lloyd  Corrigan  and  Monte  Katterjohn. 
Directed  by  Lloyd  Corrigan.  The  cast:  Ling  Moy, 
Anna  May  Wong;  Fu  Manchu,  Warner  Oland;  Ah 
Kee,  Sessue  Hayakawa;  Ronald  Petrie,  Bramwell 
Fletcher;  Joan  Marshall,  Frances  Dade;  Sir  John, 
Holmes  Herbert;  Morloff,  Nicholas  Soussanin. 

"EXPRESS  13"— UFA.— From  the  story  by 
Rudolph  Katscher  and  Egon  Eis.  Directed  by  Alfred 
Zeisler.  The  cast:  Herbert  Sckmitt,  Heinz  Koenecke; 
Ella,  his  wife.  Fee  Malten;  Dorit,  a  mysterious  blonde, 
Charlotte  Susa;  Slick  Urban,  Ludwig  Anderson; 
Gas  par.  Chief  of  the  Political  Police,  Alfred  Beierle; 
Terry,  his  Assistant,  Victor  Schwannecke. 

"FANNY  FOLEY  HERSELF"— Radio  Pictures. 
— From  the  story  by  Juliet  Wilbor  Tompkins. 
Adapted  by  Carey  Wilson.  Directed  by  Melville 
Brown.  The  cast:  Fanny  Foley,  Edna  May  Oliver; 
Seely,  Hobart  Bosworth;  Lucy,  Florence  Roberts; 
Carmen,  Rochelle  Hudson;  Lenore,  Helen  Chandler; 
Teddy,  John  Darrow;  Burns,  Robert  Emmett 
O'Connor;  Crosby,  Harry  O.  Stubbs. 

"FRIENDS  AND  LOVERS"— Radio  Pictures. 
■ — From  the  novel  by  Maurice  de  Kobra.  Adapted  by 
Jane  Murfin.  Directed  by  Victor  Schertzinger.  The 
cast:  Captain  Roberts,  Adolphe  Menjou;  Alva  Sangrilo, 
Lily  Damita;  Lieut.  Nichols,  Laurence  Olivier;  Victor 
Sangrilo,  Eric  Von  Stroheim;  McNeills,  Hugh 
Herbert;  General  Armstrong,  Frederick  Kerr;  Lady 
Alice,  Blanche  Frederici;  lvanhoff,  Vadim  Uraneff; 
Non  Com,  Lai  Chand  Mehra;  French  Maid,  Yvonne 
D'Arcy;  French  Bar-maid,  Kay  Deslys;  English  Bar- 
maid, Dorothy  W  olbert. 

"GAY  DIPLOMAT,  THE"— Radio  Pictures.— 
From  the  screen  play  by  Benn  W.  Levy.  Adapted  by 
Doris  Anderson.  Directed  by  Richard  Boleslavsky. 
The  cast:  Diana  Dorchy,  Genevieve  Tobin;  Baroness 
Corri,  Betty  Compson;  Captain  Orloff,  Ivan  Lebedeff; 
Blinis,  Ilka  Chase;  Colonel  Gorin,  Purnell  Pratt; 
Natalie,  Rita  La  Roy;  Gamble,  Colin  Campbell; 
Ambassador,  Edward  Martindel;  The  Suave  Man, 
Arthur  Edmund  Carew. 

"GRAFT" — Universal. — From  the  story  by 
Barry  Barringer.  Directed  by  Christy  Cabanne.  The 
cast:  Dusty,  Regis  Toomey;  Constance,  Sue  Carol; 
Pearl,  Dorothy  Revier;  Terry,  Boris  Karloff;  Thomas, 
William  Davidson;  Harrison,  Richard  Tucker; 
Scuddcr,  Willard  Robertson;  Speed,  Harold  Good- 
win; Hall,  George  Irving;  Secretary;  Carmelita 
Geraghty. 

"GUARDSMAN,  THE"— M-G-M.— From  the 
play  by  Ferenc  Molnar.  Adapted  by  Ernest  Vajda. 
Directed  by  Sidney  Franklin.  The  cast:  The  Actor, 
Alfred  Lunt;  The  Actress,  Lynn  Fontanne;  The  Critic, 
Roland  Young;  Liesl.  ZaSu  Pitts;  "Mama,"  Maude 
Eburne;  A  Creditor,  Herman  Bing. 

"HARD  HOMBRE,  THE"— Allied.— From  the 
nory  by  John  Francis  Natteford.  Directed  by  Otto 
Brower.  The  cast:  Peaceful  Potion,  Hoot  Gibson; 
Senora  Martinez,  Lina  Basquette;  Senora  Romero, 
Matilde  Comont;  Mrs.  Ration,  Jessie  Arnold;  Joe 
Barlow,  G.  Raymond  Nye;  Sheriff,  Christian  Frank; 
Ade,  Jack  Byron;  Hard  Hombre,  Frank  Winkleman; 
Juan,  Fernando  Ealvez;  Maw,  Rose  Gore;  Slim,  Bill 
Rob  bins. 

"HUCKLEBERRY  FINN"  —  Paramount.  — 
From  the  story  by  Mark  Twain.  Adapted  by  Grover 
Jones  and  William  Slavens  McNtitt.      Directed   by 


Norman  Taurog.  The  cast:  Tom  Sawyer,  Jackie 
Coogan;  Huckleberry  Finn,  Junior  Durkin;  Becky 
Thatcher,  Mitzi  Green;  Sid  Sawyer,  Jackie  Searl;  Jim, 
Clarence  Muse;  Aunt  Polly,  Clara  Blandick;  Widow 
Douglas,  Jane  Darwell;  Junior,  Eugene  Pallette; 
Senior,  Oscar  Apfel;  Finn,  Warner  Richmond;  Mary 
Jane,  Charlotte  V.  Henry;  Ella,  Doris  Short;  Miss 
Minnie  Watson,  Lillian  Harner;  Mrs.  Thatcher,  Cecil 
W'eston;  Judge  Thatcher,  Guy  Oliver;  Abigail  Prentice, 
Aileen  Manning;  Male  Teacher,  Frank  McGlynn. 

"IMMORTAL  VAGABOND,  THE"— UFA.— 
Adapted  by  RoDert  Liebmann  and  Karl  Hartl. 
Directed  by  Gustav  Ucicky.  The  cast:  Anna,  Liane 
Haid;  Hans  Rilter,  Gustav  Frohlich;  Franz  Lechner, 
H.  A.  Schlettow;  Reisleilner,  Karl  Gerhardt;  Tenor, 
Cavara. 


"LARCENY  LANE"— Warners.— From  the 
story  by  Kubec  Glasmon  and  John  Bright.  Directed 
by  Roy  Del  Ruth.  The  cast:  Bert,  James  Cagney; 
Ann,  Joan  Blondell;  Dan,  Louis  Calhern;  Helen,  Noel 
Francis;  Joe,  Ray  Milland;  Jewelry  Salesman,  Guy 
Kibbee;  Peggy,  Polly  Walters;  Motor  Cop,  Nat 
Pendleton;  Bell-hop,  Ray  Cooke;  Lee, Walter  Percival 

"LAST  FLIGHT,  THE"— First  National  — 
From  the  novel  "Single  Lady"  by  John  Monk 
Saunders.  Directed  by  Wilhelm  Dieterle.  The  cast: 
Cary  Lockwood,  Richard  Barthelmess;  Bill  Talbot, 
John  Mack  Brown;  Nikki,  Helen  Chandler;  The  Out- 
sider, Frink,  Walter  Byron;  Francis,  Elliott  Nugent; 
Shep  Lambert,  David  Manners. 

"MEN  ARE  LIKE  THAT"  (also  shown  under  the 
title  "Arizona")- — Columbia. — From  the  play  by 
Augustus  Thomas.  Adapted  by  Robert  Riskin. 
Directed  by  George  B.  Seitz.  The  cast:  Evelyn, 
Laura  La  Plantc;  Denton,  John  Wayne;  Bonita,  June 
Clyde;  Colonel  Bonham,  Forrest  Stanley;  Conchila, 
Nena  Quartaro;  Dot,  Susan  Fleming;  Peggy,  Loretta 
Sayers;  Hank,  Hugh  Cummings. 

"MONKEY  BUSINESS"— Paramount.— From 
the  story  by  S.  J.  Perleman  and  Will  B.  Johnstone. 
Directed  by  Norman  McLeod.  The  cast:  Groucho, 
Groucho  Marx;  Harpo,  Harpo  Marx;  Chico,  Chico 
Marx;  Zebpo,  Zeppo  Marx;  Lucille,  Thelma  Todd; 
Gibson,  the  First  Male,  Tom  Kennedy;  Mary  Helton, 
Ruth  Hall;  Joe  Helton,  RocklifTe  Fellows;  Capl. 
Corcoran,  Ben  Taggart;  Second  Mate,  Otto  Fries; 
Manicurist,  Evelyn  Pierce;  Opera  Singer,  Maxine 
Castle;  Briggs,  Harry  Woods. 

"MOTHER  AND  SON"— Monogram  Prod.— 
From  the  story  bv  Wellyn  Totman.  Directed  by  J. 
P.  McCarthy.  The  cast:  "Faro"  Lil,  the  Mother, 
Clara  Kimball  Young;  Jeff  Paylon,  the  Son,  Bruce 
Warren;  Joe  Connors,  Gordon  Wood;  Maurine 
Winfteld,  Mildred  Golden;  Mr.  Winfield,  John  Elliott; 
Jameson,  Ernest  Hilliard;  Faro  Dealer,  "Steamboat" 
Simon;  A  Broker,  Thomas  A.  Curran;  A  Barber, 
"Cheyenne"  Mussellman. 

"MURDER  AT  MIDNIGHT"— Tiffany  Prod. 
— From  the  story  by  W.  Scott  Darling.  Directed  by 
Frank  Strayer.  The  cast:  Montrose,  Hale  Hamilton; 
Mrs.  Kennedy,  Aileen  Pringle;  Inspector  Taylor. 
Robert  Elliott;  Grayson,  Leslie  Fenton;  Millie 
Scripps,  Alice  White;  Laurence,  Brandon  Hurst;  Aunt 
Julia,  Clara  Blandick;  Collon,  William  Humphries; 
Mr.  Kennedy,  Kenneth  Thomson;  Charming,  Robert 
Ellis.  • 

"PALMY  DAYS" — United  Artists. — From  the 
story  by  Eddie  Cantor,  Morrie  Ryskind  and  David 
Freedman.  Continuity  by  Keene  Thompson. 
Directed  by  Edward  Sutherland.  The  cast:  Eddie 
Simpson,  Eddie  Cantor;  Helen  Martin,  Charlotte 
Greenwood;  Joan  Clark,  Barbara  Weeks;  Mr.  Clark, 
Spencer  Charters;  Sieve,  Paul  Page;  Yolando,  Charles 
Middleton;  Cake  Eater,  Walter  Catlett;  Plug  Moyni- 
han,  Harry  Woods;  Joe,  George  Raft. 

"PARDON  US"— Hal  Roach-M-G-M.— Super- 
vised by  Hal  Roach.  Directed  by  James  Parrott. 
The  cast:  Stan,  Stan  Laurel;  Oliver,  Oliver  Hardy; 
Warden.  Wilfred  Lucas;  Tigel,  Walter  Long;  Warden's 
Daughter,  June  Marlowe;  Instructor,  James  Finlayson. 

"PRIVATE  SCANDAL,  A"— Headline  Prod.— 
From  the  story  by  John  Francis  Natteford.  Directed 
bv  C.  Hutchison.  The  cast:  Mary  Gale,  Marian 
Nixon;  Daniel  Treve,  Lloyd  Hughes;  Rita  Grey, 
Lucille  Powers;  Matthew  Grey,  Theodore  Von  Eltz; 
Honest  John,  Walter  Hiers;  Count  Raymond  d'Alen- 
courl,  Fletcher  Norton;  "Eddie,"  Eddie  Phillips; 
George,  George  Wells. 

"ROAD  TO  SINGAPORE,  THE"— Warners.— 
Based  on  the  play  oy  Roland  Pertwee.  Story  by 
Denise  Robins.  Directed  by  Alfred  E.  Green.  The 
cast:  Hugh  Dawllry,  William  Powell;  Philippa,  Doris 
Kenyon;  Rene,  Marian  Marsh;  Mrs.  Wey-Smith, 
Allison  Skipworth;  Wey-Smith,  Lumsden  Hare;  Dr. 
George  March,  Louis  Calhern;   Mrs.  Everard,   Ethe 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  October,  1931 


127 


Griffics;  btr.  Evcrard,  Arthur  Clayton;  Dr.  Muir,  A. 
E.  Anson;  Simpson,  Douglas  Gerrard;  Duckworth, 
H,  Reynolds;  Reginald,  Colin  Campbell;  Khan,  Amar 
N.  Sharma;  Alt,  Huspin  Ansari;  Nikki,  Tyrrell  Davis; 
Ayah,  Margaret  Martin. 

"SIDEWALKS  OF  NEW  YORK"— M-G-M.— 
From  the  story  by  George  Landy  and  Paul  Gerard 
Smith.  Directed  by  Jules  White  and  Zlon  Myers. 
The  cast:  Harmon,  Buster  Keaton;  Margie,  Anita 
Page;  Poggle,  Cliff  Edwards;  Butch,  Frank  Rowan; 
Clipper,  Norman  Phillips,  Jr.;  Sergeant,  Frank  La 
Rue;  Judge,  Oscar  Apfel;  Mulvancy,  Sid  Say  lor; 
Lefty,  Clark  Marshall. 

"SILENCE" — Paramount. — From  the  play  by 
Max  Marcin.  Directed  by  Louis  Gasnier  and  Max 
Marcin.  The  cast:  Jim  Warren,  Clive  Brook;  Molly 
Burke,  Marjorie  Rambeau;  Mrs.  Powers,  Peggy 
Shannon;  Norma  Powers,  Peggy  Shannon;  Arthur 
Lawrence,  Charles  Starrett;  Harry  Silvers,  John 
Wray;  Phil  Powers,  Willard  Robertson. 

"SKYLINE" — Fox.— Based  on  the  novel  "East 
Side — West  Side"  by  Felix  Riesenberg.  Screen  play 
by  Kenyon  Nicholson  and  Dudley  Nichols.  Directed 
by  Sam  Taylor.  The  cast:  Jim  McClellan,  Thomas 
Mcighan;  John  Breen,  Hardie  Albright;  Kathleen 
Kearny,  Maureen  O'Sullivan;  Captain  Br, en, 
Stanley  Fields;  Mike  Kearny,  Jack  Kennedy;  Paula 
Lambert.  Myrna  Loy;  Jerry  Gaige,  Donald  Dillaway; 
Mrs.  Kearny,  Alice  Ward;  Judge  West,  Robert 
McWade;  Una,  Elda  Vokel;  Rose  Breen,  Dorothy 
Peterson;  Gilroy,  Lee  Shumway;  Catfish,  Willie  Best. 

"SMART  WOMAN" — Radio  Pictures. — From 
the  play  "Nancy's  Private  Affair"  by  Myron  C. 
Fagan.  Adapted  by  Salisbury  Fields.  Directed  by 
Gregory  La  Cava.  The  cast:  Nancy,  Mary  Astor; 
Don,  Robert  Ames;  Bill,  Edward  Everett  Horton; 
Peggy,  Noel  Francis;  Sally,  Ruth  Weston;  Sir  Guy, 
John  Halliday;  Mrs.  Peterson,  Gladys  Gale;  Brooks, 
Alfred  Cross;  Ellen,  Pearl  Varvelle;  Mrs.  Windle- 
weaver,  Lillian  Harmer. 

"SPIDER,  THE"— Fox.— From  the  play  by 
Fulton  Oursler  and  Lowell  Brentano.  Continuity  by 
Barry  Connors  and  Philip  Klein.  Directed  by 
William  Cameron  Menzies  and  Kenneth  MacKenna. 
The  cast:  Chatrand,  Edmund  Lowe;  Beverly  Lane, 
Lois  Moran;  Alexander,  Howard  Phillips;  Carrington, 
Earle  Foxe;  Ole,  El  Brendel;  The  Kid,  Kendall 
McComas;  Eslelle,  Manya  Roberti;  Tommy,  John 
Arledge;  Dr.  Blackstone,  George  E.  Stone;  Inspector 
Riley,  Purnell  Pratt;  Butch,  William  Pawley;  Gold- 
berg, Jesse  DeVorska;  Schmidt,  Warren  Hymer;  Mrs. 
Wimbleion,  Ruth  Donnelly. 

"STREET  SCENE"— United  Artists.— From 
the  story  by  Elmer  Rice.  Adapted  by  Elmer  Rice. 
Directed  by  King  Vidor.  The  cast:  Rose,  Sylvia 
Sidney;  Sam,  William  Collier,  Jr.;  Abe  Kaplan,  Max 
Montor;  Mr.  Maurrant,  David  Landau;  Mrs. 
Maurrant,  Estelle  Taylor;  Sankey,  Russell  Hopton; 
Easier,  Louis  Natheaux;  Mae  Jones,  Greta  Granstedt; 


Emma  Jones,  Beulah  Bond!;  George  Jones,  T.  H. 
Manning;  Vincent  Jones,  Matthew  McHugh;  Olga 
Olsen,  Adele  Watson;  Karl  Olsen,  John  M.  Qualen; 
Shirley  Kaplan,  Anna  Kostant;  Alice  Simpson,  Nora 
Cecil;  Willie  Maurrant.  Lambert  Rogers;  Dick 
McGann,  Allan  Fox;  Filippo  Florentine,  George 
Humbert;  Greta  Florentino,  Eleanor  Wesselhoeft; 
Mary  Hildebrand,  Virginia  Davis;  Laura  Hildebrand, 
Helen  Lovett;  Charlie  Hildebrand,  Kenneth  Seiling; 
D.  Buchanan,  Conway  Washburne;  Dr.  John  Wilson, 
Howard  Russell;  Officer  Harry  Murphy,  Richard 
Powell;  Marshall  James  Henry,  Walter  James;  bred 
Cullen,  Harry  Wallace. 

"SUNDOWN  TRAIL"  —  RKO-Pathe.  —  From 
the  story  by  Robert  F.  Hill.  Directed  by  Robert  F. 
Hill.  The  cast:  Buck  Sawyer,  Tom  Keene;  Dorothy 
Beats,  Marion  Shilling;  Flash  Prescoll,  Kick  Stuart; 
George  Marslon,  Hooper  Atehley;  Joe  Currier,  Stanli  v 
Blystone;  Jenny.  Louise  Beavers;  Ma  Stoddard.  Alma 
Chester;  Pa  Stoddard,  William  Welsh;  Judge  LaWlor, 
Murdock  MacQuarrie. 

"THIRTEEN  MEN  AND  A  GIRL"— UFA.— 
Based  on  the  play  "The  Last  Company."  Directed 
by  K.  Bernhardt.  The  cast:  Captain  Burk,  Conrad 
Veidt;  Dora,  Karin  Evans;  The  Miller,  Erwin  Kalsar; 
The  Miller's  Wife,  Else  Heller;  The  Maid,  Maria 
Pederson. 

"UNHOLY  GARDEN,  THE"— United  Artists. 
—From  the  story  by  Ben  Hecl.t  and  Charles  Mac- 
Arthur.  Directed  by  George  Fitzmaurice.  The  cast: 
Barrington  Hunt,  Ronald  Colman;  Camille,  Fay 
Wray;  Hen.  Mrs.  Elize  Mowbry,  Estelle  Taylor; 
Baron  de  Jonghe,  Tully  Marshall;  Smiley  Corbin, 
Warren  Hymer;  Colonel  Von  Axl,  Ullric  Haupt; 
Prince  Nicolai  Poliakoff,  Mischa  Auer;  Captain 
Kruger,  Morgan  Wallace;  Dr.  Shayne,  Lawrence 
Grant;  Nick-the-Goose,  Henry  Armetta;  Kid  Twist, 
Kit  Guard;  Mme.  Lucie  Villars,  Lucille  LaVerne; 
Lautrac,  Arnold  Korff;  Alfred,  the  Baron's  Brother, 
Charles  Mailes;  Native  Dancer,  Nadja. 

"WEST  OF  BROADWAY"— M-G-M.— From 
the  story  by  Ralph  Graves  and  Bess  Meredyth.  Con- 
tinuity by  Gene  Markey.  Directed  by  Harry  Beau- 
mont. The  cast:  Jerry,  John  Gilbert;  Axel,  El 
Brendel;  Dot,  Lois  Moran;  Anne,  Madge  Evans;  Mac, 
Ralph  Bellamy;  Judge  Barham,  Frank  Conroy; 
Maizie,  Gwen  Lee;  Mrs.  Trent,  Hedda  Hopper; 
Barbara,  Ruth  Rennick;  Butler,  Richard  Carlyle; 
Wing,  Willie  Fung. 

"WICKED"— Fox.— From  the  story  by  Adela 
Rogers  St.  Johns.  Continuity  by  Kenyon  Nicholson 
and  Kathryn  Scola.  Directed  by  Allan  Dwan.  The 
cast:  Scott  Burrows,  Victor  McLaglen;  Margot  Rande, 
Elissa  Landi;  Tony  Rande,  Theodore  Von  Eltz;  June, 
Una  Merkel;  Blake,  Allan  Dinehart;  Judge  Luther, 
Oscar  Apfel;  Matron,  Blanche  Payson;  Miss  Peck, 
Kathleen  Kerrigan;  Stella,  Eileen  Percy;  Arlene,  Mae 
Busch;  Mrs.  Johnson,  Blanche  Frederici;  Prisoner, 
Lucille  Williams;  Prisoner,  Alice  Lake;  Fanny,  Ruth 
Donnelly;  Mrs.  Luther,  Irene  Rich. 


Just  a  couple  of  the  boys  at  their  bowling,  Maurice  Chevalier,  the  host, 
watches  Charlie  Chaplin  cut  loose  with  a  mean  ball  at  Maurice's  place  at 
Cannes,  on  the  French  Riviera.    Look  at  Charlie's  white  hair.    And  he's 

left-handed 


Like  70  million  oth 


fo 


lers  is  tor 
A  STERILIZED 
B£u€Bhd   Powder  Puff 

WOMEN  entrust  their  precious 
complexions  continuously  to  Blue  Bird 
Powder  Puffs,  because  they  know  that 
they  give  the  greatest  compliment  to  their 
beauty.  There  is  a  reason— The  Blue  Bird 
Powder  Puff  is  made  of  the  softest,  silkiest 
plush  imaginable.  Retains  powder  most 
ably  and  is  sterilized  to  keep  your  skin 
healthier  .  .  .  more  youthful.  A  simple 
yet  a  most  valuable 
Beauty  Aid. 
Change  to  a  Blue 
Bird  Powder  Puff 
now  and  enjoy  the 
difference. 


FREE 

This  booklet  on  BeautySecrets 
written  by  Joan  Foster,  will  be 
sent  to  you,  FREE  when  you 
mail  this  coupon. 


JOAN  FOSTER,  Columbia  Plush  &  Puff  Co. 
857  Broadway,  New  York  City  a-3 

Enclosed  please  find  10c  for  which  you  will  send 
me  a  full  size  sterilized  Blue  Bird  Powder  Puff  and 
a  free  booklet  on  Beauty  Secrets  by  Joan  Foster. 


\o< 


4&- 


Name  (Print)- 
Street 


City,  State 

Kindly  write  here  the  name  of  your  favorite  store 


A  "Location"  Ramble 


Getting  set  up  for  a  difficult 
location  shot.  D.W.Griffith, 
during  the  filming  of  "The 
Struggle,"  decided  to  get  a 
scene  of  his  leading  lady,  Zita 
Johann  (from  the  New  York 
stage),  actually  breasting  a 
rush  hour  crowd  on  a  New 
York  elevated  stairway.  Miss 
Johann,  in  company  with  one 
or  two  other  players,  de- 
scended these  stairs  and  met 
the  tide  of  commuters  flow- 
ing up  them,  with  a  resultant 
natural  scene  in  which  a 
woman  in  a  hurry  is  pressed 
back  by  a  crowd  going  in  the 
opposite  direction.  Griffith, 
megaphone  in  hand,  is  on  the 
stairway  directing  the  setting 
of  a  camera  to  get  the  crowd 
as  it  approached  the  station 


THE  unpolished  wooden  dancing  floor  is  crowded  with 
motley  couples,  young  and  old,  swaying  to  the  strains  of 
"Beautiful  Ohio."  The  rude  wooden  covering  of  the 
dance  pavilion  is  draped  with  gay  red,  white  and  blue 
banners.  Great  trees  surround  it  with  shade,  stirring  sleepily  in 
the  breeze. 

The  hundred  or  more  extra  players  who  take  part  in  this 
"location"  scene  for  D.  W.  Griffith's  latest  picture,  which  right 
now  he  is  calling  "The  Struggle,"  don't  seem  to  mind  the  heat 
of  mid-afternoon.  They  hum  the  familiar  popular  tune  of  pre- 
war days  as  they  weave  in  and  out  in  a  slow  waltz. 

But  their  hats  do  bother  the  girls.  "  Where  did  you  get  those 
hats?"  I  call  to  a  group  resting  between  scenes. 

For  answer,  a  stately  blonde  cocks  her  enormous  rough  straw 
cartwheel  chapeau  at  an  even  more  rakish  angle,  smooths  out 
the  huge  velvet  bow  that  perches  precariously  across  the  wide, 
shallow  crown,  and  calls  back:  "Believe  it  or  not,  I  went  fishing 
in  a  trunk  stored  in  the  old  Edison  Studio  right  here  in  New 
York  and  this  is  what  I  caught." 

And  that's  exactly  where  it  came  from.  The  time  of  the 
scene  is  about  the  year  1911  B.  T.  (Before  Talkies).  Mr.  H. 
M.  K.  Smith,  whose  articles  on  film  costuming  have  appeared  in 
Photoplay,  is  in  charge  of  wardrobe  for  this  picture.  Search- 
ing for  authentic  costumes  of  the  pre-prohibition  period — the 
scene  takes  place  (whisper  it!)  in  an  old-fashioned  Beer  Garden, 
a  real  one  that  dates  back  to  1867 — he  dug  out  some  rare  finds 
from  trunks  and  boxes  stored  away  and  forgotten  in  the  old 
studio. 

A  ghost  walks  across  the  set,  in  broad  daylight— a  girl  who 
so  resembles  the  gamine  Dorothy  Gish  of  those  early  Edison 
films  that  she  is  followed  by  startled  eyes.  Her  discreetly  high- 
necked,  long-sleeved  dimity  dress  is  hugged  close  at  the  waist 
by  a  wide  band  of  embroidery  through 
which  black  velvet  ribbons  are  strung. 
Her  skirt  falls  straight  and  full  to  her 

128 


By   Fran 


ankles.  Placed  carelessly  on  the  back  of  her 
piled-up  black  hair  is  another  version  of  the  straw 
cartwheel,  its  crown  wreathed  in  pink  roses. 
This  was  the  period  of  the  "shirt-waist  suit"  and  there  are 
some  classic  examples  here.  A  pretty  brunette  strolls  toward  us 
in  a  pink  linen  tailored  suit — notched  lapels;  nipped-in  jacket, 
fastened  high  at  the  waist  with  two  white  pearl  buttons;  long, 
gored  skirt  flaring  slightly  as  it  reaches  the  ankles — not  so 
different  from  this  season's  "romantic"  fashions. 

The  men  resemble  nothing  so  much  as  German  vaudeville 
comedians,  with  their  tight  trouser  legs  and  funny  derbies. 

Lights,  cameras,  reflectors  and  all  the  complicated  parapher- 
nalia of  talking  picture-making  have  been  assembled  for  a  new 
scene  while  we've  been  busy  noting  style  details.  The  assistant 
director  summons  couples  and  groups  to  sit  around  small  tables, 
to  eat  limburger  cheese  sandwiches  and  drink  from  huge  steins. 

"/^"\NE  more  rehearsal  before  we  shoot  this  scene,"  orders 
V-J Griffith,  placing  his  chair  next  to  one  of  the  cameras.  The 
huge  circular  microphone  and  sound-gatherer,  which  can  be 
turned  quickly  and  noiselessly  to  catch  every  whisper  of  con- 
versation, is  in  readiness  for  the  first  take. 

In  this  scene,  the  audience  will  listen  in  on  the  various  con- 
versations at  the  different  tables,  catching  a  few  phrases  here,  a 
snatch  of  humor  there — about  politics,  women's  fashions  and, 
finally,  the  movies.  A  group  of  five  or  six  sit  at  a  front  table. 
A  girl  in  the  group  asks:  "Have  you  seen  the  new  Biograph 
Girl?     They  say  her  name  is  Mary  Packard." 

"Oh,  no,"  another  girl  answers.  "It's  Mary  Swickard,  or 
something  like  that." 

A  gay  young  sheik  (only  they  didn't  call  them  that  then)  at 
the  next  table  jumps  up.  "My  brother  works  in  a  the-a-ter 
and  he  says  her  name  is  Marie  Picard,"  he  informs  them. 
"Anyhow,  she  won't  amount  to  anything  in  movies." 

But  the  first  staunch  supporter  insists  that  the  little  Biograph 

Girl  is  going  to  be  a  winner,  and  it  seems  to  her  on  second 

thought,  that  the  name  isn't   "Pack- 

J£  •     r  ard"  but  "Pickford"!     And  that  she 

CCS      A  I S  ft  gets  ten  dollars  a  day! 


As  told  to 

Princess  rat 

10,000  Men 


// 


omen  use 


// 


oo  /Much  i\ouge 


The  men,  poor  dears,  are  not 
quite  correct.  They  judge  by  ap= 
pearances  solely.  What  they 
really  protest  is  the  "painted 
look" — and  "too  much  rouge" 
is  not  really  a  question  of  quan* 
tity.  It  is  a  matter  of  kind;  for 
even  the  tiniest  bit  of  usual  rouge 
does  look  unreal. 


Women  have  startling  proof  of  difference  in  rouges  once 
they  try  Princess  Pat.  Have  you  sometimes  watched  fleecy 
clouds  at  sunset  shade  from  deepest  rose  to  faintest  pink, 
every  tone  pure  and  luminous?  So  it  is  with  Princess  Pat 
rouge.  Every  tone  is  pure  and  luminous,  seeming  to  lie 
beneath  the  skin  and  not  upon  it.  You  obtain  more,  or 
less,  color  by  using  freely  or  sparingly.  But  there  is  never 
a  question  of  too  much,  never  the  unlovely  "painted  look" 
to  which  men  object. 

Purity,  delicacy,  the  most  costly  color  tints,  and  a  secret  formula  com- 
bine to  make  Princess  Pat  the  most  natural  rouge  in  the  world.  And 
whether  blonde  or  brunette,  you  can  use  any  and  all  of  the  six  Princess 
Pat  shades  with  perfect  effect  —  instead  of  being  limited  to  one  as 
with  usual  rouges. 

Velvet  Your  Skin  with  Princess  Pat  Almond  Base  Powder  Vel- 
vet is  just  the  word;  for  the  soft,  soothing  almond  base  imparts  to 
Princess  Pat  an  entirely  new  "feel,"  makes  its  application  a  veritable 
caress.  Most  powders  contain  starch  as  a  base — hence  their  drying 
effect.  The  almond  in  Princess  Pat  definitely  helps  the  skin,  assists  it 
to  remain  pliant  and  fine  of  texture.  And  there  has  never  been  a  powder 
to  go  on  so  smoothly,  or  cling  so  long — never  because  only  in  Princess 
Pat  do  you  find  the  soft,  naturally  adherent  almond  base — instead 
of  starch. 

Princess  Pat  almond  base  face  powder  now  comes  in  two  weights. 
Medium  weight  in  the  familiar  oblong  box — lighter  weight  in  the 


Princess  E\t 


CHICAGO,  U.S.A.  (II?  CANADA,  93  CHT7BCB  f*T  ,  TORONTO) 


new  round  box.  It  has  been  possible  because  of  the  almond  base  to 
make  the  lighter  weight  powder  just  as  clinging  as  the  medium. 

Wonderful  New  Co/or  for  dps  Just  what  you've  wanted  —  lip 
rouge  that  colors  the  visible  part  of  the  lips  and  also  adheres  to  and 
colors  the  inside,  moist  surface.  Thus,  parted  lips  show  beautiful  color 
all  the  way  back — no  unlovely  "rim"  of  color  as  with  usual  lipsticks. 

Try  the  Six  Aids-to-Beauty  in  Princess  Pat  Week  End  Set  This 
is  really  an  "acquaintance"  set — enough  of  each  preparation  for  a 
thorough  trial — enough  for  two  weeks.  And  the  beauty  book  sent  with 
set  contains  information  on  skin  care  of  real  value — besides  artful 
secrets  of  make-up  which  vastly  enhance  results  from  rouge,  powder 
and  lip  rouge.  You  will  be  delighted  with  the  set. 

set  this  Week  End  Set 

—SPECIAL 

The  very  popular  Princess  Pat  Week  End  Set  for 
this  COUPON  and  25c  icoin).  Easily  a  month's 
supply  of  almond  base  powder  and  FIVE  other 
delightful  Princess  Pal  preparations.  Beautifully 
decorated  boudoir  box. 


PRINCESS  PAT.  2709  S.  Wells  St..  Chicago. 
Dept.  156-A.      Enclosed  find  25c  for  which  send 
me  the  Princess  Pat  Week  End  Set. 

Name  (print) 

Street 

City  and  State 


Have  yon  tried  Camels? 


THE  steady  increase  in  the  sales  of  Camel 
cigarettes  proves    one   fact    beyond   a 
doubt. 

If  you  try  Camels,  the  odds  are  very 
much  against  your  ever  going  back  to  your 
old  brand. 

So  great  is  the  contrast  between  the  de- 
lights of  perfectly  conditioned  Camels  fresh 
from  the  protection  of  the  new  Humidor 
Pack  and  the  harsh,  hot  smoke  from  stale 
dried-out  cigarettes,  that  your  decision  will 
be  immediate. 

The  quality  is  there  in  the  first  place,  for 
Camels  are  a  blend  of  choice  Turkish  and 
mild  Domestic  tobaccos. 

In  factory- prime  condition,  with  their 
rare  flavor  and  their  natural  moisture  still 
intact,  they  are  a  joy  to  the  smoker. 


Now  this  flavor  is  air-sealed-in  by  an  outer 
wrapping  of  moisture-proof  Cellophane,  so 
that  no  matter  where  you  buy  Camels,  in 
any  land,  in  any  climate,  you  are  always 
certain  to  get  fresh  cigarettes  in  factory- 
prime  condition. 

And  there  are  other  advantages  as  well. 
For  the  Humidor  Pack  also  protects  the 
cigarettes  within  from  dust  and  germs  and 
weather  conditions. 

Start  the  day  on  Camels.  See  how  much 
milder  they  are,  how  much  more  flavorful 
they  are,  how  cool  they  are  to  the  throat. 

No  peppery  dust  to  irritate  delicate 
membrane.  No  harsh,  hot  smoke  from 
dried -out  tobacco  to  burn  the  tongue  or 
sear  the  throat. 

Switch  to  Camels  for  a  day,  then  leave 
them  —  if  you  can. 


Tune  in  CAMEL  QUARTER  HOUR  featuring  Morton  Downey  and  Tony  Wons 
Columbia  Broadcasting  System  —  every  night  except  Sunday 


Camels  * 


Mild 


NO     CIGARETTY     AFTER-TASTE 


//  is  the  mark  of  a  considerate  hostess, 
by  means  of  the  Humidor  Pack,  to 
"Serve  a  fresh  cigarette."  Buy  Camels 
by  the  carton  —  this  cigarette  will  re- 
main fresh  in  your  home  and  office 

©  1931,  R.  J .  Reynolds  Tobacco  Company,  Winslon-Salem,  N.  C. 


:laire 


Why  Women 
d  Crazy  About 
.ARK  GABLE! 


J 


^ 


on't  Go  Platinum 
Blonde  Yet!  Wait! 


THE  ONE  AND  ONLY 
GRETA  GARBO  IN  THE 
ARMS  OF  FASCINATING 
CLARK  GABLE!  WHAT 
A  PAIR  OF  SCREEN 
LOVERS    THEY    MAKE! 


magnificently   thrilling   in 

David  Graham  Phillips  classic  love  story — 

SUSAN  LENOX 


Sold  by  her  father,  she  runs  away. 


(HER  FALL  AND  RISE) 
with  an  alUstar  cast  including 

Jean  HERSHOLT 
John  MILJAN 
A  ROBERT  Z.  LEONARD  Production 


CLARK  GABLE 


The  circus  owner  shows  his  true  colors ! 


Get  ready  for  the  supreme,  exotic  thrill  of  your  picture-going 
days!  Here  truly  is  gorgeous  Greta  Garbo  in  the  picture  that 
will  make  you  forget  all  her  previous  triumphs.  Come  and 
be  thrilled! 


METRO-GOLDWYN-idAYER 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


C<? 


Pink  Tooth  Brush"— I  really  can't  laugh  that  off! 


'T"VNK" — on  your  tooth  brush — seemingly 
.[innocent,  isn't  it?  Yet  "pink  tooth  brush" 
is  an  indication  of  a  gum  condition  which 
may  cause  you  no  end  of  trouble  before  you're 
through  with  it! 

It  means  that  your  gums  are  lazy,  flabby, 
and  becoming  more  and  more  tender  with 
every  day.  You've  eaten  soft  foods  ever  since 
you  ate  anything  at  all.  And  your  gums,  lack- 
ing the  exercise  that  is  absolutely  necessary 
to  their  health,  have  gradually  lost  the  vigor- 
ous hardness  they  had  when  you  were  a  child. 
That's  why  they  tend  to  bleed  —  that's  why 
you  had  better  do  something  at  once  about 
this  "pink  tooth  brush"  business! 

If  you  don't,  your  teeth  are  going  to  look 
dull  and  grayish.  But  far  more  serious  than 
the  good-looks  of  your  teeth  is  any  one  of  a 
number  of  gum  troubles  that  "pink  tooth 
brush"  makes  you  susceptible  to.  Gingivitis, 
for  instance.  Or  Vincent's  disease.  And  you 
wouldn't  ever  choose  to  have  pyorrhea,  would 
you? — though  that's  far  more  rare. 

If  you  ignore  "pink  tooth  brush",  you  may 
even  be  risking  the  soundness  of  good  teeth 
through  infection  at  the  roots! 

To  check  "pink  tooth  brush"  isn't  com- 
plicated or  expensive.  All  you  have  to  do  is 
to  get  a  tube  or  two  of  Ipana  Tooth  Paste. 
Brush  your  teeth  with  it  in  the  usual  way. 
Then  put  a  little  extra  Ipana  on  your  brush 
or  finger-tip,  and  lightly  massage  it  into  those 
inactive,  touchy  gums  of  yours. 

You'll  like  the  way  it  makes  your  gums 
feel,  and  the  way  it  brings  back  almost  at 
once  a  nice  sparkle  to  your  teeth.  Keep  on 
using  it  —  regularly — with  massage — and  you 
won't  be  bothered  for  long  with  "pink  tooth 
brush"!  Ask  your  dentist  about  Ipana  and 
massage!  He'll  explain  uhy  it  checks  "pink 
tooth  brush"  so  summarily! 


IDclIlcl    tooth  paste 


BRISTOL-MYERS  CO.,  Dept.  I-l  1 I 
73  West  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Kindly  send  me  a  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH 
PASTE.  Enclosed  is  a  two-cent  stamp  to  cover  partly 
the  cost  of  packing  and  mailing. 

Name 

Street 

City State 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


"24  HOURS 


ncis, 


with 
Clive  Brook,  Kav  Fra 
Miriam  Hopkins,  Reg.s  To7mey 
Based  upon  the  novel  bv 
Louis  Bromfield      " 
Dnected  by  Marion  Gering 


"THE  ROAD 
TO  RENO" 


S> 


*► 


"THE  MAD 
PARADE" 

A  WILLIAM  BEAUDINE 

Production  with 
•Evelyn  Brent,  Irene  Rich 
Louise  Fazenda, 
Lilyan  Tashman 


cm  tiwieA 


LAST  ALL  THE  YEAR 'ROUND! 


What  if  vacation  days  are  over?  There  are 
plenty  of  good  times  to  be  had!  And  you  don't 
have  to  leave  town  for  them  either!  They're 
at  the  nearest  theatre  to  you  that  plays  Para- 
mount Pictures  regularly  and  often.  You  get 
great  entertainment— change,  adventure,  rest, 
relaxation— what  we  all  of  us  need,  all  the  time ! 


So  don't  lose  that  holiday  feeling!  Have  your 
good  times  all  the  year  'round.  And  when 
you  go,  make  it  a  family  affair!  There  are 
Paramount  Pictures  for  all  — young  and  old 
alike  — and  they  were  never  better  than  now! 
Watch  for  your  theatre  announcements.  "If  it's 
a  Paramount  Picture,  it's  the  best  show  in  town!" 


PARAMOUNT  PUBLIX  CORPORATION.  ADOLPH  ZUKOR. 


PRES..  PARAMOUNT  BLDG  .  NEW  YORK 


OTO 


The  World's  Leading  Motion   Picture  Publication 


Vol.  XL  No.  6 


JAMES  R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publisher 


November,  1931 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  for 
the   best   picture   of  the   year 

1920  1923  1926 

"HUMOR-         "The  "BEAU 

ESQUE"    COVERED         GESTE" 

WAGON" 

1921  1924  1927 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 

1922  1925  1928 

"ROBIN      "THE  BIG  "FOUR 

HOOD"        PARADE"  SONS" 

1929 

"DISRAELI" 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets  ....       6 

Hollywood  Menus 13 

Friendly  Advice  on  Girls' 

Problems 18 

Questions  and  Answers      ...  80 

Screen  Memories  from  Photoplay  110 

Addresses  of  the  Stars    .      ...  125 

Casts  of  Current  Photoplays       .      .  126 


High-Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots James  R.  Quirk  27 

The  Secret  Wedding  of  Mary  Astor      ....            Ruth  Biert  28 

Don't  Go  Platinum  Yet! MatAllehton  30 

On  "The  Cuban"  Set 32 

Must  They  Be  Selfish  to  Win  Screen  Fame?    .         .         Frances  Denton  36 

Screen  Clothes  That  Will  Start  Something 38 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 44 

The  Extra-Private  Life  of  Marlene  Dietrich         .        .        Leonard  Hall  48 

Seymour — Photoplay's  Style  Authority 59 

Why  Women  Go  Crazy  About  Clark  Gable         .         .      James  R.  Quirk  67 

The  Unknown  Hollywood  I  Know — Part  Two             Kathebdje  Albert  68 

"I  Cannot  Write  That  Story— But  I  Can  Unmask  Jean  Harlow!" 

Ruth  Leiber  70 

Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 8 

The  Shadow  Stage 50 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 108 

Personalities 

Jimmie  Hates  Sandwiches Jeanne  North  34 

So  They  Were  Married Rilla  Page  Palmborg  42 

He  Is  The  Real  Thing! Harry  Lang  57 

How  Sally  Got  "The  Brat" Katherine  Albert  58 

The  Best  Showman  in  Town               Ruth  Biery  72 

More  Radio  Stars  Go  Movie 74 

Lilyan  Tashman  and  Kay  Francis 76 

Short  Stories 

Bi"  Shot           .....•••           Charles  J.  McGuirk  54 


Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 
Editorial  Offices,  221  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City  Publishing  Office,  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

The  International  News  Company,  Ltd.,  Distributing  Agents,  5  Bream's  Building,  London,  England 

James  R.  Quirk,  President  Robert  M.  Eastman,  Vice-President  Kathryn  Dougherty.  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  $2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba;  S3.50  Canada;  $3.50  for  foreign  countries.    Remittances 

should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    Caution— Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24.  1912,  at  the  Postoffice  at  Chicago,  111.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879. 

Copyright,  1931,  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company,  Chicago 


Brickbats  £f  Bouquets 


You    Fans    Are    the 
Real    Critics 


PHOTOPLAY    Gives    Twenty-Five, 

Ten  and  Five  Dollar  Prizes  for  the 

Best    Letters 


Come  on  in  and  speak  your  mind!  Don't  write  more 
than  200  words,  and  if  you  are  not  willing  to  have  your 
name  and  city  of  residence  attached,  please  don't 
write.  Address  Brickbats  &  Bouquets,  PHOTOPLAY, 
221  West  57th  Street,  New  York  City.  We  reserve  the 
right  to  cut  letters  to  suit  our  space  limitations 


The  $25  Letter 

TO  say  that  the  "Public"  demands  or  re- 
jects a  certain  type  of  picture  is  as  silly 
as  to  assert  that  the  Public  has  blue  eyes ! 

Once  in  a  while  a  masterpiece  comes  along 
— like  "Street  Scene,"  like  "Min  and  Bill," 
or  "Skippy" — and  we  all  recognize  it. 
Usually  there  is  a  multiplicity  of  "Publics," 
each  with  its  legitimate  taste  to  be  satisfied. 
When  the  producers  have  learned  that 
they  must  give  us  an  adequate  variety  of 
stars  and  stories,  and  when  we  have  learned 
to  use  the  more  carefully  considered  reviews 
and  criticisms  as  our  entertainment  guides, 
then  the  mythical  Public  with  its  legendary 
preferences  can  fade  into  limbo. 

J.  L.  Huey, 
Berkeley,  Calif. 

The  $10  Letter 

I'M  raising  a  younger  brother,  and  being 
only   twenty   myself,   I    am   often   at   my 
wits  end  to  impress  certain  things  upon  him. 

It's  hard  for  me  to  point  out  the  pitfalls 
that  he  should  guard  against,  and  when  I  do 
point  them  out,  well,  it  seems  that  only  see- 
ing is  believing. 

Happily,  I  hit  upon  a  scene  in  a  recent 
picture  that  illustrated  something  I  was  try- 
ing to  impress  on  him,  so  I  took  Bub  to  see 
the  movie. 

After  the  show  I  asked  if  he  still  thought 
gangsters  were  brave  fellows,  who  led  won- 
derful, exciting  lives.  (Jack  Holt,  one  of 
the  boy's  favorites,  playing  a  gangster,  was 
killed  at  the  end  of  the  picture.) 

Bub  slowly  shook  his  head  and  looking 
me  straight  in  the  face  replied: 

"You  were  right,  Lee.  That  would  be 
no  position  for  a  Williams  to  find  himself 
in." 

This  is  just  one  instance  in  which  I  have 
received  aid  from  movies  that  have  a  good 
moral. 

M.  Leroy  Williams, 

East  Moline,  111. 


Th< 


The  folks  are  writing 
in  madly  about  this 
boy!  Clark  Gable  and 
Madge  Evans  talk  it 
over  in  "Sporting 
Blood" 


Letter 


T'LL  never  again  lament  spending  money 
-*-  for  movies.  If  you  peruse  the  local  Brad- 
street  you'll  discover  I'm  only  a  business 
man  with  a  weakness  for  golf.  I  also  pos- 
sess a  wife  who  is  a  darling,  but  who  never 
cared  much  for  golf.  The  last  few  months, 
however,  whenever  I  was  dragged  to  a 
movie,  it  seemed  that  Bobby  Jones  or  some- 
one was  giving  a  golf  lesson. 

To  make  a  long  story  short,  my  wife's  in- 
terest was  aroused  in  spite  of  herself,  and 
now  I  get  all  the  golf  sympathy  I  need ! 
Richard  Matthews, 

Seattle,  Wash. 


Right,  Mrs.  Cloyd! 

COME  folks  condemn  the  Sunday  shows, 
^  but  I  would  rather  have  my  children  see 
a   good,   clean    show   on   Sunday   afternoon 


THE  Gable  deluge  continues,  with 
the  nosegays  for  Clark  far  out- 
numbering the  thwacks.  No 
doubt  that  the  big  boy  is  the  rampaging 
rage  of  the  month,  with  high  words  of 
praise  for  his  labors  in  "Sporting  Blood." 
Now  the  folks  are  yelling  for  "Susan 
Lenox,"   with    Garbo   and    Gable   both! 

Sylvia  Sidney  and  James  Cagney  also 
drew  a  few  bushels  of  nice  messages.  Of 
the  picture  crop,  "Street  Scene"  is  being 
heavily  praised,  and  so  are  "Guilty 
Hands"  and  "The  Star  Witness."  "An 
American  Tragedy"  continues  to  pro- 
voke vigorous  discussion,  both  pro  and 
con,  with  the  pro's  outnumbering  the 
con's. 

An  exciting  month — and  the  pictures' 
fiscal  year  is  just  beginning.  Looks  like 
a  piping  hot  fall  in  the  talkie  line! 

Take  your  pens  in  hand! 


than  to  run  the  streets  or  go  to  some  ques- 
tionable place  of  amusement. 

Gladys  E.  Cloyd, 
Spokane,  Wash. 

Clark  Gable 

f~^  LARK  GABLE  is  the  most  fascinating 
^-^    actor  since  Valentino. 

Anne  Heeney, 
Gloucester,  Mass. 

Why  all  this  excitement  over  Clark  Gable? 
He  seems  to  me  to  be  just  an  ordinary  look- 
ing boy  with  a  harsh,  unmusical  voice  and 
very  limited  acting  ability.  I  hope  the  girls 
don't  boost  him  too  high  and  then  let  him 
down  with  a  dull  thud.  It's  a  tragic  thing 
to  be  one  of  these  overnight  movie  stars. 
Here  today  and  goodness  knows  where  to- 
morrow. 

Caroline  Foreman, 

St.  Louis,  Mo. 

"Yancey"  Dix 

T)  ICHARD  DIX  is  worth  more  to  the 
-*-*■  screen  than  all  the  new  finds.  He  was 
magnificent  in  "Cimarron"  and  "Donovan's 
Kid." 

He  should  be  given  a  little  of  the  publicity 

given  Clark  Gable,  who  could  not  survive 

without    it,    and    who    hasn't    one-half    the 

looks,  talent,  or  ingratiating  manner  of  Dix. 

Jane  Austin, 

Detroit,  Mich. 


Listen  to  This! 

WHY  all  this  raving  about  Garbo?     Per- 
sonally,   I    would    rather    have   Marie 
Dressier. 

And  why  does  every  Hollywood  star  think 
she's  got  to  be  a  blonde?  Give  us  some 
real  brunettes! 

Hazel  Langdon, 
Sandwich,  Mass. 

What  a  picture!    What  a  laugh!    I  just 
saw    Marie    Dressier   and    Polly   Moran    in 
"Politics."    I  have  been  a  Dressier  fan  for 
some  time  but  Marie's  latest  is  the  best  yet. 
Fred  K.  Massey, 
Wilmington,  Del. 
I  please  :  urn  to  page  14] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


**    ■ 


fake  the  familij  to  see'-' 

PENROD 


^itftLEON 
JANNEY 

Junior  Coughlan 

MATT  MOORE     :     DOROTHV 

PETERSON       :       ZASU  PITTS 

and  a  host  of  kids 

Screen    play    and    dialogue    by 
Waldcmar   Young 

Directed   by 
WILLIAM    BEAUDINE 


An  epic  of  youth  which  will  fasci- 
nate father  and  mother,  and  delight 
the  kids  . . .  The  inimitable  Penrod 
proves  that  boys  will  be  boys  .  .  . 
The  more  children  you  take  to  see 
this  picture  the  greater  will  be 
your  pleasure  —  and  theirs  .  .  . 
Find  out  when  Penrod  and  Sam 
are  coming  to  town... See  them!... 
You'll  have  the  time  of  your  life. 

A    BOOTH    TARKINGTON 

comedy  drama  of  immortal  youth 

Vitaphone**  is  the  registerei!  trademark  of  The  Vita  phone  Corporation 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  &VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


' 

Hi   1'    ,  rl| 

w  # 

Brief  Reviews  of 

Current  Pictures 

Photoplays  not  otherwise  designated  are  AH  Talkie 


■^■Indicates  that  photoplay  was  named  as  one 
of  the  best  upon  its  month  of  review 


AFFAIRS     OF     ANNABELLE,     THE— Fox  — 

Jcanette  MacDonald  and  Victor  McLaglen  in  a  laugh- 
worthy  farce.     {July) 

AGE  FOR  LOVE,  THE— Caddo.— Billie  Dove  is 
good  but  the  old  familiar  story  doesn't  click.     (Oct.) 

•     ALEXANDER  HAMILTON  —  Warners- 
George  Arliss,   need   we  say   more?     Another 
superb  characterization  of  an  historic  figure.  (Aug.) 

ALIAS  THE  BAD  MAN— Tiffany  Prod.— You 
probably  won't  like  this  even  if  you're  a  Western  fan. 
Ken  Maynard  is  okay — but  you  simply  don't  believe 
that  story.     (Sept.) 

ALWAYS  GOODBYE— Fox—  Elissa  Landi  gives 
a  charming  performance  in  a  rather  ordinary  piece. 
Lewis  Stone  and  Paul  Cavanagh  support  her.  See  la 
Landi.     (July) 

•  AMERICAN  TRAGEDY,  AN— Paramount- 
Dreiser's  great  tragedy  becomes  one  of  the 
month's  best  pictures.  Phillips  Holmes  and  Sylvia 
Sidney  head  a  glorious  cast.  Not  for  the  children. 
(Aug.) 

BACHELOR  APARTMENT— Radio  Pictures.— 
The  superb  direction  and  acting  of  Lowell  Sherman 
make  this  sophisticated  story  interesting  from  start  to 
finish.  Mae  Murray  returns  as  a  modern  vamp,  a 
restless  married  woman.    Splendid  cast.    (May) 

•  BAD  GIRL — Fox. — You'll  laugh  and  cry  over 
this,  made  from  the  novel  of  the  same  name. 
Sally  Eilers  is  all  the  girls  who  live  next  door. 
That  new  kid,  James  Dunn,  bears  watching.  Don't 
miss  this  one.     (Sept.) 

BAD  SISTER— Universal.— Sidney  Fox,  talented 
little  newcomer,  plays  the  title  role  in  this  entirely 
natural  story  based  on  Booth  Tarkington's  "The 
Flirt."    Conrad  Nagel  is  the  hero.    (May) 

•  BARGAIN,  THE— First  National— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Fame.")  Beautifully  and 
humanly  told  story  of  everyday  people.  Nothing 
spectacular,  but  full  of  charm.  Doris  Kenyon  heads 
a  perfect  cast.     (June) 

BEYOND  VICTORY— RKO-Pathe.— Poor  war 
film,  starring  Bill  Boyd.  ZaSu  Pitts.  Lew  Cody  and 
Jimmy  Gleason  make  the  effort  but  can't  do  much  for 
this  one.      (May) 

BIG  BUSINESS  GIRL— First  National.— Lively 
comedy  of  1931  styles  in  business  and  love.  Plenty  of 
laughs,  some  thrills,  Ricardo  Cortez,  Frank  Albertson 
and  Loretta  Young  in  pretty  clothes.  A  good  movie. 
(May) 

BLACK  CAMEL,  THE— Fox— Here's  your  old 
pal  Charlie  Chan  (sure,  it's  only  Warner  Oland)  un- 
raveling the  mystery  of  a  movie  star's  murder  in 
Honolulu.  Great  stuff  for  the  mystery-minded  and 
other  folks,  too.     (Sept.) 

BORN  TO  LOVE— RKO-Pathe.— Ancient  plot 
of  the  war  nurse.  Two  officers  and  whose-baby-is-it 
fails  to  be  highly  entertaining  in  spite  of  the  efforts 
of  Constance  Bennett.     (June) 

•  BOUGHT— Warners.— Connie  Bennett  and 
her  father,  Richard,  rip  off  a  real  picture. 
Elegant  acting,  clothes  you'll  be  ca-razy  for,  and  a 
vivid,  human  story.  Ben  Lyon  does  the  best  work 
of  his  career.     (Sept.) 

BRANDED — Columbia. — Good  scenery,  good 
riding,  good  ol'  Buck  Jones.  But  let's  have  less  talk 
and  more  action  in  Westerns.     (Oct.) 

BRAT,  THE— Fox.— Remember  Sally  O'Neil? 
What  a  comeback  the  kid  stages  in  this  old  Maude 
Fulton  comedy-drama.  And  what  a  rough  and 
tumble  fight  she  and  Virginia  Cherrill  have!     (Sept.) 

BROAD  MINDED— First  National.— Joe  E. 
Brown  tries  hard  to  bring  a  lot  of  moribund  jokes  and 
gags  back  to  life,  but  there's  scarcely  a  giggle.   (June) 

8 


•     BUSINESS    AND    PLEASURE— Fox.— Will 
Rogers  is  a  riot.     (Oct.) 

CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  dull  story 
about  a  Robin-Hoodish  captain  whose  lawless  deeds 
are  all  for  a  good  end.  Victor  Varconi  and  Fay  Wray. 
(July) 

CAUGHT — Paramount. — The  plot  is  pretty  silly. 
Boy  (Dick  Arlen)  finds  mother  (Louise  Dresser)  is 
outlaw  he  was  sent  out  to  get — but  Louise  is  worth 
the  admission.     (Sept.) 

CAUGHT  PLASTERED— Radio  Pictures.— (Re- 
viewed under  the  title  "Full  of  Notions.") — If  you 
like  Wheeler  and  Woolsey,  don't  let  this  get  by  you, 
for  it's  one  of  their  best  comedies  to  date.     (Sept.) 

CHANCES— First  National.— Young  Doug's  first 
starring  picture  is  a  war  thriller.  The  lad  is  good 
but  the  story  is  so-so.     (July) 


Fashion  Takes 
a  Holiday! 

And  Seymour  has  filled  your  fash' 
ion  calendar  for  you  in  the  next 
issue  of  Photoplay.  There  isn't 
a  holiday  date  for  which  he  hasn't 
found  a  good  screen  style  sugges' 
tion — smart  tips  you  won't  want 
to  miss. 

What's  New? 

Just  turn  to  the  Seymour  Fashion 
Section  in  the 

December 

Photoplay 

And  you'll  soon  find  out  whether 
the  Eugenie  hat  is  really  out — 
what  your  favorite  star  will  be 
wearing  this  winter  and  how  you 
can  adapt  screen  styles  to  your 
own  type  and  taste. 


•  CITY  STREETS  —  Paramount.  —  Absorbing, 
fast-moving  gang  melodrama,  well  directed. 
Gary  Cooper  and  Sylvia  Sidney  (from  the  New  York 
stage)  give  grand  performances.  Don't  miss  it.  (June) 

CLEARING  THE  RANGE— Allied.— Hoot  Gib- 
son  and  the  wife,  Sally  Eilers,  in  a  fine  Western  with 
thrills,  laughs  and  plenty  of  action.     (June) 

COMMON  LAW,  THE— RKO-Pathe.— A  poor 
adaptation  of  an  old  favorite  but  Constance  Bennett 
is  worth  seeing.     Sophisticated  fare.  (Aug.) 

COMRADES  OF  1918— Forenfilms'— Gruesome, 
harrowing  German  talkie  follows  the  fortunes  of  four 
young  Teuton  soldiers  in  the  last  year  of  the  late  war. 
Don't  take  the  children.    (May) 

CONFESSIONS  OF  A  CO-ED— Paramount.— 
Not  a  very  convincing  piece  with  Sylvia  Sidney, 
Phillips  Holmes  and  Norman  Foster.  College 
atmosphere.     (Aug.) 


•  DADDY  LONG  LEGS— Fox.— The  beloved 
classic  with  Janet  Gaynor  in  a  role  just  suited 
to  her  but  just  a  little  too  saccharine.  Warner  Baxtei 
as  the  bachelor.     Take  the  family.     (July) 

DAUGHTER  OF  THE  DRAGON— Paramount 

— Sessue  Hayakawa  and  Anna  May  Wong  in  at 
Oriental  mystery.  Recommended  if  you  like  youl 
murders  sinister.     (Oct.) 

DAYBREAK— M-G-M.— The  charming  perform, 
ances  of  Helen  Chandler  and  Ramon  Novarro,  as  th( 
student  prince,  make  this  romantic  and  wistful  lov( 
story  well  worth  seeing.     (June) 

DER  GROSSE  TENOR— UFA.— A  slow  moving 
all-German  talkie  with  Emil  Jannings  in  a  typica 
Jannings  role.     A  song  or  two.     (Aug.) 

•  DIRIGIBLE— Columbia.— Thrilling  melo- 
drama of  adventure  at  the  South  Pole.  Th( 
Navy  helped  make  it  and  the  airplane  and  dirigible 
shots  leave  you  breathless.  Ralph  Graves,  Jack  Holl 
and  Fay  Wray  take  high  honors.    (May) 

•  DISHONORED— Paramount.— Marlen* 
Dietrich  exciting  as  an  Austrian  spy  in  a  tensf 
story,  splendidly  directed.  Victor  McLaglen  great  a: 
the  Russian  officer.     (May) 

DUDE  RANCH— Paramount.— Jack  Oakie  woos 
and  wins  June  Collyer  in  this  hilarious  comedy  on  £ 
dude  ranch,  locale  of  many  complications.  Not  a  dul 
moment.     (June) 

EAST  OF  BORNEO— Universal.— The  title  tell; 
the  story.  Real  Borneo  scenery,  excellent  studic 
"fakes."  Charles  Bickford  and  Rose  Hobart  mak< 
it  interesting  enough.     (Sept.) 

ENEMIES  OF  THE  LAW— Regal  Prod.— Unlesi 
you  want  to  see  Lou  Tellegen's  brand  new  face-lift 
you  can  check  this  off  your  list.  Not  even  Mars 
Nolan's  beauty  compensates  for  that  old  formuU 
877 — a  gangster  story.     (Sept.) 

EVERYTHING'S  ROSIE—  Radio  Pictures.— On< 
of  the  talkiest  talkies  yet  released.    (July) 

EX-BAD    BOY— Universal.— If    you    like    gag. 

farce,  you'll  get  a  kick  out  of  this.  Robert  Armstronj 
and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  comedy  acting.     (Aug.) 

EXPENSIVE  WOMEN— Warners.— A  pretty  un- 
happy return  to  the  screen  for  Dolores  Costello.  Th< 
less  said  about  it  the  better.     (Aug.) 

EXPRESS  13— UFA.— A  thrilling  German. 
dialogue  film  that  makes  you  wish  you'd  paid  more 
attention  to  your  German  teacher.     (Oct.) 

FANNY  FOLEY  HERSELF— Radio  Pictures.— 
Edna  May  Oliver's  first  starring  film.  You'll  laugl 
and — what's  more — you'll  cry.  In  Technicolor.  Se< 
it.     (Oct.) 

FIGHTING  SHERIFF,  THE  —  Columbia.  — 
Recommended  for  dyed-in-the-wool  Western  fans, 
Others  will  find  it  just  average  film  fare.  Buck 
Jones  is  the  hero.     (Sept.) 

FINGER  POINTS,  THE— First  National.— Dick 
Barthelmess  as  a  reporter  for  one  of  Chicago's  biggest 
newspapers,  gets  in  with  gangsters.  An  intensely 
absorbing  story.  Fay  Wray  and  Regis  Toomey  give 
splendid  support.     (May) 

FIRST  AID — Sono  Art. — In  which  a  lot  of  people 
— Grant  Withers,  Marjorie  Beebe  and  Wheeler  Oak- 
man — do  a  lot  of  unconvincing  things  unconvinc- 
ingly.     (Sept.) 

FIVE  AND  TEN — M-G-M. — Marion  Davies 
with  a  splendid  cast.  Adapted  from  the  Fannie 
Hurst  story — jerky  in  spots.     (Aug.) 

•     FIVE  STAR  FINAL— First  National.— Rush 
to  the   nearest   theater.        You   mustn't   miss 
this    exciting    story    of    tabloid    newspaper    sensa- 
tionalism.     Eddie   Robinson   is  superb.     (Sept.) 
[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  10  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


6 Sldt&L. 


didn't  believe  in  marriage  but  she  believed  in 
i.'  Reckless,  seeking  the  flower  of  life  in  barren 
lis.  A  girl  and  a  boy,  rival  reporters  — till  the  girl 
aken  for  a  ride  — a  dynamic  modern  drama  with 
remendous  climax.  With  lovely  Linda  Watkins 
i  the  brilliant  young  star,  James  Dunn,  who 
ently  made  a  sensational  picture  debut  in  the 
st  popular  picture  of  the  year,  Bad  Girl. 


THE 

CISCO  KID 

O.  Henry's  lovable  bandit  at  his  old 
tricks  again— pursued  and  thwarted 
by  the  happy  warrior  of  the  law, 
Sergeant  Micky  Dunn.  A  picture  as 
exciting  and  romantic  as  that  well- 
remembered  FOX  epic,  In  Old 
Arizona  —  the  first  all-talking  out- 
door sound  picture  ever  made.  In 
The  Cisco  Kid, Warner  Baxter  and 
Edmund  Lowe  are  re-united  in  a  wild, 
free  action-thriller  of  the  outdoors 
—  another  screen    masterpiece    by 

R#X 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8  ] 


FLOOD,  THE— Columbia.— A  weak,  poorly 
directed  story  which  the  good  acting  of  Eleanor 
Boardman  and  Monte  Blue  cannot  save.     (July) 

•  FORBIDDEN  ADVENTURE— (Also  re- 
leased as  Newly  Rich) — Paramount. — An 
entertaining  picture  for  kids  and  grown-ups.  Jackie 
Searl  and  Mitzi  Green  in  some  swell  acting.  Don't 
miss  it.     (Aug.) 

•  FREE  SOUL,  A— M-G-M  —  Norma  Shearer 
and  Lionel  Barrymore  in  a  picture  that  will 
hold  you.  but  in  plot  and  treatment  it's  for  grown-ups 
only.     (July) 

FRIENDS  AND  LOVERS— Radio  Pictures.— 
Adolphe  Menjou,  Eric  Von  Stroheim  and  Lily 
Damita  get  tangled  up  in  an  involved  yarn  that  tries 
to  be  too  sophisticated.     (Oct.) 

•  FRONT  PAGE,  THE— United  Artists- 
Whirlwind  newspaper  talkie,  full  of  thrills, 
laughs  and  sobs.  You've  simply  got  to  see  it.  Adolphe 
Menjou  great  as  the  managing  editor.     (May) 

GAY  DIPLOMAT,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Ivan 

Lebedeff  intrigues  the  ladies  (Betty  Compson  and 
Genevieve  Tobin)  in  this  story  of  Balkan  intrigue. 
(Oct.) 

•     GIRL   HABIT,   THE— Paramount.— An   up- 
roarious farce  that  boosts  Charles  Ruggles  to 
stardom.    It's  all  laughs.    See  itl    (Aug.) 

GOD'S  GIFT  TO  WOMEN— Warners.— Frank 
Fay  is  the  gift — Laura  La  Plante  the  receiver,  but 
after  many  hilarious  complications.  Well  worth  see- 
ing.    (May) 

GOLDIE— Fox.— If  you  like  lusty,  gusty  stuff. 
this'll  do.     Spencer  Tracy  and  Warren  Hymer  make 


L[]l>   II    UU.        OJICIItCI      iidty    UUU 

a  new  comedy  team.     (Aug.) 


GOLD  DUST  GERTIE— Warners.— Exuberant 
Winnie  Lightner  gambols  through  a  poor  story.  (July) 

GOOD  BAD  GIRL,  THE— Columbia.— The  old 
plot  of  the  girl  who  leaves  the  racket  to  marry  and  go 
straight.     (July) 

GRAFT — Universal. — A  fast  action  thriller.  Regis 
Toomey  is  a  dumbbell  reporter  and  Sue  Carol  is 
heart  interest.     (Oct.) 

GREAT  LOVER,  THE  —  M-G-M.  —  Adolphe 
Menjou  breaks  hearts.  Irene  Dunne  breaks  into 
song.      Both  do  good  jobs.     (Sept.) 

•  GUARDSMAN,  THE  —  M-G-M.  —  Alfred 
Lunt  and  Lynn  Fontanne.  You'll  be  ca-razy 
about  them  in  this  sophisticated  comedy.  See  it, 
but  don't  take  the  kids.     (Oct.) 

GUILTY  HANDS— M-G-M.— That  Lionel  Barry- 
more — how  he  can  act!  You  know  he  is  the  murderer, 
but  will  they  discover  his  guilt?  You'd  better  find 
out.     (Sept.) 

GUN  SMOKE— Paramount.— Great  for  the  kids, 
this  old-time  Western  melodrama,  with  Dick  Arlen  as 
a  cowboy.  Mary  Brian,  the  girl,  and  William  Boyd, 
the  menace.     (May) 

HARD  HOMBRE,  THE— Allied.— For  kids  and 
grown-ups.  A  novel  Western  Hoot  Gibson  and  Lina 
Basquette.     (Oct.) 


HELL'S  VALLEY— National  Players,  Ltd.— Very 
little  story,  if  any,  but  lots  of  riding  and  shooting  in 
this  Western,  with  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  Wally  Wales 
and  Vivian  Rich  sharing  the  acting  honors.     (June) 

HIGH  STAKES— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  an  amateur  detective  is  the  main  reason  for 
seeing  this.  Mae  Murray  is  the  woman  in  the  case. 
(July) 

HOLY  TERROR,  A— Fox.— A  two-fisted  West- 
ern with  George  O'Brien.  Good,  wholesome  enter- 
tainment.   (Aug.) 

HONEYMOON  LANE— Sono  Art.— Not  a  great 
picture,  but  a  delightful  one.  A  nice  romance  be- 
tween Eddie  Dowling  (who  sings)  and  June  Collyer. 
And  that  swell  comic,  Ray  Dooley.     (Sept.) 

HONOR  AMONG  LOVERS— Paramount.— 
Good  dialogue  in  this  story  of  love  between  boss  and 
secretary,  with  excellent  performances  by  Fredric 
March,  Claudette  Colbert  and  that  Ace  of  Cads, 
Monroe  Owsley.     (May) 

•  HUCKLEBERRY  FINN  —  Paramount.  — 
This  sequel  to  "Tom  Sawyer"  will  cure  the 
blues.  Jackie  Coogan  and  Junior  Durkin  take  you 
back  to  old  swimmin'  hole  days.     (Oct.) 

HUSH  MONEY— Fox.— Another  gangster  film 
and  not  a  very  thrilling  one.  Joan  Bennett  and 
Hardie  Albright  try  hard.     (Aug.) 

I  LIKE  YOUR  NERVE  —  First  National.— 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  acts  just  like  his  father  did 
in  "The  Americano."  He  does  it  well,  too.  The 
story  is  weak.      (Sept.) 

IMMORTAL  VAGABOND,  THE— UFA.— A 
edious  Tyrolian  story  without  a  single  yodel.  Nice 
scenery,  good  acting,  English  dialogue.    (Oct.) 

INDISCREET  —  United  Artists.  —  Good,  enter- 
taining story.  Gloria  Swanson  sings  well.  Ben  Lyon 
and  Arthur  Lake  great  support.     (June) 

IRON  MAN — Universal. — Lew  Ayres  is  starred  as 
the  prize-fighter  but  Bob  Armstrong,  in  the  role  of 
manager,  steals  the  picture.  Jean  Harlow  plays  her 
usual  vamp  role.     (June) 

I  TAKE  THIS  WOMAN— Paramount.— A 
wheezy  old  plot  dressed  up  for  Gary  Cooper  and 
Carole  Lombard.     Just  another  movie.     (Aug.) 

•  IT'S  A  WISE  CHILD— M-G-M.— Marion 
Davies'  rare  gift  for  comedy  and  Robert 
Leonard's  direction  make  this  old  stage  play  a  brand 
new  hilarious  farce  not  to  be  missed.    (May) 

JUST  A  GIGOLO— M-G-M.— William  Haines  in 
a  spicy,  amusing  offering.  But  leave  the  children  at 
home.     (July) 

KICK  IN— Paramount.— They  tried  hard  to  make 
Clara  Bow  dramatic,  sympathetic  and  emotional  in 
this  one.     Regis  Toomey  is  great.     (July) 

LADIES'  MAN— Paramount.— William  Powell  as 
a  sympathetic  and  attractive  gigolo,  charms  Olive 
Tell.  Carole  Lombard  and  Kay  Francis.  Entertain- 
ing picture.    (June) 

•     LARCENY      LANE  —  Warners.    —    James 
Cagney  and  Joan   Blondell  in  another  "crook 
picture"  that's  top-notch  entertainment.     (Oct.) 


LASCA  OF  THE  RIO  GRANDE— Universal.— 
Just  another  Western — but  this  one  is  South  of  the 
Rio  Grande.  Fair  entertainment  with  Johnny  Mack 
Brown,  Leo  Carillo  and  Dorothy  Burgess.     (Sept.) 

LAST  FLIGHT,  THE— First  National.— Gay 
aviators  in  Paris  make  the  first  half  grand,  but  the 
somber  part  is  not  so  good.  Richard  Barthelmess' 
work  is  overshadowed  by  the  others  in  the  cast.  (Oct.) 

LAST  PARADE,  THE— Columbia.— Another 
gangster  picture  and  good  too.  with  thrills,  suspense, 
romance  and  laughs.  Jack  Holt  and  Tom  Moore  are 
rivals  for  Constance  Cummings'  favor.     Jack  wins. 

(May) 

LAUGH   AND   GET   RICH— Radio   Pictures.— 

Misadventures  of  a  boarding  house  mistress,  played 
by  Edna  May  Oliver,  and  her  chronically  tired  hubby. 
Hugh  Herbert.    Good  for  plenty  of  laughs.    (May) 

LAUGHING  SINNERS— M-G-M— Not  so  good, 
but  if  you  are  a  Joan  Crawford  fan  you  may  like  it. 
Clark  Gable  and  Neil  Hamilton,  too.     (Aug.) 

LAWLESS  WOMAN,  THE— Chesterfield  Pic- 
tures.— An  uninteresting,  unimportant  film.  A 
gangster-newspaper  plot,  poorly  done.     (Aug.) 

•  LAWYER'S  SECRET,  THE— Paramount.— 
Clive  Brook,  Charles  Rogers,  Richard  Arlen, 
Fay  Wray  and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  performances. 
Intense  drama.     (July) 

*LE   MILLION— Tobis   Production.— It's  not 
necessary  to  understand  the  language  to  get 
all  the  fun  out  of  this  French  musical  farce.     (Aug.) 

LIGHTNING  FLYER,  THE— Columbia.— Jimmy 
Hall  as  the  wild  young  son,  who  makes  good  and  wins 
the  love  of  a  good  woman — Dorothy  Sebastian.  Not 
so  good;  then  again,  not  so  bad.    (May) 

LOVER  COME  BACK— Columbia.— Betty  Bron- 
son  changing  her  type  with  rather  sorry  results.  (A  ug.) 

LULLABY,  THE— M-G-M.— Your  old  friend 
"Madame  X"  dressed  up  in  none  too  new  garments. 
What  a  shame  that  capable  Helen  Hayes  had  to  make 
her  film  debut  in  this  trite  story.     (Sept.) 

MAD  GENIUS,  THE— Warners.— Magnificently 
produced  and  photographed,  but  John  Barrymore's 
artistry  is  so  perfect  in  an  unsympathetic  role  that  the 
story  leaves  a  bad  taste.    (July) 


MAD  PARADE,  THE— Liberty  Productions. — 
The  woman's  side  of  the  war  done  brilliantly  by  an 
all-feminine  cast.     (July) 

MAGNIFICENT  LIE,  THE— Paramount.— Not 
up  to  the  standard  of  most  Ruth  Chatterton  films.  But 
there's  a  new  young  man  named  Ralph  Bellamy 
who  is  particularly  good.     (Sept.) 

•  MALTESE  FALCON,  THE  —  Warners.  — 
Gripping  mystery  story  from  the  novel  by  the 
same  name.  The  sleek  Ricardo  Cortez  plays  the 
demon  detective  superbly  and  Bebe  Daniels  does  ex- 
cellent work.    Don't  miss  it.     (June) 

MAN     IN     POSSESSION,     THE— M-G-M.— 

Robert  Montgomery  in  a  spicy  comedy  full  of  situa- 
tions and  sparkling  lines.     Amusing.     (Aug.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  16  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 

Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    Ma\e  this  your  reference  list 


Page 

Bad  Company— RKO-Pathe 50 

Cisco  Kid,  The — Fox 50 

Consolation  Marriage — Radio  Pictures.  51 

Dangerous  Affair,  A — Columbia 52 

Devotion— RKO-Pathe 51 

Dreyfus  Case,  The — Columbia 115 

Fifty  Fathoms  Deep — Columbia 115 

Get-Rich-Quick  Wallingford— M-G-M .   50 

Heaven  on  Earth — Universal 115 

Homicide  Squad — Universal 52 


Page 
Honor  of  the  Family — First  National . .   52 

My  Sin — Paramount 52 

Mystery  Train,  The — Darmour  Prod.  .115 

Old  Song,  The— Kreutzburg  Prod 115 

Pagan  Lady — Columbia 115 

Parisian,  The — Capital  Prod 115 

Penrod  and  Sam — First  National 52 

Personal  Maid — Paramount 53 

Reckless  Living — Universal 53 

Road  to  Reno,  The — Paramount 53 


Page 

Sea  Ghost — Imperial 115 

Shanghaied  Love — Columbia 53 

Should  a  Doctor  Tell?— Regal  Prod.. .  .115 

Sob  Sister — Fox 53 

Student's  Song  of  Heidelberg,  A— UFA115 

This  Modern  Age— M-G-M 52 

24  Hours- — Paramount 51 

We  Three— First  National 53 

White  Devil,  The— UFA 115 


10 


FIRST     DOWN     after     the     game 


THE  CHAMPAGNE 
OF    GINGER   ALES 


October  has  a  history  all  its 
own.  And  most  of  it  is  foot- 
ball. Then  the  old  grads  feel 
like  undergrads,  and  all  the 
highways  on  a  Saturday  lead 
to  the  stadiums. 

And   Canada  Dry  seems  to 
sparkle    even    more    gaily   in 
tune  with  the  nip   in  the 
weather  ...  to  become  more 
welcome  because  of  the  stir- 
ring times. 
Certainly    no    celebration    could 
be    without    this    Champagne    of 
Ginger  Ales  .  .  .  and  seem  complete. 
For  it's   most   of   all   when   you're 
having  a  good  time  that  you  want 
Canada  Dry. 

Now  Priced  for  the  Thrifty 

And  now  that  the  price  of  this 
fine  old  ginger  ale  is  so  low,  it 
appeals  to  your  more  serious  mo- 
ments, too,  when  you  stop  to  count 
your  pennies.  For  there  never  was 
a  greater  value  in  ginger  ales. 

Make  sure  you  always  have  an 
ample  supply  of  Canada  Dry.  In 
most  cities  it  now  comes  in  two 
sizes — the  new  large  size  and  the 
familiar  twelve-ounce  bottle. 


A   football    party    buffet 

Little  sandwiches  shaped  like  footballs  to  satisfy  an 
appetite  made  large  by  an  afternoon  in  the  open  air 
.  .  .  olives  stuffed  with  anchovies,  pimientos,  almonds, 
and  pearl  onions  to  help  ivork  up  another  appetite 
for  dinner  .  .  .  some  caviar  and  canapes  .  .  .  and  above 
all,  cool,  sparkling  glasses  of  Canada  Dry  to  take  the 
huskiness  out  of  your  throat  and  to  refresh  and  ex- 
hilarate you.  Make  the  ice  cubes  of  frozen  ginger  ale, 
too,  so  you  won't  dilute  the  flavor.  Let  your  guests 
help  themselves. — Originated  by  Ida  Bailey  Allen, 
President  National  Radio  Home  Makers  Club. 


CANADA     DRY 


Reg.  U.  S.  I'at.  Oft. 


A  NEW  LARGE  SIZE   •   A  NEW  LOW  PRICE 


©  1931 


She  can 


stand  a  "close-up1  #. . 


can  you 


'     T      ItMs  thrift  dentifrice 

Millions  welcome  this  tnr 

that  beauty  «<**  *>  smfdy 


^VEN  before  thnft  became 
K  the  watchword  >n  the 
ZpeListerine  Tooth  Paste  at 

sXdaclnevedama.ingPopu- 
*         „.icularly  wbh  women. 

SnT^ctJ  more  costly 

thItUbltermeToothPar: 
*v.  o  ctiowY  cleanunesb,  <* 

recomn>ena 


and  erase,  decolorations  and  ^^^^S 

"rtar,  ^t  does  not  harm  the  ^  ^       ^  »£ 

precious  enamel  rtself .  d„/solely  to  cost  cutting  m 

P  They  welcomed,  as  yon  w*  ^  ^  manu{aetnre  and  ism 

welcome,  that  wonderful  feehng  Get  a  tube  today .  IV 

If  cleanliness  and  patron  b             ^  ^  to  you. 
£  imparts  to  the  ««■*-£        PLambert  Phannacal  Com 

feeling  yo«  ^iate  Wth  *"  pany,  St.  Wis,  Mo.,  0.  9.  A 
terine  itself. 

And  «h.ie  .t  bu    yoorse>.  a  new 

didn't  seem  as  im-         YOU  CO  $  save 

portant  then  as  it     hand  bag  With  that    OY 

V            ,  thesav-                                         M    TI-',«»»«"'" 
does  now,  trie  sa>        _^^^^^^W!^     '"  "' ■„„  u  ■ >»< 


does  now,  the  sav- 
ing of  $3  a  year 
over  50^  dentifrices 

,vas  nevertheless  a 
factor.  You'll  ap- 
preciate its  thruti- 


ThaSsonesuggestwnfor 

spending   that    $3   you 
save  every  year  by  ustng 

Listerine    Tooth    F- * 
instead  of  d^f""*"1 

the  50i  class. 


IJ5TERL, 

TOOTH  PASTE 


D 


ressm 


Turl 


vey 


Anita  Page  gives 
a  culinary  lesson 
in  preparing  the 
Thanksgiving  bird 


A  GREAT  deal  of  the  success  of  your  Thanksgiving 
turkey  depends  upon  the  way  it  is  dressed.  A  taste- 
less stuffing  can  take  much  of  the  epicurean  glamour 
from  even  the  fattest  and  tastiest  bird. 

Anita  Page  has  a  culinary  ritual  which  she  faithfully  follows 
in  the  dressing  of  the  family  turkey.  And  those  who  have  been 
lucky  enough  to  eat  turkey  with  the  Pomares  family  can  tell 
you  that  the  dressing  is  simply  delicious.  There  are  really  nine 
distinct  steps  in  dressing  turkey  a  la  Page.    Here  they  are: 

First  Anita  carefully  scrapes  the  turkey  free  of  all  pin 
feathers  with  a  sharp  knife.  Then  she  breaks  up  as  much  of  a 
loaf  of  sandwich  bread  as  is  needed  to  fill  the  great  void  of  Sir 
Turk.  Many  people  prefer  to  use  stale  bread,  rather  than  the 
fresh  for  their  dressings. 

To  the  bread,  Anita  adds  celery  diced  in  small  pieces.  And 
then,  here  is  one  thing  that  makes  Anita's  dressing  so  rich  and 
tasty.  Instead  of  using  water,  as  many  people  do,  Anita  adds 
rich  cream  to  the  other  dressing  ingredients.  The  dressing  is 
then  seasoned  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  sage,  and  whatever 
else  your  fancy  favors. 

The  last  few  steps  are  getting  the  turkey  ready  to  be  popped 
into  the  oven.  The  dressing  is  put  into  the  turkey,  the  opening 
sewed  up  with  a  needle  and  strong  linen  thread,  and  Anita 
even  goes  so  far  as  to  tie  the  legs  securely  with  thread.  Just 
before  the  turkey  is  put  into  the  oven  in  the  roaster,  Anita 
dashes  a  little  extra  salt  and  pepper  seasoning  over  the  whole 
outside  of  the  bird. 

SINCE  Turkey  is  not  the  whole  meal  on  Thanksgiving  boards, 
it  is  well  to  have  some  attractive  lighter  dishes  to  add  glory  to 
your  menu.  Lil  Dagover,  the  new  German  star  recently  im- 
ported to  Hollywood,  has  a  delicious  salad  recipe  which  would 
be  perfect  for  the  Thanksgiving  feast. 

It  is  called  Mazdaznan  Salad.  Here  is  the  way  she  prepares 
it.  She  takes  lettuce  leaves  and  arranges  them  on  plates.  On 
the  leaves  she  places  a  mixture  of  white  and  blue  raisins,  pine- 
apple, two  oranges  in  quarters,  a  bit  of  grapefruit,  and  a  lemon. 
To  these  fruits  is  added  two  eggs  thoroughly  beaten  with  cream 
and  a  bit  of  salt.  When  this  has  been  slowly  mixed  until  it 
thickens,  she  adds  whipped  cream.      With   this  salad,   Miss 


Photoplay  Magazine 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous  Cook 
Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the  stars. 
I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents. 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


The  best-dressed  turkey  in  Hollywood!     At  least 

this  one  promises  to  be  as  Anita  Page  puts  a  last 

stitch  into  its  sleek  sides.     You  can  almost  taste 

the  savory  dressing 


Dagover  says  she  likes  to  serve  dainty  thin  toast  and  herbs. 

ALTHOUGH  many  people  stick  to  the  good  old-fashioned 
Thanksgiving  desserts,  such  as  mince  or  pumpkin  pie  and 
plum  pudding,  there  are  as  many  who  say  it  is  well  to  have  the 
meal  end  with  lighter  fare,  perhaps  an  ice  or  a  sherbet.  Belle 
Bennett  has  a  recipe  for  a  most  decorative  and  tempting  dish  in 
the  lighter  vein.  It  is  a.  frozen  orange  parfait.  It  proves  a  delight- 
ful topper  to  rich  foods  and  leaves  the  digestion  quite  intact. 

The  ingredients  for  the  parfait  are  as  follows:  l1^  cups 
orange  juice,  1^2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  1 J  % 
teaspoons  granulated  gelatine,  3  tablespoons  boiling  water,  1 
pint  cream,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  and  candied  orange  peel  with 
pistachio  nuts  as  garnish. 

Mix  the  fruit  juice,  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Cook  over  boiling 
water  until  the  mixture  thickens;  then  add  the  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  boiling  water.  Cool,  freeze  to  a  mush,  add  whipped 
cream;  and  continue  freezing.  Mould,  and  serve  it  garnished 
with  the  candied  orange  peel  and  the  pistachio  nuts. 

Those  who  have  automatic  refrigeration  will  find  this  an  easy 
dessert  to  prepare  at  any  time.  It  is  especially  effective  looking 
when  served  in  tall  parfait  or  sherbet  glasses.  Cookies,  little 
colorfully  iced  cakes  or  even  layer  cake  adds  to  this  course. 

In  order  to  achieve  a  well-balanced  Thanksgiving  menu,  you 
must  consider  the  richness  of  the  main  dishes  and  have  enough 
vegetables  and  lighter  foods  to  make  the  meal  digestible.  It 
isn't  worthwhile  to  spend  the  following  day  regretting  the 
amounts  of  temptingly  rich  foods  you  could  not  resist!  And 
Thanksgiving  seems  to  be  one  event  when  dieting  goes  by  the 
board. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 

13 


Read  What  The  Real  Critics  Write! 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  6  ] 

Even  a  person  without  the 
slightest  gift  of  humor,  or  the 
worst  pessimist  in  the  world, 
could  not  fail  to  shake  with 
mirth  if  they  went  to  see 
"Politics." 

I  have  already  seen  it  twice 
and  I  could  see  it  again  with- 
out being  bored.  It  is  the 
funniest  yet,  and  in  the  world 
of  mirth  I  rank  Marie  Dress- 
ier and  Polly  Moran  first. 
Ruth  G.  Rutherford, 
Queens  Village,  N.  Y. 

Never  will  I  forget  the  day 
some  eighteen  years  ago  when 
Marie  Dressier  was  playing 
in  "Tillie's  Nightmare"  at 
the  Manhattan  Opera  House. 
I  lived  around  the  corner  and, 
childlike,  had  been  romping 
too  enthusiastically.  I  soon 
came  to  grief  when  I  fell 
several  steps  to  the  pavement. 
It  was  Marie  Dressier  who 
picked  me  up,  dried  my  tears, 
and  consoled  me  with  a  plate 
of  ice  cream. 

The  remembrance  of  that 
beautiful  gesture  of  hers  is 
one  of  my  fondest  memories. 
However,  that  is  typical  of 
Marie. 

Mathilda  E.  Scommodan, 
New  York  City 

Readers  Say — 


Madge  Evans  looks  like 
Norma  Shearer  and  is  very 
fascinating.      Her     perform- 
ances in  "Guilty  Hands"  with  Lionel  Barry- 
more,  and  in  "Sporting   Blood"   with   Clark 
Gable,  were  splendid. 

Marie  Kromis, 
Detroit,  Mich. 

beautiful  voice  go  to 


A  vivid  tableau  from  "Street  Scene" — that  stirring, 
heart-breaking  drama  of  life  in  one  squalid  New  York 
tenement.  Scores  of  letters  are  pouring  in  pronouncing 
the  picture  a  masterpiece  and  heaping  high  praise  on  the 
actors  and  Director  King  Vidor 


S9*. 


Why  let  John  Boles' 
'Seed"? 


M. 


LOWENBERG, 

Detroit,  Mich. 


What  is  the  matter  with  Ruth  Chatterton? 
Or  the  person  that  chooses  her  stories? 
Lillian  E.  Georger, 

Snyder,  N.  Y. 

Adult  Movies 

Anent  this  controversy  about  movies  for 
adults,  or  movies  for  children,  why  not  both, 
and  on  the  same  programs?  What  a  child 
can't  and  doesn't  understand  won't  hurt  him. 
Only  his  eye  will  be  affected,  and  that  educa- 
tionally, toward  grace,  charm  and  loveliness. 

What  he  can  understand,  and  it  is  frequently 
more  than  we  adults  give  him  credit  for,  won't 
hurt  him  either,  if  it's  true  to  life,  no  matter 
how  sordid  or  how  tragic.  It's  better  for 
children  to  learn  these  things  from  pictures  or 
books  than  in  the  gutter  or  through  tragic 
mistakes  in  their  own  lives. 

When  I  was  eight,  I  pulled  Ibsen's  "A  Doll's 
House"  off  the  family  bookshelf.  The  title 
attracted  me.  That  is  all  I  remember,  that 
and  how  disappointed  I  was  to  find  it  wasn't 
about  dolls  after  all. 

So  here's  for  "A  Free  Soul"  and  Mickey 
Mouse  and  everything  between  that  contains 
good  fun,  high  adventure,  homely  sentiment 
or  deep  emotion,  social  or  psychological  under- 
standing. 

Helen  Frank  Shaver, 

Dayton,  Ohio 

u 


The  young  lovers  of  "An 
American  Tragedy,"  that 
much-discussed  talkie  forged 
from  Dreiser's  novel.  Sylvia 
Sidney  and  Phillips  Holmes 
are  being  bombarded  with 
posies  for  their  excellent 
work  in  the  picture 


Jim  Cagney 

A  bouquet  to  James 
Cagney  for  his  work,  not  only 
in  "The  Public  Enemy,"  but 
even  in  his  smaller  parts.  He 
is  a  real  actor,  one  with 
courage  enough  to  take  an  un- 
sympathetic role  and  one 
with  ability  enough  to  gain 
sympathy  and  even  admira- 
tion for  such  a  rat  as  Tommy 
Powers. 

Vera  Clarke, 
Chicago,  111. 

"The  Star  Witness" 

I  have  recently  seen  that 
thoroughly  enjoyable  picture, 
"The  Star  Witness."  It  is 
undoubtedly  the  best  por- 
trayal of  middle-class  Amer- 
ican family  life  to  reach  the 
screen. 

James  Aultz, 
Charleston,  W.  Va. 

Appreciation 

May  I,  as  a  reader  of 
Photoplay,  express  my  ap- 
preciation of  the  articles, 
"The  Way  I  See  It,"  by 
Ronald  Colman  and  "Don't 
Expect  Too  Much,"  by  Marie 
Dressier?  These  truths  were 
genuinely  helpful  to  us  be- 
cause they  were  gems  from 
the  thought  life  of  two  in- 
dividuals who  have  made  the 
struggle  for  success  and  have 
been  big  enough  to  stand  that 
success  after  it  was  attained. 
Florence  Z.  Wagner, 
Glen  Ellyn,  111. 

The  Bennetts 

I  have  always  wondered  where  Constance  and 
Joan  Bennett  got  their  talent.  Lately  I  solved 
this  question.  I  saw  Richard  Bennett  in 
"Bought." 

Herbert  Harrison, 
Newark,  N.  J. 

Praise 

Give  Una  Merkel,  Eddie  Nugent,  and  that 
new  lad  named  John  Arledge  (who  played  in 
"Daddy  Long  Legs")  more  parts.  They  are 
good!  And  they  make  a  good  picture  a  per- 
fect one. 

Juanita  Roberts, 
Nashville,  Tenn. 

Don't  Go,  Greta! 

All  the  rumors  of  Garbo  leaving  the  screen 
are  very  alarming!  If  Greta  goes,  Hollywood 
will  lose  its  most  vibrant  personality  and  its 
greatest  actress. 

Edith  Atkins, 
London,  Canada 

Wow!    Stop  Your  Ears! 

It's  been  a  long  time  between  Garbo  pictures. 
Does  that  show  they  are  having  a  hard  time 
fitting  stories  to  her  limited  range,  now  that 
she  is  committed  to  talkies?  It  seems  to  me 
that  Greta  served  her  purpose  in  pictures,  and 
fascinated  us  all,  in  her  silent  romances.  I'm 
beginning  to  wonder  if  her  great  days  as  a 
public  idol  are  not  over.  Stars  don't  last  for- 
ever, especially  when  their  mediums  change. 
Mary  F.  Stilton, 

Portland,  Me. 


Red-Hot  Notes  From  Keen-eyed  Fans 


"Street  Scene" 

"Street  Scene"  is,  in  my 
opinion,  the  finest  talking 
picture  Hollywood  has  turned 
out.  One  I  intend  to  see 
again  and  again.  It  is  so  real 
and  gripping. 

Thomas  F.  Ryan. 
New  York  City 

The  "Glamour"  Tiling 

There  is  so  much  talk  about 
that  "glamour"  in  actresses 
like  Garbo,  Dietrich  and 
Norma  Shearer.  Who  says 
the  public  is  fed  up  with  the 
"sweet"  roles  that  are  played 
by  Janet  Gaynor,  Dorothy 
Jordan  and  Mary  Brian?  Give 
us  more! 

E.  C.  Dahl, 
Columbia,  Conn. 

It  was  good  news  to  learn 
that  Mary  Brian,  who  for  six 
years  has  been  Paramount's 
saccharine  standby,  is  off  to 
Europe  in  search  of  sophis- 
tication. She  is  a  splendid 
little  actress  and  I  am  sure 
she  will  make  the  "glamour" 
grade. 

VINCENT  BELGARBO, 

Chicago,  111. 
Is  Clara  Finished? 


I  was  very  much  interested 
in  Harry  Lang's  swell  story 
on  Clara  Bow  in  the  desert, 
blonde  hair,  billowing  curves 
and  all.    Honestly,  I'm  hop- 
ing for  a  comeback  from  the  girl,  but  I  really 
think    that    maybe    she'd    better   forget    the 
talkies  and  settle  down  into  a  regular  home 
girl — with  Rex  Bell,  if  she  loves  him.     Clara 
had  her  fling  in  pictures — and  she  was  a  star  for 
five   years.     The    talkies   seem   to   have   her 
licked.    Why  not  recognize  it,  and  try  another 
kind  of  life  for  a  while,  out  of  the  limelight? 
George  Farwell, 
Birmingham,  Ala. 

The  splendid  article  in  Photoplay,  "Rough- 
ing It  with  Clara,"  has  tended  to  increase  my 
admiration  for  Clara  Bow  by  leaps  and  bounds. 
I  have  never  failed  to  see  any  of  her  pictures. 
She  has  all  the  qualities  of  a  fine  actress, 
even  though  her  effervescence  is  usually  mis- 
interpreted. 

Leora  L.  Chusett 
East  Pittsburgh,  Penna. 

Your  recent  account  of  Clara  Bow's  tem- 
porary retirement  was  intimate,  human  and 
revealing,  and,  therefore,  thoroughly  enjoyable. 
The  article  gave  the  reader  real  insight  into 
the  character  of  the  real  Clara,  and  I  feel  as- 
sured that  she  will  come  back. 

Adelaide  Burnett. 
Washington,  D.  C. 

What!     Another  Clara? 

The  other  day  I  saw  Peggy  Shannon  in 
"Silence,"  and  I  certainly  think  she  can  take 
Clara  Bow's  place. 

R.  Madison, 
Cincinnati,  Ohio 

I  have  seen  both  Sylvia  Sidney  and  Peggy 
Shannon  and,  with  apologies  to  both,  they 
are  no  Clara  Bows. 

Frank  Jones, 
Washington,  D.  C. 


Walter  Huston  tells  the  family!  A  big  scene  from  "The 
Star  Witness,"  now  stirring  up  excited  comment  from 
the  fan  army.  Left  to  right :  Huston,  Dick  Moore,  Frances 
Starr,  Eddie  Nugent,  George  Ernest,  Sally  Blane,  Grant 
Mitchell,  Chic  Sale  and  Allan  Lane 


It's  an  Education 

The  highest  possible  praise 
goes  to  "An  American 
Tragedy."  Every  boy  and 
girl  in  their  teens  should  see 
the  picture.  It  is  an  educa- 
tion in  itself. 

George  Howard, 
San  Antonio,  Texas 

Worth  Every  Penny! 

Tuesday  and  Friday  eve- 
nings mean  to  our  family 
what  "first  nights"  do  to 
Hollywoodians.  Speaking 
sensibly,  perhaps  we 
shouldn't  afford  those  two 
dollars  and  forty  cents  for 
our  bi-weekly  movie;  how- 
ever, speaking  for  content- 
ment's sake,  the  sum  seems 
trifling. 

We've  succumbed  to  cine- 
matic glamour  to  the  extent 
of  refusing  to  become 
irritated  when  minor  in- 
consistencies occasionally 
appear  on  the  screen.  Falling 
in  with  the  spirit  of  the  pic- 
ture helps  even  the  most 
skeptical  patron  lose  the  chip 
from  his  shoulder. 

Katherine  Hood, 

Tucson,  Ariz. 

Mostly  Cheers 


These  hands  are  guilty!  At 
least,  the  picture  says  so. 
Lionel  Barrymore  is  being 
highly  complimented  for  his 
work  in  "Guilty  Hands,"  and 
so  is  Kay  Francis,  shown 
here  with  him  in  one  of  the 
vital  moments  of   that   film 


Three    cheers    for    Robert 

Montgomery!    He  is  not  only 

handsome  but  his  acting  is 

superb.     I  saw  "Shipmates" 

four    times    and    enjoyed    it 

more  each  time.  Dorothy  Jordan  is  the  type 

to  play  opposite  him — not  Garbo  or  Shearer. 

Ann  McMiller, 

Minneapolis,  Minn. 

Have  just  seen  "This  Modern  Age"  and 
after  seeing  Pauline  Frederick,  I  am  wondering 
why  she  is  playing  featured  parts  instead  of 
starring?  As  an  actress  she  towers  over  many. 
She  has  finish,  technique  and  a  warmth  in  her 
work  which  most  stars  lack. 

Esther  Conxow, 
Philadelphia,  Penna. 

Do  give  us  more  of  Claudette  Colbert.    She 
is    simply    wonderful,    possessing    a    distinct 
charm  and  exotic  personality  all  her  own. 
Mary  Child, 
San  Diego,  Calif. 

Let   us   see   more   of   that    adorable    little 
Dorothy  Jordan.     I  see  all  her  pictures. 
June  Campbell, 
New  Orleans,  La. 

Junior  Durkin  is  a  marvelous  actor  and  a 
genuine  boy.  Is  there  higher  praise  for  a  boy 
actor  than  that? 

Ethel  Marie  Helmer, 
Iron  River,  Wis. 

Posey  for  Sylvia 

I  hope  Sylvia  Sidney  will  get  the  breaks. 
She  is  so  refreshingly  different  from  the  rank 
and  file  that,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  she  has 
appeared  in  only  a  few  pictures,  she  now  holds 
the  place  in  my  esteem  which  Greta  Garbo 
has  held.  True,  Garbo  is  different  too,  but  not 
as  humanly  so  as  is  Sylvia. 

Joy  Bundenth al, 
Lansing,  Mich. 
[  please  turn  to  page  93  ] 

15 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  10  1 


MAN  OF  THE  WORLD— Paramount.— Good 
picture;  not  much  action  but  plenty  of  drama  and  a 
great  performance  by  William  Powell.  Carole  Lom- 
bard is  the  lovely  heroine.    (May) 

MEET  THE  WIFE— Columbia.— Lew  Cody  and 
Laura  La  Plante  excellent  in  a  hilarious  farce  taken 
from  the  old  stage  play.     Plenty  of  laughs.     (June) 

MEN  ARE  LIKE  THAT— Columbia.  —  Laura 
La  Plante  and  John  Wayne  find  life  and  love  at  an 
army  post.      (Oct.) 

MEN  OF  THE  SKY— First  National.— Yep,  it's 
an  aviation  war  story — but  it's  pretty  flimsy  stuff. 
Irene  Delroy  and  Jack  Whiting.     (Sept.) 

•  MERELY  MARY  ANN— Fox.— Take  your 
hankie  to  this  one,  but  be  sure  to  go.  Not 
since  "7th  Heaven"  have  Charlie  Farrell  and  Janet 
Gaynor  been  so  whimsical  and  idyllic.      (Sept.) 

MERRY  WIVES  OF  VIENNA,  THE— Super 
Film. — Even  if  you  no  speak  Deulsch,  you'll  enjoy 
this.  Rippling  waltzes  and  sparkling  gayety  make 
this  foreign  film  worthwhile.     (Sept.) 

•  MILLIONAIRE,  THE— Warners.— George 
Arliss — need  we  say  more?  This  time  he  plays 
a  wealthy  American  automobile  manufacturer.  Eva- 
lyn  Knapp  is  the  attractive  daughter  and  David 
Manners,  the  business  partner.    See  it.    (May) 

•  MIRACLE  WOMAN,  THE— Columbia.— 
A  well  staged,  directed,  and  photographed 
picture  with  Barbara  Stanwyck  doing  her  best  work 
as  a  female  evangelist.     (Aug.) 

MONKEY  BUSINESS  —  Paramount.  —  Messrs. 
Marx,  Marx,  Marx  &  Marx  in  another  outbreak  of 
assorted  lunacy.  No  beginning,  no  end — just  gor- 
geous nonsense.     (Oct.) 

MONSTERS  OF  THE  DEEP— Nat.  Spitzer 
Prod. — Fishing  adventures  in  Magdalena  Bay,  off  the 
Mexican  coast,  where  mammoth  fish  aoound.  For 
fish  fans.     (July) 

MOTHER  AND  SON  —  Monogram  Prod.  — 
Another  Reno  story,  with  Clara  Kimball  Young  as 
Faro  Lit.     (Oct.) 

MR.  LEMON  OF  ORANGE— Fox— El  Brendel, 
starring,  in  some  mistaken  identity  stuff.  Riotously 
funny  in  spots,  and  Fifi  Dorsay  helps  a  lot.     (May) 


MURDER  AT  MIDNIGHT— Tiffany  Prod  — 
Yep,  it's  a  mystery  story  and  a  swell  one!  Alice 
White,  in  a  small  part,  has  a  sex-appeal  voice.    (Oct.) 

MURDER    BY    THE    CLOCK— Paramount.— 

With  such  a  cast,  headed  by  Lilyan  Tashman,  this 
should  have  been  swell.  But  alas!  and  alack!  this 
gruesome,  murder  story  is  nothing  but  gruesome. 
(Sept.) 

MYSTERY  OF  LIFE,  THE— Classic— Clarence 
Darrow  and  a  Smith  College  zoology  professor  ex- 
plain evolution.  Uh-huh,  it's  as  dull  as  it  sounds. 
(Sept.) 

NEVER  THE  TWAIN  SHALL  MEET— M-G-M. 

— Lavishly  produced  remake  of  the  old  silent,  but 
not  nearly  so  good.  Leslie  Howard  great  in  some 
scenes.     (June) 

NEWLY  RICH— See  FORBIDDEN  ADVEN- 
TURE. 

NIGHT  ANGEL,  THE— Paramount.— A  bad 
display  for  the  talents  of  Nancy  Carroll  and  Fredric 
March.    (Aug.) 

•  NIGHT  NURSE— Warners.— Drag  out  your 
pet  adjectives,  go  see  this  and  use  'em.  It's 
great.  Barbara  Stanwyck,  Ben  Lyon  and  a  grand 
cast.    (Aug.) 


PAGLIACCI— Audio  Cinema   Prod, 
opera  poorly  transferred  to  the  screen. 


-Bad  grand 

(May) 


•     PALMY    DAYS— United   Artists.— A    typical 
Eddie  Cantor-and-nonsense  show  that  should 
bring  film  musicals  back.     (Oct.) 

PARDON  US— Hal  Roach— M-G-M— Laurel  and 
Hardy  in  a  lot  of  hokum.     Funny.     (Oct.) 

PARTY  HUSBAND— First  National.— Dorothy 
Mackail!  and  James  Rennie  work  hard  as  the  newly- 
weds,  but  the  story  is  weak.     (June) 

16 


•  POLITICS  —  M-G-M.  —  Polly  Moran  and 
Marie  Dressier  start  you  off  with  a  giggle  and 
you'll  laugh  all  the  way  through  the  picture.  Don't 
miss  these  two  attempting  to  clean  up  the  town. 
(Sept.) 

PRIVATE  SCANDAL,  A  —  Headline  Prod.— 
Another  underworld  story  in  which  the  crook  re- 
forms.    (Oct.) 

PUBLIC  DEFENDER,  THE— Radio  Pictures. 
— After  "Cimarron"  you  expect  too  much  of  Richard 
Dix.  That's  why  this  story  of  a  man  who  brings  a 
gang  of  crooks  to  justice  is  disappointing.     (Sept.) 


The  youngest  contract  player  in  pic- 
tures, up  to  now.  Paramount  has 
just  slapped  a  long-term  document 
on  Jerry  Tucker,  aged  four.  Jerry 
has  been  an  extra  man,  and  gets  a 
regular  job  because  of  his  swell 
recitations,  with  gestures 


PUBLIC  ENEMY,  THE— Warners.— A  gangster 
picture  that  is  lining  the  thrill-seekers  up  at  the  box- 
office.     (June) 

•  QUICK  MILLIONS  —  Fox.  —  Another  excel- 
lent gangster  picture  if  you  go  for  them.  Spen- 
cer Tracy  is  the  leader  of  the  racketeers,  and  you'll 
like  Sally  Eilers.     (June) 

REBOUND—  RKO-Pathe—  Not  in  the  big  amuse- 
ment class  but  worth  seeing.  Ina  Claire  and  Robert 
Ames.    (Aug.) 

RECKLESS  HOUR,  THE— First  National.— An 
old  story  with  a  few  new  twists.  Dorothy  Mackaill 
and  a  good  cast.     Just  fair.     (Aug.) 

RIDER  OF  THE  PLAINS,  A— Syndicate- 
Grand  old  Western  full  of  hokum,  and  a  happy, 
happy  ending.     (May) 

ROAD  TO  SINGAPORE,  THE— Warners.— Bill 
Powell  and  Doris  Kenyon — splendid  in  a  tropical 
drama  of  tangled  loves  and  desires.     (Oc'.) 

ROAD  TO  SINGAPORE,  THE— M-G-M.—  Re- 
viewed under  the  title  "Cheri  Bibi.")  Jack  Gilbert 
in  an  entertaining  drama.  Lots  of  tragedy,  but  a 
happy  ending  and  Leila  Hyams  as  the  heroine.  Well 
worth  seeing.     (June) 

SALVATION  NELL— Tiffany-Cruze  —  Religion 
and  sentiment  are  pretty  obvious  in  this  out-of-date 
story,  but  Helen  Chandler  and  Ralph  Graves  make 
you  believe  every  word  of  it.     (Sept.) 

•  SECRET  CALL,  THE— Paramount.— Peggy 
Shannon,  who  pinch-hits  for  Clara  Bow  in 
this  one,  scores  a  solid  hit.  It's  a  political  story  with 
love  interest.     Dick  Arlen  excellent.       (Sept.) 

•  SECRET  SIX,  THE— M-G-M.— Still  another 
gang  story  but  with  more  humor.  Splendid 
cast,  includes  Wallace  Beery,  Lewis  Stone,  Clark 
Gable,  Johnny  Mack  Brown  and  Jean  Harlow.  (June) 

•  SECRETS  OF  A  SECRETARY— Paramount. 
— The  actors  make  this  worth  the  price. 
Claudette  Colbert  is  fine  and  that  Herbert  Marshall, 
from  the  stage,  is  one  of  those  men  you  don't  forget. 
(Sept.) 

•  SEED — Universal. — Interesting  and  realistic 
story  based  on  Charles  Norris'  novel.  John 
Boles  doesn't  sing  but  his  acting  is  superb.  Lois 
Wilson  and  Genevieve  Tobin  both  excellent.  Don't 
miss  it.     (June) 

SHERLOCK   HOLMES'    FATAL   HOUR  — 

Warners-First  Division. — British-made  mystery  film, 
rather  long-drawn-out  but  not  lacking  in  interest. 
Sherlock  Holme's  and  IValson  solve  another  murder 
mystery.     (Sept.) 

SHIPMATES— M-G-M.— Plenty  of  pep  and  ac- 
tion, plus  the  United  States  Navy,  make  this  a  veri- 
table gale  of  laughter  from  beginning  to  end.  Robert 
Montgomery  heads  the  cast.     (June) 

SHIPS  OF  HATE— Trem  Carr—  Murder  and 
gruesomeness  on  shipboard.  Just  fair.  Don't  pass 
up  game  a  of  bridge  for  it.    (Aug.) 

SIDE  SHOW — Warners. — Winnie  Lightner  and 
Charles  Butterworth  try  hard,  but  the  un-funny 
lines  are  distressing.     A  circus  story.     (Sept.) 

SIDEWALKS    OF    NEW    YORK— M-G-M— A 

laugh  a  moment  and  just  the  right  number  of 
moments  with  "dead  pan"  Buster  Keaton,  Cliff 
Edwards  and  Anita  Page.     (Oct.) 

SILENCE  —  Paramount.  —  Sure-fire  melodrama 
with  a  punch.  Clive  Brook,  Marjorie  Rambeau  and 
Peggy  Shannon.     (Oct.) 

6  CYLINDER  LOVE— Fox.— An  amusing  farce 
with  a  pretty  obvious  plot.     (July) 

SKIN  GAME,  THE— British  International.— 
Pretty  tedious.  An  excellent  English  cast,  however. 
(Sept.) 

•  SKIPPY— Paramount.— Jackie  Cooper  as 
Skippy,  and  Bobby  Coogan  as  Sooky  entirely 
lovable  in  this  grand  picture  based  on  Percy  Crosby's 
famous  comic  strip.  Young  and  old  alike  will  love  it. 
(May) 

SKYLINE — Fox. — Thomas   Meighan   builds   sky- 
scrapers   and    saves    Hardic    Albright    from    vamp 
Myrna  Loy.     Good  entertainment.    (Oct.) 
[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  96  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


l7 


^LONG    THE    HIGHROAD    OF   LIFE 


flehascomehomeagain, 
ind  tve  have  had  a  true 
thanksgiving.  He  is  still 
'ust  my  boy,  and  having 
'tim  bach  lias  made  me 
>ery  happy.  If  only  you 
:ould  have  been  here." 


WHEN  THEY  COME  HOME 

The  paper  takes  the  ivords  as  eagerly  as  he  will  read  them.  It 
holds  them  as  clearly  as  he  will  seem  to  Iwar  her  speak  . . .  It  is 
the  Eaton's  Highland  paper  she  always  uses.  The  touch  of  it, 
the  rustle  of  it  as  he  unfolds  it,  always  make  him  feel  that  she 
is  near.. .  along  the  highroad  of  life,  letters  unite  two  who  are 
apart,  sharing  great  moments  and  little  happenings.  For  years, 
Eaton's  Highland  papers  have  been  chosen  to  serve  this  purpose, 
in  countless  homes . . .  Eaton,  Crane  &  Pike  Co.,  Pittsfield,  Mass. 

EATON'S 

HIGHLAND 

Linen  and  Vellum 

WRITING  PAPERS 


The  favored  forms  in  Eaton's  Highland 
Vellum  are  the  letter  paper  and  the  corres- 
pondence  cards,  white  or  colors.  Eaton's 
Highland  Vellum  and  Eaton's  Highland 
Linen  may  be  had  at  Stationery  Depart- 
rnents  everywhere. 

FIFTY  CENTS  THE  BOX 


Hatlines  Mold  Headlines 


Here  are  four  examples  of  the  softer,  more  feminine  type  of 

hairdress  which  screen  stars  are  now  affecting.    These  are 

described  in  detail  below 


PERHAPS  it  may  seem  a  bit  silly  to  change  your  whole 
mode  of  hairdressing  for  a  fashionable  hat  whim  of  the 
moment,  but  it  seems  necessary  unless  you  wish  to  look 
out  of  the  picture  this  season.  The  more  of  these  new 
hats  I  see,  the  more  convinced  I  become  that  it  takes  very 
careful  hairdressing  to  make  them  look  really  smart.  You 
simply  can't  perch  a  saucy  little  hat  atop  your  old  bob  and  hope 
for  it  to  look  anything  but  incongruous. 

Hair  has  decided  back  interest  this  year.  It  has  a  soft, 
feminine  look,  yet  its  careful  grooming  does  not  give  the 
impression  of  being  too  studied.  None  of  that  uninteresting 
and  aging  "done-up"  look  that  heads  had  in  former  days.  Yet 
hair  once  again  is  done  up.  By  that  I  do  not  mean  that  it  is 
necessarily  long,  but  I  do  mean  that  even  the  medium  length 
bob  is  so  arranged  that  it  has  a  close,  head  molding  line  that 
is  deceptively  long  hairish. 

The  moment  a  hatline  moves  up  from  the  nape  of  the  neck, 
something  has  to  be  done  about  the  hairline.  This  year  both 
the  side  and  the  back  of  the  head  have  to  be  taken  into  con- 
sideration. Those  who  have  actually  long  hair  have  a  slight 
advantage.  They  can  brush  their  hair  up  off  one  ear,  wave  it 
to  follow  the  headline,  and  merely  knot  it  to  suit  their  hats  at 
the  back. 

The  bobbed  heads  have  not  so  simple  a  task.  Their  hair 
must  be  trained  to  keep  a  trim  line  from  forehead  down  the 
left  cheek  to  the  neck.  A  soft  roll  of  hair,  or  curls  pinned  or 
trained  in  place  have  to  replace  the  long  haired  knot. 

Recently  while  waiting  my  turn  at  the  hairdressers  I  over- 
heard a  smart  young  thing  tell  her  hairdresser,  "Just  trim  the 
underneath  ends,  I  am  letting  my  hair  grow  but  I  may  cut  it 
off  again."  That  sums  up  the  way  most  women  feel  at  the 
moment  about  hair.  They  are  torn  between  conflicting  ideas — 
no  one  wants  to  leap  before  she  is  certain  what  the  rest  will  do! 
In  an  attempt  to  establish  some  basis  of  uniformity  in  hair- 
dress,  a  recent  meeting  of  prominent  hairdressers  reached 
certain  points  of  agreement.     Here's  what  they  think. 


The  head  must  have  a  sculptured  look — that  is,  the  small, 
close-fitting  hairdress  is  still  the  best.  Hair  should  subtly 
natter  the  proportions  of  the  face.  A  few  say  the  whole  ear 
must  show  on  the  left  side,  others  only  a  little  more  than  the 
tip.  All  agree  that  some  ear  should  show.  I  think  you  will  have 
to  let  your  ears  be  the  guide  to  that,  however.  In  most  cases 
the  partially  covered  ear  is  a  more  becoming  style. 

Waves  must  roll  back.  Many  of  these  hairdressers  show  the 
hair  cut  in  graduated  lengths  to  allow  for  a  series  of  soft  curls 
at  the  sides.  Nearly  all  of  them  agree  that  the  hair  should  not 
be  longer  than  six  inches  in  back,  and  that  a  length  of  from  two 
to  three  inches  is  the  most  popular.  Every  one  of  them  advo- 
cates having  the  hair  thinned  out  so  that  it  will  stress  the  outline 
of  the  head.  Too  much,  and  too  thick  hair  adds  age,  they 
claim. 

The  longer,  fluffy  bob  has  been  the  accepted  mode  for  over 
a  year  now  on  the  screen.  It  has  been  done  in  various  ways 
but,  withal,  a  certain  monotony.  New  pictures,  however,  are 
revealing  more  and  more  stars  with  strikingly  individual 
coiffures. 

FEMININITY  is  the  keynote  of  smart  screen  hairdressing  at 
the  moment.  I  have  picked  four  interesting  ones  as  seen 
on  stars  of  both  sophisticated  and  more  youthful  types. 

Lilyan  Tashman  wears  one  of  the  smartest  arrangements  of 
the  season — sophisticated  yet  youthful.  Her  blonde  hair  is 
waved  up  and  back  off  the  ear.  The  short  ends  are  pinned  down 
in  almost  sculptured  curls.  This  is  a  perfect  coiffure  for  any 
of  the  new  hats. 

Anita  Page  exemplifies  a  more  youthful  type  with  her  fluffy 
evening  hairdress.  Her  longer  bob"  is  softly  curled  and  drawn 
back  over  the  ears,  a  few  ends  being  left  on  either  side  to  soften 
the  line  of  the  cheek.  A  jeweled  touch  appears  in  the  form  of 
a  pin  caught  at  one  side. 

Lynn  Fontanne,  who  is  the  charming  stage  star  now  appear- 
ing in  her  first  screen  role,  wears     [  please  turn  to  page  119  ] 


Friendly  Advice  on  Girls'  Problems 

HAVE  you  an  aggravating  hair  problem?    Are  you  puzzled  about  the  best  colors  for  your  type,  or  your  make- 
up? I  will  mail  you  a  letter  of  personal  advice  if  you  will  tell  me  your  specific  problem.    Be  sure  to  enclose 
a  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope. 

Simply  by  asking  for  them  you  may  have  my  booklet  of  normalizing  exercises  and  reducing  menus;  also 
my  complexion  leaflet,  giving  specific  treatment  for  blackheads  and  acne  as  well  as  general  advice  on  the  care 
of  the  skin. 

Address  me  at  PHOTOPLAY,  221  West  57th  Street,  New  York  City. 

CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK 


18 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


'9 


Is  Wollywoods  Indescribable  "ITT" 

Hidden  in  the 

MAGIC 


OF 

Make-up 

Is  make-up  the  secret  of  the 
glamorous  beauty  of  the  screen  stars? 

Can  every  girl  create  a 
beauty  that  thrills...  a  personality 
that  attracts  . . .  with  Hollywood's 
Make-Up  Secret? 

Read  the  answer  . . .  by 
Ho/Iyzvood's  Make-  Up  Genius  .  .  . 
Max  Factor. 


<c 


TT" 


that  indescribable  something  about  a 
personality  that  attracts,  that  allures,  that 

J.     JL  appeals;  that  is  magnetic  and  electric.  Every 

famous  screen  star  has  it .  .  .  and  holds  an  audience  of  mil- 
lions spellbound.  What  is  the  secret? 

"What  wc  have  discovered  in  pictures  about  beauty, 
about  make-up,  about  cosmetics ...  every  woman  should 
know.  True!  make-up  is  magic  . . .  and  in  the  magic  of  make- 
up lies  more  than  neis  beauty . . .  but  the  wand  of  make-up 
is  not  so  magical,  so  mysterious  that  every  woman  cannot 
wave  it  over  herself  and  produce  in  her  own  likeness  the 
vision  of  beauty  she  has  always  dreamed  of."  And  then 
Max  Factor,  Hollywood's  genius  of  make-up,  creator  of 
make-up  for  the  leading  motion  picture  stars  and  studios, 
told  me  the  secrets  of  make-up  which  every  woman  will 
want  to  know. 

If  you  would  double  your  beauty  . . .  gain  new  personality  .  .  .  new  charm  . .  .  new  attraction  . . . 
listen!  In  Hollvwood,  screen  stars  arc  using  a  new  kind  of  make-up  for  street  and  social  wear.  It  is 
based  on  cosmetic  color  harmony  . . .  Max  Factor's  famous  discovery  which  revolutionized  make-up 
in  Hollywood,  and  caused  all  stars  and  studios  to  adopt  his  make-up  exclusively.  A  make-up  ensem- 
ble...  powder,  rouge,  lipstick,  eyeshadow  and  other  essentials  in  perfect  color  harmonies  for  every 
individual  type  of  beauty  ...  in  blonde,  brunette,  redhead  and  brownette. 

And  each  star  has  her  own  individual  color  harmony,  too... just  the  exact  shades  in  each 
essential  to  blend  into  a  make-up  ensemble  exactly  suited  to  her  own  individual  personal 
ity  .  .  .  suggested  by  Max  Factor  to  accentuate  the  allure  of  natural  beauty.  No  wonder 
millions  silently  applaud  the  fascinating  beauty  of  the  stars. 

Now  you  .  .  .  like  a  screen  star  .  .  .  may  share  this  secret  of  beauty.  Max  Factor  J 
will  create  for  you  .  .  .  just  as  he  would  for  a  screen  star  .  .  .  your  own  color  har-  &7j£- 
mony  in  make-up,  according  to  your  own  complexion  analysis,  and  with  this 
priceless  gift  you  will  receive  a  copy  of  his  book,  "The  New  Art  of  Society 
Make-Up."  Discover  this  make-up  secret  of  Hollywood's ...  and  you'll  dis- 
cover the  one  way  to  new  beauty,  new  fascination,  and  that  indescribable 
something  called  "it"  which  until  now  has  been  held  within  the  glamorous 
world  called  Hollywood.  Mail  courtesy  coupon  now. 


CLARA  BOir 

Famous  Star 

Clara  Bow  •writes:  "For  the  last  six 
years  I  have  used  Max  Factor's  Make- 
Up  and  find  it  the  only  satisfying  make- 
up on  the  market." 

♦  ♦  ♦ 

J UNE  COLLY ER,  popular  star, 
and  Max  Factor,  Hollywood's  Make- 
Up  Genius,  using  1\  fax  Factor's  Lipstick 


You'll  Discover  .  .  . 

Why  all  Blondes  or  all  Brunettes 
should  not  use  the  same  color  harmony 
in  make-up. 

JVhy  Brownettes  and  Titians  may 
ruin  beauty  with  "off-color"  make-up. 

How  to  acquire  a  perfect  skin  for 
faultless  everyday  make-up. 

How  to  make-up  a  dry-skin. 

How  to  make-up  an  oily  skin. 

The  difference  between  theatrical  arid 
street  make-up. 

Three  secrets  of  successful  everyday 
make-up. 

Answers  to  twelve  troublesome  make- 
up problems. 


MAIL  FOR  YOUR  COMPLEXION  ANALYSIS 

|  Mr.  Max  Factor — Max  Factor  Studios,  Hollywood,  Calif.  1-11-49 

Dear  Sir:  Send  me  a  complimentary  copy  of  your  48-page  book,  "The  Ne*  An 
\of  Society  Make-Up",  persoVial  complexion  analysis  and  make-up  color  harmony 
I chart.    I  enclose  10c  (coin  or  sumps)  to  cover  cost  of  postage  and  handling. 

I 


MAXaFACTOR'S  Society  MAKE-UP 


osmetics  of  the  Stars  **  HOLLYWOOD 

96%  of  all  make-up  including  Technicolor  used  by  Hollywood's  Screen  Stars  and  Studios  is  Max  Factor's. 
(Los  Angela  Chamber  of  Comment  Statistics)  ©  igji   Max  Factor 


X/tdim 

|C,,_ 
I  Start . 


Compln 


F,„  D 

Cram,    □ 
Medium  LJ 

Ru<Mr.  D 

01,.,  -D 


EV£5 


p.-<    o 

Cn  O 
Hixl  D 
Bro-i.D 
BWk    D 


LASHES 
L.fl-!  O 
D»k    □ 


BLONDE 
L.tM  O  D»*  D 


BRUNETTE 
L.gh  D  D»A  D 


BROWNETTE 
L.j;hi  D  DiA  D 


REDHEAD 
rl.1  D  Dark  □ 


*M\ 


Dry      D 
Oily     □ 

UPS 
MaorH 
Dr,     D 

AGE 


20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


More  than   29   DISEASES 
may  enter  the  body  through  th 
MOUTH/  nose,  and  throat 

These  figures  are  impressive.  So  too  is  the  state- 
ment of  one  of  the  world's  most  distinguished 
physicians  "that  if  mouth  infection  could  be 
excluded,  the  other  channels  by  which  disease 
gains  entrance  into  the  body  might  almost  be 
ignored."  Both  clearly  indicate  the  importance 
of  keeping  the  mouth  clean  at  all  times,  and 
of  immediately  consulting  your  physician  in 
case  of  illness. 


KEEP    YOUR    MOUTH    CLEAN 
CONSULT  YOUR    DOCTOR 


On  arising  and  before  retiring 
gargle  with  LlSTERINE 


Reduces  Risk  of  Colds  5(F°,  tests  show 


Wouldn't  you  like  to  escape  a  nasty  cold 
this  winter?  Wouldn't  you  like  to  dodge 
an  irritated  throat?  Wouldn't  it  be  great  if 
the  children  didn't  have  to  be  kept  home 
from  school? 

Use  a  safe  mouth  wash 

Your  first  step  toward  accomplishing  this  is 
to  use  a  safe  mouth  wash.  One  that  is  safe 
and  healing  rather  than  harsh  and  destruc- 
tive to  tissue.  One  that  can  be  used  full 
strength.  Literally  millions  have  proved 
the  value  of  using  full  strength  Listerine  as 
a  mouth  wash  and  gargle  on  arising  and 
before  retiring.  And  from  three  to  five  times 
a  day  when  a  cold  is  coming  on,  or  there  is 
irritation  in  the  throat. 

Listerine's  germicidal  effect  is  simply 
amazing.  In  the  mouth  it  reduces  bacteria 
98 c'o.  This  no  doubt  accounts  for  the  fact 
that  it  reduced  colds  50%  as  shown  by  a 
series  of  scientifically  controlled  tests. 


Read  the  facts: 

102  persons  in  normal  health  were  under 
medical  observation  from  November  15, 
1930,  to  February  1,  1931.  34  of  them, 
designated  as  "controls"  did  not  gargle 
Listerine  at  all.  34  gargled  it  twice  a  day. 
The  remaining  34  gargled  five  times  daily. 
Now  see  what  happened: 

One-half  as  many  colds 
for  garglers 

The  "controls"  (those  who  did  not  use 
Listerine)  contracted  twice  as  many  colds 
as  those  who  gargled  Listerine  twice  daily. 
Moreover,  their  colds  lasted  three  times  as 
long  and  were  four  times  as  severe. 

Now  let  us  compare  the  "controls"  with 
those  who  gargled  Listerine  five  times  a  day: 

The  "controls"  had  three  times  as  many 
colds,  which  were  four  times  as  severe  and 
lasted  four  times  as  long. 


Due  to  germicidal  action  and 
healing  effect 

Such  results  are  due  to  two  great  qualities 
ot  Listerine: 

Its  marked  germicidal  action  which  en- 
ables it  to  reduce  mouth  bacteria  98%  and 
to  kill  germs  in  the  fastest  time  possible  to 
record. 

Its  soothing,  healing  effect  on  the  mu- 
cous membrane.  Unlike  harsh  antiseptics 
Listerine  causes  none  of  the  tissue  irritations 
which  allow  germs  easier  entrance.  Lister- 
ine actually  protects  the  surface  and  aids 
recovery  in  case  of  infection. 

Always  keep  Listerine  handy  in  home 
and  office.  Use  it  regularly,  and  at  the  first 
sign  of  trouble  increase  the  gargle  to  a  fre- 
quency of  from  three  to  five  times  a  day  and 
call  your  doctor.  Remember,  Listerine  is  a 
powerful  germicide  and  at  the  same  time 
safe.  And  what's  more,  it  is  pleasant  to 
taste.    Lambert  Pharmacal  Co. 


The   safe   antiseptic  that  is   pleasant  to  taste 


lr 


Bull 


THE  Garbo  her  real  friends  know!  A  waggish  little  smile 
breaking  through  the  white  mask  that  usually  hides  her 
dreams,  unharried  by  picture  woes,  rested  after  a  night's  sleep 
unbroken  by  her  chronic  insomnia.  She's  happy!  Ever  see  any 
thing  more  charming? 


IT  took  a  brief  but  fascinating  flash  of  stage  success  on  Broadway 
to  teach  Hollywood  producers  what  a  fine  actress  little  Lois 
Moran  really  is.  No  dull  ingenue  roles  for  her  any  more — she's 
sound  star  material!  Here,  Lois  is  smiling  her  way  through 
Columbia's  new  "Men  in  Her  Life" 


Phyfe 


SHE  has  the  alluring  flash  of  foreign  mystery  that  audiences 
love — this  dashing  girl  called  Elissa  Landi.  Born  of  royal 
Austrian  blood,  married  to  an  Englishman,  winning  stage  fame  in 
London  and  picture  triumphs  in  America — what  drama  has  been 
crammed  into  her  twenty-seven  years! 


Dyar 


CAMERA  poise  was  probably  invented  by  the  calm  and 
collected  Mr.  Clive  Brook — and  that  elegant  English  voice 
plays  sweet  tunes  on  feminine  heart-strings.  Contained,  cool  and 
every  inch  the  gentlemanly  trouper,  Mr.  Brook  now  labors  on  a 
picture  called  "Husband's  Holiday'' 


thfidCMARDLneoPB 


The  photograph  shows  a  new  MisSimplicity  model  of 
super-Royal  Batiste  and  fine  lace,  with  hip  panels  of 
Gossard's  improved  Charmosette  elastic.  This  new 
weave  is  lighter  and  much  more  supple  than  formerly, 
yet  it  retains  its  famous  slenderizing  quality.  Bulgy 
hips  simply  haven't  a  chance  against  this  marvelous 
elastic!  The  diagonal  pull  of  Mis  Simplicity's  converg- 
ing waistline  straps  raises  the  bust,  slenderizes 
the  waist  and  smooths  away  the  diaphragm  and 
abdomen  flesh  ...  A  foundation  garment  that  wil 
make  the  new  clothes  look  as  if  they  were  designed 
for  you!  .  .  .  Model  8468. 


Sim  plicit 


*Reg.U.S.Pat.Oi 
(Pat.Appl.  For) 


M  and  ^APMOSETTE 


"Exclusive  with  Qossard 
Reg.U.S.Pat.Oif. 


TheH.W.GossardCo.,  Division  of  Associated  Apparel  Industries,  Inc.,  Chicago,  NewYork,  San  Francisco,  Dallas,  Atlanta,  London,  Toronto,  Sydney,  Buenos  Aires 


.. 


I    FELT   AS   IF  THEY    WERE 


^   ^^r  "But  the  very  next  morning  Jack's 

mother  told  me  how  she  kept  her 
hands  so  beautifully  cared  for  through 
years  of  housekeeping. 


"How  horridly  red  a 
few  weeks  of  dishwashing 
had  left  them",  .  . 

"I  just  love  being  a  bride  and  having 
a  little  house  of  my  own  to  care  for! 
But  dear  knows  I  don't  want  to  look 
like  a  drudge. 

"So  I  was  perfectly  horror-struck — 
we  were  giving  our  first  party  and 
they  all  begged  me  to  play — when  I 
had  a  really  good  look  at  my  HANDS! 
Against  the  white  keyboard  they 
looked  rough  and  red — utterly  hid- 
eous! I  felt  as  if  everybody  were  star- 
ing right  at  them. 


Mother  G—  's  Hint 

'I  always  use  LUX  for  dishes 
and  other  soap-and-water  tasks,' 
she  said.  'So  many  soaps,  you 
know,  dry  up  the  natural  oils  of 
the  skin.  That's  why  your  hands 
get  so  rough  and  chapped  look- 
ing. But  Lux  is  wonderful  for  the 
hands,  and  it's  inexpensive.' 

"I  could  bless  Mother  G — for 
that  beauty  hint!  Just  a  few  Lux 
dishwashings  made  my  hands 
snow-white  and  satiny  again." 

Beauty  Experts 
The  experienced  experts  in  305  fa- 


mous beauty  shops  advise  Lux  as  the 
best  beauty  treatment  for  hands  busy 
with  housewifely  doings.  Do  try  it 
yourself.  Those  beautiful  Lux  bub- 
bles— so  enticing  to  look  at — are  sheer 
joy  to  sensitive  skin!  They  fairly 
caress  one's  hands  into  loveliness! 


The  big  package  of  Lux  does  six  weeks' 
dishes,  thereby  bringing  the  cost  down  to 
less  than  1  cent  a  day!    Such  a  tiny  cost! 


LUX  FOR  DISHES  •••  -Jb>elf  JianA  fix.  /W  tA<w  1* a  tLy 


November,  1931 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots 


By 
James  R.  Quirk 


DISGUISING  myself  as  a  Javanese 
priest,   I  got  past  the  platoon  of 
grenadiers   guarding  the  secret 
showing  of  Doug   Fairbanks'   sensational 
six-reel  revelation  of  his  Oriental  adven- 
tures during  his  recent  trip.     Just   as   I 
stumbled  my  way  through  the  darkness  to 
a  seat,  stepping  on  the  toes  of  six  music 
composers  who  were  scoring  the  picture, 
Doug,   unarmed,   was   chasing   a   tiger   through   the 
jungle,  tearing  a  hunter  right  from  out  of  his  foaming 
jaws.     Then,  coining  to  grips  with  the  huge  cat,  he 
choked  him  to  death  with  his  bare  hands. 

Forgetting  my  disguise  in  the  excitement  I  leaned 
over  to  one  of  the  music  fellows  and  whispered,  "Say, 
Doug  isn't  going  to  try  to  put  that  over  on  us,  is  he? 
Has  he  gone  plumb  nuts?" 

Just  at  that  moment  the  scene  changed.  And 
before  the  composer  had  a  chance  to  reply  I  felt  so 
cheap  I  changed  my  seat  in  the  darkness. 

I  cannot  tell  the  rest.  Javanese  priests  don't  tell  all 
they  know. 

If  you  try  to  keep  a  boy  away  from  that  picture 
you're  just  encouraging  disobedience. 


THEY  tell  a  lot  of  stories  about  the  adventures  of 
celebrated  writers  in  Hollywood,  some  of  them 
true.    But  here  is  one  I  witnessed. 

A  few  days  before  the  associate  producer,  very  self- 
satisfied  with  himself  as  a  section  boss  of  the  studio 
writers,  told  the  new  arrival  from  Xew  York: 

"Put  all  that  junk  you've  been  telling  me  in  writ- 
ing. And  say,  get  it  in  tomorrow  early.  Get  me 
something  on  paper  so  I'll  know  where  you're  going." 

Next  morning  in  walked  the  writer,  and  laid  a  long, 
narrow  slip  of  paper  on  the  desk. 

"That's  where  I'm  going,"  he  said. 

The  paper  was  a  ticket  to  New  York. 


THE  most  devastating  remark  I  have 
heard  in  Hollywood  came  from  Will 
Rogers,  who  greeted  a  dialogue  writer  on 
the  Fox  lot  with,  "Well,  what  are  you 
spoiling  now?" 


"F  I  'HE  Spirit  of  Notre  Dame,"  in  which 
JL  J.  Farrell  MacDonald  takes  the  part 
of  the  late  Knute  Rockne,  just  missed  the  presses  for 
the  Reviews  Department  of  Photoplay  this  month. 
It's  one  of  the  best  of  this  or  any  other  month.  The 
great  Carideo,  the  Four  Horsemen,  and  Lew  Ayres  are 
splendid.    Put  this  down  on  your  "must  see"  list. 


THE  same  Michael  Farmer,  Irish  millionaire  and 
playboy,  who  came  over  from  Europe  on  the  same 
boat  with  Gloria  Swanson,  was,  only  a  year  ago, 
positively  gurgling  about  Marilyn  Miller.  As  a  token 
of  his  admiration  and  affection,  he  gave  her  in  London 
a  beautiful  diamond  that  went  the  limit  of  good  taste 
in  size. 

During  a  spat  one  night,  the  dainty  star  tried  to 
return  the  ring.  He  wouldn't  accept  it,  and  she  threw 
it  on  the  sidewalk  before  him  and  rushed  into  the 
hotel.     Michael  bad  dashed  off  in  his  car. 

When  she  got  upstairs  to  her  apartment,  she  thought 
of  that  gleaming  precious  stone  lying  there  so  lonely, 
and  dashed  right  out  again. 

And  the  strange  part  of  it  is  that  the  ring  was  still 
there,  unseen  by  hundreds  of  passers-by. 


TWO  supervisors  who  recently  moved  from  one 
studio,  where  they  were  credited  with  some  joint 
success,  to  another,  where  in  three  months  they 
haven't  given  the  slightest  indication  of  ability,  are 
now  known  as  Hem  and  Haw. 

27 


The  Secret  Wedding  of 


mmm. 


MARY  ASTOR  was  married  on  June  29, 
1931,  to  Dr.  Franklyn  Thorpe,  celebrated- 
Los  Angeles  physician  and  specialist. 
At  the  time  this  story  is  written,  no  one 
knows  of  this  marriage  except  the  servants  of  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Thorpe.  Not  even  the  judge  in  Yuma,  Arizona, 
knows  who  the  young  couple  was  that  he  married  on 
that  sizzling  afternoon,  one  of  the;  hottest  of  the 
early  summer. 

"Lucille  Langhanke  Hawks"  and  "Franklyn  Thorpe" 
meant  nothing  to  siesta-resting  Yuma. 

But  even  if  the  reporters  had  been  on  the  streets 
instead  of  taking  their  siestas,  I  doubt  if  they  would 
have  recognized  her.  Her  glorious  auburn  hair  was 
sleeked  back  into  a  tight  knot  and  covered  by  a  non- 
descript felt  which  we,  in  Hollywood,  describe,  a  la 
Garbol 

Her  graceful,  Venus-proportioned  figure,  which  you 
are  accustomed  to  see  in  svelte  evening  gowns  or  rid- 
ing habits  in  pictures,  looked  like  any  other  slim 
woman's  body  beneath  the  striped  linen  dress  with 
low-cut  arm  holes  as  its  only  distinguishing  feature. 

No!  I  doubt  if  there  was  a  reporter  in  Yuma  who 
would  have  suspected  that  this  stenographer-looking 
young  woman  with  the  casual  sounding  name  of 
Lucille  Langhanke  Hawks  was  one  of  Hollywood's 
highest-paid  representatives  of  glamour. 

As  for  the  man — just  another  Los  Angeles  doctor 
eloping  with  one  of  his  patients.  That  was  the  judge's 
guess.  And  he  was  right.  His  only  error  was  his 
failure  to  recognize  the  patient. 

When  Kenneth  Hawks  died  Mary  was  playing  in  the 
legitimate  show,  "Among  the  Married."  But  you 
know  that  story.  When  they  brought  her  the  news  of 
that  fearful  aeroplane  accident  and  the  tragic  death 
of  her  director-husband,  Mary  collapsed.  Any  woman 
would  have  done  that.  But  Mary's  collapse  lasted. 
Lasted  until  a  great  specialist  said  she  must  retire 
for  two  years  into  a  sanitarium. 

BUT  Mary  couldn't  retire  for  two  years.  She  didn't 
have  the  money.  You  see,  there  was  no  life  insurance 
and  very  few  savings.  After  all,  Mary  and  Kenneth 
were  really  just  beginning  in  the  very  big  money. 
And  they  had  spent  the  smaller  sums  to  promote 
themselves  to  the  larger.    A  very  old  Hollywood  story. 

"I  can't  give  up  for  two  years;  I  can't  go  away — " 
she  told  the  doctor. 

"It  is  your  choice.     Complete  rest  or  death — " 

Mary  preferred  death;  in  fact,  death  during  those 
first  horrible  months  was  more  welcome  than  life  to 
her.     She  admits  it. 

Lee  Tracy,  the  clever  screen  and  stage  actor,  was  a 
personal  friend  of  Dr.  Thorpe's;  he  was  a  personal 
friend  of  Mary's. 

"Please  see  him,  Mary.  I  know  he's  a  specialist  in 
another  line  but  he's  got  a  wonderful  mind.  You  need 
more  than  medicine.  He  would  understand  your 
problem  and  help  you.    Please — see  him." 

For  days  Lee  pleaded;  for  days  Mary,  who  distrusted 
all  doctors,  refused  to  see  him.  But  as  the  days  wore 
on  and  she  got  thinner  and  thinner;  as  the  small  savings 
grew  thinner,  also,  she  lost  interest  in  the  battle.  "If 
you  want  me  to  see  him  that  badly,  go  get  him,  Lee," 
she  consented. 

Lee  brought  him.  And  Dr.  Thorpe,  true  to  the  ethics  of 
his  profession,  said  the  case  was  not  for  him  and  called  in 
another  specialist  who  was  an  expert  on  the  wasting-away  of 
nervously-wrought  men  and  women. 

The  verdict  was  the  same.      Two  years  in  a  sanitarium. 

28 


Mary  Astor,  ill  and  heartbroken,  did  not  care  to  live.  Kind- 
ness, understanding,  were  the  medicine  that  cured  her. 
Thence  grew  a  mutual  sympathy.  And  so  she  and  the  hand- 
some physician  were  married.  Just  the  reverse  of  the  old 
story  of  the  grateful  patient  who  fell  in  love  with  and  mar- 
ried his  beautiful  nurse 


Mary  As  tor    By  Ruth  Biery 


An  exclusive  and  ro- 
mantic story  of  the 
physician  so  lucky  as 
to  win  the  love  of  his 
beautiful  patient 


Mary  promised  to  do  exactly  as  she  was  told  if  this 
man  could  bring  health  back  to  her  without  a  sanita- 
rium; if  he  would  let  her  work  and  earn  some  money. 

Now,  Dr.  Thorpe  did  not  specialize  in  those  who 
were  inviting  tuberculosis  by  loss  of  desire  to  live. 
But  he  did  know  the  psychology  of  women  who  suffer 
in  mind  and  body.     He  studied  Mary. 

"He  cured  me  through  sympathy  and  understand- 
ing," says  Mary.  "Oh,  his  darkened  room  andhisflat- 
on-my-back  policy;  his  milk  diet  and  all  the  other 
professional  things  helped  but  it  was  his  kindness,  his 
willingness  to  listen  to  my  troubles  any  moment  of 
the  day  or  the  night  which  cured. 

"He  made  me  want  to  get  well  and  that  was  ninety 
per  cent  of  the  battle. 

"I  was  alone  in  the  Hacienda  Apartments.  He  was 
a  good  listener.  And  what  I  needed  most  then  was 
someone  who  would  listen  and  help  me  mentally. 


T 


And  Mary's  answer  was  the  same.  Death  was  her  choice 
as  it  had  been  in  the  beginning. 

But  Lee  Tracy  was  persistent.  "Could  you  cure  her  at  home, 
Dr.  Thorpe?" 

"I  might  if  she  did  exactly  as  I  order.  It's  not  mv  business 
but  since  she  refuses  to  obey  doctors  who  make  it  theirs — '' 


O  him  I  was  just  an  interesting  case. 

"Gradually  I  snapped  out  of  that  mental  lethargy. 
In  eight  weeks  I  was  back  at  work.  'Holiday'  came 
like  a  reward  for  the  hell  of  mental  depression  from 
which  I  had  been  suffering.  It  made  me  appreciate 
life  so  I  could  put  some  of  that  appreciation  into  my 
acting!  I  was  a  new  woman  in  the  heart;  I  was — 
so  they  tell  me — a  new  woman  on  the  screen.  My 
RKO  contract  followed. 

"But  I  was  still  going  to  bed  at  eight  o'clock.  Only, 
by  this  time,  I  was  able  to  go  to  the  doctor's  office. 
Twice  a  week  for  check-ups;  so  he  could  see  whether 
I  was  over-taxing  my  energy — both  physical  and 
mental. 

"I  can't  tell  you  where  love  began.  He  says  he 
couldn't  tell  you  either.  One  day  he  asked  me  to  dine 
with  him;  another  he  took  me  to  luncheon.  I  had 
become  so  accustomed  to  pouring  my  entire  heart  out  to 
him;  he  had  become  so  accustomed  to  taking  care  of 
me — 

"Gradually  we  began  to  understand  that  our  relation- 
ship had  grown  into  something  deeper  than  that  which 
exists  between  a  physician  and  patient.  We  both 
realized  it — not  as  a  grand  passion  or  love-at-lirst 
sight  but  as  a  growth  from  some  deep,  mutual  under- 
standing. 

"We  didn't  really  plan  our  marriage  as  a  deep 
secret.  We  did  not  wish  a  fanfare  of  publicity  about 
it.  The  world  might  view  a  second  marriage  from  a 
sensational  angle;  Kenneth's  death  had  been  so  sensa- 
tional and  so  tragic.  If  we  could  avoid  all  that  news- 
paper notoriety  for  a  while — we  preferred  it.  We  couldn't  in 
Los  Angeles.  During  that  three  days  of  waiting  for  permission 
to  wed,  reporters  were  certain  to  learn  it.  So,  one  morning,  we 
just  drove  to  Yuma  and  said  nothing  about  it.  The  heat 
and  the  siesta  hour  were  in  our  favor.  Back  in  Hollywood, 
we  just  said  nothing  about  it!     [  PLEASE  TURN  to  page  102  ] 

29 


Don't  Go  Platinum 

Yet!  Read  before  you  Dye! 


By    May    Allerton 

LISTEN  carefully,  you  girls 
who  have  gazed  in  wonder- 
ment, perhaps  tinged  with  a 

touch  of  envy,  at  the  glistening  white  locks  of  Jean 
Harlow  and  other  stars  and  players  of  the  screen. 

Wait,  all  you  thousands  of  girls  who  have  written  Photoplay 
that  you  are  considering  going  the  limit  in  light  coloring  and 
asking  for  information  about  "platinum  blonde." 

You  are  going  to  get  that  information  here  and  now,  every 
enlightening  and  every  bitter  fact. 

Then,  if  you  must  go  platinum,  be  it  upon  your  own  head. 
It  will  be  anyhow.  But  do  not  say  that  Photoplay  did  not 
warn  vou. 


Jean  Harlow  started  the  fad, 
for  fad  it  is,  in  "Hell's  Angels." 
In  that  picture  she  played  the 
role  of  a  seductive,  irresistible 
charmer  before  whom  men  fell 
as  if  they  were  mown  down  by 
a  machine  gun. 

Capitalizing  on  the  public  in- 
terest in  the  girl  in  that  role, 
producers  vied  with  each  other 
to  cast  her  in  similar  roles  in 
other  pictures;  always  the 
platinum  bullet  that  shattered 
masculine  life  and  honor;  the 
epitome  of  sex  appeal  in  the 
parts  she  played,  the  clothes 
she  wore. 

It  was  natural,  therefore, 
that  the  startlingly  white  hair 
should  be  taken  as  a  symbol  of 
devastating  femininity. 

It  is  not  the  first  time  in  motion  picture  history  that  a  dis- 
tinctive style  of  hair  became  of  world-wide  interest.  Nearly 
two  score  years  ago  Irene  Castle's  motion  pictures  sent  millions 
of  girls  scurrying  into  the  hair  dressing  parlors  of  the  world  to 
have  their  long  locks  shorn  to  a  short  bob.  Garbo's  longish 
bob,  reaching  to  the  shoulder,  and  curled  on  the  end,  cost  hair- 
dressers millions  of  dollars,  when  old  and  young  alike  permitted 
their  hair  to  grow  again. 

EVEN  men  were  not  immune  to  the  screen  influence.  Valen- 
tino's sleek  hair,  brushed  straight  back,  and  glistening  with 
pomade,  made  millions  of  dollars  for  the  manufacturers  of 
men's  hair  dressings,  and  created  the  "sheik"  type,  adding  a 
new  meaning  to  the  word  in  our  language. 

Although  Jean  Harlow  started  the  fad  you  cannot  blame 
her  for  it.  She  is  a  natural  blonde  of  the  lightest  type.  The 
platinum  coloring  of  her  hair  gives  it  life  and  vibrancy  when 
struck  by  the  incandescent  lamps,  and  its  photographic  effect 
is  so  startling  that  several  stars  have  made  use  of  it. 

Joan  Crawford  used  something  like  it  in  "This  Modern 
Age,"  but  discarded  it,  and  permitted  her  hair  to  regain  its 
natural  coloring.  Lola  Lane  (now  Mrs.  Lew  Ayres)  is  one 
screen  beauty  who  frankly  admits  she  has  gone  platinum. 
Her  hair  was  naturally  a  very  light  brown,  but  she  found 
that  the  platinum  color  softened  the  hair  line  on  her  forehead 
and  gave  her  a  better  screen  result. 

The  best  hairdressers  of  New  York  and  Hollywood,  as 
well  as  cities  in  other  sections  of  the  country,  report  that 
thousands  and  thousands  of  women,  young  and  old,  have  come 
into  their  establishments  intent  on  becoming  platinum  blondes, 

In  nearly  every  case  these  women  have  been  warned  that, 

30 


Here  is  the  stark  truth  about 
the  new  fad.  PHOTOPLAY 
warns  its  readers  that  it  is 
suitable  to  only  one  woman 
in  a  thousand,  and,  inexpertly 
done,  is  a  hazardous  proceed- 
ing which  may  be  followed 
by  the  keenest  regret 


except  for  one  woman  in  a  thou- 
sand, it  is  a  hazardous  proceeding 
which  may  be  followed  by  regret, 
and  even  disastrous  results.     Inexpertly  done,  it  can  result  in 
complete,  if  temporary,  baldness. 

The  majority  of  reputable  beauty  shop  proprietors  and 
operators  positively  refuse  to  attempt  it  except  for  those 
with  hair  so  light  in  coloring  that  it  requires  little  extra  bleach- 
ing. 

In  its  effort  to  learn  all  there  was  to  be  learned  about 
platinum  hair  Photoplay  representatives  interviewed  thirty 
of  the  best  and  most  reputable  hairdressers  of  New  York, 

Chicago  and  Hollywood. 

We  learned  details  that  will 
make  your  hair  stand  on  end. 
"Platinum  blonde"  is  really 
almost  white  hair  with  a  faint 
blueish-lavender  tint.  The 
effect  is  secured  by  a  thorough 
bleaching  of  the  hair  in  a  treat- 
ment that  may  last  four  or 
five  hours,  a  whole  day,  or  even 
longer,  depending  on  how  dark 
the  hair  is  to  begin  with.  Extra 
strength  peroxide,  with  a  few 
drops  of  strong  ammonia 
added,  is  applied  to  the  hair 
and  allowed  to  dry.  This  is 
repeated  over  and  over  until 
every  bit  of  color  is  extracted 
from  the  hair. 

Some  beauty  shops  mix  the 
peroxide  and  ammonia  into  a 
white  paste  which  contains 
magnesium  and  this  is  called  a  "white  henna,"  but  it's  the  per- 
oxide and  ammonia  which  do  the  bleaching.  Making  a  paste 
out  of  it  is  merely  to  prevent  the  bleach  from  running,  and  is 
effective  when  "touching  up"  the  roots  of  the  hair  later  on. 
A  preparation  made  by  the  dye  manufacturers  is  also  used  for 
bleaching  in  many  shops. 

After  the  hair  has  been  thoroughly  bleached,  the  platinum 
rinse  is  applied  as  the  finishing  touch.  This  rinse  is  a  definite 
dye,  just  as  much  so  as  a  dye  used  for  black  or  brown  hair. 
Simply  taking  the  color  out  of  the  hair  does  not  make  a 
platinum  blonde.  If  this  were  true,  every  woman  with  snow- 
white  hair  would  be  platinum.  Nor  does  just  a  rinse  of 
simple  French  blueing  do  the  work. 

THERE  is  danger  and  even  physical  suffering  if  you  get  an 
operator  who  does  not  understand  exactly  what  is  to  be  done. 
If  the  scalp  is  sensitive,  the  pain  is  excruciating  when  the 
bleach  is  applied.  This  does  not  last  long,  however,  unless 
there  is  a  scalp  abrasion.    Then  the  results  might  be  serious. 

All  this  sounds  discouraging,  doesn't  it?  That's  just  what 
we  intended  it  to  be.     But  you  haven't  heard  anything  yet. 

There's  a  little  matter  of  upkeep  I  want  to  mention. 

The  cost  of  the  original  platinum  process,  followed  by  the 
necessary  shampoo  and  wave,  will  be  anywhere  from  $7.50  to 
$50,  depending  on  the  color  of  the  hair  to  start,  and  the 
exclusiveness  of  the  shop  doing  the  work.  That  pretty  item, 
however,  is  only  the  beginning  of  weekly  expenditures  to  keep 
your  platinum  head  looking  well  groomed. 

Unless  the  hair  is  very  light  to  start  with,  it  will  need  a 
"touch  up"  once  a  week  or  the  roots  will  begin  to  look  dark. 
"Touch  ups"  vary  in  different    [  please  turn  to  page  100  ] 


She    Started 
It  All 


JEAN  HARLOW  is  responsible  for  the 
J  Platinum  Blonde  vogue.  Beauty  special- 
ists warn  women  in  this  issue  that  only 
those  gifted  with  her  naturally  light  color- 
ing, transparent  skin,  white  teeth,  should 
consider  it.  Next  month  Photoplay's  cover 
will  show  the  exact  color  of  platinum  hair 


SI 


HOT-CHA-CHA  and  whoopee!  Lupe  and  Larry— and 
are  they  a  team?  The  maddest,  gayest  set  on  the 
M-G-M  lot.  Lupe  Velez  and  Lawrence  Tibbett  are  play- 
ing together  in  "The  Cuban,"  with  old  "Trader"  Van 
Dyke,  who  took  a  troupe  into  darkest  Africa,  directing 


Stagg 


UPE  is  the  dancing  and  singing  girl  in  a  Havana 
-^cabaret  and  Larry  is  a  big  marine  who  casts  that 
sort  of  eyes  her  way.  Jimmy  Durante  is  also  in  it. 
What  a  picture  it  should  be!  Music,  romance, 
comedy.  Everything's  hot  on  this  set— even  the  camera ! 


S3 


Photographs  by  Hal  Phyfe 


"  C  ALLY,"  says  James  Dunn  to  the  little  Eilers 
^darling  who  shared  the  big  hit  in  "Bad  Girl," 
"looks  as  though  we  put  it  over.  Now  let  'em 
bring  on  the  big  parts  for  us,  the  fatter  and  tougher 
the  better."    We  say  "Attaboy,  Jim!" 


Jimmie 

HATES 

Sandwiches 


The  newest  screen  sensa- 
tion tried  to  get  rich 
quick,  but  a  gal  ran  away 
with  his  roll,  and  now 
look  at  him 


HE'S  a  big  hit  in  the  movies  now — one  of  those  over- 
night stardom  crashers.  He  and  Sally  Eilers  in  "Bad 
Girl"  knocked  the  box-office  receipts  sky-high.  But 
it  isn't  so  long  ago  that  he  nearly  starved  to  death. 

It  was  while  he  was  selling  lunch  wagons  around  New  York 
on  a  commission  basis  that  he  didn't  have  enough  money  to  buy 
himself  a  sandwich. 

Now  he  can  eat  ten  meals  a  day  if  he  wants  to  and  hates  the 
sight  of  ham  sandwiches  and  crullers. 

His  salary  these  past  few  months  has  been  two  hundred  and 
fifty  dollars  weekly.  It  will  be  doubled  soon;  then  doubled 
again.  He's  bought  a  Buick  car,  brought  his  mother  from  New 
York  City,  paid  up  all  his  past  debts  and  is  ready  now  to  settle 
down  and  save  some  real  money. 

And  he'll  save  it — with  the  astuteness  of  one  who  has  been 
without  money  and  therefore  realizes  it's  a  good  friend  to  stick 
to. 

Father  Dunn  was  a  speculator;  he's  made  three  fortunes  in 
rapid  succession  and  lost  them  even  more  quickly  than  he  made 
them.    Wall  Street;  pools;  corners,  etc. 

Only-child  Jimmie  was  almost  through  High  School  when 
father  lost  his  first  big  gamble.  He  was  fifteen;  he  became  an 
office  boy  in  an  automobile  company.  Then  he  chalked  up 
numbers  in  a  broker's  office.  Selling  automobiles  came  next. 
Only  they  didn't  sell,  so  he  tried  lunch  wagons.  They  sold  so 
well  that  he  saved  more  than  ten  thousand  dollars. 

"That  was  an  accident,"  he  says.  "I  was  making  a  great 
deal  or  I  couldn't  have  done  it.  I  was  spending  so  much  on 
myself — and  a  girl — " 

In  fact,  he  was  spending  so  much  on  running  around  and 
finding  out  the  secrets  of  life — sowing  his  wild  oats,  I  believe  a 
novelist  would  call  it — that  he  decided  to  make  a  big  fortune  on 
what  little  was  left  of  that  ten  thousand  dollars.  He  put  it 
on  stock  and  in  ten  minutes  was  poorer  than  his  father! 

And  as  though  fate  had  decided  to  teach  him  a  lesson  in  one 
big  experience,  the  lunch  wagons  stopped  selling.    He  was  down 
to — his  fear  of  bending  over  and  tempt- 
ing the  strength  of  his  trousers. 

One  day  he  was  sitting  in  a  Chinese  T>  J 

restaurant    with    Peggy.      No,    Peggy         -LJ  J/    U  €  (X  fl 


Here's  Jimmie,  pride  of  the  House  of  Dunn — the 

good  boy  who  was  so  sensational  in  "Bad  Girl" 

that  we  all  saw  a  new  star  in  the  sky  the  night  that 

picture  opened 


wasn't  the  one  who  helped  spend  the  money.  That  damsel  had 
disappeared  when  the  ten  thousand  went.  Peggy  was  leading 
lady  in  obscure  picture  serials.  She  suggested  that  Paramount 
could  use  another  extra. 

"I've  tried  everything,"  he  answered,  "I  might  as  well  trv 
that." 

Enough  to  prevent  starvation;  then  the  Eastern  studio  closed 
and  moved  to  Hollywood.  James  couldn't  come.  He  didn't 
have  carfare. 

Peggy  telephoned  and  suggested  he  try  for  a  part  in  "The 
Night  Stick"  on  the  Amsterdam  Roof.  They  turned  him  down. 
He  descended  in  the  elevator,  ran  into  Johnny  Wray,  the 
author,  waiting  to  enter  the  same  elevator.  Wray  took  one 
look,  said,  "Did  they  turn  vou  down  for  that  part?" 

"Yes." 

"Come  back  with  me!" 

Who  said  it  must  be  the  moment  plus  the  man? 

GOOD  money  for  a  while.  Then  no  engagements;  no  money. 
A  year  ago  Christmas  he  was  in  Pittsburgh  with  exactly  fifty 
dollars.  He  dropped  into  a  gambling  place  called  "The  Show- 
boat" and  won  three  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  in  ten  minutes. 
He  quit.  And  he  hasn't  gambled  since  for  more  than  twenty 
dollars. 

"And  I  won't."     His  lips  draw  into  a  straight  line  which 

makes  him  look  a  bit  bitter.    "There  is  no  such  thing  as  easy 

money.    You  have  to  work  for  it  in  the  long  run — that  is,  if  you 

are  to  have  a  normal,  healthy  life.     I've  seen  too  much  of  the 

other  in  my  own  family.    My  mother  hadn't  had  a  real  home  in 

three  years.    When  I  got  a  test  with  Fox  and  they  gave  me  this 

chance,  the  first  thing  I  did  was  to  send 

for  her.    I've  had  nothing  but  restaurant 

-j  A  7 '  .  71         food  for  years.  They  can't  drag  me  from 

//  t      i  V  0  l   I  fl  [  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  118] 

35 


Must  They  Be  Selfish 


Robert  Woolsey  and  Bert  Wheeler  thought  up  friendly  and  funny  gags 
all  through  Europe,  but  one  never  let  the  other  get  the  best  of  it  pub- 
licly.   Yet  they're  pals 


Hollywood  stars  may 
be  the  best  of  friends 
when  they're  away 
from  the  studio — but 
before  the  camera  it's 
another  story 

By  Frances  Denton 


A  WRITER  (not  this  one)  had  an  assignment  to  write 
a  story  on  Ronald  Colman.  He  could  discover  no  new 
angle  so  he  decided  to  appeal  to  William  Powell — 
Colman's    closest    friend. 

"Please  tell  me  something  about  Mr.  Colman  which  has 
never  been  printed,"  he  began  across  the  luncheon  table.  "You 
must  know  many  anecdotes.  Of  course,  I  will  use  you  in  the 
story  so  it  will  mean  publicity  for  you,  too!" 

Powell  jumped  to  his  feet,  nearly  upsetting  the  table.  What 
he  said  may  have  been  okay  coming  from  the  lips  of  a  virile 
gentleman  but  it  would  never  do  for  us  to  print! 

The  writer  gasped.  "  But  I  thought  he's  your  best  friend — " 
he  stammered  as  soon  as  Powell  paused  for  a  moment. 

"Certainly  he  is.  But  he's  a  star,  too!  You  are  the  third 
writer  who  has  asked  me  about  him.  If  I  get  myself  into  his 
stories,  I'll  just  be  playing  second — " 

To  make  it  short,  William  Powell  absolutely  refused  to  take 
second  billing  to  one  of  the  most  intimate  friends  he  has  in  the 
world. 

At  first  glance  this  looks  cruel,  heartless  and  selfish.  To 
refuse  to  talk  of  a  crony,  to  oppose  saying  a  kind  word  of  the 

36 


pal  with  whom  one  slips  off  fishing  or  hunting 
or  boating  on  every  possible  occasion;  to 
object  to  boosting  a  friend  with  whom  one 
plays  tennis  almost  daily — 

And  yet,  in  Hollywood  vernacular,  Powell's 
attitude  was  merely  good  business.  He 
summed  it  all  up  when  he  said:  "Ronald 
Colman  is  my  personal  friend  but  he  is  my 
professional  rival." 

We  are  ail  professional  rivals  in  this  busi- 
ness. Our  friendships,  real  friendships,  are 
rare  because  of  this  work-a-day  competition. 
William  Powell  and  Ronald  Colman  are  to  be 
congratulated  because  they  can  befriends  away 
from  their  business. 

THERE  are  really  few  among  us  big  enough 
to  be  able  to  refuse  "second  billing"  to  a  pro- 
fessional rival  and  then  play  a  game  of  tennis 
with  the  one  we  have  thus  spurned.  That 
these  two  men  remain  friends  is  what  causes 
the  wonderment  in  Hollywood — not  that  they 
refuse  to  extend  the  glad  hand  to  each  other. 
To  an  outsider  peeping  through  Holly- 
wood's glass  windows,  our  people  must  often 
look  as  though  the  golden  rule  were  unknown 
to  them.  Yet  they  follow  it — from  the  profes- 
sional angle.  "Do  unto  others  as  you  would 
have  others  do  unto  you."  William  Powell 
did  unto  Ronald  Colman  exactly  as  he  would 
to    do    unto    him.      He   protected    his   own 


■: 


• 


expect '  Ronald 
interests. 

Richard  Barthelmess  is  the  third  member,  as  you  know,  of 
this  triumvirate  of  friendship.  "The  Three  Musketeers," 
Hollywood  calls  them.  Barthelmess,  personally,  is  one  of  the 
kindest  men  we  have  in  the  industry  but  professionally  he  is 
ultra  careful. 

Eric  Arnold  died  the  same  sort  of  death  in  "The  Big  Parade" 
that  Raymond  Griffith  did  in  "All  Quiet  on  the  Western 
Front."  Perhaps  you  remember  the  good-looking  chap  who 
tore  your  hearts  so  capably.  Hollywood  said,  "He'll  be  a  star 
in  a  year.    Watch  this  boy  Eric." 

He  was  getting  good  parts,  too,  when  he  was  cast  for  an 
excellent  role  in  Barthelmess'  "The  Amateur  Gentleman." 
"There's  the  part!  Watch  this  boy  after  he's  finished  this 
picture."  -~' 

Arnold  fitted  his  wardrobe;  studied  his  part.  Oh,  yes,  they 
studied  for  their  roles  even  in  the  days  of  silents.  He  reported 
for  work  the  first  morning  only  to  be  told  he  had  been  replaced 
by  John  Miljan.  He  demanded  an  explanation.  "Your  eyes 
photograph  too  light,"  an  assistant  director  told  him.     "But 


To  Win  Screen  Fame? 


ty  eyes   photographed   okay   before,"   he   stuttered. 

And  so  strange,  and  so  cruel,  is  our  city  that  when 
le  word  went  out  that  he  had  been  dropped  from  this 
art  he  never  secured  another  which  meant  an  up-grade 
ush  on  the  ladder. 

A  year  later  he  met  the  assistant  director.  "What 
as  really  the  trouble?"  he  pleaded. 

"You  photographed  too  young.  You  made  Barthel- 
less  look  too  old.  They  put  Miljan  in  for  that 
:ason." 

Barthelmess  had  no  intention  of  hurting  another 
:tor  but  he  had  every  intention  of  protecting  himself, 
[e'd  fought  long  and  hard  for  his  eight-thousand- 
ollar-a-week  position.  He  was  not  old-looking,  but 
i  comparison  with  a  young  boy — after  all,  Barthelmess 
as  the  hero  of  the  production;  he  could  run  no  risk  (or 
is  company  could  run  no  risks  for  him)  of  a  com- 
arison  which  might  make  him  look  older  than  he  was! 

Dick  is  not  selling  bonds  or  automobiles  or  mer- 
landise.    He  is  peddling  just  one  thing — the  Barthel- 
less  personality.    He  must  protect  that  personality 
5  every  one  else  in  Hollywood  protects  his.    And 

is  the  actor  who  protects  personality  the 
tost  shrewdly,  the  most  selfishly,  if  you 
refer,  who  remains  an  actor! 

In  fact,  when  we  come  right  down  to 
rass  tacks  and  look  at  this  weird 
usiness,  the  only  one  in  the  world 
hich  deals  with  personality  as  a 
jmmodity,  and  personality  only, 
e  cannot  blame  Constance  Ben- 
ett  for  being  selfish.     If  letting 
nita  Page  wear  make-up  in  "The 
asiest  Way"  at  M-G-M  would 
etract  from  la  Bennett's  screen 
otentialities,  Connie  should  fight 
)  keep  Anita  Page  from  wearing 
.     The  Bennett  personality  has 
o  other  insurance  against  com- 
etition  except  self-assurance. 

3  UT  there  are  ways  and  ways  of 
^handling  this  business  of  being 
:lfish.  There  is  the  way  of  being 
ictful  and  the  way  of  being  nasty, 
ivelyn  Brent,  in  spite  of  her  in- 
ependence,  was  really  tactful 
hen  she  was  making  "The  Mad  _    ,      _ 

arade,"     that     all-woman     war  Evelyn  Brent  go t 

.  '  Mad  Parade"  and 

iciure.  scenes. 

Betty  secured  June  Clyde  her 


William  Powell  and  Ronald  Colman  are  real  buddies, 
but  Bill  wants  his  own  publicity 


In  Richard  Barthelmess'  "Ama- 
teur Gentleman"  John  Miljan 
(right)  played  the  part  to  which 
a  younger  actor  wa  s  first  assigned 


role  in  that  part — the  first  role 
of  importance  June  had  played 
since  she  left  the  Radio  roster. 
Yet  Betty,  interested  as  she  was 
personally  in  dainty  little  June, 
was  determined  that  June  should 
take  no  scenes  from  her. 

Betty  played  a  hard-boiled 
woman — one  who  took  June's 
man  without  qualm  of  conscience 
according  to  the  script.  There 
was  a  big  scene  between  the  two. 
June  was  in  tears,  pleading — 
weeping  for  this  woman  to  spurn 
the  man  whom  June  had  loved 
since  childhood.  Betty  was  sup- 
posed to  remain  coldly  indiffer- 
ent, hard-hearted  to  the  end. 

But,  when  they  shot  the  scene, 
Betty  realized  June  was  doing 
such  a  beautiful  job  of  acting 
that  she  would  get  all  the  sym- 
pathy.     The    audience    would 
either  forget  hard-hearted  Betty  or  hate  her.    Betty  unbent  and 
allowed  herself  to  weep  a  little.    Stole  a  little  of  June's  stuff,  to 
put  it  in  bald-faced  language. 

The  director  ordered  a  retake,  telling  Betty  of  her  error. 
Each  time  Betty  spoiled  the  take.  When  she  found  she  wasn't 
allowed  to  cry,  she  managed  to  make  some  error.  She  forgot 
her  lines;  she  moved  in  the  wrong  way;  she  made  other  technical 
mistakes. 

NOW,  it  is  difficult  to  do  an  emotional  scene  over  and  over. 
Each  time  you  do  it,  you  lose  some  of  the  spontaneity  of  the 
action.  Your  make-up  becomes  spotty;  your  temper  unruly. 
But  if  Betty  could  make  her  little  pal  June  less  effective,  the 
audience  would  give  her  less  attention.  Finally  the  director 
snapped  at  her,  "We'll  use  this  take  no  matter  what  you  do, 
Betty!" 

And  Betty  unbent,  became  a  trifle  sorry  she  was  taking  this 
girl's  man  from  her! 

When  I  asked  June  about  it,  she  smiled:  "I  don't  blame 
Betty.  It  was  hard,  of  course.  But  it  was  Betty's  picture. 
She  was  the  star.  It  was  her  business  to  protect  her  interests 
but  it  was  my  business  to  protect  [  please  turn  to  page  1 23  ] 

37 


June  Clyde  her  role  in  "The 
then  did  her  best  to  steal  her 
It's  only  Hollywood 


Here,   Girls,   Are   Screen   Clothes 


Millions  of  women  will  flock  to  the  film,  "The  Greeks 
Had  a  Word  for  It,"  to  see  the  gorgeous  clothes 
designed  by  Gabrielle  Chanel,  whom  Samuel  Gold- 
wyn  brought  from  Paris  to  create  styles  for  his  stars. 
Here,  on  the  right,  is  Madge  Evans  in  a  tailored  suit 
of  green  soft  velour  cloth.  It  features  a  form-fitting, 
single  breasted  jacket,  and  vide  cavalier  cuffs 


Zowie!  When  you  see  this  superb  ensemble 
(left)  of  black  velvet  and  black  lace  (worn  by 
Ina  Claire)  on  the  screen,  you've  seen  style  that 
is  style.  The  peplum,  vestee,  and  cuffs  of  lace 
on  this  velvet  suit  are  sensational.  The  snappy 
beaver  hat  (below)  covers  one  eye.  The 
coquettish  band  holding  it  in  place  demands 
the  longer  hairdress 


1 


i 


Start  Something! 


Exclusive    Fashion 

Photographs   by 
Kenneth   Alexander 


Chanel's  piece  de  resistance,  in  beige  wool, 
worn  by  Miss  Claire.  Gaze  upon  those  daring 
double-fold  cuffs,  lined  with  white  pique ;  then 
note  the  matching  folds  down  the  front  of  the 
frock  and  the  high  neckline.  The  knitted 
tam-style  hat  and  the  bag  are  of  different 
material  but  match  the  soft  beige  of  the  dress. 
Our  bet  is  a  thousand  to  one  that  this  outfit 
will  be  widely  copied.  If  this  producer  keeps 
up  this  style  speed  his  pictures  will  be  world 
premieres    of    advance    fashions 


This  suit,  worn  by  Joan  Blondell,  is  in  two- 
toned  heavy  silk;  the  skirt  dark  brown, 
the  coat  of  beige  with  buttons  and  stitching  to 
match  the  skirt.  Note  the  long  shoulder  line. 
The  pocketbook,  shoes  and  hat  are  also  brown. 
That    Fisher    fur    does    look    a    little    skimpy 


First  You  See  These  Gold wyn-Chanel 


YOU  may  see  these  styles  later 
in  other  publications,  but,  as 
usual,  you  find  the  genuine  Hol- 
lywood news,  style  and  other- 
wise, first  in  Photoplay. 

Ina  Claire,  assisted  by  Joan 
Blondell,  the  champion  picture- 
stealer  of  Hollywood,  and  Madge 
Evans,  just  a  few  years  ago  a 
child  actress,  will  soon  show  you 
how  three  beautiful  gold-digging 
charmers  go  about  their  work. 
Samuel  Goldwyn,  who  is  produc- 
ing for  United  Artists,  while  in 
Paris  induced  Gabrielle  Chanel 
to  come  to  Hollywood  to  create 
style  for  Gloria  Swanson,  Ina 
Claire  and  his  other  stars. 

These  styles  have  been  care- 
fully guarded  from  the  gaze  of 
American  designers  lest  they  be 
copied  before  they  reached  the 
screen.  Gloria,  on  her  recent 
return  trip  from  abroad,  did  not 
dare  wear  one  of  them  on  the 
steamship,  appearing  only  in 
sports  clothes.  You  will  see  the 
new  clothes  designed  for  her  in 
"  Tonight  or  Never,"  now  in  pro- 
duction. 


Chanel's  newest  trick  in  jewelry 
is  to  avoid  wearing  it  around  the 
neck.  Wear  it  as  a  trimming  on 
the  neckline  of  your  frock,  if  you 
dress  as  Joan  Blondell  does 


Ah!  Two  ahs!  Cast  your  eyes 
over  Ina  Claire's  luscious  blue 
satin  pajama  outfit  and  hope  that 
Santa  Claus  will  bring  you  one  for 
Christmas.  It  is  undoubtedly  the 
smartest  thing  that  has  been 
created  to  date.  Chanel  says 
pajamas  for  evening  wear  are 
abominable,  but  she  knows  how 
to  make  them  alluring  for  the 
boudoir.  Cut  on  the  bias,  one's 
figure  must  be  well  nigh  perfect 
to  wear  this 


Si 

is 

1)01 

It, 


Styles  Here— then  See  Them  on  the  Screen 


ia  Claire's  cream-colored  satin 
nit  is  lavishly  trimmed  in  beige 
ipin  and  harks  back  a  genera- 
on,  as  do  many  of  the  newest 
leas.  Aside  from  the  form-fitting 
icket,  the  barrel  sleeve  and  very 
igh  neckline,  the  most  interesting 
ling  about  this  creation  is  the 
Jngth  of  the  skirt.  Chanel  de- 
rees  that  the  length  of  street 
kirts  may  be  adapted  to  individual 
roportions.  The  rakish  hat  (at 
ight)  with  the  new  side  tilt  is  of 
cream  colored  velour 


This  suit  of  light-weight  woolen 
material  must  have  been  Chanel's 
favorite.  In  it  she  combines 
practicability  and  style,  youth  and 
charm.  Two  pockets  in  a  circular 
skirt,  a  peplum  that  flares  ever  so 
little,  a  high-necked  beige  linen 
blouse  and  a  bowler  hat  of  blue 
felt  is  about  as  dashing  an  outfit 
as  a  girl  could  pray  for.  Add  to 
this  a  red  leather  belt  and  red 
buttons  on  your  blouse — and  who 
could  resist  you? 

11 


THE  happy  smiles  that  light  up  the  faces  of  Lew  Ayres  and 
Lola  Lane  mean  something!  They  are  honeymoon  grins! 
For  the  troubled  romance  of  Lew  and  Lola  stopped  jangling,  and 
culminated  in  the  merry  chime  of  wedding  bells.  Tiffs  mean 
nothing  when  all  comes  out  right.     So  good  luck,  Lew  and  Lola ! 


42 


So  They  Were  Married 


WELL,  they  up 
and  married, 
did    Lew 

Ayres    and    Lola    Lane — after    as    troublous 
tremulous  a  romance  as  moon-mad  Hollywood  has  seen. 

And  it  looked,  for  a  long  time,  as  though  the  mating  would 
never  come  off.  Only  twenty-two,  both  those  youngsters — and 
the  woes  and  misunderstandings  of  young  love  loom  large  and 
formidable  at  that  age. 

But  they  married,  and  are  happy — and  here  for  the  first  time 
is  the  complete  love  story  of  Lola  and  Lew — and  may  the 
marriage  be  as  euphonious  as  their  names! 

"I  would  rather  be  Mrs.  Lew  Ayres  than  the  greatest  actress 
in  the  world,"  declared  Lola,  one  day. 

"  Fame — money — mean  nothing  to  me  unless  I  have  Lola 
Lane  to  share  them  with,"  vowed  Lew,  the  same  day. 

But  Lola  was  packing  her  trunks.  She  would  soon  be  on  her 
way  to  the  New  York  stage. 

And  Lew  was  piling  up  fame  and  money  as  he  worked  long 
hours  before  the  camera. 

Lew  appeared  at  the  Embassy  roof  garden  escorting  a  blonde. 
She  was  not  Lola  Lane.     Lola  was  seen  at  a  fashionable  airport 
club  with  a  famous  young  producer.  She  said  noth- 
ing.    But  Hollywood  thought  that  actions 
sometimes  spoke  louder  than  words. 

Hollywood  shook  its   head.     "Too 
bad.      I   guess   that   romance   is   all 
washed  up." 

Lola  herself  believed  this  to  be  the 
end. 

And  the  tragedy  of  it  all  was  that 
she  still  loved  Lew. 

Lew  thought  finis  had  been 
written  with  indelible  ink. 

The  pity  of  it  was  that  he  still 
loved  Lola. 

While  Lola  was  packing  her 
trunks,  Lew  was  walking  along  the 
trail  that  led  from  his  house  far 
back  into  the  Hollywood  hills.  Lew 
always  walked  in  the  hills  when  he 
was  troubled. 

He  was  trying  to  figure  out  why 
he  and  Lola  couldn't  get  along.  He 


By    Rilla    Page    P  a  Imborg 


and      and  farther  over   the   narrow   trail 


can't  she  understand?" 
The  words  pounded  as 
Lew  kept  walking  farther 
that    led    into    the    hills. 


loved  her. 
about  that. 


There  was  no  doubt 


NO,  it  wasn't  Lola  Lane  he 
loved.  It  was  that  rollicking, 
mischievous,  adorable  Irish  minx, 
Dorothy  Mulligan. 

But  how  ridiculous!  Dorothy 
Mulligan  and  Lola  Lane  were  the 
same  girl.  Lola  Lane  was  only  the 
stage  name  Gus  Edwards  had 
given  Dorothy  Mulligan  when  she 
sang  and  danced  her  way  into  his 
New  York  musical  revue,  some  five 
years  ago. 

But  were  they  the  same  girls? 

The  sparkling,  witty,  sophisti- 
cated Lola  who  gleamed  like  a  flash- 
ing diamond  in  any  gay  gathering, 
was  irritating.  Her  quick,  easy 
friendliness  was  annoying. 

Evenings  with  Lola  Lane  often 
ended  with  harsh  words  and  some- 
times tears. 

Blonde,  blue-eyed  Dorothy,  with 
her  sweet,  thoughtful  ways,  was 
quite  another  person.  Dorothy's 
lovable,  laughing  friendliness 
glowed  like  the  soft  warmth  from  a 
steady  light. 

"  Lola  doesn't  understand!  Whv 


How's  this  for  a  peek  at  domestic  bliss?  Lew 

Ayres  and  Lola  Lane    gathered  for  a  quiet 

evening  at  the  old  family  fireside 


LOLA,  eyes  red  and  swollen  from  weeping,  was  throwing  a 
heap  of  lovely  silk  and  velvet  gowns  into  her  trunk. 
What  did  it  matter  if  they  were  a  crumpled  mess!    Nothing 
mattered!    Everything  was  wrong! 

She  sank  back  on  her  bed  among  the  soft  pile  of  lace  and  silk. 
Her  mind  kept  going  round  and  round  in  a  circle.     She 
couldn't  understand  Lew.     One  day  he  was  sweet  and  under- 
standing.    The  next  he  was  hard  and  cold:  a  stranger  she  did 
not  know. 

She  lay  with  eyes  closed  recalling  that  first  night  when  she 
fell  in  love  with  him.    For  it  was  love  at  first  sight. 

She  was  sitting  in  a  darkened  theater,  holding  hands  with  a 
young  director  whom  she  thought  she  loved.  He  squeezed  her 
fingers  when  "All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front"  flashed  on  the 
screen. 

The  picture  held  her  right  from  the  start.     When  Lew  ap- 
peared she  caught  her  breath  and  quickly  drew  her  hand  away 
from  her  escort. 

"Something  gripped  me  right  here,"  she  said, 
laying  her  hand  on  her  heart.     "That  face! 
Those  eyes!    That  smile! 

"Something  wonderful  seemed  to  reach 

out  to  me  from  nowhere. 

"That  night  I  went  to  sleep  hoping  I 

could  meet  Lew  Ayres  and  praying 

that  if  I  did  he  would  be  like  the 

boy  in  the  picture  and  not  just 

another  leading  man. 

"A  few  days  later  I  was  hurrying 
into  the  Brown  Derby  to  keep  a 
luncheon  engagement. 

"  My  heart  came  up  in  my  throat 
when  I  saw  Lew  Ayres  seated  at  a 
table  next  to  mine. 

"He  was  sitting  with  a  director 
whom  I  knew.  This  man  came 
over  to  me  saying  that  Lew  wanted 
to  meet  me.  He  asked  if  he  could 
bring  him  over  to  my  table. 

"And  then  Lew  was  sitting  be- 
side me  asking  me  for  a  dinner  date 
and  writing  my  address  in  his  little 
book.  I  didn't  keep  him  wait- 
ing a  minute  when  he  drove  up  in 
his  car  that  night. 

WE  dined  at  the  Roosevelt 
hotel.  Our  first  dance  to- 
gether was  to  the  same  refrain  Lew 
and  Lily  Damita  danced  to  on  that 
very  same  dance  floor  the  night 
Lewis  Milestone,  the  director  of 
'AH  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front,' 
first  saw  Lew.  It  was  after  watch- 
ing him  circle  the  polished  dancing 
square  that  Mr.  Milestone  decided 
Lew  was  the  young  man  he  wanted 
for  the  part  of  the  boy. 

"While  we  were  dancing  Lew 
whispered — 'Something  big  is  going 
to  happen  to  both  of  us — dancing 
again  to  this  same  refrain!' 

"After  a  few  dances  we  drove 
high  up  on  a  hill  overlooking  the 
twinkling  lights  of  Hollywood.  I 
was  disgusted  with  Lew  when  he 
tried  to  kiss  me. 

"Just  another  leading  man,  I 
thought,  as  he  took  me  home." 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  104] 

43 


^L                       ^^^^ 

1  ^^^w 

' 

"Heigho,  New  York!"  says 
Sylvia  Sidney,  home  on  a  fly- 
ing visit  after  her  picture  hits 
in  "Street  Scene"  and  "An 
American  Tragedy."  And 
"Whoopee  for  you,  Sylvie!" 
says  Gotham,  right  back 


WHEN  Greta  Garbo  and  Clark  Gable 
started  "The  Fall  and  Rise  of  Susan 
Lenox"  they  were  reported  by 
others  who  worked  in  the  production  to  be 
most  enthusiastic  about  each  other.  They 
chatted  between  scenes,  gave  professional 
credit  to  each  other,  etc.  Things  were  quite 
chummy. 

But  when  the  retakes  came,  again,  accord- 
ing to  reports  of  others  on  the  picture,  they 
recognized  one  another  with  a  cool  "good 
morning."  No  chumminess;  just  casualness. 
Now,  we  wonder  if  one  stole  a  scene — or 
what  happened ! 

T  INDA  WATKINS,  of  the  stage,  is  playing 
•'-'her  first  important  role  in  pictures  with 
Jimmie  Dunn  in  "Sob  Sister." 

Linda  has  a  deep  laugh  which  resounds  to 
the  farthest  corners  of  even  the  huge  sound 
stages.  And  she  is  likely  to  laugh  at  any 
moment. 

How  to  tone  down  that  laugh?  Director  Al 
Santell  believes  that  gags  teach  better  lessons 
than  lectures. 

One  day  when  Linda  came  on  the  set,  she 
let  out  her  usual  "roar." 

A  prop  boy  threw  her  a  live  fish  from  a  pail 
of  water.  In  a  few  moments,  she  let  out  an- 
other.    A  second  fish  was  tossed  to  her. 

"When  they  sound  like  a  seal,  treat  'em  like 
one,"  the  director  told  her. 

u 


Mr.  Brown  proudly  presents  Miss  Brown,  latest  addition  to  the  family 

of  Joe  E.     It  is  obvious  that  the  lady  is  camera-struck,  as  she  is 

taking  the  lens  very  big,  and  her  hair  is  on  end.    Miss  Brown  seems 

to  have  left  her  wardrobe  in  the  dressing-room 

C  a  1  Yo  r  k 


Gf 


HpHAT  long,  tall  boy  from  Montana  has  shed 
-^  the  sombrero,  the  neckerchief,  the  chaps 
and  lariat  for  spats,  cane  and  derby.  Well, 
almost.  Gary  Cooper  is  a  big  New  York 
success.  In  Hollywood  he  was  just  a  nice 
kid — a  little  shy,  a  little  gauche  and  more  than 
a  little  tongue-tied.  But  something's  happened 
to  him.  In  New  York  he's  just  that  smart  and 
tosses  off  a  wisecrack  with  every  cup  of — er — 
tea. 

MARY  PICKFORD  answered  the 
report  that  she  would  retire  from 
the  screen,  briefly  and  decisively.  "I 
simply  couldn't  retire  now  and  leave 
'Kiki'  as  my  last  picture." 

JIMMY  DURANTE,  that  irresistible  fun 
J  maker  who  almost  stole  "Get-Rich-Quick 
Wallingford"  from  Bill  Haines,  and  is  now 
playing  in  the  Lawrence  Tibbett  picture,  "The 


Cuban,"  was  sitting  in  the  corner  of  the  set 
studying  what  looked  to  be  music. 

"What  are  you  doing,  Jimmy?"  somebody 
asked. 

"They  asked  me  to  learn  all  of  Tibbett's 
songs  so  if  his  voice  should  go  back  on  him,  I 
can  sing  them!" 

He  whirled  on  Lupe  Velez  who  was  standing 
by  sneaking  a  few  pulls  from  a  cigarette. 
"My  dear  Miss  Velez,  please  stop  smoking. 
You  know  it  is  forbidden  on  this  set.  My 
voice,  my  dear.    My  voice." 

Watch  Durante!  He  is  one  of  the  greatest 
natural  comedians  in  the  world  and  will  be  a 
star  soon. 

TNSIDE  STUFF  FROM  THE  BOY  WITH 
J-THE  ARROW!  .  .  .  Gloria  Swanson  and 
Michael  Farmer  to  marry  when  she's  finalled, 
rumor  still  has  it.  .  .  .  Young  Russell  Gleason 
and  Mary  Brian.  .  .  .  When  you  read  this 


International 


Still  another  Hollywood  baby,  and  this  one  is  bored  limp  with  pictures 

already!    "Oh  dear  me,  just   another   cameraman!"    yawns  Mary 

Esther  Webb,  nestling  close  to  mamma  Esther  Ralston.    Papa  George 

Webb,  back  of  the  camera,  makes  faces  for  daughter 

The  Monthly  Broadcast 

of 

Hollywood 
Goings-On/ 


Rita  LaRoy  will  be  Mrs.  Hershfield,  unless 
.  .  .  Grant  Withers — Loretta  Young  divorce 
granted.  .  .  .  Eddie  Quillan  and  Maureen 
O'Sullivan  stepping  out  together  .  .  .  and 
Sidney  Fox  and  Eddie  Buzzell  .  .  .  The  Rex 
Leases  finally  go  for  a  decree  .  .  .  after  re- 
peated partings  and  reconciliations  .  .  .  she 
says  he  haha-ed  her  study  of  philosophy  .  .  . 
his  own  was  Omar  Khayyam's  about  the  jug 
o'  wine,  she  adds  .  .  .  and  he  was  too  quarrel- 
some. .  .  .  Don  Alvarado  and  Mrs.  Don 
Alvarado  living  apart  .  .  .  she  at  the  Alvarado 
home,  he  at  the  Athletic  Club  .  .  .  say  they 
won't  get  a  divorce,  though  .  .  .  and  Don 
is  seen  very,  very  much,  these  days  and  nights, 
squiring  Marilyn  Miller  about  Hollywood's 
where-to-goes. 

"\yf-G-M  plans,  as  this  is  written,  to  put  into 
•"1-the  cast  of  "Grand  Hotel"  not  one  but 
FOUR  stars! — Greta  Garbo,  Joan  Crawford, 


John  Gilbert,  Clark  Gable.  And  perhaps  even 
other  star  names  will  be  added. 

Well,  if  they  don't  have  to  call  out  the 
militia  on  THAT  set,  and  give  the  director  a 
suit  of  armor  to  wear,  it'll  merely  be  because 
stars  ain't  what  they  uster  be. 

But  boy-oh-boy,  what  a  grand  hypodermic 
shot  of  adrenalin  that  picture  will  be  for  the 
gasping  ol'  box-office! 

AT  last!  Cecil  B.  De  Mille,  tour- 
ing Europe,  found  the  man  in  a 
remote  hamlet  far  back  in  Germany's 
hinterland. 

What  man?    Why  .  .  . 

"I  asked  a  man,"  wrote  De  Mille 
to  a  Hollywood  friend,  "if  he  liked 
Greta  Garbo,  and  he  replied  he  had 
never  tasted  it." 

De  Mille  adds  the  town  has  no 
moving  pictures. 


International 


Hollywood  is  cheering  up! 
Marion  Davies  is  home,  after 
a  long  European  holiday,  and 
more  famous  and  delightful 
Davies  parties  are  in  prospect. 
And  Marion  seems  to  have 
cornered  the  orchid  market 


(""•OXGRATULATIOXS,  Warner  Baxter. 
^-*and  a  low  bow  from  the  waist!  Warner  is 
now  head  fan  mail  receiver  on  the  Fox  lot. 
More  letters  come  to  him  than  to  Janet 
Gaynor.  Janet  is  first  among  the  ladies,  how- 
ever. But  Elissa  Landi  is  running  her  a  close 
second.  Which  shows  what  publicity  can  do. 
Elissa  has  had  wagon  loads  of  press  notices 
but  very  few  pictures. 

And  Charlie  Farrell  has  dropped  behind. 
Way  behind.  Which  may  only  be  temporary 
or  it  may  be  because  Charlie  got  married  and 
the  gals  feel  there  isn't  much  use  writing  to  him. 

T\  7HENEVER  a  lad  gets  a  big  break,  every- 
»»  bocly  in  Hollywood  starts  remembering 
him  when.  .  .  .  All  of  a  sudden  dozens  of 
Clark  Gable  yarns  are  spinning  up  and  down 
the  boulevard  like  tops.  And  there  is  plenty 
of  Gable  legend,  for  the  guy  was  knocked 
around  the  old  village  for  that  long. 

Maybe  Schulberg,  head  man  at  Paramount, 
would  like  a  nice  new  gun  to  blow  his  own 
brains  out.  He  had  a  chance  at  Gable,  too. 
His  secretary  saw  pictures  of  the  lad  (presented 
by  his  manager,  Josephine  Dillon,  whom  he 
later  married,  but  who  isn't  the  present  Mrs. 
G).  The  secretary  liked  his  looks  and  begged 
Schulberg  to  give  Clark  a  chance.  Schulberg 
consented  to  let  him  play  Alice  Joyce's  brother 
in  "White  Man."  When  he  saw  the  rushes  he 
threatened  to  fire  the  secretary. 


45 


Love!   Marriage!   Divorce!   Laughter!  Tears! 


Lovelier  than  ever,  and  happy 
about  her  concert  success  in 
Europe,  Doris  Kenyon,  widow 
of  the  beloved  Milton  Sills, 
comes  home  from  a  trip  abroad. 
Frankly,  now,  was  Gorgeous 
Doris  ever  a  mite  prettier? 


A  T  last  Greta  Garbo  has  a  picture  which 
-**-she  wants  to  make.  And  I  honestly  be- 
lieve it  is  the  first  about  which  she  has  been 
truly  enthusiastic.  Usually  the  studio  has 
persuaded  her  to  make  them  against  her  better 
judgment  and  she  has  admitted  to  her  few 
close  friends  when  they  were  completed  that 
she  hates  them. 

But  Mata  Hari — the  famous  spy — has  al- 
ways intrigued  the  mysterious  Garbo.  And  the 
picture  has  been  designed  from  artistic  as  well 
as  story  angles.  For  example,  a  Javanese 
temple  is  being  reproduced  in  one  of  the 
largest  sets  ever  erected  in  Hollywood.  Here 
the  spy  dances.  Will  Greta  actually  dance  or 
will  there  be  a  double?  Probably  the  latter. 
Camera  tricks  are  being  employed  for  that 
number.  You  don't  actually  see  the  girl  re- 
move her  clothes  but  you  know  she's  taken 
them  off ! 

Then  there's  the  scene  where  the  entire  room 
is  dark.  The  light  from  two  cigarettes  alone 
indicates  the  action.  It's  a  love  scene  between 
Greta  and  Ramon  Novarro  who  is  being  co- 
starred  with  her.  The  romantic  Ramon  and 
subtle  Greta  making  love  with  only  lighted 
cigarettes  to  trace  their  movements — Doesn't 
your  spine  quiver? 

Garbo  is  quoted  as  saying  she  likes  this 
because  it  introduces  true  European  realism 
which  she  has  admittedly  missed  in  her  former 
productions. 

PRIZE  title  change  of  the  year: 
Warner  Brothers  began  a  rail- 
road  picture  on  the   working  title: 
"The  Steel  Highway." 

When  it  came  out,  it  was:  "Other 
Men's  Women." 
Ah,  me  .  .  .  ! 

SHE'S  a  brave  woman,  Esther  Ralston,  or  so 
the    feminine    portion    of    Hollywood    has 
decided. 

She  permitted  herself  to  gain  sixty-five 
pounds  before  her  little  girl  was  born  and 
everyone  is  thinking  of  the  difficult  job  ahead 
of  her — that  of  reducing  to  camera  size  before 


she  may  continue  her  interrupted  picture 
career. 

Incidentally,  Esther  revealed  that  she  had 
turned  down  S  100,000  in  movie  contracts  so  as 
to  stay  at  home  for  a  half  year  to  care  for  the 
new  arrival. 

C^LARA  BOW  walked  into  the  publicity  de- 
^--'partment  of  Paramount,  her  old  studio 
home,  during  a  recent  visit  to  Hollywood  from 
the  Rex  Bell  ranch. 

"And  are  you  going  to  Universal  or  Metro, 
Clara?  We  hear  they've  all  been  making  you 
offers." 

Clara  shook  her  head.  "I  don't  think  I'm 
going  anywhere.  Why  should  I?  Up  there  on 
the  ranch  you  buy  a  cow  for  forty  dollars  and 
in  a  few  weeks  it  has  a  calf  and  you've  doubled 
your  money!" 

Rather  optimistic  ranch  financing  and  a  new 
angle  to  Clara's  retirement! 

DID  you  know  that  Clara  Bow's 
present  boy  friend  is  George  F. 
Beldam  ? 

Now    don't    get    excited.     That's 
Rex  Bell's  real  name. 

A  ND  now  they've  decided  to  make  Ruth 
■*»-Chatterton  the  pure  little  gal  in  her  last 
Paramount  picture. 

She  was  supposed  to  be  a  not-perfect  woman, 
speaking  morally,  in  "Once  A  Lady."  And 
then  the  executives  got  worried.  Bad  women 
were  not  going  over  so  hot  with  the  censors. 
When  the  picture  was  well  under  way  they 
demanded  the  script  changed  to  make  Ruth 
not  so  bad.  Ruth  balked.  She  wanted  a  good 
story. 

To  change  the  script  in  the  middle  of  pro- 
duction— !     There  was  a  battle. 

"Okay!"  exclaimed  the  execs.  "We'll  make 
it  both  ways.    Then  we'll  take  the  better." 

Now,  we  wonder,  will  Ruth  be  just  a  little 
bad  or  a  lot  bad  when  we  finally  see  her  next 
picture! 


WHAT  did  Kathryn  Crawford  do  to  lose 
ten  pounds  in  seven  days?  Wouldn't  you 
like  to  know?  Well,  gather  'round  and  hear 
the  big  secret.  She  registered  at  a  Hollywood 
hospital  and  went  to  bed.  She  took  two  glasses 
of  orange  juice  a  day  while  a  trained  nurse  and 
a  doctor  watched  her  pulse  and  her  blood 
pressure.  When  she  returned  to  demand  her 
part  in  "  Flying  High"  exactly  seven  days 
later  (promised  if  she  lost  the  ten)  the  nurse 
went  with  her  and  was  on  the  set  during  the 
making  of  the  entire  picture. 

When  Kathryn  became  hungry  the  nurse 
poured  a  mixture  of  fruit  and  vegetable  juices 
from  a  thermos  bottle. 

Kathryn  lost  the  weight  but  she  doesn't 
recommend  the  diet  unless  the  doctor  and  the 
nurse  are  added  attractions. 

ONE  of  the  songs  Estelle  Taylor 
includes  in  her  repertoire  for  her 
vaudeville  tour  is  entitled : 
"How  I  Miss  That  Man!" 

"DILLIE  DOVE'S  prematurely  graying  hair 
■'-'excites  much  comment  these  days.  It 
photographs  like  an  ash  blonde  and  in  no  way 
detracts  from  her  loveliness  off  the  screen. 

DID  you  know  that,  between  other  jobs, 
Clark  Gable  was  an  accountant  for  the 
Firestone  Company  in  Akron,  Ohio,  in  1918? 
And  that  he  has  twelve  books  on  the  table  of 
his  new  dressing  room  at  Metro?  Eight  of 
them  are  poetry.  We  peeped  between  the 
covers  and  they're  thumb  worn  and  many 
passages  are  heavily  underscored.  He  reads 
them! 

HOLLYWOOD  HEART  BEATS  .  .  . 
Charlie  Farrell  and  Virginia  Valli  go  on 
yachting  trips  .  .  .  and  who  do  you  suppose 
are  their  boat-guests?  .  .  .  Janet  Gaynor  and 
Lydell  Peck  .  .  .  and  how  they  must  laugh 
and  laugh  and  laugh  .  .  .  and  laugh.  .  .  . 
Mrs.  Rudy  Vallee  back  in  Hollywood,  where 


Exclusive  picture  of  young  man  taming  wild  and  raging  cornet! 
Mr.  Charles  Buddy  Rogers,  soon  to  take  the  trail  as  proprietor 
and  head  footer  of  a  jazz  band,  gets  in  a  little  key-bugle  practice, 
accompanied  by  his  player-piano.  Mr.  Rogers  reports  that  the 
player-piano  hits  few  sour  notes 


W 


Hollywood  Life  is  Stranger  than  Pictures! 


she  used  to  be  Fay  Webb  .  .  .  and  all  the  boys 
that  knew  her  when!  .  .  .  she  says  she'll  go 
out  with  them,  too.  .  .  .  "Rudy  won't  mind. 
We  understand  each  other.  He's  not  jealous." 
.  .  .  She  says  he  does  NOT  croon  to  her  at 
home  .  .  .  well,  that  gives  them  a  chance. 

MAE  CLARKE  and  Henry  Froelich  make  no 
secret  of  the  fact  they  plan  to  be  married 
as  soon  as  Mae's  divorce  becomes  final  in  the 
early  summer. 

Who  is  Froelich?  One  of  the  best  camera- 
men in  the  business.  And  here's  the  human 
interest:  He  was  Colleen  Moore's  cameraman 
and  before  Mae  became  engaged  to  him  she 
was  engaged  to  John  McCormick,  Colleen's 
first  husband. 

It  was  Colleen's  first  husband  who  introduced 
Colleen's  cameraman  to  Mae. 

WHILE  Joan  Bennett  was  in  the  hospital, 
recovering  from  the  broken  leg  she 
suffered  in  a  riding  accident,  she  was  being 
attended  regularly  by  a  manicurist. 

One  evening,  going  out  of  the  hospital  after 
polishing  Joan's  nails,  the  manicurist  slipped, 
fell  and  fractured  three  vertebrae. 
They  gave  her  a  room  next  to  Joan's. 

JOAN  is  planning  a  party  for  the  day 
her  doctor  orders  her  plaster  cast 
taken  off.  Then  all  her  friends  will 
be  asked  to  autograph  the  cast. 

"People  have  statuary  all  over 
their  houses.  Why  can't  I  have  one 
of  my  torso?"  says  Joan. 

TOAN  CRAWFORD  has  chestnut  brown  hair 
•'again.  She  stopped  being  a  blonde  the 
moment  the  studio  put  the  final  okay  on  "This 
Modern  Age"  and  she  was  positive  there  would 
be  no  more  retakes  for  it. 

Joan  hated  those  platinum  locks.  She  went 
light  for  "Laughing  Sinners"  and  "This 
Modern  Age."  And  if  she  has  her  way  she'll 
never  do  it  again ! 


MARIE  DRESSLER  was  the  first,  I  believe, 
to  insist  that  one  star  couldn't  make  a 
picture — that  it  takes  an  entire  cast  of  excellent 
players.  She  has  insisted  over  at  Metro  that 
she  would  rather  be  in  a  small  part  in  a  good 
picture  than  a  star  with  a  lot  of  unknown 
players. 

Metro  must  have  listened  to  Marie.  For  the 
first  time  in  their  history  they  are  matching 
their  best  players — putting  two  or  more  stars 
in  one  production  rather  than  expecting  each 
star  to  sell  separate  productions. 

Greta  Garbo  and  Ramon  Novarro — two  who 
have  always  been  expected  to  sell  separate 
productions.    Picture:  "Life  of  Mata  Hari." 

Wallace  Beery  and  Jackie  Cooper.  Both  top 
notchers.    Picture:  "The  Champ." 

Norma  Shearer  and  Robert  Montgomery. 
Oh,  yes,  Bob  is  a  star  now  and  nol  the  leading 
man  for  Shearer.    Picture:  "Private  Lives." 

T>  OBERT  WILLIAMS  got  a  big  hand  for 
-t^-his  work  in  "Devotion"  with  Ann  Harding 
at  the  Los  Angeles  formal,  five  dollar  a  night 
opening.  So  big  that  the  house  clamored  for 
a  bow  and  a  curtain  speech. 

Robert  demurred  but  finally  went  to  the 
stage. 

He  was  obviously  fluttered.  "I — I  certainly 
enjoyed  making  this  picture  with  Constance 
Bennett,"  he  began. 

Credit  is  due  to  Ann  Harding  for  laughing  as 
loudly  as  any. 

RUTH  CHATTERTON  is  one  ac- 
tress who  does  NOT  dye  her  hair 
for  picture  roles.    She  uses  wigs. 

T  OVE  AND  SUCH  THINGS  .  .  .  John 
■•-'Marion  Fox,  Joan  Bennett's  ex-hubby,  is  an 
ex-hubby  again  .  .  .  wife  No.  2,  Mrs.  Polly 
Perkins  Fox,  divorced  him  in  Seattle.  .  .  . 
The  Paul  Whitemans  (Margaret  Livingston) 
honeymooned  in  Hollywood.  .  .  .  The  Jimmy 
Gleasons  celebrated  their  silver  wedding.  .  .  . 
The  Jack  Gilbert-Marjorie  King  romance  is 


Wide  World 


The  girls  help  out,  and  prove  they  can  draw  coffee  as  well  as  crowds 
of  movie  fans.  Here  you  see  Marian  Nixon  and  Sally  "Bad  Girl" 
Eilers,  Hoot  Gibson's  pretty /rau,  acting  as  waitresses  for  the  Holly- 
wood Assistance  League.  Well,  they  can  assist  us  to  sinkers  and 
java  any  time  at  all ! 


Buster,  famous  actor  in  Metro 
dog  comedies,  or  barkies,  gets 
some  mail.  An  Australian  fan 
magazine  sends  him  his  pub- 
lished picture,  addressed  to 
"Buster,  Dog  Actor,"  at  the  old 
home  studios 


off.  .  .  .  Ronald  Colman  is  tossing  those  burn 
'em  up  glances  in  Thelma  Todd's  direction  .  .  . 
and  he's  known  her  all  these  years.  .  .  .  They 
are  dusting  off  the  church  aisle  for  writer 
Carey  Wilson  and  Carmelita  Geraghty. 

THE  movie  scenario  writer  will  soon  have  to 
take  all  those  big  romantic  scenes  out  of 
gardens  silvered  by  moonlight  and  put  them 
on  passenger  trains.  Connie  and  the  Marquis 
crossed  the  continent  together.  Gloria  Swan- 
son  and  Michael  Farmer  were  together  on  the 
train  from  New  York  to  Hollywood.  And  now 
Lily  Damita. 

Willie  Vanderbilt,  Jr.,  was  on  the  same  boat 
with  her  when  she  arrived  in  New  York,  but 
millionaire  Sidney  Smith  (she  denied  her  en- 
gagement to  him)  was  on  the  train  with  her 
from  New  York  to  Chicago  and  on  to  Holly- 
wood. 

And  when  she  got  off  at  the  Chicago  station 
there  was  Prince  Louis  Ferdinand  Hohen- 
zollern,  son  of  the  former  Crown  Prince  of 
Germany,  to  meet  her.  A  smart  photographer 
snapped  their  pictures  together.  And,  when 
the  prince  offered  to  buy  the  plate — "because 
it  would  be  most  embarrassing  if  the  picture 
were  published" — but  was  refused,  Lily 
countered  by  posing  and  posing  in  hopes 
there'd  be  a  better  negative.  However,  we 
bet  it's  a  good  one. 

CONNIE  BENNETT  took  refuge  in  wise- 
cracking, when  Hollywood  reporters  be- 
sieged her,  on  her  return  from  Paris,  with 
questions  about  the  Marquis — 

"Oh,  you  see,"  Connie  giggled,  "I  married 

him  in  Paris  and  we  now  have  two  children 

who  are  following  us  on  a  fast  freight  and  that's 

all  I  care  to  say  on  that  at  the  present  time." 

P.  S. — The  children  never  arrived. 

KAY  FRANCIS  wears  an  old-fashioned  wide 
gold  wedding  ring.      She   takes  it  off  for 
pictures.    She  has  to. 

But  hubby  Kenneth  KacKenna  understands 
that;  he's  in  the  same  business. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  82  ] 


-47 


The  Extra-Private 


Noted  Hollywood 
lock-picker  and  tran- 
som-peeker  reveals 
what  famous  "Legs" 
does  with  her  days 
—  and  nights! 


By  Leonard  (Old  Snoop)  Hall 


MARLENE  DIETRICH  is  essentially  a  "home  girl." 
The  famous  German  star,  shy  and  retiring  in 
company,  which  she  seldom  is  in,  said  today,  "I 
am  happiest  among  my  kiddie.  Also  among  my 
hubby  and  my  book.  I  am  also  extremely  happy  among 
my  sauce-pan.  Ach,  you  should  taste  my  pfann-kuchen  und 
kartojfcl-salat.  Also,  my  strudel.  I  am  very,  very  happy 
among  my  strudel.    And  I  like  to  be  alone!" 

As  one  of  the  leading  sneakers  of  Hollywood,  known  to 
the  police  as  "Key-Hole"  Hall,  I  went  on  the  prowl.  Today 
I  can  present  to  you,  for  the  first  time  anywhere,  a  verbatim 
account  of  twenty-four  typical  hours  in  the  life  of  Marlene 
"Legs"  Dietrich.    (Not  to  be  confused  with  "Legs"  Diamond.) 

The  Dietrich  day  (and  every  day  is  Dietrich  day  with  me!) — 

8  A.M. —  Marlene  is  awakened  by  three  photographers, 
under  the  bed,  quarreling  over  who  shall  get  the  first  snapshot 
of  the  star  putting  on  her  mules.  Bathes,  her  small  daughter 
washing  her  back  and  her  husband  handing  her  the  so-and-so's 
while  she  dresses.  Breakfasts,  discovering  a  cameraman  dis- 
guised as  a  grapefruit  and  another  as  a  sliver  of  burned  toast. 
Expresses  pleasure  when  told  that  a  cameraman  has  fallen 
down  the  chimney  during  the  night. 

8:30  A.M.— What  is  known  as  "Dietrich's  Quiet  Hour.  "  On 
the  lawn  before  the  house  massed  military  bands  play  "Deutsch- 
land  Uber  Alles  Except  Hollywood,"  Miss  Marlene  playing 
the  bass  drum  with  her  knee-caps.  Other  numbers  are  "I 
Used  to  Love  Louisa  'til  Marlay-nah  Came  Along"  and  "If 
You  Snap  My  Garters,  I'll  Snap  You  on  the  Nose."  Dietrich 
then  boards  three  Rolls-Royces  and  pushes  off  for  the  studio. 
She  would  be  unaccompanied  if  it  were  not  for  twenty  motor- 
cycle cops  and  ten  cameramen  on  trucks.  The  star  obligingly 
stands  on  her  head,  puts  her  feet  on  the  windshield  and  juggles 
four  Jonathan  apples. 

9:00  A.M. — Slightly  burned  about  the  face  by  a  premature 
explosion  of  flashlight  powder.  "Poof!  Idd  iss  nudding!" 
she  tells  the  press.     "Only  my  face!" 

9:30  A.M. — Delivers  a  ten  minute  address  to  a  delegation 
of  rotogravure  section  editors  on  "Your  Knees  Know." 

10  A.M. — Radio  speech  over  a  network  of  ISO  stations, 
from  the  studio.  "I  luff  my  husband  and  my  leedle  girl," 
Miss  Dietrich  says  in  part.  Hen  Von  Sternberg — ach,  he  is  a 
genius!  Such  a  great  director.  I  luff  my  husband  and  am 
happiest  among  my  schnitzel.  I  want  to  make  great  pictures 
for  the  American  people.  I  luff  the  American  people,  and  my 
husband  and  my  leedle  girl!" 

10:30  A.M. — On  the  set.  Mr.  Von  Sternberg  is  directing 
her  in  "Below  the  Equator."  Her  costume  is  an  old 
peach  basket.  "Now,  Miss  Dietrich,"  he  calls  softly,  "the 
left  ankle,  please!    Now  the  right  knee-cap.    Quiver  it  gently! 

J>8 


Give  me  anger  with  the  left  knee,  Miss  Dietrich!"     Several 
susceptible  young  prop  boys  faint  dead  away. 

12  Noon — Luncheon  as  guest  of  honor  of  the  Dairymen's 
Association,  Miss  Dietrich  speaks  on  "Better  Calves." 

1  P.M. — Back  on  the  set.  Miss  Dietrich  is  now  wearing  a 
cherry  colored  sunbonnet  with  coral  piping  and  an  insert  of 
turkey-red  fichu.  The  scene  is  a  night  club  in  Panama  City. 
Marlene  is  playing  twenty-four  Albertina  Rasch  dancing  girls, 
thus  showing  no  less  than  forty-eight  perfect  Dietrich  legs  at 
one  and  the  same  time,  thus  breaking  the  record  held  for  forty 
years  by  a  New  York  City  octopus.  "I  can't  stand  it," 
screams  an  assistant  director.  Cinematographer  Lee  Garmes 
has  sixty-six  cameras  focussed  on  the  set,  some  of  them 
shooting  through  lace,  cellophane,  cob-webs  and  an  old  pair 
of  overalls  he  found  somewhere.  "Umph!"  said  Director 
Yon  Sternberg.  "A  great  day!"  He  dismisses  the  troupe  by 
firing  a  field-gun  and  running  up  the  Von  Sternberg  house-flag. 

2:30  P.M. — Retakes  of  scenes  showing  Miss  Dietrich's  brow, 
ears,  neck,  elbows  and  torso.  These  were  taken  by  error  and 
an  assistant  director  while  Director  Von  Sternberg  was  out 
seeing  a  lady  about  an  Airedale.  Scenes  are  substituted  dis- 
playing Miss  Dietrich's  knees,  thighs,  ankles,  arches  (far  from 
fallen),  great  toes,  and  shin-bones.  "Looks  like  a  great 
audience  picture!"  murmurs  the  crowd,  now  numbering  7,000. 

3  P.M. — Miss  Dietrich  poses  for  still  photographs  at  the 
studio.  Among  the  poses  shot  is  one  with  Miss  Dietrich  with 
an  arm  around  her  little  girl,  while  her  little  girl  has  her  arm 
around  her  daddy  and  her  daddy  has  an  arm  around  Mr.  Yon 
Sternberg's  throat. 

Other  poses:  Director  Von  Sternberg  holding  Marlene  with 
one  hand  and  her  husband  with  the  other,  while  the  little 
girl  rides  a  high   bicycle. 

Miss  Dietrich  standing  on  her  head  holding  Yon  Sternberg 
on  one  foot  and  her  husband  on  the  other,  while  the  little  girl 
waves  the  German  and  American  flags. 

Director  Yon  Sternberg  playing  a  bassoon,  Marlene  a  left 
handed  oboe,  her  husband  a  swinette  and  the  little  girl  a  kazoo. 

All  four  singing  "Down  by  the  Old  Mill  Stream." 

4  P.M. — Miss  Dietrich  receives  a  deputation  from  the 
American  Association  for  the  Prevention  of  Bare-Legged 
Women.  "I  promise  to  wear  sheer  opera-length  hosiery  when- 
ever the  part  permits,"  says  Miss  Dietrich.  Thanksgiving  by 
the  chaplain,  and  grand  display  of  fireworks  on  the  lawn. 

5  P.M. — Miss  Dietrich,  wearing  shorts,  plays  nine  holes  of 
golf.  She  is  alone  save  for  six  caddies,  her  husband,  her  little 
girl,  Mr.  B.  P.  Schulberg,  fourteen  cameramen  (seven  movie 
and  seven  still)  and  the  Fourth  Infantry,  California  National 
Guard.    She  takes  ninety-nine. 


Life  of  Marlene  Dietrich 


6  P.M. — A  half  hour  nap.  Flashlight  Drill  by  Photographers' 
Union  on  the  lawn. 

6:30  P.M. — Marlene  dresses  for  dinner,  or  a  be  n  (lessen.  She 
chooses,  for  the  occasion,  a  tulle  butterfly  net  trimmed  with 
mauve  cellophane,  hip  length,  with  insertions  of  sheer  plate 
glass.  "Let's  eat!"  she  says,  and  the  Grand  March  to  the 
eating-room  forms  and  sets  out. 

7  P.M. — Dinner,  served  by  cameramen  and  reformers  dis- 
guised as  butlers  and  busboys.  A  plate  is  served  and  exposed 
with  each  course.  Seventy-four  guests,  including  officials  of 
film  and'  camera  companies,  newspaper  and  magazine  pub- 
lishers, her  husband  and  her  little  girl.  Miss  Dietrich  responds 
to  the  toast — "Down  with  Long  Skirts,  A  Menace  to  the  Health 
of  American  Women!"    (Cheers  and  flashlights.) 


9  P.M. — Private  fdm  showing  in  drawing-room.    Preview  of 
new  D.  W.  Griffith  epic,  "Legs  Through  the  Ages." 

10  P.M. — Bed.     Platoon  of  police  drive  cameramen  from 
bedroom,  house,  grounds  and  county,  at  pistol  point. 

"I  luff  to  be  alone!"  murmurs  Marlene,  as  the  Sandman 
approaches  at  the  end  of  another  quiet,  sheltered  day. 


A  r  s  d  a  I  e 


49 


Select  Your  Pictures  and  You  Won't 


£ 


THE  CISCO  KID— Fox 


BECAUSE  of  the  popularity  of  Warner  Baxter  and 
Edmund  Lowe  and  the  superb  scenic  shots,  this  picture, 
from  the  old  O.  Henry  thriller,  should  make  money.  It's  too 
bad  that  we've  seen  variations  of  it  several  times,  as  it 
detracts  from  the  novelty.  Edmund  Lowe  has  been  Sergeant 
Quirt  before.  He's  the  same  women-all-fall-for-me  sergeant 
here.  But  he  does  a  swell  job.  Warner  Baxter  will  make 
every  woman's  heart  pitter-patter.  He's  never  been  more 
subtly  fascinating  than  as  the  dashing  Mexican  buccaneer. 
Conchita  Montenegro  is  alluring  and  shows  promise. 
Nora  Lane  surprises.  You  think  at  times  she  is  Alice  Joyce, 
so  definitely  does  she  resemble  her  and  so  aptly  does  she 
handle  a  Joyce  role.  Al  Cohn  deserves  a  red  apple  for  adroit 
adaptation  of  so  well-known  a  story.     See  it. 


* 


BAD  COMPANY— RKO-Pathe 


AND  still  they  come — more  gangster  pictures.  The  big 
idea  seems  to  be  to  take  the  same  old  machine-gunny 
goings-on  and  spread  them  over  some  new  plot-angle. 

The  "different"  angle  in  this  one  is  that  Helen  Twelve- 
trees'  brother  and  sweetheart  are  both  gangsters,  and  she 
doesn't  know  it  until  the  shooting  begins.  It  starts  when  her 
sweetheart's  gang-boss  wants  Helen  for  himself,  so  the  jolly 
old  gang  custom  of  putting-on-the-spot  starts. 

"Bad  Company"  stands  above  the  ruck  of  gang  stories 
because  of  the  fine  acting,  with  Twelvetrees  and  Ricardo 
Cortez  taking  the  honors.  You  may  think  that  Cortez 
steals  the  picture — which  is  getting  to  be  a  Cortez  habit. 
John  Garrick  and  Arthur  Stone  deserve  applause. 

50 


The 


Shadow 
Stage 

(BEO.  B.  S-  *AT.  or».)       tf  J 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


* 


GET-RICH-QUICK  WALLINGFORD—M-G-M 


WALLINGFORD,  good  on  the  stage,  fair  on  the  silent 
screen,  at  last  finds  his  true  medium  in  the  talkies — 
and  how  the  revamped  old  Wallingford  tale  does  whiz  now! 
And,  too,  it  gives  William  Haines,  the  best  chance  he's 
ever  had,  for  his  special  sort  of  ability.  As  Wallingford,  he 
drops  the  usual  smart-aleck,  wisecracking  stuff  and  be- 
comes sincere,  human  and  enjoyable. 

Next  to  Haines,  Jimmy  Durante  and  Ernest  Torrence 
take  the  honors — and  there'll  be  many  a  one  to  say  that 
Durante  steals  the  show  from  the  star.  This  boy,  Durante, 
by  the  way,  is  knocking  Hollywood  for  a  row  of  dialogue 
writers  and  is  going  to  be  one  of  the  big  shots  all  over  the 
country  before  many  more  feet  of  film  have  passed  through 
the  camera. 

The  story  is  about  a  young  crook  who  "is  putty  in  the 
hands  of  a  girl."  His  two  cronies  try  to  keep  him  crooked, 
but  when  he  falls  in  love,  he  talks  them  into  going  straight 
and  making  a  lot  of  money  thereby.  Imagine  their  surprise! 
Even  you  who  remember  Wallingford  in  short  stories  won't 
be  disappointed. 

They  said  Bill  Haines  was  slipping.  This  picture  proves 
how  wrong  they  were.  Go  see  it  and  you  will  be  con- 
vinced. 


Have  to  Complain  About  the  Bad  Ones 


The  Best  Pictures  of  the  Month 

GET-RICH-QUICK  WALLINGFORD 

BAD  COMPANY 

CONSOLATION  MARRIAGE  DEVOTION 

THE  CISCO  KID  24  HOURS 

The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 

William  Haines  in  "Get-Rich-Quick  Wallingford" 

Jimmy  Durante  in  "Get-Rich-Quick  Wallingford" 

Helen  Twelvetrees  in  "Bad  Company" 

Ricardo  Cortez  in  "Bad  Company" 

Irene  Dunne  in  "Consolation  Marriage" 

Pat  O'Brien  in  "Consolation  Marriage" 

Clive  Brook  in  "24  Hours" 

Warner  Baxter  in  "The  Cisco  Kid" 

Edmund  Lowe  in  "The  Cisco  Kid" 

Ann  Harding  in  "Devotion" 

Leslie  Howard  in  "Devotion" 

Robert  Williams  in  "Devotion" 

Linda  Watkins  in  "Sob  Sister" 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  reviewed  will  be  found  on  page  128 


* 


CONSOLATION  MARRIAGE— Radio  Pictures 


HERE'S  a  not-out-of-the-ordinary  story,  transformed 
into  a  fine  picture  by  superb  dialogue,  direction  and 
acting.  "Consolation  Marriage"  is,  too,  that  rare  example 
of  true  sophistication  in  screen  fare  that  occasionally  appears 
amid  all  the  mess  of  pseudo-sophistication. 

The  story  deals  with  two  young  folks,  each  jilted  by  their 
respective  loves,  who  accidentally  meet  and  in  a  spirit  of 
well-what-of-it,  get  married — for  consolation.  Time  passes 
and  to  each  comes  the  chance  to  return  to  the  original  sweet- 
heart. But  the  old  loves  have  grown  cold,  and  they  discover 
that  their  consolation  marriage  has  become  the  real  thing. 

It  sounds  trite,  and  it  might  easily  have  been.  But 
Humphrey  Pearson  sat  down  and  wrote  some  of  the  finest 
1931,  real-people  dialogue  you've  ever  heard  from  the  screen. 
And  Director  Paul  Sloane  climbed  up  on  a  high  place  and 
stayed  there  throughout  his  direction  of  the  film,  never  once 
dropping  to  the  level  of  mediocrity.  Irene  Dunne  and  Pat 
O'Brien  poured  their  best  into  their  portrayal  of  the  two 
youngsters.  Irene's  work  is  as  good  as  her  "  Cimarron"  per- 
formance; O'Brien  bests  his  "Front  Page"  role.  John  Hal- 
liday  and  Matt  Moore  do  grand  work. 

Myrna  Loy  scintillates  briefly  in  a  role  that  fits  her  as 
perfectly  as  her  gowns. 


* 


DEVOTION— RKO-Pathe 


THIS  proves  what  a  perfect  cast  and  excellent  direction 
can  do  for  a  worm-eaten,  inconsequential  story. 

We  don't  often  advise  you  to  see  a  picture  made  from  a 
poorly  constructed  story.  But  we  do  advise  you  not  to  miss 
this  because  you  will  enjoy  every  second. 

Ann  Harding,  Leslie  Howard,  Robert  Williams  and 
Louise  Closser  Hale  have  never  shown  their  adroitness  more. 
And  that  is  saying  a  great  deal.  Excellent  dialogue  helps, 
but  it  is  the  humanness  of  the  performances  which  red 
chalks  this  as  a  headliner.  Director  Robert  Milton  also 
deserves  a  big  hand.  He  made  a  bright  green  tree  from 
dead  timber.  Ann  loves  Leslie;  Leslie  has  a  wife;  Robert 
Williams  wants  Ann.  How  it  ends  doesn't  matter.  We 
warn  you  not  to  miss  it. 


* 


24  HOURS— Paramount 


MIRACLE  of  miracles,  here  is  a  picture  that  is  not  only 
good  but  different.  The  idea  is  to  show  all  that  happens 
in  twenty-four  hours  in  a  big  city.  There  are  murders, 
births,  legal  and  illegal  loves,  deaths,  tragedy  and  comedy. 
Against  this  background  is  projected  the  main  theme  of  the 
story — two  worlds,  high  and  low,  come  into  contact  for  a 
brief  moment.  Clive  Brook  is  a  highbrow  who  drinks  like 
a  lowbrow,  and  Miriam  Hopkins  is  a  lowbrow  who  thinks 
like  a  highbrow.  Kay  Francis  deserts  her  husband,  Clive, 
to — but—  See  this  one!  You'll  be  sorry  if  you  miss  it. 
The  actors  are  excellent,  direction  is  splendid;  even  the 
cameramen  were  inspired.  But  why  change  the  title  of 
Rupert  Hughes'  fine  story,  "Shattered  Glass"? 

51 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping   List! 


MY  SIN— 
Paramount 


THIS 
MODERN 
AGE— 
M-G-M 


WHAT  an  improvement  over  Tallulah  Bankhead's  first  film, 
"Tarnished  Lady"!  In  this  Miss  Bankhead  is  thai  sleek 
and  smart,  and  does  some  excellent  acting.  The  story  is 
another  of  those  "should  a  woman  tell  her  past"  things  with 
people  who  know  about  her  popping  up  all  over  the  place.  But 
it's  worth  a  look  at  Bankhead  and  Fredric  March,  who  gives  his 
usual  fine,  sincere  performance. 


DANGEROUS 

AFFAIR— 

Columbia 


THIS  picture  was  reviewed  in  the  July  issue.  Since  then  it 
has  been  almost  entirely  remade.  Now  Joan  Crawford  is 
supported  by  Pauline  Frederick,  as  mother,  instead  of  Marjorie 
Rambeau.  Neil  Hamilton  and  Monroe  Owsley  remain  the 
same.  In  July  we  said  it  was  a  ridiculous  story.  We  say  the 
same  in  November.  But  Joan  is  lovely  and  the  picture  has  lots 
of  box-office  appeal. 


PENROD  AND 

SAM— 

First  National 


JACK  HOLT  and  Ralph  Graves  are  rapidly  coming  to  the 
very  top  as  one  of  those  he-men  teams  in  pictures.  They're 
working  in  double  harness  again  in  this  fast-moving  and  sur- 
prise-filled "shrieker."  A  "shrieker,"  you  know,  is  one  of  those 
hair-raising  mystery  things,  where  hands  reach  out  from  walls 
and  you  never  know  what  will  happen  next.  This  is  exciting 
entertainment. 


REMEMBER  Ben  Alexander  in  the  silent  version  of 
Tarkington's  "Penrod  and  Sam"?  Leon  Janney,  as  the 
lovable,  mischievous  Penrod,  and  Junior  Coghlan,  his  pal, 
bring  it  to  the  talking  screen.  The  escapades  of  the  two  boys 
and  their  gang  are  entertaining.  Even  the  hard-boiled  will  shed 
tears  at  the  death  of  the  dog.  ZaSu  Pitts  is  excellent  in  a  small 
part.    Kids  will  love  it. 


HONOR 
OF  THE 
FAMILY— 
First  National 


HOMICIDE 

SQUAD— 

Universal 


THERE'S  little  left  of  the  Balzac  story  in  this  but  the  title — 
and  who  knows  but  that  they'll  change  that,  too,  before  this 
review  sees  print?  The  story  has  been  changed  so  that  an 
adventuress  is  the  heroine,  and  Bebe  Daniels  plays  the  role 
spicily.  It's  about  a  war  between  her  and  an  old  man's  nephew 
to  see  who  gets  his  money.  Both  do,  together.  Innuendo- 
filled  dialogue. 

52 


LEO  CARRILLO  does  his  usual  Italian  dialogue  tricks  with 
the  English  language,  this  time  as  the  ruthless  gang  leader, 
in  what  turns  out  to  be  just  another  gang  picture.  The  course 
of  true  gangsters  has  the  traditional  rough  going.  There  is  the 
usual  quota  of  guns  and  gore  before  the  gang  chief  gets  his  death 
slug  from  a  police  gun.  Mary  Brian,  Russell  Gleason  and  Noah 
Beery  are  the  other  outstanding  players. 


The   First   and    Best   Talkie    Reviews! 


THE  ROAD 
TO  RENO— 
Paramount 


sob  sister- 
Fox 


A  NUMBER  of  Paramount's  important  players  appear  in 
this,  but  somehow  it  doesn't  quite  measure  up.  It  deals 
with  a  woman  who  marries  and  divorces  frequently.  She  ruins 
the  lives  of  those  close  to  her — even  to  the  extent  of  murder  and 
suicide.  There  are  plenty  of  "  big"  scenes,  and  on  that  basis  it 
has  interest.  Lilyan  Tashman,  Buddy  Rogers  and  Peggy 
Shannon  do  splendid  work. 


HERE'S  a  delightful  new  screen  personality — Linda  Wat- 
kins,  a  blonde  with  a  kick.  And  opposite  Jimmie  Dunn, 
too.  With  these  two  first  rate  newcomers  teamed,  the  picture's 
bound  to  be  good.  It's  newspaper  stuff,  with  Linda  and 
Jimmie  rival  reporters.  Linda  uses  her  sex  appeal,  and  that's 
where  the  trouble  comes.  But  it  all  ends  happily.  There's 
plenty  of  action  in  this,  and  it's  a  cinch  you'll  like  it! 


WE  THREE— 
First  National 


SHANGHAIED 

LOVE— 

Columbia 


THERE  have  been  many  worse  and  many  better  pictures 
than  this.  This  is  one  of  those  in-betweens  so  hard  to 
describe.  It  neither  bores  nor  thrills.  Rose  Hobart  is  a  maid 
in  a  cheap  boarding-house  with  a  stigma  on  her  name  inherited 
from  her  mother.  She  catches  a  millionaire  on  the  rebound. 
Complications  result.  Ben  Lyon,  Claude  Gillingwater  and  Miss 
Hobart  are  excellent. 


IN  the  silents,  this  was  "The  Blood  Ship,"  and  it  was  a  fast 
thriller.  But  in  transition  to  the  talking  screen  it  has  lost  a 
good  deal  of  its  action  through  too  much  dialogue.  It's  all 
about  mutiny  and  gory  evil-doings  on  a  ship.  Richard  Crom- 
well gives  a  nice  performance;  so  does  Noah  Beery.  Others 
outstanding  in  the  cast  are  Sally  Blane,  Willard  Robertson  and 
Richard  Alexander. 


PERSONAL 

MAID— 

Paramount 


RECKLESS 

LIVING— 

Universal 


<    -ml 


SO  somebody  thought  it  would  be  a  fine  idea  if  they  put 
Nancy  Carroll  in  a  story  about  a  personal  maid.  It  was  a 
cute  idea— and  a  nice  characterization  was  established  by 
Nancy,  but  something  went  wrong  with  the  plot  when  the 
dissolute  son  from  Harvard  arrived.  Mary  Boland  is  grand, 
but  the  story  just  isn't  there — which  makes  it  kind  of  hard  on 
the  actors.     Pat  O'Brien  and  Gene  Raymond  help. 


A  SNAPPY,  hold-your-interest  program  picture.  Ricardo 
Cortez  is  the  pleasant  villain  seeking  Norman  Foster's 
wife.  We  can't  blame  him.  Mae  Clarke  is  worth  chasing. 
Since  Norman  is  the  one  bootlegger  in  New  York  not  making 
money,  Mae  is  a  bit  tempted  by  the  suave  placer  of  race-horse 
bets.    However,  real  love  conquers  as  it  should. 

[  ADDITIONAL  RE  MEWS  ON  PAGE  115  ] 


53 


THE  stories  of  Aladdin  and  Sam  Alvvein  are  a  lot  alike. 
Aladdin  was  a  poor  boy,  wasn't  he?  Well,  so  was  Sam. 
He  was  born  over  on  the  East  Side  of  New  York.  He 
lived  in  a  three-room  tenement  with  his  mother  and 
father  and  six  younger  sisters  and  brothers.  About  the  time 
Sam  climbed  into  the  eighth  grade,  his  father  needed  financial 
help  so  badly  that  Sam  went  to  work.  He  got  a  job  as  office  boy 
for  Carl  Feitelbaum  of  the  Solar  Films,  just  when  moving 
pictures  started  to  make  millions. 

Carl  took  a  liking  to  the  boy.  When  he  went  to  California  he 
took  him  along,  and  when  he  picked  up  an  old  studio  for  the 
mortgage  he  put  Sam  in  charge.  The  studio  showed  a  profit  the 
first  year,  and  Sam  was  made. 

From  that  point  on  he  gets  to  look  more  and  more  like 
Aladdin.  True,  he  didn't  have  a  lamp  to  rub.  But  he  had  a 
check  book  to  write  in.  He  didn't  have  djinns  and  genii  and 
slaves  to  bounce  in  out  of  nowhere  to  grant  his  slightest  wish. 
But  he  could  hire  almost  anybody  he  wanted,  to  do  anything  he 
wanted.  He  wasn't  a  prince.  But  he  was  a  Big  Shot  in  Holly- 
wood. Wasn't  he  president  and  general  manager  of  one  of  the 
most  important  film  companies? 

He  even  had  a  princess.  Sam  didn't  need  a  lamp  to  find  her, 
either.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  he  found  her  while  he  was  trying 
to  put  out  a  light,  the  light  of  one  of  his  stars. 

The  morning  it  all  started,  Barbara  Henderson,  Sam's  best 
emotional  star,  refused  to  play  the  lead  in  a  feature  booked  for 
immediate  release.    Sam  sent  for  her. 

Barbara  Henderson  was  blonde,  cultured  and  poised. 
Success  had  assured  her.  She  was  beautiful  and  she  moved  into 
the  room  under  its  steady  assurance. 

"Yes,  Mr.  Alwein,"  she  said,  and  Sam  was  captured  again  by 
the  husky  voice  that  had  held  her  fans  to  her  after  the  advent 
of  the  talkies.  Smiling,  he  motioned  her  to  a  seat  and  sat  down 
himself. 

"T  HEAR  you  don't  like  the  new  picture,"  he  said.  "What's 
JL  the  matter  with  it?  I  paid  thirty-five  thousand  dollars  for 
it.  It's  a  best  seller.  It's  got  everything  the  public  wants. 
Love.    Sacrifice.    A  bad  woman  goin'  straight." 

"  My  part  is  overshadowed,"  she  told  him.  "The  wife  gets 
all  the  sympathy.  People  will  come  out  of  the  theaters  remem- 
bering her  and  not  me.  My  public  will  be  disappointed. 
They'll  remember  I've  lost.  I  have  only  two  big  scenes,  the  one 
where  I  steal  him  from  his  wife,  the  other  where  I  give  him 
up." 

"This  picture,"  Sam  patiently  pointed  out,  "is  booked  and 
scheduled  for  production.  We've  sold  your  name  with  it  to  the 
exhibitors.    You  got  to  play  it." 

"No,"  she  disagreed,  "I  don't  have  to  play  it.  They  have 
even  cut  my  two  big  scenes,  to  put  over  the  wife.  And  the 
dialogue  isn't  good.  It  couldn't  be,  even  if  Shakespeare  wrote 
it." 

"  Listen,  Miss  Henderson,"  Sam  said.  "  Get  this.  I  read  one 
of  Shakespeare's  plays,  'Hamlet,'  and  that  baby  couldn't  work 

5-4 


lg 


Alwein,  the  producer 
who  always  got  what  he 
wanted,  thought  he  could 
make  a  star  out  of  any 
beautiful  woman 


By 

Charles  J,  McGuirk 

Illustrated  by   H.   R.   Ballinger 


on  this  lot.  I  got  seven  dialogue  writers  could  put  it  all  over 
him.  Mavbe  he  was  good  in  his  day,  but  that  was  a  long  time 
ago." 

"Shakespeare,"  Miss  Henderson  told  him,  "was  the  greatest 
dramatist  of  all  time." 

"Yeh?"  said  Sam.  "Well,  why  ain't  his  plays  sellin'?  He's 
out  of  copyright  and  anybody  can  lift  him.  And  when  they  do, 
the  play's  a  flop.  And  listen,  Miss  Henderson,  we  ain't  makin' 
pictures  for  highbrows.  We're  makin'  pictures  for  the  high 
school  boy  and  girl  and  the  tired  stenographer  and  the  business 
man  and  his  wife.  Virtue  gets  its  own  reward.  A  bad  man  or 
woman  can't  win,  but  they  get  all  the  emotional  breaks.  See?  " 

"  My  public  won't  stand  for  it,"  she  said. 

"Your  public,"  Sam  said,  and  his  voice  squeaked  a  little. 


The  story  of  a  Hollywood 

Aladdin  who  rubbed  his 

lamp  the  wrong  way 


Margaret  Sperry  did 
not,  it  was  obvious, 
take  direction 
readily.  She  reacted 
slowly  and  crudely  to 
the  sham  emotions 
she  had  been  told  to 
depict — love,  joy, 
anger  and  grief 


•"  Who  made  your  public,  Miss  Henderson?  We  did.  We  built 
you  up  with  good  pictures  and  swell  publicity.  Do  you  know 
what  you  cost  us  in  three  years?  One  million  and  a  half 
dollars." 

"And  what  did  I  make  for  you,  Mr.  Alwein?"  she  asked. 
"  Four  times  that,  at  least.  You  didn't  build  me  up  because  you 
loved  me.  You  did  it  because  I  made  money  for  you.  Now  I'm 
nearly  at  the  end  of  my  contract  and  you're  giving  me  a  bad 
picture  so  that  I  won't  be  able  to  ask  for  a  decent  salary.  Well, 
I  won't  play  it.    That's  final." 

"All  right,"  said  Sam.  "But  if  you  don't  play  it,  you  won't 
plav  in  another  picture  for  us.  And  we'll  get  somebody  who 
will." 

"You  haven't  got  anybody  who  can  do  my  stuff,"  she  told 
him. 

"No,  we  haven't,"  he  agreed,  "but  we'll  get  somebody. 
We'll  make  a  new  star.  It'll  be  easy.  There's  thirty  thousand 
beautiful  women  from  all  over  the  world  in  Hollywood  beggin' 
for  the  chance.  I  can  pick  out  one  of  them  and  make  a  star  out 
of  her.    I've  done  it  before.    I  can  do  it  again." 

She  was  strangely  unimpressed. 

"Fine,  Mr.  Alwein,"  she  said.  "I  hope  you  do.  Now  I 
wonder  if  I  could  go  down  to  Bermuda  for  a  couple  of  weeks." 

"You  can  go  to  — .  You  can  go  anywhere  you  like,"  Sam 
said.  "And  when  you  come  back,  you'll  see  a  new  star  bein' 
made.    We  make  'em  and  we  break  'em." 

"Get  me,"  he  ordered  his  studio  manager,  "a  girl  to  take 
Henderson's  place.  She's  got  to  be  beautiful  and  she's  got  to 
have  //.  Make  it  snappy.  The  picture  is  scheduled  and  the 
sets  are  all  built.    You  got  to  shoot  it  in  six  weeks." 

AT  first  sight  of  Margaret  Sperry,  Sam  Alwein  felt  he  had 
found  a  star  whose  luster,  when  he  had  developed  her, 
would  make  Barbara  Henderson's  seem  a  faint  glimmer.  He 
knew  this  immediately  when  she  flashed  before  him  in  the  three 
hundred  feet  of  her  screen  test.  Even  in  the  black  and  white  of 
the  picture,  he  sensed  she  was  a  redhead.  She  was,  he  learned 
from  her  application  card,  twenty-three,  but  she  looked 
eighteen. 

She  had  //  decidedly,  in  her  well-rounded  body,  her  soft  eyes, 
her  sulky,  passionate  mouth  and  in  the  unconscious  poise  that 
goes  with  the  possession  of  beauty.  She  was  tiny,  a  Venus  in 
miniature. 

Her  voice,  like  that  of  many  beautiful  women,  was  not  in 
keeping  with  the  rest  of  her.    It  was  unmodulated.    But  it  was 
soft.     And  pleasing.     It  could  be  molded  by  a  skilled 
elocutionist. 

She  did  not,  it  was  obvious,  take  direction  readily. 
She  reacted  slowly  and  crudely  to  the  sham  emotions  she 
had  been  told  to  depict — love,  joy,  anger  and  grief. 

But  he  knew  she  was  a  find  from  the  way  he  himself 
reacted  to  her  screen  presence.  His  brain  approved  her 
as  it  did  Barbara  Henderson,  but  his  emotions  were  eager 
in  endorsement.  He  felt  she  was  the  kind  of  woman  he 
could  love  and  marry  and  he  pictured  the  millions  of  fans 
agreeing  enormously  with  him.  This  surprised  him. 
That  personal  thought  had  never  before  entered  into  his 
judgment  of  any  actress. 

He  sent  for  her.  Her  real  presence  bore  out  the 
promise  of  the  screen.  She  was  so  beautiful  that  for  one 
of  the  few  times  in  his  life  he  was  self-conscious  in  a 
woman's  presence. 

"Miss  Sperry,"  he  said  uncertainly,  "I  guess  you 
haven't  had  much  experience  actin',  but  you  got  other 
things  the  public  wants.  You're  goin'  to  work  right  away 
in  this  picture.  You're  goin'  to  have  all  the  help  we  can 
give  you.  You'll  have  Mr.  Hal  Reynolds,  the  best 
director  we  got.  It's  the  chance  of  a  lifetime.  If  you 
make  good,  you'll  be  a  star.  While  we're  findin'  out 
about  you,  we'll  pay  you — "  he  was  going  to  say  a 
hundred,  but  looking  into  her  eyes,  he  was  surprised  to 
hear  himself  saying  " — five  hundred  a  week." 

She  stared  at  him,  her  eyes  big  with  fright. 
"I'm  scared,"  she  told  him.  "  I'll  never  be  able 
to  do  it.  I  don't  know  anything  about  acting. 
Mr.  Alwein.  I  should  never  have  taken  that  test. 
I  only  did  it  for  fun  and  neither  Mother  nor  I 
thought  for  a  minute  I  had  a  chance.  We  just 
got  in  from  Iowa,  and  we  learned  you  were 
searching  for  an  unknown  actress  to  develop. 

"I'm  afraid  the  camera  was  too  kind  to  me. 
How  can  I  ever  learn  to  act  to  play  the  leading 

56 


The  first  sight  of  that  beautiful 

girl    made    Sam   think   he    had 

found  a  lustrous  new  star 


part  in  a  picture?  Why,  I  don't  think  I'll  even  dare 
try  it." 

"You  got  to  try  it.'-'  he  told  her  emphatically.  "I  said  I 
could  make  an  actress  out  of  any  woman,  any  beautiful  woman. 
It  won't  be  hard,  Miss  Sperry.  You  got  all  our  resources 
behind  you.  You'll  have  one  of  the  best  directors  in  the  busi- 
ness workin'  on  you.  All  you  have  to  do  is  what  he  tells  you. 
Reynolds  could  make  a  wooden  Indian  act." 

Hollywood  was  skeptical  about  this  new  experiment.  It  was 
the  talk  of  the  studios.  Sam  Alwein  had  gone  crazy  and  was 
taking  a  girl  with  no  experience  on  either  stage  or  screen  and 
was  insisting  he  could  make  her  a  great  star. 

Sam,  himself,  had  no  doubts  about  it. 

"I'm  willing  to  spend  a  million  to  put  this  picture  and  this 
girl  over,"  he  told  Hal  Reynolds,  ace  director.  "And  I'm 
countin'  on  you,  Hal.  I  admit  it's  a  tough  assignment.  She 
never  had  any  experience.  You'll  have  to  go  slow  with  her. 
Don't  panic  her.  Right  now  she's  scared  to  death.  If  you  have 
to,  cut  the  dialogue  away  down  and  put  over  the  business  in 
action.  Anything  you  do  is  all  right  with  me  as  long  as  she 
clicks." 

"Okay,  Chief,"  said  Reynolds.  "If  she's  got  anything,  I'll 
bring  it  out.  If  she  hasn't,  I  can't.  You  can't  make  a  silk 
purse  out  of  a  sow's  ear,  you  know." 

"I  know  it,  Hal,"  Sam  admitted.      "But  this  girl's  all  silk." 


HOW  do  you  suppose  Aladdin  would  have  felt  if  he  had 
rubbed  his  lamp  and  said: 

"I'd  like  to  have  a  couple  of  bales  of  your  best  Oriental  rugs, 
a  peck  of  diamonds,  some  solid  gold  braziers  for  the  living-room 
and  a  few  gallons  of  that  new  jasmine  toilet  water.  And  you 
might  bring  along  a  couple  of  pure-bred,  milk-white  Arabian 
horses — and,  oh  yes,  a  beautiful  princess." 

And  nothing  happened? 

Well,  that's  the  way  Sam  Alwein  felt. 

For  the  first  time  in  the  years  he  had  been  a  Big  Shot,  the  old 
lamp  wasn't  working.    Neither  was  the  magic  carpet. 

56 


It  worried  him.    He  felt  that  his  ability  as  a  pro- 
ducer who  could  pull  romance  and  love  and  ad- 
venture out  of  a  photographic  dark  room,  much 
as  a  parlor  magician  draws  a  rabbit  out  of  a 
hat,  was  beginning  to  slip.     That  a  little 
problem  like  making  a  star  out  of  an  un- 
known should  be  enough  to  throw  him. 
Yet,  sitting  in  his  office  one  morning 
three  weeks  after  the  new  picture  had 
gone  into  production,   Sam  Alwein 
admitted  to  himself  that  the  possi- 
bilities   were    against    Margaret 
Sperry  proving  a  smashing  hit  in 
pictures.     He  had  not  seen  any 
more  of  her  on  the  screen  since  he 
had  been  captured  by  her  test, 
but   the   reports   were   not  en- 
couraging.    It   was  her  voice. 
Hal    Reynolds    practically    ad- 
mitted it  was  hopeless. 

Sam  could  understand  that  a 

microphone  might  magnify  its 

soft  huskiness  into  harshness.  A 

peacock  has  a  harsh  voice  but 

nobody  kicks.    They  accept  the 

voice  along  with  the  beauty  of  the  bird. 

Well,  they  would  have  to  do  the  same 

thing    with    Margaret    Sperry.      Her 

beauty,   he   figured,    would   hold   her 

audiences  until  the  rest  of  her  sneaked 

up  on  them,  because  that's  the  way  it 

had  happened  with  him. 

AFTER  their  first  conversation  in 
his  office,  Sam,  it  must  be  ad- 
mitted, had  begun  to  have  his  doubts. 
He  was  preparing  to  sink  several 
hundred  thousand  dollars  into  a  pro- 
duction and  nobody  does  that,  even  in 
Hollywood,  without  being  assured  of  at 
least  an  even  chance  of  getting  it  back. 
He  wanted  to  be  sure  that  his  first  im- 
pressions had  been  correct.  So  he  had 
sent  for  her  the  morning  they  started 
work  on  the  picture.  He  still  remem- 
bered the  thrill  of  satisfaction  the  sight 
of  her  had  given  him. 

She  was  dressed  for  her  role  of  home- 
wrecker  in  a  decollete  green  evening 
gown,  and  in  her  heavy  make-up  she 
looked  at  first  glance  sophisticated  and 
blase.    Her  beauty  made  him  catch  his  breath. 

"  I  asked  you  to  come  to  see  me,"  he  said,  "  because  I  want  to 
tell  you  not  to  be  frightened.  You'll  find  acting  will  come  easy 
in  a  little  while." 

"But  I  am  frightened,"  she  told  him,  and  laughed  nervously. 
"Only  I  promise  you,  I'm  going  to  try  hard." 

"That's  all  you  have  to  do,"  Sam  smiled.     "You'll  make  it." 

It  was  five  days  before  he  saw  her  again.    Though  he  wanted 

to  badly  enough,  he  didn't  go  near  the  stage  in  which  she  was 

working.    He  was  afraid  his  presence  would,  as  he  expressed  it, 

"panic"  her. 

But  he  never  remembered  being  as  anxious  about  anything  in 
his  life  as  he  was  for  the  success  of  this  picture — and  this  girl. 
He  happened  to  be  standing  at  the  studio  entrance  late  one 
afternoon  when  she  came  out  to  enter  the  car  the  studio  had  set 
aside  for  her  use. 

"How  are  things  comin'  along?"  he  greeted  her. 
"  I  don't  know,  Mr.  Alwein,"  she  said.    "  I  may  be  doing  very 
well.    If  I'm  not,  it's  my  own  fault.    I  want  you  to  know  I've 
never  met  such  kindness  in  my  life.     Everyone  in  the  place 
tries  to  help  me.    And  Mr.  Reynolds  is  wonderful  to  me." 

"Yeh?"  Sam  said.  He  wondered  if  Reynolds  was  making 
any  passes  at  her.    "What  does  he  do  that's  wonderful?" 

"  Why,  he  spends  hours  going  over  my  scenes  with  me  again 
and  again." 

When  her  car  had  driven  away,  he  turned  back  and  walked 
into  Reynolds'  office. 

"How's  the  picture  comin',  Hal?"  he  asked. 

"All  right,  I  guess."    Reynolds  was  non-committal. 

"How's  the  new  girl,  Miss — Miss  Sperry?" 

"How  would  you  expect  a  raw  [  please  turn  to  page  120  ] 


He  Is  The  Real  Thins:! 


IVAN  LEBEDEFF  is  Hollywood's 
champion  hand-kisser,  but  he  can't 
understand  why  people  talk  so  much 
about  his  doing  it. 

To  him,  he  says,  it's  as  natural  as  shak- 
ing hands.  He  seems  quite  unable  to 
realize  that  in  Hollywood,  where  hand- 
kissing  is  no  more  a  custom  than  rubbing 
noses  like  South  Sea  Islanders,  it  natu- 
rally occasions  a  deal  of  giggling  comment. 

It's  related  that  he  once  met  a  feminine 
acquaintance  while  swimming,  and  nearly 
drowned  trying  to  kiss  her  hand  —  but 
probably  that  isn't  true. 

He  encounters  a  lady  he  knows.     He 
suddenly    halts    that    headlong    military 
stride  of  his,  and  comes  to  attention.    He 
clicks    his   heels    together   smartly.      He 
doesn't  lift  his  hat,  because  he  doesn't 
wear  any.    But  he  jackknifes  at  the  waist 
to  a   right  angle,  grasps  the  lady's  ex- 
tended hand  in  his,  and  kisses  it  smartly. 
So  the  lady  nearly  swoons  and  swears 
from  then  on  that  there's  at  least  one 
gentleman  in  Hollywood  and  he's  Ivan 
Lebedeff.     And  newspaper  columnists 
and  Hollywood  chatterers  say  a  lot  of 
funny  things. 

"But  why?"  Ivan  asks  in  bewilder- 
ment —  well-acted,  regardless  of 
whether  it's  sincere  or  not.  Because 
you  can  never  quite  tell,  about  what 
Ivan  says  or  does,  whether  it's  done 
sincerely  or,  on  the  other  hand,  with  a 
deliberate  aim  for  effect.  "Every 
nation  has  its  own  particular  customs. 
Before  the  war,  in  Russia,  it  was  the 
custom  for  men  to  kiss  the  hand  of 
women  in  greeting.  It  constitutes  an 
expression  of  respect  toward  the  sex  of 
a  man's  own  mother."  Those  are 
Ivan's  own  explanatory  words. 

"The  custom  was  trained  in  us  from 
earliest  childhood,  and  has  become  so 
deeply  rooted  in  consciousness  that  it 
is  just  as  natural  for  men  so  trained  as 
is  shaking  hands. 

PERSONALLY,  I  think  it  is  a 
very   beautiful  custom  against 
which  I  can  say  only  one  thing — 
that  is,  there  are  fewer  and  fewer 
hands  in  the  world  that  deserve  to 
be  kissed! 

"I  do  not  see  in  this  custom 
anything  comical,  and  I  myself 
am  astonished  that  so  much  pub- 
licity has  been  given  this  way  of 
mine.  In  St.  Petersburg,  before 
the   war,   had   someone  come 
from  the  United  States  and 
started  to  chew  gum  in  social 
circles,   no  one   would  have 
commented,  even  though 
they  might  have  thought  it 
a  strange  habit.    If  anyone 
had  dared  to  make  an  iron- 
ical remark  about  it,  he 
would  have  been  instantly 
stopped  and  told  it  is  bad 
form  to  comment  about 
such  things." 

Ivan  draws  himself 
up  in  his  military  dig- 
nity, and  goes  on: 


A  pen  portrait  of 
Ivan  Lebedeff 

By  Harry  Lang 


Ivan,  in  spats  and  cane,  assumes  this  attitude  just 
before  he  decides  to  kiss  a  lady's  hand 


"We  kiss  the  hands  of  married  women 
— and  of  unmarried  women  only  if  they 
are  artists.  Or  of  women  between  whose 
age  and  mine  there  is  a  pronounced  differ- 
ence. We  never  kiss  the  hand  of  a  woman 
when  the  meeting  is  of  a  purely  business 
nature.  And  I  personally  make  it  a  rule 
never  to  kiss  the  hand  of  a  woman,  no 
matter  what  the  occasion,  if  I  feel  she  is 
the  type  who  might  be  embarrassed  by 
the  act." 

EVEN  aside  from  his  hand-kissing 
forays,  Lebedeff  is  one  of  the  most  un- 
usually unusual  men  in  Hollywood,  where 
to  be  unusual  is  usually  usual. 

He  never  wears  a  hat  except  when  it's 

raining.      Says   he's    more   comfortable 

without  a  hat,  but  admits  he  only  began 

going  hatless   when   he  first   came   to 

Hollywood. 

He  is  proud  of  the  type  of  masculine 
beauty  he  represents,  and  will  avoid 
anything  that  might  tend  to  destroy 
the  regularity  of  his  features.     He  is 
so  near-sighted  that  he  cannot  recog- 
nize friends,   even   when   they  are 
quite  close  to  him,  yet  he  will  not 
wear  glasses. 

He  does,  however,  carry  a  mon- 
ocle.    It  is  not,  like  most  mon- 
ocles, merely  a  disc  of  clear  glass; 
it  is,  in  Ivan's  case,  actually  a  lens. 
When  he  pops  into  a  restaurant,  he 
slips  it  into  his  eye  and  through  it,  takes 
a  quick  glance  around  to  see  if  there  is  any- 
one near  whom  he  should  recognize.    Then 
he  reads  the  menu  through  it,  and  when 
that's  done,  he  slips  it  back  into  his  pocket. 
Because  of  his  near-sightedness,  he  never 
drives   an   automobile.      He   always   uses 
taxis,  or  hired  cars.    He  is  the  only  featured 
player  in  Hollywood  who  does  not  own  a 
car. 

He  always  carries  a  walking  stick,  and  is 
easily  one  of  Hollywood's  most  strikingly 
and  immaculately  dressed  men.  The  reason 
he  carries  a  stick  is  because,  while  in 
Russian  military  service  in  his  earlier  life, 
he  formed  the  habit  of  holding  in  his  left 
hand  the  hilt  of  his  sword.  When  he  aban- 
doned the  uniform,  he  felt  so  uncomfortable 
without  something  in  his  hand  that  he 
adopted  the  habit  of  carrying  a  stick, 
always. 

HE  owns  a  half-dozen  sticks — all  bam- 
boo and  alike.  He  does  not  swing  the 
stick  when  walking.     He  carries  it  rigidly. 

He  wears  his  clothes  like  a  uniform.  He 
walks  as  though  on  parade — his  backbone 
as  stiff  as  a  night  club  convert  charge,  his 
chin  up,  and  stepping  out  like  a  company  of 
Prussian  guards.  Even  were  he  wearing  a 
mask,  you  could  pick  Lebedeff  out  of  a 
crowd  of  hundreds  by  that  walk  of  his. 

He  has  his  clothes  made  to  order,  of 
course,  and  always  in  the  same  style — 
tight-waisted  coats,  form-fitting.  His 
shirts  are  all  made  to  order.  Colors? — he 
rarely  deviates  from  brown,  gray  or  green. 

He  always  shaves  himself,  and  frequently 
twice  a  day.  He  shaves  with  two  razors — a 
safety,  and  an  old-fashioned  straight  razor. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  122  ] 

57 


"Ah,"  sighs  Sally,  "this  is 
more  like  it,"  as  she  snug- 
gles into  Frank  Albertson's 
arms  in  "The  Brat."  Away 
from  pictures  for  a  year 
while  new  faces  leered  at 
her  from  the  screen,  she 
thought  her  lucky  shamrock 
had  turned  into  a  thistle. 
Then  she  got  her  Irish  up 
and  went  out  and  fought  for 
herself.  Result  —  a  great 
screen  comeback.  Read  on, 
gentle  reader,  read  on 


How  Sally  Got  "The  Brat" 


ALLY  O'NEIL  has  made  a         D  J7       f  L  '  AJhprt 

big  comeback.  Fox  has  signed       *->  J      JVaintriftC     J~\.  I  V  1 1  I 


ll  her   to   a   five-year  contract 

^"^  Everybody  raves  about  her  work  in  "The  Brat."    The 

last  picture  she  made  before  that  was  one  year  ago.    Since  then 

Sally  has  been  out  in  the  cold.     And  then — suddenly — the 

comeback. 

In  Hollywood  you  forget  about  the  people  who  don't  work. 
Oh,  you  see  them  around  and  say  "hello"  but  they  don't  mean 
much.  After  all,  Sally  hadn't  worked  for  a  year.  The  last 
picture  she  made  was  not  good,  because  Sally's  brother  was  in 
trouble  at  the  time  and  the  nerve-strain  showed  in  her  perform- 
ance. That  idle  year  made  Sally  miserable  and  so  she  kept 
putting  deadlines  on  herself. 

"  I'll  hang  on  three  more  months,"  she'd  say,  "and  if  nothing 
happens  in  that  time,  well  .  .  ." 

And  later,  she'd  say,  "Well,  I'll  stick  around  for  a  couple  of 
months  more  and  if  nothing  happens  then,  well  .  .  ." 

Nothing  happened.  Nothing  happened — but  bad  news — for 
a  year.  But  one  day  her  manager  secured  an  interview  for  her 
with  a  local  stage  producer.  He  wanted  her  to  do  a  play  and 
gave  her  a  handful  of  scripts  to  glance  through.  Her  eye  fell  on 
that  old  favorite,  Maude  Fulton's  "The  Brat."  Sally  had 
never  heard  of  it  (she  was  playing  marbles  when  you  and  I  were 
seeing  that  one)  but  she  liked  the  title.  It  sounded  like  her,  so 
she  asked  to  do  it. 

"It's  got  whiskers  on  it,"  said  the  stage  producer. 

But  Sally  took  the  play  home  with  her.  She  read  and  re-read 
it  all  one  night.  She  loved  it  and  memorized  it  from  beginning 
to  end,  but  the  half-formed  plan  of  producing  it  as  a  play  fell 
through.  And  then  Sally  heard  that  Fox  had  bought  it  for  a 
picture. 

"I've  just  got  to  do  it,"  she  said  to  herself.  "That's  my  big 
chance — it's  now  or  never."    And  she  spent  hours  alone  in  her 

58 


room  acting  it  out  from  beginning 
to  end. 
A  few  days  later  she  picked  up  a 
paper  and  saw  an  announcement  that  either  Dorothy  Jordan 
or  Maureen  O'Sullivan  would  play  the  name  role  in  "The 
Brat." 

Sally  broke  down  in  a  good  old-fashioned  cry,  but,  like  the 
heroines  in  the  neurotic  novels,  she  didn't  feel  a  bit  better. 
That  afternoon  a  friend  of  hers,  a  priest,  called  on  her. 

"  What's  the  matter,  Sally?  "  he  asked.    "  You  look  blue."  • 

"Say,  father,  you  ought  to  know  the  answer  to  this,"  said 
Sally.  "Is  God  dead  or  has  the  depression  hit  heaven?"  And 
she  told,  him  about  "The  Brat"  and  Dorothy  Jordan  and 
Maureen  O'Sullivan. 

The  priest  read  the  script.  "  Why,  this  was  written  for  you  " 
he  said.    "Who's  directing  it?" 

"John  Ford,"  wailed  Sally. 

"You  wait  here,"  said  the  priest.  "I  know  Jack  Ford.  I'm 
going  to  have  a  talk  with  him!" 

The  next  day  Sally  was  called  to  the  studio  for  a  test. 

"I  don't  expect  you  to  know  anything  about  this  part,"  said 
Ford  to  her,  "the  play  was  before  your  time,  but  you  take  the 
test  and  just  ad  lib  lines  such  as  you  think  a  kid  like  that  would 
say." 

Sally  said  a  little  prayer,  walked  before  the  camera  and  began 
reciting  the  play  scene  by  scene.  She  was  letter  perfect  and 
Ford  spent  five  hours  taking  that  one  test.  When  it  was 
finished  he  had  a  complete  outline  of  the  entire  play. 

And  that's  how  Sally  O'Neil  got  the  part  and  the  five-year 
contract  and  the  biggest  chance  at  a  comeback  anybody  ever 
had. 

With  tears  in  those  ridiculously  big  eyes  of  hers  she  says, 
"God  did  that — I  know  He  did.  'God  helps  those  who  help 
themselves'  is  my  motto  from  now  on." 


Seymour   Says — 
The   Screen   Reflects   Fashion 

In   Her   Best   Role 


WHITE  SATIN 


THIS  stunning  picture  of  Marilyn  Miller  might  well  be 
titled  "Rhapsody  in  White."  Certainly  there  isn't  a 
detail  that  strikes  a  false  note.  White  is  still  high  in 
evening  fashions,  and  when  it  is  white  satin,  nothing  is 
smarter.  This  gown  of  Marilyn's  has  the  fitted  bodice 
and  draped  hipline  that  is  new.  Interesting  diagonal 
tying  of  the  narrow  scarf.  There's  a  discreet  bit  of 
beading  on  the  shoulders,  if  you  look  closely.  The  skirt 
is  full,  but  almost  straight — and  slipper  length.  Nice 
slippers  in  satin,  by  the  way. 


One   Dress   Can   Play   Lead    For! 
Several   Winter  Wraps 


USUALLY  one  coat  does  duty  for  several 
dresses — but  Ruth  Hall  reverses  the  idea  and 
has  one  frock  play  up  to  several  wraps.  For  evening 
she  picks  an  almost  straight  line  black  velvet  gown. 
That  molded  hipline  and  snug  bodice  are  smart. 
And  I  think  using  that  draped  scarf  of  silver 
sequins  as  the  only  trimming  is  a  clever  touch. 
Good  taste  in  the  court  earrings.  You  should  have 
one  frock  like  this.    It's  practical. 


FEELING  rather  elegant  one  evening,  Ruth 
wears  this  short  ermine  bolero  with  the 
velvet  frock.    The  sleeves  flare  out  at  the 
wrists  and  are  scalloped.    That  bow  tie  of 
fur  is  new.    An  inexpensive  version  of  this 
in  white  hare  would  be  equally  smart. 


HERE'S  the  period  trend  in  a  velvet  jacket 
with  leg  o'mutton  sleeve  fullness.  Notice 
that   the    fullness   comes   below   the    close 
tucking.    I   like  that  soft,  draped  neckline, 
don't  you?  It's  flattering. 


HERE'S  the  perfect  all  round  fur  coat — gray 
kidskin.  Note  the  straight  lines,  deeprevers, 
button  closing  and  swagger  pockets.  That 
green  leather  belt  matches  the  buttons — nice 
touch.  Worn  over  the  jersey  frock,  shown 
above.  An  inexpensive  but  very  wearable 
coat  for  any  girl. 


LOOK  at  those  sleeves!  If  they  don't  date 
back  a  century  I  don't  know  my  fashions. 
This  black  dress  coat  has  so  many  good  points 
I'll  have  to  enumerate  them.  There's  the  fabric — 
a  new  woolen  in  boucle  weave.  And  the 
white  galyac  Ascot  and  sleeve  banding.  The 
ine  of  the  coat,  too,  almost  straight  and  but- 
toned at  one  side  with  buttons  high  at  the  neck 
and  again  just  below  the  waist.  Ruth  wears  the 
jersey  with  it,  also. 


Copy  The   Stars   In   Buying 


F  YOU  want  to  look  romantic  this  season,  I  suggest  an 
ostrich  feather  on  your  hat.  Doesn't  Karen  Morley 
look  the  part  in  this  black  felt  hat  with  white  ostrich 
plume  at  one  side?  This  is  one  of  the  modified  types  of 
romantic  headgear.  The  black  and  white  bead  necklace 
has  three  more  strands  and  is  one  of  the  smartest  I've  seen. 


"niCH  MAN'S  FOLLY"  is  the  title  of  the 
■  ^  picture  in  which  this  suit  of  Frances  Dee's 
appears.  The  title  would  lead  you  to  expect 
extravagant  costumes,  but  certainly  this  is  the 
height  of  conservative  good  taste.  I  like  that 
double-breasted,  fitted  jacket.  And  that  high 
white  collar  is  decidedly  new  and  youthful. 
Nice  accessories,  Frances.  Trim  black  suede 
bag,  kid  pumps  and  black  suede  gloves.  Oh, 
yes,  the  suit  is  black  woolen,  the  blouse  white 
silk  pique.  You  could  wear  this  all  Winter 
under  your  fur  coat. 


EVERYONE  seems  to  have  a 
L-  feather  in  the  hat  this  year. 
Here's  Karen  Morley  again,  but  this 
time  in  a  more  tailored  mood.  Her 
black  felt  has  a  rolling  brim  all 
around  and  is  worn  lower  in  the 
back.  The  feather  is  black  and  white. 


And  Wearing  The  New  Modes 


SPEAKING  of  romantic  styles,  here's  Dorothy  Jordan 
doing  it  up  in  the  grand  manner!    A  wine  velvet  hat 
has  a  sweeping  ostrich  plume  falling  from  its  brim.    You 
can't  see  it;  but  she  carries  a  quaint  muff! 


BLACK  and  white  is  still  one  ot  the  best  color 
contrasts,  all  other  bright  ones  notwithstand- 
ing. Peggy  Shannon  does  well  by  it  in  this  black 
woolen  dress  trimmed  with  white  pique.  Notice 
the  high  neckline,  fitted  bodice  and  the  side 
closing  stressed  by  white  buttons.  Those  sleeves 
are  new.  I  don't  like  your  hat,  Peggy.  You  can 
get  a  close-up  of  this  in  "The  Road  to  Reno." 


SATIN  trimmed  with  wool!  That 
is  the  latest  quirk  to  the  contrast- 
ing idea — not  only  color  contrast, 
but  now  fabric  contrast.  Ruth  Hall's 
black  satin  dress  has  two  wide 
revers,  one  in  white  satin,  the  other 
in  lipstick  red  wool  crepe. 


Gold   In   Evening   Fashions 


THOSE  divorcing  ladies  jn  "The  Road 
to  Reno"  have  a  chance  to  wear 
some  knockout  evening  clothes.  Take 
Judith  Wood,  for  instance,-  she  gets  her 
gold  in  more  than  alimony!  Her  black 
chiffon  dress  is  brocaded  all  over  in  it. 
That  scarf  draped  so  casually  over  one 
shoulder  is  seen  in  similar  guise  on  many 
of  the  season's  best  evening  dresses. 
Don't  try  to  count  those  bracelets,  you'll 
get  dizzy.  I'd  feel  happier  about  it  all 
with  a  few  less. 


N  THE  same  picture  Peggy  Shannon  wears  a 
semi-formal  dress  that  I  would  recommend  for 
any  girl.  It  is  gold  metal  cloth.  Made  simply 
with  a  fitted  bodice,  short  sleeves  and  a  tapering 
flared  skirt,ruffled  at  the  hem.  Notice  the  slipper 
length,  just  right  for  this  type  of  dress.  The 
metal  strap  slippers  to  match  are  perfect.  There's 
an  absence  of  jewelry,  you  will  note  if  you 
look  closely,-  the  dress  is  elegant  enough  by  itself. 


Elmer  Fryer 


RAGS,  even  silk  ones,  are  certainly  royal  raiment  when  Joan 
Blondell  wears  "em!  And  surely  the  widely-publicized 
Blondell  understandings  are  always  a  welcome  spectacle.  Lawk, 
what  a  pert  little  minx  it  is!  Joan's  been  busy  in  "Larceny  Lane," 
with  James  Cagney 


Why  Women  Go  Crazy 


ON  the  screen  Clark 
Gable  meets  every 
woman  with  a  challenge  in 
his  eyes,  a  mocking  grin  cul- 
minating in  a  laughing  dimple, 
an  aloofness  that  is  not  far 
distant,  and  a  skillful  parry 
for  every  attempt  to  throw 
him  off  his  guard.  An  adroit 
opponent  in  a  duel  of  sex 


About 

Clark 
Gable 


By 
James  R.  Quirk 


CLARK  GABLE  is  the  male  sensation 
of  the  screen  today  because  in  every 
role  he  has  played  the  part  of  a  man 
who  fears  neither  Jack  Dempsey  nor 
Peggy  Joyce. 

He  is  a  caveman  with  a  club  in  one  hand  and 
a  book  of  poetry  in  the  other. 

Here  is  no  tender  lover,  strumming  sweet 
love  songs;  no  smitten  cavalier  throwing  his 
mantle  over  a  puddle  to  save  the  tender 
tootsies  of  his  fair  one ;  no  ga-ga  strippling  crying 
life  is  o'er  lest  the  sweet  object  of  his  tender 
affections  will  not  permit  him  to  dedicate  his 
life,  liberty  and  fortune  to  her  eternal  whimsies. 
In  one  short  year  he  has  made  most  phenom- 
enal and  dazzling  progress.  He  may  never  achieve  the  heights  satile  actor,  paled  into  insignificance  in  his  final  victory, 
of  romantic  idolatry  of  Valentino,  nor  the  year-in  and  year-out  Is  it  that  the  ladies  and  gentlemen  of  the  audience  have  been 

box  office  assurance  of  Chaplin  or  Fairbanks;  but  there  is  no      fed  up  with  too  much  super-human  nobility,  hearts  of  gold,  and 
one  man  on  the  screen  today  whose  personality  so  intrigues  the      all  that  sort  of  thing  in  our  motion  picture  actors? 


Clark  Gable  has  some  of  the  qualities  that  made  Valentino  the  one 

great  idol  of  the  screen.    But  it  is  doubtful  if  he  will  ever  approach 

the  unprecedented  heights  of  Rudy's  romantic  appeal 


feminine  audience. 

A  strange  phenomenon  of 
feminine  psychology,  the  al- 
most instantaneous  success 
of  this  new  type  of  lover. 
Note  that  I  did  not  use  the 
word  "hero."  For  Clark 
Gable's  popularity  does  not 
rest  upon  the  foundation  of 
noble  deeds,  tender  passion, 
nor  self-sacrifice.  As  a  lover 
he  begins  with  indifference, 
demands  utter  submission, 
and  ends  with  either  com- 
plete and  uncompromising 
domination  or  defeat.  And 
there  is  no  defeat  in  him 
save  death. 

Ace  Wilfong,  in  "Free 
Soul,"  was  the  apex  of  a 
series  of  such  characteriza- 
tions. Jan  (Norma Shearer), 
refined  and  fragile,  glories 
in  her  infatuation  for  the 
man  to  whose  will  she  must 
and  did  yield.  The  char- 
acter of  the  noble  self-sacri- 
ficing, and  honorable  lover, 
played  by  Leslie  Howard,  a 
much  more  artistic  and  ver- 


It  was  "The  Sheik"  that  made  Valentino  the 
most  glamorous  personality  on  the  screen.  In 
that  picture  his  wooing  of  Agnes  Ayres  was  no 
more  gentle  than  the  motion  picture  love  tech- 
nique that  Clark  Gable  uses  with  such  dazzling 
success  today 


How  often  have  we 
watched  some  nin-com-poop 
of  a  fair  damsel  treat  the 
self-sacrificing  and  languish- 
ing hero  like  a  sap,  and 
make  him  go  through  all 
kinds  of  hell  to  come  into  a 
close-up  with  her  at  the 
finish,  when  all  the  time  we 
wanted  to  tip  him  off  that 
she  was  a  selfish,  dizzy  dame, 
and  not  worth  the  effort? 

On  the  screen  Clark  Gable 
meets  every  woman  with  a 
challenge  in  his  eyes,  a 
mocking  grin  culminating  in 
a  laughing  dimple,  an  aloof- 
ness that  is  not  far  distant, 
and  a  skillful  parry  for  every 
attempt  to  throw  him  off 
his  guard.  An  adroit  oppo- 
nent in  a  duel  of  sex. 

It  is  that  uncertainty 
about  him,  that  self-assur- 
edness, that  indifference  that 
interests  women.  He  is  like 
a  magnet  that  both  attracts 
and  repels.  That  complex 
mystery,  woman,  is  baffled 

[PLEASE  TURN  TO  PALI.  102]- 

67 


The  Unknown  Hollywood 


HOLLYWOOD,  ten  or 
twelve  years  ago,  was  a 
lusty  place.  There  wasn't 
a  chinchilla  coat  or  a  top 
hat  in  the  town.     And — maybe  it's 
only  because  I'm  old  enough  to  remi- 
nisce— it  seems  to  me  that  people  had 
a  lot  more  fun  then. 

I  wish  I  could  rebuild  the  place  for 
you.  A  low,  white  city,  open  to  the 
sun.  Little,  clubby.  A  friendly  town. 
There  wasn't  much  Beverly  Hills  and 
you  didn't  need  an  Oxford  telephone 
number  or  an  Oxford  accent  to  be 
admitted  into  the  Kingdom  of  God. 
There  were  a  few  limousines,  but  a 
Rolls-Royce  parked  against  the  curb 
drew  a  crowd. 

Nobody  was  grand.  Nobody  used 
a  broad  "A."  Hollywood  was  a  child, 
charming  and  naive.  Now  it's  a 
woman  of  the  world,  sparkling, 
bizarre,  hard  and  bitter,  with  a 
painted  face  and  narrow  eyes. 

It  is  natural  that  the  village  should 
become  adult,  but  don't  blame  me  for 
regretting  the  passing  of  the  Holly- 
wood I  knew. 

Last  month  I  told  you  that  D.  W. 
Griffith  went  to  New  York  leaving 
me  broken-heartedly  clutching  sepa- 
rate letters  of  introduction  to  Mary 
Pickford  and  Douglas  Fairbanks  (who 
were  not  married  to  each  other  at  the 

time).  Doug  worked  at  the  Fairbanks  Studio,  now  Tec-Art, 
and  Mary  rented  space  across  the  street  at  Brunton,  which  has 
become  Paramount's  enormous  studio.  Melrose  Avenue— now 
a  flourishing  business  street — was  then  lined  with  eucalyptus 
trees,  and  there  were  only  a  few  small  bungalows  between  the 
end  of  the  Western  Avenue  car  line  and  the  studios — seven 
long  blocks  away. 

If  my  memory  serves  me  correctly,  I  was  admitted  to  Mary 
Pickford's  dressing-room  on  the  Brunton  lot  at  once.    She  was 


By  Katherine  Albert 


"Register  fright,"  said  the  director.  And 
Katherine  Albert  turned  on  the  works 
thus  in  "The   Saphead"  12   years  ago 


Ramon  Novarro,  young  and  eager,  in  his  first  film,  "The  Lover's  Oath,"  with 
Kathleen  Key.    This  was  before  Ingram  had  discovered  Ramon 

68 


standing  erect,  with  some  sort  of 
blue  negligee  caught  about  her, 
and  her  hair — the  famous  Pick- 
ford  curls — caught  on  top  of  her  head 
with  a  couple  of  pins.  I'm  not  tall, 
but  I  towered  above  her  and  she  gave 
me  the  smallest  hand  I've  ever  felt, 
in  a  brief,  firm  clasp.  Her  voice  was 
brisk  and  crisp  and,  although  she  was 
pleasant,  she  smiled  not  at  all. 

I've  seen  her  dozens  of  times  since, 
of  course,  and  only  on  the  rarest  of 
occasions  have  I  known  her  to  smile. 
I  can't  remember  ever  hearing  her 
laugh  heartily. 

I  discovered  that  I  couldn't  talk  to 
her — too  calm,  too  impersonal,  too 
distantly  polite.  Nothing  at  all 
passed  between  us.  She  was  sweet. 
She  was  businesslike.  She  promised 
me — quickly  and  conclusively — a  bit 
in  "Pollyanna"  on  which  she  was 
working.  Later  I  learned  that  this 
standomshnessis  defense  mechanism. 

ONLY  a  few  months  ago  she  came 
to  a  tea  which  I  attended.  She 
arrived  late.  She  was  unsmiling.  The 
hostess  met  her  at  the  door.  Mary 
clung  to  her,  looking  at  the  guests — 
there  were  a  hundred  or  more — who 
filled  the  lobby  of  the  Chateau  Elysee. 
"Walk  in  with  me,"  she  said.  "I'm 
always  terrified  of  going  into  a  room 
where  there  are  so  many  people."  And  yet  her  arrival  had 
caused  a  hush  to  fall.  In  spite  of  her  timidity — which  is  often 
mistaken  for  something  else — she  remains  the  reigning  queen  of 
Hollywood. 

Leaving  Pickford,  I  went  across  the  street  to  discover  that 
Fairbanks  was  not  in  but  that  director  Victor  Fleming,  who  was 
later  to  become  engaged  to  Clara  Bow,  would  see  me.  He  is  a 
tall,  loose-jointed  man  and  I  remember  him  as  he  sat,  hunched 
down  in  his  chair,  legs  sprawled  out  in  front  of  him,  looking  at 
me  through  half-closed  eyes. 

I  could  talk  to  him.  I  did,  telling  him  my 
ridiculous  hopes,  my  vain  ambitions.  Once  or 
twice  he  laughed.  But  he  was  sensitive,  under- 
standing, and  I'm  sure  a  person  as  naive  and 
quaint  as  I  was  an  anomaly  to  him. 

Finally  he  stopped  me  and  called  in  a  Mr. 
Smith  who  looked  me  over,  in  a  kindly  fashion, 
and  said  I  might  have  a  part  in  a  picture  he 
was  to  do  if  I'd  "come  back  in  two  weeks."  I 
didn't  know  then  that  that  was — and  still  is — 
Hollywood's  favorite  alibi.  But,  immensely 
elated  with  prospects  of  two  jobs,  I  walked  to 
the  Western  Avenue  car  line. 

IN  a  very  few  days  Pickford's  casting  man 
called  me,  but  the  "bit"  in  "Pollyanna" 
turned  out  to  be  one  day's  extra  work  with  a 
bunch  of  kids  much  younger  than  I,  which 
gave  me  no  chance  to  "emote."  However,  I 
still  had  the  promised  "part"  from  Mr.  Smith. 
Two  weeks  to  the  day  after  I'd  seen  him  I 
again  presented  myself  at  Fairbanks  Studios 
and  asked  for  Mr.  Smith.  The  office  boy  gave 
me  a  withering  glance.  "He  ain't  been  here 
for  ten  days,"  he  said,  and  then,  seeing  the 
quick  tears  that  sprang  to  my  eyes,  he  added, 
"I  think  he  went  to  Metro." 

Metro  is  a  good  two  and  a  half  miles  from 
Fairbanks.  There  was  no  crosstown  trans- 
portation. It  had  begun  to  rain — just  to  make 
things  more  devastating  for  me — and  I  walked 


I  K 


now 


Part  Two 

Another  fascinat- 
ing never-told 
story  of  the  studios 
in  which  you  learn 
things  about  your 
favorites  you  didn't 
know  before 


that  weary  route  so  many  have  taken  with  the  tears  mingling 
with  raindrops  on  my  cheeks. 

The  Metro  Studios  was  one  of  the  biggest  then  and  a  brilliant 
array  of  stars  have  shone  out  from  those  low,  white  buildings. 
It  is  old  and  gray  and  hoary  now — waiting  patiently  like  some 
octogenarian  for  the  leprous  ringer  of  time  to  completely  de- 
molish it. 

Those  who  live  nearby  whisper  that  the  place  is  haunted  and 
that  the  ghosts  of  Rudolph  Valentino,  Barbara  LaMarr  and 
Harold  Lockwood  still  stalk  those  musty  stages  and  that  the 
whirr  of  cameras  which  caught  their  beauty  may  still  be  heard 
at  night. 

Then,  all  was  bustle  and  activity  and  when  I  asked — through 
my  tears — for  Mr.  Smith,  the  gateman  laughed.  "Well,  girlie, 
we  got  about  a  hundred  Mr.  Smiths  working  here.  What  does 
he  do?" 

IT  occurred  to  me  that  I  didn't  know  whether  he  was  a  writer 
or  a  director  or  an  actor  or  a  supervisor.    "He's  going  to  make 
a  picture,"  I  said.    "He's  only  been  here  a  little  while." 

"You  wouldn't  by  any  chance  mean  Winchell  Smith,  now?" 

Well,  I'd  read  my  theatrical  news  and  the  name  of 
the  famous  playwright,  the  author  of  "The  New 
Henrietta,"  "Brewster's  Millions,"  etc.,  etc 
struck    me.      I   was   sure   I   didn't   mean 
Winchell  Smith,  but  the  gateman  called 
him  and  told  me  to  go  right  in. 

It  was  Winchell  Smith  who  smiled 
and  said,  "I  was  going  to  call  you." 
And  he  led  me  to  the  casting  office, 
where  I  signed  for  a  part  to  run 
eight  weeks  at  fifty  dollars  a  week! 

A  new  world  had  opened  up.  I 
was  an  actress  now,  a  player  of 
parts.    Oh  boy,  some  fun! 

Inside,  the  studio  was  lovely, 
with  the  dressing-rooms  in  a  neat, 
whitewashed  row.  I  was  assigned 
one  with  Cleo  Madison.  Poor, 
beautiful,  tragic  Cleo.  I  used  to 
'think  her  the  victim  of  moods, 
only,  for  one  moment  she  would  be 
super-gay,  brilliant,  sparkling,  with 
a  quick  wit  and  ready  to  give  ine 
advice  about  pictures.  And  in  a 
very  short  time  she  was  silent, 
lethargic,  miserable,  sitting  with 
her  head  in  her  hands  over  her 
make-up  shelf.  Perhaps  in  an  hour 


May  Allison  was  the  most  beloved  and  charm 
ing  person  on  the  Metro  lot 


Here's  our  Mary  in  curls  and  pout  before  she  went 
sophisticated.     The   interested   "actress"   on  Pick- 
ford's  right  is  the  author  of  this  story.    "Pollyanna" 
is  the  film 


— usually  when  I'd  left  the  dressing-room  for  a  moment— she'd 
come  alive  again,  her  eyes  gleaming  like  a  Broadway  electric 
sign. 

Viola  Dana's  dressing-room  was  only  a  few  doors  away.  She 
was  not  yet  married  to  Lefty  Flynn  (poor  Vi,  poor  Lefty,  what 
devotion  she  gave  him).  She  was  at  the  peak  of  her  career,  a 
bright,  vivacious  bundle  of  energy,  and  in  love  with  the  dare- 
devil aviator,  Lieutenant  Locklear. 

She  used  to  stand  on  a  little  rustic  bridge  in  the  garden  in 
front  of  the  dressing-rooms,  while  Locklear  circled  overhead, 
coming  so  close  that  the  two  could  shout  at  each  other  while  the 
rest  of  us  (we  were  not  so  air-minded  then)  fled  for  cover.  I  can 
see  her  now — a  vivid  exclamation  point,  in  some  brightly 
colored  frock,  standing  there  waving  and  shouting  to  her  sweet- 
heart. Locklear  would  swoop  down,  almost  touching  her,  and 
then  lift  away,  running  the  wheels  of  his  plane  along 
the  roof  of  a  stage — thereby  throwing  the 
actors  into  a  panic  from  which  they  would 
not  recover  for  hours. 

Oh,  it  was  all  very  gay  and  beautiful — 

that  great  bird  and  that  small,  avid 

girl.  Some  months  later  I  watched  his 

plane  crash  into  the  earth.  It  was  at 

night  and  they  said  he  confused 

the  sky  rockets  they  had  sent  up 

with  the  ground  lights.      He  was 

mangled  beyond  recognition. 

Nazimova — I  make  the  genu- 
flexion when  I  say  the  name — was 
queen  of  the  lot.  She  did  not 
know  then  that  by  being  writer, 
actress,  director  and  supervisor  of 
all  her  pictures  she  was  killing 
herself  professionally.  When  she 
was  not  in  costume,  she  hurried 
about  the  lot,  her  hair  standing 
out  like  an  Australian  bushman's, 
her  funny  little  turned-out  feet  in 
flat-heeled,  "sensible"  shoes  and 
her  dress  of  some  dark  material, 
neither  in  style  nor  out,  a  dress 
that  could  have  been  worn  then 
[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  116  ] 


69 


"IC 


annot 


Wri 


ite 


Th 


at 


Story 


Too   darn  normal!     That's  Leila  Hyams'   publicity 
pain!     Beautiful,   talented,    wholesome,   the   lovely 
Hyams  girl  can't  break  into  headlines  with  just  a 
happy  home  life  and  not  a  whiff  of  scandal! 


That  s  what  the  writer 
said,  but  we  believe 
it  was  Leila  Hyams 
who  was  unmasked 


I  HAVE  always  said  that  I  felt  more  sorry  for  Clara  Bow 
than  for  any  girl  in  pictures.     Because  she  is  too-much- 
talked-about. 
I've  changed  my  mind.     I  feel  more  sorry  for  Leila 
Hyams.    Because  she  is  not-enough-talked-about! 

For  five  years  I  have  been  wanting  to  write  a  story  about 
Leila.  She  is  one  of  the  girls  in  this  business  whose  friendship 
I  really  cherish. 

She's  normal  and  healthy  and  capable  and  honest.  She  has 
a  beautiful  home,  a  successful,  charming-companion  husband: 
manager-of-stars  Phil  Berg. 

She's  a  good  bridge  player,  an  excellent  swimmer,  a  hostess 
and  guest  trained  to  the  best  manner.  In  addition,  she's 
sublimely  beautiful,  with  the  cultured  features  and  grace 
accredited  by  history  to  the  Greek  goddess. 

But  I  can't  write  a  story  about  her. 

Incidentally,  she's  a  capable  actress.  So  capable  that  for 
two  years  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  didn't  give  her  three  days 
in  succession  between  pictures.  Leading  lady  three  times  for 
John  Gilbert;  innumerable  times  for  William  Haines;  for 
Robert  Montgomery,  Buster  Keaton,  etc.  The  etc.  includes 
every  male  star  whom  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  has  employed 
in  three  years. 

And  when  you've  said  that,  you've  said  all  there  is  to  say 
about  Leila. 

Yet  there  must  be  color  and  glamour  and  romance  sup- 
pressed within  her  which  eludes  the  eye  of  a  writer  but  not 
the  eye  of  the  camera. 

Otherwise,  why  the  letters  which  pour  into  Photoplay 
asking,  "Why  don't  we  see  more  of  Leila  Hyams?  Why  not 
give  her  better  pictures?  Why  don't  you  run  a  story  about 
her?" 

Shearer,  Crawford,  Garbo!  All  M-G-M  headliners.  Leila 
is  at  the  same  studio.  She's  more  beautiful  than  any  of  the 
three;  yet,  when  I  read  those  letters,  I  knew  I  couldn't  write 
a  story  about  her.     She's  so  darned  normal. 

But  when  the  order  (and  the  letters  which  motivated  the 
command)  came  from  the  editor  of  Photoplay,  I  gritted  my 
teeth  and  went  out  to  see  her.  [please  turn  to  page  111  ] 


The  Screen  Is  Leila's  Only  Publicity 


70 


By    Ruth   Lei be r 


But  I  Can 

Unmask  Jean 


Had 


ow: 


r 


HOLLYWOOD  has  been  mistaken  in  Jean  Harlow. 
Hollywood  is  frequently  mistaken  in  first  impres- 
sions of  newcomers.  It  is  prone  to  take  them  on  their 
figure-value  as  well  as  their  face-value. 

Really,  unless  you  have  lived  in  this  city  and  become  a 
member  of  the  inner-circle  gossips,  you  may  not  be  able  to 
understand  just  what  Jean's  figure  has  done  for  her  as  well  as 
to  her. 

Of  course,  "Hell's  Angels"  had  much  to  do  with  the  card- 
cataloging  of  Jean.  In  this  picture  she  was  all  bad.  Her 
gorgeous  figure,  lavishly  exposed,  stamped  her  as  a  bad,  bad 
vampire. 

The  moment  it  was  released  she  was  classified  as  the  most 
sensational  sex-appealer  in  pictures.  Both  professionally  and 
personally. 

In  all  fairness,  however,  I  cannot  say  that  the  picture  and 
Hollywood  were  entirely  to  blame.  Jean  Harlow  comes  in  for 
a  little  of  the  censure. 

You  see,  this  was  not  Jean's  first  picture.  Oh,  I  don't  refer 
to  her  original  contract  with  Hal  Roach  which  was  broken  by 
mutual  consent  because  millionaire  grandfather,  S.  D.  Harlow 
of  Kansas  City,  said  he'd  disinherit  her  if  she  didn't  leave 
pictures.  That  was  three  years  ago.  I  refer  to  her  little  role 
in  Clara  Bow's  "Saturday  Night  Kid,"  her  parts  as  a  glorified 
extra  girl  at  $15  a  day  (anything  over  $10  makes  it  "glorified"), 
her  tiny  bit  in  "Paramount  on  Parade."  Jean  was  not  a  new- 
comer, as  Howard  Hughes'  publicity  venders  would  have  had 
us  believe.  She  was  just  another  young  daughter  of  the 
Middle  West  determined  to  get  a  foothold  on  the  magic  carpet 
of  motion  pictures. 

But  being  herself  didn't  help  that  ambition  much.  Her 
foot  had  slipped  about  a  bit  on  the  carpet  but  it  hadn't  even 
approached  a  spot  which  hinted  of  a  permanent  position. 

And  then — "Hell's  Angels."  The  platinum  blonde  vamp; 
the  most  sexy  find  of  the  talkie  era.    Hot  diggidy! 

She  determined  to  live  up  to  that.  With  all  the  hectic, 
jumbled  emotions  of  her  eighteen  years  she  made  her  decision. 
"If  being  a  vamp,  a  sex-wonder,  is  going  to  make  me  a  success, 
I'll  be  one  in  earnest."  [  please  turn  to  page  112  ] 


Poor  Jean  Harlow!     Why  poor,  you  ask?    Because, 

trying  to  act  socially  as  she  looked  and  performed 

in  her  siren  roles,  Jean  fell   afoul  of  Hollywood's 

gossip-hounds — and  it  hurt,  badly 


Gossip-Mongers  Manufacture  Jean's 


71 


Photographs  by  Hurrell 


THE  greatest  little  showman  of  them  all — every 
move  a  picture,  and  a  peppy  one !  Here  Lupe 
Velez  plays  the  coy  maiden.  The  next  minute  she 
may  waft  a  shoe  at  the  butler 


72 


The  Best  Showman 


H 


"OLLYWOODisatown 

of  showmen  and  show- 
women;  folk  who  make 
*a  living  from  acts — on 
the  screen  and  off.  Each  has  a 
specialty,  head-lined  perform- 
ance. 

Garbo  and  mystery;  Lilyan 
Tashman  and  sophistication; 
Janet  Gaynor  and  wistfulness; 
Constance  Bennett  and  money; 
Clara  Bow  and  sex-appeal.  Take 
any  of  the  truly  big  names  and 
you'll  find  you  can  classify  the 
personalities  behind  them  as 
definitely  as  canneries  classify 
packed  fruits  by  labels. 

Which  is  as  it  should  be,  of 
course.  The  stars  sell  their  per- 
sonalities; they  must  be  adapted 
to  labels.  And  the  star  who  can 
develop  the  best  personality 
reaches  the  big  money  the  fast- 
est, just  as  high-grade  peaches 
bring  more  per  can  than  low- 
grade. 

Now,  I'm  going  to  make  a 
startling  statement.  One  which 
may  bring  the  wrath  of  Holly- 
wood upon  me.  I  think  Greta 
Garbo  may  object  to  this  state- 
ment! For  even  Greta  hates  to 
have  her  thunder  stolen  from 
her.  She  thinks  she's  the  best 
showman  in  Hollywood,  but — 

Lupe  Ve/cz,  Mexican  spit-fire, 
wins  first  honors.  She  is  the  best 
showman  or  showwoman  in  the 
entire  profession. 


I 


n  Town 


The  whole  life  of  loop- 
the-Lupe  Velez  is  an  act — 
but  what  an  exciting  one! 


I  HAVE  known  Lupe  since  her 
earliest  days  in  this  business. 
I  lived  next  door  to  her;  took 
care  of  her  when  she  needed  care 
—  which  was  seldom.  I  went 
through  the  Al  Jolson,  Tom  Mix, 
Gary  Cooper  episodes  with  her. 
And  I  say  she  is  the  best  show- 
man because  I  know  she  is  the 
most  natural,  the  most  primitive, 
the  most  unaffected  offspring  of 
an  affected  generation. 

Her  entire  life  is  an  act.  There 
is  never  a  moment  when  she  is 
not  emoting — putting  on  a  show 
as  definitely  as  a  vaudeville  per- 
former before  a  filled  house. 

Only  Lupe  doesn't  need  the 
full  house.  She  acts  for  her 
mother,  her  secretary,  her  serv- 
ants, her  friends — herself  even. 

She  tells  of  her  childhood:  "I  used  to  act  before  a  mirror."  She 
still  acts  before  one.  I  have  slipped  to  her  bedroom  un- 
announced and  seen  her  parading  before  a  mirror — showing  off 
herself  to  herself  as  openly  and  unconsciously  as  small  children 
show  off  before  company. 

Lupe  recently  told  me:  "There  are  times  when  yon  want  to 
scream.  I  know  it;  I  have  seen  the  times.  But  you  don't,  be- 
cause you  are  afraid  of  what  people  will  think  of  you.  I  am  not 
afraid.  Why  should  I  be?  If  I  want  to  scream,  I  scream.  To 
hell  with  what  they  think  of  me." 

The  truth.  I  have  heard  her  do  it.  ' 

Certainly.  But  an  act  as  natural 
as  the  one  nature  puts  on  when  it  has 
two  clouds  collide  to  produce  light- 


ning and  thunder.  So  what's 
to  be  done  about  it  ? 

"I  do  as  I  please  because  I  get 
more  fun  out  of  life.  I  laugh;  I 
get  mad;  I  cry.  I  like  to  laugh; 
I  get  fun  out  of  being  mad;  I 
enjoy  crying.  When  I  feel  like 
crying,  I  am  happier  to  cry. 

"Other  people  like  to  see  me, 
too.  I  am  always  different.  I 
am  always  interesting.  I  know 
that,  too.  They  even  envy  me 
because  I  am  myself;  that  is  why 
they  talk  about  me. 

"Most  people  live  life  like  one 
note  on  the  piano.  Da-da-da-da." 
She  sang  it  on  the  same  note. 
"Is  that  pretty  I  ask  you?  But 
do-re-mi-fa-sol-la-ti-do.  Do-Do! 
You  go  up;  you  go  down.  You 
live  on  the  high  note ;  you  live  on 
the  low  one.  But  you  never  live 
the  same." 

We  were  in  the  Metro-Gold- 
wyn-Mayer  commissary.  She 
sang  the  monotonous  da-da-da. 
She  sang  the  scale;  jumped  from 
low  do  to  high.  Everyone  stopped 
eating  to  stare.  Lupe  was  hav- 
ing the  time  of  her  life.  So  were 
the  others! 


T 


HE  verv  fact  that  we  were  in 


'An  act!"  others  call  it. 


By  R 


u 


proof  of  Lupe's  showmanship. 
She  had  finished  her  work  in 
"The  Cuban"  with  Lawrence 
Tibbett.  I  had  made  .an  ap- 
pointment to  interview  her  at 
her  home.  Then  her  maid  tele- 
phoned asking  that  I  change  to 
the  lunchroom. 

I  laughed.  I  knew  the  motive 
behind  that  move.  It  wouldn't 
be  so  good  for  my  interview. 
Commissaries  are  noisy,  crowd- 
ed, a  natural  fence  between  the 
star  and  the  interviewer.  But 
it  would  be  a  good  act  for  Lupe! 
She  isn't  under  contract  to 
Metro.  During  the  making  of 
"The  Cuban,"  the  Metro  public- 
ity department  had  rushed 
interviewers  down  to  the  set  to 
see  Tibbett,  Karen  Morley, 
Director  W.  S.  Van  Dyke  and 
others  under  contract  to  them. 
Studios  always  push  the  public- 
ity of  those  who  earn  bread  and 
butter  from  them  and  for  them. 
Why  urge  publicity  on  others 
who  are  come-today-and-gone-tomorrow  ? 

But  why,  also,  shouldn't  Lupe  show  them  she  didn't  need  a 
publicity  department?  Why  shouldn't  she  let  that  little 
working  world  in  which  she  had  been  living  during  the  picture 
know  that  Photoplay  was  writing  a  story  about  her?  They 
couldn't  know  if  we  were  alone  in  her  home,  could  they? 

And  what  an  act  she  put  on  for  us  all.  "Hello,  baby!"  It 
didn't  make  any  difference  whether  she  was  addressing  a 
waitress  or  Ramon  Novarro.  She  pranced  out  into  the  kitchen. 
Of  course,  that  is  forbidden.  But  nothing  is  forbidden  to 
Lupe.  "What  have  you  for  me  today?"  Her  arm  around  the 
cooks,  the  bus  boys,  the  dishwashers. 
.    ~L        T)    i  „  ^.  n,  "A  special  dish  of  sliced  chicken  with 


Leaping  Lupe  Velez  holds  still  long  enough  to 

have  her  picture  taken.     This  is  the  Mexican 

Madcap  on  one  of  her  quieter  days 


I  6  f  y  tomatoes — "[please  turn  to  page  106] 


IS 


More 

Radio 

Stars 

Go 
Movie 


Well,  by  gum,  ole  Seth  Parker  got 
purty  scared  when  he  walked  into  the 
studio  and  had  to  do  his  actin'  before 
all  those  folks.  'Tain't  like  that  up  at 
the  radio  station. 

The  microphone  is  no  novelty  to 
Seth  and  his  troupe.  You've  heard 
them  broadcasting  every  Sunday  eve- 
ning. But  the  camera  is  something  else 
again.  This  grand  action  picture  was 
caught  at  the  Radio  Pictures  Studios 
where  Seth  and  his  crowd  are  making 
a  picture  called  "Other  People's 
Business,"  and  in  addition  to  the 
original  troupe  Bette  Davis,  Frank 
Albertson  and  little  Frankie  Darro 
have  been  added  to  the  cast. 

In  the  actual  scene  you'll  discover 
(standing  left  to  right)  Raymond 
Hunter,  Cap'n;  Sophia  Lord,  Liz; 
Bennett  Kilpack,  Cephas;  and  (seated) 
Efne  Palmer,  Ala  Parker,  and  Philips 
Lord,  Seth  Parker.  That's  all  you'll 
get  when  you  see  the  picture. 

In  the  working  crew— that  strange 
power  behind  the  throne — you'll  find 
the  script  girl,  the  dialogue  girl,  director 
Bill  Seiter,  assistant  director  Sam  Nel- 
son, second  assistant  director  Eddie 
Kelley  and  head  cameraman  J.  Roy 
Hunt.  It  takes  a  lot  of  folks — fore  and 
aft — to  make  a  movie. 


Photograph  by  Stagg 


74 


75 


Richee 


CUNSH1NE  and  shadow,  or  what'll  you  have,  dark  or 
^light?  Two  glittering  diggers  of  gold  await  the  coming 
of  two  susceptible  gentlemen  with  two  plump  bankrolls. 
And  will  they  get  their  men !  Blonde  Lilyan  Tashman  and 
raven -haired  Kay  Francis  as  they  look  in  Paramount's 
"Girls  About  Town,"  an  epic  of  the  merry  maidens 


76 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 

MRS  Alfred  Victor  du  font 


77 


Blonde,  irresistible,  she  is  one  of  the  most  gifted  younger  hostesses  of  Wilmington  and  Philadelphia 

whose  cameo  complexion  is  part 


n 


ot  ner  gracious  living 


livi 


SHE  stepped  out  of  one  of  the  lead- 
ing women's  colleges,  married  .  .  . 
and  was  catapulted  into  a  life  of  travel 
which  necessitated  her  meeting  people 
of  all  sorts  .  .  . 

They  fell  promptly  under  her  spell, 
for  Mrs.  du  Pont  is  typical  of  the  very 
young  matron  of  distinguished  back- 
ground in  her  varied  enthusiasms,  her 
poise  and  her  common  sense. 

Her  cameo  complexion  has  the  ex- 
quisite delicacy  of  a  Fragonard  portrait 
. .  .  "Why  do  I  use  Pond's?"  Mrs.  du 


Pont  asks.  "I  have  excellent  reasons  .  .  . 
the  method  is  so  simple  and  quick  .  .  . 
it  does  wonders  for  your  skin  .  .  .  and 
you  can  buy  Pond's  everywhere  you 
go,  which  is  a  comfort." 

Four  simple  steps  for  exquisite  skin: 

1.  Generously  apply  Pond's  Cold  Cream  for 
pore-deep  cleansing  of  your  face  and  neck, 
several  times  a  day,  always  after  exposure. 
Let  the  fine  oils  sink  deep  into  the  pores  and 
float  the  dirt  to  the  surface  ...  at  bedtime, 
repeat  this  all-important  cleansing  to  re- 
move the  day's  accumulation  of  grime. 


2.  Wipeaway  with  Pond's  Cleansing  Tissues, 
less  expensive  yet  more  efficient  because 
softer  and  half  again  more  absorbent  .  .  . 
They  come  in  white  or  peach  color. 

3.  Pat  cleansed  skin  briskly  with  Pond's 
Skin  Freshener  to  tone  and  firm,  banish 
oiliness,  close  pores  and  refine  skin  texture. 

4.  Always  before  you  powder,  smooth  on 
Pond's  Vanishing  Cream  to  make  powder 
go  on  evenly  and  last  longer.  It  disguises 
blemishes  and  gives  an  exquisite  finish  .  . . 
I  se  Vanishing  Cream  wherever  you  powder 
— neck,  shoulders,  arms  .  .  .  And  on  your 
hands  to  keep  them  smooth  and  white. 


The  secret  of  a  cameo  complexion  is  here  revealed,  Pond's  four  preparations  for  the  care  of  the  skin 


Send 

10jf  FOR 

Pond's 

Foun 

Preparations 

PONDS  EXTRACT  COMPANY 

,  Dept  Y 

114  Hudson  Street 

.     .     .     New 

York  City 

Name 

Street 

City 

Stale 

Copyright.  1931.  Pood's  Extract  Company 

Tune  in  on  Pond's  Fridays  9:30  P.  M.,  E.  S.  T.,  Leo  Reisman  and  his  Orchestra,  WEAF  and  N.  B.  C.  Network 


7°  Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 

"/fs  frue  tU 
am  OO    !  says 

CLARA  Kl  M  BALL 


YOUNG 


Acw 


I  REALLY  AM  38  years  old,"  depend  on  the  gentle  lather  of 

says   Clara   Kimball   Young,  this  nice  soap  to  keep  my  skin 

^lA/lAsV^^                   "And  I  don't  mind  admitting  it  youthfully  smooth  and  fresh." 

I     /~>    l  *0a/1                because  nowadays  it  isn't  birth-  ,_       .           --„  ,»  » 

/     CcM^1               days  that  count  How  9  out  of  10  Hollywood  Stars 

gCidO         "The  woman  who  knows  how  Guard  Complexion  Beauty 


LaW^ 


to  keep  the  lovely  sparkling  In  Hollywood,  of  the  613  impor- 

freshness  of  youth  can  be  charm-  tant  actresses,  including  all  stars, 

A                    a/I  CL/tf-         *ng  at  almost  any  aSe-  Stage  and  actually  605  use  fragrant  white 

\lO    lAs^st        I            screen   stars    guard   complexion  Lux  Toilet  Soap !  It  is  the  offi- 

l       y  siYl/?           beauty  above  all.    They  know  cial  soap  in  all  the  great  film 

/7 tJU    *^~^                tnat  a  skm  smoothly  soft  is  al-  studios.    It  is  found  in  theatres 

\X^^                                 ways  appealing.  throughout  the  country ! 

"Several  years  ago  I  discovered 

that  regular  care  with  Lux  Toilet  CLARA    KIMBALL    YOUNG -who  is 

Soap  WOuld  keep  my  skin  in  WOn-  appearing    in    Radio   Pictures'    "Kept    Hus- 
bands," after  an  absence  from  the  screen  of 


^P 


many  years.  Who  would  dream,  looking  at 


derful  condition,  and  now  that  I 

have    returned    tO    the    Screen,    I       this  recent  picture,  that  she  is  38  years  old! 

Lux  Toilet 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


79 


Soap_io4 


0 


uestions 


&A 


nswers 


At  four,  Madge  Evans  was 
a  screen  actress.  Grown 
up  now,  she's  been  redis- 
covered   by    movie-goers 


Read  This  Before  Asking  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call  for  unduly  long  answers,  such  as  synopses 
of  plays.  Do  not  inquire  concerning  religion,  scenario  writing,  or 
studio  employment.  Write  on  only  one  side  of  the  paper.  Sign  your  full 
name  and  address.  If  you  want  a  personal  reply,  enclose  a  stamped, 
self-addressed  envelope. 


Casts  and  Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much  space,  we  treat  such  subjects  in  a  different 
way  from  other  questions.  For  this  kind  of  information,  a  stamped, 
self-addressed  envelope  must  always  be  sent.  Address  all  inquiries  to 
Questions  and  Answers,  Photoplay  Magazine,  221  W.  57th  St., 
New  York  City. 


Miss  P.  C.  J.,  Sacramento,  Calif. — Rin- 
Tin-Tin  is  still  making  pictures.  Serials,  to  be 
exact.  Joan  Marsh  was  born  in  Porterville, 
Calif.,  on  July  10,  1914.  Her  latest  picture  is 
"Politics." 


THIS  month  the  Answer  Man  was  deluged 
with  questions  about  "that  new  actress," 
Madge  Evans.  Most  of  the  fans  really 
believe  that  Madge  is  new  to  pictures,  but  the 
truth  of  the  matter  is  that  she  is  an  old-timer. 
Not  in  vears,  of  course,  as  Madge  first  saw  light 
on  August  1,  1909. 

At  the  age  of  six  months  she  began  her  career 
when  she  posed  for  commercial  artists.  At  four 
she  became  a  screen  actress  and  for  several 
years  played  child  parts,  starring  in  a  series  of 
children's  pictures.  When  she  outgrew  these 
roles  she  was  sent  to  Europe  to  school. 

At  seventeen  she  made  her  first  Broadway 
appearance  in  "Daisy-Mame."  M-G-M  took 
her  from  the  stage  and  gave  her  the  lead 
opposite  Ramon  Novarro  in  "Son  of  India." 
Since  then  she  has  played  in  "Sporting  Blood," 
"Guilty  Hands,"  and  "West  of  Broadway." 
Madge  is  5  feet,  4,  weighs  116  and  has  golden 
hair  and  blue  eyes.    She  is  still  single. 

Hardie  Albright  is  runner-up  to  Madge  in 
this  month's  mail  bag.  Hardie  is  a  real  new- 
comer, having  entered  pictures  in  February, 
1931.  Fox  scouts  discovered  him  playing  on 
the  stage  in  New  York  in  "The  Greeks  Had  a 
Word  for  It,"  and  signed  him  for  talkies. 

He  began  his  stage  work  after  graduating 
from  Carnegie  Institute  with  a  B.  A.  degree. 
He  was  the  juvenile  lead  in  "Cradle  Song," 
"Young  Sinners,"  and  several  George  Arliss 
plays.  His  first  screen  appearance  was  in 
"Young  Sinners,"  with  Thomas  Meighan  and 
Dorothy  Jordan.  This  was  followed  by  "  Hush 
Money"  and  "Skyline." 

Hardie  was  born  in  Charleroi,  Penna.,  a 
suburb  of  Pittsburgh,  on  December  16,  1905. 
He  is  6  feet  tall,  weighs  160  and  has  medium 
brown  hair  and  blue  eyes.  At  this  writing  he  is 
still  fancy  free.  Fancy  that,  with  all  those 
fascinating  girls  in  Hollywood! 

Edith  Brown,  New  Zealand — Bill  Haines 
is  an  example  of  how  a  young  chap  can  make 
good  in  pictures  without  having  previous  stage 
or  screen  experience.  Bill  was  chosen  by 
Samuel  Goldwyn  in  a  nation-wide  search  for 
new  faces  for  the  screen.  That  was  in  1922. 
Bill  worked  hard  and  is  now  listed  among  the 
best  known  leading  men.  He  was  born  in 
Staunton,  Va.,  on  January  1,  1900. 

Dorothy  Sanders,  Amite,  La. — You  get 
your  wish,  Dot.  Joan  Crawford  is  letting  her 
hair  go  back  to  its  natural  shade  of  red- 
brown.  Marjorie  White  was  the  cute  little 
trick  you  saw  with  grinning  Joe  Brown  in 
"Broad  Minded."  Connie  Bennett  confesses 
that  her  birth  date  is  October  3,  1905.  She  is  a 
native  of  New  York  City. 

80 


Dorothy  Wenz,  Petoskey,  Mich. — And  I 
thought  it  was  Russia!  The  blonde  Evelyn 
Laye  is  a  product  of  London,  England. 
Kathlyn  Williams  was  the  woman  who  visited 
the  college  with  Warner  Baxter  in  "Daddy 
Long  Legs." 

Irene  Beratto,  Pittsburg,  Calif. — Nancy 
Carroll's  new  hubby  is  Bolton  Mallory.  They 
were  married  on  July  3,  1931.  Nancy  has  a 
five-year-old  daughter,  Patricia  Kirkland,  by 
her  first  marriage. 

L.  K.  of  Wisconsin — You  got  the  wrong 
impression  when  you  read  that  "Trader  Horn" 
cost  Mrs.  Renaldo  her  husband.  It  didn't 
mean  that  he  died.  Mrs.  Renaldo  lost  him 
through  the  divorce  courts.    Ho  hum! 

M.  M.,  Aberdeen,  Scotland — Photoplay 
printed  an  article  about  Edward  G.  Robinson 
in  the  April,  1931,  issue.  You  can  get  that 
issue  by  sending  25c  to  Photoplay  Magazine, 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

W.  D.  McMurray,  Smyrna,  Tenn. — Anita 
Louise  played  the  role  of  Helen  Twelvetrees' 
daughter  in  "Millie."  Anita  was  born  in  New 
York  City  on  January  9,  1917.  Her  real  name 
is  Anita  Louise  Fremault. 

J.  I.  H.,  Aldan,  Pa. — You're  right.  John 
Arledge  played  the  role  of  Jimmy  in  "Daddy 
Long  Legs."  John  was  born  in  Crockett, 
Texas,  on  March  12,  1907.  He  is  6  feet  tall, 
weighs  140  and  has  gray-blue  eyes  and  wavy 
blond  hair.  Was  educated  in  Crockett  Schools 
and  attended  the  University  of  Texas  for  two 
years.  Was  once  a  piano  player  in  Paul 
Whiteman's  orchestra.  Latest  picture  is  "The 
Spider." 

A  Photoplay  Reader  —  Gary  Cooper 
played  the  part  of  Cadet  White  in  "Wings." 
After  appearing  on  the  screen  for  just  a  few 
minutes,  he  made  a  quick  exit  via  a  plane 
crash.  James  Hall  and  Ben  Lyon  played  the 
leads  in  "Hell's  Angels."  Gary  did  not  appear 
in  this  picture  at  all. 

Marlin  Clark,  Hillsdale,  Mich. — Irene 
Purcell  was  born  in  Hammond,  Ind.,  and 
educated  at  the  Anne  Morgan  School  in 
Chicago.  She  appeared  on  the  stage  in  "The 
Idol,"  "Cross  Roads,"  "Dancing  Partner," 
and  a  number  of  other  productions  before  sign- 
ing for  the  talkies.  Her  latest  picture  is  "The 
Man  in  Possession."  Lilian  Bond  was  born  in 
London  on  January  18,  1909.  She  is  5  feet,  4, 
weighs  114  and  has  auburn  hair  and  hazel  eyes. 


Hardie  Albright  deserted 
the  stage  for  the  talkies. 
Hundreds  of  picture  fans 
are  asking  about  him  now 


Appeared  on  the  stage  in  London  before  enter- 
ing pictures  in  January,  1931.  Her  latest 
picture  is  "The  Squaw  Man."  Lilian  is 
married. 

Blue  Eyes  of  Carolina — Karen  Morley 
was  the  girl  who  played  the  role  of  Maizie  in 
"Never  the  Twain  Shall  Meet."  She  was  also 
the  discarded  sweetheart  who  jumped  out 
of  the  window  in  "Inspiration."  Karen  was 
good  in  a  minor  role  in  "Politics"  and  she's 
with  Garbo  in  "Susan  Lenox." 

M.  Carlton,  Miami,  Fla. — Frank  Albert- 
son  was  born  in  Fergus  Falls,  Minn.,  Feb.  2,' 
1909.  He  is  5  feet,  9,  weighs  145,  and  has 
light  brown  hair  and  blue  eyes.  Frank  and 
the  missus,  Virginia  Shelley,  were  married 
March  7, 1931. 

Mrs.  E.  Betts,  Hamilton,  N.  Y. — Who- 
ever told  you  that  Will  Rogers  was  educated 
at  Oxford  was  kidding.  Will  received  his 
schooling  at  the  Willie  Hassell  School,  in 
Neosho  ,  and  at  Kemper  Military  Academy, 
Missouri. 

Janet  Happel,  Stockertown,  Pa. — Den- 
nis King  is  delighting  radio  fans  with  his  grand 
tenor  voice.  He  broadcasts  over  Station 
WABC,  in  New  York.  Dennis  was  born  in 
Warwickshire,  England,  Nov.  2,  1897,  the  son 
of  Elizabeth  King  and  John  Pratt.  He  is 
married  to  Edith  Wright.  Estelle  Taylor  was 
born  in  Wilmington,  Del.,  May  20,  1900. 

Norman  Elder,  London,  Eng. — Your  little 
hometown  has  quite  a  few  representatives  in 
the  Hollywood  film  colony.  There  are  Clive 
Brook,  Charlie  Chaplin,  John  Loder,  George 
Arliss,  Roland  Young,  Victor  McLaglen  and 
Ralph  Forbes,  all  from  London.  Ronnie  Col 
man  hails  from  Richmond,  Surrey,  and  An- 
thony Bushell  from  Westerham,  Kent. 
Enough  for  a  baseball  team  and  they'd  sure 
draw  a  crowd. 

Rosa  Novarro,  Rozale,  Cuba — Any  rela- 
tion to  Ramon?  You  sure  have  a  grand  mem- 
ory, Rosa.  Tom  Douglas  who  recently  signed 
up  for  the  talkies  is  the  same  Tom  who  ap- 
peared in  silent  pictures  back  in  1920.  Of 
course  he  was  just  a  kid  then.  Later  he 
went  to  England  where  he  made  a  name  for 
himself  on  the  stage,  returning  to  America  last 
March  bent  on  getting  his  name  on  the  talking 
screen.  Tom  was  born  in  Louisville,  Ky.,  Sep- 
tember 4,  1906.  He  is  5  feet,  WA,  weighs  140 
and  has  blond  hair  and  brown  eyes. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


81 


Q  Oreat  Beauty  .editors  of  the  World 
praise  this  JNail  Make-up 

for  its  lasting  lustre,  gleaming  beauty  .  .  .  and  romance 


NEW   YORK 


BY  actual  count,  Cutex  Liquid  Polish 
is  today  the  outstanding  inter- 
national favorite. 

"The  newest  aid  to  romance,"  says 
Maribel,  beauty  editor  of  Spain's  Cos- 
mopolis.  Martine  Renier,  fashion  editress 
of  the  great  Parisian  magazine,  Femina, 
declares:  "This  nail  make-up  is  essential 
to  French  chic." 

Cutex  has  five  very  definite  advan- 
tages. Madge  Garland,  fashion  editress 
of  London,  speaks  for  all  beauty-wise 
women  when  she  savs  .  .  . 

"Its  brilliant  lustre  is  unequalled.  It  goes 
on  simply,  quickly  and  smoothly.  Stays 
brilliant  and  unmarred  for  days  .  .  .  and  does 
not  turn  yellow,  crack,  or  peel."  And  .  .  . 
Cutex  is  economical.  It  gives  fingertips  the 


lovely  sparkle  of  romance  at  a  fascinatingly 
thrifty  price! 

And  now  there  is  instant  snowy  whiteness 
for  nail  tips  with  the  new  Cutex  Nail  White 
Pencil.  Keep  one  always  in  your  purse — it 
doubles  the  allure  of  Cutex  Liquid  Polish! 

•  •  • 

Follow   the   easy   Cutex   manicure    method 
described  in  the  booklet. 

After  this  quick  manicure  once  a  week  a 
few  minutes  each  day  will  keep  your  nails 
lovely.  Just  push  back  the  cuticle;  cleanse 
the  nail  tips  and  use  the  Nail  White — Pencil 
or  Cream.  Before  retiring,  use  Cutex  Cuticle 
Oil  or  Cream  to  soften  the  cuticle. 
Cutex  Manicure  Preparations  are  only  35JS. 
Cutex  Liquid  Polish  with  Remover,  50}!. 
Cutex  Nail  White  Pencil  now  25^. 

NORTHAM  WARREN  •  New  York  •  London  •  Paris 


Now  a  screw-tight  cap  of  gleaming  black  bakelile  gives  the  Cutex  Liquid  Polish 

bottle  added  smartness  and  does  away  forever  with  broken  corks!  It  has  brush 

attached,  and  when  in  use,  always  keeps  the  brush  tip  off  the  table  top. 

Cutex  Liquid  Polish 

.  .  .  ONLY  35(4 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  47 


HELEN  TWELVETREES  went  into  some 
small  towns  of  Washington  and  Oregon 
states  to  meet  her  husband's  relatives.  She 
has  recently  married  Frank  Woody,  local  real 
estate  dealer. 

His  nieces  invited  all  of  their  sorority  sisters 
from  miles  around  to  meet  Helen.  And  did 
those  college  girls  have  a  thrill! 

A  motion  picture  star  who  was  almost  one 
of  them. 

"What  woman  in  Hollywood  did  they  ask 
about  most?"  we  inquired. 

"Jean  Harlow!"  Helen  answered  without 
hesitating. 

CONRAD  NAGEL  is  the  hero,  not  of 
Hollywood,  but  all  of  Los  Angeles. 

He  held  110,000  people— yes  that  is  one 
hundred  and  ten  thousand — quiet,  interested 
and  patient  under  the  greatest  difficulties  when 
he  was  master  of  ceremonies  for  the  pageant 
of  jewels,  the  electrical  parade,  which  climaxed 
the  two  week  celebration  in  commemoration 
of  the  founding  of  the  city. 

The  events  and  floats  were  delayed  by  the 
hordes  who  could  not  gain  admission  to  the 
Coliseum.  Three  hundred  thousand  people 
swarmed  outside  who  were  too  late  to  get 
seats,  to  get  a  glimpse  of  electrical  miracles  on 
wheels. 

And  because  of  Conrad's  clever  handling 
of  the  situation  there  was  not  a  booh  from  the 
inside  because  the  show  ran  for  six  hours  rather 
than  three. 

THE  entire  program  for  the  evening  was 
furnished  by  the  motion  picture  industry. 
And  it  could  only  have  happened  where  that 


Industry  is.  There  are  not  enough  generators 
in  any  other  city  in  the  world  to  put  on  such 
a  display. 

Incidentally,  more  stars  appeared  for  the 
function  than  ever  appeared  personally  for 
any  other. 

OIDNEY  FOX  never  goes  onto  the  stage  or 
k~'onto  a  set  without  wearing  a  piece  of  carved 
jade.  Genevieve  Tobin,  another  Universal 
player,  won't  wear  green.  Not  even  a  green 
dress.  It  brings  her  bad  luck,  she  feels.  She 
had  just  one  flop  on  the  stage — and  she  wore 
a  green  dress  in  it. 

A  CLOSE  friend  of  the  Duncan  sisters  tells 
•**■  us  they  had  the  misfortune  to  lose 
practically  everything  they  had  saved,  on  the 
stockmarket.  And  this  was  just  after  Vivian 
married  Nils  Asther  and  split  the  team.  Per- 
haps that's  why  the  rumor  persists  that  Vivian 
will  not  return  to  Nils  but  park  her  baby  and 
return  to  the  stage  with  Rosita. 

WALLACE  BEERY  paused  in  his 
rehearsal  on  "The  Champ"  set. 
"It  must  be  about  time  for  lunch," 
he  suggested. 

Little  Jackie  Cooper,  co-star,  pulled 
out  his  watch  hurriedly.  "Nope!  It's 
only  half-past  eleven.  Your  stomach 
is  faster  than  your  watch,  Wally." 

y  ORE  SPOT  NEWS  FROM  CUPID  .  .  . 
•*•  *  -1-Edwina  Booth  goes  into  court  in  answer  to 
the  eighteen  charges  filed  by  Mrs.  Duncan 
Renaldo  .  .  .  asserting  that  Edwina  had 
stolen  Renaldo's  love  while  making  "Tnder 


Horn"  in  Africa.  .  .  .  Edwina's  lawyer  asked 
her,  in  a  row  of  eighteen  questions,  if  each  of 
Mrs.  Renaldo's  charges  was  true  .  .  . 
eighteen  times,  Edwina's  lovely  lips  whispered 
merely  "No!"  .  .  .  there  was  no  other  witness 
.  .  .  the  Judge  decided  in  her  favor,  killing 
Mrs.  Renaldo's  $50,000  alienation  suit.  .  .  . 
It's  all  curtains  between  Billie  Dove  and 
Howard  Hell's  Angels  Hughes  ...  no  steady 
for  Hughes  as  yet,  but  been  seen  out  with  her 
and  her  and  her  .  .  .  Billie  too  .  .  .  but  now 
(at  least  as  this  is  written)  there's  a  very  steady 
steady  .  .  .  he's  Robert  Kennaston,  a  rancher, 
who  knows  as  much  about  oranges,  lemons, 
avocados  as  Hughes  does  about  oil  wells  and 
movies.  .  .  .  Hollywood  is  amused  and  be- 
mused by  Ina  and  Jack  .  .  .  uhhuh,  Claire  and 
Gilbert  .  .  .  they  go  places  together!  .  .  . 
but  it's  all  in  friendship  .  .  .  they  say. 

KAY  FRANCIS  introduced  a  new 
one  the  other  day  at  Malibu 
Beach.  She  appeared  in  pajamas 
which  had  zipper  fastenings  on  the 
rear  of  the  trousers. 

A  SEVENTY-ONE-YEAR-OLD  farmer  in 
■**■  Louisiana,  sight  just  restored  after  twenty 
years  blindness,  said  one  of  the  first  things  he 
wants  to  see  is  Marlene  Dietrich  on  the  screen 
...  at  71!  Fie!  .  .  .  When  they  toss  off  a 
stiff  drink  in  a  movie,  it's  tea.  .  .  .  Joan 
Bennett  will  have  to  learn  to  walk  again,  after 
her  broken  hip  heals,  the  doctors  say.  .  .  . 
Kay  Francis,  tall  Warner  star,  wears  smallest 
shoe — size  four.  .  .  .  Paul  Whiteman  lost 
sixty-seven  pounds  to  become  a  groom. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  84  ] 


What  chance  would  any  man  have  against  these  girls  who  play  three  sprightly  gold-diggers  in  Samuel  Goldwyn's 
production  of  "The  Greeks  Had  a  Word  for  It,"  which  promises  to  be  one  of  the  hits  of  the  screen  year.  Up  ahead 
in  this  issue  are  four  pages  of  eye-smashing  clothes  designed  for  them  by  the  famous  Gabrielle  Chanel.  The  girls 
are  Ina  Claire,  the  star,  who  plays  the  wise,  scheming  one ;  Joan  Blondell,  the  happy-go-lucky ;  and  Madge  Evans, 
the  dreamy,  artistic  type  of  easy-wayer.    A  grand  combination  of  types  and  actresses 


82 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


83 


"The  richness  and  softness 
which  I  invariably  find  in 
Skinner  weaves  are  of  great 
assistance  to  me  in  arriving  at 
smart  effects  on  the  screen." 
MAX  REE 


JylooeiiYUf 
Unaste 


rpieces 


FOR  this  graceful  evening  gown  for  Mary 
Aster,  Max  Ree,  supervising  art  director  of 
RKO- Radio  Pictures,  selected  Skinner's  Flat 
Crepe.  A  deep  wine  shade  was  chosen 
to  accentuate  her  patrician,  brunette  beauty. 

Note  the  intriguing  neck-line — softly  draped, 
cowl  fashion.  And  the  intricate  goring,  with 
graceful  fullness  to  the  skirt. 

Long,  flowing  lines  bring  increasing  importance 
to  perfection  of  fabric  finish.  Skinner's  Crepes 
give  full  play  to  the  originality  of  famous 
Hollywood  costume  designers. 

WILLIAM  SKINNER  &  SONS 
New  York        Chicago        Boston        Philadelphia        Los  Anseles 
Mills,  Holyolce,  Mass.     Established  1848 


LOOK      FOR      THE      NAME 
IN     THE     SELVAGE" 


Skinner's 


Silks 

• 


MARV  ASTOR.  Radio  Pictures  Pldyer 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


(  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  82 


T_TERE'S  a  little  inside  yarn  about  Roscoe 
*■  -*-Ates  which  shows  the  irony  of  fate! 

He  really  stuttered  until  he  was  sixteen 
when  he  took  lessons  on  corrective  speech — long, 
hard,  arduous  lessons  to  correct  his  fault  so  he 
could  make  a  living. 

And  he's  made  his  fame  by  remembering 
how  he  used  to  stutter! 

•RLORENCE  VIDOR  and  husband  Jascha 
*-  Heifitz  were  entertaining.  It  was  one  of 
their  usual  ultra-ultra  dinner  parties.  A 
famous  Hollywood  wit  (a  writer)  breezed  in 
and  was  greeted  by  Mrs.  Heifitz  in  the  best 
manner. 

He  glanced  around  for  the  host  with  a 
twinkle  in  his  eye. 

"Well,  when  does  he  play?"  he  asked,  spy- 
ing violinist  Heifitz  in  a  corner. 

Florence  was  annoyed.  Such  rudeness.  She 
wished  to  put  him  in  his  place. 

When  the  next  group  arrived  she  took  the 
guests  to  the  wise-cracker  to  accomplish  in- 
troductions. 

"Oh,  I'm  so  sorry,"  she  looked  at  him.  "I 
don't  believe  I  remember  your  name." 

Mr.  Humorist  returned  look  for  look.  "Oh, 
that's  all  right,  Florence.  We  know  each  other 
so  well  that  you  may  just  call  me  Toots." 

SEEMS  that  we've  dug  up  a  lot  about  Clara 
Bow's  history  that  has  never  been  told 
before,  during  the  month.  But  the  best  yarn 
of  all  is  how  Clara  Bow  and  Joan  Lowell  (yes, 
the  author  of  the  much  discussed  "Cradle  of 
the  Deep")  out-ritzed  one  another. 

Clara  was  making  $150  a  week  and  living  in 
a  two-room  bungalow  court  with  papa  Bow. 
Joan  was  making  $75  a  week  at  the  old  Ince 


studio  and  living  in  a  tiny  bungalow  down  by 
the  gas  house.  Neither  had  a  maid,  a  car  and 
only  a  few  silk  stockings  apiece. 

A  mutual  friend  decided  it  would  be  bene- 
ficial for  these  two  we-want-to-get-famous  girls 
to  know  one  another. 

He  told  Clara:  "Joan  has  a  membership  to 
the  beach  club  and  plays  tennis.  She  has  a 
nice  social  standing  and  could  help  you  to 
meet  the  right  people." 

He  told  Joan:  "Clara  doesn't  know  many 
people.  You  could  help  her  there.  But  she's 
under  contract  to  Schulberg  and  knows  other 
producers.  She  could  help  you  to  meet  them 
and  get  good  breaks.    You  go  and  call  on  her." 

SO  Joan  left  her  gas-house  vicinity  and  went 
to  call  on  Clara  in  her  two  rooms. 

They  sat  in  Clara's  tiny  place  and  looked  at 
one  another. 

"I'm  sorry,"  Clara  said,  "but  I  gave  my 
chauffeur  the  night  off  so  I  cannot  take  you  for 
a  ride." 

"  Isn't  that  strange?  "  Joan  answered.  "  But 
I  gave  mine  the  same  night.  So  I  can't  take 
you  riding,  either." 

"Well,  we  can  sit  here  and  talk,"  Clara  said 
hospitably. 

So  they  sat  and  talked.  Maids  came  next. 
Clara's  were  out  but  Joan  insisted  Clara  should 
come  over  soon  and  see  hers.  They  were  both 
moving  in  a  few  days  to  big  houses.  Joan 
spoke  last,  here,  so  hers  was  the  biggest.  It 
went  on  for  an  hour.  Which  won?  It  was  a 
toss-up. 

And  the  next  day  Clara  went  back  to  the 
mutual  friend  and  asked  why  he  ever  sent  such 
a  girl  as  Joan  Lowell  to  her.  "Stuck-up,  con- 
ceited, etc. — " 


And  Joan  went  to  him  with  the  same  ques- 
tion and  accusations  about  Clara. 

It  wasn't  until  the  other  day  when  talking 
with  Clara  that  the  friend  got  the  low-down  on 
what  happened.    He  told  us  the  story. 

~Kf  ARIAN  MARSH'S  real  name  is  Violet 
■"-l-Krauth.  .  .  .  Wanda  Hawley  (remember 
her?)  is  touring  the  Middle  West,  lecturing  on 
beauty  secrets  in  department  stores.  .  .  . 
Sylvia  Sidney  likes  liverwurst  and  onion  sand- 
wiches. .  .  .  Everybody  in  Paris  is  talking 
about  Charlie  Chaplin's  wanting  Mrs.  Frank 
J.  Gould  to  be  a  movie  actress. 

OLARK  GABLE'S  nickname  is  "Dutchy." 
^*.  .  .  Edna  Mae  Oliver  wears  wax  earplugs 
at  night  so  the  California  frogs  and  mocking 
birds  won't  keep  her  awake.  .  .  .  Louise 
Glaum  is  living  quietly  in  Kansas  City  .  .  . 
without  the  leopard  skins  and  peacock  feathers. 
.  .  .  Claire  Windsor  is  going  traveling  with  Al 
Jolson.  .  .  .  All  perfectly  proper,  they're  play- 
ing in  a  show  together.  .  .  .  Buddy  Rogers  is 
leaving  Paramount  to  tour  the  country  with 
his  own  band.  .  .  .  Goody,  goody,  for  the 
small  town  girls. 

SIGN  on  theater  marquee: 
CLIVE  BROOK 
ALWAYS  COOL  INSIDE 

""THERE'S  a  scene  in  "The  Cuban,"  the 
■*■  Tibbett-Velez  picture,  laid  in  1917.  And 
there's  a  huge  signboard  in  that  scene  adver- 
tising Norma  Shearer.  Now,  if  Norma  Shearer 
were  being  billed  in  1917  then  I  was  alive  when 
Cleo  baited  her  line  for  Anthony. 

I  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  86  ] 


Stagg 


This  is  the  way  they  throw  a  stork  shower  in  Hollywood.  It  was  given  for  Bebe  Daniels  about  ten  days  before  the 
arrival  of  little  Barbara  Lyon.  Mrs.  George  Fitzmaurice  and  Louella  Parsons  were  the  hostesses.  Barbara  could 
live  on  her  presents  until  all  danger  of  the  depression  blows  over,  and  have  enough  left  to  go  through  finishing  school, 
later  on.  You'll  find  in  this  group  Norma  Talmadge,  May  Allison,  Lois  Wilson,  Billie  Dove,  Carmel  Myers,  Sally 
Eilers,  Olive  Tell,  Betty  Compson,  Eileen  Percy  and  other  stars  and  wives  of  directors  and  executives 


8Jf 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


BECAUSE 
THEY  APPLAUD 

"CLEAN  HITS" 
IN  SPORTS 

AND 

CIGARETTES 


Schooled  in  the  healthy 
pleasures  of  field  and  forest,  sports- 
men and  sportswomen  quickly  rec- 
ognized Spud  as  their  very  own. 
Here  was  not  only  full-qualitied 
tobacco  fragrance.  Here  was  actu- 
ally the  clean-fresh-taste  idea  ex- 
pressed in  a  cigarette  . . .  producing 
a  "mouth-happiness"  that  belonged 
with  that  grand  outdoor  feeling. 
The  Axton-Fisher  Tobacco  Co., 
Incorporated,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 


SPUD 

MENTHOL-COOLED 

CIGARETTES 


20  FOR  20c  (U.  S.)  .  .  .  20  FOR  30c  (CANADA 


86 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


TflNTCC 


WORLD'S  GREATE! 
FASHION  AUTHORITIES 

Harper's  Bazaar  of  New  York 

Taller,  and  Sketch  of  London 

Jardin  des  Modes  of  Part 

ALL  APPROVE  TANGEE 

Let  these  great  fashion  magazines 
tell  you  about  Tangee  .  .  .  how 
this  famous  lipstick  and  rouge 
give  you  that  natural  color  which 
is    so    much    in    vogue    today ! 

"Natural  color  is  the  mode  of 
the  moment,"  says  Harper's 
Bazaar.  "The  rouge  and  lipstick 
which  blend  into  the  natural  flesh 
tones  are  the  ones  which  fit 
most  perfectly  into  the  fashion 
picture.  This  is  precisely  what 
the   Tangee    preparations   do." 

"Flashy,  glaring  lips  can  ruin  the  prettiest  and 
most  expensive  ensemble,"  says  Le  Jardin  des 
Modes  of  Paris.  "The  fashion  this  season  is 
individual,  romantic  and  feminine.  Tangee 
well  ansivers  these  requirements  because  it 
blends  with  your  individual,  natural  coloring.'' 

"Vivid,  artificial  looking  make-up  is  entirely 
out  of  harmony,"  says  Sketch.  "Tangee  suits 
the  smart  woman  of  every  type,  whether 
blonde,  brunette  or  Titian."  And  Tatler  adds, 
"Tangee  gives  to  your  lips  the  lovely  glow  of 
youth  .  .  .  so  rich  in  color  and  yet  so  natural'." 

Tangee,  the  world's  most  famous  Lipstick, 
$1.  Natural!  Permanent!  Non-Greasy! 
New!  Tangee  Theatrical,  a  special  dark 
shade  of  Tangee  Lipstick  and  Rouge 
Compact  for  professional  and  evening  use. 

To  Match  Tangee  Lipstick! 


SEND  20*  FOR  TANGEE  BEAUTY  SET 

Containing    miniature    Lipstick,   two    Rouges, 
Powder,  two  Creams  and  "The  Art  of  Make-up" 

The  George  W.  Luft  Co.,  Deft.  P9 
•  417  Fifth  Avenue  New  York  j 

j  Name j 

'  Address ! 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 


[  continued  from  page  84  ] 


"DUCK  JONES  didn't  duck  soon  enough  in  a 
■'-'sequence,  and  a  flying  chair  broke  two  ribs. 
.  .  .  Fifty  stenographers'  applications  are  on 
file  for  every  job  that's  open  in  Hollywood 
studios.  .  .  .  Doug  Junior  still  wears  that 
ancient  felt  hat.  .  .  .  Vilma  Banky  and  Rod 
LaRocque  (Mr.  and  Mrs.,  you  know)  plan  a 
screen  return.  .  .  .  The  rumor  still  persists 
that  Clara  Bow's  comeback  will  be  in  "The 
Impatient  Virgin"  for  Universal.  .  .  .  Ernst 
Lubitsch  is  never  without  his  cigar,  and  Clark 
Gable  his  pipe.  .  .  .  Jean  Harlow  writes 
poetry,  as  pastime.  .  .  .  Eddie  Cantor  calls 
his  fifth  and  youngest  child  "  Five  Star  Final." 
.  .  .  Some  call  the  Malibu  residents  Mali- 
boobs.  .  .  . 

"CRANCES  MARION,  the  highest  salaried 
■*-  woman  scenarist  in  the  world,  was  driving 
down  Hollywood  Boulevard  and  made  some 
wrong  move  in  traffic.  A  cop  came  rushing 
forward.  "Say,"  he  yelled,  "what's  the 
matter  with  you?  Haven't  you  got  any 
brains?" 

Frances  let  it  pass  and  drove  on.  Then  she 
began  to  get  good  and  sore.  She  turned  around 
and  came  back  to  the  cop. 

"Listen,"  she  yelled.  "Last  year  my  brains 
were  worth  just  $150,000.  What  did  you  get 
for  yours?" 

T  UPE  VELEZ  and  Leslie  Fenton,  who  are 
-^excellent  friends — nothing  else — found  them- 
selves with  some  spare  time  on  their  hands  the 
other  evening.  Leslie,  like  Lupe,  does  as  he 
pleases  when  he  pleases.  The  two  decided  to 
call  telephone  numbers. 

They  snatched  numbers  from  the  phone 
book  at  random,  not  even  noticing  the  names. 
Lupe  was  on  the  line,  this  time. 

"This  is  Dr.  so  and  so's  residence,"  a 
feminine  voice  answered. 


"Where  is  that  sandwich  the  doctor  promised 
me  last  night?"  she  inquired. 

"I  beg  your  pardon.  This  is  the  doctor's 
wife.    What  can  I  do  for  you?  " 

"Call  him  to  the  phone." 

"He  isn't  here  but  I  am  his  wife.  I  can  take 
the  message." 

"Well,  I  am  his  sweetheart  and  I  don't  be- 
lieve you  could,"  and  the  minx  hung  up  the 
phone.  Naughty  Lupe!  If  you  caused  trouble 
perhaps  the  doctor's  wife  will  read  this  and 
understand. 

CLARA  BOW  dropped  into  a  sale 
at  a  Hollywood  drug  store  the 
other  day  to  buy  $1.50  bath  salts 
marked  down  to  87  cents.  When  she 
discovered  that  only  two  bottles  were 
allowed  to  the  customer  she  had 
every  elevator  boy  in  the  building 
make  a  purchase  for  her. 
The  red-head  has  learned  economy ! 

T  ILYAN  TASHMAN  discovered  late  one 
-'-'afternoon  that  she  had  to  work  that  eve- 
ning. They  were  rushing  production  on 
"Girls  About  Town." 

She  telephoned  Eddie  Lowe  at  their  Malibu 
house  suggesting  that  they  spend  the  night  at 
their  closed  place  in  Beverly  even  though  they 
had  no  servants  there  and  would  have  to  go 
out  for  breakfast.  Eddie  agreed,  came  in  and 
had  dinner  with  her  and  went  to  a  show  while 
she  was  working.  "We'll  meet  at  the  house," 
Lil  said. 

Then  they  cut  work  early.  Lil  arrived  at  the 
house,  dismissed  the  chauffeur,  went  to  the 
door  and  opened  her  bag  to  get  her  key.  Her 
studio  maid  had  made  a  mistake  and  given  her 
the  bag  she  used  in  the  picture.  There  was 
nothing  in  it. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  88  ] 


Well,  why  shouldn't  the  bride's  mother  get  a  camera  break?  Here's 
Bill  Powell's  nice  mother-in-law,  the  mother  of  Carole  Lombard. 
Mamma  and  daughter  are  shown  on  the  deck  of  the  liner  that 
brought  the  honeymooners  back  from  Hawaii.    And  where's  Bill? 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


87 


Jco?'ca\ 


ae/ed  ?vc?7ten 


115  turn/ia  qii&iA&i  oidofxiz 
—  t/i&?t  lea?viea 

SMARTNESS  HAS  NOTHING  TO  DO  WITH  PRICE 


THE  PARIS  PATTERN  IN  FORMAL  DINNER  SETTING  -  IMAGINE  I  SO  PIECES  COST  ONLY  $29,001 


"Guess  the  price,"  said  our  Travel- 
ing Reporter.  And  before  132  Los 
Angeles  women — each  in  her  own 
home — he  placed  a  set  of  50  pieces  of 
the  stunning  silverplate  shown  here. 

Each  woman  fingered  the  pieces, 
judged  weight,  beauty  of  detail.  Then 
each  made  her  guess — 

And  115  out  of  132  guessed  wrong! 
Far,  far  too  high !  Many  guesses  ran 
nearly  twice  as  high  as  the  actual  price 
of  the  silverplate !  For — imagine  this ! 

A  service  for  12  costs  only  $29.00! 

Who'd  ever  expect  that  for  $29.00 
you  could  get  12  model-handled 


knives  with  stainless  steel  blades, 
12  forks,  12  teaspoons,  12  dessert 
spoons,  a  sugar  shell,  a  butter  knife 
—  all  in  a  decorative  case.  And  in 
silverplate  as  distinctive  as  sterling! 

For  Wm.  Rogers  &  Son  Silverplate 
is  as  truly  beautiful  as  that !  Styled 
by  to-day's  leading  stylists — designed 
by  masters— this  silverplate  is  as  far 
removed  as  the  poles  from  the  silver- 
plate  that  you'd  expect  so  moderate  a 
price  to  buy  litis  proof  that  to-day,  in 
silverplate  as  in  so  many  other  things, 
smartness  has  nothing  to  do  with  price! 

See  this  silverplate.  See  the  new 
Viande*  style  in  knife  and  fork  —  in 


smart  homes  everywhere.  (Mrs. 
Emily  Post  calls  the  Viande  knife 
"the  perfect  instrument.")  See  the 
matching  hollowware,  an  innovation 
at  this  price.  Then  remember— Wm. 
Rogers  &  Son — Genuine  Original 
Rogers  Silverplate  —  is  guaranteed 
for  years  of  wear.  Many  dealers 
offer  this  silverplate  on  the  Deferred 
Payment  Plan. 


n 


&J 


The  Hark  of  the 

International  Silver  Co.,  Meriden,  Conn. 

Also  makers  of  International  Sterling. 

l>47  Rogers  Bros.  Silverplate  and 

Holmes  £c  Edwards  Inlaid. 

'Trade  Mark— Viande  Knife— Patent  Applied  for 


WM.  ROGERS  &-SON         C 


c^ 


88 

I 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


We  Threw  Out 
the  Pretty  Girl 

to  Please 
2,000,000  Men 

1  PROTEST,"  says  a  recent  letter  from  F.  J. 
Molitor,  of  Akron,  Ohio,  "because  all  your 
ads  show  pretty  girl  pictures.  Give  us  men  a 
break.  We  use  your  brush,  too.  There  must  be 
at  least  two  million  men  like  me  who  think 
nothing  can  touch  a  Pro-phy-lac-tic  Tooth  Brush 
for  quality  and  results.  How  about  chucking 
the  brown-haired  beauties  and  giving  us  a  pic- 
ture of  a  man  with  good  teeth  .  .  .  ?" 

111 
Dear  Mr.  Molitor:  Above  is  your  answer.   But 
this  sets  no  precedent.  We  reserve  the  right  to 
go  back  to  the  "beauties."  Frankly,  we  think 
they  have  more  attention  value. 

They  enable  us  to  attract  millions  of  readers, 
men  and  women.  Then  we  can  tell  them  how 
Pro-phy-lac-tic  has  been  making  tooth  brushes, 
brushes  of  all  kinds,  and  nothing  but  brushes, 
for  more  than  forty  years.  We  can  tell  them 
how  our  experience  and  the  merit  of  our  prod- 
ucts have  won  us  an  international  reputation 
as  bristle  authorities. 

Our  endeavor  is  to  win  new  users  who  want 
whiter  teeth  and  healthier  gums.  We  ask  them 
to  switch  from  their  present  tooth  brush  to  the 
modern  Tufted  Pro-phy-lac-tic.  It  has  the  fa- 
mous tufted  toe  which  reaches  places  back  of 
the  molars  (back  teeth)  rarely  touched  by  others. 

This  extraordinary  tooth  brush  is  the  new, 
scientific,  medium  size.  Not  a  midget  that  skimps 
on  bristle.  Not  an  old-fashioned  big  brush. 
But  one  correct  for  average  mouths.  Large 
enough  to  clean,  polish,  and  massage  the  gums, 
at  split-second  speed. 

Hasty  brushers  find  that  it  leaves  the  teeth  and 
mouth  feeling  cleaner  in  less  time  than  any  other. 

It  is  a  precision  dental  instrument  made  in 
accordance  with  professional  specifications. 
The  only  nationally  advertised  50^  tooth  brush 
produced  in  its  own  plant.  This  explains  why 
it  gives  greater  value.  The  smaller  Youth's  size 
is  35^.  Child's  size,  25£.  All  guaranteed  with- 
out reservation. 

No  matter  what  brush  you  are  using  now, 
try  a  Tufted . .  .You  will  thank  us  for  the  sug- 
gestion. Pro-phy-lac-tic  Brush  Company, 
Florence,  Mass. 

f)ro-pliy.-  Cac  -tic 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast 
from  Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  86  ] 


IT  was  bitter  cold.  Lil  had  on  a  light  suit. 
She  began  walking  up  and  down  the  drive- 
way. Someone  in  the  next  house  raised  a 
curtain.  "Perhaps  they'll  think  I'm  a  burglar 
and  shoot  me,"  she  mused.  And  was  she 
jittering!  But  the  Tashman  courage  kept  her 
going.  The  brave  Tashmans — they  call  'em. 
So  she  went  into  her  garage  and  crept  into 
the  extra  car  left  there.  She  drowsed.  When 
she  awakened  she  thought  she  smelled  fumes. 
What  were  all  those  awful  stories  about  people 
dying  in  garages?  She  got  up  and,  dragging  an 
old  blanket  from  the  bottom  of  the  extra  car, 
the  beautiful  sophisticated  Tashman  curled 
up  on  the  back  porch  and  shivered  for  two 
hours  until  friend  husband  arrived  with  a  key! 
This  is  now  known  along  the  boulevard  as 
"Lil's  exciting   night." 

T  UPE  VELEZ  has  four  new  fur  coats — 
-^making  a  grand  total  of  an  even  dozen — ■ 
and  five  new  fur  neck  pieces.  Lupe's  hobby 
is  furs,  and  if  ever  she  failed  in  pictures  she'd 
be  qualified  as  a  fur  dealer.  No  kidding.-  She 
knows  furs  as  do  few  women.  She  picks  her 
skins,  matches  them  herself,  designs  her  coats 
and  has  them  made  according  to  her  own 
specifications.  You  mijht  cheat  her  on 
diamonds  but  you'd  never  call  a  rabbit  an 
ermine  and  slip  it  over  on  the  little  gal  from 
Mexico. 

T  AWRENCE  TIBBETT,  Director  W.  S. 
-'-'Van  Dyke  and  others  on  "The  Cuban" 
picture  are  bewailing  the  fact  that  Joan 
Crawford's  waistline  is  so  small.  And  Joan 
isn't  even  in  the  film! 

Leading  lady  Lupe  Velez  was  the  hey-hey 
and  pep  kid  of  the  set.  Every  working  day 
was  just  one  big  party  until  Lupe  became 
conscious  of  Joan's  waistline.  It  was  inches 
smaller  than  hers.  Lupe  couldn't  stand  that! 
She  must  be  as  slim  as  La  Crawford.  She  went 
on  an  orange  juice  diet  and  refused  all  solid 
foods. 

At  the  end  of  eight  days  Lawrence  Tibbett 
said. 


"She's  not  the  same  girl.  She  drags  around 
the  set  where  she  used  to  jump.  All  her 
whoopee  influence  is  gone.  We  wish  she'd 
never  seen  an  orange." 

THE  Richard  Barthelmess's  were  without  a 
chauffeur  for  an  evening.  They  were 
attending  a  party  which  Joan  Crawford  and 
Doug.  Jr.  were  also  attending. 

Dick  called  Joan  and  asked  if  they  would 
stop  by  for  them. 

"I'm  sorry  but  we  haven't  room." 

Dick  couldn't  understand  because  the  Fair- 
banks Jr.  limousine  is  a  large  affair.  But 
there  was  Joan  and  Doug  and  their  secretary 
and  Joan's  personal  body  guard.  Dick  laugh- 
ing kidded  Joan,  asking  if  she  didn't  think 
Doug.  Jr.,  the  chauffeur,  the  secretary  and 
himself  could  protect  her. 

"I  pay  this  man  to  do  this  and  besides  I  feel 
safer  when  he  is  along!" 

Well,  well,  there  was  a  day  when  Gloria 
Swanson  had  a  body  guard,  you  know.  And 
it  was  when  she  was  at  the  zenith  of  the  big 
money. 

TfARIETY  reports  that  a  female, 
impersonator  calling  himself 
Dorian  Gray  has  written  a  play 
called  "The  Private  Life  of  Greta 
Garbo"  and  wants  it  produced  with 
himself  playing  the  Swedish  North- 
ern Light!    Whoops! 

MARY  KINNY  is  just  another  of  the 
thousands  of  girls  who  come  to  Hollywood 
to  crash  the  studio  gates. 

She  came  from  Cincinnati,  weighing  109. 
She  tried  and  tried,  but  no  luck.  Climate 
good,  though — and  up  went  her  weight  to  120. 

Mary  got  scared.  She'd  read  about  stars 
having  to  keep  their  weight  down.  So  she 
went  on  a  diet. 

They  picked  her  up  outside  the  Paramount 
studios  the  other  day.  Collapsed  from 
undernourishment. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  90  ] 


"Watch  this !"  says  the  famous  Willie  Hoppe,  billiard  shark,  as  he 

runs  off  a  few  hundred,  to  Anita  Page's  amusement.  "Watch this!" 

says  Anita,  missing  the  cue  ball  by  an  inch.    Willie  has  made  a 

snappy  billiard  short  subject  for  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


ff 


t$ 


A«>* 


\o 


,  o*       _«,ov»»        «\o1*' 


St**    «    .•*    \ 


,»**/        // 


./  ARE     \ 
THESE 

OUR 
CHILDREN? 


kKO     HADIO     PICTURE 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Ivory  Snow  dissolves  in 
lukewarm  water   instantly! 

A  quick  start?  You  should  see 
Ivory  Snow  bubble  into  suds,  the 
instant  it  touches  water — even 
lukewarm  water!  Now  you  start — 
with  instant  lukewarm  suds — ex- 
actly the  right  temperature  for 
washing  fragile  silks  and  woolens. 
Now — no  waiting  for  hot  water. 
No  guessing  at  temperatures.  No 
beating  up  suds.  Every  tiny  Ivory 

9  944/oo%  PURE 


Snow  pearl  pops  into  rich  Ivory 
suds— not  one  is  left  undissolved 
to  stick  to  delicate  wool  or  silk. 
P.  S.— About  that  happy  finish? 
Well,  Ivory  Snow  is  pure  Ivory 
Soap.  So  your  precious  clothes 
come  out  of  Ivory  Snow  suds  look- 
ing like  new!  A  box  of  Ivory  Snow 
costs  only  15^—  a  big  box  too — 
big  enough  to  protect  hundreds  of 
dollars  worth  of  lovely  clothes. 


$  1631.  P.  <±G.  Co. 


Silk  and  woolen 
manufacturers  agree 

"A  perfect  soap  for  silks,"  say 
Mallinson,  Cheney  Brothers  and 
Truhu.  "The  ideal  soap  for  wool- 
ens," say  the  weavers  of  the  fine 
Biltmore  Handwoven  Home- 
spuns, the  makers  of  downy 
Mariposa  blankets  and  the 
Botany  Worsted  Mills,  leading 
woolen  manufacturers,  to  men- 
tion only  a  few.  ^ 


Cal  York's  Monthly 

Broadcast  from 

Hollywood 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  88  1 


COMEDY  Director  Ernie  Pagano  was  in- 
structing Virginia  Brooks  on  how  she 
should  exit  from  a  scene,  running  backwards. 
To  illustrate  his  idea,  Ernie  gave  a  demonstra- 
tion and  backed  right  into  an  old  lady  who 
was  coming  up  the  walk  to  the  entrance  of  the 
Ambassador  Hotel,  where  they  were  on  loca- 
tion. 

Ernie  offered  his  most  profuse  apologies  and 
explained  that  a  scene  for  a  motion  picture 
was  being  taken  and  would  she  kindly  step 
aside  until  it  was  finished. 

After  the  shot  was  made,  Ernie,  to  make 
amends,  placed  a  chair  in  a  convenient  spot 
and  asked  the  lady  if  she  would  like  to  be  seated 
and  watch  how  a  motion  picture  was  made. 

The  lady  thanked  him  and  said,  "I  would 
be  very  much  interested.  You  know,  my 
son  also  makes  motion  pictures." 

"Is  that  so,"  answered  Pagano,  "perhaps  I 
know  him.    What  is  his  name?" 

And  the  lady  replied:  "Jesse  Lasky!" 
Quick  fade-out  with  Pagano  doing  a  108  out 
of  the  scene. 

A  CERTAIN  director  whose  wife 
is  a  notorious  talker  was  show- 
ing said  frau  the  proposed  site  for 
their  new  home. 

"What  do  you  think  of  that  view?" 
he  asked  her. 

"Well,  it  just  leaves  me  speech- 
less," she  answered. 

"Fine,"  said  the  director.  "We'll 
buy  it." 


International 


Uncle  Carl  turns  the  camera 
crank!  Carl  Laemmle,  grand 
old  man  of  pictures  and  father 
of  Carl,  Jr.,  and  Universal,  gets 
the  range  on  one  of  the  dinguses 
that  made  him  famous 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


91 


New  York  found  her  in  Hollywood — 
then  Hollywood  found  her  in  New 
York.  That's  how  Claire  Dodd  came 
to  Paramount  pictures.  Flo  Ziegfeld 
brought  her  from  Los  Angeles.  After 
a  season  in  the  "Follies,"  Hollywood 
lured  her  back  with  a  beautiful  pic- 
ture contract.    Pretty? 


RECENT  court  formalities  anent  little 
Jackie  Cooper's  guardianship  revealed  some 
interesting  facts  and  figures. 

The  boy's  mother,  Mabel  Leonard  Cooper, 
sought  legal  guardianship.  It  was  explained 
that  Jackie's  father,  John,  and  she.  were 
divorced  early  in  1928 — and  his  present  where- 
abouts, she  asserted,  are  unknown. 

Wonder,  wherever  he  is,  what  he  thinks  of 
his  lad  now? 

Finances:  Jackie's  assets  were  set  down  as 
his  contract,  giving  him  $1,300  a  week  now  and 
scaling  up  to  $4,000  a  week  during  the  third 
year;  a  $50,000  thirteen-year  endowment 
policy,  and  $8,000  in  cash. 

Mrs.  Cooper  asked  the  court  for  permission 
to  spend  $1,600  of  his  earnings  monthly  on 
maintenance  of  Jackie  in  his  profession. 

ONE  morning  Roscoe  Ates  drove  into  Radio 
studio  in  a  brand  new  eight-cylinder  car 
and  offered  to  take  everybody  for  a  ride. 

"Why  must  we  all  go  today?"  one  of  his 
customers  asked. 

"Because  this  is  the  1-1-ast  chance  I'll  have 
to  d-d-d-rive  it,"  the  famous  stutterer  an- 
swered. "  My  wife  and  daughter  will  see  it  to- 
night and  then  I'll  only  be  the  o-o-owner." 

SCENE:  studio  private  projection 
room.    As  the  picture  rolled  on,  it 
just  got  worse. 

"Finis" — lights  were  turned  on — 
glum  faces. 

Finally  a  voice:  "Well,  it  needs 
cutting."  Another  voice:  "Yeah — 
right  up  the  middle." 

WE  made  a  discovery  last  week.  Lupe 
Velez  can  dance  almost  any  step  after 
seeing  it  once,  though  she  never  had  a  dancing 
lesson  in  her  life;  we  also  knew  she  could  put 
over  a  new  song  though  she  never  had  a  singing 
lesson  and  that  she  is  the  cleverest  mimic  in 
Hollywood,  but  we  never  suspected  she  could 
embroider  like  the  leader  of  a  Friday  Sewing 


Approving  eyes  linger.  .  . 

on  the  fingers 


aglow  with  GLAZO 


YoUNG  women,  smart 
women,  are  Glazo's  most  ardent  devo- 
tees. For  Glazo  confers  a  special  charm 
to  fingertips  that  no  other  polish  ever 
quite  attains. 

Glazo  Liquid  Polishes  are  exactly 
correct  in  shade.  Exquisite  tints  they  are 
— that  somehow  make  your  hands  look 
whiter,  and  keep  on  good  terms  with 
the  many  shades  of  your  various  frocks. 

Because  they  are  finer  in  quality,  they 
brush  on  easily  and  evenly,  without 
"piling  up".  They  never  turn  white  at 
the  edges,  and  never  appear  purplish 
under  artificial  lights. 


The  twin  package  of  Glazo  Liquid  Pol- 
ish and  Polish  Remover  is  the  most 
famous  and  the  most  widely  used  in  the 
entire  manicure  field.  And  there  are 
many  Glazo  innovations  just  as  fine. 

Glazo  Cuticle  Remover  Creme  in- 
troduces a  new  and  superior  method  of 
cuticle  care.  This  gentle  cream  quickly 
removes  excess  cuticle  and  leaves  the 
cuticle  margins  soft  and  even. 

Glazo  Nicotine  Remover  banishes 
nicotine,  ink,  and  other  stains  that  mar 
the  beauty  of  lovely  hands.  Glazo  Nail 
White,  Glazo  Cuticle  Massage  Cream 
— each  adds  to  that  special  Glazo  charm. 


(Above)— PerfumedGlazo  Liquid NailPolish 
comes  in  this  smart  new  package.  Natural, 
Blame.  Geranium  or  Crimson — in  a  large  bottle, 
50c.   Perfumed  Glazo  Polish  Remover,   55c. 

(Below)  —  Glazo  Cuticle  Remover  Creme  pre- 
sents a  new  and  superior  method  of  cuticle 
care.  Emollient  oils  soften,  while  excess  cuticle 
is  gently  removed.  In  a  convenient  tube,  50c. 


GLAZO 


THE  GLAZO  COMPANY.  Inc..  Dept.  GQ-1U 
191  Hudson  Street.  New  York.  N.  Y. 
I  enclose  ten  cents.  Please  send  me  samples  of  Glazo 
Liquid  Polish,  Polish  Remover,  and  the  new  Cuticle 
Remover  Creme.  (If  you  live  in  Canada,  address 
P.  O.  Box  2320.  Montreal.) 

Name 

Address 

City Statt 


02 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


MACK  SENNETT 


brings  to 
the  screen 


SURRENDER 
DEAR" 


As  great  on  the  screen  as  lie  is  on 
the  air  .  .  .  the  new  king  of  radio 
crooners  . .  .  California's  famous  dis- 
covery who  has  become  the  country's 
reigning  favorite  overnight  —  that's 
Bing  Crosby.  You'll  never  forget  the 
thrill  of  his  inimitable  rich  baritone 
as  he  sings  his  most  popular  song 
"I  Surrender  Dear."  Romance,  rhythm 
and  rollicking  comedy  are  packed  into 
this  picture  in  glorious  gobs. 


The  biggest  laughs,  ihe  fastest  aetion — beauty, 
comedy  and  thrills — are  always  to  be  had  at  the 
theatre  showing  Educational  Pictures.  So  watch 
for  others  such  as  Al  Christie's  Vanity  Comedies; 
the  speedy,  peppy  Mermaid  Comedies;  Mack 
Sennctl's  Brevities,  in  natural  color;  and  a  host 
of  other  sparkling  tid-bits  of  movicdom. 

EDUCATIONAL  FILM  EXCHANGES,  Inc. 
E.  W.  BA  MMONS,  Pnddtni 

Executive  Office:  1501  Broadway,  New  York,  N.Y. 


"THE  SPICE  OFTHE  PROGRAM" 


P 


Now,  here's  a  girl  who  believes  in  being  all  set  when  the  crisis  comes! 
That  smart  Louise  Fazenda  has  done  her  Christmas  shopping  early — two 
whole  months  early — and  here  are  just  a  few  of  the  500  gifts  she  intends 
to  pass  out  when  the  holiday  rolls  round 


Circle.  Well,  she  can  and  does.  She  learned  it 
as  a  child  in  the  convents  of  Mexico. 

It's  a  rare  treat  to  find  perpetual  motion 
Lupe  sitting  in  a  quiet  corner  between  scenes  of 
"The  Cuban"  embroidering  doilies  for  her 
friends. 

T~NUKE  R.  LEE,  the  old-time  serial  actor  now 
-*-^playing  small-bit  heavies,  dropped  into  the 
cutting  room  at  M-G-M. 

"What  do  you  do  with  the  left-overs,  the 
faces  on  the  cutting  room  floor?  "  he  asked. 

"Oh,  we  make  them  into  pictures  for  release 
in  China." 

"Well,  in  one  country  I'm  a  star,"  Lee 
answered  in  glee. 

HOLLYWOOD   doesn't  call  'em 
"beautiful  but  dumb"  any  more. 
Now  they're  just  "It-wits." 

HE  came  to  the  studio  looking  for  a  job. 
"I  haven't  much — I'm  not  handsome, 
haven't  many  brains,  don't  know  much,  admit 
I'm  lazy,  can't  .  .  ." 

"Fine,"  was  the  reply;  "you're  hired.  We 
need  a  supervisor." 

ALICE  WHITE  has  always  been  noted  for 
speaking  her  piece.  That's  one  of  the 
reasons  why  she  isn't  liked  in  political  Holly- 
wood. 

But  Alice  can't  help  it.  Long  before  she, 
herself,  was  in  pictures  she  happened  to  be 
in  a  beauty  parlor  and  overheard  a  very  ritzy 
star  giving  the  hairdresser  a  first-class  bawling 
out  because  her  hair  was  not  done  exactly  to 
suit  her. 


Alice  listened  until  she  could  stand  it  no  lon- 
ger.    Then  she  dashed  into  the  star's  booth. 

"You're  just  taking  advantage  of  your 
money  and  position,"  she  said.  "And  this  poor 
girl  here  has  done  her  best.  Lord  knows,  she 
doesn't  make  much  money  and  she  has  to  stand 
on  her  feet  all  day  long.  If  you  don't  like  what 
she  does  you  might  at  least  tell  her  in  a  nice 
way." 

The  star  was  furious  and  she  forgot  her  grand 
manners  long  enough  to  indulge  in  some  pretty 
common  words  with  the  little  spitfire.  But 
Alice  wasn't  sorry  she  spoke  up. 

TNCIDENTALLY  Alice,  who  has  had  a 
-Hough  time  of  it  in  Hollywood  and  has  been 
the  victim  of  a  lot  of  talk  by  a  lot  of  meanies, 
has  a  heart  as  big  as  Connie  Bennett's  salary. 
When  Alice  was  playing  in  Detroit  she  went  to 
a  sanatarium  for  the  tubercular  to  visit  a  girl, 
a  fan  with  whom  she  has  been  corresponding 
for  four  years.  And  all  those  patients — most 
of  them  kids — are  still  talking  about  it. 

AN  autograph-hound  stopped  Ben 
Lyon  the  other  day. 
"Oh,  Mister  Arlen,"  she  gushed, 
"you're  my  favorite  actor.     Please 
let  me  have  your  autograph." 

"Certainly,"  grinned  Lyon.  And 
signed  Richard  Arlen's  name  in  the 
girl's  book. 

A  N  interviewer  asked  Lionel  Barrymore  why 
-*Mie  had  given  up  directing  for  acting. 

"Well,  you  can't  blame  a  potato  for  not 
being  an  apple,  can  you?"  he  said. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  130  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  tor  November,  1931 


The  Audience 
Speaks  Its  Mind 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  15  ] 

Those  Mad  Marx  Brothers 

"Animal  Crackers,"  starring  the  Marx  Broth- 
ers, may  not  have  been  a  great  picture  or  taught 
any  moral  lesson,  but  it  gave  me  the  best  eve- 
ning's entertainment  I  have  had  in  a  long  time 
and  prepared  me  for  the  next  day's  work  in 
good  shape  during  this  "repression,"  as  Amos 
'n'  Andy  call  it. 

Robert  T.  Burns, 
Omaha,  Nebr. 

George  Arliss 

Give  us  more  pictures  like  "The  Million- 
aire," with  George  and  Florence  Arliss. 
Through  them  we  can  point  out  to  old  fogies 
that  movies  are  giving  us  something  more  than 
gang  wars  and  divorce  court  scenes. 

George  Arliss  has  a  subtle  fineness  in  his  act- 
ing that  we  quickly  recognize  but  seldom  see. 
We  are  eager  to  take  our  grandparents  to  a 
show  like  "The  Millionaire"  so  they  can  see 
the  excellencies  in  modern  talkies. 

Viola  Winterburn, 
South  Bellingham,  Wash. 

The  success  of  George  Arliss'  films — "Dis- 
raeli," "Old  English,"  and  "The  Millionaire," 
provides  a  defense  to  criticism  of  the  movies. 
The  shadow  art  which  can  produce  such  plays 
merits  serious  consideration  among  the  arts. 
Perhaps,  if  producers  had  more  confidence  in 
the  intelligence  of  audiences  .  .  .  ? 

Faith  Boyce, 
Hollywood,  Calif. 

There  is  only  one  complaint  to  make  about 
that  wonderful  actor — George  Arliss.  We  don't 
see  him  half  often  enough. 

True,  he  is  not  over-handsome.   But  humor, 


No,  this  is  not  Maurice  Chevalier !  It 
is  merely  Mitzi  Green's  impersona- 
tion of  the  French  furor.  Pshaw — we 
knew  it  was  Ole  Mitz  all  the  time! 


Why 
a  substitute 

when  you  know  Kotex  is  safe  ? 


Kotex  is  shaped  to  fit;  it  stays  soft; 
it  is  adjustable;  easily  disposed  of. 

SURFACE  resemblance  to  Kotex  is 
not  enough!  Your  sanitary  protec- 
tion must  be  clean,  like  Kotex,  through 
and  through.  Hygienically  clean.  Made 
under  rigid  sanitary  conditions.  Only 
then  can  you  know  your  health  is  pro- 
tected in  every  way. 

You  have  this  assurance  with  Kotex. 
It's  the  world's  standard.  Hospitals  use 
it — it  fully  meets  their  requirements. 

But  how  about  substitutes? 

But  how  is  one  to  know  about  nameless 
substitutes,  of  whose  makers  you  know 
nothing  ?  How  are  they  made  ?  Where  ? 
What  assurance  have  you  of  their  fitness 
for  this  purpose? 

You  have  a  right  to  know — these 
questions  vitally  concern  your  health. 
Accept  no  sanitary  protection  that  can- 
not answer  them  to  your  complete  satis- 
faction, and  guarantee  your  safety. 

After  all,  why  take  a  chance?  Kotex 
is  available  everywhere,  and  offers  every 
advantage  of  comfort  as  well  as  safety. 
It  is  shaped  to  fit. 

It    is   soft  —  and   the   softness   lasts, 


because  laminated  layers  of  Cellucotton 
(not  cotton)  absorbent  wadding  dis- 
tribute moisture  scientifically.  It  is  treated 
to  deodorize.  Adjustable  to  individual 
needs. 

Buy  Kotex  at  any  drug,  dry  goods  or 
department  store;  or,  singly,  in  vending 
cabinets  through  West  Disinfecting  Co. 

Kotex  Company,  Chicago. 

|NIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII]l|ll|||l||||l|l|||!]|||||||H|l|!|l|||!NlllllllllllllllllNIIIII]l!!lll[IIII!!]llllllll![lllllllllllllllg 

IN  HOSPITALS  .  .  . 

I  \  The  Kotex  absorbent  is  the  identical  I 
material  used  by  surgeons  in  85%  of  the  = 
country's  leading  hospitals. 

|  2  Kotex  is  soft  .  .  .  Not  merely  an  ap-  | 
parent  softness,  that  soon  packs  into  chaf-  1 
ing  hardness.  Buta  delicate,  lasting  softness.    I 

;    3    Can  be  worn  on  either  side  with  equal  | 
comfort.  No  embarrassment. 

|    4    Disposable,  instantly,  completely. 

iiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiii 

brings  new  ideals  of  sanitary  comfort!  Woven 
to  fit  by  an  entirely  new  patented  process. 
Firm  yet  light;   wilt  not  curl;  perfect-fitting. 

KOT6X 

Sanitary  Napkins 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November.  1931 


Torchy — laughable,  lovable,  ado- 
lescent youth  —  irrepressible,  irre- 
sponsible, always  in  hot  water. 

Educational  brings  Torchy  back 
to  the  screen  with  Ray  Cooke  —  a 
boy  born  to  fit  the  mischievous 
character  from  the  popular  Sewell 
Ford  stories.  His  boyish  escapades 
will  delight  you — and  you'll  never 
forget  his  beaming,  freckled  face. 

Featuring  RAY  COOKE 
Produced  by  C.  C.  BURR 

These  Torchy  Comedies  are  coming  to  your  neigh- 
borhood theatre.  Watch  for  them,  and  don't  forget 
Educational* s  other  short  subject  entertainment  such 
as  Mack  Sennett's  sparkling  comedies;  three  "Holly- 
wood Girls"  in  Ideal  Comedies;  the  snappy  Terry-Toon 
cartoons;  the  gorgeous  Romantic  Journeys  in  Multi- 
color ;  and  other  quality  short  pictures  by  Educational. 

EDUCATIONAL  FILM  EXCHANGES,  inc. 

E.  W.  HAMMONS,  President 
Executive   Offices:      1501    Broadway,  New  York,  N.  Y. 


(f  (S>cU*x>aZLcmxxJt  UsLctuAjuJ 


"THE  SPICE  OFTHE  PROGRAM' 


Alexander 


Fox  didn't  want  to  play  favorites  so  they  chose  a  blonde,  a  brunette  and 

a  red  head  as  their  candidates  for  stardom.    The  young  ladies  are  known 

as  "debutante  stars"  and  are  (left  to  right)  Helen  Mack,  Linda  Watkins 

and  Conchita  Montenegro.    Helen  is  the  red  head 


craftiness  and  fond  affection  are  mirrored  in 
turn  in  his  otherwise  unattractive  eyes.  His 
enunciation  is  perfect,  and  one's  ear  is  ever 
conscious  that  he  speaks  English  as  it  was  al- 
ways meant  to  be  spoken. 

Mabel  G.  Saver, 
Reading,  Penna. 

Censorship 

One  of  the  easiest  things  a  censor  does  is  to 
kid  himself  that  what  he  doesn't  happen  to  like 
is  a  menace  to  all  theatergoers.  Some  pictures 
might  indicate  a  need  of  censorship,  but  it 
would  be  a  dangerous  step. 

The    movies   as   a    whole    do    not,  in   my 


estimation,  justify    a   tyranny    of    this    sort. 
J.  E.  McMillin, 
Lachine,  Que.,  Can. 

Claudette 

Why  don't  the  fans  acclaim  Claudette  Col- 
bert? I'm  not  a  "writing  fan"  myself,  but  this 
lack  of  enthusiasm  for  one  as  gifted  as  Miss 
Colbert  stirs  my  typewriter  to  action.  She  has 
taken  her  place  so  quietly  and  without  the 
blare  of  publicity  agents,  and  it  seems  to  me 
she  deserves  that  much  more  credit  for  the 
popularity  she  is  making  for  herself. 

E.  Marie  Tebb, 
Aberdeen,  Wash. 


NEXT  MONTH 


Awfully  sorry,  authors — but 
we'll  have  to  ask  you  to  wait 
another  month!  Picking  the 
winners  of  the  Warner  Bros.- 
PHOTOPLAY  $2,000  Prize 
Contest  proved  to  be  the  big- 
gest job  we've  ever  tackled. 
In  the  December  issue  the 
best  story  to  fit  the  title  of 
"Beauty  and  the  Boss"  and 
all  other  winners  will  be 
announced. 


The  Story 
Contest 


WINNER! 


The  heat  forced  us  to  cut 
our  judging  down  to  twelve 
hours  a  day.  Week-end  trips, 
golf  games  and  ocean  plunges 
went  by  the  board.  Every 
single  manuscript  got  minute 
consideration.  First  a  thou- 
sand scripts  were  picked.  As 
this  goes  to  press  we  have 
them  cut  to  five  hundred. 
Please  be  patient — and  watch 
the  December  issue! 

The  Editor. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


95 


Vicarious  Romance 


One  would  think,  being  past  the  romantic 
age,  I  would  be  through  with  romance.  But 
I'm  not. 

I  live  over  much  of  the  past  when  I  go  to 
the  movies,  at  least  the  pleasant  part. 

Even  though  pictures  cannot,  or  have  not 
solved  the  problem  why  old  maids  like  me  can- 
not find  a  mate,  I  think  I  could  get  most  any 
spinster  I  know  to  agree  that  they  make  living 
a  little  more  pleasant  for  us. 

M.  H. 
Durham,  No.  Car. 

Tolerance 

After  several  years  of  rather  constant  movie 
attendance,  I  have  been  trying  to  analyze  my 
reaction  to  motion  pictures'  influence.  What 
they  have  done  more  than  anything  else,  I 
find,  has  been  to  teach  me  tolerance.  From  a 
puritanical  and  holier-than-thou  attitude,  I 
have  been  brought  to  see  that  most  of  us  are 
susceptible  to  the  urgencies  of  circumstance, 
and  to  desire,  and  that  patience  and  under- 
standing tolerance  are  two  of  the  greatest  qual- 
ities a  man  can  have. 

C.  J.  Wixkley, 
Clinton,  Wis. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  109  ] 


Leave  it  to  Anita  Page  to  revive  a  nice 
old  gadget — the  ring  handkerchief- 
folder.  This  was  the  fashion  many 
years  ago,  and  it's  just  as  nice  today. 
But  of  course  Anita  could  make  any 
gadget  worth-while,  don't  you  think? 


-But  dare 


Use  on  your  own  dainty  things  the  soap 
which  salespeople  in  the  finest  stores 
approve  .  .  .  pure  white  Ivory. 

The  famous  New  \ork  store  which 
actually  sold  6tockings  of  cobwebby 
handmade  lace  at  $500  a  pair  said:  "We 
can  recommend  Ivory  with  confidence 
because  we  know  it  is  pure." 

Salespeople  in  the  nicest  store  in 
\^  ashington  that  sells  Parisian  coats  to 
millionaire  babies  recommend  Ivory  for 
all  baby  garments.  "Ivory  is  safest  for 
colors  and  keeps  woolens  soft  and  fluffy." 

Recently  in  a  leading  Boston  depart- 

IVORY 

Kind  to  everything  it  touches 

99%0°/oPure 


ment  store,  Ivory  wTas  the  only  soap 
recommended  in  interviews  with  sales- 
people for  washing  silk  dresses,  sweaters, 
baby  clothes,  and  sets  of  the  loveliest 
French  underwear  costing  hundreds  of 
dollars. 

In  the  fine  stores  of  your  own  city  you 
will  find  Ivory  recommended  oftener 
than  any  other  soap. 

You  can  buy  Ivory  Soap  in  cake  form, 
or  quick -dissolving  Ivory  Flakes,  or 
Ivory  Snow. 

c    1931    P.  &  G.  Co. 


96 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Specialist 

discusses  the 
^Postal 
(Service 


POSTMAN  NEWT  seemed  to 
take  a  delight  in  deliverin'  bills 
and  often  seemed  reluctant  to  hand 
you  a  letter  from  your  boy  or  girl  in 
the  city.  By  the  noise  he  made  at 
your  door  you  never  could  tell  if  he 
had  a  picture  card,  an  ordinary  two- 
center,  an  airmail  or  an  airmail  spe- 
cial delivery.  It  all  was  jest  mean 
spirited  on  his  part.  Things  went 
from  bad  to  worse  till  folks  started 
writin'  to  Washington  to  have  Newt 
recalled. 

Then  one  day  Grandma  White, 
returnin'  good  for  evil,  sez:  "Newt, 
have  some  of  these  little  chocolate 
candies?"  Newt  took  'em  and  ate 
'em.  Every  day  or  so  for  a  week 
Grandma  gave  him  some. 

Well  sir,  there  ain't  a  finer  post- 
man in  the  country  than  Newt  now. 
He  delivers  bills  with  regrets.  He 
smiles  when  he  has  a  regular  letter. 
And  you  can  tell  by  the  noise  he 
makes  at  the  door  whether  you  ought 
to  rush  out  or  jest  let  him  drop  your 
mail  in  the  box. 


Ex-Lax  tastes  like  delicious  chocolate.  But 
in  it  is  concealed  that  scientific  laxative  ingre- 
dient,  phenolphthalein,of  thecotrect  quality, in 
the  cotrect  ptopottion,  in   the  correct  dose. 

Millions  look  for  the  familiar  blue  tin  Ex-Lax 
box,  because  Ex-Lax  checks  on  every  point  the 
doctor  looks  for  in  a  laxative.  At  all  druggists. 
10^,  25^,  50^,  or  send  coupon  for  sample. 

Keep  "regular"  with 


LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


y 


FREE 


SAMPLE  of  Ex-Lax  andV^ 
"CHIC"  SALE'S  WELLS 
CORNERS  GAZETTE 


Namt 

Addrut . 


Cltj Statt 

Mail  this  coupon  to  The  Ex-Lax  Co.    P.  O.  Box  170. 
"S^  Times  Plaza  Sta.,   Brooklyn.  N.  Y.  P.  H.  111^" 


Wide  World 


Here's  Lily  Damita,  turning  loose  the  famous  million-candlepower  grin  as 
her  liner  pulls  into  New  York  harbor  after  a  holiday  at  home.  What  a  girl ! 
What  zest  and  zingo !    Now  for  some  more  talkies,  full  of  the  old  Damita 

beauty  and  zip 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  16  ] 


SKY  RAIDERS,  THE— Columbia.— Gangsters  in 
the  air!  Thrilling  stuff  and  good  entertainment. 
(July) 

•     SMART  MONEY— Warners.— Moves  as  fast 
as   the  money   on   the   gambling  tables  in  it. 
Plenty  of  laughs  and  excitement.     (July) 

SMART  WOMAN— Radio  Pictures.— What  a 
performance  Mary  Astor  gives  and  in  what  beautiful 
clothes!  A  charming,  sophisticated  yarn  of  the 
"Holiday"  school.     (Oct.) 

•  SMILING  LIEUTENANT,  THE  —  Para- 
mount.— One  of  the  breeziest  and  most  tuneful 
entertainments  in  a  long  time.  Chevalier  at  his  best, 
under  Lubitsch  direction.     See  it.     (July) 

SON  OF  INDIA— M-G-M  —  A  fairy-tale  sort  of 
thing  with  Ramon  Novarro  as  Prince  Charming. 
If  you  like  Oriental  romance,  this  is  it!     (Aug.) 


SPIDER,  THE— Fox. — Thrills  and  shivers  over  a 
murder  in  a  theater.  Eddie  Lowe  is  grand  and 
suspense  is  geared  on  high.     (Oct.) 

SPORTING  BLOOD— M-G-M— The  biography 
of  a  race  horse.  Not  interested?  All  right,  then. 
Clark  Gable  has  a  featured  role.  That  should  get 
you.    It's  a  good  movie.    (Sept.) 

•     SQUAW     MAN,     THE— M-G-M.— A     new 
version  of  a   grand  old  story.     See   it  by  all 
means.     Warner  Baxter  and  Lupe  Velez.     (Aug.) 

•  STAR  WITNESS,  THE— First  National.— 
At  last!  An  entirely  new  plot  with  suspense, 
humor,  heartache.  Walter  Huston,  Chic  Sale  and 
Frances  Starr  are  in  it.    Worth  your  time.     (Sept.) 

•  STEPPING  OUT— M-G-M— Charlotte 
Greenwood,  Leila  Hyams,  Reg.  Denny.  Cliff 
Edwards.  Merna  Kennedy,  Harry  Stubbs  and  Lilian 
Bond  make  this  light  comedy  one  continual  laugh. 
See  it.    (May) 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


97 


•  STRANGERS  MAY  KISS— M-G-M.— Norma 
Shearer,  the  last  word  in  sophistication  and 
beautifully  gowned  in  a  vivid  drama  of  modern  life  by 
the  same  author  as  "The  Divorcee."  To  be  seen. 
(May) 


•  STREET  SCENE— United  Artists.— Thirty- 
four  excellent  actors  and  super-direction  by 
King  Vidor  make  this  one  of  the  great  pictures  of 
the  year.  A  vivid  cross-section  of  life  you'll  never 
forget.     (Oct.) 


SUBWAY  EXPRESS— Columbia.— Jack  Holt  in 
a  thrilling  mystery  of  the  stage  that  lost  its  kick  in  the 
movie  version.     (July) 


SUNDOWN  TRAIL— RKO-Pathe. 
helps  a  poor  Western.     (Oct.) 


-Good  acting 


•  SUSAN  LENOX,  HER  FALL  AND  RISE 
— M-G-M-. — Romance  spread  thick,  passion 
strong.  You  Garbo-maniacs  will  eat  it  up.  Clark 
Gable  plays  opposite.     Don't  miss  it.     (Sept.) 


SVENGALI  —  Warners.  —  Well  worth  seeing  for 
John  Barrymore's  superb  performance  in  the  title 
role.  The  story  is  rather  gruesome.  Don't  take  the 
children.     (June) 


SWANEE  RIVER  — Sono  Art-World  Wide.— 
Thelma  Todd  and  Grant  Withers  try.  but  just  can't 
save  this  melodrama  from  being  anything  but  ordi- 
nary.    (May) 


SWEEPSTAKES— RKO-Pathe.— Some  romance, 
thrills  and  fast  lines  in  a  race-track  yarn.  Quillan 
and  Gleason  take  honors.     (Aug.) 


•  TABU — Paramount. — A  poem  of  a  picture  laid 
in  the  South  Seas,  with  an  all-native  cast, 
beautifully  directed  by  the  late  F.  W.  Murnau.  Fine 
synchronized  musical  score.     (May) 


TAILOR  MADE  MAN,  A— M-G-M.— The  jaunty 
and  self-confident  Bill  Haines  plays  this  old  Charlie 
Ray  silent  with  a  new  restraint  that  is  delightful. 
You'll  laugh  and  like  it.     (May) 


TARNISHED  LADY— Paramount.— Introducing 
Tallulah  Bankhead,  from  Alabama  and  the  London 
stage,  in  a  heavy  love  diama.  Clive  Brook  is  the  lead- 
ing man.    (June) 


Hail  to  another  newcomer!  Shake 
hands,  nicely,  with  Astrid  Allwyn,  a 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  recruit.  She's 
a  Swedish  girl,  born  in  America,  who 
has  played  on  the  New  York  stage. 
Metro  may  be  a  little  partial  to 
Swedes,  because  of  some  girl  named 
Garbo,  or  something 


COLDS 


make  handkerchiefs 
revolting! 


For  your  own  sake  and 

that  of  others,  use  Kleenex 

disposable  tissues 

HERE'S  a  remarkable  thing  about 
Kleenex.  Those  who  use  it  regu- 
larly, invariably  report:  "A  handkerchief 
seems  perfectly  disgusting  to  me  now." 
So  it  will  be  with  you.  Habit  has 
blinded  you  to  the  actual  condition  of 
your  handkerchief.  You've  gone  on,  year 
after  year,  carrying  incredible  pollution 
in  your  handkerchief.  Tests  show  a 
single  use  during  colds  may  pollute  a 
handkerchief  with  240,000  danger  germs. 

Use  Kleenex  and  destroy 

Now  we  ask  you  to  try  Kleenex.  We 
send  you  a  sample  free,  at  your  request. 
Try  Kleenex  for  a  week.  Use  each  tissue 
just  once,  then  destroy  it.  Free  yourself 
from  handkerchief  washing.  Compare 
the  exquisite,  cloth-like  texture  of  these 
dainty   tissues   with   the  softest  of  old 


linen  handkerchiefs.  Then  try  to  go  back 

to  handkerchiefs.  Like  so  many  others, 

you   will   find   your 

handkerchief  "perfectly 

disgusting."   You   will 

want  to   destroy  it 

after   using,   as   you 

have  learned  to  do  with 

Kleenex. 

Use  Kleenex  for  pol- 
ishing spectacles;  for 
dusting;  for  wiping 
razor  blades;  and  for 
removing  face  creams. 

Buy  Kleenex  at  any 
drug,  dry  goods  or  de- 
partment store. 


PNEUMOCOCCUS 
GERMS 

(illustrated  above) 
were  among  the 
dangerous  germs 
found  in  handker- 
chiefs used  during 
colds.  UseKleenex 
Tissues  and  de- 
stroy at  once,  to 
avoid  self-infec- 
tion when  you 
have  a  cold. 


KLEENEX 


Disposable 
TISSUES 


Kleenex   Company, 
Lake  Michigan  Bldg., 
Chicago,  Illinois. 

Please  send  free  trial 
supply  of  Kleenex. 


Name  _ 
Street 


PH-11 


City . 


.State - 


In  Canada,  Add.:  330  Bay  St.,   Toronto,  Ont. 


Dirty  handkerchiefs  are  a  menace  to  society! 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Theyll  say  .  .  . 

*  // 

A  perfect  match 


•  There's  a  double  charm  in  these  Traub 
matched  sets.  The  Girl  will  want  a  delicate 
circlet  .  .  .  hand-chased,  and  finely  finished. 
The  Man  will  prefer  a  wider  band,  of  the  same 
design,  yet  heavier  — more  masculine.  And 
both  drz  right  and  both  are  satisfied  .  .  .  when 
wedding  rings  are  designed  for  two! 

•  Shall  yours  be  of  gold  or  platinum  .  .  . 
engraved,  or  studded  with  gems?  It's  fun  to 
choose,  and  wise  not  to  hurry,  in  purchasing 
rings  you'll  wear  for  so  long.  And  it's  easy  to 
choose,  and  surely  it's  wise,  to  buy  a  Traub! 

•  For  Traub  rings  are  carefully  executed,  of 
the  finest  metals,  of  chosen  gems.  They're 
designed  in  beauty,  and  made  by  skilled 
craftsmen.  Perfect  unbroken  circles,  Traub 
rings  are  seamless  and  flawless. 

•  Stop  in  and  consult  your  jeweler  .  .  .  and 
ask  his  advice  about  your  purchase.  He  has 
other  things  of  the  same  fine  character  that  you 
will  need  for  your  new  home. 

•  And  we'll  be  delighted  to  help  you  too. 
Send  for  our  booklet,  "Bridal  Etiquette," 
when  you're  planning  the  perfect  wedding 
...  for  the  perfect  match.  Traub  Manufacturing 
Company,  1933  McGraw  Avenue,  Detroit, 
Michigan,  and  Walkerville,  Ontario. 

Loo\  for  this  mar\  on  every 
Genuine  "Orange  Blossom"  ring 


-@- 


Tra  ii  l» 


Above — Groom's  Orange  Blossom  wedding  ring  in  plati- 
num, from  $55,  in  gold,  from  $18.  Bride's  Orange  Blossom 
ring  in  platinum,  from  $22.50,  in  gold,  from  $10.  . .  .  Many 
other  Traub  engagementand  wedding  ringsfrom$10to  $500. 


And  how  do  you  like  Juliette  Compton's  hair-comb?    Brand-new, 

and  her  own  idea.     Her  locks  are  parted  just  off  the  middle  on 

the  right  side,  and  are  worn  in  a  loose  roll  at  the  nape  of  the  neck. 

You'll  see  Juliette  this  way  in  "Rich  Man's  Folly" 


TEXAS  RANGER,  THE— Columbia.— Carmelita 
Geraghty  is  the  gal.  Buck  Jones  the  hero.     (July) 


THIRTEEN    MEN    AND    A    GIRL— UFA.— A 

dreary    tragedy.    Foreign    made,    English   dialogue. 
(Oct.) 


THREE  LOVES— Terra.— Marlene  Dietrich  is 
the  only  reason  for  seeing  this  three-year-old  Ger- 
man silent.    (Aug.) 


THREE  WHO  LOVED— Radio  Pictures.— Ex- 
cellent acting  by  Betty  Compson  and  Conrad  Nagel 
in  a  production  that  suffers  from  too  much  story. 
(Aug.) 


TOO  MANY  COOKS  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Bert 
Wheeler's  first  starring  picture,  minus  Mr.  Woolsey. 
Plenty  of  laughs,  some  lumps  in  the  throat  and  Doro- 
thy Lee  as  the  heart  appeal.     (June) 


•  TRANSATLANTIC  —  Fox.  —Edmund  Lowe 
and  Greta  Nissen  plus  an  exciting  melodramatic 
plot,  make  this  one  of  those  hit  pictures  you  mustn't 
fail  to  see.     (Sept.) 


TRANSGRESSION— Radio  Pictures.— The  same 
old  angle  of  the  eternal  triangle.  Kay  Francis  wears 
swell  clothes.     (Aug.) 


TRAPPED — Big  Four.— Fights,  songs,  gangsters, 
night  clubs,  murders,  chases,  plus  a  confused  plot. 
(June) 


TRAVELING  HUSBANDS— Radio  Pictures. 
Risque  but  not  objectionably  so.  Top-notch  acting, 
with  Evelyn  Brent  in  the  lead.    (July) 


TWO-GUN  MAN,  THE— Tiffany.— A  Western  in 
old  swashbuckling  style,  nothing  new  but  good  enter- 
tainment.    Ken  Maynard  and  horse!     (Aug.) 


UNFAITHFUL— Paramount.— Ruth  Chatterton. 
a  society  matron  who  can't  divorce  her  faithless  hus- 
band (Paul  Cavanaugh)  without  involving  her  own 
sister-in-law,  and  so  goes  to  the  dogs.  Good  for  the 
Chatterton  fans.     (May) 


UNHOLY  GARDEN,  THE— United  Artists  — 
Far-fetched  melodrama  and  romance  in  a  Sahara 
castle,  with  Ronald  Colman  working  hard  to  save 
the  impossible  story.     (Oct.) 


UPPER  UNDERWORLD  — First  National.— 
Different  from  the  average  racketeering  picture  and 
bound  to  make  you  think.     (July) 


UP  POPS  THE  DEVIL— Paramount.— Young 
love  and  its  struggles  neatly  handled  by  Norman 
Foster,  as  a  young  author,  and  his  wife,  played  by 
Carole    Lombard.      Sprightly    dialogue.      (July) 


•  VICE  SQUAD,  THE— Paramount.— Besides 
being  something  that  will  keep  you  interested, 
this  is  a  picture  you'll  think  about.  Paul  Lukas,  Kay 
Francis  and  Helen  Johnson  are  excellent.     (July) 


VIKING,  THE— Varick  Frissell  Production.— A 
picture  of  the  boat  that  met  Arctic  tragedy.  Good 
photography.    (Aug.) 


VIRTUOUS  HUSBAND,  THE— Universal.— One 
of  those  over-sexed  things.  Starts  off  to  be  a  howl 
and  then  goes  serious  and  ends  by  being  pretty  bad. 
(June)j 


WAITING  AT  THE  CHURCH— Radio  Pictures. 
— An  amusing  story  with  lovely  Technicolor  effects. 
(July) 


•  WATERLOO  BRIDGE  —  Universal.  —  It's 
morbid,  yes.  but  it's  intelligent  and  honest 
screen  fare.  A  war  background,  but  don't  let  that 
stop  you.     You'll  like  Mae  Clarke.     (Sept.) 


WEST  OF  BROADWAY— M-G-M— John  Gil- 
bert's voice  is  low — so  is  the  entertainment  value  of 
the  picture.  Jack  is  a  war  veteran  with  six  months 
to  live.     (Oct.) 


WHITE  SHOULDERS— Radio  Pictures.— Rex 
Beach's  dramatic  story  makes  an  interesting  picture. 
Jack  Holt.  Mary  Astor  and  Ricardo  Cortez  form  the 
triangle.    (July) 


WICKED  —  Fox.  —  Elissa  Landi  and  Victor 
McLaglen  are  good  in  a  too  heavy  drama  about  a 
bank  robber  and  his  wife  who  go  to  jail.     (Oct.) 


WILD  HORSE— Allied.— Hoot  Gibson  captures  a 
wild  horse,  a  bank  bandit,  a  murderer  and  his 
audience's  approval,  all  in  one  handsome  gesture. 
(Sept.) 


WILD  WEST  WHOOPEE— Cosmo.— Jack  Perrin 
in  a  conventional  Western  saved  by  a  thrilling  rodeo 
sequence  and  the  noble  work  of  his  horse.  Starlight. 
Josephine  Hill  is  the  heroine.    (May) 


WOMAN  BETWEEN,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— 
Heavy  drama  with  lots  of  emotion  and  a  song  from 
Lily  Damita.  Miriam  Seegar  is  the  one  bright  spot. 
(June) 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


WOMAN  OF  EXPERIENCE,  A— RKO-Pathe.— 
Only  average  entertainment,  in  spite  of  a  cast  which 
does  its  best.  Helen  Twelvetrees,  ZaSu  Pitts  and 
Lew  Cody.     (July) 

WOMEN  GO  ON  FOREVER— Tiffany-Cruze.— 
Your  old  friend  Clara  Kimball  Young  makes  a  good 
comeback  in  this  story  of  racketeers  and  illicit  love. 
A  lively  film  with  plenty  of  comedy  relief.    (Sept.) 

WOMEN  LOVE  ONCE— Paramount.— Produc- 
ers wasted  their  time  and  that  of  Eleanor  Boardman 
and  Paul  Lukas  on  this  one.    (Aug.) 

WOMEN  MEN  MARRY  —  Headline  Prod.  — 
Don't  take  this  picture  too  seriously  and  you  may 
not  find  it  too  dull.  Sally  Blane  is  nice  and  Natalie 
Moorhead  wears  startling  clothes.     (Sept.) 


WOMEN  OF  ALL  NATIONS  — Fox.— Edmund 
Lowe  and  Victor  McLaglen  as  Quirt  and  Flagg  of 
"What  Price  Glory''  fame,  continue  their  adventures. 
Good,  rough  entertainment,  but  not  a  Sunday  school 
text.     (July) 

YOUNG  AS  YOU  FEEL— Fox.— Another  grand 
Will  Rogers'  film,  funny  enough  to  make  you  forget  a 
toothache.     (July) 

•  YOUNG  DONOVAN'S  KID— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Good.  From  Rex  Beach's  story  "  Big 
Brother."  Little  Jackie  Cooper  practically  steals  the 
show  in  spite  of  Dix's  excellent  work.     (July) 

YOUNG  SINNERS— Fox.— The  old  story'  of 
modern  kids  in  a  jazz  and  cocktail  setting.  Thomas 
Meighan  is  a  bright  spot.  Dorothy  Jordan  and  Hardie 
Albright  give  an  exhibition  of  couch  wrestling.   (July) 


Seymour  seems  to  think  this  outfit 
of  Dorothy  Jordan's  is  about  right. 
The  fur  is  bronze  Alaskan  seal  which 
is  very  popular  this  Winter.  It  takes 
a  three-quarter  length  that  Seymour 
says  is  good  and  that  hat  is  pretty 
perky,  too.  All  in  all,  Dorothy  is  a 
smart  girl! 


Among  beauty  s  fascinations,  what  can  ecjual  a  lovely  mouth? 
E,ven  the  eyes  have  less  £>owerto  draw  ana  capture.  In  Oriental  Lands, 
you  know,  women  had  to  veil  the  lower  f>art  of  the  face.  Convention 
and  the  jealousy  of  their  men  did  not  dare  risk  the  display  of  alluring 
lif>s.  Dut  we  veil  neither  mouth  nor  eyes; 
we  use  every  beauty  aid  to  both.  That  is 
why  women  are  chewing  DOUBLE  MINT. 
^lore  chewing  exercise  than  modern  foods 
afford  is  needed  for  facial  beauty.  So  enjoy 
DOUBLE    MINT   daily.    It  keef>s  lif>s  young. 


nqLfemiyt 


L-86 


WRIGLEVS 


TOO 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


oftlasi... 


Don't  Go  Platinum  Yet! 


..what  uxxmeti  hxwelwen 
Iwpiny  foz..  a  NEW 

im^rovci  Maybelline 
&yelash  Beautijier,  that .  .  . 

.  .  .  does  not  smart  the  eyes  if  acci- 
dentally gotten  into  them  .  .  . 

. .  .  is  perfectly  tear-proof  and  will 
not  run  or  smear .  .  . 

. .  .  applies  more  evenly  and  smoothly 
with  greater  ease  .  .  . 

.  .  .  contains  beneficial  oils  tltat  tend 
to  promote  tlie  growth  of  tlie  lashes 
ani  keep  them  soft  and  glossy .  .  . 

.  .  .  removes  easily  with  soap  and 
water  or  with  cold  cream. 

IAJEGardless  of your  vast  experience  with  eyelash 
darlccncrs ,  go  to  your  toilet  goods  counter  and  pur- 
chase avacliage  of  the  new  solid  form  Maybelline. 
Absolutely  harmless.  You  unll  be  amazed  and 
delighted  with  tKe  results.  15i — Black  or  Broun. 

For  \Oi  ani  coupon  Iclow  we  will  scni  Purse 
Sizefor  trial. 


&jclajh  Micautijicr 

CLIP 

Maybelline  Co.,  5900-12  Ridge  Ave.,  Chicago 
10fS  enclosed.   Send  me  a  Purse   Size  package 
of  the  new  Maybelline.    □  Black   □  Brown. 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  30  ] 


hlamc... 
Aidrcss.. 


shops  from  S2  to  S6,  not  counting  the  shampoo 
and  wave.  Bleached  hair  should  have  an  oil 
shampoo  at  least  once  a  week  or  of  tener,  which 
adds  another  SI  .50  or  $2.  All  dyed  or  bleached 
hairneedsconstant  attention  to  brushing,  oiling 
and  shampooing  to  retain  a  glossy  appearance, 
without  which  no  head  of  hair  is  attractive. 
And  platinum  is  one  shade  that  cannot  be 
neglected. 

Remember  also,  excessively  bleached  hair  can 
not  be  permanently  waved.  No  reputable 
shop  would  take  a  chance  with  it.  The  pos- 
sibilities are  that  it  would  become  a  gelatinous 
mass  after  the  permanent,  and  every  vestige 
of  it  break  off  at  the  roots,  leaving  the  cus- 
tomer in  need  of  a  wig  rather  than  a   wave. 

Are  you  feeling  terrible  now?  Well,  bear  with 
me  a  while  longer.     I  have  more  sad  news. 

You  can't  have  platinum  hair  and  dress  like 
ordinary  folks.  You  must  have  expensive 
clothes  to  live  up  to  that  hair.  It  is  theatrical 
and  spectacular.  You  must  have  theatrical 
and  spectacular  clothes.  You  must  always 
look  your  best.  No  simple  clothes  with  that 
hair.  No  ma'am!  Furs  and  velvets  and  laces 
and  brocades  are  an  absolute  necessity.  Plat- 
inum hair,  like  the  metal  for  which  it  is  named, 
is  the  most  expensive  of  all. 

If  you're  still  deadly  determined  to  go  plat- 
inum, then  be  sure  of  a  few  things  about 
yourself  first. 

You  must  be  young — not  more  than  twenty- 
five.  You  must  have  a  transparent  skin.  You 
must  consider  the  color  of  your  teeth,  for 
teeth  that  are  at  all  inclined  to  be  yellow 
seem  even  more  so  with  platinum  hair. 

You  must  be  sophisticated,  or  at  least  highly 
modern.  You  simply  must  not  consider  it  if 
you're  the  old-fashioned  type.  You  must  have 
sparkling  eyes  and  should  have  a  tip-tilted 
nose. 

Your  make-up  will  need  careful  attention, 
for  platinum  hair  lightens  the  entire  color  tone 
of  the  face. 


Now  don't  let  all  this  discourage  you  about 
making  the  most  of  whatever  share  of  beauty 
you  have.  That  is  every  woman's  right  and 
duty  to  herself.  Moderate  bleaching  and 
tinting  of  the  hair  is  an  accepted  method  of 
enhancing  the  attractiveness  of  women,  and 
with  the  new  style  in  hats  which  displays  the 
hair  so  generously,  blonde  hair  will  probably 
have  a  greater  vogue  than  ever  before. 

It's  one  thing  to  have  a  light  bleach  to  bring 
out  the  high  lights  in  one's  hair,  but  something 
else  again  to  go  platinum. 

Here  is  the  consensus  of  opinion  among  the 
best  hairdressers  in  New  York,  Chicago  and 
Hollywood: 

"It  is  absolutely  ruinous  to  the  hair  of  the 
average  person.  If  you  go  platinum  you  can 
expect  to  have  nice  hair  for  a  period  of  six 
months  only.  Then  it  will  break  off  and  the 
life  will  be  gone."  (John,  at  R.  Louis,  New 
York,  who  has  treated  Jean  Harlow's  hair.) 

"When  naturally  dark  hair  is  bleached  to 
the  average  blonde  shade  it  loses  ninety  per 
cent  of  its  life.  The  platinum  rinse  makes  it 
even  lighter;  therefore,  you  can  judge  its 
effect  upon  the  hair."  (Semon,  of  the  Dorothy 
Gray  salon,  New  York.) 

"TT  will  cost  you,  dependent  upon  the 
Loriginal  color  of  your  hair,  from  $14  to  $40 
a  month  for  the  bleaching  alone  and  this  does 
not  include  waves,  which  must  be  had  at 
least  twice  a  week,  because  platinum  hair  does 
not  hold  the  wave.  And,  not  including  time 
spent  on  waves,  it  will  take  from  twelve  to 
twenty  hours  a  month  of  your  time."  (Emile, 
New  York.) 

"If  you  become  a  platinum  blonde  you  must 
change  your  entire  makeup,  using  completely 
different  color  of  rouge,  powder,  lipstick,  etc. 
Your  hair  must  be  washed  and  waved  at 
least  twice  a  week  and  dyed  once  a  week." 
(Reno,  of  Charles  of  the  Ritz,  New  York.) 

"It  is  the  most  expensive  of  all  hair  dyes 


Copyright  1931.  LIFE  Publishing  Company 


'Do  you  mind  if  I  dye  my  hair  blonde,  Mummy — I'm  not  getting  any- 
where with  the  men" 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


IOI 


and  requires  only  the  most  expert  handling." 
(Mary  Elizabeth  Johnston,  head  of  Hudnut 
Salon,  New  York.) 

"The  coating  left  by  the  rinse  makes  the 
hair  very  difficult  to  manage  for  soft  effects, 
as  it  stretches  the  wave  in  both  permanents 
and  naturally  curly  hair.  It  sometimes  even 
takes  out  a  natural  wave."  (Kathleen  Mary 
Quinlan,  New  York.) 

"Truly  elegant  women  will  consider  it  no 
more  than  a  fad  of  the  moment  and  will  not 


Picking  the 
Winners! 

The  judges  are  hard  at  work 
on  the  solutions  submitted  in 

Photoplay's  Famous 

$5,000  Annual  Prize 
Contest 

The  names  of  the  lucky  70 

who  win  prizes  will  be  an' 

nounced  in  the 

January,  1932,  Issue  of 
Photoplay 

On  sale  at  all  neivsstands 
about  Dec.  10 


subject  their  hair  to  it."  (Madame  Helena 
Rubenstein,  New  York.) 

"Platinum  bleaching  is  injurious  to  the  hair, 
even  when  expertly  done."  (Dimitri — from 
Antoine  of  Paris — at  Saks  Fifth  Ave.,  New 
York.) 

Paul,  of  Fifth  Ave.,  New  York,  refuses  to 
do  the  job  at  all,  for  he  says  it  ruins  his 
permanent  wave  business,  because  the  hair 
breaks  off  and  leaves  nothing  for  him  to  wave. 

"Normal  bleaching  is  not  particularly  in- 
jurious to  the  hair,  if  given  care  with  oil 
shampoos  and  brushing,  but  bleaching  nec- 
essary for  a  platinum  color  kills  the  hair  and 
the  results  will  be  disastrous  unless  one  is 
naturally  very  blonde  to  start  with."  (Anna, 
of  Anna  Louise,  Hollywood.) 

"The  strenuous  bleaching  necessary  to  a 
platinum  color  is  not  approved  by  Elizabeth 
Arden.  The  patron  is  informed  of  this  and  we 
only  give  the  treatment  if  she  insists  upon  it, 
or  has  already  had  it  elsewhere."  (Eugene 
Fleugel,  of  Elizabeth  Arden,  Chicago.) 

Summing  the  platinum  question  up  it  seems 
to  be  this: 

IT  is  a  fad,  and  as  such  is  all  right  for  the 
movie  stars  and  stage  folks.  They  have 
enough  money  and  time  to  do  it,  and  not  only 
can  they  afford  the  very  best  hairdressers, 
but  they  have  the  privilege  of  going  back  to 
natural  when  the  hair  begins  to  break  and 
it's  all  in  the  service  of  Art.  It  looks  great 
on  the  screen  but  it  simply  isn't  for  the  likes 
of  you  and  me — the  average  girls  who  do  the 
average  things. 

Jean  Harlow  herself,  fighting  against  the 
continuance  of  the  ultra-sexy  roles  in  her 
screen  career,  decries  the  "platinum"  craze 
more  than  anyone  else.  She  has  expressed 
herself  on  the  question  to  Photoplay  rep- 
resentatives who  have  aided  in  the  collection 
of  the  information  contained  in  this  article. 


ACTUAL  CASE  HISTORIES 


POINT     THE      WAY      TO      SKI\      KtVIIIMSS 


HALF-FACE  TEST  PROVES 
WOODBURY'S  FACIAL  SOAP 
FINEST    OF   ALL   BEAUTY   AIDS. 

"Skin  finer  on  right  side."  "Oiliness, 
blackheads  gone."  "Pores  shrunk." 
"Better  color,  skin  clearer." 

Reports  of  15  dermatologists  reveal  what 
happened  when  612  women  compared 
Woodbury's  Facial  Soap  with  other 
cleansers  in  a  30-day  test! 

Each  day,  these  612  women  cared  for  the 
left  side  of  their  faces  with  their  cus- 
tomary preparations.  On  the  right  side, 
each  applied  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap. 

By  the  end  of  the  month,  Woodbury's 
had  corrected  103  cases  of  blackheads, 
83  cases  of  coarse  pores,  115  cases  of  ex- 
cessive oiliness,  106  cases  of  acne,  81 
cases  of  dry  skin.  Even  naturally  lovely 
skins  grew  clearer,  more  healthy,  under 
Woodbury's  care.  No  other  beauty  treat- 
ments showed  such  results. 


The  reasons  for  this  are  in  the  special 
formula  of  Woodbury's.  In  superfine  in- 
gredients. In  milling  methods,  too  costly 
to  be  used  in  ordinary  toilet  soap. 

Resolve  now  to  use  Woodbury's  on  your 
skin,  to  have  "a  skin  you  love  to  touch" 
if  you  lack  one  ...  to  insure  its  sacred 
future  if  your  skin  is  already  lovely. 

The  nearest  drug  store  or  toilet  goods 
counter  has  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap  . . . 
or  we  will  mail  a  generous  sample  to- 
gether with  "The  Index  to  Loveliness" 
for  10fS  and  your  name  and  address. 
John  H.  Woodbury,  Inc.,  811  Alfred  St., 
Cincinnati,  Ohio.  In  Canada,  John  H. 
Woodbury,  Ltd.,  Perth,  Ontario. 


To      please     a      Man      at      Christmas 


New  Woodbury's  Gift  Box  for  Men.  The  gift 
every  man  wants— but  seldom  buys  himself! 
It  contains  Woodbury's  Facial  Soap,  Talc, 
Shaving  Cream,  and  Woodbury's  After-Shav- 
ing Lotion  .  .  .  Special  value  for  one  dollar. 
At  all  drug  stores  and  toilet  goods  counters. 


©  1931.  John  H.  Woodborr.  loo. 


102 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


INo  guesswork 

here  / 
xchmixm  offers 


TABLEAU  by  Johnston  is  a  totally  new 
idea  in  candy  packaging!  Wherever 
you  live,  you  now  can  buy  candy  from  a 
famous  maker-and  be  sure  of  perfect, 
glowing  freshness  every  time! 

The  package  is  smart,  sparkling,  modem. 
A  package  you  can  give  with  pride  .  . . 
but  amazingly  uncostly.  And  there's  an 
assortment  for  every  taste  and  purse! 

For  gifts,  for  personal  enjoyment,  why 
risk  inferior  candies  ever?  .  .  .  now  that 
Johnston  offers  freshness  you  can  see. 


My  3  Nicest  Parties"  i: 
a  fascinating  booklet  com 
piled  by  the  Johnston  Party 
Bureau,  for  women  who  like 
to  entertain  charmingly.  The 
booklet  is  free —  write  for  it. 


$ 


ROBERT  A.  JOHNSTON  CO. 
Milwaukee,  Wisconsin. 


13-11 


Please  send  me  free  booklet  "My  3  Nicest  Parties." 


Name 

Address.. 
City 


The  Secret  Wedding  of  Mary  Astor 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  29  ] 


"You  see,"  she  smiled,  "if  you  just  act 
normally  in  Hollywood  and  quietly  you  can  get 
away  with  natural  happenings  just  the  same 
as  you  can  in  other  cities.  We  have  made  no 
great  effort  to  keep  it  hidden  so  it  has  re- 
mained hidden." 

And  why  has  she  told  it  now?  Because 
she  and  Dr.  Thorpe  want  to  live  a  natural, 
normal  life.  They  want  their  friends  to  know 
it. 

"Really,  it  is  as  though  the  first  half  of 
my  life  were  a  closed  book.  I  am  another 
woman.  I  remember  the  first  Mary  Astor  as 
though  she  were  some  one  else.  I  know  she 
was  happy;  I  am  glad  that  this  one  can  also 
be  happy. 

"You  have  heard  of  my  fifteen  year  plan. 
I  entered  pictures  in  1920.    I  had  planned  to 


retire  in  1935.  Fifteen  years  is  a  long  life 
for  a  picture  actress. 

"Perhaps  I  won't.  Of  course,  I  can  never 
tell — no  one  can  tell  about  life.  But  I  know  I 
am  never  going  to  put  my  career  before 
children  again! 

"What  does  a  prolonged  career  bring  you 
but  dollars?  To  become  a  passe  actress  with 
a  few  extra  dollars? — Never!  Although  half 
of  my  life  is  closed  and  although  I  never  open 
the  shutters,  that  half  has  taught  me  its  lessons. 
Take  life  day  by  day;  happiness  as  it  comes  to 
you. 

"Fight  for  success — yes;  but  don't  burn  all 
your  reserve  oil  in  that  fight.  Enjoy  as  you 
go  along;  take  time  to  relax  and  appreciate 
happiness — you  can  never  enjoy  just  cold 
silver  dollars." 


Why  Women  Go  Crazy  About  Clark  Gable 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  67  ] 


by  a  greater  mystery  than  her  own — a  man  she 
cannot  understand. 

SKILLFULLY,  his  producers  have  given  him 
parts  that  make  him  enigmatic.  He  has  never 
been  all  white,  never  been  all  black.  Almost 
every  role  in  which  he  has  played  holds  back, 
until  the  denouement,  a  phase  of  his  character 
that  he  has  kept  concealed.  Mystery  has  been 
monopolized  by  women.  Clark  Gable  has 
stolen  one  of  their  most  potent  weapons  and 
turned  it  on  them. 

The  characters  which  he  plays  today  would 
have  been  repugnant  a  few  years  ago.  With 
one  exception,  he  has  played  hard-boiled  guys, 
and  his  success  has  been  based  on  those  parts. 
Is  it  not  possible  that  the  long  series  of  gangster 
pictures,  making  heroes  of  underworld  char- 
acters (pardon,  Mr.  Hays),  has  led  up  to  a 
tolerance,  then  an  acceptance,  then  an  admira- 
tion, of  such  men? 

And,  without  any  intent  to  discuss  anything 


political  or  topical,  may  there  not  be  an  un- 
conscious glorification  of  the  man  who,  in  utter 
disregard  of  all  law,  goes  out  and  gets  what  he 
wants  at  the  risk  of  his  neck? 

Women  love  fighting  men.  Clark  Gable  has 
never  played  the  coward  nor  the  weakling.  He 
has  been  a  fighter,  whether  outside  the  law  as 
in  "Free  Soul"  or  as  a  Salvation  Army  worker 
in  "Laughing  Sinners." 

BUT  is  Clark  Gable  all  actor?  Does  he  not 
project  something  of  himself  on  the  screen? 

He  is  not,  and  he  does. 

For  twenty  years,  boy  and  man,  I  have  been 
an  observer  of  the  screen;  for  these  sixteen 
years,  come  next  Michaelmas,  as  editor  of 
Photoplay.  And  I  can  say  truthfully,  having 
had  occasion  to  know  most  of  the  famous  folks 
of  the  screen,  that,  all  in  all,  no  actor  can  hide 
his  real  personality  behind  greasepaint,  make- 
up, nor  art.  The  camera  reads  the  mind  and 
unmasks  the  individual. 


Members  of  the  Dick  Arlen  Wheeling  and  Basket  Lunch  Social  Club  all 

ready  for  one  of  their  outings.    Richard  organized  it  at  Toluca  Lake, 

where  he  lives.     The  members,  left  to  right— Walter  Huston,  Jobyna 

Ralston,  Dick,  Frances  Dee  and  Phillips  Holmes 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


103 


Clark  Gable  has  never  been  the  lady-killer 
in  real  life  any  more  than  he  has  on  the  screen. 

He  has  been  a  stage  actor  for  years.  Starting 
out  from  a  Pennsylvania  Dutch  family  as  a  lad 
he  has  wandered  all  over  America  on  his  own. 
He  has  ridden  the  brake  beams  of  a  freight  car. 
He  has  known  hunger. 

He  has  known  women.  He  has  been  married 
twice  (three  times,  some  say),  so  he  ought  to 
know  something  of  women.  Six  years  ago,  as 
a  small  part  player  on  the  same  lot  where  he 
shines  today  above  Jack  Gilbert,  he  was  un- 
noticed. 

THEN  he  returned  to  the  theater  under  the 
management  of  Louis  MacLoon,  who,  two 
years  ago,  held  him  under  contract  at  the  lowly 
figure  of  $175  a  week. 

Things  went  bad  and  MacLoon  was  forced 
to  release  him  because  there  was  no  more  work 
in  sight. 

He  again  sought  work  in  the  movies.  This 
time  fate  was  kind.    He  got  the  break. 

I  do  not  want  to  spoil  any  illusions  but  I 
must  tell  you  about  the  first  time  I  ever  saw 
Clark  Gable  off  the  screen.  I  was  lunching  in 
the  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  restaurant  in 
Culver  City  when  he  came  in. 

A  particularly  effusive  and  beautiful  blonde 
screen  actress  rushed  up  to  him  and  introduced 
herself. 

"Oh,  Mr.  Gable,"  she  gushed,  "I  think  you 
are  the  finest  actor  on  the  screen." 

I  have  never  seen  a  man  more  ill  at  ease.  He 
looked  around  appealingly.  He  stood  on  one 
foot,  then  the  other.  I  felt  that  under  his 
rough,  three-day  beard  (he  was  making  re- 
takes for  "  Susan  Lenox")  he  was  blushing  like 
a  school  boy. 

"Thanks — ah — yes — thank  you,"  he  stam- 
mered, "but  I'm  afraid  there  are  a  lot  of  them 
on  this  lot  who  know  the  tricks  better  than  I 
do."« 

"Oh,  but  Mr.  Gable,  everyone  knows  you 
are  so  wonderful — " 

"Yes — thanks,"  he  said,  "thanks — yes — 
thank  you.  I  must  be  back  on  the  set — yes — 
thank  you." 

And  the  big  tough-looking  guy  in  the  three- 
day  beard  rushed  out  of  the  restaurant  and  hid 
in  his  dressing-room,  lunching  on  a  ham  sand- 
wich and  a  glass  of  milk. 


November 
Birthdays 

November    1 — Laura  La  Plante 

November    2 — Dennis  King 

November    4 — Don   Alvarado,   Dixie   Lee, 
Will  Rogers 

November    5 — Joel  McCrea 

November    7 — Mona  Maris,  Alice  Day,  Joe 
Cobb 

November    8 — Marie  Prevost 

November    9 — Marie  Dressier,  John  Miljan 

November  1 1 — RaquelTorres,  Roland  Young 

November  12 — Gwen  Lee,  Jack  Oakie 

November  13 — Eddie  Buzzell 

November  15 — Lewis  Stone 

November  16 — Lawrence  Tibbett 

November  17 — Betty  Bronson 
'  November  18 — Frances  Marion 

November  19 — Nancy  Carroll 

November  20 — Robert  Armstrong,  Reginald 
Denny 

November  21 — Jobyna  Ralston 

November  22 — Charles  Mack 

November  25 — Helene  Chadwick,  Margaret 
Livingston,  Vera  Reynolds 

November  20 — Frances  Dee 

November  29 — Mildred  Harris,  Kay  John- 
son, Rod  LaRocque,  Genevieve  Tobin 

November  30 — Jacqueline  Logan 


/t>&idan  by  Dec.  15th? 


Here  is  a  sensible,  practical  loveliness 
plan — The  Thirty  Day  Loveliness  Test. 

This  remarkable  little  book  is  free! 
Yet  through  it  you  may  become  (per- 
haps in  just  a  few  short  weeks)  a  love- 
lier, more  likable,  happier  person. 
•  *  • 

Isn't  there  one  unbreakable  rule 
that  underlies  all  modern  feminine 
loveliness? 

Hands,  for  instance,  to  be  really 
beautiful  must  also  be  really  clean. 
The  recipe  for  high-lights  in  the  hair 
is  frequent,  generous  shampoos. 

Skin  anywhere  on  the  body  that  is 
cleansed  thoroughly  each  day  is  apt 
to  be  clearer,  healthier,  more  colorful. 
Especially  is  this  true  of  the  skin  of 
the  face,  constantly  exposed  as  it  is  to 
grime  of  all  kinds. 

And  finally  there  is  that  mysterious 
quality  of  self-confidence  and  extra 
charm.   Is  there  any  better  guess  than 

CLEANLI NESS 
I  NSTITUTE 

Established  to  promote  pub- 
lic welfare  by  teaching  the 
value  of  cleanliness 


that  this  comes  on  those  mornings  and 
those  evenings  when  we  just  have  had 
a  cleansing  bath  .  .  .  and  in  addition 
have  treated  ourselves  to  a  complete 
change  of  clothes? 

*  *  * 

It  isn't  that  we  do  not  know  these 
things  about  loveliness — and  cleanli- 
ness. It's  just  that  this  is  such  a  busy 
old  world. 

And  right  there  is  where  this  free 
little  book  Tlie  Thirty  Day  Loveliness 
Test  is  such  a  help.  It  provides  you 
with  an  easy  but  carefully-worked-out 
program  to  follow  day-by-day. 

As  for  the   results 
that  you  may  expect 
— say  by  December 
15th,  if  you  write  at 
once  —  well,  that  is 
for  you  to  find  out! 
Use  the  coupon  be- 
low—  now! 


:    CLEANLINESS  INSTITUTE,  Dept- Nil,           Pll-31 

•    45  East  17th  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

i          Please  send  me  free  of  all  cost  "The  Thirtv   Dav 

•    Loveliness  Test." 

Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Grow 


Yes,  Grow  Eyelashes  and  Eye- 
brows like  this  in  30  Days 

Marvelous  new  discovery! — makes  eyelashes  and  eye- 
brows actually  grow!  Now  as  never  before  you  can 
positively  have  Ions,  curling,  silken  lashes  and  beauti- 
ful, wonderful  eyebrows. 

I  say  to  you  in  plain  English  that  no  matter  how  scant 
your  eyelashes  and  brows,  I  will  increase  their  length 
and  thickness  in  30  days — or  not  accept  one  penny. 
No  "ifs,"  "ands,"  or  "maybes" — you  actually  see 
6tartling  results — or  no  pay!  You  be  the  judge. 

Over  10,000  Women  Prove  It 
— prove  beyond  a  doubt  that  this  astounding  new 
discovery  fringes  the  eyes  with  long,  curling  natural 
lashes — makes  eyebrows  lovely,  silken  lines.  Read 
what  they  say — sworn  to  under  oath  before  a  notary 
public.     From  Mile.  Hemefinger,  240  W.  "B"  St., 

Carlisle,  Pa.:  "I  certainly  am  delighted people  now 

remark  how  long  and  silky  my  eyelashes  appear." 
Frances  Raviart  of  Jeanette,  Pa., says:  "Your  Eyelash 
and  Eyebrow  Beautifier  is  simply  marvelous."  Flora 
J.  Corriveau,  Biddeford,  Me.,  says:  "With  your 
Method  my  eyelashes  are  growinglong  and  luxurious." 

Results  Evident  in  One  Week 
In  one  week — often  in  a  day  or  so — you  see  the  lashes 
become  more  beautiful,  like  silken  fringe!  The  darling 
little  upward  curl  shows  itself  and  eyebrows  become 
sleek.  It's  the  thrill  of  a  lifetime — when  you  have 
lashes  and  brows  as  beautiful  as  any  ever  seen. 
Remember — I  guarantee  you  satisfactory  results  in 
30  days — or  your  money  refunded  in  full.  I  mean  just 
that — no  quibble,  no  strings. 
Send  today.  Special  Intro- 
ductory Price  only  $1.95 
NOW!  Later  $5.00.  Order 
NOW  at  low  price. 

Sent  C.  O.  D.—Or  if  money  accom- 
panies order  postage  will  be  prepaid, 


Xs-^H 


Lucille  Young,   656-B Lucille  Young  Bldg.,  Chicago,  . 

Send  me  your  new  discovery  for  growing  eyelashes  " 

and  eyebrows.    If  not  entirely  satisfied,  I'll  return  ; 

in  30  days  and  you  refund  my  money. 

Price  C.  O.  D.  is  S1.95  plus  few  cents  postage  Z 
If  $1.95  sent  with  order  postage  will  be  paid.  ; 
Chect  If  money  enclosed  □  or  C.  O.  D.  D  ; 


Same 

St.  Address. 


City State. 


COLDS 

RUB  Musterole  well  into  your  chest  and 
.throat — almost  instantly  you  feel  easier. 
Repeat  the  Musterole-rub  once  an  hour  for 
five  hours  ...  what  a  glorious  relief! 

Those  good  old-fashioned  cold  remedies — 
oil  of  mustard,  menthol,  camphor — are  mixed 
with  other  valuable  ingredients  in  Musterole 
to  make  it  what  doctors  call  a  "counter- 
irritant"  because  it  gets  action  and  is  not 
just  a  salve. 

It  penetrates  and  stimulates  blood  circula- 
tion and  helps  to  draw  out  infection  and  pain. 
Used  by  millions  for  20  years.  Recommended 
by  many  doctors  and  nurses.   All  druggists. 

To  Mothers — Musterole  is  also  made 
in  milder  form  for  babies  and  small 
children.  Ask  for  Children's  Musterole. 


So  They  Were  Married 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  43 


But,  somehow,  neither  Lew  nor  Lola  could 
get  the  other  out  of  mind. 

In  two  weeks  these  two  were  again  out  dining 
and  dancing. 

And,  suddenly,  they  discovered  it  was  great 
fun  to  be  together.  They  had  so  much  in 
common. 

T3  OTH  loved  to  swim  and  play  tennis.  Each 
■'-'could  sit  for  hours  over  a  game  of  chess. 
Lew,  who  had  played  in  an  orchestra,  loved 
music.    Lola  would  sit  for  hours  at  the  piano. 

Both  were  book  lovers.  They  especially 
liked  stories  about  Southern  California.  They 
read  every  novel  and  history  they  could  find 
about  that  part  of  the  state.  After  finishing  a 
book  they  would  get  in  Lew's  car  and  hunt  up 
the  trail  of  the  story.  They  would  stop  at  the 
various  locations;  ponder  over  the  scenes  and 
people. 

And  Lew,  who  delves  in  astronomy,  took 
Lola  on  trips  into  the  desert,  where  in  the 
tranquil  beauty  of  moonlight  on  silvery  sands, 
he  told  her  the  story  of  the  stars. 

There  were  always  so  many  interesting 
things  to  do! 

One  day  Lola  realized  that  she  hadn't  been 
to  a  party  or  a  "  first  night ' '  for  weeks  and  weeks. 

Like  all  young,  attractive  girls  she  loved 
pretty  frocks  and  the  joy  of  being  seen  and 
admired  in  them. 


She  liked  people  and  commenced  to  long  to 
see  some  of  her  friends. 

She  laughed  at  Lew's  excuses  when  she  sug- 
gested that  they  "step  out"  a  bit. 

It  was  then  that  they  had  their  first  lovers' 
quarrel. 

When  Lew  took  Lola  down  to  San  Diego  to 
eat  Thanksgiving  dinner  with  his  mother  and 
step-father  and  little  half-sister  and  brother, 
Hollywood  realized  there  was  something  serious 
to  this  romance. 

They  went  down  again  for  Christmas.  But 
both  denied  they  were  engaged.  Lola  said  they 
were  too  young.  That  they  were  thinking  of  a 
career — not  marriage. 

Christmas,  Lew  gave  Lola  a  beautiful  walnut 
cabinet  holding  a  victrola  and  radio. 

Lola  gave  Lew  a  handsome  fitted  traveling 
bag. 

They  continued  to  deny  their  engagement 
when  Lew,  on  Lola's  birthday,  presented  her 
with  a  handsome  diamond  wrist  watch. 

And  then  Lew  was  ordered  to  Sacramento  on 
location. 

He  was  starring  in  "Heaven  on  Earth." 
This  was  their  first  separation. 

•"THERE  were  long  letters!    There  were  tele- 
*■  grams!    There  were  lengthy  telephone  con- 
versations! 
After  Lew  had  been  gone  three  weeks,  Lo'a 


Do  they  look  like  twins— these  cute  youngsters  with  whom  big  George 
Bancroft  is  playing  horsie-back?  They  are  playing  twins  in  his  new 
picture,  "Rich  Man's  Folly,"  but  they  reaUy  aren't.  They  are  really 
Kenneth  Coughlin  and  Marilyn  Joan  Stubblefield.  Suitable  twins  weren't 
to  be  found — and  these  kids  will  certainly  do,  eh? 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


io5 


was  awakened  one  midnight  by  a  long  distance 
telephone  call  from  Sacramento. 

"Is  this  you,  Lolie?  ThisisLew.  Lolie,will 
you  marry  me?  Careers  don't  matter! 
Nothing  matters  if  I  can't  have  you!" 

And  Lola  knew  that  Lew  spoke  the  truth. 

She  laughed  back  at  him,  "I  might  have 
known  that  you  would  ask  me  to  marry  you  on 
the  telephone — when  I  had  dreamed  of  it 
happening  among  moonlight  and  roses." 

With  a  little  catch  in  her  voice,  she  whis- 
pered, "Yes,  I'll  marry  you,  Lew." 

Then  what  plans!    What  happiness! 

AND  now  she  was  packing  her  trunk  to  go  to 
New  York! 

What  had  happened?  Cross  words!  Angry 
words! 

The  exquisite  wrist  watch  set  with  diamonds 
almost  thrown  at  Lew.  Lew  solemnly  taking 
off  the  watch  Lola  had  once  so  lovingly  fas- 
tened on  his  wrist. 

It  was  all  over!  She  would  go  back  to  New 
York! 

Lew  would  never  see  her  again! 

That  night,  heartbroken  Dorothy  Mulligan 
cried  herself  to  sleep  to  be  awakened  at  four 
o'clock  in  the  morning  by  the  persistent  ringing 
of  her  bedside  telephone. 

A  beloved  voice  came  over  the  wire.  "Lolie, 
this  is  Lew.  I  didn't  mean  a  word  I  said. 
Nothing  in  the  world  matters  but  you!  I  must 
see  you!  I  must  talk  to  you!  I  am  coming 
right  over!    Meet  me  out  in  front!" 

As  dawn  was  lighting  up  the  Hollywood 
skies,  Lew  and  Lola  drove  through  the  hills 
trying  to  straighten  out  this  tangled  web  called 
life. 

That  day  Lola  unpacked  her  trunks  and  can- 
celled her  reservations  to  New  York. 

That  night  Lew  drew  up  to  Lola's  front  door 
in  a  long,  low,  shining,  high-powered,  new 
roadster. 

Again  they  drove  through  the  Hollywood 
hills.  This  time  they  were  planning  their 
honeymoon. 

Lew  had  only  two  more  weeks  on  his  picture. 
He  was  tired.  He  had  spent  long  days  in  the 
hot  sun  making  football  scenes  for  "The  Spirit 
of  Notre  Dame."  The  studio  had  given  him  a 
six-weeks  vacation. 

They  would  be  married  as  soon  as  he  was 
through.  They  would  rather  Hollywood 
didn't  know  their  secret  until  they  were  on 
their  way. 

Lew  stole  up  to  the  office  of  his  young  boss, 
Carl  Laemmle,  Jr.,  to  confide  the  great  news. 

"Hooray,"  said  Junior,  in  effect,  "I'll  help 
in  any  way  I  can." 

"The  Spirit  of  Notre  Dame"  was  finally 
finished.  But  Lew  and  Lola  crossed  their 
friends. 

They  had  secretly  planned  a  simple  wedding 
at  Lew's  home  atop  a  high  Hollywood  hill. 
There  the  wedding  would  take  place,  with  the 
writer  and  her  husband  and  two  others  as  the 
witnesses. 

Lew  would  slip  on  the  bride's  finger  the 
beautiful  ring  of  platinum  links  set  with  dia- 
monds— Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ayres  would  step  into 
the  big  family  car  and  slip  away  on  the  wed- 
ding journey. 

That  was  the  plan. 

But  it  wasn't  to  be  that  way. 

["  EW  and  Lola  slipped  away  to  Las  Vegas, 
-*-JNev.,  one  of  Hollywood's  favorite  Gretna 
Greens.  Jack  Gilbert  and  Ina  Claire  had  the 
knot  tied  there,  too,  you  remember.  A  license 
was  issued  to  Lewis  Frederick  Ayer,  of  Minne- 
apolis, and  Dorothy  Mulligan,  of  Des  Moines, 
la. — their  real  names.  Judge  William  Orr  tied 
the  knot — tightly.  Witnesses  were  Leroy 
Mason,  actor,  and  Louise  Graham. 

And  away  they  went  on  the  wedding 
journey. 

So  that's  the  story  of  a  rocky  romance  that 
turned  smooth  in  the  home  stretch.  A  grand 
young  couple — and  plenty  in  love. 

Keep  that  way,  children — we  are  all  pulling 
for  you! 


Chapped  .w'Dry 
Skin  Banished 


H, 


ERE  is  news!  Campana's  Italian 
Balm,  unrivaled  skin  protector  in  winter- 
loving  Canada,  is  now  sold  coast-to-coast 
in  the  United  States. 

If  you  have  ever  been  in  Canada ...  or  if  you 
have  lived  near  the  Canadian  border  .  .  .  you 
already  Know  Italian  Balm  and  its  widespread 
popularity. 

For  more  than  a  quarter  of  a  century,  this 
famous  skin -softener  has  been  a  household 
word  in  the  Dominion.  Its  genuine  goodness 
is  quickly  proved — by  the  speed  with  which  it 
banishes  the  slightest  trace  of  chapping,  red- 
ness, dryness  or  roughness.  Italian  Balm  far 
outsells  all  other  skin  protectors  in  Canada.  It 
is  "King  of  Lotions"  in  a  country  where  winter- 
time skin  protection  is  a  necessity. 

Because  of  its  unrivaled  record  in  "the  land 
of  winter  sports,"  it  was 
brought  to  the  United 
States  ...  to  you.  After  a 
few  winters  here,  in  a  few 
states  only — Italian  Balm 
has  won  another  victory. 
Many  leading  merchants 
tell  us  that  they  hare  never 
seen  American  women 
give  such  quick  and  en- 
thusiastic approval  to  a 
hand  and  face  lotion. 


)       (ampanaS 

Italiaiv  Balm 

THE     ORIGINAL     SKIN      SOFTENER 


GUARANTEE 

Thousands  of  tests  have  proved  that 
Italian  Balm  banishes  the  irritation  and 
redness  of  chapped  skin  more  quickly 
than  any  other  hand  lotion  you  can 
buy.  If  it  fails  to  give  you  better  pro- 
tection, or  to  banish  chapped  skin 
more  quickly,  than  any  lotion  you  have 
ever  used,  your  purchase  money  will 
be  refunded  cheerfully.  Italian  Balm  is 
guaranteed  to  be  a  superior  product. 


16     INGREDIENTS  — SELECTED    BY 
A    WORLD-FAMOUS     SKIN     SPECIALIST 

Not  six,  nor  ten — but  sixteen  ingredients  are 
used  in  Italian  Balm.  These  are  scientifically 
blended  by  an  imported  and  secret  process. 
Italian  Balm  is  not  at  all  like  the  usual  commer- 
cial or  store-made  skin  lotion.  Invention  of  an 
internationally-famous  Italian  dermatologist — 
it  is  made  today  exactly  as  his  original  formula 
prescribed,  including  importations  from 
France,  Persia,  Italy  and  other  foreign  lands. 

Get  a  bottle  of  Italian  Balm  today  at  your  drug 
or  department  store.  It  is  for  sale  in  long-  ^ 
lasting    35c,  60c   and,' 
$1.00  bottles.   Or,/ 

'  ... 


send  in  the  cou-  / 
pon  now.  Try  / ^ J? 
Italian  Balm  / 
at  our  ex-/'.,? 


T^une  in  Saturday  Nights  on  the  "First  Nighter 

Every  Saturday  Night . . .  over  the  N.  B.  C.  coast-to-coast 
network  .  .  .  9:30  Eastern  time;  8:30  Central  time;  7:30 
Mountain  time  and  6:30  Pacific  time.  First  night  perform 


ance  of  plays 


from  the  "Little  Theatre  Off  Times 


Square."  Romance  .  .  .  Mystery  .  .  .  Comedy. 


<f  &  4K&f* 


io6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


KU  RL-fl  S-M 


KURLASH  »  » 

Curls  Lashes  Instantly 

NO  heat,  no  cosmetics!  Just  slip 
your  lashes  between  Kurlash's 
rubber  pads,  press  gently,  and  your 
lashes  &rz  curled  — beautifully!  See 
how  your  eyes  sparkle!  How  much 
larger,  deeper,  darker!  You  display 
greater  charm,  more  personality. 
Even  short  lashes  appear  long.  Get 
this  Hollywood  favorite  today.  At 
beauty  shops,  drug  and  department 
stores,  $1.00. 

Lashpac»»Mascara  Compact 

Stick  mascara  and  imported  brush, 
in  attractive  enameled  compact. 
Used  like  lip-stick — anywhere, 
any  time.  Keeps  lashes  dark, 
alluring.  Handy  purse  size — 
folds  up  like  pen-knife.  Never 
mussy  in  purse  or  in  use.  Mas- 
cara in  black,  blue  or 
brown.  $1.00. 

Kurlene — to  grow  long  lux- 
uriant lashes. 
Shadette  —  intensifies  eyes' 
natural  color. 
d  Ijjl'oj  /         Lashtint— perfumed  waterproof 

ill     it     /  liquid  mascara. 

Twaezette  —  automatic    painless 
tweezer.  Each  $1.00. 

Write  for  booklet  "Fascinating  Eyes  and  How 
To  Hare  Them."  Beauty  secrets  told  in  pic- 
tares.  Mailed  free. 


THE  KUIU.ASH  COITIPflnU 

77  SOUTH   AVE.    -    ROCHESTER  -  N.Y. 


F 

R   E 

E 

t«d      Bo 

ok 

ll.m  '.II-  b 

to 

be: 

ntiful  !<■ 
U  form. 

FORM 
DEVELOPED 

"C*LAT  chested?  Fashion  demands  the 
r  full,  rounded  shapeliness  of  the  wom- 
anly form.  The  stars  of  Hollywood  are 
developing  their  feminine  charm.  You, 
too,  can  quickly  add  extra  fullness  where 
needed.      My   new  method   plumps  out 

the  hollows  and  builds  firm,  vontr.ft.1  tiemie.  Just 
TRY  my  wonderful  NANCY  LEE  MIRACLE 
CREAM  and  special  developing  instructional 

GIVEN  Write  Today 

Send  onlv  $1.00  for  lar*e  jar 
of  NANCY  LEE  MIRACLE  CREAM  and  in- 
ntructione  fin  plain  wrapper)  and  I  will  include 
my  new  FREE  BOOK  on  Figure  Development. 
Take  advantage  of  I  hi,  big  offei — write  AT  ONCEI 

NANCY  LEE    Depi.  X-ll 

816  Broadway,         New  York,  N.  Y. 


The  Best  Showman 
In  Town 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  73  ] 


Something  specially  prepared  for  her  diet. 
Now  Norma  Shearer,  Joan  Crawford  and 
Greta  Garbo  can  order  special  dishes  any  day. 
But  no  chef  at  Metro  would  dare  make  one  up 
in  advance.  In  the  first  place,  they'd  never 
think  of  it.  They  couldn't  help  but  think  of 
Lupe.  She  took  care  of  that  with  the  chefs 
exactly  as  she  took  care  of  it  with  the  directors. 

Some  people  say  Lupe  is  not  a  lady. 

"What  the  hell?  How  can  they  tell?  To 
act  like  everyone  else — is  that  what  they  call 
a  lady?    Then  I  am  not  a  lady!" 

However,  sometimes  she  puts  on  her  lady- 
act  in  a  grand  manner. 

For  example,  she  is  very  busy  taking  her 
mother  to  the  Ascot  races  right  now.  Almost 
every  evening.  There  are  big  crowds  at  those 
races.  Her  mother  screams  with  excitement! 
Lupe  claps  her  hand  over  her  mother's  mouth. 
"Mothah,  deah!  Please  do  not  scream  like 
that.  I  am  a  lady!"  And  the  entire  crowd 
forgets  to  look  at  the  races.  They  are  too 
busy  watching  Lupe  be  a  lady. 

TOURING  her  recent  visit  in  New  York,  Lupe 
-'—'got  a  huge  thrill  from  ragging  Peggy  Hop- 
kins Joyce.  It  took  Lupe  only  a  few  seconds  to 
decide  that  the  famous  Miss  Joyce  did  not 
have  a  keen  sense  of  humor.  "Now  watch 
me!"  she  told  Jimmy  Walker  and  other  mem- 
bers of  the  group  with  whom  she  was  seeing 
the  sights. 

They  passed  over  a  bridge.  A  mighty 
yacht  was  cruising  down  the  river.  "See  that 
yacht!"  Lupe  screeched,  above  the  traffic,  at 
Peggy.    "That  ees  mine!" 

"Is  it?"  Miss  Joyce  looked  at  her  with 
double  interest. 

They  passed  a  park  far  out  in  the  country. 
"See  that  park?  I  owned  that  once.  But  it 
was  too  expensive  to  keep  up  so  I  give  it  to 
the  county." 

"Did  you?"  Miss  Joyce  looked  at  her  with 
triple  interest. 

"Peggee!"  Lupe  screeched  with  horror. 
"You  are  chewing  gum.  I  am  a  lady.  You 
must  not  chew  gum  with  me.     Spit  it  out." 

Miss  Joyce  spit  it  out. 

All  an  act,  but  an  act  as  natural,  to  Lupe,  as 
nature's  rains  or  droughts  or  river-currents. 

She  holds  the  floor  in  any  group  through 
sheer  force  of  vitality.  One  never  talks,  him- 
self, when  Lupe  is  present.    He  doesn't  want  to. 

An  extremely  brilliant  and  poised  and  beau- 
tiful actress  who  is  conversationally  equal  to 
diplomats,  bank  presidents,  international  wits, 
said  to  me  recently  following  an  evening  she 
had  spent  with  Lupe:  "I  have  never  met  any- 
one who  could  make  me  feel  so  futile.  I  just 
don't  know  I  exist  when  she  is  around  me.  I 
am,  can  be,  nothing  but  an  audience  to  her. 
And  when  she  goes,  although  I  have  not  said  a 
word,  I  am  utterly  exhausted." 

Nothing  but  an  audience!  A  remarkable 
tribute  to  the  real  showmanship  of  Lupe. 

"VOU  have  read  of  the  incident  with  Lilyan 
-*-  Tashman  at  the  Embassy  Club  when  the 
wearing  of  long  kid  gloves  first  returned  to 
vogue.  Lilyan  entered,  wearing  them.  Lupe 
had  none.  She  wrapped  two  napkins  around 
her  arms.  "Must  be  in  style,"  she  said  loudly. 
Lilyan  was  at  the  next  table.  She  handed  her 
gloves  to  Lupe.     Hot  words  followed. 

That  is  the  story  you  have  read.  It  is  true 
in  the  fact;  it  is  not  true  in  the  motive.  No 
one  seemed  to  notice  that  Dolores  Del  Rio 
entered  at  almost  the  same  time  as  Lilyan — 
also  wearing  kid  gloves.  Lupe  makes  no 
secret  of  her  dislike  for  Dolores.  A  rivalry  as 
natural  as  the  rest  of  Lupe's  rampant  emotions. 

Lupe  used  the  napkin  gag  to  annoy  Dolores. 
Lilyan  accepted   the  challenge.     Lupe  could 


Need 

Extra 

Money? 


pHOTOPLAYnow 
■*■  offers  its  readers 
the  opportunity  to 
convert  their  spare 
time  into  real  money 
by  becoming  its  sub- 
scription representa- 
tives in  the  town  or 
community  in  which 
they  live. 

((You,  as  a  reader  of 
Photoplay,  will  be  quick 
to  realize  the  money-mak' 
ing  possibilities  this  offer 
affords  you. 

((Your  friends — your 
neighbors — in  fact,  all  the 
homes  in  your  community 
— are  prospective  sub' 
scribers  for  Photoplay. 
Who,  today,  is  not  inter- 
ested in  moving  pictures 
— the  chief  recreation  of 
the  American  public? 

((Be  the  first  in  your  com- 
munity  to  take  advantage 
of  this  offer,  and  get  started 
at  once.  The  coupon  or  a 
post  card  will  bring  fur- 
ther  details. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 
Dept.  RE-11-31 
919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

I  am  interested  in  your  money-making 
offer  to  your  readers.  Send  me  the  details 
at  once. 


?^ame. 


Address . 
City.  .  . 


.  State . 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


107 


have  straightened  the  mistake  in  a  moment. 
"Why  spoil  a  good  show?"  thought  the  show- 
man who  had  unwittingly  cornered  the  spot- 
light for  the  evening. 

I  could  go  on  forever  about  her  pranks  and 
her  antics.  Some  day,  I  am  going  to  write  a 
book  about  her.  She  furnishes  fresh  material 
twenty-four  hours  in  the  day.  Yes,  even  when 
she  is  sleeping.  For  she  sleeps  in  a  bed  like  no 
one  else's.  A  bed  much  wider  than  it  is  long; 
a  bed  less  than  a  foot  from  the  floor. 

I  don't  believe  she's  awakened  in  the  same 
mood  twice  in  her  life.  She  may  throw  a  shoe 
at  you;  she  may  tell  you  you  are  the  most 
adorable  person  living.  But  she'll  tell  it  in  as 
many  different  ways  as  there  are  mornings  for 
her  to  awaken. 

But  I  couldn't  complete  even  a  short  article 
upon  Lupe  without  saying  something  of  her 
truthfulness,  her  loyalty,  her  kindness  to 
those  whom  she  loves. 

She  loved  Gary  Cooper.  With  all  of  the  de- 
votion of  her  exaggerated  nature.  I  have  seen 
her  beat  him  with  her  shoe  one  moment  and 
sob  because  she  has  done  it,  the  next;  I  have 
heard  her  rail  at  him  in  anger  so  terrible  that 
I  feared  his  life  was  in  danger.  But  if  another 
person  said  an  unkind  word  about  Gary  I 
have  known  that  his  or  her  life  was  in  danger. 

WHAT  happened?  One  day  Lupe  wanted 
to  get  married;  the  next  day  she  didn't. 
She  was  afraid  of  her  career.  But  more  than 
that  she  was  afraid  of  her  freedom;  her  show- 
manship nature.  "A  husband  might  try  to  stop 
me.  If  he  did  I  would  kill  him.  I  am  afraid," 
she  once  told  me.  Afraid  of  herself  because  of 
herself. 

Some  days  Gary  wanted  to  marry;  some  days 
he  didn't.  To  be  married  to  Lupe — ah,  it  is  a 
grave  responsibility. 

This  continued  for  nearly  three  years  and 
then — he  saw  her  off  on  the  train  when  she 
left  for  her  vaudeville  engagement.  She  was 
crying.    "Why,  don't  cry,  dear — "  he  told  her. 

"I  am  crying  because  I  will  never  see  you 
again.  I  am  through.  And  when  I  am  through, 
I  am  through.  This  could  not  go  on  forever — " 

"No,  no,  Becca  (their  pet  name  for  each 
other).    When  you  come  back — " 

"I  will  not  see  you.    It  is  better  so!" 

And  she  meant  it.  She  has  brains,  our 
Lupe.  She  knew  it  must  coroe — she  speeded 
the  inevitable  day.  Brains!  A  keen  insight 
into  her  own  and  others'  natures. 

"But  if  he  ever  need  me,"  she  tells  me,  "if 
he  ever  get  poor  and  have  no  work,  I  sell 
everything  I  have,  I  scrub  floors  if  necessary 
to  help  him.     But  I  never  see  him!" 

An  act?  Certainly.  As  everything  she 
says  or  does  is  an  act.  A  scene  from  life!  A 
true  scene.  She  would  do  that  exactly  as  she 
does  everything  else — from  the  depths  of  a 
volatile,  hurricane-like  but  compassionate  and 
loyal  nature.  "  A  nature  which  has  probably 
never  had  a  duplicate.  At  least,  in  Holly- 
wood, the  home  of  eruptive  natures,  it  has  no 
competition  on  record. 


TO   OUR  CANADIAN 
READERS 

Photoplay  wants  you  to  know 
that  your  subscription  will  be  com- 
pleted without  additional  tariff  charge 
or  any  reduction  in  the  number  of 
months  it  has  to  run. 

We  are  giving  you  this  information 
as  you  may  be  wondering  what  effect 
the  new  Canadian  tariff,  on  United 
States  publications,  will  have  on  your 
subscription. 

The  Canadian  Government  has 
been  very  generous  regarding  sub- 
scriptions placed  before  June  2, 1931, 
and  we  are  very  glad  to  be  able  to 
pass  this  information  on  to  you. 


Madame  Ncrine,  Famous 
/   Beautician  ^ Stage  Stars 
Teih  How  to  Loo!<\eai  sYounger 


New  Skin  Beauty 
Immediately 

For  Lines,  Crowsfeet,  Wrinkles 
For  Flabby  Skin,  Heavy  Chin  Line 
For  "Crepy"  Lines  on  Neck,  Sagging 
For  Faded  Skin,  Excessive  Dryness 
or  Oiliness,  Pimples,  Blackheads, 
Redness,  Roughness,  Try  This 
Amazing  Method. 


Look    Young   by 

Youthful    Parts. 

ger  and  Lovelier 


See  Instantaneous  New  Beauty 

Look  Years  Younger 

Send  No  Money.  Read  FREE  Of  fer 


Older   Actresses,    When    Made   to 
This   Amazing   Method,   Can   Play 
You,   Too,  Can   Look   Years   Youn 
This  Quick   Way. 


Haven't  you  wondered  why  certain  older 
actresses  can  still  play  youthful  parts? 

Many  whom  you  know  to  be  SO  years  old 
look  like  30.  Some  of  60  look  like  40.  Not  a 
line  or  flaw  in  their  wonderful  skins! 

These  stars  are  subjected  to  strains,  late  hours, 
drying  desert  suns  "on  location,"  and  the  de- 
structive effects  of  harsh  grease  paints.  Their 
skins  would  look  old  and  blemished  very  quickly 
if  they  used  ordinary  beauty  methods. 

But  I  keep  older  stage  and  screen  stars  young  look- 
ing with  certain  secret  imported  youthifiers  and  beauti- 
fiers  not  found  in  the  usual  preparations  used  by  the 
general  public. 

Among  the  younger  movie  favorites  who  also  praise 
my  preparations  are  Dorothy  Mackaill,  Pauline 
Starke,  Betty  Compson,  Estelle  Taylor,  Lila  Lee, 
Marie  Prevost  and  many  others  whose  unlined,  flaw- 
less, girlish  skins  are  so  admired. 

Three  Wonderful  Beauty  Secrets 

I  have  supplied  professional  clients  with  these  re- 
markable preparations  for  40  years.  My  family  have 
been  beauticians  for  generations  and  among  our  prized 
possessions  are  three  wonderful  secrets  learned  years 
ago  and  handed  down  in  the  family.  These  3  prepara- 
tions represent  a  complete  beauty-youth  treatment. 

Now  I  have  decided  that  these  preparations  are  too 
wonderful  to  be  confined  to  leading  actresses,  screen 
stars  and  fashionable  women  who  continually  send 
from  afar  for  these  3  preparations  which  I  alone  know- 
how  to  make. 

I  want  every  one  to  have  them.  So  I  am  willing 
for  you  to  test  their  wondrous  results  on  trial.  Send 
no  money — just  mail  coupon  today. 


treatment  that  makes  you  look  years  younger  and 
lovelier  so  quickly. 

When  the  postman  brings  the  package,  deposit  with 
him  only  $1.98  (plus  a  few  cents  postage).  I  ask 
this  to  keep  children  from  sending.  This  money  is  to 
be  returned  on  request. 

Use  treatment  10  days  on  trial.  You  must  be 
thrilled  with  the  banishment  of  lines.  With  new 
youthful  looks  and  beauty.  You  must  be  convinced 
that  the  quick  results  of  my  simple  treatment  are 
better  than  a  long  course  of  beauty  parlor  treatments. 
You  must  be  convinced  that  the  3  preparations  which 
make  up  this  treatment  are  better  than  many  for 
which  you  have  paid  $10  to  $15. 

Otherwise,  within  10  days  you  are  to  return  what 
is  left.  I'll  instantly  return  the  money  you- deposited 
with  the  postman  and  make  you  a  present  of  the 
quantity  used. 

If  you  do  keep  these  three  preparations,  ihere  is  no 
more  to  pay.  I  am  thinking  of  charging  fS  for  them 
later,  but  to  introduce  them,  I  have  set  the  price  at 
only  $1.9S   for  all  3. 

Your  purchase  also  entitles  you  to  personal  advice 
from  me  on  any  beauty  subjects. 

Be  Sure  to  Mail  Coupon  Today 

But  you  must  send  quickly.  It  is  so  hard  to  get 
these  imported  ingredients  that  I  can  make  up  only  a 
limited  quantity  at  a  time  outside  of  the  amount 
necessary  for  my  pres- 
ent customers.  So  I 
may  have  to  delay 
those  who  send  late. 
Best  to  mail  coupon 
today. 


10   money — jubu  uidii  coupon   touay.  ^*.  ^^^ 

Look  Years  Younger  and  Lovelier      '"""■ .7l*to*u- 


FREE 


Personal  Advice  on 
Beauty  Subjects 


See  those  erasable  age-lines  and  crowsfeet  smooth 
out  like  magic.  Flabby  skin  becomes  firm.  Faded 
skin  becomes  youthful.  Large  pores  reduce.  Pimples, 
blackheads  due  to  clogged  pores  vanish. 

Excessive  oiliness  or  dryness  ends.  You  gain  the 
soft,  clear,  smooth,  creamy  white  skin  of  youncer 
years.  You  don't  have  to  wait  for  results — new  skin 
beauty   right    away. 

The  most  elaborate  beauty  treatments — carried  on 
for  months — may  not  youthify  and  beautify  your  skin 
as  these  three  remarkable  preparations  of  mine  will 
so  quickly.  There  is  nothing  else  in  the  world  like 
them.  The  secret  has  never  left  our  family  in  spite 
of  wonderful  offers  from  great  cosmetic  manufacturers. 

Try  It  Now.     Send  No  Money 

Mail  the  coupon  today.  Send  no  money.  I  will 
immediately  send  you  these  three  preparations — a  full 
sized    jar    of    each — which    represents    the    complete 


MADAME  NORINE,  Suite   110. 
650  Turner  Ave.,  N.  W.,  Grand   Rapids,   Mich. 

I    Madame   Norine.   Suite   110.  650  Turner.   N.   W. 
J    Grand   Rapids.    Mich. 

Without  any  money  In  adrance  send  me  the  three 

I  rations   thai    ;ito   responaUde   tor    the   youthful 

looks  of  so  many  older  sumc  stars.  I  will  nay  the 
I  postman  the  special  Introductory  nricv  of  only  S1.9S 
J  (phis  n  few  cents  postage)  on  arrlfal.  If  tor  3iiy 
|  reason  whatever  I  return  wturt  is  left  in  the  3  Jars. 
uiftun  In  days,  you  as-me  to  return  my  money  In- 
stantly, without  question.  I  am  to  he  sole  j 
this  matter.    It  I  keep  them,  there  is  no  more  to  pay. 


I 
I 
|   Name..  . 

'   Address. 


j  City State. 


o8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


an  Eyelash  Make-up 
that  Actually  Makes 

LASHES 
GROW 


r 


IT'S  TRUE  —  true  and 
proven.  A  mascara 
which  gives  lashes  a  Double  Treatment 
—  that  is  the  new  discovery. 

It's  called  the  new  Liquid  Winx. 
First  you  use  it  as  a  waterproof  mascara. 
It  darkens  lashes,  makes  them  look  soft, 
delicate  and  fascinating.  Eyes  take 
on  new  sparkle,  new  appeal.  Yet  the 
effect  is  natural — in  good  taste. 

And  (while  you  use  Winx  as  a  mas- 
cara) it  actually  promotes  the  health 
and  growth  of  lashes.  Winx  contains 
stimulating  oils  which  turn  skimpy, 
straggly  lashes  into  a  long,  curly,  be- 
witching fringe.  A  week's  use  actually 
shows  definite  improvements! 

You  may  try  the  new  Liquid  Winx — 
simply  by  sending  1 00  for  a  Vanity  Size 
— enough  for  a  month's  use. 


ROSS  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-2 

243  West  17th  Street,  New  York 
I  enclose  10^  for  Liquid  Winx,  Vanity  Size. 


Black. 


.Brown 


Name 

Address^ 


66 


Tint 
GRAY 


IIAIIt 


99 


Bring  back  to  unsightly  gray, 
faded    or    bleached    hair   its 
natural  color  and  beauty.   In- 
stantly,   easily    impart    any 
shade  (rom  lightest  blond  to 
deepest  black.  Just  comb  thru 
safe,  sure  Brownatone.     Used 
by  thousands  for  over  20  years. 
Satisfaction   guaranteed.     Ab 
solutely     harmless     to     hair, 
alp  or  skin.    At  all  dealers.  50e. 
Or  send  10c  for  trial  bottle. 
Kenton  Pharmacal  Co.,  Depl.  F-16,  Brownatone  Blrjg.,  Covington,  Ky 


B 


i  Addr, 


Windtor,  On, 


ROWNATONE 

TINTS  GRAY  HAIR  ANY  SHADE 


EARN   MONEY   IN   SPARE  TIME 


You  can't  help  making  money  selling  GOLD  LABEL  CHIL- 
DREN'S DRESSES  to  friends  and  neighbors  Millions  sold. 
Irresistible  Style3,  finest  materials,  largely  hand-work, 
temptingly  priced.  Show  them  and  you  sell  them.  Thousands 
make  big  money.  You  can,  too.  No  experience  necessary. 
Write  for  particulars. YOUNG-AMERICA  APPAREL  CO. 
50»  Fifth  Ave.,  Dept.  B,  New  York 


Short  Subjects 
of  the  Month 


Anything  for  a  laugh — and  Tom  Patricola  comes  up  sing- 
ing.    Good  comedies  like  "The  Tamale  Vendor,"  reviewed 
below,  will  cure  your  blues 


THE  TAMALE  VENDOR 

Edncalional-Ideal 

Just  enough  story  to  provide  a  background 
for  Tom  Patricola's  bag  of  tricks,  his  nimble 
dancing,  pleasing  singing  and  strumming  ac- 
companiment. Some  laughs,  a  couple  of 
pretty  girls,  and  a  hilarious  gag  situation  at 
the  finish. 

THE  TURN  OF  THE  TIDE 
RKO-Van  Beuren 

Another  one  of  Floyd  Gibbons'  fascinating 
"supreme  thrills."  Scenes  of  the  dramatic 
episodes  of  the.  morning  of  July  18,  1918, 
when  the  Allies  delivered  the  decisive  blow 
of  the  war,  with  Gibbons  recounting  the  thrill- 
ing story  in  his  own  breathless  fashion.  It's 
educational  and  entertaining,  too. 

DREAMWORLD 

Educational 

Claude  Flemming  takes  you  on  a  tour  of 
picturesque  and  interesting  points  not  far  from 
Hollywood.  Photographed  in  Multicolor,  the 
outdoor  scenes  are  particularly  lovely.  A 
pleasant  version  of  the  travelogue  film. 

OLYMPIC  CHAMPIONS 
M-G-M 

A  perfectly  swell  short  for  sportsmen  as  well 
as  other  people,  showing  the  stars  who  will 
participate  in  the  coming  Olympic  events. 
With  amusing  dialogue  written  and  spoken  by 
Pete  Smith,  it  also  recounts  a  little  of  the 
history  of  various  athletic  achievements. 

THE  FRESHMAN'S  FINISH 

Educational-Vanity 

Another  of  those  capering  college  comedies. 
Outboard  motor  races  seem  to  be  the  screen 
fad  of  the  moment.    The  hero  wins  in  a  bath- 
tub and  the  villain  is  shown  up  as  a  cad  and 
|  bounder. 


WEDGE  PLA  Y 

Tijfany 

This  is  the  second  of  those  interesting  and 
instructive  sports  shorts  on  football.  The 
wedge  play  that  enabled  the  Georgia  team  to 
make  the  thrilling  touchdown  after  the  kick-off 
against  Yale  last  year  is  featured.  Great 
stuff. 

KICKING  GAME 

Tiffany 

Number  three  in  the  football  shorts  that  are 
so  colorfully  showing  audiences  the  best  foot- 
ball talent  in  the  country.  Howard  Jones  in- 
troduces The  University  of  Michigan  team 
with  Coach  Harry  Kepke  giving  pointers  on 
kicking.  Coach  Wallace  Wade  and  his  eleven, 
Bill  Ingram  of  California,  and  Lou  Little  of 
Columbia  contribute  also. 

POKER  WIDOWS 

Educational-Sennett 

Husbands  who  play  poker  will  find  out  in 
this  funny  comedy  what  happens  to  their 
wives.  A  jealous  husband,  a  bored  wife,  and  a 
philandering  dancing  master  get  badly  tri- 
angled. 

THE  WORLD  FLIER 

Educational-Sennett 

The  comedy  element  is  pretty  strained,  but 
there  is  a  good  outboard  motorboat  race. 
Loretta  Turnbull  and  Harold  Ferguson,  the 
world's  speedboat  champions,  are  featured 
along  with  the  Sennett  cast.    Natural  color. 

VAGABOND  MELODIES 
Educalional-Lyman  H.  Howe 

Colorful  scenes  of  the  strolling  city  minstrels 
to  be  found  on  New  York  streets.  There's  a 
hurdy-gurdy  a  musical  merry-go-round,  some 
Arabian  players,  and  a  German  street  band 
that  is  completely  out  of  tune,  as  usual. 
Cleverly  photographed. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


109 


The   Audience   Speaks   Its    Mind 


Mildred  in  Wonderland 

As  I  am  a  working  girl  having  to  wear  the 
modest  garb  that  the  average  working  girl's 
salary  necessitates,  coming  in  contact  with 
people  who  wear  business  clothes,  some  of 
which  aren't  any  too  neat,  do  you  wonder  at 
my  jumping  at  every  chance  I  have  to  go  to  a 
movie? 

There  I  can  see  charming  people  in  gorgeous 
clothes  and  hear  interesting  conversation.    It 
makes  me  think  life  is  lovely.     And  of  them 
all,  I  had  rather  see  Constance  Bennett. 
Mildred  LEWIS, 
Kennesaw,  Ga. 

Casts  at  Conclusion? 

When  I  go  to  a  picture  I  enjoy  knowing 
who's  who  in  it.  The  fad  now,  it  seems,  is  to 
stage  an  actor  memory  contest,  for  the  list 
of  players  is  given  without  the  name  of  the 
characters  they  are  portraying.  The  star  of 
the  picture  may  be  good,  but  ofttimes  his 
supporting  cast  is  better.  I,  for  one,  am  in 
favor  of  giving  them  better  recognition.  They 
are  the  drawing  card  for  many  a  picture  I 
attend. 

I  am  in  a  quandary  as  to  how  I  am  to  learn 
the  names  of  the  new  ones  who  appear  in  the 
casts.  An  excellent  idea,  I  think,  is  that 
method,  used  in  "The  Front  Page"  and  other 
recent  pictures,  of  showing  at  the  conclusion 
of  a  picture  the  character  and  his  name. 
C.  D.  Price, 
Raleigh,  N.  C. 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  95 


Real-Life  Drama! 

To  the  talkie,  "Outward  Round,"  I  attribute 
the  fact  that  I  am  still  dwelling  upon  this 
earth! 

I  had  been  finding  the  world  pretty  hard  to 
combat.  I  had  lost  my  job;  the  girl  that  I 
loved  married  someone  else;  life  seemed  not 
worth  the  living.  I  was  on  the  verge  of  com- 
mitting suicide  when  by  chance  I  happened  to 
see  "Outward  Bound." 

I  felt  that  I,  too,  was  on  that  mysterious 
ship  as  one  who  had  committed  suicide — and, 
oh,  how  terrible  I  felt  about  it!  And  was  I 
glad  to  get  off  and  take  another  chance  at  life! 

I  am  happy  to  report  that  I  am  finding 
living  isn't  half  so  bad! 

R.  M., 
Casper,  Wyoming 

Orchids  for  Landi 

Here's  a  big  bouquet  of  orchids  for  Elissa 
Landi.  She's  superb!  All  my  old  favorites 
have  faded  into  the  background.  And  her 
smile — I  found  myself  looking  and  waiting  for 
it  throughout  the  picture. 

Don't  put  her  in  a  class  with  Garbo  or 
Dietrich — let  her  be  herself. 

Dorene  Preston, 
San  Francisco,  Calif. 

"Son  of  India" 

After  seeing  Ramon  Novarro  and  Madge 
Evans  in  "  Son  of  India,"  I  cannot  refrain  from 
commenting  upon  it.    To  me  it  was  one  of  the 


Ocoring  an  extra  point 
in  smoking  pleasure 

It's  the  extra  point  that  wins  football  games — and 
it's  the  extra  smoking  pleasure  that  wins  friends  for 
Beech-Nut  Gum.  Try  chewing  a  stick  of  Beech-Nut 
before  you  light  up  the  next  smoke.  Cool, refreshing, 
flavorful,  it  quickens  your  taste  sense,  makes  every 
smoke  taste  like  the  first  one  of  the  day — adds  to 
your  smoking  pleasure.  Remember,  always,  there  is 
no  other  gum  so  good  as  Beech-Nut. 

Made  by  the  Beech -Nut  Packing  Co.,  also 
makers  of  Beech-Nut  Fruit  Drops  and  Mints. 


sweetest  roles  Novarro  has  ever  done.     The 
picture  was  delightfully  refreshing  after  seeing 
so  much  of  this  so-called  "modern"  stuff. 
Fannie  Mae  Geisler, 

Indianapolis,  Ind. 

I  have  just  seen  Ramon  Novarro  is  "  Son  of 
India,"  and  though  I  admire  this  star  tre- 
mendously, I  feel  that,  through  miscasting,  he 
is  losing  some  of  the  magnificence  and  nobility 
which  he  brought  to  former  pictures. 

Although  he  has  been  successful  in  other 
glamorous  roles,  the  hackneyed  plot  and  senti- 
mental palaver  of  his  most  recent  showing  is 
enough  to  embarass  the  staunchest  Novarro 
fans. 

Oi.ca  Daste, 
New  Orleans,  La. 

Those  Retiring  Stars 

Three  cheers  for  the  movie  stars  who  know 
when  and  how  to  retire.  It's  too  bad  that  some 
of  them  hang  on  and  on,  trying  to  make  the 
public  keep  on  liking  them.  It's  as  fatal  to 
their  popularity  as  for  a  woman  to  keep  pour- 
ing out  affection  on  a  man  whose  heart  she  has 
already  lost. 

How  much  wiser  are  the  stars  who  retire 
gracefully  while  still  popular,  leaving  us  pleas- 
ant memories  of  them  at  their  best.  We  hate 
to  lose  them,  but  we  know  we  can't  keep  them 
forever.  It's  rather  sad,  but  life  has  a  habit  of 
moving  on,  and  even  movie  luminaries  must 
move  with  it. 

Louise  Fleming. 
Michigan  City.  Ind. 


Peppermint, 
Wintergreen  and 
Spearmint  Flavors 


Beech-Nut  Gum 

MAKES    THE    NEXT    SMOKE    TASTE    BETTER 


I  IO 


m 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 

Screen    Memories    r  rom    Photoplay 


15  Years  Ago 


W! 


NEW  KIND   OF 
SOFT  BEAUTY 

Scientists  say  that  the  skin  contains  about  28 
miles  of  pores  and  ducts.  That  explains  how 
Dr.  Charles  Flesh  Food  is  bringing  a  new 
kind  of  soft-skin  beauty  to  so  many  women. 
Almost  as  soon  as  applied,  this  remarkable 
cream  is  absorbed  by  the  pores;  thus  it  gets  at 
the  entire  skin — the  lower  tissues  as  well  as 
the  upper — lubricating  them  and  giving  them 
a  pliant  softness  which  is  different  from  any- 
thing else.  As  a  night  cream  it  imparts  a 
translucent  beauty  and  tones  down  wrinkles. 
On  chapped  hands  or  other  rough  surfaces 
it  works  seeming  miracles.  Every  woman 
should  take  advantage  of  it.  50c  and  jl  the  jar. 

Dk  Charles 

FLESH  FOOD 

I,1  li  I.1  I.1     For  free  sample  jar  send  this  coupon  to 

r    [I  Vi  Tj     Dr.  Charles  Flesh  Food  Co.,  Dept.  P-K. 

220.36th    Street,    Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


D  A  DVs,eeP5in 

DAD!  SAFETY 


^^  In  car,  carriage  or  crib,  give  baby  Snug- 

Prize  Contest  a\e  Rug  protection.  Accept  no  substitute. 

Ask  your  dealer  Look  forthe  genuine  Snuggle  Ruglabel. 

or  write  for  de-  Satisfactionguaranteed.Pricedaslowas 

tails  of  the  Baby  $3.00. Atleadingdepartmentandinfant'a 

Contest.  55   cash  wearstores. Writeforinterestingfolder. 

prizes  for  photos.  Snaggle  Rug  Co.  1133  N.7th  St.  Goshen,  Ind. 

SNUGGLE    RUG 


Save  60 


1/  of  the  money  you 
O  usually  spend  on 
Christmas  presents 
Lucretia  Vanderbilt 
$2.50  DOUBLE 

COM  PACT 

*~1  SIX 

I     FOR  $S.SO 

The  same  famoua  beautiful,  blue  lac* 
Cjuer,  silvered  compact  in  blue  leather 
case  sold  by  smart  stores.  Contains 
double  mirror.  Lucretia  Vanderbilt 
perfume-scented  Face  Powder  (Nat- 
ural. Rachel  or  White)  and  Rouge 
(Light.  Medium  or  Dark).  The  op- 
portunity of  a  lifetime  at  this  price. 
Order  at  once. 

CROVILLE  SALES  CO.,501  5th  AV..N.Y.C.   Dept.  J 
Please  send  nje___cotnpects.      Enclosed  is  % 


Powdi 

Name 

Address. 


Color- 


Rouge  Color— 


Are  Too  Aiwa,.  Excited  ?  Fatigued  ?  Worried  ? 
Gloomy?  Pessimistic?  Constipation,  indigestion,  cold 
sweats,  diny  spells  and  bash fulness  are  caused  by  NERVE 
EXHAUSTION.  Drue;  Ionics  and  medicines  cannot  hrlp  utak.  rick 
nertes/     Learn    how    to    retain    Visor.     Calmness    and    Self    Confidence. 

Send  25c  lor  this  amazing  book. 
RICHARD  BLACKSTONC,  N  2211   Flatlron   Bids,..  NEW  YORK 


Marie 
Dressier 


E  got  all  hot  and 
bothered  editorially 
about  the  art  of  the  cinema 
and  smugly  announced 
that  the  motion  pictures 
were  in  the  midst  of  their 
"greatest  crisis."  Nowa- 
days we're  for  good  enter- 
tainment without  the  art 
and  the  crises. 

We  were  also  pretty 
angry  at  the  salaries  paid  some  of  the  stars. 
We  thought  it  ridiculous  that  a  certain  come- 
dian drew  down  $1,000.  Suppose  somebody 
had  told  us  then  that  one  day  we'd  print  Connie 
Bennett's  weekly  stipend  of  $30,000! 

An  interviewer  reported  that  Raymond 
Hatton's  Nipponese  make-up  in  "Kayosho" 
was  so  good  that  Sessue  Hayakawa  talked 
Japanese  to  Ray. 

There  was  a  story  about  Gladys  Hulette  and 
a  ravishing  portrait  of  Pearl  White  reading 
Photoplay. 

Julian  Johnston  waxed  eloquent  over  a  movie 
called   "Jaffery,"   a   thrilling  film  without  a 


murder,  cliff,  railway  collision,  fight,  motor 
chase,  or  any  divorce-court  material.  Mae 
Marsh  got  a  cheer  for  her  work  in  Anita  Loos' 
story,  "The  Little  Liar." 

"The  Reward  of  Patience"  was  notable  for 
the  return  of  "Lottie  Pickford's  passionate, 
dark  beauty  to  screens  which  have  long  been 
pale  for  lack  of  it."  Oh,  Mr.  Johnston !  In  the 
same  picture  a  lad  named  Adolphe  Menjou  had 
a  small  part. 

Dorothy  Kelly  was  the  girl  on  the  cover  and 
the  gallery  section  included  Fanny  Ward, 
Eddie  Lyons,  Eugene  O'Brien,  Grace  Valen- 
tine, Helene  Rosson,  DeWolf  Hopper,  Dorothy 
Dalton  and  Clara  Kimball  Young. 

Cal  York  items:  Reports  that  Douglas  Fair- 
banks has  signed  for  another  year  with  Fine 
Arts  at  a  salary  of  $3,000  a  week  have  been 
denied.  .  .  .  Theda  Bara  mourned  the  death 
of  her  Russian  wolfhound,  Czar  Nicholas.  .  .  . 
Blanche  Sweet  has  a  new  director,  Marshall 
Neilan.  .  .  .  Anna  Little  and  Allan  Forrest 
were  married.  .  .  .  Marie  Dressier  is  about  to 
make  another  "  Tillie"  story.  .  .  .  Mary  Miles 
Minter's  age  is  fourteen  years  and  six  months. 


jo  Years  Ago 


George 
Arliss 


"CROM  beneath  the  brim 
*•  of  an  enormous  hat, 
Gloria  Swanson  said,  "If 
my  little  baby  wants  to  be 
an  actress  when  she  is 
older,  I  won't  try  to  stop 
her."  And  there  was  a 
picture  of  Gloria  wheeling 
the  baby  buggy!  And  a 
charming  picture  it  was. 
Now  you  can't  get  Gloria 
to  mention  her  children  for  publication. 

We  ran  a  grand  story  about  Douglas  Fair- 
banks, written  by  his  valet.  In  spite  of  the 
fact  that  Mary  was  Doug's  loving  wife  the 
man-servant  said,  "If  I  should  leave  Mr. 
Fairbanks  for  a  day,  I  shudder  to  think  what 
would  become  of  him.  About  clothes  and 
small  details  he  is  helpless  as  a  child." 

After  seeing  Griffith's  "Orphans  of  the 
Storm"  with  Lillian  and  Dorothy  Gish,  the 
critics  called  Joseph  Schildkraut  "the  future 
great  actor,"  so  we  used  a  big  story  about  him 
and  the  interviewer  plaintively  hoped  that  Joe 
wouldn't  be  spoiled.    0  tempora.    O  mores! 


What's  this?  Yessir,  ten  years  ago  we 
listed  "Disraeli"  with  George  Arliss  as  one  of 
the  best  films.  (The  talking  version  of  the 
same  picture  won  the  Photoplay  Gold  Medal 
last  year.)  Fairbanks'  "Three  Musketeers" 
made  the  grade  in  a  big  way  and  we  were  en- 
thusiastic about  Constance  Talmadge  in 
"Wedding  Bells"  and  Betty  Compson  in  "At 
the  End  of  the  World." 

Marion  Davies  graced  our  cover  and  the 
gallery  pictures  were  Mae  Murray,  Mary  Carr, 
Jane  and  Katherine  Lee,  Dorothy  Gish,  Anita 
Stewart,  Vivian  Martin  and  Marie  Prevost. 

Cal  York  items:  Rudolph  Valentino  and 
Agnes  Ayres  are  at  work  on  ,"The  Sheik"  .  .  . 
Charlie  Chaplin  is  off  for  a  visit  to  his  home  in 
England.  .  .  .  Bebe  Daniels  and  Jack  Dempsey 
deny  their  engagement  and  Bebe  says  she 
doesn't  ever  intend  to  get  married.  (Remem- 
ber Ben  and  Baby  Barbara?)  .  .  .  Lou  Telle- 
gen  is  suing  Geraldine  Farrar  for  a  divorce. 
.  .  .  Jackie  Coogan  is  the  only[six-year-old  kid 
in  the  world  to  own  a  car.  .  .  .  Reports  of  a 
separation  between  Gloria  Swanson  and 
Herbert  Sombom. 


Renee 
Adoree 


.VII 

■l        "V\7E  just  made  this  issue 
ESbgMJ  V*  with  the  news-  that 

Mabel  Normand  and  Lew 
^U         T  .^*  Cody  were  married! 

We  are  still  mourning 
Rudolph  Valentino,  and 
in  a  story  entitled  "The 
Price  They  Pay  for  Star- 
dom" we  pointed  out  that 
he  might  be  alive  now  had 
he  not  been  a  star. 
The  two  rivals  for  the  social  leadership  of 
Hollywood  were  Mrs.  Antonio  Moreno  and 
Mrs.  Earle  Williams.  Both  women  were  mil- 
lionairesses married  to  stars.  (A  few  months 
ago  Mrs.  Williams  killed  herself  because  of 
poverty.)  Hollywood,  it  was  pointed  out  in 
this  story,  had  become  intensely  social. 

We  mentioned  Marion  Davies'  distinguished 
parties,  but  we  added  that  "she  entertains  spas- 
modically and  it's  a  sideline  with  her.  She  has 
her  work ! "  And  Mary  Pickford  was  not  men- 
tioned! Now,  of  course,  Mary  and  Marion 
wear  the  social  crowns. 

But  then  we  said,  "No  actress  can  give  the 


5  Years  Ago 


time  or  thought  to  make  herself  really  a  social 
leader." 

A  long  story  explained  why  Sam  Goldwyn 
paid  $125,000  for  the  novel,  "The  Winning  of 
Barbara  Worth,"  in  which  Ronald  Colman  and 
Vilma  Banky  were  starred. 

The  last  photograph  of  Rudolph  Valentino 
was  used  with  a  condensed  version  of  his  life 
story. 

"Beau  Geste"  (will  you  ever  forget  it?), 
which  covered  Ronnie  Colman,  Ralph  Forbes, 
Neil  Hamilton  and  William  Powell  with  glory, 
was  given  best  notice  along  with  Jack  Gilbert's 
"Bardelys,  the  Magnificent."  We  liked  "Tin 
Gods"  with  Renee  Adoree  and  Tommy 
Meighan.  Little  Renee  was  the  smiling  girl  on 
the  cover  and  the  stars  in  the  gallery  included 
Norma  Shearer  Fay  Wray,  Jacqueline  Logan, 
Reginald  Denny,  Red  Grange,  Greta  Garbo 
and  Blanche  Sweet. 

Cal  York  items:  Eleanor  Boardman  and 
King  Vidor  were  married  at  the  home  of 
Marion  Davies.  .  .  .  Doris  Kenyon  and 
Milton  Sills  were  about  to  be  married.  .  .  . 
Anna  Q.  Nilsson  was  visiting  in  Sweden. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


I  I  I 


I  Cannot  Write 
That  Story — 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  70  ] 


"Leila,  I've  had  a  terrible  break.  I  have  to 
write  a  story  about  you!" 

Her  face  clouded.  "I'm  sorry  for  you,  Ruth, 
really  I  am.  I  understand.  I  don't  know 
what  to  do.  I've  about  decided  you  have  to 
act  half-cracked  to  make  a  headline  success  in 
this  business.  What  shall  I  do?  Go  around 
smashing  up  sets  or  vamp  Clark  Gable  at  the 
Cocoanut  Grove  dances? 

"I  really  think  I  am  the  champion  publicity 


You  can't  have  too  many  woolen 
costumes  this  season  according  to 
Seymour.  Certainly  not  if  they  are  all 
as  good  looking  as  this  one  of  Frances 
Dee's.  It  is  a  brown  woolen  with  a 
striped  brown  and  beige  silk  under- 
neath giving  it  a  coat-like  look.  Does 
that    hat    really    fit    you,    Frances? 


Now  Simple  To  Really 

Get  Rid  Of 

Arm  Or  Leg  Hair 

Utterly  Without  the  Problem  of  Coarsened  Re-growth 


A  Discovery  That  is  Proving  to  the 
Wonder  of  the  Cosmetic  World  That 
Hair  Can  Not  Only  Be  Removed  In- 
stantly, But  Its  Reappearance  Delayed 
Amazingly. 

A  way  of  removing  arm  and  leg  hair  has 
been  found  that  not  only  removes  every 
vestige  of  hair  instantly,  but  that  banishes 
the  stimulated  hair  growth  thousands  of 
women  are  charging  to  the  razor  and  less 
modern  ways.  A  way  that  not  only  removes 
hair,  but  delays  its  reappearance  remarkably. 

It  is  changing  previous  conceptions  of  cos- 


Not  only  is  slightest  fear  of  coarsened  re- growth 

banished  but  actual  reappearance  of  hair   is 

slowed  amazingly. 

meticians  about  hair  removing.  Women  are 
flocking  to  its  use.  The  creation  of  a  noted 
laboratory,  it  is  different  from  any  other 
hair  remover  known. 

What  It  Is 

It  is  an  exquisite  toilet  creme  resembling  a 
superior  beauty  clay  in  texture.  You  simply 


By  a  total  lack  of  stubble  you  can  feel  the  dif- 
ference between  this  and  old  ways. 


spread  it  on  where  hair  is  to  be  removed. 
Then  rinse  off  with  water. 

That  is  all.  Every  vestige  of  hair  is  gone; 
so  completely  that  even  by  running  your 
hand  across  the  skin  not  the  slightest  trace 
of  stubble  can  be  felt.  And — the  reappear- 
ance of  that  hair  is  delayed  surprisingly! 

When  re-growth  finally  does  come,  it  is  ut- 
terly unlike  the  re-growth  following  the 
razor  and  old  ways.  You  can  feel  the  differ- 
ence. No  sharp  stubble.  No  coarsened  growth. 

The  skin,  too,  is  left  soft  as  a  child's.  No 
skin  roughness,  no  enlarged  pores.  You  feel 
freer  than  probably  ever  before  in  your  life 
of  annoying  hair  growth. 

Where  To  Obtain 

It  is  called  Neet — and  is  on  sale  at  a.11  drug 
and  department  stores  and  beauty  parlors. 
Costs  only  a  few  cents. 

N  Cream 

\*    K*    L      Hair  Remover 


fa 


Beautifully  Developed 

IS  FASHION'S  DECREE— a  full, 
rounded  form  of  feminine  grace  and 
charm.  If  you  are  flat-chested  and 
unattractive,  investigate  the 
National  Developer.  Sold 
for  fifteen  years — praised  by 
hundreds.  Writeforbooklet, 
"BEAUTY  CURVES  DE- 
VELOPED," sent  FREE 
— no  obligation. 

THE  OLIVE  COMPANY 
Dept.  P  Manitou,  Colo. 


Professional 

'STAGE  TAP 

DANCING* 

LEARN  AT  HOME  NEW  EASY  WAV. 
Ctitertaio    yOUI     friend.,    win    new 

llop  hidden  lalent.      Ni>  niu.ir  01 

noeannnry        Bagfonora'     fund 

nnd    complete     I'rofe.nionnl    Tap    Dance    included. 

ray  to  reduce.     Great  muscle  builder.    For 

Udir.   or   men.      Send   only   J.I  7.'.    room  I    "'dcr   f..r 

,„...  ,,(  IT  1.-....,,.  ,.r  Sand  No  Monoy  «nd 

p.v    pctman   *3.»8   on  delivery     (Erecpi    foreign.! 

Nothing  more  lo  nay.    Try  Sanyo.    If  not  dclirhied 

money  refunded     timbering  excrci-.  given  FREE 

NROLL  NOW! 

THORNTON    DANCE   STUDIOS 
2T51  Mildr.cj  t«.i   Studio  V-190.    Chicago.  III. 


SUBSCRIBE  FOR  PHOTOPLAY 


See  PaiSc  127  for  rates.    Use  the 
handy   Subscription    Blank. 


I  12 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


IDENTIFY 
THESE    EYES! 


It  < > 1 1 1_- 1 1 1  to  be  easy,  for  their  owner  is  the  ac- 
knowledged comedy  queen  of  the  talking  pic- 
tures. S  feet,  5  inches  tall,  she  weighs  138  lbs. 
and  has  light  hair  and  hazel  eyes.  Name  below*. 

safely  relieves 
irritated  eyes 

To  eyes  irritated  by  over-use,  late 
hours,  crying,   motoring,  or  ex- 
posure to  sun,  wind  and  dust, 
Murine  affords  safe  and  imme- 
diate relief.  Easily  applied  with 
its  combination  bottle  stopper 
and  eye  dropper,  it  instantly 
ends  the  burning  feeling  and 
soon  clears  up  any  bloodshot 
condition.  This  world-famous 
formula  of  a  veteran  eye 
specialist  costs  but  60c  at  all 
drug  and  department  stores. 

*Louise  Fazenda 

Requires  no  insanitary  eye  cup! 


Freckles 

VANISH    LIKE   MAGIC 


"DEMOVE  those  embarrassing  freckles. 
■"  Surprise  your  friends  with  a  new 
velvety  soft,  crystal  clear  complexion. 
You  can  —  with  Stillman'e  Freckle 
Cream.  It  bleaches  them  out  while 
you  sleep.  Done  so  quickly  and  easily 
— secretly  too.  The  first  jar  proves  its 
magic   worth.     At  all   drug  stores. 


Still  man's 


II mans  fflf   / 

kle  Cream  JU     // 

es  Freckles — Whitens  Skin  II 

The    Stillman    Company, 

Anrnr.'i      III        II     S     A 


The    Stillman    Company, 
Aurora,  III.,  U.  S.  A. 
85   Beauty     Dept.,    send    free 
booklet.    Tells    why    you    have 
freckles — how  to  remove  them. 


I 
I 

J 


flop  of  Hollywood,"  she  sighed.    Tears  flirted 
with  her  eyelashes. 

"My  mother  had  the  same  trouble.  Do  you 
suppose  I  inherited  it  from  her?  I  remember 
sitting  in  the  corner  of  the  dressing-room 
when  reporters  came  to  see  her.  She,  too,  was 
happily  married.  Hyams  and  Mclntyre — the 
vaudeville  team.  Mother  would  try  to  think 
up  things  to  say  but  she'd  always  end  with: 
'I'm  sorry,  boys,  I  just  have  no  skeletons  to 
rattle!' 


of 


"T  was  practically  born  acting.    It's  part 
-'■my  nature.    But  acting  isn't  enough,  no 
You  see,  I'm  happy  and  to  be  successful  in 
pictures,  one  shouldn't  be  happy — " 

It  was  right  at  this  moment  that  I  trans- 
ferred my  sympathy  from  Clara  to  Leila. 

"You  see,  I  simply  can't  getitoutof  my  head 
that  being  happy  is  really  important.  You 
know,  I  was  to  play  the  lead  in  'The  Lion 
and  the  Mouse,'  the  first  part-talkie.  I  was 
in  New  York.  Phil  and  I  decided  to  get 
married. 

"The  day  before  the  ceremony,  Warners 
telegraphed  me  to  take  the  next  train;  pro- 
duction had  been  moved  up.  I  know  what 
I  should  have  done.  I  should  have  taken  the 
train  and  given  the  story  to  the  newspapers. 
Can't  you  see  it? 

"Actress  leaves  man  on  eve  of  wedding  for 
career.  Leila  Hyams  to  be  starred  in  first 
talkie! 

"Instead,  I  sent  a  wire  to  Warners  that  I 
couldn't  come,  and  then  got  married.  They 
broke  my  contract.  I  was  out  but  I  was 
happy.  Sorry?  N — n — o.  Only,  I  can't  give  up 
my  career,  either.  I  told  you  I  was  born  act- 
ing. If  I  were  given  just  one  big  picture — 
my  one  chance — I  know  I  could  do  it!" 

Yes,  Leila  could  do  it.  But  how  much  would 
it  help  her?  Does  acting  create  your  success 
in  pictures?  Does  it  really  start  you  in  the 
big  box-office?    Let's  take  those  big  names. 

Crawford!  Would  Joan  have  been  the  big 
hit  of  today  if  she  had  entered  pictures  as  a 


lady?  Hey-hey  publicity  made  her  name  a 
byword  with  thousands.  Dancing  cups,  brok- 
en engagements.  True,  she  is  the  dignified 
Mrs.  Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  now,  but  when 
you  see  her  typifying  the  younger  generation 
on  the  screen,  you  know  she  has  lived  what 
she  is  portraying. 

Garbo?  When  you  see  her  moving 
mysteriously,  sinuously  across  the  screen  you 
know  she's  as  mysterious  in  person  as  she  is 
in  her  shadow. 

Shearer!  You  know  she  struggled  and 
fought  and  trained  herself  with  heartaches  to 
become  the  svelte  wife-of-a-producer. 

Bennett.  Ah,  Constance!  Champagne  and 
caviar.  She's  tasted  them  in  life;  she  rep- 
resents them  to  you  from  experience. 

Velez!  When  she  vamps  a  man  you  know 
she's  vamped  such  names  as  Tom  Mix,  Al 
Jolson,  Gary  Cooper. 

Swanson.  When  Gloria  discards  a  husband 
you  know  she's  discarded  three  in  real  life  and 
must  know  her  business. 

But  Hyams?  I  told  her  I  couldn't  write  a 
story  about  her. 

T  EILA  puckered  her  nose  in  a  half -cry  and  a 
-'-'half -giggle.  "Three  months  ago,  they  rushed 
me  to  the  hospital  at  five  o'clock  in  the 
morning  to  remove  my  appendix.  Three  days 
later,  my  husband  said,  'There  hasn't  been  a 
word  in  the  papers.'  I  couldn't  understand 
it.  The  papers  always  make  so  much  of 
actresses'  appendixes.  Here,  I  should  have  had 
a  real  break! 

"A  few  moments  later  the  doctor  came  in 
and  said,  'The  newspaper  boys  called  and  in- 
sisted you  were  in  the  hospital.  I  insisted  I 
didn't  know  a  thing  about  it.  You've  over- 
worked for  two  years;  you've  had  no  rest. 
I  knew  you  wouldn't  want  to  be  disturbed — ' 
I  didn't  say  anything;  I  wouldn't  hurt  his 
feelings  for  the  world.  But  I'd  even  lost  the 
break  due  me  on  my  appendix!" 

So  now  you  see  why  I  cannot  write  a  story 
about  Leila  Hyams. 


But  I  Can  Unmask  Jean  Harlow 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  71 


She  raised  that  determined  little  chin  in  the 
same  independent  way  she  had  so  recently 
raised  it  to  her  horror-stricken  grandfather 
when  she  said:  "You  made  your  own  money. 
Now,  I  am  going  to  make  mine.  I  am  going 
back  into  pictures."  Grandpa  took  her  at  her 
word.    She  is  still  disinherited! 

SHE  set  out  to  be  a  vamp  as  she  had  set  out 
to  be  an  actress.  Hollywood  had  paid  no 
attention  to  her  glorious  cream  and  white 
complexion;  her  sweet  eyes;  that  lurking 
ingenue  expression. 

But  when  Hollywood  saw  her  figure — All 
right!    It  should  see  her  figure. 

I  met  Jean  Harlow  shortly  after  that  de- 
cision. It  was  at  a  five  o'clock  cocktail  party. 
Most  of  the  women,  even  our  most  famous 
actresses,  were  in  sport  clothes  or  semi- 
tailored  street  things.  Jean  arrived  in  black 
satin.  Sleeky,  form-clinging,  exposing  black 
satin. 

It  was  cut  to — well,  the  same  point  it  was  cut 
in  "Hell's  Angels." 

She  removed  her  come-hither  hat  because  her 
startling  white  hair  was  even  more  come- 
hitherish.  Within  five  seconds  after  she  entered 
that  room  every  man  had  gravitated  to  the 
Jean  Harlow  corner.  Nor  did  they  leave;  Jean 
saw  to  that.  She  was  acting — just  as  she  had 
acted  in  "Hell's  Angels."    She'd  show  them. 

The  women  gathered  in  another  comer — 
gathered  to  whisper  about  Jean  Harlow.  You 
can  guess  what  they  said.  You  know  women. 
And  more  than  one  of  them  had  a  husband 
fighting  for  air  in  that  other  corner! 


Now,  personally,  I  didn't  see  Jean  do  a 
thing  or  hear  her  say  a  word  which  was  the 
least  bit  unladylike  at  that  party.  I  did  feel 
she  was  dressed  more  for  Monte  Carlo  than 
Hollywood,  where  people  come  to  afternoon 
affairs  directly  from  the  sets — in  business 
attire.  But  she  had  explained  that  by  saying 
she  was  going  on  to  an  evening  affair  and  had 
to  dress  for  both  simultaneously.  Whether 
this  was  the  truth  or  an  excuse  for  the  sake  of 
the  women  I  didn't  know,  but  I  gave  her 
credit  for  the  good  taste  which  prompted  her 
to  make  some  explanation. 

No,  I  didn't  see  anything  out  of  the  way 
myself,  but  I  heard  stories  about  that  party 
for  weeks  thereafter.  Stories  of  how  Jean 
Harlow  acted;  how  she  vamped  husbands. 
The  hostess  was  very  busy  for  three  months 
after  it  happened  telling  Hollywood  how 
ashamed  she  had  been  of  Jean  Harlow  at  that 
party. 

JEAN  went  home  dead  tired  and  slipped  into 
her  pajamas.  She  was  a  success;  at  least  her 
foot  had  found  its  spot  on  the  magic  rug. 

But  Jean  reckoned  without  knowledge  of  the 
terrible  ogre  which  haunts  all  Hollywood 
celebrities.    That  old  devil,  gossip. 

She  was  living  up  to  what  she  thought 
Hollywood  expected  of  her.  Hollywood  began 
living  up  to  what  it  thought  Jean  expected  of 
them. 

Her  picture  appeared  in  a  Los  Angeles 
paper.    It  was  black-captioned  "Sex-quisite." 

She  went  to  New  York.  On  the  train  she 
received  a  wire  to  return  for  retakes  on  "The 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Secret  Six."  She  was  in  New  York  exactly 
one  night.  But  Walter  Winchell  said  in  his 
column  that  she  was  being  seen  and  taken 
around  (as  though  it  were  night  after  night) 
with  the  "big,  little  producer  with  the  bow 
tie."  George  White  had  been  on  the  same 
train.  They  were  seen  out  that  one  night 
together. 

JIMMY  WALKER  was  at  Palm  Springs  at 
J  the  same  time  that  Jean  and  her  mother  and 
father  were  among  those  present.  The  first 
night  a  group  of  fifteen  gossiped  in  the  huge 
drawing-room  of  the  hotel.  Jimmy  did  rather 
single  out  Jean.  You  couldn't  blame  him. 
But  they  were  not  alone  for  a  moment  and 
he  did  talk  to  many  other  women. 

The  next  evening  was  identically  the  same. 
She  did  not  see  him  alone  once  during  the  two 
days.  The  morning  after  the  second  evening 
in  the  public  drawing-room  she  was  awakened 
at  six  A.  M.    "This  is  Jimmy  Walker  speaking." 

"Why  are  you  calling  me  at  this  hour?" 

"I  just  wanted  to  warn  you  we  are  in  the 
headlines  in  New  York  this  morning." 

Jean  and  her  family  left  Palm  Springs  in  a 
hurry. 

Jean  and  her  mother  and  father  went  to 
Agua  Caliente  for  a  few  days.  They  had  a 
suite.  One  morning  as  she  was  leaving  the 
Casino,  she  ran  into  Hal  Roach  and  Leo 
McCarey.  "I  swear  we  didn't  stand  and  chat 
over  three  moments.  It  was  the  only  time  I 
saw  them  down  there." 


A  syndicate  writer  printed  a  story  that  Jean 
and  Mr.  Roach  were  at  Agua  Caliente  to- 
gether and  fireside  trouble  was  pending  in  the 
Roach  home. 

Jean  is  naturally  a  democratic  youngster. 
She  almost  makes  a  fetish  of  it.  On  the  set, 
she  chats  with  prop  boys,  electricians,  camera- 
men, grips,  assistant  directors,  stars  and 
directors  alike.  No  snobbish  lines  for  her. 
As  Joan  Crawford  did  when  she  began  in  this 
business.  You  remember  how  Joan  gave  her 
picture  to  a  musician,  and  his  wife  sued,  nam- 
ing her  as  corespondent?  As  I  remember  it, 
Joan  learned  his  name  for  the  first  time  be- 
cause of  the  suit!  Well,  Jean  went  to  work  on 
a  certain  picture.  Only  a  few  days  later  rumor 
went  out,  "Vamp  Jean  Harlow  is  after  her 
cameraman  hook,  line  and  sinker."  Jean  had 
never  seen  him  off  the  set! 

WE  could  go  on  with  enough  examples  to  fill 
all  of  our  pages.  A  twenty-year-old 
youngster  has  become,  in  the  public  mind,  one 
of  the  most  blase  seducers  of  the  film  colony. 

I  believed  it  myself  until  I  had  been  in  her 
home  enough  times  to  be  convinced  against  the 
seeming  truth  of  all  the  published  stories  and 
word-of-mouth  information. 

Jean  Harlow  is  exactly  like  numerous  other 
young  girls  who  have  always  been  blessed — or 
cursed — with  too  much  spending  money.  She 
went  to  half  a  dozen  of  America's  private 
schools.  She  was  mischievous,  restless,  the 
epitome  of  the  modern  girl  who  thinks  it  is 


R  CHARM 


Ona  Munson  (what  a  pretty  girl!)  presents  her  two  Chihuahua  pups. 
Names  not  given,  but  we  suggest  "Love  'em"  and  "Leave  'em."  Inci- 
dentally, Ernst  Lubitsch  was  recently  noted  shopping  Hollywood  Boule- 
vard for  a  diamond  ring.  Now  listen  for  the  wedding  bells  for  Ernst  and 
Ona.    They  have  been  keeping  company  for  months 


THOUGH  blessed  with  the  lineaments 
of  a  goddess — though  gowned  by 
Lanvin,  and  hatted  by  Agnes — a  woman 
may  yet  fail  in  attractiveness  because  of 
the  poisons  that  collect  in  the  system.  For 
attractiveness,  that  elusive  quality,  depends 
most  of  all  on  internal  cleanliness. 

When  poisons  cloud  the  skin,  dull  the 
eyes,  drag  down  the  spirits,  kill  charm — 
all  the  beauty  treatments  in  the  world  can- 
not correct  the  damage  they  do! 

Be  clean  internally,  then.  The  saline 
treatment  with  Sal  Hepatica  makes  it  an 
easy  matter. 

What  the  "saline  cure"  does  for  fashion- 
able Europeans,  who  go  regularly  to  Con- 
tinental springs  and  spas  to  recapture  health 
and  beauty,  Sal  Hepatica  can  do  for  you  at 
home.  For  Sal  Hepatica  has  the  same  prop- 
erties as  the  famous  European  waters.  It 
banishes  constipation,  cleans  the  blood- 
stream, gets  rid  of  the  poisons  that  keep 
you  from  being  good-looking,  clear-eyed, 
alluring.  It  sustains  your  charm  and  keeps 
you  young! 

Just  buy  a  bottle  of  Sal  Hepatica  today 
and  begin  the  saline  treat- 
ment  before  breakfast 
tomorrow  morning. 

Write  Bristol-Myers  Co., 
Dept.  G-m,  71  West  St., 
New  York  City,  for  a  free 
booklet, "To  Clarice  in  Quest 
of  Her  Youth." 

SAL   HEPATICA 


ii4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Sensible  way  to  lose 

FAT 


Woman  Loses  151  2  pounds 
in  2  Weeks! 

A  half  teaspoonful  of  Kruschen  Salts  in  a 
glass  of  hot  water  every  morning  before  break- 
fast provides  a  GUARANTEED  safe,  quick 
and  pleasant  way  to  obtain  slenderness. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Taylor  of  Lewisburg,  W.  Va., 
writes:  "I'm  not  quite  5  feet  tall  and  weighed 
175  lbs.  I've  been  taking  Kruschen  2  weeks 
and  now  weigh  159^  lbs.  and  never  before 
felt  so  strong  and  energetic. 

Kruschen  is  a  superb  combination  of  6 
SEPARATE  minerals  which  help  every  gland, 
nerve  and  body  organ  to  function  properly — 
that's  why  health  improves  while  ugly  fat  dis- 
appears. (You  can  hasten  results  by  going 
lighter  on  potatoes,  fatty  meat  and  pastry).  An 
85c  bottle  lasts  4  weeks  and  is  sold  in  every 
drugstore  in  the  world. 

KRUSCHEN  SALTS 

"It's  the  Little  Daily  Dose  That  Does  It" 


disfiguririg»YE 


H/\YH/\I 


Discriminating   women  the 
world  over  use  only  B.  Paul's 
Henna  Compound  to  impart 
color  to  gray  hair.  ONE  BRIEF 
APPLICATION    returns  color 
with    gloriou9    glints   of  youth 
Dainty — easy  to  apply  at  home 
by  anyone.    Try  it — see  what  a 
beautifying  transformation  it  affects.    Never 
affected    by    oils,    tonics,    waving,    previous 
dyes,    Turkish  or  Sea  baths.    Does  not  stain 
scalp,  wash  or  rub  off.  Sold  over  16  years. 
14  Shades,  Black  to  Blonde.  Price  $1.10  P.P. 
B.  PAUL'S  WHITE  PASTE  (Formerly  Called) 
"White  Henna"  for  lightening  blonde  hair 
grown  dark.  Price  $2.25  Post  Paid. 
Free  Advice  and  Booklet 
Mon.B.Paul,Dept.5-X,21W.39thSL>N.Y. 


DEPILATORY     CREAM 

Perfumed— White— Quick— Sale.  JUJ|  spread  if  on 
and  rinse  off.  Sold  Everywhere.  GIANT  TUBE  50c. 
ZIP Epilator-IT'S  OFF  because  IT'S  OUT 

(Formerly  $5.00)  Now  In  a  new  $1 .00  size  package 


Permanently  Destroys   Hair 


life  to  remonstrate  at  the  restraints  put  upon 
her.  Jean  remonstrated  so  vehemently  that 
she  married,  at  sixteen,  Charles  Freemont 
McGrew,  Second,  a  youth  with  a  lot  of  money 
and  modern  ideas  of  freedom.  She  divorced 
him  last  January.    It  was  a  kid  marriage. 

Jean  was  restless.  She  had  the  blood  of  her 
grandfather  in  her. 

He  wanted  to  do  big  things — make  a  lot 
of  money. 

He  did  it  by  buying  lands  and  selling  them 
at  a  profit.  She  refused  to  knuckle  down  to 
living  on  his  money  as  he  had  refused  to 
knuckle  to  living  on  someone  else's  money  be- 
fore her. 

But  she's  not  a  vamp  by  nature.  Because 
of  her  beauty  and  allure  she  attracts  men  un- 
consciously. 

NOW,  she  seldom  goes  out  without  both  her 
mother  and  father  with  her.  She  is  home 
by  midnight.  She  goes  to  few  Hollywood 
parties.  The  other  day  two  boys  she  has  known 
for  years  dropped  into  Hollywood  from 
Chicago.  They  wanted  her  to  join  a  dancing 
party. 

"We  went  to  Cocoanut  Grove.  There  wasn't 
even  a  catsup  bottle  on  or  under  that  table 
and  yet  I  heard  that  I  fell  down  on  the  floor 
I  was  so  drunk.    I  hate  Hollywood.    I  suppose 


it  sounds  like  biting  the  hand  that  feeds  you. 
But  I  mean,  I  hate  it  because  I  just  can't  be 
myself — they  won't  let  me." 

I  don't  suppose  I  can  convince  you  and  may- 
be it  wouldn't  be  good  for  Jean  if  I  did.  Per- 
haps she'll  get  further  as  the  "sex-vulture." 
That's  her  own  expression.  Hollywood  has  got 
her  scared  to  death.  She's  at  the  point,  now, 
where  she's  even  scared  of  men  whom  she  has 
known  for  ages. 

A  S  for  her  pictures.  "In  'Platinum  Blonde' 
•**-(hernew  Columbia  picture),  I  don't  wear 
a  dress  cut  beneath  the  throat  line.  I  had  a 
terrible  fight  with  Warner  Bros,  over  'The 
Public  Enemy,'  and  they'll  probably  never 
let  me  make  another  picture  for  them .  I  won't 
be  a  vamp  on  the  screen  again.  You  can't 
guess  the  pictures  I've  turned  down  because 
the  moment  I'm  signed  they  change  the  script 
to  undress  me — 

"I've  decided  I'm  going  to  be  an  actress,  not 
a  professional  sex-vulture.  If  I  don't,  I'll  get 
a  job  as  a  clothes  model." 

Will  she  succeed?  It's  an  interesting 
problem — one  of  the  most  interesting  in 
Hollywood  today.  Once  stamped  as  a  type 
it's  hard  to  break  away.  And  there's  always 
her  figure — but  somehow,  I'm  betting  she'll 
live  down  that  figure. 


She  inherits  a  great  part,  this  pretty  little  Dorothy  Dix.  Dorothy  is  to 
play  Vce  in  the  new  series  of  "Torchy"  comedies  for  Educational.  When 
the  original  series  was  made  in  silent  form  some  years  back,  such  current 
stars  as  Dorothy  Mackaill,  Clara  Bow,  Jacqueline  Logan,  Norma  Shearer 
and  Billie  Dove  played  in  the  "Torchies."    How  about  a  little  stardom 

for  Dotty  Dix? 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


ll5 


The  Shadow  Stage 

The  National  Guide  to  Motion  Pictures 


(REG.  U.  S.  PAT.  OFF.) 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  53 


THE  DREYFUS  CASE— Columbia 

THIS  account  of  the  famous  Dreyfus  and 
Emile  Zola  rumpus  (go  on — brush  up  on 
your  history  as  we  did)  is  done  with  precision 
and  accuracy  (Dreyfus  supervised  it)  but  with- 
out much  warmth.  Taking  place  mostly  in  the 
French  courts,  it  will  appeal  to  people  who  like 
that  sort  of  heavy  film  fare.  Splendidly  acted. 
Made  in  England  with  a  British  cast. 

HEAVEN  ON  EARTH— Universal 

IF  you're  a  Lew  Ayres  fan  you'll  probably 
like  this,  but  Lew  is  about  the  only  reason  for 
seeing  it.  The  hatred  between  the  shanty- 
boaters  and  the  steam-boaters  on  the  Missis- 
sippi is  the  theme  of  the  picture.  There  is  one 
thrilling  scene,  however,  when  the  shanty- 
boaters  are  set  adrift.  1931  Baby  Star  Anita 
Louise  is  splendid,  but  they  should  not  have 
given  her  that  Southern  accent  to  do. 

FIFTY  FATHOMS  DEEP— Columbia 

THE  same  old  plot,  that  of  the  two-pals-and- 
one-wife,  and  it's  a  shame  to  waste  Richard 
Cromwell,  one  of  the  few  youngsters  with  real 
talent,  on  such  hokum.  In  this  he  and  Jack 
Holt  are  deep-sea  divers.  The  storm  and 
underwater  scenes  are  thrilling  and  the  dance 
hall  is  a  nice  piece  of  realism. 

THE  MYSTERY  TRAIN— 
Darmour  Prod. 

A  MYSTERY  melodrama  of  the  old  school, 
with  enough  sure-fire  hokum  and  suspense 
to  satisfy  both  kiddies  and  grown-ups.  Marce- 
line  Day  and  Nick  Stuart  carry  the  love 
interest,  while  Hedda  Hopper  and  Bryant 
Washburn  keep  you  guessing  about  the 
"mystery."  Al  Cooke  does  well  with  the 
comedy. 

THE  WHITE  DEVIL— UFA 

THE  Russians  are  at  it  again — fighting 
seriously,  loving  seriously  and  suffering 
seriously  in  those  big  fur  hats.  This  movie, 
made  in  Germany  with  English  dialogue,  is 
about  a  Caucasian  leader  who  rescues  an  in- 
nocent dancer  from  the  Czar  and  gets  killed  for 
his  trouble.  But  some  of  the  shots  are  mag- 
nificent. Lil  Dagover,  over  here  now,  is 
beautiful,  and  it's  quite  impressive. 

SHOULD  A  DOCTOR  TELL?— 
Regal  Prod. 

A  DREARY  story  about  a  doctor  torn  be- 
tween his  duty  as  a  medico  to  keep  silent 
and  his  duty  toward  his  son  to  tell  a  consulting- 
room  secret.  Spoken  in  the  most  Oxfordian 
British,  it  is  still  pretty  monotonous  stuff.  The 
cast  is  all  English.    You  wouldn't  know  them. 


THE  PARISIAN— Capital  Prod. 

ADOLPHE  MENJOU  and  Elissa  Landi 
made  this  one  in  England.  And  it  goes  to 
show  that  the  gals  get  their  glamour  after  they 
hit  Hollywood.  At  least  you  would  never 
believe  Elissa  could  turn  out  to  be  the  sloe- 
eyed  mystic.  Menjou  is  his  usual  suave  self 
either  at  home  or  abroad,  but  the  story 
(peppy  lad  tries  to  make  father  a  business  man) 
is  twaddle. 

THE  OLD  SONG  (DAS  ALTE  LIED)— 
Kreutzburg  Prod. 

HpHEY  have  Cinderellas  in  Austria,  too.  And 
*■  they  also  have  wicked  vamps.  This  yarn, 
with  German  dialogue,  is  about  a  young  baron 
who  falls  in  love  with  a  Viennese  shopgirl.  But 
it's  interesting,  mostly  because  of  Lil  Dagover, 
the  glamorous,  langourous  menace,  who  is  mak- 
ing pictures  in  Hollywood  this  very  minute. 

A  STUDENT'S  SONG  OF  HEIDELBERG 
(EIN  BURSCHENLIED  AUS  HEIDEL- 
BERG)—UFA 

XT  7HETHER  or  not  you  understand  German 
***  this  is  a  grand  picture,  with  rollicking 
students,  rollicking  tunes  and  rollicking  acting. 
The  extras  arcall  real  Heidelberg  boys  and  the 
cameras  did  their  grinding  on  the  old  Heidel- 
berg campus,  or  whatever  they  call  it  over 
there.  There's  a  story,  with  very  good  actors, 
but  the  scenery  and  the  songs  are  what  make  it 
worthwhile. 

WOMEN  MEN  MARRY— 
Headline  Prod. 

•"pHIS  is  a  melodrama  that  finishes  as  a 
*■  comedy  without  intending  to  do  so.  It 
relates  the  experiences  of  two  married  couples 
in  New  York.  These  roles  are  played  by 
Natalie  Moorehead,  Kenneth  Harlan  as  her 
husband,  and  Randolph  Scott  as  Sally  Blane's. 
The  story  is  obvious,  but  players  do  their  best 
and  a  good  time  is  had  by  all. 

THE  SEA  GHOST— Imperial  Prod. 

T  AURA  LA  PLANTE  is  too  fine  an  actress 
-'-'and  too  lovely  to  look  at  to  play  in  such  an 
old-fashioned  melodrama  as  this.  It's  a  com- 
plicated story  about  a  naval  officer  who  is 
sent  to  find  a  will  at  the  bottom  of  the  ocean. 

PAGAN  LADY— Columbia 

•"THE  Sadie  Thompson  theme  is  given  a  new 
*■  dress  in  this  briskly  moving  melodrama  of 
Cuba,  bootleggers  and  reformers.  Evelyn 
Brent  starts  out  as  a  barmaid  but  is  taken  in 
tow  by  the  two-fisted  Charles  Bickford,  head 
of  a  bootlegging  gang.  In  the  end  they  both 
reform,  and  the  story  leaves  you  with  a  laugh. 
William  Farnum,  Conrad  Nagel  and  Roland 
Young  are  other  good  actors  in  the  cast. 


Who  Will  Get  The  Gold  Medal? 

Announcement  of  the  winner  of  The  Photoplay  Gold 
Medal  of  Honor  for  the  best  picture  released  during  1930 
will  be  made  in  Photoplay  as  soon  as  the  ballots  are 
counted.  It's  the  highest  honor  in  filmland  because  it"s 
the  public's  choice. 


BETTER  SHAPE 


PROVE  IT  YOURSELF 


It's  good  for  your  teeth  and  gums 
that  Tek  is  different  from  old  style 
brushes.  See  how  it  fits  the  narrow  arch 
back  of  your  front  teeth.  No  other 
brush  can  do  this.  The  right  spacing 
of  pointed  tufts  gives  Tek  complete 
brushing  ease  —  direct,  quick  cleans- 
ing of  each  crevice  and  tooth  surface. 

BETTER  BRISTLES 

Tek  bristles  are  laboratory -select- 
ed. They  keep  that  typical  Tek 
spring  even  after  months  of  daily  use. 
Better  Bristles  and  Better  Shape  prove 
Tek's  better  value.  Sterilized,  Cello- 
phane-sealed for  your  protection.  A 
guaranteed  product  of  the  world's 
largest  makers  of  dental  accessories. 


dufwnon  olloflttMJVt 


the   modern 

TOOTH  BRUSH 


n6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


#  Evalyn  Kn.it>!>.  Warner  Bros.  Pic- 
lure  Star,  one  of  the  Fairest  of 
the  Fair. 


FAIR-EST 

"The  Natural  Cosmetics" 

CREATED  in  HOLLYWOOD  for  the 
FAIREST  of  the  FAIR 

The  secret  of  the  charm  of  Hollywood's  beauties? 
Sh-sh  —  it's  the  use  of  the  right  cosmetics.    Fair-est 

will  impart  the  same  fascination  to 

your  complexion. 

Rouge  .  .  .  Face  Powder .  .  .  Perfume. 
.  .  .  Dusting  Powder  .  .  .  Bath  Salts. 
Complete  set  at  your  dealer .  .  .  $2.^0 


THE  FAIREST   CO. 
HOLLYWOOD 

501  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York 


FREE 


Complete  Single 
Lock  Test 

GRAY 
HAIR 
Outfit 


Now  prove  for  yourself 
that  gray  hair  is  needless! 
A  single  lock  snipped  from 
hair  is  all  you  need.  This  way  you  see  re- 
sults without  slightest  risk.  Just  comb  on 
clear  liquid.  Gray  goes.  Youthful  color 
comes  —  black,  brown,  auburn,  blonde. 
Entirely  SAFE.  Hair  stays  soft  —  takes  curl 
or  permanent.  Nothing  to  wash  or  rub  off. 

Coupon  Brings  Free  Outfit— Millions 

have  sent  for  it .  .  .  Why  hesitate?   You  risk 
nolhini;  — /my  nothing  .  .  ,  Just  mail  coupon. 

"   MARY  T.  GOLDMAN  " " 

2434  Goldman  Bldg.,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 

Name 


Street 

City--- 

Color  of  your  hairf- 


-  State- 


The  Unknown  Hollywood  I  Know 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  69 


or  now  or  fifty  years  from  now.  Nazimova, 
like  Bernhardt,  had  that  knack  of  never  dating 
her  clothes. 

But  on  the  set — ah,  she  was  different.  Oh, 
mind  you,  no  one  was  allowed  to  watch  her. 
She  had  her  sets  enclosed  in  black  fiats,  but  we 
kids  used  to  dig  holes  in  the  flats  and,  like  boys 
at  the  knot  holes  of  a  baseball  fence,  watch  her. 
I  shall  never  forget  her  coming  down  the  stairs 
in  a  scene  from  "  Camille,"  lithe  and  radiant, 
that  strange  neurotic  little  face  contorted  into 
what  we  thought  then  was  great  emotional 
acting. 

Her  leading  man  was  a  young  fellow  just 
getting  a  few  good  breaks.  Rudolph  Valentino 
was  the  name. 

HpHE  most  beloved  person  on  the  lot  was  May 
*■  Allison.  Her  disposition  was  as  beautiful  as 
her  face.  Everyone  from  the  office  boy  to  the 
greatest  star  loved  her  and  knew  that  she  had 
something  more  than  beauty — charm  and  in- 
telligence. 

I  have  often  regretted  that  May  retired 
before  the  talking  picture  came  in.  She  has  one 
of  the  loveliest  speaking  voices  I  have  ever 
listened  to. 

The  picture  in  which  I  was  playing  was  "  The 
Saphead,"  adapted  from  Winchell  Smith's 
"The  New  Henrietta,"  and  in  it  was  the  dean 
of  American  actors,  the  late  William  H.  Crane; 
Buster  Keaton  (whose  first  feature  length 
picture  it  was),  Odette  Tyler  (a  contemporary 
of  Maude  Adams  and  Ethel  Barrymore)  and 
Irving  Cummings  (now  a  famous  director). 

The  first  day  I  had  to  rush  into  the  midst  of 
a  wedding  with  "the  poipers,"  agroup  of  letters 
that  would,  when  read  (and  they  were  read  in 
that  good  old  melodrama)  prove  the  suave 
villain  really  a  villain.  Just  before  I  went  on 
to  do  the  scene  the  prop  boy  handed  me  the 
letters  I  was  to  carry.  To  hide  my  nervousness 
I  ran  through  them.  They  were  old  fan  letters 
addressed  to  Harold  Lockwood,  who  had  been 


dead  for  months.  It  gave  me  a  strange, 
ghoulish  feeling.  I  don't  remember  what  I  did 
the  first  rehearsal. 

William  H.  Crane  was  really  the  star  of 
"The  Saphead,"  but  before  it  was  finished 
dead-pan  Keaton  had  tucked  it  under  his  arm 
and  walked  away  with  it.  Buster  was  an 
earnest  young  man  in  those  days,  trying  very 
hard  to  make  a  go  of  what  he  thought  his  one 
big  chance.  He  took  his  gags  very  seriously 
and  worked  them  out  with  precision.  He  was 
a  different  person  on  Wednesday  night  at  the 
old  Sunset  Inn. 

Pardon  me  while  I  brush  away  a  tear  for 
Sunset  Inn.  It  was  the  gayest,  most  sparkling 
of  places  where  you  drank  your  liquor  straight 
and  danced  as  you  saw  fit.  It  stands  deserted 
now,  looking  over  the  Pacific,  reminiscing,  per- 
haps, upon  the  glory  that  it  once  had.  Other 
vivid  amusement  spots  were  the  Vernon 
Country  Club,  the  Ship  Cafe,  Nat  Goodwin's 
place  and  a  few  others,  now  all  deserted. 

A  gay  and  lusty  crew  sped  to  Sunset  Inn 
every  Wednesday  night.  Fatty  Arbuckle  (this 
was,  of  course,  before  the  tragedy  for  which  he 
has  paid  so  dearly),  Vi  Dana,  Shirley  Mason, 
Alice  Lake,  Buster — oh,  what  swell  times  they 
had.  Good  talk,  good  liquor,  and  dancing.  I 
sometimes  wonder,  when  I  look  over  those 
smart  and  studiedly  gowned,  well-groomed, 
soft-voiced  stars  at  the  Embassy  Club  and  the 
Mayfair,  if  they  are  having  the  fun  we  used  to 
have  at  Sunset.    I'll  take  a  few  small  bets. 

•"THURSDAY  night  was  the  dance  at  the 
*■  "hotel."  You  didn't  need  to  ask  what 
hotel.  You  meant  that  charming  old  Holly- 
wood Hotel  that  rambles,  rather  dejectedly 
now,  over  a  square  block  of  valuable  Holly- 
wood real  estate.  The  dances  were  open  to  all 
— no  admission.  Just  being  a  resident  of  the 
little  town  admitted  you.  Such  a  thing  could 
not  happen  today.  The  stars  must  have  their 
own  private  clubs  to  avoid  curiosity  seekers. 


Nazimova  was  queen  of  the  Metro  lot  and,  boy,  oh  boy,  did  she  emote! 

Here  she  is  in  "Camille."    Her  leading  man  was  a  comparatively  unknown 

actor.    The  name  was  Rudolph  Valentino 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November 

nobody   cared    much    for    picture 


1  W  1 


II7 


But    then 
people. 

The  younger  crowd  came  to  those  dances  and 
it  was  at  one  of  them  that  a  good  looking  boy 
first  saw  a  tall,  disjointed  girl  with  slim 
dangling  hands — and  loved  her. 

A  few  months  later  Tom  Gallery  and  ZaSu 
Pitts  were  married. 

One  evening  my  mother  and  I  went  to  the 
Hollywood  Community  Theater  to  see  a 
pantomime  in  which  a  friend  of  mine,  Starke 
Patteson,  was  playing.  It  was  called  "The 
Spanish  Fandango."  The  theater,  a  sweet 
little  vine-covered  building  on  Ivor  Street  (on 
the  site  of  which  one  of  the  swankiest  and 
ritziest  of  Hollywood  apartments  now  stands) 
seemed  expectant  that  night.  Only  a  scant 
hundred  people  could  be  seated  there,  but  that 
night  something  was  in  the  atmosphere. 

The  curtain  rose.  The  leading  man,  dressed 
in  a  gay  Spanish  costume,  appeared.  The 
small  audience  gasped.  He  was,  without 
doubt,  the  most  beautiful  male  thing  we  had 
any  of  us  ever  seen.  He  had  grace,  charm, 
beauty,  talent  and — you  could  rather  feel  it 
from  over  those  improvised  footlights — 
courage.  The  curtain  went  down  upon  a 
hushed  group.  I've  never  seen  anything  as 
lovely  as  his  performance. 

MY  mother  and  I  hurried  out  onto  the  little 
porch  to  find  Starke  Patteson  and  to  say, 
"Who  is  that  beautiful  boy?" 

We  were  not  the  only  ones  who  had  asked 
the  question.  Directly  behind  us  a  young  man 
was  saying,  "Who  is  that  boy?"  And  he  was 
answered,  "He's  made  one  picture  for  Ferdi- 
nand Pinney  Earle,  'The  Rubaiyat  of  Omar 
Khayyam.'    And  he's  teaching  music  now." 

"I  want  to  see  him,"  said  the  young  man. 
It  was,  of  course,  Rex  Ingram  who  had  asked, 
and  the  beautiful  princeling  of  "The  Spanish 
Fandango"  was  Ramon  Novarro. 

Although  Rex  Ingram  re-discovered  him,  it 
was  Ferdinand  Pinney  Earle  (you  know  him  as 
"Affinity  Earle"  through  the  front  pages  of  the 
newspapers  and,  incidentally,  he  is  as  mild  a 
man  as  you'd  meet  anywhere  and  not  at  all  the 
gay  Don  Juan  he's  been  pictured)  who  first 
brought  Ramon  to  the  screen.  The  film  was 
released  five  years  after  it  was  made  as  "The 
Lover's  Oath." 

Beautiful  Kathleen  Key,  in  those  days  clear- 
eyed  and  Madonna-like,  who  was  recently 
embroiled  in  an  ugly  scandal  with  Buster 
Keaton,  played  the  lead.  It  was  one  of  the 
most  idyllic  films  ever  made.  Too  lovely  for 
the  box-office,  at  least  in  those  days. 

After  that  night  at  the  theater  Ramon 
worked  for  Rex  Ingram.  I  remember  that  the 
Community  Theater  wanted  to  repeat  "The 
Spanish  Fandango,"  but  Ramon  couldn't  be- 
cause he  had  grown  a  Van  Dyke  beard  for  his 
role  of  Rupert  of  Hcnlzaic  in  "The  Prisoner  of 
Zenda." 

I  COULD  weep  for  the  old  Hollywood.  We 
loved  each  other  more  in  those  days,  we  were 
better  friends.  There  was  so  little  politics  and 
throat-cutting.  There  was  no  bustle,  no 
hubbub.  Each  person  did  his  job  and  that  was 
that.  It  was  all  lazy  and,  somehow,  very 
sweet. 

Don't  think  me  as  sentimental  as  I  really  am. 
Oh,  I'm  thrilled  by  the  mad  parade  that  is 
Hollywood  today  and  I  realize  that  its  crass 
exhibitionism  and  bold  ballyhoo  is  an  interest- 
ing American  cacophony,  but  I  cannot  help  but 
feel  sad  when  I  think  of  the  passing  of  that  old 
and  very  lovely  town. 

Next  month  I'll  take  you  with  me 
into  the  strange  underworld  of  Holly- 
wood and  show  you  some  of  the  pit- 
falls ready  for  a  girl  trying  to  break 
into  pictures  in  those  days.  I'm  ap- 
proached by  a  blackmailer  and  find 
out  about  the  fly-by-night  quickie 
companies.  I  decide  to  give  up  act- 
ing permanently  and  begin  my  so- 
called  literary  career  which  gives  me 
contact  with  more  and  more  stars. 


20th  Prize 


WHY®CHANGED-TO-MARLBORO  CONTEST 

Hazel  M.  Ball,  San  Francisco. 


.Luke  living  in  the  right  part  of  town... 
wearing  the  right  clothes... knowing  the  right 
people... so  smoking  the  right  cigarette  con- 
tributes to  that  delicious  feeling  of  well- 
assurance    that    marks    the    suc- 


being 


and 


cessf  ul ! 


Innate  fastidiousness  of  Marlboro's 
Ivory  Tips,  the  luxury  of  good  taste,  acclaim 
Marlboros  as  Right. 


...55%  more 
in  safety  and 
enjoyment  at 
only  5  cents 
more  in  price 


MARLBORO 

°'l  Xmmca's  JpatsX  dqcadi 


IT'S    AS    NEW 
^akNEXT   MINUTE 
ON  YOUR   CLOCK 


The  Wiggins  Com- 
pact Binder  Card 
Case  is  today's  idea 
of  a  really  modern 
and  beautiful  carrier 
of  fine  cards  —  that 
always  keeps  your  cards  clean,  available,  re- 
spectable. Scored  cards  bound  firmly  together 
in  tab  form  with  tissues  between  each  cannot 
flop  around  and  become  soiled  when  carried  in 
our  neat  genuine  leather  case  insuring  100% 
use  of  cards. 

You'll  like  its  quick  handiness  — its  corn- 
pad  efficiency  — its  beautiful  appearance. 

Naturally,  it  requires  fine  cards— Wiggins- 
engraved  cards  — to  make  the  quality  combi- 
nation complete.  Would  you  like  to  receive 
sample  tab  of  the  kind  of  fine  cards  you  have 
always  known  you  wanted  and  needed?  They'll 
gladly  be  sent  on  request  — together  with  full 
description  and  prices. 

The  JOHN  B.  WIGGINS 

tympany 

1166  FULLERTON  AVE.    •    CHICAGO 


HOTEL      . 

MONTCIAIC 


Room  and 
Bath 

Tub  and  Shower 

*3  to  *5 

per  day 
For  2  perso  ns 

$4  to  $6 

per  day 

Suites 

«8  to  H2 

per  day 
Special    Monthly 
and  Yearly   Rates 


49th  to  50th  Sts. 
Lexington.  Ave. 
NEW  YORK  CITY 

800  Rooms 

Each  with  Tub 

and  Shower 

Radio  in  livery  Room 


3  minutes'  walk  from  Grand  Central.  Times 
Square,  Fifth  Avenue  Shops  important 
commercial  centers,  leading  shops  and 
theatres  nearby.    lOminutes  to  Penn.  Station. 


Grand   Central   Palace 
only  2  short  blocks  away 


S.  Gregory  laytor, 
President 

Oiar*    Richird. 
Manager 


For  a  Holiday  Present  nothing  will  be  more  greatly 
appreciated  than  a  subscription  to  Photoplay. 
You  will  find  a  subscription  coupon  on  page  127 


n8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


H  i  -Vita 


r.  process 


"VJeet  the  1932  model  College  Inn 
*■**-  Tomato  Juice  Cocktail — the 
original — now,  better  than  ever, 
thanks  to  the  new  exclusive  *Hi- 
Vita  process. 

Better  because: 

•jc  Hi-Vita  process  preserves  the 
flavor  and  the  vitamins  in  tomato 
juice  to  a  degree  never  hefore 
known.  Permits  the  extraction  of 
air — air  is  the  thief  of  flavor;  air 
also  destroys  vitamins 

■jf  Also  a  new,  improved  cap — easily 
removed — quickly   replaced. 

This  brand  new  model  of  College  Inn 
is  the  smoothest,  most  full-bodied, 
full-flavored  tomato  juice  cocktail  on 
the  market  today. 

Try  it!   Discover  for  yourself  how 
really  fine  it  is.    At  your  dealer's. 


*Hi-  Vila  Process — after  theju  ice  has  been  pressed 
out  of  the  fresh,  ripe  tomatoes  it  is  pumped  into 
vacuum  tanks,  mounted  on  steel  lowers,  100 
feet  above  Hie  around.  Tliere  the  juice  is  sub- 
jected to  a  19-inch  vacuum — a  light  bulb,  al- 
most a  perfect  vacuum,  is  only  30  inches. 


(oil 


ege 


nn 


THE  ORIGINAL 
TOMATO  JUICE 
C  O  C  KTA  I  L 

College  Inn  Food  Products  Co. 

Hotel  Sherman Chicago 

415  Greenwich  St ... .  New  York 


Jimmie  Hates 
Sandwiches 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  35  ] 

home-cooking  unless  mother  needs  a  rest  from 
cooking  it  for  me. 

"No!  Life  is  a  matter  of  compensations. 
You  make  money  easily,  you  lose  it  more 
easily.  You  have  success  quickly;  you  lose  it 
more  quickly.  I  have  lived  high;  I  have 
starved.  I  have  learned  to  appreciate  an 
honest,  sane  existence.  I  hope  for  success  out 
here  but  I  have  six  months  to  save  money  so  if 
my  contract  isn't  taken  up  next  time,  I'll  have 
a  nest  egg  and  not  have  to  worry.  This  is  just 
a  good  job  to  me  and  I'm  not  going  to  forget  it. 

"I  am  not  going  to  believe  what  my  press- 
agent  writes  about  me. 

"No  matter  what  he  says,  I  know  it's  all  a 
matter  of  work  and  getting  back  exactly  what 
you  put  into  it!" 

OF  course  he's  sophisticated!  So  sophisti- 
cated that  he's  naive  when  it's  necessary. 
He  uses  naiveness  as  many  wary  men  before 
him  have  used  it. 

When  Hollywood  folks  heard  that  "Bad 
Girl "  was  breaking  all  Roxy  Theater  records  in 
New  York  City  and  that  James  Dunn  was 
heralded  as  the  latest  Charles  Farrell  screen 
possibility — it  sat  back  on  its  collective 
haunches  and  chorused,  "Who  is  this  James 
Dunn  person?  "  And  when  the  word  came  that 
he  was  to  be  the  next  Charlie  Farrell,  that  he 
was  the  new  team-partner  of  Janet  Gaynor — 
well,  we  can't  blame  Hollywood  for  wanting  to 
know,  can  we? 

Especially,  we  cannot  blame  the  Hollywood 
girls!  They  are  all  a-twitter  and  a-chirp  about 
this  lad  who  has  slipped  so  quietly  into  their 
midst  and  taken  such  a  big  place  in  such  a 
brief  period  of  time.  In  fact,  to  be  a  bit 
commonplace,  the  girls  are  after  this  new  lad 
hook,  line  and  sinker.  The  only  trouble  is:  To 
date  they  don't  know  what  bait  to  use! 

James  Dunn  looks  like  the  kind  who  would 
snap  at  the  first  bait  thrown  him.  He's  so  un- 
assuming and  so  sort  of  naive  appearing.  He 
lives  in  a  demure  little  house,  alone  with  his 
mother. 

He  doesn't  go  out  much — except  to  take  his 
mother  to  some-of-the-places-which-she-should- 
see  in  the  evening.  Surely,  he  would  snap  at 
a  really  thrilling  invitation. 

But  he  didn't!  He  just  thanked  the  host- 
esses sweetly,  naively  and  gratefully  and 
reckoned  he'd  better  stay  home  with  his 
mother.  She  would  be  lonesome.  Which 
might  have  been  bashfulness,  but  again — 
might  it  not  have  been  wisdom?  Perhaps  he 
had  watched  other  fish  get  caught  in  an  equally 
guileless  fashion. 

They  delved  further  into  his  record.  He 
looked  about  twenty-two.  He  was  twenty-six! 
Still,  that  didn't  prove  anything.  Life  might 
have  passed  him  by  even  until  the  ■  thirties. 

T_JE  has  never  been  out  of  love — not  for  any 
-t  -Hong  period.  In  love  now?  Of  course  he  is 
— with  a  non-professional  girl  in  New  York 
City.  Longdistance  love  is  the  cheapest!  And 
James  Dunn  has  been  too  busy  getting  his  feet 
on  financial  terra  firma  to  try  anything  in  the 
short-wave  length  area. 

He's  been  here  six  months — his  second  six- 
month  option  has  been  taken  up  by  the  Fox 
Company  as  this  is  written.  He  admits  that  he 
is  just  beginning  to  breathe  freely  without 
wondering  whether  there'll  be  another  three 
days  in  his  life  when  he  will  be  forced  to  go  on  a 
sandwich  diet. 

P.  S. — The  Hollywood  gossip  has  started  in. 
One  newspaper  movie  columnist  says  he  was 
seen  at  lunch  with  Sally  O'Neil.  See  story 
about  Sally  elsewhere  in  this  issue.  Perhaps 
they  were  just  comparing  notes  on  tough 
times. 


A  COLD  WEATHER 
STYLE  HINT/ 

Women  who  want  both  style 
and    comfort,    wear    Indera 
Figurfit    (ColdPruf)     Knit 
Slips.    These  smart  slips  are 
the     very    thing   for   cold 
weather.   They're  knitted 
by  a  special  process  that 
insures  complete  protec- 
tion on  the  coldest  days, 
yet  they  may  be  worn 
underneath  the  smart- 
est   dress.      For    they 
never  bunch  between  the 
knees  or  crawl  around  the 
hips.     They  fit  without  a 
bulge  or  wrinkle.     And  the 
STA-UP  shoulder  straps  al- 
ways live  up  to  their  name. 
Indera  is  made  in  two  models, 
sport  and  regular.for  women, 
misses    and    children.    Ask 
your  dealer  to  show  you  your 
size  in  all  wool,  rayon  and 
wool,  rayon  and  mercerized, 
cotton  and  wool,  all  cotton.  Fast 
Colors.  Write  for  FREE  Indera 
Style  Folder  No.  342 

INDERA  MILLS  CO 

Winston-Salem, 

N.  C. 


DR.    WALTER'S 

latest  REDUCING  BRASSIERE 

gives  you  that  trim,  youthful  fig- 
ure that  the  new  styles  demand. 
3  to4inch  reduction.  Send  djo  oe 
bust  measure.  Price  only  <]>"•"•' 
HIP,  WAIST  and  ABDOMINAL 
REDUCER  for  men  and  women: 
takes  care  of  that  ugly  roll  above 
corset.  Laced  at  back.  tf  o  rn 
Price  only «pO«OW 

RELIEVE  swelling  and  varicose 


r.drvdu 


;yoi 


DR.  WALTER'S  famous  rubbe 
hoae.     Worn  next  to  the  I 
Send  ankle  and  calf  meas 

9  inch $5.00  pair 

14  inch $6.75  pair 

11  inch S3. 75 

(not  covering  foot) 
All     garments    are 
made   of   pure  gum 
rubber  —  flesh  cot 
ored. 


Dr.  Jeanne  P.H.  Waller,  389  Fifth  Ave., New  York 


PHOTO 

SNAPSHOT.  TINTYPE 

ENLARGED 


98 


SIZE  I6X  20  INCHES 
Same  price  for  full 
length  or  bast  form, 
groups,  lands  capes,  pet 
animals,  etc.,  or  en- 
largements of  anypart   

of  group  picture.  Safe  return  of  yonr 
photo  or  snapshot  guaranteed. 

SEND  NO  MONEY 

Just  mail  photo  or  snapshot  (any  size)^ 
and  within  s  week  you  will  receive  yourfl 
beautiful   life-like  enlargement,    stze\ 
16x20 in. .guaranteed  fadeless.  Paypost-v 
man  98c  plus  postage  or  send  $1.00  withv 
order  and  we  pay  postage  to  your  do__  _ 

Special  Free  Offer  S^w^d 

FREE  a  hand-tinted  miniature  reproduction  of  photo 
eent.  Take  advantage  now  of  this  amazing  offer — send 
your  photo    today.      UNITED   PORTRAIT    COMPANY, 


■  photo    today.     UNlTfcP   hukikaii    ^uiyikany,   im». 
900  West  Lake  Street.  Dept.  P-131,  Chicago,  Illinois 


How  I  Got  Rid  of 
Superfluous  Hair 

I  knoiu  how — for  I  had  become  utterly 
discouraged  with  a  heavy  growth  of  hair  on 
my  face,  lips,  arms,  etc.    Then  I  discovered 

a  simple,  painless,  harmless,  inexpensive  method.  It 
succeeded  with  me  and  thousands  of  others.  My  FREE 
Book  "Getting  Rid  of  every  Ugly,  Superfluous  Hair, ' 
explains  theories  and  tells  actual  success.  Mailed  in 
plain  sealed  envelope.  Also  trial  offer.  No  obligation. 
Address  Mile.  Annette  Lanzette,  109  W.  Austin 
Ave.,  Dept.  785,  Chicago. 


High  School  Course 
ihiVfears 


You  can  complete 

this   simplified   High 
School  Course  at  home 

quirementfl  for  entrance   to  college 

nH    thirty-nil    other    practical 

d    (or   it    TODAY. 

AMERICAN    SCHOOL 

D.pt.  M-B43.  Drexel  Ave.  A  58th  SI.        ©  A3  1923        CHICAGO 


Ide  of  two  y?ara.      Meet!  all 

and    the    leadinc    profesiona.     Thii 
eouraea  are  deacribed  in  our    Free    Bullet 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Il9 


Girls'  Problems 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  18 


a  striking  evening  coiffure  in  "The  Guards- 
man." It  is  typical  of  the  Empress  Eugenie 
period  which  is  influencing  the  new  hats  and 
mode  in  general.  Miss  Fontanne  has  long, 
luxurious  dark  hair  which  she  parts  in  the 
middle,  waves  close  to  her  face,  pulls  away  from 
the  ears  enough  to  show  the  tips,  and  knots  in 
an  unusually  large  knot  at  the  nape  of  the  neck. 
The  jeweled  comb  and  the  long  court  earrings 
emphasize  the  period  influence. 

Jeweled  ornaments  in  the  hair  for  evening 
are  becoming  more  and  more  important. 

AVERY  simple  but  charming  hairdress  for 
the  long  haired  young  girl  is  that  of  Lita 
Chevret's.  The  hair  is  waved  back  and  down 
over  the  ears  to  be  caught  in  a  knot  which 
follows  the  downward  sweep  of  the  neckline. 

You  must  not  overlook  the  fact  that  a  well 
groomed  head  requires  more  than  skilful 
dressing.  The  care  of  the  hair  is  exceedingly 
important.  Dry  scalp,  oily,  stringy  wisps  of 
hair,  and  a  dull,  lifeless  look  can  never  be 
covered  up  by  the  cleverest  arranging. 

To  have  glossy,  healthy  looking  hair  you 
have  to  allot  a  good  bit  of  time  every  week  to 
its  care.  First  of  all,  keep  your  hair  clean. 
A  good  shampoo  once  a  week  or  at  least  once 
every  two  weeks,  is  essential.  Brush  your  hair 
every  night. 


Massage  your  scalp  with  the  fingertips  so  a 
good  stimulation  is  promoted. 

Watch  your  diet!  Yes,  it  is  true,  healthy 
hair  reflects  a  healthy  condition  of  the  body 
which  in  turn  is  dependent  on  the  right  foods. 
Starches,  fats  and  oils  in  excess  are  more  than 
likely  to  cause  an  oily  condition  of  the  scalp. 

Marie  : 

The  daily  use  of  a  mild  astringent  will  help 
reduce  your  pores.  Apply  it  after  you  have 
cleansed  your  face.  Avoid  using  water  that  is 
too  hot.  The  large  pores  may  have  been 
aggravated  during  the  Summer  because  of  ex- 
cessive perspiration.  However,  a  good  face 
powder  will  not  encourage  them.  Be  sure  your 
skin  is  thoroughly  dry  when  applying  it.  If 
you  will  send  me  your  full  address  on  a  stamped , 
self-addressed  envelope,  I  will  send  my  leaflet 
on  the  prevention  and  cure  of  blackheads. 

Louise: 

You  must  make  a  definite  effort  to  overcome 
this  nervous  condition  you  mention.  You  are 
the  only  one  who  can  do  it. 

Learn  to  relax  first  of  all.  Before  you  start 
to  do  anything,  slow  yourself  down  to  an 
even  tempo.  Get  as  much  rest  as  you  can, 
especially  after  meals.  Try  a  simple  routine 
existence  for  about  a  month. 


Seymour  says  that  even  jewelry  is  delving  into  past  periods  for  inspira- 
tion in  design.  This  white  necklace  of  Karen  Morley's  just  reeks  of  your 
grandmother's  old  jewelry  box.     Nice  with  your  black  outfit,  too,  Karen 


Sophisticated! 
Then,  of  course,  you  need 
Ybry — the  lipstick  permanent 
that  makes  indifferent  lips 
different!  Ybry  never  betrays 
you  —  or  the  one  who  finds 
your  lips  adorable...  5  flat- 
tering shades.  Scented  with 
"world's  costliest  parfum." 

Featured  at  best  shops 


Ybry,  Inc.,  Dept.  P  8, 50  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City 

Please  send  trial  size  Ybry  lipstick — 10c  enclosed 

My  ha.r  is .My  eyes  are 

Name 

I'LEASK  CR1NT. 

Address...-. 


120 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


haves 

LOVELY 

LUSTROUS 

a/atoifd/ 


ETT- POPULAR  StAft 


Does  your  hair  ever  seem  dull  to  you— drab,  lifeless? 
Have  you  not  wished  for  something  that  would  keep 
it  Jooking  prettier— richer  in  tone? 

The  secret  lies  In  proper  shampooing!  Not  just 
soap-and-water  "washings",  but  regular  use  of  a  sham- 
poo that  really  beautifies— one  that  was  created  especially 
to  improve  dull  hair  and  add  that  little  something  extra 
so  often  lacking. 

If  you  really  wish  to  make  your  hair  bewitchingly 
lovely — just  one  Golden  Glint  Shampoo  will  show  you 
the  way!  No  other  shampoo,  anywhere,  like  it!  Does 
more  than  merely  cleanse.  It  gives  your  hair  a  "tiny- 
tint"—  a  wee  little  bit— not  much— hardly  perceptible. 
But  what  a  difference  it  makes  in  one's  appearance; 
that  exquisite  softness  of  tone  that  everyone  admires! 
Millions  use  regularly !  You'lllikeit!  There's  a  youth- 
imparting  touch  — a  beauty  specialist's  secret  in  its 
formula.    25c  at  your  dealers',  or  send  for  free  sample. 


FREE 


J.  W.  KOBI  CO.,     630  Rainier  Ave.,  Dept.  L 
Seattle,  Wash.,    •  •  •  •    Please  send  a  free  sample. 

Name 


Address . 
City 


.State. 


Color  of  my  hair  . 


No  young  husband  ever  realizes  how  thai 

horrible  lassitude,  those  splitting  headaches 

and  periodic  suffering  that  come  for  a  lew 

days  each  month,  drain  your  strength  and 

leave  you  so  terribly  tired. 

Every  druggist  sells  this  old,  reliable  remedy 

in  powders  or  tablets. 

KOHLER  MFG.  CO.    ♦   Baltimore,  Md. 

JSend  today   for 
"generous    sample. 


FREE- 


KO  H  LE  Ft 


ANTI  DOTE 


A  O/VCH 


Neuralgia,    Periodic    and    Other    Simple    Nerve    Pains 


Mercolized  Wax 
Keeps  Skin  Young 

Absorb  all  blemishes  and  discolorations  by  regularly  using 
pure  Mercolized  Wax.  Get  an  ounce,  and  use  as  directed. 
Fine,  almost  invisible  particles  of  aged  skin  fleck  off.  until  all 
defects,  such  as  pimples,  liver  spots,  tan,  freckles  and  large 
pores  have  disappeared.  Skin  is  beautifully  clear,  soft  and 
velvety,  and  face  looks  years  younger.  Mercolized  Wax 
brings  out  the  hidden  beauty.  To  quickly  reduce  wrink- 
les and  ether  age  lines,  use  this  face  lotion:  1  ounce  Pow- 
dered Saxolite  and  1  half  pint  witch  hazel.  At  drug  stores. 


Jean: 

Your  hair  is  naturally  more  brunette  than 
blonde  and  that  is  why  it  remains  light  for 
only  a  few  days  after  the  shampoo.  If  you  will 
send  me  a  stamped,  self-addressed  envelope,  I 
shall  be  glad  to  send  you  my  complexion  leaflet. 

Anna: 

An  excellent  exercise  for  improving  the  line 
of  the  legs  and  hips  is  as  follows: 

First,  stand  straight,  head  up,  chest  high, 
shoulders  back,  abdomen  flat,  feet  together 
and  hands  on  hips.  With  your  right  leg  sup- 
porting the  weight  of  the  body,  swing  the  left 
leg  forward  and  backward  like  the  pendulum 
of  a  clock,  going  as  far  as  possible  forward  and 
backward,  holding  the  left  leg  lightly  so  that 
it  can  swing  easily.  Do  this  about  a  dozen 
times  and  repeat  with  the  other  foot,  weight 
on  the  left  leg,  swinging  the  right. 

The  following  shades  should  be  becoming 


to  your  blue-eyed,  blonde-haired  type:  Yellow 
to  blend  with  the  tone  of  your  hair,  pink  and 
rose,  most  soft  shades  of  pale  green  as  well  as 
deeper  greens,  pale  and  deep  clear  blues, 
black  of  high  lustre,  white,  gray,  bronze  and 
nut  browns. 

Yvette  C: 

It  is  difficult  to  reduce  the  bust,  but  ex- 
ercise is  helpful.  The  following  exercises  are 
beneficial. 

Raise  the  arms  straight  in  front  of  you  to 
the  height  of  your  shoulders,  palms  inward. 
With  a  vigorous  motion,  throw  them  apart 
as  far  as  you  can.  Lower  them  to  your  sides 
for  a  moment.     Repeat  ten  times. 

Stretch  the  right  arm  straight  down  the 
thigh.  Swing  the  arm  to  the  right  and  up, 
then  down,  describing  a  complete  circle  in  front 
of  you.  Repeat  with  the  left  arm.  Follow  this 
by  describing  circles  with  both  arms. 


Big  Shot 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  56  ] 


amateur  to  be  coming  into  a  picture  cold?  "  No, 
Reynolds  wasn't  making  any  passes.  "  Maybe 
she'd  be  great  if  she'd  been  playing,  say  six 
months.  Maybe,  if  I  can  perform  a  miracle, 
she  will  be  anyway." 

"Hal,"  Sam  told  him  solemnly,  "she  will.  If 
I  didn't  know  you  were  a  miracle  man,  I'd 
never  given  you  the  picture  to  do." 

From  a  drawer  in  his  desk,  Sam  took  a  well- 
thumbed  sheaf  of  "stills"  of  Margaret  Sperry 
taken  in  the  shooting  of  the  picture.  This 
photograph,  he  thought,  looked  like  she  did  the 
night  of  his  dinner  party.  It  had  occurred  to 
him  that  it  might  be  well  to  give  her  an  idea  of 
the  social  side  of  Hollywood,  so  he  had  given  a 
little  dinner  party  for  her  in  his  Aladdin's 
palace.  Reynolds  and  Mrs.  Reynolds  were 
there. 

'"TOGETHER  they  had  leaned  on  the  railing 
-*-  and  gazed  at  the  stars  above  the  vague 
purple  hills;  at  the  jeweled  snakes  that  were 
Wilshire  and  Sunset  and  Santa  Monica  Boule- 
vards; at  the  varicolored  signs  glowing  like 
flowers  of  fire  in  the  blue-black  night. 

"It's  beautiful.  Oh,  it  is  beautiful!"  she 
sighed. 

"Yeh,"  Sam  agreed.  "Nice  place,  Holly- 
wood. The  pictures  made  it.  And  they'll 
make  you,  Miss  Sperry.  In  a  couple  of  years 
you  can  build  a  place  like  this." 

"Like  this?    Oh,  no." 

"What's  the  matter  with  it?  It  cost  me 
nearly  a  million." 

"Oh,  it  isn't  that.  It's  a  palace.  Like 
Aladdin's  in  '  The  Arabian  Nights.'  But  it's  so 
big.  I'd  be  lost  in  it.  And  lonesome.  Mr. 
Alwein,  I'm  afraid  you're  going  to  be  dis- 
appointed in  me.  I'm  not  at  all  suited  for 
pictures.  I  can't  act.  I  don't  care  about  it. 
And  I  think  you  are  paying  me  too  much 
money.  I'm  saving  all  of  it  because  I  think  I'll 
fail  and  if  I  do,  I  am  going  to  return  it." 

She  laughed  softly.  "Honestly,  even  if  I 
were  a  great  actress,  I  can't  imagine  being 
worth  the  salary  you're  paying  me.  I  can't 
imagine  anybody  being  worth  it." 

Sam  had  to  grab  the  railing  to  keep  from 
falling.  Could  you  imagine  anybody  in 
pictures  saving  their  salary  so  they  could 
return  it  if  their  stuff  didn't  go  over?  It  was 
one  for  the  book. 

"  What  do  you  want  me  to  do,  Miss  Sperry?  " 
he  asked  her,  curiously. 

"Oh,  I  don't  know.  I've  never  thought 
much  about  it.  I'm  afraid  I'd  like  to  do  just 
nothing.  I  think  I'd  like  to  have  a  nice  little 
home  with  some  roses  around  it.  It  would 
have  to  have  a  big  kitchen,  because  I  like  to 
cook.  It  would  be  near  the  water  because  I 
like  to  swim  and,  oh,  I  don't  know,  just  a  nice 
place  to  live  and  be  contented." 

"Alone?" 


She  looked  at  him  and  then  away. 
"Why,  no,"  she  said,  "not  alone.    I  suppose 
every  woman   dreams  of  a  man — somebody 


"Haven't  you  ever  found  anybody?" 

"No,"  she  said,  firmly  and  hastily.  "And 
I'm  not  looking  for  anybody.  All  this  is  away 
off  somewhere  in  the  future." 

He  stood  beside  her,  silent,  trying  to  under- 
stand a  lot  of  things  she  had  said  and  a  lot 
more  things  that  were  making  him  feel  the  way 
he  did  at  that  moment. 

He  knew  that  he  was  just  like  a  moving 
picture  audience  and  the  way  he  was  feeling 
just  then  made  him  realize  what  she  would  do 
to  those  same  audiences  when  she  appeared  on 
the  screen. 

"Listen,"  he  said  at  last,  "you  like  swim- 
min'.  Come  on  and  I'll  show  you  my  pool. 
It's  the  biggest  private  plunge  in  southern 
California." 

And  that  night,  after  she  and  the  other 
guests  had  gone,  he  realized  for  the  first  time 
that  his  palace  was  a  little  too  big.  And  also 
that  it  was  a  lonesome  pile  in  which  to  live 
alone. 

Next  day  a  buzzer  rang  on  his  desk  and  he 
piled  the  sheaf  of  photographs  into  the  drawer 
and  pressed  down  the  lever. 

"Yeh,"  he  said. 

"Mr.  Reynolds  is  waiting  for  you  in  your 
projection  room,  Mr.  Alwein,  with  the  rushes." 

npHEY  were  terrible! 

*  Seven  thousand  feet  of  Margaret  Sperry, 
or  an  animated  cartoon  of  Margaret  Sperry, 
speaking  in  a  raucous  voice;  making  wooden 
love  to  another  woman's  husband ;  confronting 
the  wronged  wife;  giving  up  the  man  she  was 
supposed  to  love;  making  preparations  to  kill 
herself,  with  all  the  despair  of  a  woman  in 
front  of  a  bargain  counter. 

They  couldn't  take  away  her  beauty.  That 
dominated  every  scene.  But  the  other  things 
made  it  ridiculous. 

Her  gestures  were  those  of  a  mannequin. 
You  could  almost  see  the  dangling  strings 
above  her. 

Her  voice  blared.  And  you  couldn't  under- 
stand her.  Why,  audiences  would  laugh  them- 
selves to  death! 

Silence  held  for  nearly  five  minutes  after  the 
lights  went  up,  and  you  could  have  cut  it — 
with  an  ice  pick.  Sam  stared  at  the  bare  white 
metal  screen.  Reynolds  looked  at  him,  grin- 
ning crookedly. 

"  Well?  "  he  said  at  last. 

"Well,"  Sam  admitted,  "it  ain't  so  hot,  is 
it?" 

"Hot?  It's  lousy!  What  are  you  going  to 
do  about  it?" 

"  Why,"  Sam  said,  surprised,  "go  on  makin' 
it.    We'll  release  it  as  a  program  picture." 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


121 


"Not  with  me  directing,"  Reynolds  flatly 
declared.  "Listen,  Sam.  That  girl  is  a  peach. 
She's  the  grandest  little  trouper  I  ever  worked 
with.  And,  believe  me,  I  worked  with  her. 
Hours  and  hours  and  hours.  She  freezes  up 
soon  as  the  lights  go  on  and  the  cameras  start 
to  grind.  Crawls  into  her  shell  and  pulls  it  in 
after  her.  You've  just  seen  her.  She  can't  act. 
She  knows  she  can't  act.  And  she  don't  want 
to  act!  I  can't  throw  my  reputation  away  on 
a  picture  like  this  is  going  to  be.    I'm  through  !" 

"   A  LL  right,  Mr.  Reynolds,"  Sam  snapped, 

■**and  his  face  was  the  imperturbable  mask 
of  the  Big  Shot.  "  But  I  say  she's  goin'  to  act. 
So  she's  goin'  to  act.  Your  resignation  is  ac- 
cepted. And  you  can  count  on  me  for  the  best 
references." 

Back  in  his  office,  Sam  took  out  the  photo- 
graphs again  and  looked  them  over  carefully. 
Where  did  that  subtle  something  disappear  to 
in  the  moving  pictures — that  something  so 
apparent  in  the  still  photographs  and  that 
made  her  real  self  walk  in  loveliness?  It  must 
be  Reynolds'  fault.  And  he  was  such  a  swell 
director,  too.  He  hated  to  lose  him.  But  he 
was  going  to  put  that  girl  over  if —  The  buzzer 
rang. 

"  Yeh,"  he  said. 

"Miss  Sperry  is  here,  Mr.  Alwein.  She  says 
she  must  see  you  immediately." 

"Show  her  in,"  he  said,  dusting  the  photo- 
graphs back  into  the  drawer. 

She  was  dressed  for  the  street,  in  something 
blue  which  brought  out  the  violet  of  her  eyes 
and  the  red  gold  of  her  thick,  lustrous  hair. 
When  his  eyes  had  fiercely  drunk  her  in,  he 
knew  that  hers  was  the  image  which  had  kept 


him  awake  and  restless  and  dissatisfied  in  his 
palace  in  Beverly  Hills. 

Suddenly,  he  knew  he  loved  her,  just  as  he 
knew  she  had  heard  of  Reynolds'  resignation 
and  was  bringing  back  her  unearned  salary  as 
she  said  she  would. 

He  held  up  his  hand. 

"I  know  what  you're  going  to  say.  Miss 
Sperry,"  he  said.  "But  don't  say  it.  When  I 
saw  your  picture  on  the  screen,  I  thought  you 
were  the  most  beautiful  woman  in  the  world. 
I  still  think  so.  I  thought  I  wanted  to  make 
you  a  great  actress.  I  just  found  out  different. 
I  don't  care  whether  you  ever  act.  Only  don't 
go  away.  If  you  stick  around  Hollywood  a 
little  while,  we'll  build  that  little  place  with  the 
roses  around  it.  And  meanwhile  we  could  live 
out  at  my  place.    I'd — " 

"Are  you  proposing  to  me — Sam?"  she 
asked  softly. 

"Yeh,"  he  admitted.  "I  know  it's  kinda 
sudden  but—" 

"Sam!    Don't  you  know  love  at  first  sight 
when  you  see  it?    I  did.    And  you  may  be  one 
of  Hollywood's  biggest  Big  Shots,  but  to  me  | 
you'll  always  be — " 

""TNUMB.  I  know.  Miss — Marg,  you  got  the 
-*-^swellest  lips  I  ever  saw.    Oh,  Baby,  you're 

sweet!" 

"And  Mr.  Reynolds  doesn't  resign?" 
"Resign?     Why,  he's  the  best  director  in 

Hollywood.    And  I'm  cablin'  my  best  woman 

star,    Miss   Henderson.      She's   in    Bermuda. 

Now,   what  kind  of  roses  are  you  goin'   to 

want — " 

And  you  think  "The  Arabian  Nights"  are 

the  bunk! 


SAKE 


One  of  the  weirdest  characters  that  ever  reached  the  screen.  Boris 
Karloff  plays  the  uncanny  role  of  a  man  made  up  from  separate  parts  of 
other  men,  a  creature  created  by  science,  the  image  of  a  human  being, 
the  nature  of  a  madman.  You  will  see  him  in  "Frankenstein"  in  pro- 
duction at  Universal  Studios.     Note  the  mechanical  knob  on  the  side  of 

the  neck 


You  must  try  this  powder  .  .  .  for 
Beauty's  sake!  You've  done  much  to 
improve  your  complexion  .  .  .  what 
woman  hasn't?  But  now  try  something 
new  .  .  .  that's  marvelously  simple,  and 
simply  marvelous. 

It's  the  face-powder  called  Luxor, 
that's  petal-smooth  because  it's  pure. 
It's  the  natural  protector  of  your  skin 
(called  Luxor),  that's  fine  and  soft,  and 
clinging  as  mist.  It's  made  in  the  Luxor 
laboratories,  of  purest  powder-ingredi- 
ents. And  when  it's  been  tinted  and 
sifted  and  scented,  it's  strained  through 
layers  of  fine-meshed  silk.  Luxor  blends 
with  your  own  coloring  and  brightens 
it,  it's  smooth  and  lovely  on  your  skin. 

Luxor  products  are  not  costly.  The 
face-powder  50c  a  box,  rouge  50c,  and 
lipstick  50c.  Luxor,  Ltd.,  1355  West 
31st  Street,  Chicago,  Illinois. 

Because    it's    pure,    because    it's    fine,    because 

you'll  like   it  .  .  .   send  for  some.  Ten  cents  for 

the    sample,    ten    days    to    enjoy    it  I      Check  — 

Rachel  □.   Flesh  □,   White  □■ 

PP-11-3 

Name 

A  ddress 

Luxor,  Ltd. 


122 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


A  R  M  A  N  D 
B  0  U  Q  U  E  T 

An  incomparable  face  powder! 
Freshens  and  smooths  the  skin 
the  moment  you  apply  it.  Fifty 
cents  is  so  little  to  pay  for  so 
much  beauty-benefit  I  Try 
this  powder  at  once.  Send  this 
FREE       COUPON 

ARMAND,  Des  Moines,  Iowa 

Please    send    me    free    sample    of    Armand 
Bouquet  —  the     incomparable     face     powder. 


A'am«_ 


PHOTO  P-ll-31 


Address^ 


In  Canada,  Armand  Ltd.,  St.  Thomas,  Ont. 


E APACHE  ? 

Instead  of  dangerous  heart  depres- 
sants take  safe,  mild  and  purely  vege- 
table NATURE'S  REMEDY  and  get 
rid  of  the  bowel  poisons  that  cause 
the  trouble.  Nothing  like  NR  for  bil- 
iousness, sick  headache  and  constipa- 
tion.  Acts  pleasantly.  Never  gripes. 
At  druggists — only  25c 
Make  the  test  tonight. 
FREE  Write  for  sample  of  NR  and  TUMS 
A.  H.  LEWIS  MEDICINE  CO.  ST.  LOUIS,  MO. 


TONIGHT 

TOMORROW    ALRIGHT 


TUMS  FOR   THE    TUMMY 


Tl)M$ 


How  To  Obtain 


A  Better  Looking  Nose 

Improve  Your  Personal  Appearance 

My  fret-  book  tells  you  how  I  guarantee 
to  improve  the  shape  of  your  nose  by 
rcmoldinp  the  cartilage  and  fleshy  parts, 
quickly,  safely,  and  painlessly,  or  refund 
your  money.  The  very  tine,  precise  ad- 
justments \vh  ch  only  my  new  patented 
Model  25  Nose  Shaper  possesses,  make 
results  satisfactory  and  lasting.  Worn 
night  or  day.  Over  100.000  users.  Send 
for  free  book  to 

M.TRILETY,  Pioneer  Nose  shaping  Specialist 
Depl.  281, Binghamlon.  N.  Y. 


a)IO*afi)gttl 

in  your  own  home.  Simple  easy  method 
successful  28  years.  No  medicine,  no  grease, 
nothing  to  wipe  off.  Results  where  needed- 
Arms,  Leirs  Neck,  Bosom,  ANY  part.  Send 
10c  for  Full  Information  and  a  Big  Four  Dram 
Box  (note  the  size)  of  my  PEERLESS  WONDER 
CREAM,  the  original  All  in-one  Cream,  Remember 
10c.  ROT  50c.  Wrao  coin  or  send  stamps,  but  do 
it  now.       MADAME  WILLIAMS,  CLK-4.  BUFFALO,  N.  V. 


He  Is  the  Real  Thing 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  57 


He  uses  the  safety  on  his  neck,  for  safety,  and 
the  other  on  his  face,  because  he  can  shave 
closer  with  it.  His  beard  is  so  strong  that 
unless  he  shaves  very  close,  he  still  looks  un- 
shaved.  He  trims  his  own  moustache  because 
he  can  keep  it  in  better  shape  that  way  than  a 
barber  can.  The  moustache  is  a  trick  affair — 
starting  down  vertically  from  each  nostril,  and 
then  breaking  at  a  right  angle  into  a  short 
horizontal  line. 

IVAN  is  a  bachelor.  He  lives  in  a  hotel — has 
one  room,  not  a  suite.  The  walls  of  it  are 
covered  almost  entirely  with  framed  photo- 
graphs of  friends,  acquaintances  and  relatives. 
Among  the  collection  is  a  portrait  of  the  former 
Czar  Nicholas. 

He  lives  in  a  hotel  room  because  there  is  no 
middle  course  for  him — it  must  be  either  a  one- 
room  arrangement,  or  a  whole  house  with  a 
complete  staff  of  servants — cook,  valet,  house- 
boys,  maids,  butler,  and  so  on.  He  wouldn't 
live  in  an  apartment  manned  by  but  one 
servant. 

He  always  has  flowers  in  his  rooms. 

Lebedeff  will  not  smoke  your  cigarettes.  He 
always  refuses  the  proffer  of  smokes,  and  uses 
his  own  instead.  He  has  them  especially  made 
from  a  personal  blend  of  Turkish  tobaccos. 
They  are  made  in  New  York  and  are  Russian 
style — with  the  long  tube  of  untobacco-filled 
paper  at  the  lip  end. 

When  he  gets  into  his  room,  he  discards  the 
severe  formality  of  his  clothes  for  comfort — 
pajamas  and  dressing-gown.  He  does  not  wear 
these  fancy  Russian  pajamas.  When  he  un- 
dresses, no  matter  how  late  or  tired,  he  always 
meticulously  hangs  up  or  lays  away  every 
article  of  clothing  he  takes  off.  He  doesn't 
throw  his  socks  and  beeveedees  around  the  bed- 
room, like  you  an'  me.  .  .  . 

He  takes  violent  fancies  to  certain  suits  he 
likes,  and  when  they  wear  out,  he  goes  to  great 
lengths  to  have  them  duplicated  as  to  cut  and 
material. 

His  full  name  is  Ivan  Basil  Lebedeff.  The 
"Basil"  was  his  father's  first  name. 

He  signs  only  Ivan  Lebedeff,  always  followed 
by  five  dots — a  series  of  three  and  another  pair, 

like  this:  "Ivan  Lebedeff "    The  dots 

represent,  he  explains,  an  "S"  and  an  "I,"  in 
some  manner.  The  "  S  "  and  "  I "  stand  for  his 
family  motto — Semper  Idem — Always  the 
Same. 

He  has  no  steady  girl  friends.    Oh,  once  in  a 


while  he  has  gone  out  several  times  in  succes- 
sion with  some  one  girl — Thelma  Todd,  for 
instance — but  now  he  is  rarely  seen  twice  with 
the  same  girl.  If  you  ask  him  why,  he  answers: 
"The  girls  are  the  answer  to  that." 

He  can  cook  Russian  food,  but  doesn't,  be- 
cause he  doesn't  care  much  for  Russian  food. 
He  attends  a  Russian  club  in  Hollywood 
once  in  a  while  because  "it  reminds  me  of 
Russia,  distantly."  Once  every  year — on 
Easter  night — he  attends  the  Russian  church 
in  Hollywood. 

He  is  six  feet,  one  inch  tall.  His  first  name 
is  correctly  pronounced  Ee-von,  but  because 
everybody  calls  him  Eye-van  in  Hollywood,  he 
has  adopted  that  pronunciation  himself. 

He  never  goes  to  bed  before  4  a.  m.,  when  not 
working.  He  never  arises  before  eleven.  He 
has  breakfast  served  in  his  room  always,  but 
not  in  bed.  When  he  rises,  he  brushes  his  teeth 
and  gets  under  a  cool  shower.  By  that  time, 
the  breakfast  he  has  ordered  has  been  served. 
He  dresses  after  breakfast.  He  does  not  sing 
in  the  bath  and  dislikes  hot  baths. 

He  uses  eau  dc  cologne  to  kill  the  smell  of 
fresh  laundry,  which  he  cannot  tolerate. 

His  chief  pastime  is  writing — letters  and 
stories.  He  carries  on  a  voluminous  corre- 
spondence with  fans,  and  writes  all  his  letters 
himself,  in  longhand.  His  choice  of  sports  is 
tennis.    Or  riding. 

He  says  he  has  no  superstitions,  but  insists 
he  has  a  sixth  sense — a  premonitory  sense.  He 
believes  he  can  foretell  things  that  are  about  to 
happen  to  him,  good  or  bad.  When  he  senses 
something  agreeable  about  to  happen,  he  allows 
himself  to  fall  into  a  highly  receptive  mood;  if 
he  has  a  hunch  of  something  unpleasant  to 
come,  he  comports  himself  with  particular  care 
and  guard. 

He  dislikes  highly  seasoned  food,  and  ordi- 
nary people.  He  likes  either  extremely  humble 
people,  or  extremely  highly  educated  folk. 
People  between  the  two  classifications  do  not 
particularly  interest  him.  He  detests  crowds, 
but  is  not  afraid  of  facing  them.  He  has  never 
experienced  stage  fright,  self-consciousness. 

HE  attends  every  theater  or  film  premiere  in 
or  near  Hollywood.  For  two  reasons — they 
give  him  a  chance  to  fix  a  date  to  repay  a  social 
obligation  which,  otherwise,  he  would  be  too 
lazy  to  do,  and  they  afford  him  double  enter- 
tainment because  he  can  watch  with  interest 
both  the  show  and  the  first-night  audience. 


Behind  the  scenes  when  a  pretty  movie  star  comes  to  town !    The  battery 

of  camera  boys  ready  to  shoot  (in  a  nice  way)  Marian  Marsh  as  she  arrives 

at  Grand  Central  Station,  New  York.     But  what  you  saw  in  the  papers 

was  a  pretty  picture  of  Marian,  and  flowers,  framed  in  the  car  window 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


I  2 


He  never  smokes  between  courses  of  a  meal. 
He  drinks  moderately  but  never  drinks  when 
alone.  He  drinks  very  little  "when  the  sun  can 
be  seen" — in  other  words,  confines  his  drinking 
virtually  entirely  to  the  night. 

He  has  a  nickname.  It  is  "Vanichka."  It 
means  "on  the  gay  side  of  life,  and  always  on 
the  go."  It  was  first  applied  to  him  when,  in 
old  St.  Petersburg,  a  well-known  gypsy  enter- 
tainer sang  a  toast  to  him  in  the  song  titled 
"Vanichka."  Ever  since  then,  the  name  has 
stuck  to  him,  and  his  intimates  call  him  neither 
Lebedeff,  nor  Ivan,  but  "Vanichka." 

He  had  one  other  nickname — the  purple-cap 
devil.  That  was  during  the  war,  and  it  arose 
from  the  color  of  his  uniform  cap,  and  his 
daring.  He  was  gassed  during  the  war,  and 
seriously  wounded  when  a  bullet  passed  en- 
tirely through  his  body. 

His  hands  and  fingernails  are  always  im- 
maculate. He  cannot  stand  the  sight  of  the 
tiniest  particle  of  dirt  under  his  fingernail.  Yet 
he  has  never  had  a  professional  manicure  in  his 
life.  He  manicures  his  own  fingernails  once  a 
week.  He  keeps  in  physical  fitness  by  taking 
Swedish  exercises  and  periodical  massages. 

T_JE  is  a  gentleman,  and  says  there  is  a  great 
■*■  -^-difference  between  gentlemen  and  noble- 
men. "In  Russia,  we  tell  a  gentleman  by  four 
things — first,   how  he  deals  with   women  in 


general;  second,  how  he  deals  with  women  who 
are  attached  to  his  friends;  third,  how  he 
drinks;  fourth,  how  he  gambles." 

Ivan  is  not  easily  offended.  He  is  not 
irritated  by  petty  attempts  to  irritate  him.  He 
believes  he  can  take  offense  only  from  his 
equals.  But  once  offended,  he  never  forgets 
nor  forgives.  He  does  not  think  much  of 
humans. 

He  says  he  has  seen  them,  in  his  lifetime,  do 
such  horrible  things  and  in  such  disgusting 
aspects  that  he  feels  it  is  too  much  to  give 
thought  to  people,  much  less  despise  them. 

He  wears  four  rings — three  on  one  finger,  a 
fourth  on  another.  One  of  the  three  is  a  very 
old  plain  gold  band  which  was  once  an  engage- 
ment ring  of  an  ancestor;  the  other  is  a  school 
ring;  the  third  is  a  band  of  steel  encased  in 
gold.  "It  represents  a  very  sacred  memory," 
he  says.  So  sacred  that  he  will  not  discuss  it 
further.  The  fourth  is  a  ruby,  heavily  mounted 
in  gold,  and  carved  on  the  under  side,  in  the 
likeness  of  Alexander  of  Macedonia.  The 
carving  was  done  nearly  four  hundred  years 
before  Christ.  Ivan's  uncle  gave  it  to  him 
many  years  ago. 

Ivan  does  not  care  what  people  think  or  say 
about  him.  He  pays  no  attention  to  criticisms, 
spoken  or  printed.  He  declares  people  flatter 
themselves  if  they  think  they're  getting  under 
his  skin. 


Must  They  Be  Selfish? 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  37 


mine.  I  grit  my  teeth  and  tried  to  do  it  better 
each  time  no  matter  what  happened." 

When  the  scene  was  finished  the  two  girls 
locked  arms  and  walked  from  the  set  together. 
A  tribute  to  both  women. 

Sometimes  I  think,  during  the  days  spent  in 
doing  nothing  but  watching  and  reporting  the 
happenings  of  these  famous  people,  that  pro- 
fessional selfishness  is  the  most  consciously 
developed  trait  in  the  business.  And  the  most 
necessary!  It  takes  so  little  to  lose  all  one  has 
gained ! 

CLARA  BOW  is  the  most  truly  unselfish  per- 
son I  know  in  the  profession.  And  look 
what  has  happened  to  Clara!  She  gave  Daisy 
De  Voe  an  unselfish  love.  I  know.  I  have 
been  in  Clara's  home  when  they  were  together. 
She  even  opened  her  pocket  book  to  her.  You 
know  how  Daisy  repaid  her.  When  I  visited 
Clara  in  the  hospital  five  days  after  her  latest 
breakdown,  I  told  her  Peggy  Shannon  looked 
like  a  comer.  "  She's  a  great  little  girl,  Clara, 
and  a  trouper.    She  may  usurp  your  place." 

Clara's  face  lit  with  a  joyful  smile. 
"Wouldn't  that  be  fine?  I'd  like  to  see  some 
other  girl  make  a  success  and  to  know  my 
illness  helped  her  to  do  it!  I  do  hope  'The 
Secret  Call'  is  a  good  picture.  And  I  hope 
Sylvia  Sidney  who  took  my  part  in  'City 
Streets'  is  a  success,  too.  That  would  make  it 
worthwhile,  wouldn't  it?" 

She  has  always  been  like  that.  And  look 
where  she  is  at  this  writing.  Living  on  a  ranch 
far  away  from  people;  disillusioned;  disgusted 
with  pictures.  Her  naturally  generous,  im- 
pulsive, unrestrained  nature  could  not  stand 
the  arduousness  of  developing  the  selfishness 
necessary  to  protect  her. 

There  is  an  interesting  battle  going  on  out  at 
Metro  these  days.  At  least,  people  call  it  a 
battle.  Friends  say  that  Joan  Crawford  holds 
Norma  Shearer  responsible  for  her  own  poor 
pictures.  It  is  well  known  that  Joan  has 
wanted  to  play  many  of  the  pictures  Norma 
has  drawn.    But  she  doesn't  blame  Norma. 

Norma  married  Irving  Thalberg,  the  produc- 
ing boss  of  the  lot;  Norma  secured  the  advan- 
tage through  that  marriage.  Joan's  picture, 
"Our  Dancing  Daughters,"  put  her  to  the  fore; 
Norma  immediately  secured  "The  Divorcee" 
which  Joan  wanted  to  play.  Oh,  how  she 
wanted  to  play  it! 


Norma  followed  with  "  Strangers  May  Kiss" 
and  Joan  countered  by  packing  the  box-office 
with  "Paid."  And  then  Joan  had  two  mediocre 
pictures,  "Laughing  Sinners"  and  "This 
Modern  Age."  To  her  intimates  and  some- 
times not  to  her  intimates,  Joan  blames  Norma 
Shearer  for  those  bad  pictures.  She  feels 
Norma  influenced  her  producer  husband  to 
give  her  bad  stories.  Joan  didn't  want  to  stay 
on  the  lot — we  wonder  if  Norma  wasn't  just 
shrewd  enough  to  keep  her?  After  all,  Joan 
Crawford  on  the  home  lot  can  be  watched  and 
kept  in  check;  Joan  Crawford  on  another  lot 
might  be  given  the  very  stories  which  would 
seriously  compete  with  Norma's. 

Ah,  it's  an  interesting  battle,  with  Joan 
making  the  mistake  of  all  impulsive  women 
who  have  trained  themselves  to  be  selfish 
rather  than  being  born  selfish;  no  one  could 
ever  persuade  Norma  to  say  an  unkind  word 
about  Joan.  She  is  too  subtle.  She  plays  a 
silent  game  of  poker.  And  yet — who  can  blame 
either  woman?  Had  they  met  in  any  other 
walk  of  life,  they  might  have  been  friends.  But 
meeting  on  the  same  lot  in  the  motion  picture 
profession,  they  have  fought  their  way  to  the 
top  by  slow,  painful  steps  which  have  been 
carpeted  with  bitter  disillusions.  They  cannot 
be  expected  to  love  one  another. 

I  have  often  wondered  how  long  the  deep 
friendship  of  Richard  Dix  and  William  LeBaron 
would  endure  the  onslaughts  of  this  profession. 
When  Richard  Dix  was  through  at  Paramount, 
dropped  from  their  roster,  Producer  LeBaron, 
a  personal  friend  of  years  standing,  held  the 
controlling  reins  at  Radio  Pictures  studio.  He 
sent  for  Dix  and  gave  him  a  new  opportunity. 
A  salary  and  a  commission.  Richard  told  me, 
himself,  that  this  commission  had  netted  him 
less  than  $2,000,  not  including  "Cimarron," 
on  which  the  profit  has  not  yet,  of  course, 
been  computed. 

"  r^IMARRON  "  re-made  Dix.    It  was  a  gif t- 
^-"'role  from  friend  producer.     No  one  else 
wanted  him  for  the  part.     Not  even  director 
Wesley  Ruggles. 

You  know  its  success.  Dix  thought  he 
should  be  worth  a  straight  salary  in  well- 
rounded  figures.  Friend  LeBaron  went  to  New 
York.  That  give  Richard  his  opportunity. 
Richard  has  often  said,  "If  Bill  LeBaron  asked 
me  to  work  for  fifty  dollars  a  week,  I'd  do  it."- 


H 


or  a 
Hobby 


If  You 
Want  a  fob 


ihatBays 
Well 


Wh&eYbu 

canbeYour 

OwnBoss 


andMepibur 
OvmHours 


learn 
Illustrating 


SEND  for  our  free  catalog,  "A 
Road  To  Bigger  Things." 
Learn  how  former  Federal  School 
graduates  now  earn  good  money. 
See  the  work  and  comments  of 
fifty  famous  artists  who  con- 
tribute to  the  Federal  Course  in 
Illustrating. 

Opportunities  in  drawing  have 
never  been  better.  The  Federal 
Course  includes  illustrating,  car- 
tooning, lettering,  window  card 
illustrating,  etc. 

If  you  like  to  draw,  train  your 
talent.  You  may  have  art  talent 
and  not  realize  it.  We  enclose  a 
test  chart  with  our  catalog.  It 
tests  your  ability  Free.  Fill  out 
the  coupon  now. 


C/of  Illustrating 


Federal  School  of  Illustrating, 
11101  Federal  Schools   Building, 
Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 

Name Age. 

Occupation 

Address 


I24 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


PERFECT  PURSE-SIZE  PERFUME  SPRAY 


The  Ronson  Perfu-Mist  saves  your  precious  per- 
fumi.  Just  press  the  tiny  plunger  and  out  floats 
a  fine  perfume-mist  ...  no  waste.  Flawless,  un- 
failing.   Quickly  adds    fresh    fragrance. 

New  models  in  chrom- 
ium and  beautifully 
colored  enamels.  Makes 
a  treasured  gift!  Write 
now  for  illustrated  cat- 
alog and  name  of  near- 
est dealer. 


ART  METAL  WORKS 

Inc. 

Aronson  Square 

Newark,    N.    J. 

in    Canada:    Dominion 

Art  Metal  Works,  Ltd. 

Toronto,  Ontario. 


O     N     S     O     N 

fENTED       OTHER    PATS.   PD'fi.      TRAOF     MARK*     RFC", 


)eAfii-Mut 


wT          «H 

f         THE 

Statuette  of 
GRETA 
GARBO 

Goddess  of  the  Screen — 
Exotic — Beautiful — in  a 
sculptured  portrait  bust  by 
Julian  Bowes,  Sculptor. 

The  statuette  is  a  replica 
of  the  sensational  life  size 
work  shown  in  exhibitions 
during  the  New  York  art 
season.  You  will  be  delighted 
with  its  loveliness.  Sold  only 

by  the  sculptor — each  head  directly 
from  his  own  hand.  A  genuine  work 
of  Art.   Beautiful  Ivory  finish,  6  in. 
high. 

OWES,  Sculptor 

♦          ♦            New  York  City 

IT-                        ^ 

/"         PRICE    $000 
POSTPAID    *— 

JULIAN  B 

35  West  14th  St. 

t R  Vz  Price 


Save  over 
7<; -Rock  Bottom 
Price  on  all  standard  office 
models— Underwood,  Reming- 
ton. Royal,  etc. -Easiest  terma  ever  of- 
fered. Also  Portables  at  reduced  prices. 

SEND  NO  MONEY 

AM  late   models  completely   refinishod^ 
like  brand  new.  Fully  Guaranteed. 
Sent  on    l'J  days'  trial.    Send    No 
Money.  Big  i  Tee  Catalog  shows  actu- 
al machines  in  full  colors.  Greatest  bar- 
gains ever  offered.  Send  at  once! ! 

..  ,  _  ..         _       -       231  W.   Monroe  St. 

International  Typewriter  Exch.,  oept  1152.  Chicago 

DANDRUFF 

,  LUCKY  TIGER,  world's  largest  — 
seller  at  Druggists,  Barbers,  Beauty 
Parlors.    Proven  Germicide.  Cor- 
J>W  rec*s  dandruff  and  scalp  irrita- 
&/.  i^'uk  tions.   Safe  for  adults  and  chil- 
dren.  Money-Back  Guarantee. 


LUCKY  TICER 


I 


Subscribe  to  Photoplay.  Use 
convenient  subscription  blank 
provided  on  page  127  this  issue. 


1 


The  personal  loyalty  speaking.  But  when 
Richard's  contract  came  up  for  discussion  the 
producer  was  away.  Dix  hired  a  manager  and 
let  him  talk  with  the  Radio  officials.  They 
could  not  get  together. 

LeBaron  returned  home.  "I'll  fix  it,"  he 
said  brightly.  "And  Mr.  Richard  Dix,  intimate 
friend,  refused  to  talk  to  Producer  LeBaron. 
Oh,  he'd  talk  on  tennis  or  golf  or  the  latest 
after  dinner  story.  But  when  it  came  to  busi- 
ness, he'd  look  a  bit  sheepish  and  say,  "You 
know,  Bill,  you  weren't  here  so  I  hired  a  man- 
ager. I  can't  talk  one  word.  He  won't  let 
me." 

""THE  I-must-protect-myself  professional  Dix 
-•-had  conquered  the  "  I'd-work-for-fif  ty- 
dollars-a-week-for-Bill "  personal  Dix  as  Holly- 
wood had  expected.  Bill  LeBaron  just  laughs. 
Richard  is  a  good  business  man,  he  says. 

On  the  same  lot,  Radio,  are  two  players  who 
have  made  their  success  teamed  together.  Yet 
there  are  no  more  selfish  professional  men  in 
Hollywood  than  Robert  Woolsey  and  Bert 
Wheeler.  In  fact,  I  expect  to  be  scolded 
roundly  by  Bert  for  putting  Robert's  name 
first  in  this  story!  You  see,  neither  one  can 
stand  to  see  the  other  win  the  most  simple 
laurels.  Bert  bought  a  bicycle;  Robert  came 
onto  the  lot  the  next  morning  with  a  motor- 
cycle. 

Then  Robert  bought  a  new  and  expensive 
car.  The  publicity  department  had  the  pur- 
chase noted  in  Los  Angeles  newspapers.  Three 
days  later,  Bert  drove  onto  the  lot  with  a  new 
car  of  the  same  make.  There  is  never  a  scene 
which  they  do  not  fight  to  take  from  one 
another. 

Yet,  when  Robert  Woolsey's  single  starring 
picture,  "  Everything's  Rosie,"  called  for  a 
baby,  the  first  thing  he  did  was  to  send  for  the 
Wheeler  youngster.  The  child  was  to  say  only 
two  words:  "Everything's  rosy."  She  tried  it 
again  and  again  yet  all  she  could  say  was: 
"Everything's  Bobby!"  The  tot  had  been  so 
trained  to  talk  about  Uncle  Bobby  that  she 
could  not  connect  even  one  line  for  Uncle 
Bobby's  picture  with  anything  but  his  name! 

Selfish  to  the  point  of  foolishness  profession- 


ally, the  first  person  Robert  Woolsey  thought 
of  was  Bert  Wheeler's  child;  the  one  word  Bert 
Wheeler's  child  could  not  forget,  because  of 
home-training,  was  the  name  of  Robert 
Woolsey!  Give  that  child  a  few  more  years 
(she  is  two  now)  and  she  will  learn! 

Mitzi  Green  is  one  of  the  most  self -protecting 
young  ladies  in  business.  When  she  was  play- 
ing with  Lilyan  Tashman  in  "  Finn  and 
Hattie,"  Mitzi  stole  so  many  scenes  that  Lilyan 
finally  took  her  by  the  hand  and  said  cajol- 
ingly,  "Mitzi,  please  give  Aunt  Lil  a  chance." 
Mitzi  smiled  'sweetly,  went  back  into  the  scene 
clinging  to  "Aunt  Lil's"  hand  and  promptly 
used  every  device  known  to  actors  to  steal  the 
scene  all  over. 

Hollywood  does  not  blame  its  professionally 
selfish  people.  It  understands  them.  They 
smile — I  might  almost  say  they  smile  fondly — 
at  the  Norma  Shearer,  Joan  Crawford  situa- 
tion. They  do  not  take  sides;  they  merely 
watch  the  battle  and  bet  on  the  winner.  But 
the  personally  selfish  ones— oh,  those  are  the 
people  who  are  criticized  by  their  brothers. 

For  Hollywood  will  not  forgive  petty  selfish- 
ness which  means  no  advancements. 

We  could  go  on  and  on,  as  usual,  but  we  have 
tried  to  show  you  enough  examples  to  illustrate 
our  premise:  Selfishness  is  a  necessity  of  our 
personality-commodity  business. 

A  ND  there's  a  sad  side  to  that  premise !  We, 
-*Mn  Hollywood,  are  called  hard-boiled.  We 
are.  All  selfish  people  are  hard ;  the  two  come 
together. 

If  we  fight  long  enough  for  self- — if  we  pro- 
tect ourselves  as  we  must  for  success — we 
cannot  but  influence  our  inner  characters. 
We  cannot  be  selfish  in  business  for  long  years 
and  remain  unselfish  in  person. 

Ah,  the  big  successes — the  Gloria  Swansons 
with  three  husbands  sacrificed  to  a  career;  the 
Mary  Pickfords,  Norma  Shearers,  Constance 
Bennetts,  Greta  Garbos,  the  big  names  of  the 
industry — have  sacrificed  everything  to  a  de- 
velopment of  self — a  personality  which  brings 
them  fabulous  sums  of  money. 

Yet,  has  the  selfishness  really  paid?  We 
wonder! 


"Please  give  Aunt  Lil  a  chance  in  this  scene,"  Lil  Tashman  begged  Mitzi 

Green  in  "Finn  and  Hattie."     Mitzi  smiled  sweetly,  went  back  into  the 

scene  and  promptly  proceeded  to  steal  it 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Addresses  of  the  Stars 


Hollywood,  Calif. 


Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Adrienne  Ames 
Richard  Arlen 
George  Bancroft 
Carman  Barnes 
Eleanor  Boardman 
William  Boyd 
John  Breedon 
Chas.  D.  Brown 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Juliette  Compton 
Jackie  Coogan 
Robert  Coogan 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marie ne  Dietrich 
Claire  Dodd 
Tom  Douglas 
Junior  Durkin 
Stuart  Erwin 
Skeets  Gallagher 
Marjorie  Gateson 
Wynne  Gibson 
Mitzi  Green 


Phillips  Holmes 
Lenita  Lane 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Frances  Moffuit 
Rosita  Moreno 
Jack  Oakie 
Vivienne  Osborne 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
Irving  Pichel 
Charles  Rogers 
Jackie  Searl 
Peggy  Shannon 
Sylvia  Sidney 
Lilyan  Tashman 
Kent  Taylor 
Regis  Toomey 
Dorothy  Tree 
Allen  Vincent 
Charles  Trowbridge 
Anna  May  Wong 
Judith  Wood 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Hardie  Albright 
John  Arledge 
Warner  Baxter 
Joan  Bennett 
El  Brendel 
Joan  Castle 
Paul  Cavanagh 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier.  Sr. 
Roxanne  Curtis 
Jesse  DeVorska 
Donald  Dillaway 
Allan  Dinehart 
James  Dunn 
Sally  Eilers 
Charles  Farrell 
Janet  Gay  nor 
Minna  Gombell 
William  Holden 
Olin  Howland 
Warren  Hymer 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
James  Kirkwood 
Elissa  Landi 
Nora  Lane 
Edmund  Lowe 
Myrna  Loy 
Jeanette  MacDonald 
Kenneth  MacKenna 


Mae  Marsh 
Victor  McLaglen 
Thomas  Meighan 
Una  Merkel 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Ralph  Morgan 
Greta  Nissen 
George  O'Brien 
Sally  O'Neil 
Lawrence  O'Sullivan 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Cecelia  Parker 
William  Pawley 
Yvonne  Pelletier 
Gaylord  Pendleton 
Howard  Phillips 
Terrance  Ray 
Manva  Roberti 
Will  Rogers 
Peggy  Ross 
Rosalie  Roy 
George  E.  Stone 
James  Todd 
Spencer  Tracy 
Linda  Watkins 
Marjorie  White 
Charles  Williams 
Elda  Vokel 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Robert  Ames 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Evelyn  Brent 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Lita  Chevret 
Ricardo  Cortez 
Lily  Damita 
John  Darrow 
Claudia  Dell 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Jill  Esmond 
Noel  Francis 
Roberta  Gale 
Morgan  Galloway 
John  Halliday 
Hugh  Herbert 
Leyland  Hodgson 
Rochelle  Hudson 


Kitty  Kelly 
Geoffrey  Kerr 
Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Eric  Linden 
Phillips  "Seth  Parker' 

Lord 
Joel  McCrea 
Addic  McPhail 
Ken  Murray 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Lawrence  Olivier 
William  Post 
Lowell  Sherman 
Ned  Sparks 
Ruth  Weston 
Bert  Wheeler 
Hope  Williams 
Robert  Woolsey 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ina  Claire 
Ronald  Colman 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 


Al  Jolson 
Evelyn  Laye 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St 


Eddie  Buzzell 
Richard  Cromwell 
Constance  Cummings 
Susan  Fleming 
Ralph  Graves 


Jack  Holt 
Buck  Jones 
Loritta  Sayers 
Barbara  Stanwyck 
John  Wayne 


Universal  City,  Calif. 

Universal  Studios 


Lew  Ay  res 
John  Boles 
Lucile  Browne 
Bette  Davis 
Sidney  Fox 
Rose  Hobart 


Bela  Lugosi 
Slim  Summerville 
Sally  Sweet 
Genevieve  Tobin 
Lois  Wilson 


Culver  City,  Calif. 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


Dorothy  Appleby 
Nils  Asthcr 
William  BakeweO 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Charles  Bickford 
Edwina  Booth 
Herbert  Braggiotti 
John  Mack  Brown 
Jackie  Cooper 
Joan  Crawford 
Janet  Currie 
Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny 
Kent  Douglass 
Marie  Dressier 
Jimmy  Durante 
Cliff  Edwards 
Phyllis  Elgar 
Madge  Evans 
Clark  Gable 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
Charlotte  Greenwood 
William  Haines 
Neil  Hamilton 
Helen  Hayes 
Jean  Hersholt 
Hedda  Hopper 
Leslie  Howard 


Leila  Hyams 
Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Marjorie  King 
Alfred  Lunt  and 
Lynn  Fontanne 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphc  Mcnjou 
John  Miljan 
Rav  Milland 
Robert  Montgomery 
Polly  Moran 
Karen  Morley 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Ivor  Novello 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita  Page 
Marie  Prevost 
Irene  Purcell 
Marjorie  Rambcau 
Ruth  Selwyrj 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
C.  Aubrey  Smith 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Lester  Vail 
Robert  Young 


RKO-Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  Gleason 
Ann  Harding 
June  MacCloy 


Pola  Negri 
Mary  Nolan 
Eddie  Quillan 
Marion  Shilling 
Helen  Twelvetrees 
Robert  Williams 


Hal  Roach  Studios 

Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 
Thelma  Todd 


Burbank,  Calif. 

Warners-First  National  Studios 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrvmore 
Richard  Barthclmess 
Joan  Blondell 
Lilian  Bond 
Joe  E.  Brown 
Anthony  Bushell 
Charles  Butterworth 
James  Cagney 
Donald  Cook 
Bebe  Daniels 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Kav  Francis 
Ruth  Hall 
Ralf  Harolde 
Walter  Huston 


Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
Dorothy  Mackaill 
Mae  Madison 
David  Manners 
Marian  Marsh 
Marilyn  Miller 
Dorothy  Peterson 
William  Powell 
James  Rennie 
Edward  G.  Robinson 
Loretta  Young 
Polly  Walters 
Warren  William 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 

Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Tallulah  Bankhead 
George  Barbier 
Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Claudette  Colbert 
Tamara  Geva 


Miriam  Hopkins 
Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Gene  Raymond 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrett 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire,  1212  Gower  St. 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd.  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  De  Lacy,  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Pat  O'Malley.  1832  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St. 
Ruth  Roland,  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor.  5254  Los  Feliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray,  22  E.  60th  St.,  New  York 

William  S.  Hart,  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsy    Ruth    Miller,   808    Crescent   Drive,   Beverly 

Hills,  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 


I25 

"90% 

of  Skin  Troubles  Re- 
sult   from     Inferior 


MAKE-UP 


// 


warns 
Helena  Rubinstein 

AS  a  beauty  specialist,  who  has 
1~\  treated  all  types  of  skins  all 
over  the  world,  I  have  traced 
numerous  cases  of  Blackheads, 
Eruptions,  Coarse  Pores  and  Dry 
Shrivelled  Skin,  to  inferior  make- 
up  These  tragic  facts  impelled 

me  to  devote  as  deep  study  to 
make-up  as  to  my  scientific  beauty 
builders.  You  will  find  my  pow- 
ders, rouges,  lipsticks  and  eye 
make-up,  not  only  flattering  but 
beneficial  to  your  skin." 

The  Key  to  a  Perfect  Make-up 

Instead  of  ordinary  cleansing  creams, 
use  PASTEURIZED  FACE  CREAM 
a  complete  beauty  treatment  in  itself. 
Besides  cleansing,  it  cools,  soothes 
the  skin  and  molds  the  contour.  A 
perfect  make-up  foundation     .      i.oo 

PASTEURIZED  BLEACHING 
CREAM— bleaches  as  it  cleanses  i  .00 
Wash  away  blackheads,  refine  the 
pores,  correct  "shine"  with  VALAZE 
BLACKHEAD  AND  OPEN  PORE 
PASTE 1.00 

VALAZE  POWDER— most  flattering 
and  adherent.  Tints  for  every  type. 
Textures  for  Normal,  Oily  and  Dry 
Skins     ....      1.00,  1.50,  3.00 

VALAZE  ROUGES  (in  cream  or 
compact  form)  are  the  smartest,  most 
flattering  in  the  world.  To  the  famed 
RED  RASPBERRY  (medium)  and 
RED  GERANIUM  (light),  Helena 
Rubinstein  now  adds  the  NEW  RED 
CORAL  —  a  glamorous,  youthful  tone 
becoming  to  all  types — all  ages     1.00 

VALAZE  LIPSTICKS  are  as  soothing 
and  indelible  as  they  are  ravishing  in 
color.  They  harmonize  perfectly  with 
valaze  rouges.  They  complement  every 
type  and  every  costume  1.00, 1.25, 2.00 

PERSIAN  EYEBLACK  (Super-Mas- 
cara) Stays  on — does  not  make  lashes 
stiff  or  britde     ....     1.00,  1.50 

VALAZE  EYELASH  GROWER  AND 
DARKENER 1.00 

WATER  LILY  DEODORANT 
TALC 1.00 

M  leading  Department  and  Drug  Stores 


hel 


binstein 


ena  ru. 

8  East  57th  St.,  N.  Y. 

PARIS LONDON 


126 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


50  cents  a  box 


hade 
In  LABLACHE 
Face  Powder 

All  of  the  exquisite  charm  of 
LABLACHE,  known  for  over 
50  years  as  the 

FACE   POWDER  of  QUALITY 

in  a  shade  that  blends  with  any 
complexion. 

Ask  your  Druggist  for  "MARGIE" 
the  new  all-complexion  powder, 
or  send  to  us  for  sample  (no 
charge.) 

BEN  LEVY  CO. 
125  Kingston  Street 
BOSTON,    MASS. 


BLONDES 

Why  wait  for  leap  year? 

GET  your  man  this  year!  It's  easy  the  Blondex 
way.  This  special  shampoo  gives  blonde  hair 
radiant  appeal  no  man  can  resist!  It  not  only 
prevents  darkening — but  safely  brings  back 
natural  golden  color  to  dull,  faded  light  hair. 
Adds  new  gloss  and  lustre,  too.  Not  a  dye.  No 
harmful  chemicals.  Good  for  scalp.  Let  Blondex 
bring  out  the  gleaming  lights  now  hidden  in 
your  hair.  At  all  drug  and  department  stores. 


f&>8 


Send  for  your  copy  now. 

&i&&C7i  Inc. 

1101  Parsons  Street,  KALAMAZOO,  MICH. 


a    %&{\1kl VV   FOR  your   k 

Q     lfl\#r^l!<  M.      SPARE  TIME    5 

An  opportunity  to  make  S30  to  S50  a  week  by  P 

agents  during  their  spare  time,  selling  beautiful  P 

Christmas  greeting  cards.     Easy  selling,  no  ex-  £ 

perience  necessary.    Samples  sent  free  on  request,  f5 

Write  today  for  full  particulars.  K 

DORALINC.  0 

327  Washington  Street  BUFFALO,  N.  Y.      5 

Natural'LikerX[ftf.€} 

Learn  toset  deep,  long-  ^-•^L>'  -M-w-^-^k^^y 
lasting  CURLS  with  fingers,  combs  or  clips.  It's  easy 
with  Penny  Waves.  Free  Illustrated  CTDFF 
Booklet  shows  how.  Send  2c  postage.  ilfbL 
EUGENE  PENNY.  117  N.Wells,  Dept. 70.  Chicago 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


"BAD  COMPANY"— RKO-Pathe.— From  the 
story  by  Jack  Lait.  Scenario  by  Thomas  Bucking- 
ham and  Tay  Garnett.  Directed  by  Tay  Garnett. 
The  cast:  Helen,  Helen  Twelvetrees;  Goldie  Gorio, 
Ricardo  Cortez;  Sieve,  John  Garrick;  Butler,  Paul 
Hurst;  King,  Frank  Conroy;  Doc,  Frank  McHugh; 
Barnes,  Kenneth  Thomson;  Dummy,  Arthur  Stone; 
Emma,  Emma  Dunn;  Henry,  William  V.  Mong; 
Monk,  Wade  Boteler;  Pearson,  Al  Herman;  McBaine, 
Harry  Carey;  Buff,  Edgar  Kennedy;  Elevator  Boy, 
Mike  Donlin;  Secretary,  Gladden  James;  Prof,  Robert 
Keith;  Bert,  George  Byron;  Conway, Harold  Goodwin. 

"CISCO  KID,  THE"— Fox.— From  the  screen 
play  by  Al  Colin.  Directed  by  Irving  Cummings. 
The  cast:  The  Cisco  Kid,  Warner  Baxter;  Mickey 
Dunn,  Edmund  Lowe;  Carmencita,  Conchita  Monte- 
negro; Sally  Benton,  Nora  Lane;  Sheriff  Tex  Ransom, 
Frederick  Burt;  Enos  Hankms,  Willard  Robertson; 
Dixon,  James  Bradbury,  Jr.;  Bouse,  Jack  Dillon; 
Lopez,  Charles  Stevens;  Gordito.  Chris  Martin;  Billy, 
Douglas  Haig;  Annie,  Marilyn  Knowlden. 

"CONSOLATION  MARRIAGE"— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— From  the  story  by  Bill  Cunningham. 
Adapted  by  Humphrey  Pearson.  Directed  by  Paul 
Sloane.  The  cast:  Mary,  Irene  Dunne;  Steve,  Pat 
O'Brien;  Jeff,  John  Halliday;  The  Colonel,  Matt 
Moore;  Aubrey,  Lester  Vail;  Elaine,  Myrna  Loy. 

"DANGEROUS  AFFAIR,  A"  —  Columbia.  — 
From  the  story  by  Howard  J.  Green.  Adapted  by 
Howard  J.  Green.  Directed  by  Edward  J.  Sedgwick. 
The  cast:  Lieutenant  McHenry,  Jack  Holt;  IVally 
Cook,  Ralph  Graves;  Marjory  Randolph,  Sally  Blane; 
Florence,  Susan  Fleming;  Letly,  Blanche  Frederici; 
Nelson,  Edward  Brophy;  City  Editor,  DeWitt  Jen- 
nings; Harvey,  Tyler  Brooks;  Lionel,  William  V. 
Mong;  Tom  Randolph,  Fredric  Santley;  Plunkett, 
Sidney  Bracy;  Tapper,  Charles  Middleton;  Peggy, 
Ester  Muir. 

"DFVOTION"— RKO-Pathe.— From  the  novel 
"A  Little  Flat  in  the  Temple"  by  Pamela  Wynne. 
Scenario  by  Graham  John  and  Horace  Jackson. 
Directed  by  Robert  Milton.  The  cast:  Shirley,  Ann 
Harding;  Trent,  Leslie  Howard;  Harrington,  Robert 
Williams;  Mr.  Mortimer,  O.  P.  Heggie;  Mrs.  Mortimer, 
Louise  Closser  Hale;  Sergeant  Coggins,  Dudley 
Digges;  Mrs.  Coggins,  Allison  Skipworth;  Pansie, 
Doris  Lloyd;  Margaret,  Ruth  Weston;  Marjorie,  Joan 
Carr;  Elsie,  Joyce  Coad;  Derek,  Douglas  Scott; 
Bridget,  Tempe  Pigott;  Gas  Inspector,  Forrester 
Harvey;  Maid,  Margaret  Daily;  Young  Man,  Pat 
Somerset;  Mrs.  Trent,  Olive  Tell;  Junior  Partner, 
Claude  King;  Telegraph  Boy,  Donald  Stewart; 
Reporter,  Cyril  Delevante. 


"DREYFUSCASE.THE"— Columbia.— Adapted 
from  the  play  by  Herzog  and  Rehfisch.  Directed  by 
F.  W.  Kraemer  and  Milton  Rosmer.  The  cast:  Capt. 
Alfred  Dreyfus,  Cedric  Hardwicke;  Lucie  Dreyfus, 
Beatrix  Thomson;  Colonel  Picquart,  Charles  Carson; 
Emile  Zola,  George  Merritt;  Labori,  Sam  Livesey; 
Major  Esterhazy.  Garry  Marsh;  Colonel  Henry,  Henry 
Caine;  Major  Paly  du  Clam,  George  Skillan;  Clem- 
enceau,  Leonard  Shepherd;  General  Mercier,  Arthur 
Hardy;  Boisdeffre,  Kay  Souper;  Mathieu  Dreyfus,  A. 
Sarner;  Demanche,  Frederick  Leister;  Pellieux,  Fisher 
White;  Dubois,  A.  Sofaer;  Berlillon,  Leslie  Frith; 
Marguerite,  Violet  Howard;  President,  Zola  Trial. 
Reginald  Dance;  Cavaignac,  George  Zucco;  Laulh, 
Nigel  Barrie;  President,  Dreyfus  Court-Martial,  Randle 
Ayrton. 

"FIFTY  FATHOMS  DEEP"  —  Columbia.  — 
From  the  screen  play  by  Dorothy  Howell.  Directed 
by  Roy  William  Neill.  The  cast:  Tim,  Jack  Holt 
Myra,  Loretta  Savers;  Pinky,  Richard  Cromwell 
Florine,  Mary  Doran;  Conchita,  Christina  Montt 
Mate,  Wallace  MacDonald;  Brewster,  Henry  Mow- 
bray. 

"GET  -  RICH"-  QUICK  WALLINGFORD "— 
M-G-M. — From  the  novel  by  George  Randolph 
Chester.  Directed  by  Sam  Wood.  The  cast:  Walling- 
ford.  William  Haines;  Blackie  Daw,  Ernest  Torrence; 
Dorothy,  Leila  Hyams;  Schnozzle,  James  Durante; 
McGonigal,  Guy  Kibbee;  Henry  Harper,  Hale  Hamil- 
ton; Mr.  Tuttle,  Rohert  McWade;  Mrs.  Laylon,  Clara 
Blandick;  Mr.  Layton,  Walter  Walker;  Henry,  Henry 
Armetta;  Mrs.  Dalrymple,  Lucy  Beaumont. 

"HEAVEN  ON  EARTH  "—Universal.— From 
the  story  "Mississippi"  by  Ben  Lucien  Burman. 
Adapted  by  Ray  Doyle.  Directed  by  Russell  Mack. 
The  cast:  Stales,  Lew  Ayres;  Towhead,  Anita  Louise; 
Captain  Lilly,  Harry  Beresford;  Vergie,  Elizabeth 
Patterson;  Merchant,  Slim  Summerville;  Butter  Eye, 
Alf  P.  James;  Preacher  Daniel,  Harlan  Knight;  Dr. 
Boax,  Jack  Duffy;  Chicken  Sam,  Peter  Richmond; 
Marty,  Robert  Burns;  Andy,  Lew  Kelly;  Buffalo, 
Jules  Cowles;  Maggie,  Louise  Emmons;  Voodoo  Sue, 
Louise  Beavers;  The  Dog,  Lew  Ayres'  mongrel  "Fido." 

"HOMICIDE  SQUAD"— Universal.— From  the 
story  by  Henry  La  Cossitt.  Adapted  by  John 
Thomas  Neville.  Directed  by  George  Melford.  The 
cast:  Louie,  Leo  Carrillo;  Captain  Buckley,  Noah 
Beery;  Millie,  Mary  Brian;  Joe,  Russell  Gleason; 
Proctor,  Pat  O'Malley.  Hugo,  J.  Carroll  Naish. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  128  ] 


Hey,  you  kids!  Get  away  from  that  sound  recording  apparatus!  Ding- 
bust  these  Our  Gang  youngsters — always  messing  into  things.  Here, 
between  scenes  for  a  new  comedy,  they  are  recording  a  few  piratical  yells 

and  barks 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


127 


1 

i 
i 

i 


9 


t 


C 
i 

i'. 


i 


I 


1 


i 

i 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Crenel   Jrle   to  Friends  (or  V^nristmas 

AM  not  just  a  little  card  or  present  that  turns  green  with  the  spring.  You  can't 
lose  me  because  on  the  15th  of  every  month  I  go  to  your  friend's  house  and  s?y,  kTm 
here  again,  because  your  friend  wants  you  to  remember  throughout  the  year  the 
thoughts  of  Christmas  time.  I  know  you'll  like  me  because  everybody  does.  I 
won't  allow  any  season  to  snuff  me  out.    I  am  Santa  Claus  throughout  the  year." 

You  cannot  send  a  more  economical  or  pleasing  gift.  Just  make  a  list  of  your  friends,  attach 
them  to  this  coupon  and  send  them  in  right  away.  You  can  send  one  or  twenty.  There's 
no  limit.    Get  your  Christmas  Shopping  off  your  mind. 


2 


Send  $2.50  for  1  year. 

Send    4.00  for  2  years. 

Send    4.00  for  2  1-year  subscriptions. 

Send    2.00  for  each  extra  Gift  Subscription. 

For  Foreign  and  Canada  send  $1.00  in  addition  to  above  for  each  yearly  subscription 

This  Special  Gift  Offer  Represents  a  Saving  of  $1.00  on  Every  Two  One  Year  Subscriptions  You  Order 


ONE  YEAR 
subscriptions 
to  PHOTOPLAY 
for  only 


M00 


Beautiful  Gift 

Announcement  Card     | 

with  each  subscription  you 
will  receive  the  beautiful  card 
shown  above  to  sign  and  I 
mail,  or  if  you  prefer  hand 
to  your  friend  Christmas 
Morning        «°         «*»        * 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

I  want  to  take  advantage  of  your  offer  and  enclose  $. 
the  following  subscriptions: 


1 


to  pay  for 

□  1  year. 
C  2  years. 


Friend's  Name . 

Address 

City 


D  New. 


D  Renewal. 


. State . 


□  1  year. 
D  2  years. 


My  Name. 
Address  .  . 
City 


L. 


□  New.         □  Renewal, 
Use  regular  stationery  to  list  additional  subscriptions. 


.State 


128 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


Join  ! 

AMERICAN  RED  CROSS 


21 


Madison 

Overlooking  Ocean  at  Illinois  Ave. 

ATLANTIC  CITY,  N.  J. 

Enjoy  late  Autumn  and  early 
Winter  ideally  .  .  .  'mid  an  at- 
mosphere of  Colonial  charm  and  quiet  seclusion  in 
the  smartest,  liveliest  part  of  the  resort. 

Attractive  Fall  Rates  on  American  and  Euro- 
pean Plans.     Eugene  C   Fetter,  Mng.  Dir. 


FETTER       &       HOLLINGER, 


N  C 


"moles 


HOW  TO  REMOVE  THEM 

A  simple,  home  treatment — 25 
years  success  in  my  practice. 
Moles  dry  up  and   drop  off. 
Write  for  free  Booklet. 
WM.  DAVIS,  M.D.,  124-D  Grow  Ave,  Woodbridge.  N.J. 


Old  Money  Wanted 


Will  pay 
Fifty 
Dollars 

for  nickel  of  1913  with  Liberty  head,  (no  Buffalo).    We 
pay  cash  premiums  for  all  rare  coins.    Send  4c  for  Large 
Coin  Folder.    May  mean  much  profit  to  you. 
NUMISMATIC   CO.,   Dept.  75,  Ft.  Worth,  Tex. 


SHAPED 
yo*rNOSE 


Anita  Nose'  Adjuster 
shapes  flesh  and  car- 
tilage—quickly, safely, 
painlessly,  while  you 
sleep  or  work.  Lasting 
results.  Doctors  praise 
it.  Gold  Medal  Winner. 
87,000  users.  Write 
for  FREE  BOOKLET. 
ANITA  INSTITUTE.  M-28,  Anita  Bldg.,  Newark,  N.  J. 


30  DAYS 

HOME   TRIAL 


AGENTS!  BIG  PROFITS 


SELL  THE  NEW  BOOK  EVERY  WOMAN  WANTS 

"How  to  Be  a  Successful  Hostess— What  Every  Woman 
Should    Know    About    Entertaining    end    Etiquette." 

Retail*  'or  $2.     Sand  SI  for  Your  Copy. 

225  Pages.  Tells  how  lo  be  correct  and  popular,  how  to  be 
an  interesting  conversationalist  and  how  lo  entertain  friends 
the  home.    Should    be  in  every   household.    Excellent 


— f*>  P5  Christmas   Rift   to   relatives  and   friends.    We   also    want 

.■—   .:*-  L    .««.*.   t.  ,.n  „..,  K.,..t.f..l   Plinilfflic  rarrU    Senrt   Sfk-   f . >r 


_—  -iC'-  »  boned  i 


;  which  retails  at  $1  00. 


GAINSBOROUGH  CO.  ^S^KKSLSTCF*: 

fltviene  s*ss  TKeatre 

JL  and  CULTURAL  subjects  for  perwir.nl  development  —  State.  Tench- 
nic.  Direetin*-Drama,  Stare  and  Concert  Daneinc,  Vocal.  Screen,  Mu- 
■ical  Corned v,  Elocution.  Stock  Theatre  and  platform  appearances  while 
learning.     For  catalof   16  apply   P.  Ely,  ftoc'y.   66  W.  85th  St.,   N.  V 


Casts  of  Current 
Photoplays 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE   126  ] 


"HONOR  OF  THE  FAMILY"— First  National. 
— From  the  story  by  Balzac.  Adapted  by  James 
Ashmore  Creeland.  Directed  by  Lloyd  Bacon  The 
cast:  Laura,  Bebe  Daniels;  Captain  Boris,.  Warren 
William;  Tony  Revere,  Alan  Mowbray;  Mme.  Boris, 
Planche  Frederici;  Paul  Barony,  Frederick  Kerr; 
Roszi,  the  Maid,  Dita  Parlo;  Joseph,  Alan  Lane; 
Koitski,  Harry  Cording;  Capt.  Elek,  Murray  Kinnell; 
Renard,  Henry  Gordon;  Bela,  Alphonzo  Ethier;  Lieut. 
Kolman,  Carl  Miller. 

"MY  SIN" — Paramount. — From  the  story  by 
Fred  Jackson.  Scenario  bv  Owen  Davis  and  Adelaide 
Heilbron.  Directed  bv  George  Abbott.  The  cast: 
Carlotta,  Tallulah  Bankhead;  Ann  Trevor,  Tallulah 
Bankhead;  Dick  Grady,  Fredric  March;  Roger 
Metcalf,  Harry  Davenport;  Larry  Gordon,  Scott  Kolk; 
Mrs.  Gordon,  Anne  Sutherland;  Paula  Marsden, 
Margaret  Adams;  Helen  Grace,  Lily  Cahill;  James 
Bradford,  Jay  Fassett. 

"MYSTERY  TRAIN,  THE"— Darmour  Prod. 
— From  the  story  by  Hampton  Del  Ruth.  Adapted 
by  Hampton  Del  Ruth.  Directed  by  Philip  Whit- 
man. The  cast:  Ronald  Stanhope,  Nick  Stuart;  Joan, 
Marceline  Day;  Mrs.  Radcliffe,  Hedda  Hopper; 
William  Mortimer,  Bryant  Washburn;  Bridegroom, 
Al  Cooke;  Sheriff,  Joe  Girard. 

"OLD  SONG,  THE"  (DAS  ALTE  LIED)— 
Kreutzburg  Prod. — Directed  by  Eric  Waschneck. 
The  cast:  Countess  Eggedy,  Lil  Dagover;  Annerl 
Haslinger,  Lien  Deyers;  Hans  von  Langen,  Igo  Sym; 
Postsekretaer  Haslinger,  Gustav  Rickelt;  Baronin  von 
Langen,  Ida  Wuest;  Xandel,  Paul  Hoerbiger;  Bob, 
Bob  Stoll;  Jacques,  Felix  Bressart;  Frau  Treitelbach, 
Lucie  Euler;  Soffka,  Maria  Forescu;  Count  Hoyos, 
Franz  Scharwenka. 

"PAGAN  LADY" — Columbia. — From  the  play 
by  William  Du  Bois.  Scenario  by  Benjamin  Glazer. 
Directed  by  John  Francis  Dillon.  The  cast:  Dot 
Hunter,  Evelyn  Brent;  Ernest  Todd,  Conrad  Nagel; 
Dingo  Mike,  Charles  Bickford;  Doctor  Heath,  Roland 
Young;  Mai  Todd,  William  Farnum;  Nellie,  Lucille 
Gleason;  Jerry,  Leslie  Fenton;  Gwen,  Gwen  Lee. 

"PARISIAN,  THE" — Capital  Prod.— From  the 
story  by  Leopold  Marchand.  Adapted  by  Mary 
Murillo.  Directed  by  Jean  de  Limur.  The  cast: 
Gerome,  Adolphe  Menjou;  Gerard,  Roger  Treville; 
Stanley,  Redgie;  Lepetissale,  VVilliams;  Julien, 
Campion;  Yvonne,  Elissa  Landi;  Secretary,  Renee 
Savoye;  Mado,  Valery;  La  Concierge,  Pauline  Carton. 

"PENROD  AND  SAM"— First  National.— 
From  the  story  by  Booth  Tarkington.  Adapted  by 
Waldemar  Young.  Directed  by  William  Beaudine. 
The  cast:  Penrod,  Leon  Janney;  Sam,  Junior  Coghlan; 
Georgie,  Billy  Lord;  Rodney,  Nestor  Aber;  Mrs. 
Schofield,  Dorothy  Peterson;  Mr.  Schofield,  Matt 
Moore; 'Mrs.  Bassetl,  ZaSu  Pitts;  Mr.  Bassett,  Johnny 
Arthur;  Marjorie,  Margaret  Marquis;  Mr.  Bills, 
Charles  Sellon;  Mr.  Williams,  Wade  Boteler;V>rman, 
Robt.  Dandridge;  Margaret  Schofield,  Helen  Beau- 
dine;  Delia,  Gertrude  Howard. 

"PERSONAL  MAID"— Paramount. — From  the 
novel  by  Grace  Perkins.  Adapted  by  Adelaide  Heil- 
bron. Directed  by  Monta  Bell.  The  cast:  A^ora 
Ryan,  Nancy  Carroll;  Dick  Gary,  Gene  Raymond; 
Peter  Shea,  Pat  O'Brien;  Kipp,  Hugh  O'Connell; 
Mrs.  Otis  Gary,  Mary  Boland;  Gary  Gary,  George 
Fawcett;  Barrows,  Ernest  Lawford;  Gwen  Gary, 
Charlotte  Wynters;  Ma  Ryan,  Jessie  Busley;  Pa 
Ryan,  Donald  Meek;  Mrs.  Wurtz,  Clara  Langsner; 
Anna  Ryan,  Terry  Carroll;  Otis  Gary,  Lewis  Dayton; 
Buttons,  George  Offerman;  Fink,  Francis  Fraunie. 

"  RECKLESS  LIVING  "—Universal.— From  the 
play  "On  the  Up  and  Up"  by  Eva  K.  Flint  and 
Martha  Madison.  Adapted  by  Tom  Reed.  Directed 
by  Cyril  Gardner.  The  cast:  Curly,  Ricardo  Cortez; 
Bee,  Mae  Clarke;  Doggie,  Norman  Foster;  Alice, 
Marie  Prevost;  The  Drunk,  Slim  Summerville;  Ryan, 
Robert  Emmett  O'Connor;  McManus,  Thomas 
Jackson;  Block,  Louis  Nacheaux;  Alf,  Murray  Kin- 
nell; Kid  Regan,  Russell  Hopton;  Spike,  Perry  Ivins; 
Jerry,  Brooks  Benedict. 

"  ROAD  TO  RENO,  THE"— Paramount. — From 
the  story  by  Virginia  Kellogg.  Scenario  by  Josephine 
Lovett.  Directed  by  Richard  Wallace.  The  cast: 
Jackie  Millet,  Lilyan  Tashman;  Tom  Wood,  Charles 
"Buddv"  Rogers;  Lee  Millet,  Peggy  Shannon;  Jerry 
Kenton,  William  Boyd;  Robert  Millet,  Irving  Pichel; 
Mrs.  It-Fitch,  Wynne  Gibson;  Hoppie,  Skeets  Gal- 
lagher; Jeff  Millet,  Tom  Douglas;  Elsie,  Judith  Wood. 

"SEA  GHOST,  THE" — Imperial  Prod. — From 
the  story  by  Burnet  Hershey.  Continuity  by  William 
Nigh  and  Jo  Van  Ronkel.  Directed  by  William  Nigh. 
The  cast:  Evelyn,  Laura  La  Plante;  Capt.  Winter, 
Alan  Hale;  Percy,  Claud  Allister;  Sykes,  Clarence 
Wilson;  Ludwig.  Peter  Erkelenz. 

"SHANGHAIED  LOVE "  — Columbia.  —  From 
the  story  by  Norman  Springer.  Adapted  by  Roy 
Chanslor    and     Jack    Cunningham.       Directed     by 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  November,  1931 


I  29 


George  B.  Seitz.  The  cast:  John,  Richard  Cromwell; 
Angus  Swope,  Noah  Beery;  Mary,  Sally  Blane; 
Newman,  Willard  Robertson;  The  Rat,  Sidney  Bracy; 
Eric,  Dick  Alexander;  Fitzgibbons,  Edwin  J.  Brady; 
Deaken,  Erville  Alderson;  Lynch,  Jack  Cheatham; 
Snowflake,  Fred  Toomes;  Knitting  Swede,  Lionel 
Belmore. 

"SHOULD  A  DOCTOR  TELL"— Regal  Prod.— 
Directed  by  Manning  Haynes.  The  cast:  Dr.  Bruce 
Smith,  Basil  Fill;  Joan  Murray,  Noah  Baring;  Mrs. 
Norman,  Gladys  Jennings;  Roger  Bruce  Smith, 
Maurice  Evans;  Muriel  Ashlon,  Anna  Neagle;  John 
Carson,  Walter  Sondes;  Emma,  Claire  Greet;  The 
Judge,  A.  G.  Poulton;  Counsel  for  Defense,  C.  \Vood; 
Counsel  for  Prosecution,  H.  Braban. 

"SOB  SISTER"— Fox.— From  the  novel  by 
Mildred  Gilman.  Scenario  by  Edwin  Burke.  Directed 
by  Alfred  Santell.  The  cast:  Gary  Webster,  James 
Dunn;  Jane  Ray,  Linda  Watkins;  Daisy,  Molly 
O'Day;  Vonnie,  Minna  Gombell;  Ned,  Howard 
Phillips;  Johnny,  George  E.  Stone;  Editor,  Chas. 
Middleton;  Pat,  Eddie  Dillon;  Vonnie's  Husband, 
Ernie  Wood;  Slim,  Lex  Lindsay;  Johnny,  Harold 
Waldridge;  Fred  Smith,  Neal  Burns;  Pa  Stevens, 
Harry  Beresford;  Ma  Stevens,  Sarah  Padden;  Dutch 
Lewis,  George  Byron;  Lefty,  Edwin  Sturgis;  Gimp, 
Maurice  Black;  Mania  Harris,  Virginia  Sale. 

"STUDENT'S  SONG  OF  HEIDELBERG,  A" 
(EIN  BURSCHENLIED  AUS  HEIDELBERG)— 
UFA. — From  the  story  by  Ernst  Neubach  and  Hans 
Wilhelm.  Directed  by  Karl  Hartl.  The  cast:  John 
Miller,  Ernst  Stahl-Nachbaur;  Elinor  Miller,  Betty 
Bird;  Robert  Dahlberg,  Willi   Forst;  Bornemann  sen, 


Albert  Paulig;  Bornemann  junr,  Hans  Brausewctter; 
Sam  M ayer,  Hermann  Blass;  The  Landlady,  Ida  Wuest. 

"THIS  MODERN  AGE"— M-G-M—  From  the 
story  "Girls  Together"  by  Mildred  Cram.  Con- 
tinuity by  Sylvia  Thalberg  and  Frank  Butler. 
Directed  by  Nicholas  Grinde.  The  cast:  Valentine, 
Joan  Crawford;  Diane,  Pauline  Frederick;  Bob,  Neil 
Hamilton;  Tony,  Monroe  Owsley;  Mr.  Blake,  Hobart 
Bosworth;  Mrs.  Blake,  Emma  Dunn;  Andre  De 
Graignon,  Albert  Conti;  Marie,  Adrienne  D'Ambri- 
court;  Alyce,  Marcelle  Corday. 

"24  HOURS" — Paramount. — From  the  story  by 
Louis  Bromfield.  Scenario  by  Louise  Weitzenkorn. 
Directed  by  Marion  Gering.  The  cast:  Jim  Towner, 
Clive  Brook;  Fanny  Towner,  Kay  Francis;  Rosie 
Dugan,  Miriam  Hopkins;  Sicily  Tony,  Regis  Toomey; 
Hector  Champion,  George  Barbier;  Ruby  Winlring- 
ham,  Adrienne  Ames;  Savina  Jerrold,  Charlotte  Gran- 
ville; David  Melbourn,  Minor  Watson;  Mrs.  Dackle- 
horst,  Lucille  LaVerne;  Pat  Healy,  Wade  Boteler. 

"WE  THREE"— First  National.— From  the 
story  by  Edith  Fitzgerald.  Directed  by  John  Adolfi. 
The  cast:  Stella,  Rose  Hobart;  Sidney  Brock,  Ben 
Lyon;  Mr.  Brock,  Claude  Gillingwater;  Mrs  Squires, 
Emma  Dunn;  Connie,  Juliette  Compton;  Tony,  Bert 
Roach;  Louise  Brock,  Florence  Britton;  Mrs.  Bird, 
Adele  Watson;  Mrs.  Munsey,  Louise  Mackintosh; 
Sandy,  Delmar  Watson;  Tipton,  Edgar  Norton. 

"WHITE  DEVIL,  THE"— UFA.— From  the 
novel  "  Hadschi  Murat"  by  Tolstoy.  Directed  by 
Alexander  Wolkoff.  The  cast:  Hadschi  Murat,  Ivan 
Mosjoukine;  Nelidowa,  Lil  Dagover;  Saira,  Betty 
Amann;  The  Czar,  Fritz  Alberty. 


Bet  you  don't  recognize  these  two  pretty  girls.  They  were  sensationally 
successful  child  actresses  before  Garbo  went  to  work  in  a  Swedish  hat 
shop.    Jane  and  Katherine  Lee,  grown  up  and  appearing  in  a  stage  show 

in  New  York 


CORNS 


Relief  in  I  Minute 

No  waiting!   In  one  minute  painful 

corns  or  tender  toes  are  completely 

relieved  when  you  apply 

Dr.  SchoU's  Zino-pads. 

Their  healing,   soothing 

medication  gives  you  this 

magic  relief.  Their  cush- 

ioning,protective  feature 

removes  the  cause — shoe 

friction  and  pressure. 

100%  SAFE! 

Zino-pads  are  positively 
safe,  sure.  Using  harsh 
liquids  or  plasters  often 
causes  acid  burn.  Cut- 
ting your  corns  or  cal- 
louses invites  blood- 
poisoning.  Zino-pads  are 
small,  thin,  dainty,  easy 
to  apply.  Made  in  special 
sizes  for  Corns,  Corns 
between  toes,  Callouses 
and  Bunions.  At  all  drug, 
shoe  and  dept.  stores — 
only  35c  a  box. 

DrScholl's 

Zino-pads 

Put  one  on — the  •  pain  is  gone! 


^This  Lash  Cosmetic 

DEFIES 
DUPLICATION 

EVERY  effort  made  to 
copy  this  wonderful 
liquid  mascara  has  been  a  fail- 
ure Katherine  MacDonald's 
Lash  Cosmetic  —  which  is 
used  by  the  stars  of  Holly- 
wood— is  the  only  one  that 
leaves  your  lashes  soft  and 
silky,  yet  is  positively  waterproof.  Cryproof.  - .  rainproof. . . 
no  water  can  make  it  streak  or  run,  yet  it  gives  no  hint 
of  artificiality.  Contains  no  varnish,  so  cannot  flake  nor 
break  your  lashes.  Easily  removed  with  cold  cream. 
Handy  purse  sue  gold  capped  bottle,  black  or  brown.  Si 

IKATIHIEIRIINE  MLclDO WAHID'S 
LASH 
COSMETIC 


$1 


WATtRPROO'' 


Katherine  MacDonald.  Holly  wood,  Calif. 


Particulars  of  Dr.  Esenwein's  famous  forty  - 
lesson  course  in  writing  and  marketing  of  the 
Short-Story  and  sample  copy  of  The  Wbiteb'3 
Monthly  free.    Write  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL 
Dept.  95.  Springfield,  Mas*. 


Cal    York's    Monthly    Broadcast    from    Hollywood 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  92 


A  CERTAIN  Hollywood  boy  was  paying 
■*»■  unwanted  and  marked  attentions  to  Maur- 
een O'Sullivan. 

He  was  asked  so  repeatedly  to  stop  annoy- 
ing the  lady  that  at  last  some  wit  dubbed  him, 
"O'Sullivan's  heel!" 

The  name  has  stuck. 

VARIETY  reports  the  one  about 
the  temperamental  director  who 
was  listening  to  an  actor  read  a  part. 
"Is  it  O.  K.?"  asked  the  actor. 
"Not    yet,"     said     the    director. 
"Would  you  come  back  tomorrow  and 
read  it  again,  wearing  a  grey  suit?" 

FORTY   homely  girls   wanted  for   "Flying 
High!" 

And  Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  could  not  get 
enough  answers  from  that  call.  There  simply 
aren't  forty  girls  in  Hollywood  who  will  admit 
they  are  homely.  Production  is  being  held  up 
until  they're  found. 

FELINE  Observation  by  Hollywood 
Chatter- Writer: 
"Lily  Damita  has  gotten  down  to 
normal  weight  by  riding  horseback — 
and  so  has  the  horse." 

XTOT  negligible  is  the  trained  animal  popu- 
■L^  lation  of  Hollywood.  Talkies  hit  them  a 
nasty  wallop,  for  most  of  the  commands  on 
which  they  worked  were  given  in  sound,  and 
the  mike  picked  up  the  trainer's  calls,  of 
course. 

But  the  owners  adapted  themselves  and 
have  now  taught  their  animals  to  obey  sign 
commands.  So  the  lean  days  that  fell  upon 
the  animal  trainers  in  the  first  era  of  the  talkies 
have  passed. 

There's  a  trained  goose,  for  instance,  who 
gets  $60  a  day  when  she  works. 

There's  a  trained  cat  that  rates  $35  a  day. 

And  there's  a  parrot  that  swears  in  five 
languages. 

"\  J  A  RIETY  nominates  Author  Arthur  Caesar 

"  for  the  office  of  super  yes-man  because  he 

plays  polo  with  Darryl  Zanuck,  First  National- 

130 


Three  lovely  ladies  of  Cinemania 
return  from  holidays  over  the 
ocean.  Left  to  right,  Mrs.  Jack 
Mulhall,  Constance  Talmadge 
and  Lenore  Bushman,  daughter 
of  Francis  X.  All  three  returned 
on  the  same  ship,  and  all  re- 
ported jolly  times 


Warner  chief,  and  when  the  latter  falls  off  his 
horse,  Caesar  takes  a  tumble,  too. 

SOMEONE    asked    Lionel    Barry- 
more  to  describe  Clark  Gable.    He 
answered  promptly: 

"Rudolph  Valentino  made  up  as 
Jack  Dempsey!" 

A    HOLLYWOOD  Tragedy!— 
■**•      Noted  director  and  wife  on  outs.    Battle 
all  the  time. 

Director  finally,  for  peace  of  mind,  con- 
vinced wife  she  ought  to  go  on  vacation.  She 
does. 

Director  breathes  sigh  of  relief. 

Studio  calls  him.  Assigns  him  to  new  picture 
starting  with  location  trip.  "Location"  is 
same  place  wife  went. 

Fade  out. 

IT'S  come  to  the  point  where  a  man  cannot 
walk  into  the  Hollywood  Athletic  Club  with  a 
suitcase  without  the  newspapers  announcing 
he's  moved  from  his  home  and  left  little  wifey 
lonely. 

(~\P  course,  she  will — but  Clara  Bow  would 
^-''never  have  to  work  again  for  the  rest  of  her 
life,  if  she  didn't  want  to. 

Out  of  her  six-year  starring,  she  has  saved  at 
least  a  quarter  of  a  million  dollars.  Of  this, 
$150,000  is  with  a  Los  Angeles  bank  in  the 
form  of  permanent  trust  fund,  from  which 
Clara  will  get  the  interest  for  life,  enough  to 
live  on  and  comfortably,  too,  thank  you.  The 
rest  is  in  jewelry  and  valuable  Beverly  Hills 
real  estate. 

JACKIE  COOPER  was  the  only  actor  invited 
upon  a  recent  yachting  trip  given  by  Louis  B. 
Mayer  for  a  large  group  of  personal  friends. 
Master  Jackie  rates  high  at  his  new  studio. 


We  call  to  your  notice  Ralph  Bellamy,  splendid  stage  actor  who 

played  opposite  Ruth  Chatterton  in  "The  Magnificent  Lie."    And 

his  wife,  Katherine  Willard,  actress,  beauty  and  grand  cook.    Here 

they  are,  balancing  the  budget  in  the  new  Hollywood  home 


twice  the  is 
beauty 

from  face  powder 
if  you  use 

princess  pat 


the 

famous 
almond  base 
makes  it 
different. 


Face  powder  gives  the  greatest  beauty  when  it  is  softest. 
The  characteristic  of  Princess  Pat  face  powder,  which  in- 
variably brings  delight,  is  its  unusual  softness.  It  gives  to 
the  skin  a  new,  velvety  smoothness — beauty  that  is 
natural,  and  not  "powdery." 

All  the  many  advantages  of  Princess  Pat  face  powder  are 
due  to  its  almond  base.  And  since  no  other  powder  pos- 
sesses an  almond  base,  Princess  Pat  is  bound  to  be  dif- 
ferent —  bound  to  be  a  glorious  experience  when  it  is  used 
for  the  first  time.  No  woman  really  knows  the  excellence 
to  which  powder  can  attain  until  she  has  tried  "the 
powder  with  the  almond  base." 

A  Difference  With  a  Reason.  So  many  powders  are 
described  as  impalpable,  or  fine,  or  clinging  or  of  purest 
ingredients.  But  do  you  find  that  these  virtues  are 
explained? 

If  Princess  Pat  lacked  its  marvelous  almond  base,  it,  too, 
would  lack  explanation.  But  every  woman  knows  that 
almond  in  its  various  forms  is  the  most  soothing  and  de- 
lightful of  all  beauty  aids. 

The  usual  base  of  face  powders  is  starch.  The  slightest 
thought  must  convince  any  woman  that  almond  as  a 
powder  base  is  preferable  to  starch  in  the  very  nature  of 
things. 


PRINCESS 
PAT 


Consequently  there  really  is  a  reason  for  the  difference 
immediately  noticeable  when  Princess  Pat  face  powder  is 
tried. 

And  Your  Skin  is  Actually  Improved.  Of  course  Princess 
Pat  is  used  primarily  for  the  greater  beauty  it  gives  im- 
mediately —  as  powder  —  as  an  essential  of  make-up.  It 
is  preferred  for  its  dainty  fragrance;  for  the  hours  and 
hours  it  clings  —  longer  than  you'd  dare  hope. 

But  there  is  something  additional  to  account  for  the 
preference  of  women  who  know.  The  almond  in  Princess 
Pat  is  definitely  good  for  the  skin.  All  the  while  your  face 
powder  is  on,  the  almond  exerts  its  soothing,  beneficial 
qualities.  Continued  use  of  Princess  Pat  almond  base  face 
powder  is  an  excellent  preventive  of  coarse  pores.  It 
helps  wonderfully  in  overcoming  either  oily  skin,  or  dry 
skin.  For  it  helps  make  the  skin  normal  —  in  which  event 
there  cannot  be  dryness  or  oilincss. 

Yes,  Princess  Pat  docs  give  "twice  the  beauty"  from  face 
powder  —  and  millions  of  women  use  it  for  this  reason, 


CHICAGO,  U.  S.  A. 


(IN  CANADA,  93  CHfRCH  ST.,  TORONTO) 


get  this  Week  End 

Set- SPECIAL 

The  popular  Week  End  Set  for  this  coupon  and 
tSc  (.coin).  Contains  Princess  Vat  liougc.  Up 
Rouge,  almond  base  Poirder  and  three  creams 
in  liberal,  attractire  sizes.  Also  neic  booklet 
of  valuable  beauty  secrets. 


PRINCESS  PAT,  2709  S.  Wells  St.,  Chicago. 

Deot.  156-B.    Enclosed  find  25c  for  widen  send 
mo  llif  Princess  Pat  Week  r.nd  Set. 


Xanic  (print) .  . 

Street 

City  ami  State. 


Dorothy  Mackaill,  poised  and  lovely  First  National  sta-       or  sports  she  wears  the  simplest  things  .  .  .  a  white  tennis 
coat,  a  swimming  suit  as  active  as  the  aquaplane  she  rides.    Jut  for  evening  .  .  .  this  magnificent  couturier  gown  of  black 

lace,  with  its  stunning  wrap  of  velvet  and  white  fox. 


VARIETY 


IS    THE    NEW    SPICE    OF    FASHION 


The  modern  girl  may  revel  in  a 
veritable  galaxy  of  gowns.  There 
are  charming  costumes  for  almost 
every  hour  of  the  day.  But  if 
these  are  tempting,  they  are  none 
the  less  exacting.  They  require  a 
figure  with  graceful  curves,  with 
rounded  contours  to  set  them  off 
to  best  effect. 

Clinging  gowns  reveal  the  form 
almost  as  much  as  the  audacious 
swimming  suit.  Both  are  subtle  com- 
pliments to  the  vibrant  beauty  of 
modern  women. 

Fortunately,  most  women  can 
attain  this  fashionable  figure — by 
wise  control  of  their  weight.  Yet  there 
are  pitfalls.  Unless  a  reducing  diet, 
otherwise  adequate,  contains  plenty 
of  roughage,  improper  elimination 
may  develop.  Poisons  spread  through 
the  body.  Headaches,  dizziness,  yel- 
low skins,  pimples  are  natural  results. 

There  is  a  pleasant,  modern  way  to 
insure  plenty  of  roughage  in  the  diet. 


Simply  eat  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Kellogg's  All-Bran  daily.  This  deli- 
cious cereal  is  guaranteed  to  over- 
come the  danger  of  faulty  elimination. 
Isn't  it  much  better  to  enjoy  this 
natural  food  than  to  risk  habit- 
forming  pills  and  drugs  ? 

You  will  like  the  many  ways  Kel- 
logg's All-Bran  can  be  eaten  with- 
out adding  many  calories  to  the  menu. 
Milk  brings  out  the  delightful  nut- 
like flavor.  Use  All-Bran  in  cooking 


too.  Kellogg's  All-Bran  also  pro- 
vides iron,  Nature's  rouge  for  cheeks 
and  lips.  Eat  it  regularly.  Ask  for  the 
red-and-green  package  at  your  gro- 
cer's. Recommended  by  dietitians. 
Made  by  Kellogg  in  Battle  Creek. 


WRITE      FOR      FREE      BOOKLET 

"THE  MODERN  FIGURE" 
Leading  motion-picture  ac- 
tresses are  shown  to  you  in 
"fashion  close-ups,"  wearing 
the  costumes  that  millions  of 
critical  eyes  will  see  on  the 
screen.  Everything  from 
sports-togs  to  evening  gowns. 
In  addition,  the  booklet  is 
full  of  valuable  information 
on  how  to  reduce  wisely.  Free  upon  request. 


KELLOGG  COMPANY 

Dept.  A-ii  ,  Battle  Creek,  Michigan 

Please  send  me  a  free  copy  of  your  booklet, 
"The  Modern  Figure." 


Name- 


Address- 


T/ie   NEWS  J 

MAGAZINE 

of  t/l 

e   SCREEN 

•J 

1 

0 

r 

UJ 

•J 

^■1                  aw      ^L.           «fl 

gyMJ  1 

DECEMBER                          u^ 

I 

*   ■  jWP^^ 

^..,                  25  CENTS 

30  Canto  In  Canada 

*aoV 


ow 
Madge 
Evans 
Grew  To 
Stardom 


1 1 


JEAN  HARLOW 
SEE  PAGE  34 


?  Hrtpi/ 


Latest   Beauty    Fads 
of  Hollywood  Stars 


"I  insist  on 
Lucky  Strik 


"There's  nothing  like  a 
microphone  to  show  up  the  voice 
in  its  true  colors.  So  I  insist  on 
Lucky  Strike— the  cigarette  that 
I  know  will  be  kind  to  my  throat. 
And  you've  certainly  scored 
another  hit  with  your  new 
style  Cellophane  wrapper 
that  opens  so  easily/1 


Sally  Eilers  will  always  call  this  her 
big  year.  First,  she  learned  to  fly  a 
plane.  Then  she  married  and  found 
domestic  bliss.  Then  she  made  a 
smashing  success  in  "Bad  Girl/' 
As  a  reward,  Fox  is  co-starring  her 
in  "Over  the  Hill." 


fct 


It's  toasted 


Your  threat  Protection  —  ogolmt  Irritation  —  against  cough 

And  Moisture-Proof  Cellophane  Keeps 
that   "Toasted"  Flavor  Ever  Fresh 


MOISTURE- 
PROOF 
CELLOPHANE 

Sealed  Tight 
Ever  Right 

THE   UNIQUE 
HUMIDOR 
PACKAGE 

and  it's  open! 


*  Is  Miss  Eilers' 
Statement  Paid  For? 

You  may  be  interested  in 
knowing  that  not  one  cent 
was  paid  to  Miss  Eilers 
to  make  the  above  state- 
ment. Miss  Eilers  has 
been  a  smoker  of  LUCKY 
STRIKE  cigarettes  for  2¥t 
years.  We  hope  the  pub- 
licity herewith  given  will 
be  as  beneficial  to  her 
and  to  Fox,  her  producers, 
as  her  endorsement  of 
LUCKIESistoyouandtous. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


A     WRITER     OF     ROMANCE 


DISCOVERS     THAT 


// 


pink  tooth   brush 


// 


HAS     AN      UNHAPPY      ENDING! 


B 


USY?  Of  course  I've  been  busy!  In  the 
past  twelve  months  I've  traipsed  across  a 
couple  of  oceans  .  .  .  done  Egypt  again  so  I 
could  finish  that  serial  .  .  .  taken  a  peek  at 
Vienna . . .  and  sold  nine  short  stories,  besides 
giving  a  few  lectures. 

"And  I  look  it.   My  clothes  are  a  sight.   My 


hair  looks  dead.  Why,  even  my  teeth  look 
wrong  lately!  And  goodness  knows,  I've 
never  neglected  them. 

"Or  have  I?  Who  was  it?  Must  have  been 
that  nice  young  American  dentist  in  Calcutta 
who  told  me  I'd  better  get  rid  of 'pink  tooth 
brush'  or  I'd  regret  it.  That  was  a  year  and 


I  PAN  A 


tooth  paste 


DEFEATS  "PINK   TOOTH    BRUSH"    •    BRINGS   BEAUTY   TO   THE   TEETH 


a  half  ago.  I  suppose  I'm  paying  up  now 
for  that  piece  of  negligence.  Well,  here  goes 
for  Ipana  and  massage.  Today.  I  may  be 
34 — but  I'm  going  to  have  sound  gums  and 
white  teeth  for  a  good  many  years  longer.  If 
I  know  myself" .  .  . 

"Pink  tooth  brush"  is  a  sly  trouble  that 
may  slip  up  on  you  no  matter  who  you  are 
—where  you  are — or  how  old  you  are. 

"It's  the  soft  foods  we  civilized  people 
eat!"  your  dentist  will  tell  you.  "They  don't 
stimulate  the  gums.  And  without  exercise 
your  gums  relapse  into  laziness.  They  stop 
working.  Get  flabby.  And  the  next  thing  is 
that  they're  so  tender  that  you  find  'pink' 
on  your  tooth  brush." 

And  he'll  go  on  to  tell  you  that  if  you 
don't  get  "pink  tooth  brush"  under  control, 
you  may  find  yourself  with  gingivitis  or 
pyorrhea  or  Vincent's  Disease.  It  may  even 
endanger  sound  teeth  through  infection  at 
the  roots. 

There's  no  need  to  take  chances  with 
"pink  tooth  brush"—  not  with  Ipana  Tooth 
Paste  in  every  drug  store.  Clean  your  teeth 
with  Ipana.  That  will  help.  But  for  the  best 
results,  each  time  put  a  little  fresh  Ipana 
on  your  brush  or  finger-tip  and  massage  it 
directly  into  your  gums. 

Even  in  the  first  few  days  you'll  see  a  new 
brightness  taking  the  place  of  the  grayish 
look  your  teeth  have  developed.  And  before 
that  first  tube  of  Ipana  is  gone,  you'll  find 
that  your  gums  are  decidedly  firmer.  Keep 
on  with  Ipana  and  massage — and  you'll  be 
safe  from  "pink  tooth  brush." 
r  *  t 

BRISTOL-MYERS  CO..  Dept.  1-121 
7  J  West  Street,  New  York,  N.  Y. 

Kindly  send  me  a  trial  tube  of  IPANA  TOOTH 
PASTE.  Enclosed  is  a  two-cent  stamp  to  cover 
pardy  the  cost  of  packing  and  mailing. 

Name 

Street 

City State 


Thotoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


"24    HOURS" 

with  Clive  Brook,  Kay  Francis,  Miriam  Hopkins 

and  Regis  Toomey 

Based  on  the  novel  by  Louis  Bromfield 

Directed  by  Marion  Gering 

"THE  BELOVED  BACHELOR" 

With  Paul  Lukas,  Dorothy  Jordan,  Charlie  Ruggles 
Vivienne  Osborne.  Directed  by  Lloyd  Corrigan 

RUTH      CHATTERTON 
in  "Once    A    Lady"  with 

Ivor  Novello,  Jill  Esmond,  Geoffrey' Kerr 
Directed  by  Guthrie  McClinlic 

"  T  O  U  C  H  D  OWN!" 

With  Richard  Alien,  Peggy  Shannon,  Jack  Oakie, 

Regis  Toomey  and  Charles  Starrctt. 

Directed  by  Norman,  McLeod 


and  most  of  them  are 

PARAMOUNT! 

Never  were  they  better— the  Paramount  Jubilee  Pictures  you  can 
see  now!  And  never  was  great  entertainment  more  necessary  than 
now.  In  good  pictures  we  lose  ourselves  completely  in  the  affairs 
of  others— forget  the  trials  and  tribulations  of  a  day— get  renewed 
strength  and  vigor  for  the  next.  <J  Go  regularly  and  often  —  and 
take  the  whole  family  with  you!  It  keeps  you  together,  and  great 
pictures,  such  as  Paramount,  give  you  something  to  talk  about 
for  days!  " 'If it's  a  Paramount  picture,  it's  the  best  show  in  town!" 

(paramount Cpidum. 


PARAMOUNT    Pl'BLIX    CORPORATION.    ADOLPH    Zl'KOR.    PRES..    PARAMOUNT   BUILDING.  N.  Y. 


010 


The  World's  Leading  Motion   Picture  Publication 


Vol.  XLI  No.  1 


JAMES  R.  QUIRK,  Editor  and  Publisher 


December,  1931 


Winners  of  Photoplay 
Magazine  Gold  Medal  for 
the    best    picture   of   the    year 

1920  1923  1926 

"HUMOR-         "The  "BEAU 

ESQUE"    COVERED         GESTE" 
WAGON" 

1921  1924  1927 

"TOL'ABLE  "ABRAHAM     "7th 
DAVID"    LINCOLN"  HEAVEN" 


1922 

1925 

1928 

"ROBIN 

"THE  BIG 

"FOUR 

HOOD" 

PARADE" 

1929 

"DISRAELI" 

SONS" 

Information  and 
Service 

Brickbats  and  Bouquets  ....       6 
Hollywood  Menus 17 


Friendly  Advice  on  Girls' 
Problems       . 


74 


Questions  and  Answers  ...  88 
Addresses  of  the  Stars  ....  107 
Screen  Memories  from  Photoplay  108 
Casts  of  Current  Photoplays       .      .125 


High-Lights  of  This  Issue 

Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots James  R.  Qlirk  25 

Our  Guest  Page Eddie  Cantor  27 

Latest  Beauty  Fads  of  Hollywood  Stars  ....       Lois  Shirley  28 

My  Uncle  Egbert— WHOOPS— Meets  the  Stars         .       Bogart  Rogers  32 

Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 34 

Love  Laughs  at  Locksmiths  But  Not  at  the  Grocer  ....  38 
Seymour — Photoplay's  Fashion  Authority     ....         42  and  62 

A  Dramatic  Moment  on  the  "Safe  in  Hell"  Set          ....  50 

"All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front"  Wins 57 

Rudy  Vallee  at  Home Leonard  Hall  60 

"Ginsburg!" Ida  Zeitlin  65 

Ruth  Chatterton  in  "Once  a  Lady" 67 

$2,000  Prize  Won  by  Girl 68 

The  Unknown  Hollywood  I  Know     ....      Katherine  Albert  72 

Beauty,  Personality  and  Popularity!     .         .        .         Carolyn  Van  Wyck  74 

These  Hollywood  Cruelties Kay  Evans  76 

Hollyhoo 79 

Photoplay's  Famous  Reviews 

Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 8 

The  Shadow  Stage 46 

Short  Subjects  of  the  Month 106 

Personalities 

How  Madge  Evans  Grew  to  Stardom Ruth  Biery  40 

The  Comeback  Champ Evaline  Lieber  45 

Wandering  with  the  Marches James  M.  Kahn  52 

Jimmy,  Sylvia,  Linda  and  John 58 

When  They  Were  Very  Young 70 

Sally's  N(      a  "Bad  Girl" Maud  Latiiem  78 

Shopping  With  Marian  in  New  York 86 


Short  Story 


Bread  Line 


Margaret  E.  Sangster      54 


Published  monthly  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Co. 
Editorial  Offices,  221  W.  57th  St.,  New  York  City  Publishing  Office,  919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

The  International  News  Company.  Ltd.,  Distributing  Agents,  5  Bream's  Building,  London,  England 

James  R.  Quirk,  President  Robert  M.  Eastman,  Vice-President  Kathryn  Dougherty,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

Yearly  Subscription:  S2.50  in  the  United  States,  its  dependencies.  Mexico  and  Cuba;  S3.50  Canada;  S3.50  for  foreign  countries.    Remittances 

should  be  made  by  check,  or  postal  or  express  money  order.    Caution — Do  not  subscribe  through  persons  unknown  to  you. 

Entered  as  second-class  matter  April  24,  1912.  at  the  Postoffice  at  Chicago.  111.,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879. 

Copyright,  1931,  by  the  Photoplay  Publishing  Company,  Chicago 


1  he  Audi 


ence 


Oveaks  U 


p 


P 


"\\  ith  Brickbats  and  Bou- 
quets Photoplay  Readers 
Voice  Their  Opinions  of 
Pictures  and  Personalities 


When  the  audience  speaks  the  stars  and  producers 
listen.  We  offer  three  prizes  for  the  best  letters  of  the 
month  — $25,  $10  and  $5.  Literary  ability  doesn't 
count.  But  candid  opinions  and  constructive  sugges- 
tions do.  Write  up  to  200  words,  no  more.  We  must 
reserve  the  right  to  cut  letters  to  suit  space  limitations, 
and  no  letters  can  be  returned.  Address  The  Editor, 
PHOTOPLAY,  221  West  57th  Street,  New  York  City. 


HAIL  the  new  king!  Leslie 
Howard  is  the  boy  who  brings 
shouts  of  delight  this  month.  Too 
bad  he  says  he's  tired  of  Hollywood 
and  won't  come  back.  Even  so,  Clark 
Gable's  crown  is  still  secure  on  that 
sleek  black  head.  And  it  looks  like 
a  comeback  for  John  Gilbert.  The 
folks  went  for  him  in  "The  Phantom 
of  Paris." 

Charlie  Farrell  and  Janet  Gaynor 
spelled  romance  in  "Merely  Mary 
Ann"  and  possess  the  biggest  chunk 
of  the  fan  heart.  "And  don't  separate 
them,"  is  the  cry.  Some  "yeses"  and 
some  "nos"  on  "An  American  Trag- 
edy" and  "Street  Scene,"  but  not  a 
single  brickbat  for  "Bad  Girl."  Every- 
body is  crazy  about  James  Dunn  and 
Sally  Eilers  and  said  so  with  flags 
waving. 

Cries  for  human  stories  and  com- 
edies. And  they  want  the  old  swash- 
buckling, singing  Ramon  Novarro 
back.  "Son  of  Ind;a"  was  a  big  dis- 
appointment. Besides  the  players 
mentioned,  top-notchers  for  discussion 
were  Garbo,  Dietrich,  Crawford, 
Shearer,  Barbara  Stanwyck,  George 
Arliss  and  Lionel  Barrymore. 

James  R.  Quirk's  editorial  in  the 
October  issue  found  plenty  of  agreers 
who  don't  want  favorite  book  titles 
changed  for  pictures.  This  was  a  big 
writing  month. 

Join  the  word  parade.  Dip  your 
pens  in  vitriol  or  saccharine.  But  dip. 
Here's  your  chance  to  express  your 
opinion. 

THE  $25  LETTER 

She  was  one  of  those  sweet  young  married 
things  who  had  always  had  just  what  she 
wanted.  She  had  a  little  red  brick  house  with  a 
large  attic  that  would  have  made  a  lovely 
nursery.  There  was  a  big  back-yard  that 
would  have  held  a  sand  pile  and  a  swing.  But 
she  did  not  want  a  baby.  Her  time  and  plans 
did  not  permit.  And  then  she  found  out  she 
was  going  to  have  one.  She  was  furious.  She 
determined  she  wouldn't  tell  her  husband  just 
then. 

A  show  tonight — that  would  take  her  mind 
off  her  trouble.  Here  was  one  that  sounded 
sexy  and  entertaining — "Bad  Girl." 

Not  having  read  the  book,  she  was  totally 
unprepared  for  what  she  was  going  to  see.  She 
watched  the  film. 

On  the  way  home  her  husband  reached  over 
and  took  her  hand  in  his.  "Weren't  that  boy 
and  girl  sweet  and  didn't  it  get  hold  of  your 
heart  when  the  nurse  brought  the  baby  to  her? 
I  wish  .  .  ." 


Softly  she  said,  "I'm  glad  you  liked  it,  dear. 
We're  going  to  have  a  baby." 

Mrs.  D.  Stich,  Oklahoma  City,  Okla. 

THE  $10  LETTER 

Many  times  one  reads  letters,  in  the  col- 
umns of  leading  newspapers,  from  a  bashful 
boy  who  simply  can't  get  up  enough  nerve  to 
tell  the  sweetest  girl  in  the  world  he  loves  her 
and  wants  her  for  his  bride. 

I  think  there  is  no  better  cure  for  such  a 
malady  than  a  clean,  wholesome  love  picture 
by  America's  greatest  screen  lovers — Janet 
Gaynor  and  Charles  Farrell. 

Take  my  advice  and  try  it  and  see.  And 
then  if  your  nerve  fails  you  I  believe  your  case 
must  be  entirely  hopeless. 

Josephine  Miller,  Covington,  Ohio 

THE  $5  LETTER 

The  folks  in  our  neighborhood  seemed  to 
misunderstand  me,  because  I  was  always  out 
for  a  good  time  and  did  not  act  as  poised  or 
ladylike  as  I  should  have.  Of  course,  they 
talked.    Well,  I  became  hardened  until  I  went 


Here's  Trouble ! 

I'VE  just  read  "The  Book  of  Dilem- 
mas," published  by  Simon  and 
Schuster,  and  it  gave  me  an  idea  for 

one  to  put  up  to  PHOTOPLAY'    readers: 
Lost  in  the  desert  were  the  following 

twelve  stars: 

Greta  Garbo  Marlene  Dietrich 

Clark  Gable  Gary  Cooper 

Lupe  Velez  Constance  Bennett 

Clara  Bow  Nancy  Carroll 

William  Haines  Robert  Montgomery 
Joan  Crawford      Jean  Harlow 

You  can  save  eight,  and  leave  four  be- 
hind to  perish  in  the  desert.  Which  ones 

would  you  save? 

Nora  Myers, 

Detroit,  Mich. 

PHOTOPLAY  Magazine  has  enough 
troubles  of  its  own,  but  if  readers  lack 
excitement  just  let  them  ask  this  ques- 
tion the  next  time  the  bridge  club  meets. 
We  will  have  no  part  in  it. 

THt  Editor 


to  see  "The  Common  Law"  and  "Laughing 
Sinners."  These  pictures  made  me  realize  how 
common  I  was  acting  without  meaning  to. 

Now  I  am  a  different  girl  in  actions  and  talk; 
I  even  feel  different.  My  parents  are  proud  of 
me  again.  I  think  pictures  like  those  are 
wonderful  as  well  as  the  actors  and  actresses  in 
them. 

A.  M.  Black,  Wenatchee,  Wash. 

ONE  FOR  JACK 

When  anyone  can  stir  a  Baltimore  audience 
to  applause  he  must  be  great.  This  town,  as  a 
rule,  has  about  the  most  unresponsive  audi- 
ences that  are  to  be  found.  But  I  want  to  con- 
gratulate Mr.  John  Gilbert  for  doing  something 
to  wake  up  the  audience  to  such  a  pitch  that 
they  forgot  "The  Phantom  of  Paris"  was  just  a 
picture  and  applauded  with  a  vigor  that  has 
not  been  shown  here,  to  my  knowledge,  since 
"The  Big  Parade."  Mr.  Gilbert,  do  it  again. 
Joseph  S.  Bohannon,  Baltimore,  Md. 

SO  DO  WE 

I  want  Fatty  Arbuckle  back  and  I  want 
Clara  Bow  back.  I  don't  want  to  criticize  their 
affairs.  They  gave  me  pleasure  and  I  thank 
them. 

Hazel  L.  Smith.  Stratford,  Calif. 

THIS  TEACHER  KNOWS 

Now,  as  never  before,  the  modern  teacher  is 
called  upon  to  know  and  understand  the  in- 
terests of  her  very  modern  children.  Inasmuch 
as  the  proximity  of  Hollywood  creates  an  ex- 
ceptional interest  in  the  screen  for  our  young- 
sters, we  Los  Angeles  teachers  find  it  necessary 
to  keep  pace  with  them  by  "knowing  our 
movies." 

I  invest  in  Photoplay  each  month  and  study 
"The  Shadow  Stage."  I  feel  that  it  is  im- 
portant for  children  to  know  they  may  discuss 
current  films  with  their  teacher,  because  it 
opens  one  of  the  avenues  through  which  the 
teacher  may  guide  and  protect  the  tastes  of  her 
charges  and  tactfully  discourage  their  seeing 
some  of  the  poorer  productions. 

Gertrude  M.  York,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

BUT  PARROTS  TALK  BACK 

I'm  sick  of  all  this  bunk  about  Marlene 
Dietrich.  Why,  she  can't  even  act.  She 
imitates  Garbo,  but  Garbo  is  like  Photoplay — 
imitated  but  never  duplicated.  Von  Stern- 
berg's parrot — that's  a  good  name  for  her. 
Christine  Clay,  Jackson,  Miss. 

CHEERS  FOR  LES 


Why  not  do  a  little  shouting  and  comment- 
ing upon  a  truly  good  actor — Leslie  Howard? 
[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  12  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 

f  *\ 


7 


****** 


JiUTJfa^ 


'local  boy 
makes  good 

th  DOROTHY  LEE 

Based  on  a  play  by 
J.  C.  and  Elliott  Nugent 

Directed  by  MERVYN   LEROy 


// 


He  is  a  storm  of  laughs  just  being  himself, 
and  when  he  is  "two  other  fellows"  he  is  a 
cyclone  of  merriment  .  .  .  Get  acquainted 
with  this  merry  madcap  of  nonsense! . . .  this 
hilarious  and  uproarious  comic!  .  .  .  the 
laugh-master  of  them  all!  .  .  .  His  next 
picture  is  "LOCAL  BOY  MAKES  GOOD". 
. . .  Don't  miss  it,  or  the  other  blues-chasing 
comedies  featuring  this  Gulliver  of  Glee 
soon  to  appear  at  your  local  theatre  .  .  . 
You'll  have   the    laugh-time   of    your   life. 


A  FIRST  NATIONAL  XrVITAPHONE  STAR 


AFFAIRS     OF     ANNABELLE.     THE— Fox.— 

Joanetto  MacDonald  and  Victor  McLaglen  in  a  laugh- 
worthy  farce.    (July) 

AGE  FOR  LOVE,  THE— Caddo.— Billie  Dove  is 
good  but  the  old  familiar  story  doesn't  click.    (Oct.) 

•     ALEXANDER  HAMILTON  —  Warners- 
George   Arliss.   need   we  say   more?     Another 
superb  characterization  of  an  historic  figure.  (Aug.) 

ALIAS  THE  BAD  MAN— Tiffany  Prod.— You 
probably  won't  like  this  even  if  you're  a  Western  fan. 
Ken  Maynard  is  okay — but  you  simply  don't  believe 
that  story.     (Sept.) 

ALWAYS  GOODBYE— Fox.— Elissa  Landi  gives 
a  charming  performance  in  a  rather  ordinary  piece. 
Lewis  Stone  and  Paul  Cavanagh  support  her.  See  la 
Landi.     (July) 

•  AMERICAN  TRAGEDY.  AN— Paramount.— 
Dreiser's  great  tragedy  becomes  one  of  the 
month's  best  pictures.  Phillips  Holmes  and  Sylvia 
Sidney  head  a  glorious  cast.  Not  for  the  children. 
(Aug.) 

ARIZONA  —  Columbia. —  (Reviewed  under  title 
"Men  Are  Like  That").  Laura  La  Plante  and  John 
Wayne  find  life  and  love  at  an  army  post.     (Oct.) 

•  BAD  COMPANY— RKO-Pathe.— A  gang 
picture  that's  different,  with  Helen  Twelve- 
trees  and  Ricardo  Cortez  doing  some  fine  acting. 
(Nov.) 

•  BAD  GIRL— Fox.— You'll  laugh  and  cry  over 
this,  made  from  the  novel  of  the  same  name. 
Sally  Eilers  is  all  the  girls  who  live  next  door. 
That  new  kid,  James  Dunn,  bears  watching.  Don't 
miss  this  one.     (Sept.) 

•  BARGAIN,  THE— First  National— (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "Fame.")  Beautifully  and 
humanly  told  story  of  everyday  people.  Nothing 
spectacular,  but  full  of  charm.  Doris  Kenyon  heads 
a  perfect  cast.     (June) 

BLACK  CAMEL,  THE— Fox.— Here's  your  old 
pal  Charlie  Chan  (sure,  it's  only  Warner  Oland)  un- 
raveling the  mystery  of  a  movie  star's  murder  in 
Honolulu.  Great  stuff  for  the  mystery-minded  and 
other  folks,  too.     (Sept.) 

BORN  TO  LOVE— RKO-Pathe.— Ancient  plot 
of  the  war  nurse.  Two  officers  and  whose-baby-is-it 
fails  to  be  highly  entertaining  in  spite  of  the  efforts 
of  Constance  Bennett.     (June) 

•  BOUGHT— Warners.— Connie  Bennett  and 
her  father,  Richard,  rip  off  a  real  picture. 
Elegant  acting,  clothes  you'll  be  ca-razy  for,  and  a 
vivid,  human  story.  Ben  Lyon  does  the  best  work 
of  his  career.     (Sept.) 

BRANDED — Columbia. — Good  scenery,  good 
riding,  good  ol'  Buck  Jones.  But  let's  have  less  talk 
and  more  action  in  Westerns.     (Oct.) 

BRAT,  THE— Fox.— Remember  Sally  O'Neil? 
What  a  comeback  the  kid  stages  in  this  old  Maude 
Fulton  comedy-drama.  And  what  a  rough  and 
tumble  fight  she  and  Virginia  Cherrill  havel     (Sept.) 

BROAD  MINDED— First  National.— Joe  E. 
Brown  tries  hard  to  bring  a  lot  of  moribund  jokes  and 
gags  back  to  life,  but  there's  scarcely  a  giggle.   (June) 


BUSINESS    AND    PLEASURE— Fox.- 

Rogers  is  a  riot.     (Oct.) 


-Will 


CAPTAIN  THUNDER— Warners.— A  dull  story 
about  a  Robin-Hoodish  captain  whose  lawless  deeds 
are  all  for  a  good  end.  Victor  Varconi  and  Fay  Wray. 
(July) 

CAUGHT — Paramount. — The  plot  is  pretty  silly. 
Boy  (Dick  Arlen)  finds  mother  (Louise  Dresser)  is 
outlaw  he  was  sent  out  to  get — but  Louise  is  worth 
the  admission.      (Sept.) 

CAUGHT  PLASTERED— Radio  Pictures.— (Re- 
viewed under  the  title  "Full  of  Notions.")— If  you 
like  Wheeler  and  Woolsey,  don't  let  this  get  by  you, 
for  it's  one  of  their  best  comedies  to  date.     (Sepl.) 

CHANCES— First  National.— Young  Doug's  first 
starring  picture  is  a  war  thriller.  The  lad  is  good 
but  the  story  is  so-so.     (July) 

•     CISCO    KID,    THE— Fox.— Warner    Baxter 
makes  the  girls'  hearts  beat  double  time  in  this 
thriller.  The  plot  isn't  new  but  the  treatment  is.  (Nov.) 

•  CITY  STREETS  —  Paramount.  —  Absorbing, 
fast-moving  gang  melodrama,  well  directed. 
Gary  Cooper  and  Sylvia  Sidney  (from  the  New  York 
stage)  give  grand  performances.  Don't  miss  it.  (June) 


iJrief  JXeviews  of 
Current   Pictures 


-fa  Indicates  photoplay  was  named  as  one  of  the  best  upon  Us  month  of  review 


CLEARING  THE  RANGE— Allied.— Hoot  Gib- 
son and  the  wife,  Sally  Eilers,  in  a  fine  Western  with 
thrills,  laughs  and  plenty  of  action.     (June) 

COMMON  LAW,  THE— RKO-Pathe.— A  poor 
adaptation  of  an  old  favorite  but  Constance  Bennett 
is  worth  seeing.     Sophisticated  fare.  (Aug.) 

COMPROMISED— First  National.—  (Reviewed 
under  the  title  "We  Three".)  Just  uh-huh  on  this 
one.  It  neither  bores  nor  thrills.  About  a  million- 
aire.     (Nov.) 


CONFESSIONS  OF  A  CO-ED— Paramount.— 
Not  a  very  convincing  piece  with  Sylvia  Sidney, 
Phillips  Holmes  and  Norman  Foster.  College 
atmosphere.     (Aug.) 


Hollywood's 

Cruelty  to 

Greta  Garbo 


Here,  at  last,  is  the  real  inside 
story  of  why  the  Swedish  star 
has  become  a  hermit  in  the 
gayest  city  in  the  world. 

In  next  month's 

PHOTOPLAY 


•  CONSOLATION  MARRIAGE— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Don't  miss  this  truly  sophisticated  1931 
movie,  with  Irene  Dunne  and  Pat  "Front  Page" 
O'Brien.     (Nov.) 

•  DADDY  LONG  LEGS— Fox.— The  beloved 
classic  with  Janet  Gaynor  in  a  role  just  suited 
to  her  but  just  a  little  too  saccharine.  Warner  Baxter 
as  the  bachelor.     Take  the  family.     (July) 

DANGEROUS  AFFAIR,  A— Columbia.— A  fast- 
moving  and  surprise-filled  "shrieker"  with  Jack  Holt 
and  Ralph  Graves.     (Nov.) 

DAUGHTER  OF  THE  DRAGON— Paramount. 

— Sessue  Hayakawa  and  Anna  May  Wong  in  an 
Oriental  mystery.  Recommended  if  you  like  your 
murders  sinister.     (Oct.) 

DAYBREAK — M-G-M. — The  charming  perform- 
ances of  Helen  Chandler  and  Ramon  Novarro,  as  the 
student  prince,  make  this  romantic  and  wistful  love 
story  well  worth  seeing.     (June) 


DER  GROSSE  TENOR— UFA.— A  slow  moving, 
all-German  talkie  with  Emil  Jannings  in  a  typical 
Jannings  role.    A  song  or  two.     (Aug.) 

•  DEVOTION— RKO-Pathe.— Perfect  cast,  ex- 
cellent direction  and  sparkling  dialogue  make 
this  moth-eaten  plot  a  picture  you  must  not  miss. 
Ann  Harding.     (Nov.) 

DREYFUS  CASE,  THE— Columbia.— An  accu- 
rate account  of  the  famous  Dreyfus-Emile  Zola 
rumpus,  made  in  England  with  a  fine  British  cast. 

(Nov.) 


DUDE  RANCH— Paramount.— Jack  Oakie  woos 
and  wins  June  Collyer  in  this  hilarious  comedy  on  a 
dude  ranch,  locale  of  many  complications.  Not  a  dull 
moment.     (June) 


EAST  OF  BORNEO— Universal.— The  title  tells 
the  story.  Real  Borneo  scenery,  excellent  studio 
"fakes."  Charles  Bickford  and  Rose  Hobart  make 
it  interesting  enough.     (Sept.) 


ENEMIES  OF  THE  LAW— Regal  Prod.— Unless 
you  want  to  see  Lou  Tellegen's  brand  new  face-lift, 
you  can  check  this  off  your  list.  Not  even  Mary 
Nolan's  beauty  compensates  for  that  old  formula 
877 — a  gangster  story.     (Sepl.) 

EVERYTHING'S  ROSIE— Radio  Pictures.— One 
of  the  talkiest  talkies  yet  released.    (July) 

EX-BAD  BOY— Universal.— If  you  like  gag- 
farce,  you'll  get  a  kick  out  of  this.  Robert  Armstrong 
and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  comedy  acting.     (Aug.) 

EXPENSIVE  WOMEN— Warners.— A  pretty  un- 
happy return  to  the  screen  for  Dolores  Costello.  The 
less  said  about  it  the  better.    (Aug.) 

EXPRESS  13— UFA.— A  thrilling  German- 
dialogue  film  that  makes  you  wish  you'd  paid  more 
attention  to  your  German  teacher.     (Oct.) 

FANNY  FOLEY  HERSELF— Radio  Pictures. — 
Edna  May  Oliver's  first  starring  film.  You'll  laugh 
and — what's  more — you'll  cry.  In  Technicolor.  See 
it.     (Oct.) 


FIFTY  FATHOMS  DEEP  —  Columbia— Why 
waste  Jack  Holt  and  Dick  Cromwell  on  that  same  old 
plot?  Oh  sure,  they  are  deep  sea  divers  in  love  with 
one  girl.     (Nov.) 

FIGHTING  SHERIFF,  THE  —  Columbia.  — 
Recommended  for  dyed-in-the-wool  Western  fans. 
Others  will  find  it  just  average  film  fare.  Buck 
Jones  is  the  hero.     (Sept.) 


FIRST  AID — Sono  Art. — In  which  a  lot  of  people 
— Grant  Withers,  Marjorie  Beebe  and  Wheeler  Oak- 
man — do  a  lot  of  unconvincing  things  unconvinc- 
ingly.     (Sept.) 


FIVE  AND  TEN— M-G-M.— Marion  Davies 
with  a  splendid  cast.  Adapted  from  the  Fannie 
Hurst  story — jerky  in  spots.     (Aug.) 

•  FIVE  STAR  FINAL— First  National.— Rush 
to  the  nearest  theater.  You  mustn't  miss 
this  exciting  story  of  tabloid  newspaper  sensa- 
tionalism.     Eddie   Robinson   is  superb.     (Sepl.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  10  ] 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


iL  YELLOW  TICKET 

She  wore  the  brand  of  outcast  as  a  badge  of  courage. 
Trapped  by  Russian  intrigue,  hounded  by  police,  she 
fought  gloriously.  For  love,  she  faced  disgrace. ..through 
love,  she  won  victory. ..Superb  drama,  superbly  acted. 
Elissa  Landi...  exotic,  fascinating.  Lionel  Barry  more... 
polished,  sinister.  Laurence  Olivier... suave,  romantic. 
A  great  story  of  elemental  hate  and  enduring  love! 


WATC-H 
■FOR       , 
T-H-E5-E 

TWO 
CR-EAT     ' 
PICTURE* 
-FROM 


OVER  THE  WILL 

Gay  and  tender  and  deeply  moving,  it  brings  a  lump 
to  your  throat  and  chases  it  with  a  chuckle.  A  true  and 
heart-stirring  tribute  to  love,  brimming  with  action... 
And  what  a  cast!  James  Dunn  and  Sally  Eilers... first 
time  together  since  never-to-be-forgotten  "Bad  Girl." 
Mae  Marsh. ..idol  of  the  silent  days,  and  the  grandest 
bunch  of  kids  you  ever  laughed  yourself  weak  over! 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  8 


FLOOD,  THE— Columbia.— A  weak,  poorly 
directed  story  which  the  good  acting  of  Eleanor 
Boardman  and  Monte  Blue  cannot  save.     (July) 


HOLY  TERROR,  A— Fox— A  two-fisted  West- 
ern with  George  O'Brien.  Good,  wholesome  enter- 
tainment.   (Aug.) 


LAUGHING  SINNERS— M-G-M.— Not  so  good, 
but  if  you  are  a  Joan  Crawford  fan  you  may  like  it. 
Clark  Gable  and  Neil  Hamilton,  too.     (Aug.) 


•  FORBIDDEN  ADVENTURE— (Also  re- 
leased as  Newly  Rich) — Paramount. — An 
entertaining  picture  for  kids  and  grown-ups.  Jackie 
Sear)  and  Mitzi  Green  in  some  swell  acting.  Don't 
miss  it.     (Aug.) 

•  FREE  SOUL,  A— M-G-M.— Norma  Shearer 
and  Lionel  Barrymore  in  a  picture  that  will 
hold  you,  but  in  plot  and  treatment  it's  for  grown-ups 
only.     (July) 

FRIENDS  AND  LOVERS— Radio  Pictures.— 
Adolphe  Menjou.  Eric  Von  Stroheim  and  Lily 
Damita  get  tangled  up  in  an  involved  yarn  that  tries 
to  be  too  sophisticated.     (Oct.) 

GAY  DIPLOMAT,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— Ivan 
Lebedeff  intrigues  the  ladies  (Betty  Compson  and 
Genevieve  Tobin)  in  this  story  of  Balkan  intrigue. 
(Oct.) 

•     GIRL   HABIT,   THE— Paramount.— An   up- 
roarious farce  that  boosts  Charles  Ruggles  to 
stardom.     It's  all  laughs.    See  it!    (Aug.) 

GOLD  DUST  GERTIE— Warners.— Exuberant 
Winnie  Lightner  gambols  through  a  poor  story.  (July) 

GOLDIE— Fox—  If  you  like  lusty,  gusty  stuff, 
this'll  do.  Spencer  Tracy  and  Warren  Hymer  make 
a  new  comedy  team.     (Aug.) 

GOOD  BAD  GIRL,  THE— Columbia.— The  old 
plot  of  the  girl  who  leaves  the  racket  to  marry  and  go 
straight.     (July) 

GRAFT — Universal. — A  fast  action  thriller.  Regis 
Toomey  is  a  dumbbell  reporter  and  Sue  Carol  is 
heart  interest.     (Oct.) 

GREAT  LOVER,  THE  —  M-G-M.  —  Adolphe 
Menjou  breaks  hearts.  Irene  Dunne  breaks  into 
song.      Both  do  good  jobs.     (Sept.) 

•  GUARDSMAN,  THE  —  M-G-M.  —  Alfred 
Lunt  and  Lynn  Fontanne.  You'll  be  ca-razy 
about  them  in  this  sophisticated  comedy.  See  it, 
but  don't  take  the  kids.     (Oct.) 


GUILTY  HANDS— M-G-M.— That  Lionel  Barry- 
more — how  he  can  act!  You  know  he  is  the  murderer, 
but  will  they  discover  his  guilt?  You'd  better  find 
out.      (Sept.) 


HARD  HOMBRE,  THE— Allied— For  kids  and 
grown-ups.  A  novel  Western  with  Hoot  Gibson  and 
Lina  Basquette.     (Oct.) 

HEAVEN  ON  EARTH— Universal.— Recom- 
mended only  for  Lew  Ayres  fans.     (Nov.) 

HELL'S  VALLEY— National  Players.  Ltd.— Very 
little  story,  if  any,  but  lots  of  riding  and  shooting  in 
this  Western,  with  Virginia  Brown  Faire,  Wally  Wales 
and  Vivian  Rich  sharing  the  acting  honors.     (June) 

HIGH  STAKES— Radio  Pictures.— Lowell  Sher- 
man as  an  amateur  detective  is  the  main  reason  for 
seeing  this.  Mae  Murray  is  the  woman  in  the  case. 
(July) 


HOMICIDE  SQUAD  - 

another    gangster    picture. 


Universal.  —  Ho-hum, 
(Nov.) 


HONEYMOON  LANE— Sono  Art.— Not  a  great 
picture,  but  a  delightful  one.  A  nice  romance  be- 
tween Eddie  Dowling  (who  sings)  and  June  Collyer. 
And  that  swell  comic,  Ray  Dooley.     (Sept.) 

HONOR  OF  THE  FAMILY— First  National.— 
Nothing  left  of  the  Balzac  story  but  the  title.  Bebe 
Daniels  is  a  hot-cha-cha  adventuress  heroine.  (Nov.) 

•  HUCKLEBERRY  FINN  —  Paramount.  — 
This  sequel  to  "Tom  Sawyer"  will  cure  the 
blues.  Jackie  Coogan  and  Junior  Durkin  take  you 
back  to  old  swimmin'  hole  days.     (Oct.) 

HUSH  MONEY— Fox.— Another  gangster  film 
and  not  a  very  thrilling  one.  Joan  Bennett  and 
Hardie  Albright  try  hard.     (Aug.) 

I  LIKE  YOUR  NERVE  —  First  National.— 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.,  acts  just  like  his  father  did 
in  "The  Americano."  He  does  it  well,  too.  The 
story  is  weak.     (Sept.) 

IMMORTAL  VAGABOND,  THE— UFA.— A 
edious  Tyrolian  story  without  a  single  yodel.  Nice 
scenery,  good  acting,  English  dialogue.    (Oct.) 

INDISCREET  —  United  Artists.  —  Good,  enter- 
taining story.  Gloria  Swanson  sings  well.  Ben  Lyon 
and  Arthur  Lake  great  support.     (June) 

IRON  MAN — Universal. — Lew  Ayres  is  starred  as 
the  prize-fighter  but  Bob  Armstrong,  in  the  role  of 
manager,  steals  the  picture.  Jean  Harlow  plays  her 
usual  vamp  role.     (June) 

I  TAKE  THIS  WOMAN— Paramount.— A 
wheezy  old  plot  dressed  up  for  Gary  Cooper  and 
Carole  Lombard.     Just  another  movie.     (Aug.) 

JUST  A  GIGOLO— M-G-M.— William  Haines  in 
a  spicy,  amusing  offering.  But  leave  the  children  at 
home.     (July) 

KICK  IN — Paramount. — They  tried  hard  to  make 
Clara  Bow  dramatic,  sympathetic  and  emotional  in 
this  one.     Regis  Toomey  is  great.     (July) 

LADIES'  MAN — Paramount. — William  Powell  as 
a  sympathetic  and  attractive  gigolo,  charms  Olive 
Teli.  Carole  Lombard  and  Kay  Francis.  Entertain- 
ing picture.   (June) 

•     LARCENY     LANE  —  Warners.    —    James 
Cagney  and  Joan   Blondell  in  another  "crook 
picture"  that's  top-notch  entertainment.     (Oct.) 

LASCA  OF  THE  RIO  GRANDE— Universal.— 
Just  another  Western — but  this  one  is  South  of  the 
Rio  Grande.  Fair  entertainment  with  Johnny  Mack 
Brown,  Leo  Carillo  and  Dorothy   Burgess.      (Sept.) 

LAST  FLIGHT,  THE— First  National.— Gay 
aviators  in  Paris  make  the  first  half  grand,  but  the 
somber  part  is  not  so  good.  Richard  Barthelmess' 
work  is  overshadowed  by  the  others  in  the  cast.  (Oct.) 


LAWLESS  WOMAN,  THE— Chesterfield  Pic- 
tures.— An  uninteresting,  unimportant  film.  A 
gangster-newspaper  plot,  poorly  done.     (^4  ug.) 

•  LAWYER'S  SECRET,  THE— Paramount  — 
Clive  Brook,  Charles  Rogers,  Richard  Arlen, 
Fay  Wray  and  Jean  Arthur  give  fine  performances. 
Intense  drama.     (July) 

*LE   MILLION— Tobis   Production.— It's  not 
necessary  to  understand  the  language  to  get 
all  the  fun  out  of  this  French  musical  farce.    (Aug.) 

LOVER  COME  BACK— Columbia.— Betty  Bron- 
son  changing  her  type  with  rather  sorry  results.  (A  ug.) 


MAD  GENIUS,  THE— Warners.— Magnificently 
produced  and  photographed,  but  John  Barrymore's 
artistry  is  so  perfect  in  an  unsympathetic  role  that  the 
story  leaves  a  bad  taste.     (July) 


MAD  PARADE,  THE— Liberty  Productions.— 
The  woman's  side  of  the  war  done  brilliantly  by  an 
all-feminine  cast.     (July) 


MAGNIFICENT  LIE,  THE— Paramount.— Not 
up  to  the  standard  of  most  Ruth  C  hatterton  films.  But 
there's  a  new  young  man  named  Ralph  Bellamy 
who  is  particularly  good.     (Sept.) 


•  MALTESE  FALCON,  THE  —  Warners.  — 
Gripping  mystery  story  from  the  novel  by  the 
same  name.  The  sleek  Ricardo  Corter  plays  the 
demon  detective  superbly  and  Bebe  Daniels  does  ex- 
cellent work.     Don't  miss  it.     (June) 


MAN  IN  POSSESSION,  THE— M-G-M  — 
Robert  Montgomery  in  a  spicy  comedy  full  of  situa- 
tions and  sparkling  lines.     Amusing.     (Aug.) 

MEET  THE  WIFE— Columbia.— Lew  Cody  and 
Laura  La  Ptente  excellent  in  a  hilarious  farce  taken 
from  the  old  stage  play.     Plenty  of  laughs.     (June) 

MEN  ARE  LIKE  THAT— Columbia.  —  (Also 
shown  underthe  title  of  "Arizona".)  Laura  La  Plante 
and  John  Wayne  find  life  and  love  at  an  army 
post.     (Oct.) 

MEN  OF  THE  SKY— First  National.— Yep,  it's 
an  aviation  war  story—  but  it's  pretty  flimsy  stuff. 
Irene  Delroy  and  Jack  Whiting.     (Sept.) 


•  MERELY  MARY  ANN— Fox— Take  your 
hankie  to  this  one,  but  be  sure  to  go.  Not 
since  "7th  Heaven"  have  Charlie  Farrell  and  Janet 
Gaynor  been  so  whimsical  and  idyllic.     (Sept.) 


MERRY  WIVES  OF  VIENNA,  THE— Super 
Film. — Even  if  you  no  speak  Deutsch,  you'll  enjoy 
this.  Rippling  waltzes  and  sparkling  gayety  make 
this  foreign  film  worthwhile.     (Sept.) 


•  MIRACLE  WOMAN,  THE— Columbia  — 
A  well  staged,  directed,  and  photographed 
picture  with  Barbara  Stanwyck  doing  her  best  work 
as  a  female  evangelist.     (Aug.) 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  16  ] 


Photoplays  Reviewed  in  the  Shadow  Stage  This  Issue 


Save  this  magazine — refer  to  the  criticisms  before  you  pic\  out  your  evening's  entertainment.    hda\e  this  your  reference  list. 

Page 

Platinum  Blonde — Columbia 46 

Range  Feud,  The — Columbia 49 

Riders  of  the  Purple  Sage — Fox 49 

Secret  Service — Radio  Pictures 48 


Page 

Ambassador  Bill — Fox 49 

Are  These  Our  Children? — Radio 

Pictures 47 

Beloved  Bachelor,  The — Paramount         49 

Captivation — Capital  Prod 122 

Champ,  The— M-G-M 47 

Convicted — Supreme  Features 122 

Cuban  Love  Song,  The— M-G-M 46 

Girls  About  Town — Paramount 48 

Grief  Street — Chesterfield 122 


Page 

Heartbreak — Fox 48 

Hurricane  Horseman,  The — Willis  Kent 

Prod 122 

In  Line  of  Duty — Monogram  Prod.  .  .    122 


Leftover  Ladies — Tiffany  Prod 49 

Local  Boy  Makes  Good — First  National  48 
Love  Storm,  The — British  International  122 

Night  Raid— Osso  Prod 122 

Once  a  Lady — Paramount 48 

One  Way  Trail,  The — Columbia 122 


Sin  of  Madelon  Claudet,  The— M-G-M .  46 
Spirit  of  Notre  Dame,  The — Universal.  47 

Strictly  Dishonorable — Universal 48 

Terror  by  Night — Famous  Attractions.  122 
Way  Back  Home— Radio  Pictures.  ...   49 


m 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


I  I 


buck! 

With  a 

blanch 
new    * 

LIN&! 


\\ 


blon 


Dt 


CAGNlY 


witK, 

James' 
andJOANBLONDtU 

NOEL  FRANCIS 


CRAZY 


Here's  Jimmy,  in  a  red-hot  laugh-riot! .. . 
He's  just  crazy  about  blondes  .  .  .  Tall 
ones! — short  ones! — fat  ones!— They  go 
to  his  head  .  .  .  They  go  to  his  heart  .  .  . 
The  blonder  they  come  the  harder  he  falls 
.  .  .  And  what  a  team  Jimmy  and  Joan 
make!  .  .  .  Sizzling!  ...  A  love  team 
loaded  with  laughs!  Don't  miss  seeiug 
our  red-headed  rascal  put  over  his  new 
line  in  "Blonde  Crazy." 

RAY  MIIXAND 

Story  by  Kubec  (.la- n  and  John  Bright 

Directed    by   ROY    DEL   RUTH 


II 


A  WARNER  BROS.  &  VITAPHONE  PICTURE 


Ihe   Aud 


lence 


S 


pea 


k 


u 


p 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  6  ] 

He  is  my  favorite  100  per  cent,  and  has  more 
admirers  for  the  few  pictures  he  has  made  than 
anyone  I  know.  Why  all  the  hooey  about 
Clark  Gable?  Let's  give  Howard  a  hand.  He 
deserves  it. 

Helen  Chapman,  Waukesha,  Wis. 

THOSE  THIEVES! 

Picture  stealers  of  the  month:  Irving  Pichel, 
the  prosecuting  attorney  in  "An  American  Trag- 
edy." Monroe  Owsley  as  the  inevitable  drunk 
in  "This  Modern  Age."  Johnny  Hines  in 
"The  Runaround."  Joan  Blondell  in  "Big 
Business  Girl." 

Willie  Mae  Adams,  Chattanooga,  Tenn. 

NIGHT  NURSE 

Many  questions  are  answered  in  Barbara 
Stanwyck's  "Night  Nurse."  Would  that  all 
mothers  of  nurses  could  see  it.  They  would 
not  be  so  shocked  when  their  daughters  come 
home  on  vacations  and  they  would  know  why 
they  speak  a  different  language,  so  strange 
sounding  to  their  parents. 

Mrs.  A.  F.  Meis,  Dubuque,  Iowa 

A  TRAILER  BOUQUET 

I  think  the  talkie  trailer  is  a  great  advantage 
in  helping  movie  fans  to  pronounce  the  stars' 
names. 

Often  I  have  not  known  how  to  pronounce 
such   names  as  Menjou,  Eilers  and  Colbert, 


Keystone 

Comical  Eddie  Cantor  picks  a  pippin ! 
Eddie,  scouting  for  beauty  for  his  next 
talkie,  was  handed  his  Java  by  this 
peach,  Adele  Bailey,  nineteen,  of 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y.  He  promised  her  a 
screen  test.  U  she  passes,  it'll  be 
from    flapjacks    to  closeups  for  her 

12 


It's  happened !   Ronald  Colman  is  playing  an  American  at  last — the  name 

role  in  "Arrowsmith,"  by  the  famous  Sinclair  Lewis.     Ronnie  plays  a 

country  doctor  who  becomes  a  great  bacteriologist  and  fights  plagues. 

With  him  here  is  Helen  Hayes,  his  leading  woman 


but  as  soon  as  I    saw  the  trailers  my  diffi- 
culties were  over. 
Mrs.  Walter  S.  Moody,  Lake  City,  S.  C. 

TIP  FOR  MOTHERS 

Mothers  in  our  town  have  found  the  perfect 
solution  for  the  birthday  party  problem .  They 
entertain  at  an  early  supper,  then  take  the 
entire  party  to  the  local  movie  house.  The 
manager  of  the  theater  cooperates  with 
mothers  by  flashing  birthday  greetings  to  the 
fete-day  child  upon  the  screen.  These  parties 
minimize  a  mother's  worry  and  are  less  tiring 
and  upsetting  to  the  children. 

Phyllis-Maree  Arthur,  Lowville,  N.  Y. 

AN  ARGUMENT 

I  have  just,  been  reading  the  New  York  Sun 
and  notice  that  the  movie  critic  says  that 
Leslie  Howard  steals  Ann  Harding's  new 
picture  "Devotion."  He  doesn't  do  anything  of 
the  kind.  He  is  fine  for  his  part — couldn't  be 
better  (and  besides  he  is  one  of  my  favorite 
actors),  but  he's  not  a  bit  better  for  his  part 
than  Ann  Harding  is  for  hers.  She's  beautiful 
and  natural  and  believable.  Good  to  look  at 
and  to  hear.    What  more  can  you  ask? 

I  agree  with  the  Sun  critic  that  the  story  is 
weak — but  I  think  Ann  Harding  is  fine  and 
makes  the  weak  story  into  good  entertainment. 
I  want  to  see  these  two  fine  actors  in  a  better 
story. 

Henrietta  Fisk,  Harrison,  N.  Y. 

MAKE  'EM  WICKED 

The  movie  powers  that  be  are  coming  to 
their  senses  and  are  beginning  to  realize  that 


the  public  is  weary  of  the  saccharine-sweet 
virtuous  type  of  heroine  and  hero  that  was  so 
popular  in  the  dim,  dead  days  beyond  recall. 
In  that  era  Mr.  Movie  Mogul  would  have 
sooner  shot  his  own  mother  than  try  to  force 
upon  a  fickle  public  players  like  Clark  Gable 
and  Tallulah  Bankhead.  Goldilocks  and 
Sleeping  Beauty's  Prince  are  dead !  Long  live 
Cinderella's  step-sisters  and  Bluebeard.  It's 
the  pinch  of  salt  that  brings  out  the  flavor. 
Maurice  Jacobs,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


SERMONS  IN  CELLULOID 

I  think  Marion  Davies  in  "Five  and  Ten" 
teaches  a  heart-rending  lesson.  I  feel  it  is  far 
more  impressive  than  sermons  preached  on  the 
breaking  up  of  the  American  home. 

A.  B.  Whiting,  North  Hanover,  Mass. 

THE  FIVE  FOOT  SHELF 

You  may  be  interested  to  know  that  I  have 
a  Photoplay  magazine  for  every  month  in  the 
year  including  the  first  issue,  and  that  I  have 
kept  a  diary  of  every  motion  picture  I  have 
seen  with  players'  names,  dates  and  cities  in 
which  I  have  seen  them. 

Madeline  Nagle,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

ZOWIE! 

I  sometimes  wish  that  the  movie  stars  might 
see  their  images,  free  of  glamour.  Only  in  this 
way  could  they  ever  be  able  to  know  just  how 
ridiculous  they  are— pretending  indifference, 
assuming  a  worldly  wise  pose,  imitating  wild 
youth — such  utter  nonsense.     They  are  not 


With  Brickbats  &  £> 


ouquets 


Up  in  the  air  goes  Evelyn  Asther  in  the  arms  of  Papa  Nils,  while  Mamma 

Vivian  Duncan  Asther  looks  on  proudly.    Though  born  in  Germany  of  an 

American  mamma,  Evelyn  is  a  Swedish  citizen.     And  doesn't  Nils  look 

young  and  handsome?    How  about  a  good  talkie  part  for  him? 


celestial  beings  to  whom  earthly  people  must 
humbly  bow.  Instead,  they  are  merely  men 
and  women,  like  you  and  me,  neither  better  nor 
worse. 

Eva  Anttonen,  Worcester,  Mass. 

STARTING  SOMETHING? 

Why  don't  they  give  Joan  Crawford  some 
good  stories?  Even  though  Garbo  and  Shearer 
are  fair  they  do  not  have  the  acting  ability  and 
looks  that  Joan  has.  Garbo  and  Shearer  get 
all  the  breaks  and  the  best  stories. 

Jessie  Conner,  Fort  Worth,  Texas 

AMERICA'S  SWEETHEART 

Why  don't  the  fans  give  Mary  Pickford  a 
break  and  crowd  the  box-office  on  her  next 
picture?  Have  they  forgotten  "America's 
Sweetheart"?  How  could  they?  Didn't  she 
work  hard  to  please  her  public  and  fame  never 
went  to  her  head. 

There's  something  about  Mary  that  the 
others  just  haven't  got. 

Ann  Whitney,  Chicago,  111. 

SNICKERS  WANTED 

We  have  with  us  tonight  those  who  love 
drama  and  the  art  that  makes  for  its  produc- 
tion, but  above  the  tragedians  we  bless  those 
who  make  us  laugh  our  troubles  away.  May  I 
cite  ZaSu  Pitts  as  the  reigning  comedienne  of 
the  cinema? 

The  scenes  she  dominated  with  her  clever- 
ness in  "The  Big  Gamble"  and  "The  Guards- 
man" will  not  soon  be  forgotten. 

Robert  Downing,  Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa 


JANET  AND  CHARLIE 

Janet  Gaynor  and  Charles  Farrell  are  just  as 
romantic  after  both  have  married.  "Merely 
Mary  Ann"  was  great  and  we  fans  are  glad  to 
see  them  back  together  again. 

Marie  Manders,  Green  Bay,  Wis. 

IDOL  OR  HEAVY 

Lost,  strayed  or  stolen — one  splendid  char- 
acter actor  and  magnificent  heavy.  Found — 
Clark  Gable,  the  great  lover,  the  matinee  idol. 
He'll  last  one  year  at  most,  until  Clark  has  one 
of  his  pictures  stolen  by  some  other  smart  and 
sex-appealing  villain.  Clark  might  have  been 
the  darling  of  the  public  had  he  not  chosen  to 
strut  and  pose  and  grin  for  the  matinee  trade. 
Ruth  Graves,  Philadelphia,  Penna. 

MORE  AROUT  CLARK 

Please  don't  make  a  "sheik"  out  of  the  one 
and  only  Clark  Gable.  Leave  him  as  he  was  in 
"Sporting  Blood"  and  "Laughing  Sinners." 
To  ask  him  to  go  into  the  desert,  all  wrapped 
up  like  a  sore  finger  in  some  bed  sheets  and  a 
towel  around  his  head,  would  be  just  plain 
murder  of  a  new  idol.  Gable  is  a  man,  not  a 
sheik.    Please  don't  spoil  the  illusion. 

Sally  Parsels,  Orangeburg,  N.  Y. 

THAT  TRAGEDY 

After  the  seemingly  endless  procession  of 
song  and  dance  pictures,  the  melodramatic  and 
sickeningly  sweet  Gaynor-Farrell  type  of 
things,  the  "who  killed  Cock  Robin?"  stuff  and 
the  gangster  boy  who  paid  and  paid,  it  is  a 
decided   relief   to  see  such   pictures  as   "An 


American  Tragedy"  and  "  Street  Scene."  The 
production  of  such  pictures  is  a  definite  step 
forward  and  a  concession  to  the  intelligence  of 
the  theater-going  public. 

Marjorie  Lyle,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

"STREET  SCENE" 

May  I  express  my  appreciation  of  "Street 
Scene"?  After  all  the  cheap  sexy  trash,  we  are 
grateful  that  one  producer  gives  us  credit  for 
normal  adult  intelligence.  It  absorbed  our 
interest  while  there  and  it  sent  us  home  a  little 
finer  than  when  we  went. 

Florence  Wagner,  Glen  Ellyn,  111. 

I  have  a  university  degree  which  includes  a 
minor  in  sociology  but  I  have  never  had  a 
sociology  course  that  was  as  graphic  and  stir- 
ring as  the  picture,  "Street  Scene." 

Helen  E.  Dunn,  Holland,  Ohio 

I  would  like  to  ask  somebody  whoever  had 
the  nerve  to  release  "Street  Scene"?  I  have 
never  seen  a  less  entertaining,  near  nothing 
than  that.  I  had  to  stay  and  see  Flip,  the  Frog 
and  Charlie  Chase  over  again  to  take  the  bad 
taste  away. 

Fae  Walker,  Norfolk,  Va. 

SING,  RAMON,  SING 

What  about  Ramon  Novarro?  Why  don't 
they  wake  up  and  give  him  a  good  picture? 
Quit  thinking  of  Garbo  all  the  time.  "Day- 
break" and  "Son  of  India"  are  about  two  of 
the  rottenest  pictures  of  the  year.    A  man  with 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE   14  ] 


Frosted  Yellow  Willows  at  the  age  of 
eighteen  months,  and  wearing  her 
best  go-to-temple  hat.  In  other  words, 
Anna  May  Wong  in  babyhood.  Of 
course,  you  know  she's  never  been  to 
China.  But  she  did  all  right  in  Los 
Angeles'  Chinatown,  as  this  attests 

1.1 


The  Audience  Speaks  Up 


a  silver  voice — yet  they  refuse  to  let  him  sing. 
Ramon  is  just  about  the  best  on  the  screen 
when  they  give  him  a  Novarro  rdle. 

James  Adams,  Birmingham,  Ala. 

"BAD  GIRL" 

I  want  to  express  appreciation  of  what  I  con- 
sider the  best  illustrations  of  real,  natural 
acting  since  the  advent  of  sound  pictures,  and 
that  is  the  splendid  performance  of  James 
Dunn  in  "  Bad  Girl."  Personally  I  disliked  the 
book,  and  my  attitude  when  I  went  into  the 
theater  was  rather  one  of  scorn,  but  I  went  in 
"to  mock  and  remained  to  praise."  Sally 
Eilers,  too,  merits  praise  for  her  characteriza- 
tion of  the  girl 

Clementine  Japour,  St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

There  isn't  a  married  person  in  the  whole 
world  who  won't  weep  and  laugh  and  know 
sorrow  and  have  moments  of  divine  happiness 
return  while  seeing  "Bad  Girl."  There  never 
was  a  more  human  picture  made. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Fair,  Augusta,  Ga. 


SNOW  SCENES 

I  do  not  see  it  commented  on  very  much,  but 
as  an  artist  I  am  entranced  with  the  beautiful 
scenic  photography  more  than  anything  else. 
Especially  is  this  true  of  most  of  Ramon 
Novarro's  pictures  and  also  most  of  the  shots 
in  "The  Southerner."  It  is  so  satisfying  to 
watch  a  lovely  snowfall  and  as  I  have  never 
really  seen  one,  I  doubly  enjoyed  the  ones  in 
"Inspiration"  and  "Seed." 

Winifred  Powell,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

MORE  OPINIONS 

I  do  not  think  that  an  actress  needs  glamour 
to  be  good. 

Mary  E.  Crabtree,  Gardner,  Mass. 

Let  us  enjoy  more  of  the  real  acting  in  which 
the  artist  impersonates  a  character  other  than 
his  own.  George  Arliss,  Chic  Sale  and  others 
are  a  real  joy. 

Mrs.  Emma  Box,  San  Diego,  Calif. 

In  "A  Free  Soul"  Norma  Shearer  was  not 
the  star.     It  was  Lionel  Barrymore's  picture. 
J.  W.  Carroll,  Chicago,  111. 

It  seems  strange  that  very  few  letters  com- 
mend or  criticize  the  work  of  a  director. 
Second  only  to  the  cast  is  the  man  who  directed 
the  picture. 

Roxle  Le  Roy,  Cleveland,  Ohio 

I  am  getting  tired  of  these  sexy  pictures  like 
"  Night  Nurse."  After  all,  what  did  she  do  but 
marry  a  bootlegger? 

Anne  Lyle  Stall,  Chicago,  111. 

Now  at  last  the  picture  companies  have 
begun  to  wake  up  and  realize  that  the  gangster 
pictures  have  made  wrecks  of  the  American 
juvenile. 

Jack  Lesser,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

OPINIONS  FROM  ABROAD 

When  we  came  here  two  years  ago,  we  had 
no  amusements.  I  was  often  so  homesick  I  felt 
like  throwing  up  the  sponge.  And  then  an 
enterprising  Dutchman  opened  up  a  talking 
movie  theater.  My  husband  and  I  go  every 
Saturday  night  and  look  forward  to  it  like 
school  kids.  The  pictures  are  a  little  late  but 
we  enjoy  them  and  don't  grudge  the  $1.25  a 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE   13  ] 

stat.  cither.     We  feel  nearer  to  the  good  old 
U.  S.  A. 

Mrs.  Jeanie  Clark,  Aruba, 

Dutch  West  Indies 


JOHN  BULL  SPEAKING 

Whatever  doubts  we  may  have  had  for  the 
success  of  your  American  talkies  have  been 
forever  dispelled.  I  have  seen  and  heard  Grace 
Moore  in  "Jenny  Lind."  When  we  see  pictures 
like  this  we,  who  live  in  a  remote  corner  of 
Wales,  realize  what  a  tremendous  service  is 
rendered  by  the  talkies. 
Hilda  Thomas,  Barmworth,  North  Wales 

LA  BELLE  FRANCE 


You,  in  America,  have  so  many  good  actors 
and  actresses,  who  understand  to  play  the  true 


Look  for 

The  Winners! 

Maybe  you  or  a  friend  will 
be  found  to  have  taken  one 
of  the  70  prizes  in  Photo' 
play's  $5,000  Cut  Picture 
Puzzle  Contest.  Announce' 
ment  will  be  made  in  the 
next,  the 

JANUARY 

issue  of 

PHOTOPLAY 

On  sale  at  all  newsstands 
on  or  about  December  10. 


life  and  not  only  the  show.  But  in  France  we 
don't  see  many  of  your  pictures,  because 
French  people,  as  in  all  nations,  like  better 
their  own  players  who  are  not  very  numerous 
and  not  always  human.  But  I  love  your 
talkies  and  keep  myself  aware  of  what  happens 
in  Hollywood. 

Blanche  Flajollet,  Lyons,  France 

FROM  LONDON 

We  like  American  talkies.  Clara  Bow  was 
and  is  still  popular.  We  like  most  of  all  your 
films  because  they  show  young,  lively,  quick, 
energetic  and  sometimes  a  sentimental  and  a 
childish  spirit.  We  liked  "Hell's  Angels," 
"The  Big  House"  and  "Trader  Horn."  We 
could  not  make  them. 

Luzanne  Beuzi,  London,  England 


AUSTRALIA  HEARD  FROM 

I  am  the  wife  of  a  business  man  who  can 
spend  but  very  little  time  in  my  company  and 
most  of  my  friends  live  in  other  states.  If  it 
weren't  for  the  talkies  and  the  splendid  actors 
and  actresses  I  would  be  a  lonely  woman. 
Mrs.  E.  S.  Adams,  Victoria,  Australia 

WE  BLUSH 

I  shall  continue  to  subscribe  for  Photoplay 
in  spite  of  the  ten  cent  movie  magazines.  It  is 
worth  the  difference.  Your  articles  are  more 
daring.  Not  afraid  to  say  the  truth  even 
though  it  seems  to  dim  the  stars  sometimes. 

Lydia  Hollingsworth,  Manderbille,  La. 

Please  do  not  in  this  depression  lower  the 
price  of  Photoplay.  I  have  seen  other  mag- 
azines on  sale  for  ten  cents  and  that's  all 
they're  worth.  I  gladly  pay  twenty-five  cents 
for  yours  and  find  it  is  worth  it.  James  Quirk's 
editorials  are  so  fine  and  sincere.  Cal  York's 
tid-bits  the  best  movie  news  I  have  ever  read. 

Dorothy  M.  Goldenberg,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 

I  like  your  new  colored  photographs.  They 
are  a  great  improvement  over  the  conventional 
black  and  white  and  must  save  the  Answer 
Man  a  lot  of  work  by  showing  plainly  the  color 
of  the  eyes  and  the  hair,  which  are  factors  very 
dear  to  the  hearts  of  us  fans. 

Elva  A.  Smith,  Portland,  Ore. 

HAPPY  ENDINGS 

Honestly,  do  people  ever  get  bored  with 
happy  endings?  I  don't.  So  please  do  put  a 
stop  to  so  many  sad  ones.  One  can  "emote" 
with  the  actors  and  share  all  kinds  of  trouble, 
but  please  send  us  home  with  a  smile. 

Mrs.  L.  La  Fontisee,  Gainesville,  Fla. 

NO  CUSTARD  PIES? 

Because  of  the  triteness  of  the  short  comedy, 
I  prefer  the  double  feature  program.  The  very 
great  majority  of  two-reelers  are  hackneyed 
plots  that  have  been  used  over  and  over  again. 
Can't  we  have  better  stories  for  these  shorts? 
The  double  feature  program  makes  a  show  too 
long  but  a  long  show  is  infinitely  preferable  to 
a  comedy  which  is  not  amusing  and  which 
leaves  a  bad  taste  in  your  mouth. 

A.  J.  Parr,  Chicago,  111. 

"MONKEY  BUSINESS" 

Three  cheers  for  the  Marx  Brothers  in 
"Monkey  Business."  When  it  came  here  they 
gave  a  morning  matinee  for  children  at  reduced 
prices.  As  I  am  twelve  years  old  my  girl  friend 
and  I  took  advantage  of  that  and  when  we 
finally  got  in  after  nearly  thirty  minutes  of 
standing  in  line,  we  sat  through  two  hours  of 
grand  entertainment.  When  it  was  over  the 
noise  of  cheering  would  break  anybody's  ear- 
drums. 

Lucille  Bull,  Tampa,  Fla. 

SUBTLE 

What  a  relief  to  see  a  villain  who  does  not 
resort  to  such  obviousness  as  talking  out  of  the 
side  of  his  mouth  or  wrinkling  up  his  face  in 
order  to  express  a  menacing  character.  •  Clark 
Gable  assumes  his  character  with  such  subtlety 
as  to  be  completely  convincing. 

Edna  Ludvvig,  Buckhurst,  L.  I. 


If. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,,  1931 


!5 


ISTHERE  A 
SUBSTITUTE 
FOR  LOVE? 


•  As  interesting  as  "Hell's  Angels" 
—  as  true  to  life  as  "The  Front 
Page,"  this  great  picture  answers 
the  question  —  "Can  the  HOME 
survive  modernism?" 

•  It  is  a  modern  picture  based  on 
the  day's  most  common  problem  — 
should  the  young  wife  work?  It  will 
grip  you  —  interest  you  —  entertain 
you — let  you  see  behind  the  scenes 
of  life's  greatest  drama. 

•  "The  Age  For  Love"  is  now  ready 
for  release.  Take  the  whole  family 
for  a  memorable  evening's  enjoy- 
ment. 

"UNITED  ARTISTS  PICTURE" 


oward  Hughe 


GE  rci 
LOVE 


FROM  ERNEST  PASCALS 
SENSATIONAL  NOVEL 

WITH 
BILLIE  DOVE  .  CHARLES  STARRETT 
LOIS  WILSON  .  MARY  DUNCAN 
EDWARD    EVERETT    HORTON 

FRANK  LLOYD  PRODUCTION 


WATCH    FOR    NEWSPAPER   ANNOUNCEMENT 


i6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


She  wanted 

PRE 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FKOM  PAGE  10  ] 


Could  she  know 

that  a  career 
meant  bondage? 


LEFTOVER 
LADIES' 

Bored  by  the  hum-drum  existence 
of  married  life — fired  by  ambition 
to  make  her  own  way — she  stepped 
from  a  heaven  of  love  and  protec- 
tion into  an  inferno  of  blasted 
hopes.  "Leftover  Ladies" — power- 
ful drama  of  modern  woman's 
struggle  for  a  place  in  the  sun  — 
is  based  on  an  article  by  Ursula 
Parrott,  famous  author  of  "Ex- 
Wife"  and  "Strangers  May  Kiss." 

featuring 

CLAUDIA  DELL— WALTER  BYRON 
MARJORIE   RAMBEAU 

Directed  by  .  .  ERIE  C.  KENTON 
Produced  by     .     SAM  BISCHOFF 

"Keep  Your  Eyes  On  Tiffany 
Pictures"  for  the  finest  enter- 
tainment on  the  screen.  You 
won't  want  to  miss  those  smash- 
ing, dashing  westerns  featuring 
Ken  Maynard  and  Bob  Steele 
— "Murder  At  Midnight,"  hair- 
raising    mystery    thriller 

—  "Morals  For  Women"  with 
Bessie  Love  and  Conway  Tearle 

—  and  Leo  Carrillo  in  the 
James  Cruze  super  -  special 
"Race  Track." 

TiFmnv 

PRODUCTIONS,  INC. 


MONKEY  BUSINESS  —  Paramount.  —  Messrs. 
Marx,  Marx,  Marx  &  Marx  in  another  outbreak  of 
assorted  lunacy.  No  beginning,  no  end — just  gor- 
geous nonsense.     (Oct.) 


MONSTERS  OF  THE  DEEP— Nat.  Spitzer 
Prod. — Fishing  adventures  in  Magdalena  Bay,  off  the 
Mexican  coast,  where  mammoth  fish  abound.  For 
fish  fans.    (July) 


MOTHER  AND  SON  —  Monogram  Prod.  — 
Another  Reno  story,  with  Clara  Kimball  Young  as 
Faro  Lil.     (Oct.) 

MURDER  AT  MIDNIGHT— Tiffany  Prod.— 
Yep,  it's  a  mystery  story  and  a  swell  onel  Alice 
White,  in  a  small  part,  has  a  sex-appeal  voice.    (Oct.) 

MURDER  BY  THE  CLOCK— Paramount.— 
With  such  a  cast,  headed  by  Lilyan  Tashman,  this 
should  have  been  swell.  But  alas!  and  alackl  this 
gruesome,  murder  story  is  nothing  but  gruesome. 
(Sept.) 

MY  SIN— Paramount.— Tallulah  Bankhead  and 
Fredric  March  in  one  of  those  "should  a  woman  tell 
her  past?"  things.    (Nov.) 

MYSTERY  OF  LIFE,  THE— Classic— Clarence 
Darrow  and  a  Smith  College  zoology  professor  ex- 
plain evolution.  Uh-huh,  it's  as  dull  as  it  sounds. 
(Sept.) 

MYSTERY  TRAIN,  THE— Darmour  Prod.— Old 
school  mystery  melodrama  with  plenty  of  sure-fire 
hokum  and  suspense.     (Nov.) 

NEVER  THE  TWAIN  SHALL  MEET— M-G-M. 
— Lavishly  produced  remake  of  the  old  silent,  but 
not  nearly  so  good.  Leslie  Howard  great  in  some 
scenes.    (June) 

•  NEW  ADVENTURES  OF  GET-RICH- 
QUICK  WALLINGFORD,  THE— M-G-M  — 
And  they  said  William  Haines  was  slipping!  See  this 
knock-out  comedy  with  Billy  and  the  coming  big 
shot,  Jimmy  Durante,  to  be  convinced  they're 
wrong.      (Nov.) 

NEWLY  RICH— See  FORBIDDEN  ADVEN- 
TURE. 


NIGHT  ANGEL,  THE— Paramount.— A  bad 
display  for  the  talents  of  Nancy  Carroll  and  Fredric 
March.    (Aug.) 


•  NIGHT  NURSE— Warners.— Drag  out  your 
pet  adjectives,  go  see  this  and  use  'em.  It's 
great.  Barbara  Stanwyck,  Ben  Lyon  and  a  grand 
cast.    (Aug.) 

OLD  SONG,  THE  (Das  Alte  Lied)— Austrian 
Cinderella.  Lil  Dagover  brightens  it  considerably. 
German  dialogue.      (Nov.) 

PAGAN  LADY— Columbia.— The  SadieThompson 
theme  in  a  new  dress,  with  Evelyn  Brent  wearing  it 
becomingly.     (Nov.) 

•     PALMY   DAYS— United   Artists.— A    typical 
Eddie  Cantor-and-nonsense  show  that  should 
bring  film  musicals  back.     (Oct.) 

PARDON  US— Hal  Roach— M-G-M— Laurel  and 
Hardy  in  a  lot  of  hokum.     Funny.     (Oct.) 

PARISIAN,  THE— Capital  Prod.— This  attempt 
at  a  smart  story  made  in  England  with  Adolphe 
Menjou  and  Elissa  Landi  proves  that  these  glamour 
kids  get  that  way  in  Hollywood.   (Nov.) 

PARTY  HUSBAND — First  National. — Dorothy 
Mackaill  and  James  Rennie  work  hard  as  the  newly- 
weds,  but  the  story  is  weak.     (June) 

PENROD  AND  SAM— First  National.— If  you 
haven't  forgotten  how  it  feels  to  be  a  kid  you'll  love 
Leon  Janney  and  Junior  Coghlan  in  this.     (Nov.) 


PERSONAL  MAID— Paramount.— Nancy  Car- 
roll gets  all  mixed  up  in  a  namby-pamby  plot.   (Nov.) 

PHANTOM  OF  PARIS,  THE— M-G-M.— (Re- 
viewed under  the  title  "Cheri  Bibi.")  Jack  Gilbert 
in  an  entertaining  drama.  Lots  of  tragedy,  but  a 
happy  ending  and  Leila  Hyams  as  the  heroine.  Well 
worth  seeing.     (June) 


•  POLITICS  —  M-G-M.  —  Polly  Moran  and 
Marie  Dressier  start  you  off  with  a  giggle  and 
you'll  laugh  all  the  way  through  the  picture.  Don't 
miss  these  two  attempting  to  clean  up  the  town. 
(Sept.) 

PRIVATE  SCANDAL,  A  —  Headline  Prod.— 
Another  underworld  story  in  which  the  crook  re- 
forms.    (Oct.) 

PUBLIC  DEFENDER,  THE— Radio  Pictures. 
— After  "Cimarron"  you  expect  too  much  of  Richard 
Dix.  That's  why  this  story  of  a  man  who  brings  a 
gang  of  crooks  to  justice  is  disappointing.     (Sept.) 

PUBLIC  ENEMY,  THE— Warners.— A  gangster 
picture  that  is  lining  the  thrill-seekers  up  at  the  box- 
office.     (June) 

•  QUICK  MILLIONS  —  Fox.  —  Another  excel- 
lent gangster  picture  if  you  go  for  them.  Spen- 
cer Tracy  is  the  leader  of  the  racketeers,  and  you'll 
like  Sally  Eilers.     (June) 

REBOUND— RKO-Pathe.— Not  in  the  big  amuse- 
ment class  but  worth  seeing.  Ina  Claire  and  Robert 
Ames.    (Aug.) 

RECKLESS  HOUR,  THE— First  National— An 

old  story  with  a  few  new  twists.  Dorothy  Mackaill 
and  a  good  cast.     Just  fair.     (Aug.) 

RECKLESS  LIVING— Universal.— An  entertain- 
ing little  picture.     (Nov.) 

ROAD  TO  RENO,  THE— Paramount.— Divorce. 

murder,  suicide  and  an  important  cast  fail  to  make 
this  anything  but  a  picture  that  just  doesn't  jell.   (Nov.) 

ROAD  TO  SINGAPORE,  THE— Warners.— Bill 
Powell  and  Doris  Kenyon — splendid  in  a  tropical 
drama  of  tangled  loves  and  desires.     (Oct.) 

RULING  VOICE,  THE— First  National.— ( Re- 
viewed under  the  title  "Upper  Underworld".)  Differ- 
ent from  the  average  racketeering  picture  and  bound 
to  make  you  think.     (July) 

SAL  VATI  ON  NELL— Tiffany-Cruze.— Religion 
and  sentiment  are  pretty  obvious  in  this  out-of-date 
story,  but  Helen  Chandler  and  Ralph  Graves  make 
you  believe  every  word  of  it.     (Sept.) 

SEA  GHOST,  THE— Imperial  Prod.— Laura  La 
Plante  wasted  on  this  cheap,  ridiculous  story.  (Nov.) 

•  SECRET  CALL,  THE— Paramount.— Peggy 
Shannon,  who  pinch-hits  for  Clara  Bow  in 
this  one,  scores  a  solid  hit.  It's  a  political  story  with 
love  interest.    Dick  Arlen  excellent.       (Sept.) 

•  SECRET  SIX,  THE— M-G-M.— Still  another 
gang  story  but  with  more  humor.  Splendid 
cast,  includes  Wallace  Beery,  Lewis  Stone,  Clark 
Gable,  Johnny  Mack  Brown  and  Jean  Harlow.  (June) 

•  SECRETS  OF  A  SECRETARY— Paramount. 
— The  actors  make  this  worth  the  price. 
Claudette  Colbert  is  fine  and  that  Herbert  Marshall, 
from  the  stage,  is  one  of  those  men  you  don't  forget. 
(Sept.) 

•  SEED — Universal. — Interesting  and  realistic 
story  based  on  Charles  Norris'  novel.  John 
Boles  doesn't  sing  but  his  acting  is  superb.  Lois 
Wilson  and  Genevieve  Tobin  both  excellent.  Don't 
miss  it.     (June) 

SHANGHAIED  LOVE— Columbia.— Mutiny  and 
gory  evil-doings  at  sea.  Too  much  dialogue.  Not 
enough  action.     (Nov.) 

SHERLOCK   HOLMES'    FATAL   HOUR  — 

Warners-First  Division. — British-made  mystery  film, 
rather  long-drawn-out  but  not  lacking  in  interest. 
Sherlock  Holmes  and  Watson  solve  another  murder 
mystery.     (Sept.) 

SHIPMATES— M-G-M.— Plenty  of  pep  and  ac- 
tion, plus  the  United  States  Navy,  make  this  a  veri- 
table gale  of  laughter  from  beginning  to  end.  Robert 
Montgomery  heads  the  cast.     (June) 

SHIPS  OF  HATE — Trem  Carr—  Murder  and 
gruesomeness  on  shipboard.  Just  fair.  Don't  pass 
up  game  a  of  bridge  for  it.    (Aug.) 

SHOULD  A   DOCTOR  TELL?— Regal  Prod.— 
Dreary  talk  about  dreary  ethics.  Who  cares?  (Nov.) 
[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  1 10  ] 


Delicious  Spaghetti  Recipe 

Irene  Purcell  Gives  This  Tempting 
Dish  for  Sunday  Suppers 


SUNDAY  suppers  require  one  hot  dish  that  is  more  or  less 
elastic.  Irene  Purcell  finds  that  her  special  spaghetti 
recipe  provides  ample  and  delicious  fare  for  as  many 
guests  as  happen  to  drop  in. 
In  her  small  but  efficiently  equipped  kitchenette,  Irene 
demonstrated  just  how  she  goes  about  it.  The  recipe  is  one 
taught  her  by  an  Italian  chef,  and  it  has  all  the  subtlety  of 
flavoring  .that  has  made  Italy  the  spaghetti  capital  of  the  world. 
Here  it  is. 

Spaghetti  Purcell 


Boil  your  spaghetti  according 
to  taste;  some  like  it  underdone, 
others  well  cooked.  Then  to  a  can 
of  tomatoes  add  chopped  onions, 
celery  and  a  green  pepper;  cook 
these  well. 

Cut  slices  of  bacon  into  small 
pieces  and  fry,  then  add  curry 
powder.  Add  the  tomato  mixture 
to  the  bacon.  This  done,  place 
the  cooked  spaghetti  in  a  deep 
casserole  and  pour  the  bacon- 
tomato  mixture  over  it.  Garnish 
with  cheese  and  serve  very  hot. 
The  number  of  guests,  of  course, 
will  determine  how  much  to  add 
to  these  ingredients  to  make  more 
than  the  recipe  calls  for. 

IRENE  is  very  proud  of  the  fact 
that  it  was  Caruso,  the  famous 
tenor,  who  taught  her  how  to  eat 
spaghetti  in  true  Italian  style. 
She  was  guest  at  a  dinner  in 
Chicago  a  number  of  years  ago 
which  he  also  attended.  She  said 
he  managed  the  unwieldy  strings 
with  skill  by  holding  a  large  spoon 
in  the  left  hand  to  keep  the  spa- 
ghetti in  place,  while  the  fork  in 
the  right  hand  wound  it  into  a 
mound  around  the  prongs.  Try 
it  at  home  first! 

Spaghetti  isn't  the  only 
dish  that  Irene  can  prepare 
skilfully.  She  believes  that 
modern  living  with  its  hustle 
and  bustle  is  inclined  to  make 
everyone  a  trifle  anaemic  and 
for  that  reason  she  thinks 
liver  ought  to  be  included  in 
the  weekly  menu. 

The  liver  is  fried  in  butter. 
Then  the  juice  of  a  lemon  is 
squeezed  into  a  cup.  To  this 
is  added  a  teaspoon  of  sugar. 
When  the  liver  is  removed 
from  the  frying  pan,  this  mix- 
ture is  heated  in  it,  then 
poured  over  the  liver. 

"It  is  so  tasty  that  there 
isn't  a  word  in  the  English 
dictionary  that  quite  does  it 
justice,"  she  says. 

Irene  is  very  particular 


about  the  preparation  of  salad  dressing,  too.  She  has  her  own 
special  concoction.  It  has  a  variety  of  ingredients  that  give  it 
a  definite  zip. 

It  consists  of  the  following  mixture: 

A  little  lemon  juice,  salad  oil,  vinegar,  anchovy  paste,  mus- 
tard, curry  powder  and  garlic,  well  stirred  and  mixed  together. 
Sounds  hot — it  is! 

Adds  a  new  flavor  to  salads. 


HERE  is  a  recipe  for  cheese 
straws.  These  thin  straws 
are  perfect  to  serve  with  your 
spaghetti  dish  Sunday  evenings. 

Cheese  Straws 

1  cup  flour 

Y<l  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

}/l  teaspoon  salt 

Yolk  of  one  egg 

Dash  of  cayenne  pepper 

Mix  together  flour,  cheese,  salt, 
cayenne  and  the  egg  yolk,  then 
add  enough  water  to  make  paste 
of  sufficient  consistency  to  roll  to 
Y±  inch  thickness.  Place  it  on  a 
board  and  roll.  Cut  in  narrow 
strips  and  then  roll  each  piece  to 
the  size  and  length  of  a  lead  pencil. 
Place  in  baking  tin  and  press  each 
end  on  the  pan.  Bake  to  a  light 
brown  in  moderateoven.  Serve  hot. 


J 


A  famous  Italian  chef  taught  Irene  how  to 

cook  spaghetti — Caruso  showed  her  how  to 

eat  it!     That  hefty  hold  is  the  first  step  to 

take  in  its  scientific  preparation 


Photoplay  Magazine 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

Please  send  me  a  copy  of  Photoplay's  Famous 
Cook  Book,  containing  150  favorite  recipes  of  the 
stars.    I  am  enclosing  twenty-five  cents 


Be  sure  to  write  name  and  address  plainly. 
You  may  send  either  stamps  or  coin. 


OAN  CRAWFORD  FAIR- 
BANKS enjoys  being  hostess  in 
her  beautiful  home  but  she  rarely 
gives  large  dinner  parties. 

Even  though  these  dinners  are 
of  an  intimate  character,  Joan's 
dinner  table  always  looks  like  a 
banquet  board.  She  has  exquisite 
appointments.  And  she  gives 
every  small  detail  her  personal 
approval — from  planning  the 
dinner  herself  with  the  cook  in 
the  morning  to  the  crystal, 
silver  and  white  lace  for  the 
table. 

Douglas  hates  carving  so 
all  the  serving  is  done  from 
the  kitchen.  Perhaps  that  is 
one  reason  why  a  special  filet 
viignon  dish  is  so  popular  in 
the  Fairbanks  household. 
The  dish  is  prepared  thus: 

Small  filet  steaks  for  each 
guest  are  ringed  with  bacon 
and  skewered.  These  are 
broiled  and  then  placed  upon 
a  slice  of  pineapple  which 
has  been  browned  golden. 
Around  this  are  arranged 
little  pig  sausages,  kidney  and 
new  potatoes.  The  whole  is 
garnished  with  parsley. 


CAROLYN  VAN  WYCK. 
17 


i8 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


For  colds 

and  irritated 

throats 


Gargle  with  the  j^^lFE  antiseptic 


Make  sure  that  the  mouth  wash  you  use 
kills  germs.  But  make  doubly  sure  that 
it  does  not  irritate  tender  tissues  with 
which  it  comes  in  contact.  Mouth  washes 
so  harsh  as  to  require  dilution  may  irritate 
tissue  and  thereby  make  it  easier  for 
germs  to  gain  entrance  to  the  body.  Such 
irritation  also  slows  up  nature's  processes 
of  recovery. 


Safety  wins  acclaim 

There  can  be  no  question  of 
Listerine's  safety  and  its 
germicidal  power.  Both 
have  won  the  commenda- 
tion of  the  medical  profes- 
sion. Its  entire  reputation 
as  an  aid  in  preventing  and 
remedying  colds  and  asso- 
ciated sore  throats  is  based 
upon  these  two  properties. 
If  you  compare  the 

. .  deduces 


TASTES 
PLEASANT 


product  itself  and  its  results  with  ordi- 
nary mouth  washes  and  their  results,  its 
superiority  is  at  once  apparent. 

Aid  in  preventing  colds 

To  keep  the  mouth  healthy,  gargle  with 
Listerine  twice  a  day  at  least.  Used  thus 
it  is  a  precaution  against  colds,  other 
mouth  infections  and  bad  breath.  When 
you  feel  a  cold  coming  on  increase  the 
frequency  of  the  gargle  to  from  three  to 
five  times  a  day.  That  often  nips  the  cold 
at  the  outset  or  checks  its  severity. 
Millions  realize  this. 

Half  as  many  colds  for  garglers 

Controlled  laboratory  tests  contribute 
further  proof  of  Listerine's  ability  to  pre- 
vent infection. 

Of  1 02  persons  under  medical  super- 
vision for  a  period  of  sixty  days,  one- 
third,  called  "controls"  did  not  gargle 


Listerine;  one-third  gargled  twice  a  day; 
one-third  gargled  five  times  a  day.  Note 
these  amazing  results: 

Colds  less  severe 

The  group  that  gargled  twice  a  day  con- 
tracted only  half  as  many  colds  as  those 
who  did  not  gargle  at  all.  The  group  that 
gargled  five  times  a  day  contracted  one- 
third  as  many.  And  in  both  grouos  the 
colds  contracted  were  less  severe  and  of 
shorter  duration  than  in  the  group  that 
did  not  gargle. 

These  scientifically  controlled  tests,  per- 
formed on  average  people  under  aver- 
age conditions,  definitely  indicate  the 
high  value  of  Listerine  in  arresting  in- 
fection. 

Keep  Listerine  handy  in  home  and 
office.  Gargle  with  it  twice  a  day  at  least. 
It  keeps  not  only  your  mouth  but  your 
breath  clean.  Lambert  Pharmacal  Com- 
pany, St.  Louis,  Mo. 


Risk  of  Colds  50\  Tests  Show 


'  I  ^HERE'S  no  stopping  the  popular  progress  of  Ash-Blonde 
J-  Ann,  pride  of  the  House  of  Harding  and  joy  of  millions! 
Why,  in  her  new  "Devotion"  she  covered  that  spun-gold  hair  with 
a  wig— and  our  hearts  still  thumped  in  high  at  her  beauty  and 
brilliance.     That's  acting!    That's  "Devotion" 


Hal  Phyfe 


ANOTHER  of  Scandinavia's  prettiest  presents  to  the  Ameri' 
can  public — one  of  the  blondes  that  gentlemen  cry  for! 
A  luscious  eyeful  in  silent  days,  Greta  Nissen,  staging  a  great 
comeback,  is  now  an  earful,  too,  in  the  talkies.  Watch  for  La 
Belle  Nissen  in  "Ambassador  Bill" 


Max  Mimn  Autrey 


THE  whole  short  life  of  beautiful  Anita  Louise  seems  to  have 
been  one  long  posture  before  the  buzzing  cameras!  She  came 
to  the  studios  in  1921,  a  golden-curled  tot  of  five — now,  at  fifteen, 
she  is  a  grown-up  leading  lady  and  a  Wampas  Star  of  "31 !  Her 
latest  talkie  is  "Heaven  on  Earth" 


Otto  Dyar 


A  LITTLE  Georgia  cracker  who  exploded  with  a  loud  roar 
into  immediate  talkie  fame — sizzling,  sparkling  Miriam 
Hopkins,  with  tousled  yellow  curls  and  perfect  pout !  She  was  a 
smash  with  Chevalier  in  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant" — now,  as 
the  cabaret  lass  in  "24  Hours,"  she's  tremendous! 


'^yt  ISN'T  the  same  Diamond 

he  gave  to  Janet!'' 


TACK  and  Janet  had  been  engaged.  Then  Betty  came  back  to  town.  Jack  and  Janet 
•^  split  up.  And  Betty  wore  Jack's  ring.  You  know  what  the  gossips  said.  That  it  was 
the  same  diamond.  But  it  wasn't!  And  Jack  had  been  thoughtful  enough  to  give  Betty 
the  proof.  .  .  a  Virgin  Diamond,  backed  by  a  Certificate  of  Title  which  guaranteed  that 
never  before  had  it  been  individually  owned  or  worn. 

e^rs       <$jn>       tsjm       <sjn> 

There  can  be  no  doubt  or  question  about  a  Virgin  Diamond.  You  are  the  first  to  wear  it. 
It  is  untouched  by  previous  ownership,  unsullied  by  past  associations.  Naturally,  too, 
Virgin  Diamonds  are  perfect  for  only  the  finest  quality  would  satisfy  those  to  whom 
Virgin  Diamonds  appeal.  In  a  wide  range  of  standard  prices  from  $25  to  $25,000,  they 
may  be  secured  only  through  Authorized  Virgin  Diamond  Jewelers. 

Virgin  Diamonds  (Guaranteed  Perfect)  are  genuine  diamonds  of  certified 

origin.  For  your  protection  each  Virgin  Diamond  may  be  identified  by  the 

sealed  metal  tag,  and  the  words  "Virgin  Diamond"  ( Reg.  U.  S.  Pat.  Off. )  and 

j]   the  registered  number  which  are  stamped  in  the  mounting  and   which 

*■"    appear  on  the  Certificate  of  Title. 

Authorized  Virgin  Diamond  Jewelers  may  be  identified  by  this  trademark. 

IRGINIH  DIAMONDS 


FREE 


This  interesting  booklet  about  diamonds.    It  tells 
you  how  to  judge  diamonds,  what  factors  to  de- 
mand and  what  to  guard  against.  There  is  no  obli- 
gation— just  mail  the  coupon  now,  before  you  buy 
your  diamond. 


18  k.  White  Gold  Ensemble,  $75. 

•   Virgin  Diamond   Ring,  $62.50. 

Virginia  Wedding  Ring,  $12.50. 


18k. White  Gold  Er,semble,$  162.50. 
Virgin  Diamond  Ring,  $125.  Vir- 
ginia Wedding  Ring  with  5  dia- 
monds $37.50. 


Platinum  (10%  Iridium)  Ensemble, 
$265.  Virgin  Diamond  Ring,  $200. 
Virginia  Wedding  Ring  with  10 
diamonds,  $65. 


VIRGIN    DIAMOND    SYNDICATE 

(Offices  in  Holland.  Canada  and  many  Principal  American  Cities.) 
500  Fifth  Avenue  New  York  City 

Send  a  copy  of  your  free  booklet,  "Diamonds,  their  History  and  Romance,"  to 


TN/jime— 
Address- 


Jean  Harlow's  heart 
goes  pitter-patter  at 
the  golden  clear  voice 
of  this  dashing  cava- 
lier. "Cough  Drop 
Life  Savers,"  says 
this  brilliant  United 
Artists'  star,  "keep 
voices  clear  .  .  . 
golden...  and 
throats  soothed.  I 
am  told  it  is  due  to 
the  delicious  blend  of 
menthol,  horehound 
and  eucalyptus." 


Dorothy    Mackaill, 

First  National  star, 
in  a  gayly  modern 
interior,  has  forgot- 
ten all  the  old  fash- 
ioned cough  drops. 
The  modem  up-to- 
the-minute  Cough 
Drop  Life  Savers — - 
the  delicious  candy 
in  the  handy  roll 
package  .  .  .  will 
check  a  cough  in  a 
single  minute! 
"And,"  she  says, 
"Life  Savers  are  so 
cooling  to  the  throat 
...  so  refreshing  to 
the  mouth  I" 


Out  Hollywood  way  they  shoot  the  cough 
— not  the  cougher — and  here's  First 
National's  captivating  star,  Loretta 
Young,  Mistress  of  Ceremonies  just  after 
a  sunrise  shooting.  Cough  Drop  Life 
Savers  certainly  soothe  that  cough  away. 
She  says,  "They're  voice-savers  as  well 
as  Life  Savers  .  .  .  they  soothe  and 
clear  the  throat!" 


Dorothy  Jordan,  lovely  M.  G.  M.  star, 
gently  soothed  by  the  quick-acting  Cough 
Drop  Life  Savers — -the  amazing  cough 
drop  that  relieves  a  cough  in  one  minute 
by  the  clock.  "Hard  to  believe,  at  first," 
she  says,  "but  Cough  Drop  Life  Savers 
really  check  a  bad  coughing  spell  in  a 
minute  flat.     Try  'em  and  see!" 


DECEMBER,  1931 


Close-Ups  and  Long-Shots 


By 
James  R.  Quirk 


THIS  is  the  sort  of  thing  that  keeps 
the  army  of  half-starving  extras  in 
Hollywood.    It  gives  them  "the  hope 
that  springs  eternal." 

Paramount  executives  were  testing  a  new 
type  of  movie  film.  An  extra  named  Kent 
Taylor  was  on  the  lot,  waiting  to  go  to 
work.  He  was  asked  to  pose  while  several 
hundred  feet  of  the  new  film  were  run  off  as 
different  lighting  effects  were  concentrated  upon  him. 

Then  executives  looked  at  the  rushes  to  see  how  well 
the  new  film  worked,  photographically. 

But  when  they  saw  Taylor,  they  forgot  all  about  the 
film  and  got  excited  over  the  lad.  And  the  result  was 
that  he's  been  signed  to  a  contract,  and  given  his  first 
important  role  in  "Husband's  Holiday." 


IN  a  sociological  research,  which  is  being  conducted 
for  the  government,  a  group  of  college  professors  is 
studying  the  reactions  of  the  audience  of  many  mil- 
lions to  motion  pictures.  Included  in  its  activities  is 
the  reading  of  thousands  of  letters  that  come  to  my 
desk  from  readers  of  Photoplay. 

The  reading  of  those  letters,  which  come  from  every 
corner  of  the  globe,  is  not  a  task.  To  me,  they  furnish 
more  fascinating  reading  than  any  current  literature. 
And  they  are  vastly  more  human  and  significant  than 
ninety  per  cent  of  the  professional  writings  of  today. 

They  come  from  all  walks  of  life;  from  congressmen 
and  doctors,  school  teachers  and  club  women,  stenog- 
raphers and  housewives,  motion  picture  exhibitors  and 
actors. 

They,  with  the  voting  on  the  Photoplay  Gold 
Medal  for  the  best  picture  of  the  year,  are  a  scientific 
barometer  of  the  constantly  changing  likes  and  dis- 
likes of  millions  of  "fans,"  folks  whose  motion  picture 
habit  constitutes  the  greatest  asset  of  this  billion- 
dollar  business. 


THE  letters  that  interest  me  most  are 
those  that  tell  how  pictures  affect  their 
intimate  lives,  change  their  mental  and 
emotional  processes,  create  new  desires  and 
ambitions. 

Every  month  Photoplay  reprints  a 
score  or  more  of  them  and  they  are 
worth  reading. 

Here  are  a  few  that  have  come  to  my 
desk  in  the  past  few  days : 

"As  a  beauty  culturist  and  hairdresser,  I  have  noticed  that, 
our  movie  stars  are  to  a  very  great  extent  the  dictators  of 
current  hair  styles.  So  whenever  I  go  to  a  movie  or  receive 
my  copy  of  Photoplay,  I  particularly  notice  the  hairdress  of 
the  actresses,  because  I  know  that  countless  feminine  eyes 
are  watching  to  see  how  their  favorite  star  is  now  wearing  her 
hair." 

"I  carry  a  mental  image  in  my  mind  of  an  ideal  girl,  coined 
from  motion  pictures  and  from  your  articles  about  stars,  and 
I  try  to  live  up  to  that  ideal,  and  still  be  myself.  Once  a  shy, 
gauche  girl.  I  am  now  well-groomed  and  have  plenty  of  sub- 
jects to  talk  about.  I  read  in  Photoplay  that  Lilyan  Tash- 
man  has  the  same  creed  as  I  have — 'If  others  can  be  con- 
fident and  poised,  so  can  I.'  " 

"I  have  been  out  of  work  for  a  period  of  time  and  have 
very  little  money,  but  I  was  anxious  to  see  a  show,  so  I  took 
my  last  half-dollar  and  went  to  see  'Merely  Mary  Ann.' 
Janet  Gaynor  and  Charles  Farrell  are  wonderful  together. 
Their  love  in  pictures  seems  so  real  that  I  believe  it  is.'" 

"When  I  began  to  plan  the  building  of  my  home  I  could 
not  convey  to  architects  what  I  wanted.  I  attended  a  movie 
one  night  and  there,  staring  at  me,  begging  me,  was  my  home. 
I  knew  it  immediately.  I  have  succeeded  in  drawing  up  my 
plans,  and  a  home  that  is  more  charming,  more  cosy,  more 
perfect,  nobody  could  desire." 


AND  here  is  a  very  remarkable  one  which  came  in 
on  stationery  of  the  Ziegfeld  Theater,  the  head- 
quarters of  the  glorification  of  the  American  girl: 

25 


"You  would,  of  course,  know  that  every  girl  in  our  show 
would  like  to  have  the  charm  and  grace  that  Miss  Greta 
Garbo  has.  It  is  my  opinion  that  we  have  girls  with  much 
more  beauty.  But  there  is  nothing  as  beautiful  to  me  as  the 
thing  some  of  us  lack — personality.  It  is  the  wish  of  us  all  to 
see  Miss  Greta  Garbo  enact  'Devil's  Due,'  by  Phyllis 
Bottome.  We  would  be  so  grateful  if  you  would  let  Miss 
Garbo  know  that  we  are  rooting  for  her  and  are  waiting  im- 
patiently for  her  next  picture. 

Follies  Show  Girls,  Ziegfeld  Theater,  New  York 
City." 


hat  she  wore  in  the  period  picture  'Romance'  and  fit 
perfectly  into  the  modern  scene. 

"Women  saw  Garbo.  They  saw  how  lovely  she 
looked.  Women  have  copied  Garbo  before — as  witness 
the  long  bob.  Garbo  is  one  of  those  rare  women  with 
style  courage,  who  can  make  a  fad  popular.  She 
definitely  popularized  the  new  hat. 

"Paris  could  make  thousands  of  hats  of  this  type — but 
women  would  not  have  worn  them  had  they  not  seen  Greta 
(larbo  in  them." 


IT  was   a  super-super-super-special-feature   in   the 
shooting.     A  supervisor  walked  onto  the  set,  and 
glared.    He  beheld  some  small  potted  palms. 

"Stop!"  he  screamed.  "This  is  a  BIG  production. 
We've  got  to  have  BIG  palms." 

Shooting  was  held  up  for  two  hours  at  a  cost  of 
$2, 000. 00  while  property  men  replaced  the  little  palms 
with  BIG  ones.     Ho,  hum. 


IT  is  truly  one  of  the  most  astonishing  and  sensa- 
tional results  of  Hollywood.  That  a  tall,  slim  girl 
who  entertains  the  world  by  appearing  in  movies 
should  be  able  to  change  the  course  of  an  important 
business,  to  alleviate,  even  in  a  small  way,  a  nation- 
wide depression;  to  have  a  finger  in  big  financial 
matters  simply  by  wearing  a  hat,  is  a  thrilling  com- 
mentary on  the  influence  of  the  motion  picture. 


THE  milliners  of  the  world  take  off  their  hats  to 
Greta  Garbo — their  Empress  Eugenie  hats.  They 
are  grateful  to  her  for  making  the  Eugenie  hat  so  pop- 
ular that  it  sold  to  over  a  million  women  in  America. 
Hat  manufacturers  that  had  been  on  the  verge  of 
bankruptcy  were  deluged  with  orders  and  thousands 
of  unemployed  were  called  back  to  work  to  supply  the 
demand. 

Was  Paris  responsible  for  this  rage?  It  was  not. 
Greta,  sitting  silent  and  apart  in  California,  was 
responsible  for  it  all.  Listen  to  the  words  of  Ferle 
Heller,  one  of  the  most  famous  and  outstanding 
milliners  of  New  York: 


I 


WAS  in  Paris  when  Suzanne  Talbot  introduced 
what  you  call  the  Empress  Eugenie  hat.  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  the  Empress  Eugenie  is  a  trick  name 
thought  up  by  some  smart  advertiser.  What  it  really 
is,  is  the  return  to  the  feminine  in  styles,  a  reaction  to 
the  mannish  clothes  worn  during  and  since  the  war. 
Suzanne  Talbot  felt  that  the  romance  of  hats  should 
return.    So  she  included  that  type  in  her  collection. 

"Thrilled  by  them,  I  brought  back  a  number  of 
models.  But  my  customers,  who  are  among  the 
smartest  and  wealthiest  women  in  New  York,  would 
not  buy.  They  were  afraid.  They  did  not  see  them 
on  the  streets.  They  thought  they'd  make  themselves 
ridiculous,  even  when  I  explained  that  it  was  the  new 
movement  and  that  they  were  truly  straight  from 
Paris.    This  was  more  than  two  years  ago. 


"A 


ND,  then,  what  happened?  Greta  Garbo  made 
a  film  called  'Romance.'  It  was  a  period 
picture.  In  order  to  portray  her  character  she  wore 
the  clothes  of  the  time — romantic  clothes,  topped  by 
a  hat  pulled  over  one  eye  and  a  feather  at  the  back. 
At  the  time  that  picture  was  released  Garbo's  clothes 
were  'dated.'  They  looked  strange,  even  ridiculous. 
But  today  Garbo  could  walk  down  Broadway  in  the 


JAMES  MONTGOMERY  FLAGG  has  had  many 
invitations  to  become  an  inmate  of  Hollywood 
studios  but  he  won't  be  lured  from  his  New  York 
atelier.  Having  escaped  the  terrors  of  "No  Man's 
Land"  he  says  he  has  no  intention  of  chancing  the 
horrors  of  what  he  calls  "Yes  Man's  Land." 


"  JOHN  OTT,  Co-Worker  of  Edison,  Dies  When  Told 
J  of  Death  of  Great  Inventor." 

That  newspaper  headline  appeared  the  day  after 
Thomas  A.  Edison,  among  whose  other  great  inven- 
tions was  the  kinetoscope,  grandfather  of  the  motion 
picture  projection  machine  of  today,  passed  on. 

The  name  sounded  familiar.  I  turned  to  Terry 
Ramsay e's  history  of  the  motion  picture,  "A  Million 
and  One  Nights."  And  there  it  was,  in  that  work 
which  was  based  on  a  series  of  Mr.  Ramsaye's  his- 
torical articles  which  ran  in  serial  form  in  Photoplay 
for  three  years. 


JOHN  OTT  started  to  work  for  Edison  fifty  years 
ago  as  a  mechanic  in  his  experimental  laboratory. 
He  brought  along  his  brother,  Fred. 

Fred  was  the  life  of  the  laboratory  and  was  the  first 
actor  to  perform  before  a  motion  picture  camera.  A 
picture  of  him  taken  in  the  act  of  sneezing  was  the 
first  motion  picture  comedy  and  the  first  "close-up." 
Another  picture  of  him,  taken  sitting  at  a  desk  while  a 
mischievous  office  boy  slipped  up  behind  and  shook 
a  pepper  box,  causing  him  to  sneeze  again,  was  the 
embryo  of  scenario  construction,  the  first  screen  gag. 

That  was  in  1893. 


JIMMY  DURANTE'S  favorite  joke: 
J      A  gangster  approached  another  gangster:  "Sup- 
pose we  kidnap  the  daughter  of  a  millionaire  and  hold 
her  for  ransom." 

"No!    No!    I'll  kidnap  no  girls  for  Ransom.     Let 
him  get  his  own  girls." 


26 


Ou 


G 


u  e  s  t 


P 


age 


Every    month    Photoplay    will   have    a 

guest   writer.     We    didn't    pay    Eddie 

for    this    and   if  you   read    it   you'll 

know    just    why The  Editor 

By    Eddie    Cantor 


I  HAVE  been  asked  by  more  than  a  dozen  important  minds 
in  this  country,  including  the  Editor  of  Photoplay,  to 
say  something  about  the  Depression.  Oh,  you  must  have 
heard  of  it!  The  mere  mention  of  the  word  makes  a  lot  of 
business  men  see  "red."  Let's  get  away  from  this  depression 
business  for  a  minute. 

In  "Palmy  Days,"  you  will  find  for  the  first  time  that 
beautiful  girls  have  been  properly  photographed.  Dozens  of 
'em,  not  just  one  or  two.  The  critics  all  over  the  country  have 
raved  about  these  gals.  They  were  selected  with  the  same  care 
that  leading  ladies  are  picked. 
Just  because  "Palmy  Days" 
happens  to  be  a  musical 
comedy  picture  is  no  reason 
why  the  producer  should  send 
out  a  call  for  a  bushel  of 
pretty  girls.  No  sir!  They 
were  hand-picked  and  they 
look  it. 

Personally,  and  with  all 
due  modesty,  I  have  never 
been  funnier  in  my  life  than 
in  this  picture.  There  are 
two  dances  in  it,  and  I  ven- 
ture to  say  that  the  staging 
of  them  will  never  be  dupli- 
cated. True,  the  story  has  no 
great  weight,  but  if  you  find 
yourself  laughing  and 
applauding  for  an  hour  and  a 
half,  brothers  and  sisters,  you 
have  been  entertained. 
"Palmy  Days"  is  a  swell  pic- 
ture.   I  am  in  it. 


NOW  back  to  the  Depres- 
sion. If  you  heard  my 
Sunday  night  broadcast  on 
the  Chase  &  Sanborn  hour, 
you  probably  have  wondered 
why  I've  been  doing  it.  When 
Jimmy  Wallington  said  to  me 
last  Sunday,  "Eddie,  you 
ought  not  to  talk  about  the 
depression  so  much — maybe 
there's  no  depression,"  and  I 
answered,  "Well,  if  there  ain't 
no  depression,  Jimmy,  this  is 
the  smallest  boom  we  have 
had  in  years,"  I  just  knew 
people  all  over  the  country 
enjoyed  it. 

After  each  broadcast,  for  a 
full  week,  they  wrap  me  in 
cellophane  to  retain  my  fresh- 


Eddie  Cantor  is  known  in  private  life  as  the 
logical  successor  to  Rudolph  Valentino.  That's 
because  of  his  Latin  impetuosity.  Here  he  is 
in  one  of  his  most  passionate  moments  in  "Palmy 
Days."  A  true  lover's  gesture.  The  clinging 
vine  is   Charlotte  Greenwood 


ness.  For  instance,  in  the  book  "Yoo  Hoo  Prosperity,"  which 
is  sold  at  most  book  stores  and  railroad  stations  at  SI. 00 
per  copy,  I've  explained  the  why's  and  wherefore's  of  the 
depression  and  the  Five  Year  Plan  for  bringing  back  prosperity. 
If  you  haven't  read  the  book  I  think  you're  a  sucker.  If  you 
have  read  it,  I  know  you  are. 

At  any  rate,  in  the  Five  Year  Plan,  I  speak  of  doing  away 
with  unemployment.  How?  Listen.  You've  never  heard  of  my 
doubling  up  system.  In  baseball,  why  should  there  be  only  nine 
men  on  each  side?  Why  not  eighteen  men  per  team?  Instead  of 

three  umpires,  let's  have  six. 
Instead  of  having  two  fighters 
in  a  ring,  why  not  have  four  on 
each  side?  Then  maybe  there 
would  be  a  fight.  Instead  of 
one  referee,  let's  have  three. 
Take  the  races,  for  instance. 
Why  should  there  be  only  one 
little  jockey  on  a  horse?  For 
the  smallest  horse  could  take 
care  of  at  least  two  jockies. 
This  is  just  a  rough  idea.  I 
can  go  on  with  this  in- 
definitely. But  is  Photo- 
play paying  me?  Don't  be 
silly. 

Now  regarding  this  topic  of 
Depression.  Before  I  left  for 
New  York,  I  signed  a  nice 
contract  with  Samuel  Gold- 
wyn  to  make  one  picture  a 
year  for  the  next  five  years. 
Why  one?  Well,  wc  figured  it 
would  be  better  to  make  one 
good  one  than  three  not  so 
good.    Good? 

T  OPENED  at  the  Palace 
J-  Theater  in  New  York  City 
on  October  31  for  a  run.  If 
you  happen  to  be  in  New  York, 
drop  in  and  see  me.  Also, 
speaking  of  Depression,  I've 
a  piece  of  property  at  Great 
Xeck,  Long  Island,  that  I 
would  like  to  sell  at  a  bar- 
gain.   Write  me  about  it. 

So  you  see,  the  way  to 
write  about  any  subject  is  to 
tear  it  apart  and  make  it  clear 
to  your  readers.  If  you  think 
what  I've  written  is  sound, 
one  of  us  is  crazy. 

I  wonder  how  much  I'll  get 
paid  for  this. 

27 


L 


atest 


Deaut 


y 


F 


ads 


of 
Molly  wood 


Ut 


ars 


New  and  priceless 
aids  for  PHOTOPLAY 
girls  from  the  beauty 
center  of  the  world 

By    Lois    Shirley 

28 


~  : % 


Found !  A  new  use  for  those  superfluous  finger  bowls. 
Credit  Anita  Page  with  the  discovery.  Because  even- 
ing gowns  as  well  as  many  fall  afternoon  frocks  are 
short-sleeved,  Anita  keeps  her  elbows  lovely  by  giving 
them  a  weekly  ten-minute  witch  hazel  bath 


Age  signs  go — look  ten  years  younger  overnight! 
Amazing  beauty  secret  lost  for  years  now  found! 
Woman  of  60  drove  young  men  wild — her  secret  of  beauty 
discovered! 

Complete  rejuvenation  of  your  skin  instantly! 

YOU'VE  seen  them  around — those  wild-eyed  newspaper  ads 
that  guarantee  a  miraculous  transformation  before  you 
can  say  Sessue  Hayakawa.  But  don't  let  them  kid  you. 
You'll  never  see  them  in  Photoplay. 

There  isn't  any  magic  beauty  recipe.  Eternal  vigilance 
is  the  price  of  beauty.  Hollywood  stars — those  women 
whose  lovely  skin,  hair,  eyes  and  hands  are  their  stock  in  trade 
— know  this.  Each  new  crop  of  stars  brings  new  beauty  culture 
to  Hollywood.  And  Photoplay  knows  that  you  want  to  be 
kept  informed  about  every  latest  trick.  For  the  stars  can  give 
more  time  to  the  discovery  of  tricks  than  you  can.  And 
they're  generous  enough  to  let  Photoplay  in  on  their  secrets. 

This  is  a  beauty  article,  but  I  promise  to  keep  specific.  No 
vague,  intangible,  impractical  advice  will  you  find  here.  I 
raise  my  right  hand  and  solemnly  swear  that  you'll  have 
direct  information  about  what  your  favorites  do  to  get  that 
way.  And,  surprisingly  enough,  it  is  all  as  simple  as  the 
Cinderella  plot. 

Did  you  know  you  can  improve  the  appearance  of  your 
hands  with  a  handkerchief  or  a  ribbon  and  a  few  minutes'  time? 


That  pipe  cleaners  do  more  than  clean  pipes?  They'll  im- 
prove your  general  make-up. 

That  a  thimble  has  another  use  than  as  a  sewing  implement? 
It  keeps  your  fingers  beautiful. 

Oh,  I'm  simply  bursting  with  perfectly  grand  new  tricks. 
It's  not  just  one  thing,  mind  you,  but  a  combination  of  them 
all  that  makes  you  lovely. 

Draw  up  a  chair.    Here's  stuff  hot  from  Hollywood. 

Hands  and  Arms 

ADRIENNE  AMES  is  a  newcomer  to  Hollywood.  The 
wife  of  a  New  York  stock  broker,  she  moved  from  a  Park 
Avenue  pent-house  to  a  Paramount  dressing-room.  She  has 
the  loveliest  hands  I've  ever  seen.  They  are  always  white, 
with  no  ugly  red  blotches  or  veins  which  stand  out.     Here's 


her  method.  Daily,  of  course,  she  uses  a  good  lotion  and  a 
whitener.  But  when,  after  a  day's  athletics,  she  notices  red- 
ness, this  is  her  method. 

She  ties  a  handkerchief  or  scarf  above  the  forearms — not 
tight  enough  to  stop  circulation  but  merely  to  retard  it — 
places  her  elbows  on  a  table  and  holds  the  position  for  ten 
minutes.  The  blood  drains  from  the  forearms,  leaving  the 
hands  white.  Adrienne  always  does  this  before  she  goes  out  in 
the  evening.  Easy,  simple,  neat — yes?  But  the  constant  use 
of  lotions  and  whiteners  must  be  kept  up  as  a  daily  practice. 

Here's  a  trick  from  Peggy  Shannon,  and  if  you've  ever 
noticed  her  dimpled  elbows  you'll  say  it's  a  good  stunt.  She 
puts  her  elbows  in  cups  of  cold  water  twice  daily,  holding 
forearms  upward,  for  ten  minutes.  And  Anita  Page  does  the 
same  thing  with  witch  hazel.  But  she  does  it  weekly.  Re- 
member— the  cold  water  daily,  witch  hazel  weekly. 


29 


Beauty  Stunts  All  Girls  Can  Copy 


To  keep  hands  white,  tie  a  scarf  or  ribbon  around  the  fore- 
arm fairly  tightly  and  allow  the  blood  to  drain  from  the 
hands.    That's  Adrienne  Ames'  secret.    She  also,  of  course, 
uses  lotions 


It  seems  to  me  that  you  could  kill  a  couple  of  birds  with  one 
stone  by  combining  the  handkerchief  trick  and  the  water  and 
witch  hazel  business.  And  you  can  read  Photoplay  while 
you're  doing  it! 

When  Karen  Morley  walked  into  a  shop  and  bought  ten 
thimbles  the  salesgirl  thought  she  had  lost  her  contract  and  was 
setting  up  a  dressmaking  establishment.  She  wasn't.  She 
was  chasing  that  elusive  nymph,  beauty.  She  wears  thimbles 
on  her  fingers  as  often  during  the  day  as  she  can,  to  make  her 
fingers  taper.    Frances  Dee  uses  hot  oil  on  her  nails  frequently. 

You  may  not  have  noticed  them  when  you  saw  her  as  the 
old  derelict  in  "Min  and  Bill"  and  "Anna  Christie,"  but  in 
Hollywood,  where  Marie  Dressier  is  the  most  popular  woman 
in  town  and  had  to  go  to  New  York  to  get  a  rest  (yes,  honestly, 
she's  invited  out  so  much  and  she's  so  loath  to  say  "no"  to 
invitations  that  she's  given  no  peace),  her  neck  and  shoulders 
are  famous  for  their  beauty.  She  looks  stunning  in  evening 
gowns. 

This  is  the  trick.  She  sleeps  without  a  pillow  and  turns  her 
head  from  side  to  side  hundreds  of  times  during  the  day. 

Loretta  Young  admits  that  she  learned  the  trick  of  beautify- 

30 


Dorothy  Jordan  has  not  returned  to  child- 
hood days.  She  wears  a  baby  cap  at 
night  to  keep  her  hair  wave  in  place  and 
make  her  ears  lie  flat  to  her  head.  Easy 
and  it  does  the  trick 


f  ing  her  hands  from  Perc  Westmore,  make-up  artist 

,  extraordinary  of  Hollywood.      He  taught  her  to 

make  them  up  in  the  evening — giving  them  com- 
position rather  than  blank  whiteness — by  the  use 
of  a  few  deft  touches  of  rouge  upon  the  finger, 
wrist  and  elbow  knuckles.  Not  enough  to  look 
rouged,  but  merely  as  shadows  and  accents — to 
give  life  and  warmth  to  the  hands. 

Preparing  For  Sleep  At  Night 

YOU  don't  need  me  to  tell  you  that  you  shouldn't 
go  to  bed  at  night  with  your  make-up  on,  but 
just  a  dash  of  cold  cream  hastily  rubbed  off  with  a 
towel  won't  do  the  job.  I'm  going  to  tell  you 
exactly  how  Joan  Crawford  prepares  for  bed  and  manages — ■ 
miracle  of  miracles! — to  look  attractive  when  the  job  is  all  done. 
Some  of  the  most  beautiful  girls  look  like  orphaned  slaveys 
when  they're  ready  for  bed.    But  not  Joan. 

She  takes  off  the  make-up  with  some  good  cream  or  remover, 
using  a  soft  tissue.  But  she  doesn't  stop  there.  She  uses  an 
astringent  after  that — to  get  all  the  cream  out  of  the  pores — 
and  follows  with  a  good  washing  with  soap  and  warm  water, 
and  cold  water  plentifully  dashed  on  to  remove  the  soap 
entirely.  This  leaves  her  face  pink  and  glowing  and  not 
greasy  from  the  cream  (face  builders  she  uses  during  the  day). 

When  she's  working  on  a  picture  her  hair  is  finger-waved 
every  night,  but  even  it  if  isn't,  she  wears  a  marcel  cap  to 
preserve  her  wave.  This  is  drawn  tightly  over  her  head. 
(Incidentally,  Dorothy  Jordan  wears  a  regular  baby  cap  not 
only  for  her  hair  but  to  keep  her  ears  tight  to  her  head.)  A 
marcel  cap  is  not  a  ravishingly  beautiful  head-gear,  so  Joan 
wraps  a  soft,  colorful  scarf  about  her  head  over  the  cap  and 
knots  it  just  above  her  forehead  so  that  it  won't  be  uncom- 
fortable.   This  also  holds  the  hair  more  tightly  in  place. 

She  wears  pajamas  in  winter,  gowns  in  summer,  and  uses 


From  The  World's  Loveliest  Women 


ilk 

i 


V 


First  thing  in  the  morning,  last  thing  at 
night  and  often  during  the  day,  Judith 
Wood  puts  pads  of  cotton  soaked  with 
eye  lotion  over  her  eyes.  It  keeps  them 
fresh  and  sparkling 


a  fresh  one  every  night.  Her  face  radiant  from  the 
cold  water,  her  head  wrapped  in  the  bright  scarf 
— she  is  almost  lovelier  when  she's  ready  for  bed 
than  when  she's  fully  dressed  and  made  up. 

Hair 

THE  standard  for  beautiful  hair  today  is  lustre. 
The  fluffy-haired  doll  of  a  few  years  ago  is  as 
passe  as  the  pug  dog.  Hair  must  be  sleek  and  lie 
flat  to  the  head.  Sylvia  Sidney  uses  ten  drops  of 
rose  of  geranium  oil  to  one  glass  of  water  with 
each  shampoo. 

Incidentally,  if  your  hair  is  dyed  it  should  be 
soaked  with  oil  before  and  after  each  bleaching. 

With  hair  combed  back  off  the  forehead  the  hair  line  is 
important,  and  many  of  us  are  troubled  with  those  small,  new 
hairs.  Fifty  strokes  each  night  and  morning  does  the  trick  for 
Evelyn  Brent.  She  brushes  those  small  hairs  up  and  back, 
vigorously.     They're  trained  to  grow  that  way. 

Arlene  Carlyle,  who  plays  with  Chic  Sale  in  comedies,  warns 
stout  women  to  avoid  having  their  hair  waved  round.  It 
should  be  done  on  the  bias.  This  adds  height  and  makes  the 
matron  look  less  plump. 

Eyes 

YOU  know  all  that  stuff  about  eyes  being  "the  windows  of 
the  soul."  The  soul  can  take  care  of  itself  nicely,  thank 
you,  but  eyes  are  the  most  important  feature  and  your  entire 
make-up  should  be  built  around  them.  You  must  start  first 
thing  in  the  morning,  as  Judith  Wood  does.  Before  she  gets 
out  of  bed  she  places  a  piece  of  cotton  soaked  in  some  good 
eye-lotion  over  each  eye  and  allows  it  to  remain  there  for  ten 
minutes.  She  places  the  wash  and  the  cotton  on  her  bed  table 
before  retiring.     That  starts  the  day  with  a  sparkle.     From 


* 


Going  to  do  a  lot  of  sewing,  lady?    No  sir,  Karen  Morley  has 

discovered  that  thimbles  worn  over  each  finger  makes  her 

fingertips  beautiful  and  tapering.     She  uses  them  every 

spare  minute  of  the  day 


then  on  it's  a  matter  of  keeping  up  that  sparkle.  Judith  re- 
peats the  eye  pad  business  as  often  during  the  day  as  she  can. 

The  Westmores  (brothers  Ernie  and  Perc)  recommend  the 
use  of  white  vaseline  on  the  lids  to  catch  the  light,  followed 
by  eye  shadow  to  be  made  as  inconspicuous  as  possible  in 
color  to  blend  with  face  and  hair.  Mary  Astor,  whose  hair 
is  copper-colored  and  whose  skin  is  tannish,  uses  copper- 
colored   eye   shadow. 

Now  what  about  eyelashes?  Theie  are  comparatively  few 
stars  in  Hollywood  who  do  not  use  false  eyelashes  on  the  screen 
and  some  do  so  on  the  street.  I'll  tell  you  how  Lorctta  Young 
does  it. 

You  can  buy  false  eyelashes.  Mix  the  glue  that  comes  with 
them  with  a  good  mascara.  Dip  each  individual  lash  in  the 
mixture  of  glue  and  mascara,  holding  it  with  a  tweezer.  Apply 
over  the  real  eyelash.  Repeat  until  every  real  lash  is  covered 
by  a  false  one.  The  glue  makes  it  stick,  the  mascara  kills  the 
color  of  the  glue.  These  lashes  will  remain  for  a  good  many 
days.  It  takes  practice,  time  and  patience  to  do  it  but  it  pro- 
duces a  stunning  effect. 

Gloria  Swanson  believes  that      [  please  turn  to  page  120  ] 

31 


IVly  Uncle  Jligbert 


^#0 


The  posse  of  alleged 
movie  queens  had 
drunk  seven  terrific 
toasts  to  the  King  of 
Bongoland,  and  the 
orgy  was  on!  At  that 
point  Uncle  Egbert  be- 
gan juggling  glasses 
adroitly  with  his 
littlepink  tootsies 


SOME  day  I  hope  to  meet  Theda  Bara  face  to  face  and 
enthusiastically  thank  her  for  rescuing  my  inheritance 
from  the  ash-can. 

You've  never  seen  Theda  Bara  on  the  screen?  Too-o-o 
bad!  Serves  you  right  for  being  young.  Yea,  brother!  Them 
was  the  good  old  days! 

When  that  baby  got  through  vamping  'em  they  never  were 
the  same. 

My  outburst  of  gratitude,  I  might  add,  will  come  as  a  great 
surprise  to  Miss  Bara,  who  has  never  heard  of  me,  my  legacy, 
my  Uncle  Egbert  or  my  new  Rolls-Royce.  (It  isn't  really  a 
Rolls-Royce — I  just  call  it  that  for  fun.) 

My  Uncle  Egbert  was  just  another  misguided  pilgrim  who 
came  to  Hollywood  to  gawk  at  the  movie  stars.  In  fact,  he  was 
a  bigger  than  average  sap  because  he  came  from  so  much  farther 
away. 

I  present  the  record  of  his  downfall  honestly,  frankly,  in  all 
its  distressing  details,  hoping  it  may  serve  as  a  warning  to  all 
unfortunate  mortals  plagued  with  a  desire  to  gaze  enraptured — 
and  at  close  range — on  the  fascinating,  fragile  and  frequently 
fretful  females  of  the  films. 

Uncle  Egbert  itched  something  awful  to  get  close  to  a  real, 
live  movie  queen.  Yep,  Uncle  Egbert  was  all  primed  to  "See 
Hollywood  and  Die."  He  got  the  first  part  of  his  wish  but  the 
jury  barely  failed  to  convict  him  on  the  second  count. 

I  just  snipped  him  home  to  Bongoland,  a  flea-bitten  African 
empire  where  the  native  ladies  cavort  in  broad  Ethiopian  smiles 
and  headgear  much  funnier  than  Empress  Eugenie  hats. 
What's  more,  I  shipped  him  home  happy,  though  slightly 
frayed. 

And  the  lies  he'll  tell  the  home  folks  about  the  Hollywood 
cinema  cuties  will  make  a  comparatively  honest  man  out  of 
Aloysius  Horn. 

In  one  respect  I  am  glad  Uncle  Egbert  came.    Between  us  we 

32 


By  Bogart  Rogers 


solved  that  perplexing  problem  of  what  to  do  with  the  friends, 
relatives  and  total  strangers  who  infest  the  village  from  afar  to 
oogle  the  picture  folk — just  as  they  do  the  animals  in  the  Bronx 
Zoo.  Will  they  never  learn  it's  much  easier  to  see  the  animals 
than  the  stars — and  a  lot  more  fun? 

Uncle  Egbert's  case  was  simply  this: 

He  wired  from  the  train:  "Arriving  tonight.  Meet  me."  I 
did,  and  exclaimed,  "Uncle  Egbert!  Fancy  seeing  you  here!" 
Fourteen  years  with  the  Bongos  hadn't  changed  him  at  all.  As 
I  am  his  only  nephew  and  sole  heir,  I  was  delighted  to  see  him. 
You've  got  to  be  delighted  to  see  people  who  make  you  their  sole 
heir.    We  exchanged  tokens  of  affection. 

Uncle  Egbert  said:  "I  have  come  eleven  thousand  miles 
through  jungles  teeming  with  venomous  reptiles  and  over  shark- 
infested  seas  to  meet  all  the  movie  girls." 

I  should  have  known  there  was  a  catch  to  it  somewhere. 

"That's  not  so  easy,  Nunky,"  quoth  I,  "but  we'll  do  the  best 
we  can." 

"I  come,"  said  Uncle  Egbert  impressively,  "as  an  emissary 
of  the  king." 

"What  king?" 

"The  King  of  Bongoland.    We're  great  pals." 

Right  here  is  a  good  place  to  remark  that  Uncle  Egbert  is  a 


eets 


the  D 


tars 


Promptly  at  11:42, 
warmed  by  frequent 
nips  at  the  jug,  Uncle 
Egbert  went  into  his 
dance  —  a  hot  collec- 
tion of  native  African 
steps  and  whoops, 
while  Imogene  lustily 
thumped  a  boiler  with 
a  potato -smasher 


7H  v 


LLUSTRATED    BY     VAN     ARSDALE 


big  potato  in  Bongoland.  He  runs  ivory,  smuggles  diamonds, 
traffics  in  an  occasional  contraband  pearl  and  peddles  grog  to 
the  natives  as  a  sideline — just  a  typical  tropical  business  tycoon. 

I  explained  that  seeing  all  the  movie  girls  might  be  hard  to 
do.  The  famous  femmcs  of  the  films  recoil  convulsively  from 
the  polluting  public  gaze.  Maybe  we'd  be  able  to  peek  at  two 
or  three.  Uncle  Egbert  registered  surprise.  "These  folks  are 
all  your  neighbors,  ain't  they?  And  ain't  I  a  soecial  emissary 
of  the  king?" 

To  make  the  problem  more  complex  he  announced  he  could 
remain  in  our  midst  only  four  days. 

That  was  Monday. 

Tuesday  morning  I  phoned  Harry  Chinn,  a  big  director  in  the 
Excelsior  Studios  and  a  bosom  pal  of  mine.  Harry  would  be 
able  to  arrange  everything.  I  said  I  wanted  to  take  Uncle 
Egbert  through  his  studio  and  have  him  shake  hands  with  the 
beautiful  fillies.  I  added  that  Uncle  Egbert  was  an  emissary  of 
the  king. 

Harry  said,  "You're  talking  to  the  wrong  guy.  I  can't  even 
get  into  the  joint  myself." 

I  inquired  why. 

"  It's  like  this,"  Harry  explained.  "  Not  even  employees  can 
get  into  studios  now  without  an  official  pass.  1  lost  my  pass." 


"Why  don't  you  get  another  one,  you  sap?"  I  inquired. 

"  Because  Hermann  Schmaltz,  the  only  man  in  the  world  who 
can  issue  one,  is  in  Bombay." 

"What  about  the  picture  you're  shooting?" 

"  Production  suspended  until  Mr.  Schmaltz  returns  and  issues 
me  a  new  pass.  Sorry  I  can't  help  you,  old  boy,  but  you  see 
where  /  stand." 

I  said  it  all  sounded  rather  foolish  and  ineffably  sad.  Harry 
said  it  was  a  lot  of  dirty  names. 

I  free-wheeled  Uncle  Egbert  over  to  another  film  foundry.  A 
magnificently  important  youth  stood  guard  at  the  front  door. 
(Magnificently  important  youths  stand  guard  at  all  Hollywood 
studio  front  doors.)  I  begged  admittance,  both  because  I  had 
friends  within  and  because,  as  I  carefully  explained,  Uncle 
Egbert  was  an  emissary  of  the  king.  The  magnificently  im- 
portant young  man  seemed  pretty  sore  about  that.  "Kings 
don't  mean  nothin'  here,"  he  said.  "  You  gotta  have  a  personal 
note  from  Will  Hays." 

"Would  a  note  from  Herbert  Hoover  do  instead?" 

This  was  supposed  to  be  a  sarcastic  gem.  It  missed  fire. 
"  Nope — Hoover  don't  rate  either.  Only  notes  from  Will  1  rays 
is  good." 

We  launched  spirited  attacks  and  determined  onslaughts  the 
rest  of  the  day  but  were  driven  back  by  withering  fire  from 
every  studio  front  door. 

Uncle  Egbert  was  very  nice  about  it  all.  He  merely  said, 
"That's  a  hell  of  a  way  to  treat  an  emissary  of  the  king.  Just 
you  wait  'til  some  of  these  blankety-blank  blankety-blank 
movie  people  come  to  Bongoland." 

Wednesday  morning  I  convinced  [  please  turn  to  page  102  ] 

33 


v><  a  1 


YX  THEN  Jean  Harlow  was  in  New  York,  Earl 
*^  Christy,  Photoplay's  cover  artist,  called 
upon  her  to  draw  her  portrait.  He  was  par- 
ticularly interested  in  the  color  of  her  "plati- 
num blonde"  hair,  and  has  carefully  reproduced 
it  for  you  in  all  its  light  and  shade  on  the  cover 
of  this  issue.  As  told  in  last  month's  issue, 
"platinum"  is  the  most  extreme  shade  of 
blonde,  almost  white,  and  the  bluish  tint  is 
secured  by  a  light  bluing  rinse. 

/^ARBO'S  house  will  be  thrown  open  to 
^-'visitors  and  everybody  will  have  a  grand 
time !  Oh  no,  Garbo  won't  be  there.  And  she 
won't  know  about  the  party.  Here's  how  it 
happens. 

Garbo  never  owned  that  house  you've  read 
so  much  about.  She  did  not  even  lease  it.  She 
simply  stayed  on  month-by-month  paying,  if 
you  like  exact  figures,  $600  a  month.     Now 


she's  given  it  up  and  it's  rented  to  a  writer  who 
has  announced  he  is  going  to  give  a  party  so 
that  all  the  curious  may  see  Garbo's  erstwhile 
domk'le. 

/'""'ARBO,  herself,  is  "somewhere  in  Santa 
^-'Monica."  Nobody  knows  the  address — 
not  even  studio  execs.  More  mystery  stuff. 
And  there  are  wagers  now  that  she'll  return  to 
Sweden  when  her  contract  is  up  in  April. 
Return  for  good,  I  mean.  "Mata  Hari,"  her 
picture  with  the  three  leading  men,  Ramon 
Novarro,  Lewis  Stone  and  Lionel  Barrymore 
(what  a  cast!),  is  being  rushed. 

A  WOMAN  who  knows  Garbo  very  well  said 
■*■  *•  recently,  "I  think  she  will  go  back  home 
and  live  on  her  huge  fortune  which  is  in  cash 
and  American  government  bonds.  I  think  her 
peasant  nature  will  predominate  and  she  will 


/^v 


International 


Another  real  romance  blooms  out  in 
the  reel  world.  Wesley  Ruggles,  of 
"Cimarron"  fame,  became  engaged 
to  Arlene  Judge  while  directing  her  in 
"Are  These  Our  Children?"  Now 
wedding  bells  have  rung.  She's  nine- 
teen. Wesley's  age?  Well,  he's  old 
enough  to  pick  'em  pretty 


retire  from  the  glory  and  excitement  which  th 
flame  of  her  genius  has  brought  her." 

Fancy  words,  those !  But  peasant  or  geniui 
Garbo's  a  business  woman  and  it's  our  gues 
that  she  won't  leave  Hollywood  if  M-G-ft 
comes  through  nobly  with  plenty  of  salary 

COME,  come,  Lupe!    Act  your  age,  Jack 
Don't  you  think  all  that  carrying  on  is  jus 
a  little  silly? 

Loop-the-Lupe  Velez  and  Jack  Gilbert  ar 
the  latest  railroad  romancers.  Spurred  on,  n 
doubt,  by  the  publicity  that  Connie  and  th 
Marquis  and  then  Gloria  and  Michael  Farme 
got  when  they  crossed  continents  togethei 
Lupe  and  Jack  stepped  off  the  train  in  Nei 
York  side  by  side.    Posing  together  for  new 

loi 


A  New  York  arrival  that  had  the  whole  country 
twittering  in  a  few  hours !  John  Gilbert  and  Lupe 
Velez  as  they  stepped  off.  the  Hollywood  rattler. 
That  night  Lupe  bade  Jack  goodbye  on  his  Euro- 
pean bound  liner — but  no,  she  did  not  stay  on 
board!  She  went  over  later 


Sh 


Ihe  Monthly  .Broadcast 

of 

Hollywood 
Goin£s-On/ 


World  Wide 

Whoops  and  what-ho!  Look  what 
happens  to  a  little  actress  when  she 
thinks  about  dear  old  Lunnon !  Lilian 
Bond  comes  back  to  Hollywood  and 
the  talkies  from  a  stage  tour  with  a 
bally  old  monocle  and  a  silly  old 
woofle-hound.  Does  the  accent 
match   the   props,   Lilian? 


lotographers  they  pulled  all  the  old  lines. 

ou've  heard  them  many,  many  times  before. 

"We're  just  good  friends." 

"I  admire  her  greatly." 

"I  admire  him  greatly." 

''I'm  not  yet  legally  free  from  Ina  Claire,  so 

>w  can  I  discuss  another  marriage?" 

"I  won't  say  we're  engaged  but — maybe — ■ 

ter,  I'll  have  something  to  tell." 

"He  has  such  a  sense  of  humor." 

"She  has  such  a  sense  of  humor." 

"We're  just  good  friends." 

'O  Jack  hopped  off  to  Europe  alone.  By  the 
time  you  read  this  Lupe  will  be  in  Europe, 
o.  That  continent  is  pretty  big  and  there  are 
lot  of  fine  cities  there.    They'll  probably  both 


No,  Jane  and  Junior — Joan  Blondell's  blonde 
pate  isn't  sprouting  an  electric  light  plant,  as  you 
suspect!  But  our  camera  shark  caught  her  get- 
ting a  permanent  wave  during  the  filming  of 
"The  Greeks  Had  a  Word  for  It."  She  actually 
suffers  for  her  art! 


say,  "We're  just  good  friends"  in  every 
European  capital. 

JOAN  BENNETT'S  back!  And  that  means 
•*  three  cheers  and  a  day  off  to  Hollywood.  For 
everybody  admired  the  pluck  she  showed 
during  her  recent  hospital  assignment  as  a 
result  of  a  fall  from  a  horse. 

She  got  the  most  attention  of  all  when  she 
appeared  at  the  opening  of  "  Consolation  Mar- 
riage" at  the  Carthay  Circle  Theater.  She  was 
dressed  in  blue  satin  and  one  hand  rested  on  a 
cane,  while  the  other  was  in  the  crook  of  Hugh 
Trevor's  arm.  Yes  sir,  it's  the  same  Hugh  who 
used  to  be  Betty  Compson's  beau. 

OISTER  CONNIE  and  the  Marquis  were,  of 
^course,  along  but  none  of  them  would  talk 
over  the  microphone.  "Hank"  hesitated  be- 
fore the  instrument  for  a  moment  but  Connie 


motioned  to  him  to  come  on  and  whatever 
words  of  wisdom  he  was  prepared  to  utter  were 
left  unsaid. 

Although  this  was  Joan's  first  formal  appear- 
ance, it  was  not  her  first  venture  out.  Every 
day  during  the  championship  tennis  tourney  in 
Los  Angeles  she  went  to  the  matches  in  an 
ambulance,  specially  fitted  so  she  could  be 
propped  up  in  it,  and  watch  the  play. 

Each  day,  she  took  a  doll  with  her.  And 
each  day,  the  doll  was  dressed  in  an  exact 
miniature  replica  of  the  costume  Joan  herself 
was  wearing  that  day. 

'"INHERE  is  a  bracelet  of  platinum 
■*■  which  is  always  to  be  seen  on 
Connie  Bennett's  wrist. 

The  Marquis  Henri  de  la  Falaise 
gave  it  to  her.  On  his  own  wrist, 
the  Marquis  wears  its  twin. 


Love!     Marriage!     Divorce!     Laughter!    Tears! 


T  OUD  weeping  and  gnashing  of  teeth  in 
-"Hollywood !  The  most  eligible  bachelor,  the 
prize  romance  and  international  "heart"  of 
filmdom  is  married!  Richard  Dix,  whose  en- 
gagement had  been  reported,  and  sometimes 
verified,  to  more  girls  than  there  are  in  a 
Ziegfeld  chorus,  dashed  to  Arizona  and  made 
those  old  vows.  And  the  lucky  little  lady  isn't 
even  a  home  town  product.  No  sir,  a  San 
Francisco  lassie,  a  society  girl  with  no  movie 
connections,  just  upped  and  walked  away  with 
Hollywood's  big  moment. 

Her  name  is  Winifred  Coe.  She  is  twenty- 
three.  Dix  met  her  about  five  years  ago  and 
they  corresponded  spasmodically.  Then,  a 
month  before  the  wedding,  she  came  to  Holly- 
wood and  twenty  hours  after  their  engagement 
was  announced,  a  justice  of  the  peace  wished 
them  joy.    Dix  gave  his  age  as  thirty-seven. 

HpHE  picture,  "Bad  Girl,"  will  go  down  in 
•*■  history.  First  of  all  it  re-discovered  the 
talents  of  Sally  Eilers.  Sally  had  been  doing 
good  leading  woman  work,  always  dependable, 
would  give  a  creditable  performance  but  never 
sensational.  And  then  she  made  Hollywood 
and  the  rest  of  the  world  sit  up  and  bark  when 
she  turned  in  that  marvelous  job  in  "  Bad  Girl." 
But  the  five-day  wonder  is  the  lad,  Jimmie 
Dunn.  John  Barrymore,  who  seldom  sees 
pictures,  went  to  "Bad  Girl"  two  nights  in 
succession  and  wrote  Jimmie  a  note  of  con- 
gratulation, which  the  kid  will  keep  forever. 

JIMMIE  is  invited  everywhere  and  whenever 
he's  seen  with  a  new  girl  it's  news.  He  and 
Molly  O'Day  have  just  denied  their  engage- 
ment and  Jimmie  says  he  can't  even  think  of 
marriage  until  there's  a  lot  of  money  in  the 
bank.  But  Anita  Page  doesn't  make  any 
secret  of  the  fact  that  she  thinks  Jimmie  is  her 
idea  of  a  swell  guy. 

He's  a  favorite  at  the  studio  and,  to  show  his 
appreciation  of  the  part  the  workers  played  in 
his  success,  he  invited  all  the  electricians,  prop 
boys  and  "grips"  to  his  house  for  dinner.  And 
he  bought  fifty  dollars  worth  of  spaghetti! 

TJTERE'S  the  news  you've  been  waiting  for, 
-*-  all  you  loyal  Clara  Bow  fans  who  have 
been  pulling  for  the  Brooklyn  burr-'em-up  kid. 
She's  going  back  to  work.  Starts  December  1. 
And  a  few  months  later  you'll  actually  be 
seeing  her  on  the  screen  again.  Her  first 
picture  is  called  "Get  the  Woman,"  and  Sam 
Rork,  an  independent  producer,  is  the  clever 
one  who  got  Clara  to  write  her  name  on  the 
dotted  line. 

Clara  spent  a  couple  of  weeks  in  Hollywood 

36 


Keystone 


Here  is  four-star  news  for  Joan  Ben- 
nett's fan  army!  Photographic  proof 
that  the  darling  is  on  her  feet  again, 
after  weeks  in  a  Hollywood  hospital 
with  spine  injuries  received  when 
she  was  thrown  from  a  horse  while 
on  location.  Glad  you're  up,  Joan  — 
we  can't  spare  a  single  member  of 
the  house  of  Bennett! 


Wide  World 

"Marrying  James"  Kirkwood,  one  of 
Hollywood's  chronic  husbands,  tries 
again !  Dauntless  Jim,  once  married 
to  Lila  Lee,  with  his  fourth  wife,  Bea- 
trice Powers.  She's  a  pretty  twenty- 
two-year-old  blonde  who  plays  in 
pictures.    James  is  in  the  late  forties 


recently.  More  dental  work.  She  was  looking 
better  than  she  has  for  months.  But  the  noise 
of  the  city  upset  her  so  she  went  back  to  Rex 
Bell's  ranch,  where  she  was  when  the  announce- 
ment about  her  return  to  the  screen  was  made. 
She'll  be  perfectly  fit  by  December  first.  The 
nurse  has  already  been  dismissed. 

Everybody  kept  mum's  the  word  on  salary, 
but  she  was  demanding  $150,000  a  picture 
when  Universal  was  angling  for  her. 

TNCIDENTALLY,  Clara  has  rejected  all 
■^■offers  of  help  or  "ghost  writing"  on  the  book 
she  is  doing — her  own  life  story.  Clara  says 
she  is  going  to  write  every  word  of  her  auto- 
biography herself. 

T  ILYAN  T ASHMAN  and  Eleanor  Board- 
^man  have  made  up.  You  know  there  was 
a  coolness  between  these  two  old  friends  soon 
after  both  joined  the  ranks  of  Paramount. 

It  seems  to  have  begun  with  a  casual  re- 
mark of  Lilyan's  about  Eleanor's  not  always 
being  as  careful  as  she  might  be  in  her  choice 
of  clothes. 

A  "mutual  friend"  (a  man)  dashed  right 
back  to  Eleanor  and  said  Lil  claimed  Eleanor 
didn't  know  how  to  dress! 

And  just  about  the  same  time,  Eleanor  had 
Adrian  do  over  her  (and  King  Vidor's)  home. 
In  green  and  white.  Now,  Lilyan  had  used 
red  and  white  in  her  new  Malibu  home 
decorations.  She  thought  that  Eleanor  might 
be  copy-catting  a  little,  especially  as  she'd 
carried  her  home  scheme  to  her  dressing-room, 
just  after  Lilyan  had  done  her  dressing-room. 


fall; 


Beauty!    Success!    Failure!    That's  Hollywood! 


Oh  dear — this  picture  has  us  all  con- 
fused and  bothered.  The  dark  man 
on  the  left  must  be  Charlie  Gandhi, 
Hindu  film  comic,  and  the  gent  in  the 
bed-sheet  looks  like  the  Mahatma 
Chaplin,  of  Hollywood.  Goodness, 
the  engraver  has  messed  this  all  up! 


L_TOW  far  it  might  have  gone,  one  never 
*■  -*-can    tell. 

Then  one  evening,  Eleanor  called  a  friend 
ind  asked  her  to  come  up  to  the  King 
Vidor's. 

The  friend  had  guests.  "Bring  them  along," 
Eleanor  pleaded. 

Lilyan  Tashman  and  Edmund  Lowe  were 
imong  the  guests.  They  went  along.  Lilyan 
hashed  right  up  to  Eleanor  and  said  graciously, 
'Your  house  is  lovely!" 

Eleanor  smiled.  "I  hope  you  like  it  better 
than  my  dresses — " 

Lilyan  laughed  gaily.    "Now,  Eleanor — " 

And  being  two  intelligent  women  all  was 
forgotten  and  they're  as  chummy  as  before. 

BARBARA  STANWYCK  was  pretty  mad 
■'-'when  everybody  said  that  Frank  Fay  had 
caused  the  trouble  between  her  and  her 
studio.  "He  didn't,  he  didn't,"  she  cried. 
"Why,  he's  the  grandest  man  in  the  world 
and  he  wanted  to  patch  up  the  trouble  peace- 
fully while  I  was  so  stubborn  about  it."  Any- 
how, the  trouble  got  patched  up  and  Barbaia 
started  to  work,  only  to  run  into  some  more 
tough  luck. 

She  was  riding  a  horse  (for  the  purposes 
of  the  picture)  along  the  beach,  when  the 
animal  reared  and  fell  into  the  sand.  Both 
of  Barbara's  legs  were  sprained  but  (you  know 
the-show-must-go-on  stuff)  she  said,  "We'll 
have  to  hurry  and  finish  this  scene  before  my 
legs  start  to  stiffen." 

Right  after  that  she  and  Adolphe  Menjou 
swam  fifty  yards  into  the  water.    Immediately 


World 


Why,  Mary  Pickford !  You'd  tell  us  a 
fish  story,  and  what  a  whopper!  Any- 
way, Mary  deposes  and  says  she 
caught  the  150-pound  sword  fish  and 
175-pound  shark  with  her  own  little 
rod  and  reel.  And  the  photographer 
proves  her  story.  Now  does  Doug 
have  to  take  a  cameraman  along  to 
prove  his  low  golf  scores? 


that  they  reached  the  shore  again, 
fainted  and  was  taken  to  a  hospital. 
She's  better  now. 


Barbara 


T  OTS  of  people  got  excited  over  that  report 
■^f rom  Paris  that  Gloria  Swanson  had  married 
Michael  Farmer,  the  handsome  Irish  playboy 
there,  last  August. 

But  Gloria  herself  only  laughed. 

"How  silly!"  she  said.  "My  divorce  isn't 
final  until  November." 

And  now  it  looks  as  if  these  two  have  come 
to  a  parting  along  the  love  route.  It  may  be 
just  a  lovers'  spat.  Or  it  may  be  serious. 
Time  is  the  old  boy  who  tells. 

•"THE  Doug  Fairbanks,  Juniors,  are  still  hav- 
*■  ing  to  utter  daily  denials  that  the  stork 
is  on  the  way. 

And  only  slightly  less  persistent  is  another 
rumor  they  busily  deny — that  Doug  and  Joan 
are  to  separate. 

The  inside  report  is  that  M-G-M  has 
cautioned  Joan  against  having  a  baby.  They 
feel  that  she  could  not  afford  to  take  the  time 
off,  just  when  she  is  at  the  peak  of  her  career, 
and  that  motherhood  would  have  a  bad  effect 
upon  her  popularity. 

As  for  the  separation,  Hollywood  persists 
in  buzzing. 

JOAN  CRAWFORD  and  Doug,  Jr., 
J  have  done  their  house  over  again. 
First  it  was  Spanish,  then  English, 
and  now  Billy  Haines,  who  has  be- 
come a  grand  interior  decorator,  has 
changed  it  to  early  American  and  it's 
perfect. 

"FRIENDSHIPS  come  and  go  in  Hollywood 
■*-  — like  romances.  Here's  a  new  one.  Joan 
Crawford  and  Marlene  Dietrich.  They  have 
become  intimates — go  to  previews  together, 
exchange  calls,  and  discuss  their  domestic 
problems,  like  a  couple  of  old  cronies.  Joan 
has  just  one  large  picture  on  her  dressing  room 
table  at  M-G-M.  You've  guessed  it.  It's 
Marlene.  And  photographs  of  Marlene's  baby 
decorate  the  walls. 

'T'HEY  were  quite  sure  that  the  title  "The 
■*■  Impatient  Virgin"  would  never  get  by  the 
Hays  office. 

So  they  thought  and  thought  and  thought. 

And  finally,  Carl  Laemmle,  Jr.,  had  the 
bright  idea  for  a  change  of  title  for  the  play 
when  Universal  talkifies  it. 

It'll  be  called  "The  Impatient  Maiden." 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  92  ] 

37 


LOVE 


Laughs  at  .Locksmiths 


Suave  Herbert  Mar- 
shall —  lovely  Edna 
Best.  The  promise 
of  stardom  couldn't 
keep  her  from  him 


WHEN,  some  months  ago,  a  New  York  stage  actress 
named  Edna  Best  suddenly  ran  away  from  the 
M-G-M  Studios  and  left  Jack  Gilbert  gasping  and 
leading-woman-less  on  "The  Phantom  of  Paris" 
set,  giving  as  the  sole  reason  for  her  astonishing  gesture  the  fact 
that  she  couldn't  be  separated  from  her  husband — Hollywood 
said,  "Pooh  pooh  and  a  couple  of  pish-tushes." 

Things  like  that  weren't  done.  Jobs  were  too  scarce  to  chuck 
for  husbands.  There  must  be  another  reason.  But  there  wasn't. 

Edna  was  sorry  if  she'd  caused  the  studio  any  trouble.  She 
hoped  Mr.  Gilbert  wouldn't  be  angry  with  her.  She  returned 
the  money  she'd  received  in  salary  and  sent  a  telegram  to  the 
officials  from  her  Eastbound  train.  The  executives  had  been  so 
awfully  kind  to  her — but,  you  see,  she  had  discovered  she 
simply  couldn't  stay  in  Hollywood  when  her  husband  was  in 
New  York.  Hollywood  raised  a  nonchalant  left  eyebrow  and 
snickered  behind  its  well-manicured  hand. 

And  then  we  were  given  a  look  at  the  reason  for  the  sensa- 
tional walk-out.  And  there  never  was  a  more  valid  one.  In 
New  York,  Edna's  husband,  Herbert  Marshall,  made  a  picture 
called  "Secrets  of  a  Secretary"  with  Claudette  Colbert.  If 
you've  seen  the  film  you  know  that  Herbert's  fine  profile  and 
his  charm  are  something  to  go  to  New  York  for. 

On  the  stage  he  was  already  well-known.  His  acting  in  "To- 
morrow and  Tomorrow"  was  one  of  the  bright  glows  in  the 
dullest  theatrical  season  New  York  has  had  in  years.  The  show 
was  an  outstanding  hit  and  the  "Standing  Room  Only"  sign 
was  a  nightly  fixture  as  the  crowds  clamored  for  a  look  at  him. 

Matinee  idols,  as  dear  old  grandma  knew  them,  no  longer  are 
in  fashion.  But  Herbert  was  the  nearest  approach  to  a  matinee 
idol  New  York  has  had  since  Lou  Tellegen's  face  fell  and  John 

38 


Barrymore  transferred  the  elegant  outlines  of  his  classic  profile 
to  the  Gold  Coast. 

The  show  was  a  hit,  but  the  triumph  was  largely  Marshall's. 
It  was  while  he  was  charming  them  into  insensibility  in  "To- 
morrow and  Tomorrow"  (by  the  way,  Ruth  Chatterton  and 
Paul  Lukas  are  going  to  do  that  on  the  screen)  that  the  movie 
magnates  got  after  him  and  deluged  him  with  offers. 

"I  believe  deluge  is  the  word,"  he  said.  "I  had  three  and 
when  an  actor  gets  three  offers  in  America  his  public  statements 
should  read  'deluged.'  " 

IT  was  while  he  was  working  on  the  stage  that  Edna  went  to 
Hollywood  and  returned  as  quickly  as  she  went.  Then  Herbert 
accepted  the  Paramount  offer  to  make  a  film  in  New  York. 
Edna  was  near  him  when  "Secrets  of  a  Secretary"  was  being 
filmed.  And  that's  one  of  the  reasons  that  he  was  so  good  and 
won  such  a  large  chunk  of  the  fan  heart. 

Herbert  is  English.  His  father  was  a  well-known  English 
actor.  But  it  was  for  a  business  career  that  the  young  Marshall 
was  educated.  "But,"  he  said,  "I  seemed  utterly  unable  to 
hold  a  job.  I  was  fired  so  often  that  I  finally  gave  up  in 
desperation  and  went  on  the  stage." 

He  was  wounded  in  the  war  and  spent  many  months  in  the 
hospital.  It  left  him  with  a  stiff  leg,  but  so  skilfully  does  he 
carry  himself  on  the  stage  that  very  few  of  the  thousands  who 
saw  him  in  New  York  last  season  knew  it.  And  I'll  bet  that 
even  you  sharp-eyed  fans  will  be  surprised  when  you  read  it 
here.    It  seems  only  to  make  his  carriage  more  attractive. 

Seeing  Herbert,  you  know  why  love  laughed  at  locksmiths 
and  studio  contracts  and  big  chances.  Edna  and  Herbert  are 
now  in  London  together  and  will  not  be  separated  again. 


i 


Hut  llOt  AT  THE  \T 


rocer 


Marriage  ended 
when  Loretta  Young 
told  the  judge  that 
hubby  Grant  Withers 
didn't  pay  some  bills 


WHEN  Loretta  Young  took  the  stand  to  testify  in 
her  divorce  complaint  against  Grant  Withers  the 
judge  asked,  "Did  he  buy  you  any  food?" 
"I  should  say  not,"  Loretta  answered.    "I  paid 
ill  the  grocery  bills." 

And  there — pfttt! — was  the  end  of  a  beautiful  romance.  You 
•emember  their  mad-cap  elopement  to  Yuma.  You  remember 
-oretta's  mother's  attempted  annulment.  You  remember  that 
Loretta  was  under  age.  You  remember  the  storm  of  protest. 
3ut  these  hazards  simply  brought  the  two  kids  closer  together 
ind  made  their  little  love  nest — in  a  swanky  Hollywood  apart- 
nent — all  the  more  exciting. 

The  studio  which  held  their  contracts  cashed  in  by  playing 
.hem  together  in  a  picture  called  "  Too  Young  to  Marry."  Oh, 
ove  laughed  at  parental  disapproval.  It  was  a  grocer  that 
separated  Grant  and  Loretta.  He,  along  with  a  dressmaker  and 
i  butcher,  called  around  at  the  flat  for  some  unromantic  money. 
Loretta  had  to  open  her  pocketbook.  And  that  is  something 
:hat  love  can't  stand. 

But  don't  get  the  idea  that  Loretta  is  a  bent  and  broken 
dower  on  the  stem  of  life.  Living  at  home  again  with  her 
nother  and  sisters,  Sally  Blane  and  Polly  Ann  Young,  she  has 
oecome  a  thoughtful  and  poised  young  woman.  It  is  almost 
ncredible  that  she  has  done  so  much  in  her  short  span  of  years. 
\  leading  woman  for  four  years,  now  being  groomed  for  star- 
iom,  and  a  divorcee  she  is — yet  this  is  the  first  winter  that  she 
vill  not  be  accompanied  by  a  school  teacher  while  she's  work- 
ng- 

"I  thought  I  was  madly  in  love  with  Grant,"  she  said,  "but 
[  guess  I  wasn't.  Had  I  been  I'd  have  put  up  with  everything 
ie  did  and  would  not  have  divorced  him. 


"I've  only  seen  Grant  twice  to  talk  to  since  our  separation. 
Both  times  he  wanted  to  make  up.  But  the  feeling  I  once  had 
for  him  just  isn't  in  me  any  longer.  I  don't  love  him  now  and  I 
see  that  our  natures  are  too  different  for  us  ever  to  get  along. 

"  My  marriage  has  robbed  me  of  the  ideals  I  once  had.  I  had 
notions  of  a  perfect  husband.  When  they  didn't  materialize  I 
was  disappointed.  But  there's  no  use  crying  about  it.  Now  I 
know  what  to  expect  from  marriage.  Though  our  marriage  was 
a  mistake  and  a  failure  I'm  glad  it  happened.  It  changed  me 
from  an  idealistic  girl  to  a  practical  woman! "  And  she's  only 
eighteen,  the  age  when  most  girls  are  entering  college. 

BUT  with  Grant  it's  different.  His  closest  friends  say  he  was 
frightfully  cut-up  by  the  divorce  and  his  screen  career  indi- 
cates as  much.  When  they  were  married  they  were  of  equal  im- 
portance in  Hollywood -two  well  known  featured  players.  They 
both  had  good  contracts.  Now  Loretta  is  being  fitted  for  star- 
dom by  Warner  Bros,  and  is  treated  with  all  the  respect  of  a 
Chatterton  or  a  Shearer.  Loretta  is  going  up,  while  Grant's 
luck  has  not  brought  him  so  many  big  parts. 

Grant  has  never  cared  much  for  financial  success.  Interest- 
ing, yes.  Amusing,  oh  sure.  But  a  dollar,  according  to  his 
vagabond  philosophy,  was  made  for  the  spending.  And  his  idea 
of  a  good  time  is  hob-nobbing  with  his  men  friends.  Whereas 
Loretta  is  so  much  of  a  fad  that  if  she  doesn't  watch  herself 
she'll  be  taken  up  by  the  literati.  People  are  always  drawing 
you  aside  to  confide,  "  This  Loretta  Young — that  girl  has  a  real 
mind!" 

Edna  Best  wouldn't  have  a  continent  between  her  and 
Herbert  Marshall.  But  one  apartment — when  it  was  cluttered 
by  bill  collectors — could  not  hold  Grant  and  Loretta. 

39 


llow  IVladge  lL 


G 


rew 


vans 


lo     Ot 


ar 


do 


m 


A  RECENT  New  York  visitor  to  Hollywood  who  knows 
the  New  York  stage  as  Webster  knows  the  English 
language,  said:  ''I  believe  the  most  amazing  untold 
story  in  Hollywood  lies  in  Madge  Evans.  In  the  first 
place,  child  stars  are  not  supposed  to  make  good  when  they 
return  to  pictures  as  men  and  women.    Madge  was  a  child  star. 

"In  the  second  place,  she  was  a  simple  little  ingenue  on  the 
stage.  A  dainty  figure;  a  sweet  face.  Like  dozens  of  others. 
But  in  Hollywood!  Sophisticated;  alluring.  She  has  that  new 
glamour  that  Photoplay  talked  about  a  few  months  ago." 

The  woman  mused  a  moment.  "  Really,  someone  must  have 
lifted  her  vocal  cords.  Now,  even  her  voice  is  deep  and 
intriguing.  They  must  have  pulled  her  out  in  front  and  tied 
her  up  behind.  Her  figure  has  curves.  She's  even  learned 
what  to  do  with  her  hands  and  her  feet.  Why  don't  you 
find  out  what  happened  to  her?" 

I  hurried  out  to  inspect  Madge  Evans. 

And  although  she  was  in  loose,  rather  indifferent  house- 
pajamas,  I'll  have  to  grant  the  visitor  was  correct.  If  I  had 
been  a  man — but  I  wasn't! 

Now,  I  have  always  had  a  secret  belief  that  sincerity  is  the 
hidden  reason  for  success.  Of  course,  it  isn't  fashionable  to 
admit  sincerity  in  this  age  of  pretense.  But  I  came  from  Madge 
more  convinced.  I  had  discovered  that  even  indifference  which 
is  sincere  leads  to  fame  and  money  and  all  the  other  words 
which  represent  that  indefinable  something  for  which  we  yearn. 

For  no  one  could  have  been 
more  indifferent  to  re-entering 
pictures  than  Madge.  For  that 
matter,  she  was  completely  in- 
different at  her  first  entrance. 
She  lived  in  an  apartment  with 
her  mother — where  lived  a  direc- 
tor. 

He  asked  permission  to  use 
her  in  a  production.  At  five  she 
was  a  child  star  with  her  own 
company,  like  Lillian  Gish  and 
the  others.  One  hundred  and 
fifty  a  week  and  all  expenses. 
Big  money! 

HER  mother  saved  it.  And 
then  Madge  signed  for  the 
Madge  Evans  hats.  In  those 
days  it  was  unheard  of  for  a  star 
to  tie-up  with  a  commercial  pro- 
duct. Therefore,  when  promoters 
persuaded  her  to  use  her  name  to 
boost  children's  hats,  they  prom- 
ised her  an  excellent  income  for 
as  long  as  they  used  her  name  on 
the  hats.  They  are  still  using  it. 
Madge's  personality  has  long 
been  completely  divorced  from 
the  hats  but  she  still  draws  a 
little  income  from  them,  and 
they  have  kept  her  name  before 
the  public. 

At  ten  she  shot  up  as  unex- 
pectedly as  a  water-spout.  At 
twelve  she  was  as  tall  as  she  is 
today.  She  weighed  85  pounds. 
She  was  through  with  pictures 
because  pictures  were  through 
with  her. 


At  eight,  with  three  years  of  stardom  behind 

her.    Madge  wasn't  as  interested  in  pictures 

as  they  were  in  her.    She  wanted  to  go  to 

boarding  school 


Just  jump  your  eye 
from  this  page  to  that 
and  see  a  little  girl 
grow  into  a  young  lady 

By   Ruth    Biery 


She  was  glad.  She  had  wanted  to  go  to  boarding  school, 
anyway.  She  had  been  sending  for  booklets  for  months.  When 
she  found  she  couldn't  be  admitted  because  she  had  learned 
only  reading  and  history  on  the  picture  sets,  and  no  arithmetic, 
she  was  heartbroken.  She  had  to  content  herself  with  special 
teachers.  But  she  must  find  some  diversion  from  such  a  bore- 
some  routine! 

The  stage.  She  knew  actresses  because  she,  herself,  had  been 
an  actress.  By  the  time  she  was  adolescent,  she  had  determined 
to  be  an  Ethel  Barrymore  or  Mrs.  Leslie  Carter.     She  was 

through  with  the  screen  forever. 
She  wavered  once.  They 
couldn't  find  a  girl  in  New  York 
to  play  with  Richard  Barthel- 
mess  in  "Classmates."  Some- 
one remembered  Madge  Evans. 
She  had  had  experience.  She 
was  fifteen.  She  turned  up  her 
hair  and  tried  to  turn  on  matu- 
rity in  the  same  manner.  It  was 
a  failure.  Time  had  not  had  a 
chance  to  act  as  plastic  surgeon 
for  either  her  youth  or  her  figure. 
She  was  miserable  while  making 
the  picture. 

Hatred  of  pictures  became  a 
complex;  a  yearning  for  stage 
fame  became  an  obsession! 


HER  debut  on  the  stage  was 
as  easy  as  her  original  debut 
in  pictures.  William  A.  Brady, 
who  had  headed  the  World  Film 
Company,  was  now  a  stage  pro- 
ducer. He  had  remained  a 
family  friend.  He  pulled  the 
wires  of  New  York's  theatrical 
politics,  so  Madge  stepped  into 
a  role  in  "Daisy  Mayme"  as 
easily  as  you  step  on  a  rug  which 
is    cushioned. 

The  play  ran  twenty-two 
weeks  and  at  its  conclusion  an- 
other sweet  little  thing,  another 
natural  ingenue,  was  definitely 
established. 

It  was  only  natural  that  pro- 
ducers played  her  as  she  looked. 
Lovable,  youthful,  pretty.    Not 

[  PLEASE   TURN  TO  "PAGE  122  ] 


W 


Hurrell 


SHE  didn't  want  to  go  back  to  Hollywood  and  possible  talkie  fame — this  lovely  Madge 
Evans  who  was  a  baby  star  fifteen  years  ago!  She  was  in  love  with  the  New  York 
stage — and  a  New  York  boy.  But  producers  dangled  big,  plump  checks — and  read  on  the 
opposite  page  how  Madge  tackled  the  problem! 


N 


ew 


s 


creen 


Fashi 


ons 


that 


WOU  can  use  fur  about 
'  as  you  please  this  win- 
ter— the  more,  the  better. 
Mae  Clarke  wears  a  vest- 
like arrangement  of  that 
popular  animal,  baronduki, 
on  a  tan  wool  crepe  dress. 
Cuff  detail  with  button  fast- 
ening points  to  the  trend  for 
sleeve  elaboration.  See  this 
in  "Frankenstein." 


P)ONT  underestimate  the  value  of  your  screen  fashions 
^  Even  though  you  can't  run  out  to  your  favorite  shop  and 
buy  things  exactly  like  them,  you  can  go  back  home  with  a 
wealth  of  ideas  for  pepping  up  your  own  clothes  picture.  Do 
you  spot  the  new  trends  on  the  screen?  The  star's  clothes  are 
all  ahead  of  the  procession.  They're  designed  by  skilled  stylists 
who  know  every  beat  of  the  fashion  pulse.  When  a  star  wears 
a  wide  cuff  on  a  dress — it's  news!  A  new  hat  is  an  event  you 
don't  want  to  miss.  Get  the  habit  of  shopping  with  a  thought 
like  this:  "Where  can  I  find  a  dress  that  has  sleeves  like  the  one 
Norma  Shearer  wore  in  that  picture  I  saw  last  night?"  And 
another  thing — the  screen  shows  you  how,  when  and  where 
to  Wear  its  styles.    Fashions  with  a  setting! 


THE  EUGENIE  hat  is 

'  dead- — but  long  live 
such  rakish,  tilted  caps 
as  this  one,  say  I.  It  has 
a  come-hither  air  aug- 
mented by  Lil  Tash- 
man's  devastating  look. 
It  matches  the  suit  Lil 
wears  in  "Girls  About 
Town,"  but  you  will  be 
seeing  it  "about  town" 
in  various  guises.  It  s 
well  dubbed  a  pan- 
cake hat,  don't  you 
think? 


DON'T  go  whoopsy-doopsy  with 
these  new  hats,"  says  Lilyan 
Tashman.  And  to  save  you  from  such 
a  fate,  Lil  wears  this  trim  blue  felt  in 
Girls  About  Town."  Note  the 
modified  line.  It  rolls  up  in  back  and 
down  over  one  eye. 


Show    the    Trends    of    Style 


l/AY  FRANCIS  is 
'^  one  girl  who  need 
not  moan  over  any 
backless  even  i  ng 
trend,  if  this  stunning 
green  crepe  evening 
dress  she  wears  in 
"Girls  About  Town" 
is  a  sample.  That  knot- 
ting of  the  shoulder 
ties  with  the  belt  is  a 
new  twist  you'll  be 
seeing 


A  BACK  twist!  Not  an 
'  *  acrobatic  stunt,  but  one 
of  the  cleverest  costume  de- 
tails I've  seen.  This  one,  on 
a  white  crepe  gown  worn 
by  Juliette  Compton  in  "Rich 
Man's  Folly,"  is  formed  by  the 
bodice  and  shoulder  straps. 
Unlike  that  of  Kay  Francis',  it 
tends  to  build  up  the  back 
decolletage  somewhat.  The 
neckline  of  this  dress  is  quite 
high  in  the  front — a  popular 
characteristic  of  many  new 
dresses. 


HERE  S  romance  for  you!  Black  fox  on  peach  velvet 
Fur  is  that  extra  elegance  you  will  find  on  every- 
thing this  winter.  The  bias  cut  gives  Linda  Watkins'  figure 
a  svelte  line.  I  like  the  shoulder  bows,  Linda — makes 
your  waist  look  so  small.   See  it  in  "Good  Sport." 


Hurrell 


A  DISH  of  fruit,  a  few  nuts,  a  cheery  fireplace,  a  couple  of  stone  dogs — and  Joan 
Crawford,  dark-haired  again  and  more  beautiful  than  ever!  And  even  at  home  she's 
giving  us  that  glowing  smile  that  burns  up  the  camera.  Don't  worry  about  Young  Doug! 
He's  just  coming  in  the  front  door  after  a  golf  game ! 


The 


(comeback  \_jli 


am 


P 


By 

Evaline 
Lieber 


WE  talk  much  about 
"comebacks"  in  this 
business. 
You  know  what  we 
mean.  The  actors  and  actresses 
who  reach  the  heights  only  to 
toboggan  with  such  suddenness 
and  force  as  to  make  us,  as  well  as 
themselves,  dizzy;  who  pick  them- 
selves up  and  climb  the  steep  grade 
again  exactly  as  though  they  had 
never  climbed  it. 

They  are  legion;  enough  to  pop- 
ulate a  small  town.  They  are  like 
those  who  inhabit  a  hamlet.  A 
cyclone  sweeps  relentlessly  upon 
them.  Proud  and  majestic  one 
moment;  destitute  and  bereaved 
the  next.  But  a  few  years  later? 
—  rehabilitated;  reorganized. 
Again,  proud  and  majestic. 

Our  population  of  the  rehabili- 
tated is  increasing  daily.  Think 
of  the  past  year!  Sally  O'Neil. 
Three  years  of  almost  complete 
oblivion,  and  today  a  new  contract 
with  Fox.  Lois  Wilson;  Ben  Lyon, 
Billie  Dove;  Lew  Cody. 

Adolphe  Menjou;  Pola  Negri; 
Doris  Kenyon;  Neil  Hamilton; 
Sally  Eilers;  Mae  Marsh.  Mae! 
A  wife  and  a  mother,  long  retired. 

The  list  seems  almost  endless. 

Yet,  there  is  a  champion  among 
them.     Ricardo  Cortez  has  made  so  many  pictures  for  major 
companies  in  the  past  eighteen  months  that  other  Hollywood 
tobogganers  could  not  but  say,  "  If  he  can  do  it,  we  can  do  it! " 

Yet  there  was  a  time  when  he  was  as  extinct  in  pictures  as 
the  horse  and  buggy  in  transportation. 

When  you  ask  him  how  he  did  it,  he  answers  in  one  word: 

"Fight!" 

IF  Cortez  was  ever  self-satisfied,  it  was  when  he  was  leading 
man,  top-notcher,  at  the  Paramount  studio,  from  1922  to 
1926.     Fame;  big  money. 

"I  was  never  late  on  the  set;  I  didn't  smoke  on  the  lot;  I  left 
the  girls,  on  the  lot  and  off,  alone.  They  didn't  have  a  more 
conscientious  worker.    I  knew  it." 

Yes,  he  knew  it.  Proud  of  his  blameless  record.  He  thought 
it  made  him  safe.    It  didn't. 

They  wanted  him  to  make  a  picture  at  Universal.  He  didn't 
object  if  it  was  a  good  story.  Remember,  Universal  in  that  day 
was  the  step-daughter  of  the  industry.  It  had  slid  the  tobog- 
gan, too;  had  not  re-climbed  to  its  present  glory. 

A  Paramount  executive  told  him  it  was  a  great  part. 

"Have  you  read  the  storv?" 

"No." 

"Then  how  do  you  know  it  is  a  good  part?" 


Ricardo  Cortez  went  down,  but  he  refused  to  be 
counted  out.  He  began  his  fight  back  and  made 
a   big   hit    in  "Transgression,"  with    Kay  Francis 


A  bit  superior!  Possibly  so. 
Anyway,  Ricardo  went  to  see  the 
man  who  was  to  direct  it;  one  who 
had  never  before  made  a  picture. 

"Do  you  want  me  for  this 
picture?" 

"No.  I  want  Francis  X.  Bush- 
man." 

Ricardo  returned  to  his  Para- 
mount executive. 

He  said  the  director  didn't  want 
him;  he  didn't  wish  to  make  the 
picture. 

"You  must." 

"I  won't." 

HE  decided  Paramount  was 
trying  to  get  rid  of  him.  Like 
a  small  boy  who  is  being  punished 
for  something  he  can't  understand 
and  who  suspects  it  is  because  his 
mother  and  father  don't  love  him. 
He  asked  for  his  release.  And 
he  was  so  certain  of  instantaneous 
success  in  other  studios  that  he 
voluntarily  gave  up  the  §60,000 
due  for  the  remaining  ten  months 
on  his  contract.  Proud;  inde- 
pendent. 

He  drove  from  Hollywood  to 
Culver  City  and  signed  for  "Love," 
with  Greta  Garbo,  at  M-G-M  at 
twice  his  Paramount  salary.  See? 
He  was  right!  He  had  used  his 
head — 
Only,  big  studios  don't  let  little  boys  teach  them  lessons. 
They  do  the  teaching.  "Love"  had  been  in  work  three  weeks 
when  production  was  stopped.  John  Gilbert  replaced  Cortez. 
And  Cortez  played  a  small  supporting  role  to  Lon  Chaney; 
another  to  William  Haines;  other  inferior  roles. 

Black-balled?  Perhaps.  We've  heard  of  it.  When  a  star 
breaks  a  contract  or  displeases  one  studio,  it  frequently  asks 
protection  on  its  decision  from  the  others.  The  star  doesn't 
work. 

Alice  White,  for  example.  Sometimes  this  is  fair;  more  often 
it  isn't.    However,  we  can't  go  into  that  in  this  story. 

There  is  an  old  bromide:  "It  never  rains  but  it  pours."  But 
old  bromides  are  conceived  from  generations  of  experience. 
The  first  year  of  his  toboggan  slide  was  Cortez'  honeymoon 
year  with  Alma  Rubens.  He  adored  her  then;  he  adores  her 
memory  today.  Little  money  coming  in;  much  money  going 
out.  A  home  in  Beverly;  a  beautiful  wife  with  a  great  illness. 
Eighteen  months  ago  he  hit  bottom.  Money  gone;  friends 
talking;  a  domestic  separation.  He  had  never  been  on  the 
stage.  There  is  always  vaudeville  for  Hollywood  down-and- 
outers.  Could  he  do  it?  He  looked  at  his  bank  balance.  He 
must  do  it. 

A  vaudeville  act.  Endless  hours  of  practicing  something  of 
which  he  knew  nothing.    Opening  [  please  turn  to  page  109  ] 

i5 


Select   Your    Pictures    and    You    Won't 


* 


THE  SIN  OF  MADELON  CLAUDET—M-G-M 


IF  this  one  doesn't  pull  your  heart-strings  taut  and  leave 
you  a  limp  and  weeping  rag,  then  there's  something  wrong 
with  you.  But  it  ends  well  enough,  so  be  sure  to  see  it.  It's 
the  old  mother  love-sacrifice  stuff  but  it  makes  every  other 
picture  of  this  type  look  sick. 

Helen  Hayes,  a  stage  star,  does  things  to  your  emotions 
from  which  you  won't  recover  for  quite  a  spell.  Starting  the 
picture  as  a  young  girl  she  goes  the  downward  path  for  her 
son's  sake  and  ends  up  as  a  pathetic  little  old  hag.  It's  one 
of  the  greatest  performances  to  reach  the  screen.  Lewis 
Stone  and  Neil  Hamilton  are  both  excellent — but  it's  Helen's 
show. 

Originally  called  "Lullaby,"  this  picture  has  been  almost 
entirely  remade  with  great  success.    Don't  miss  it. 


* 


PLATINUM  BLONDE— Columbia 


HERE'S  a  picture  that  will  put  a  broad  smile  on  the 
exhibitor's  face.    And  you'll  go  away  with  a  nice  glow, 
feeling  that  you  have  been  well  entertained. 

It  has  just  about  everything — excellent  direction  and 
dialogue,  youth  and  beauty,  comedy  and  enough  drama. 
Robert  Williams,  as  the  wise-cracking  reporter  who  falls  in 
love  with  and  marries  a  platinum  blonde  society  girl,  Jean 
Harlow,  is  a  natural  for  the  part.  He  finds  it  impossible  to 
adjust  himself  to  the  ways  of  the  "400."  So  Gallagher,  a  girl 
on  his  paper  who  has  always  been  in  love  with  him,  gets  him 
eventually.  Loretta  Young's  part  of  Gallagher  is  small,  but 
she  does  it  well.  Louise  Closser  Hale,  Edmund  Breese, 
Walter  Catlett  and  others  in  the  cast  are  all  good.    See  this. 

46 


The 


Shad 


ow 


St 


a 


(REG.  U. "S.PAT.  OFF.) 


ge 


A  Review  of  the  New  Pictures 


*fe    THE  CUBAN  LOVE  SONG—M-G-M 

WHEN  you  put  Lawrence  Tibbett's  glorious  singing  and 
splendid  acting,  Lupe  Velez'  entrancing  lovemaking, 
and  Jimmy  Durante's  darn  foolishness  all  together  in  one 
film — you've  got  a  picture.  This  is  the  best  Tibbett  opus 
since  "The  Rogue  Song,"  and  they'll  be  starring  Durante 
soon.    He's  great. 

It  tells  the  yarn  of  a  trio  of  marines — Tibbett,  called  Terry 
in  the  story,  Durante  and  Ernest  Torrence — in  Cuba.  Al- 
though Tibbett  has  a  patrician  sweetheart  in  the  States,  he 
falls  in  love  with  a  concentrated  bundle  of  heat  named 
Nenita,  a  peanut  vendor,  who  is,  of  course,  Lupe.  There 
follows  a  love  sequence  that  is  idyllic  in  its  sweetness — and 
then  comes  the  war,  and  the  marine  goes  to  battle.  Ten 
years  later,  married  to  his  American  sweetheart,  he  hears  in 
a  cafe  the  peanut  vendor  song  and  it  recalls  Nenita.  In  a 
hilarious  jag  he  finds  his  ex-buddies  and  goes  back  to  Cuba — ■ 
only  to  discover  his  Nenita  married  and  mother  of  three 
children.    But  the  eldest  is  named  Terry. 

How  sweetly  it's  told  you  won't  know  until  you  see  it. 
And  when  Tibbett  sings,  you  forget  you're  in  a  theater. 
There's  no  hesitancy  in  recommending  this  because  it  has 
everything — romance,  comedy,  music! 


Have    to    Complain    About    the    Bad    Ones 


The  Best  Pictures  of  the  Month 

THE  CUBAN  LOVE  SONG  THE  CHAMP 

THE  SIN  OF  MADELON  CLAUDET 

PLATINUM  BLONDE     THE  SPIRIT  OF  NOTRE  DAME 

ARE  THESE  OUR  CHILDREN? 

LOCAL  BOY  MAKES  GOOD 

GIRLS  ABOUT  TOWN      STRICTLY  DISHONORABLE 

The  Best  Performances  of  the  Month 

Lawrence  Tibbett  in  "The  Cuban  Love  Song" 

Lupe  Velez  in  "The  Cuban  Love  Song" 

Jimmy  Durante  in  "The  Cuban  Love  Song" 

Wallace  Beery  in  "The  Champ" 

Jackie  Cooper  in  "The  Champ" 

Helen  Hayes  in  "The  Sin  of  Madelon  Claudet" 

Robert  Williams  in  "Platinum  Blonde" 

J.  Farrell  MacDonald  in  "The  Spirit  of  Notre  Dame" 

Eric  Linden  in  "Are  These  Our  Children?" 

Arlene  Judge  in  "Are  These  Our  Children?" 

Lilyan  Tashman  in  "Girls  About  Town" 

Paul  Lukas  in  "Strictly  Dishonorable" 

Sidney  Fox  in  "Strictly  Dishonorable" 

Madge  Evans  in  "Heartbreak" 

Casts  of  all  photoplays  revieived  will  be  found  on  page  123 


ft 


THE  CHAMP— M-G-M 


THERE  isn't  a  machine-gunning  in  it.  There's  no  more 
sexiness  in  it  than  there  is  in  an  annual  crop  report.  No 
colossal  sets;  no  song-and-dance  routines  .  .  . 

But  boy-oh-boy,  is  "The  Champ"  one  grand  picture!  It 
is — it's  one  of  the  best  talkies  of  the  year,  and  if  you  don't 
get  many  times  your  money's  worth  out  of  it,  you'd  better 
see  a  psychiatrist. 

Wallace  Beery  is  an  ex-heavyweight  champ,  who's  slid 
down  the  toboggan  via  booze  and  gambling,  until  he's  just  a 
Tia  Juana  bum.  Jackie  Cooper  is  his  son — and  the  love  be- 
tween them,  Jackie's  supreme  faith  in  his  dad,  is  a  thing 
beautifully  played  by  these  two  artists. 

As  the  story  unfolds,  you'll  howl  with  laughter,  you'll 
thrill  at  exciting  scenes — and,  suddenly,  you'll  come  up 
against  a  bit  that'll  tear  your  heart  out.  Whether  you're  old 
or  young,  woman  or  man,  you'll  cry  at  least  once,  and  you 
won't  be  ashamed.  There's  never  been  an  actor  who  can 
yank  tears  from  audiences  as  Jackie  Cooper  can.  And 
there's  never  been  an  actor  who  can  play  a  no-good  bum  and 
still  make  you  love  him  as  Wally  Beery  can. 

Direction  (by  King  Yidor),  story,  dialogue,  photography 
— all  grand.    Don't  miss  "The  Champ." 


ft 


THE  SPIRIT  OF  NOTRE  DAME— Universal 


HERE  is  the  first  feature-length  football  picture  of  the 
season.    It's  in  commemoration  of  Knute  Rockne,  with 
some  of  his  finest  players  cooperating. 

It  opens  appropriately  with  Rockne's  powerful,  magnetic 
instructions  to  his  team.  To  J.  Farrell  MacDonald  was 
given  the  difficult  task  of  playing  the  famous  coach,  and  no 
one  could  have  done  it  better. 

The  story  concerns  the  experiences  of  Lew  Ayres,  Billy 
Bakewell  and  Andy  Devine,  but  they  no  longer  seem  actors 
when  surrounded  by  the  great  Carideo,  the  Four  Horsemen, 
and  others.  Ayres  deserves  credit  for  taking  a  fearful  beat- 
ing (he  is  of  slight  build  and  not  an  athlete)  and  for  playing 
a  role  in  which  he  is  not  the  hero.  This  will  stir  the 
imagination  and  enthusiasm  of  the  youth  of  the  country 


it    Wk 

>^f           *! 

1      ^VX> 

#»  -  ^^ 

%  ^ 

k         _ 

f 

m 

y    W 

ft 


ARE  THESE  OUR  CHILDREN?— Radio  Pictures 


EVERY  parent  and  every  adolescent  should  see  this. 
Which  sounds  as  if  it  taught  a  lesson.    It  does — but  with- 
out detracting  from  the  excitement  of  the  story. 

Youth  is  the  theme.  The  plot  is  powerful  in  its  simplicity 
and  truthfulness.  Eric  Linden,  a  high  school  lad,  yearns  to 
win  honors.  His  first  attempt  is  a  failure  and  study  seems 
monotonous.  There's  a  little  high  school  temptress.  There 
are  road-houses,  petting  parties  and  easy  ways  of  making 
money.  See  what  happens.  Wesley  (Cimarron)  Ruggles  has 
done  a  remarkable  job  of  directing  the  young  people.  But 
he  has  weakened  his  story  by  trick  camera  shots.  The  acting 
is  superb,  with  eighteen  year-old  Eric  Linden  and  Arlene 
Judge,  who  recently  became  Ruggles'  bride,  winning  honors. 


Here's   Your   Monthly   Shopping  List! 


* 


LOCAL  BOY 

MAKES 

GOOD— 

First  National 


& 


GIRLS 
ABOUT 
TOWN— 
Paramount 


REMEMBER  the  old  Nugent  play,  "The  Poor  Nut"?  Re- 
member the  college  grind  with  inhibitions  and  botanical 
aspirations  and  how  he  won  a  track  victory  in  spite  of  psycho- 
analysis? They've  taken  all  that  old  stuff  and  made  a  picture 
that's  a  scream,  with  Joe  E.  Brown  funnier  than  he's  ever  been 
and  Dorothy  Lee  and  Ruth  Hall  as  the  girls.  You'll  chuckle 
over  this  for»weeks. 


ALL  that  old  business  about  the  beautiful  gold  digger  and 
the  not  too  tired  business  man  seems  new  in  this,  so 
scintillating  is  the  dialogue,  so  gorgeous  the  clothes.  Luscious 
Lilyan  Tashman  outdoes  herself  and  Kay  Francis  is  grand. 
Lucille  Gleason,  Joel  McCrea  and  Eugene  Pallette  put  plenty 
of  pep  into  their  parts.  There's  comedy  and — yes,  sir,  some 
romance.    The  lines  are  pleasantly  risque. 


^ 


STRICTLY 
DISHONOR- 
ABLE— 
Universal 


ONCE  A 
LADY— 
Paramount 


CARL  LAEMMLE,  JR.,  paid  a  lot  of  money  for  this  success- 
ful stage  play,  had  the  shocking  scenes  cut  out,  left  in  the 
sentiment  and  made  a  knockout  movie.  You'll  love  the  story 
of  the  grand  opera  singer  who  was  captured  by  the  innocent 
little  girl  from  Mississippi.  Paul  Lukas — oh,  such  charm,  such 
finesse.  Lewis  Stone — excellent  as  usual.  And  Sidney  Fox — 
surprisingly  good.    Excellent  entertainment. 


CHARMING  simplicity  and  Ruth  Chatterton's  acting 
justify  recommendation.  The  story  is  not  original.  It 
depends  upon  dialogue  and  situations  rather  than  dynamic 
action.  However,  Ruth,  as  a  Russian  woman  with  a  dual  per- 
sonality, not  only  gives  a  deep  and  intriguing  performance,  but 
rather  startlingly  blossoms  forth  as  a  real  beauty.  She  shares 
acting  honors  with  Geoffrey  Kerr,  Ivor  Novello  and  the  others. 


SECRET 
SERVICE— 
Radio  Pictures 


heart- 
break- 
Fox 


IF  this  weren't  so  furiously  over-acted,  it  might  have  been 
better.  It's  that  famous  old  stage  play  of  the  Civil  War,  re- 
counting the  hazardous  and  amorous  adventures  of  a  Northern 
spy  behind  the  Confederate  lines.  A  little  slow  after  the  reign 
of  World  War  pictures.  Richard  Dix  takes  the  bit  between 
his  teeth  and  acts  for  all  he  is  worth.  But  it  isn't  as  fine  work 
as  he  did  in  "Cimarron." 


HERE'S  a  delightful  love  story  with  war  background,  yet 
not  a  "war  picture."  It's  the  tale  of  the  love  of  an 
American  embassy  attache  in  Vienna  for  an  adorable  countess 
— and  of  how  that  love  triumphs  over  the  things  war  can  do. 
Madge  Evans  is  grand — beautiful,  and  an  actress  of  rare  depth. 
She  takes  top  honors  from  Charles  Farrell,  who  is,  nevertheless, 
good  as  the  American. 


The    First   and    Best   Talkie    Reviews! 


AMBAS- 
SADOR BILL 
—Fox 


THE 

BELOVED 
BACHELOR 
Paramount 


THE  cowboy  star,  Will  Rogers,  is  again  operating  in  a 
mythical  kingdom,  and  while  you  are  convulsed  with 
laughter  at  some  of  his  antics,  the  memory  of  "  King  Arthur's 
Court"  keeps  bobbing  up.  Rabid  Rogers  fans  won't  mind  this 
and  there  is  fun  enough  to  keep  you  hilarious  for  an  hour. 
Marguerite  Churchill  is  a  very  lovely  queen  while  Greta  Nissen 
makes  an  attractive  vamp. 


A  SCULPTOR'S  fiancee  leaves  him  through  misunder- 
standing when  he  adopts  a  little  girl,  but  returns  years 
later  to  become  the  grown-up  ward's  rival.  The  ward  wins  out, 
but  only  after  many  teasing  turns  of  the  plot.  This  story  alone 
is  pleasing,  but  backed  up  by  Charles  Ruggles'  screamingly 
good  comedy  the  picture  becomes  excellent  entertainment. 
Paul  Lukas  plays  the  sculptor  and  Dorothy  Jordan  his  ward. 


THE  RANGE 

FEUD— 

Columbia 


LEFTOVER 
LADIES— 
Tiffany  Prod. 


YOU'LL  think  you've  seen  this  picture  before,  so  familiar  is 
all  that  shoot  'em  up,  jump  on  a  horse,  ride,  ride,  ride  stuff. 
Buck  Jones  may  be  your  favorite  Western  star — but  you'll 
twiddle  your  thumbs  while  watching  this  offering.  John 
Wayne,  Susan  Fleming,  Wallace  McDonald  and  others  try 
their  best  to  push  it  along,  but  only  in  the  last  reel  does  it  pick 
up  a  little  speed. 


ONE  of  those  "should  a  woman  be  free"  things,  with 
divorcees  served  for  breakfast  and  mixed  up  in  your  shoe 
laces.  A  bit  over-acted  in  spots,  it  is  fair  entertainment  with 
convincing  work  done  by  Claudia  Dell,  who  has  gone  brunette, 
just  to  be  different.  Marjorie  Rambeau  plays  another  of  her 
priceless  roles,  while  Walter  Byron  and  Alan  Mowbray  do  the 
masculine  honors. 


WAY  BACK 
HOME— 
Radio  Pictures 


RIDERS  OF 
THE  PURPLE 
SAGE— 
Fox 


THIS  picture  will  strike  no  half-way  responses.  Either  you 
will  be  crazy  about  it  or  you  won't  hand  it  a  thing.  Thou- 
sands follow  Seth  Parker's  radio  hour,  and  his  first  film  repeats 
all  his  old-time  songs,  so  if  you're  a  fan  of  his  you'll  shut  off 
the  radio  when  this  picture  is  in  the  neighborhood  and  see  it. 
It's  home-town  comedy — by  cracky — and  at  least  a  relief  from 
the  current  sophistication. 


A  PERFECTLY  grand  Western,  produced  with  all  the 
thought  and  care  of  a  big  feature.  The  plot  of  the  Zane 
Grey  yarn  is  typical  and  well  known — but  the  Arizona 
scenery,  the  smooth-flowing,  fast  action  and  a  breath-taking 
cattle  stampede  are  things  to  cheer  about.  George  O'Brien  and 
Marguerite  Churchill  do  good  work. 

[  ADDITIONAL  REVIEWS  ON  PAGE  122  ] 


A9 


Sound!     Camera!     Sync  it!    A  Dramatic 


TTNEARTHLY  quiet  has  fallen  on  the  First 
^  National  stage  where  Dorothy  Mackaill  is 
making  "Safe  in  Hell."  The  sound  man  has  given 
his  gadgets  their  final  twist  —  the  blond  lad 
at  the  camera  has  achieved  the  last  perfect  focus 


Moment    on    the    ^  Safe    in    Hell"    Set! 


Photo  by  Stagg 


"^OROTHY  and  leading  man  Donald  Cook  are 
A-/ ready,  and  Director  William  Wellman,  with  his 
foot  on  the  rubber-tired  moving  camera  "dolly," 
says  go  J  And  here  you  see  the  actual  shooting  of  a 
dramatic  scene — actors,  crew  and  mechanical  effects 


51 


Wand 


ering 


W 


T 


Since  becoming  a  cinema  celebrity,  Freddie  March  has 
revised  Horace  Greeley's  advice  to  read:  "Go  west, 
young  man,  go  east,  go  west,  go  east,  go  west !"  Con- 
fusing?   Well,  rather.    It's  been  that  way  for  him — 


ith    L  he 


In  keeping  up  with  a 
cross-country  movie 
career,  they've  found 
that  Home  is  just  a 
place  to  leave  behind 

By  James  M.    Kahn 


WITH  the  Fredric  Marches  (she  is  Florence 
Eldridge)  it's  a  case  of  "Home,  Sweet 
Home- If  Any!" 
Or,  as  Groucho  Marx  sang  in  "Animal 
Crackers":  "Hello—  I  must  be  going!" 

For  the  forward  march  of  Fredric  March's  itinerant 
career  has  kept  them  leaping  from  Coast  to  Coast, 
from  apartment  to  apartment  and  from  house  to  house 
in  a  bewildered  scramble  to  keep  abreast  of  it. 

Home  life,  they  are  coming  to  believe,  is  a  delusion 
and  a  snare.  They  are  a  little  breathless  and  consider- 
ably lease-shy,  and  instead  of  hanging  the  embroidered 
"  God  Bless  Our  Home"  on  the  parlor  wall,  have  re- 
vised it  to  read:  "Reach  for  a  Pullman  instead  of  a 
door-knob." 

It  was  just  a  few  weeks  ago  that  they  were  in  their 
Great  Neck,  Long  Island,  home.  But  they  weren't 
lounging  on  that  spacious,  glassed-in  veranda,  drink- 
ing deep  the  warm,  fragrant  joys  of  a  summer  on  Long 
Island,  nor  content  in  the  knowledge  that  when 
winter  came  they'd  still  be  there.  No.  They  were 
huddled  in  each  other's  arms,  crying:  "Pul-leeze,  pul- 
leeze,  we've  oaky  just  moved  in  here,"  and  wondering 
if  Paramount  was  really  going  through  with  its  plans 
to  send  Fred  back  to  Hollywood. 

Paramount  did,  and  today  he's  back  on  the  Coast — 
back  on  the  Coast  again — making  "Dr.  JekyllandMr. 
Hyde." 

HAVING  labored  at  Paramount's  Long  Island 
studios  for  a  year,  Fred  had  worked  up  a  timorous 
hope  that  their  stay  in  the  East  was  going  to  last. 
It  didn't.     They  were  on  the  leap  again! 

It's  been  that  way  since  Fred  first  stepped  into 
pictures.  When  he  was  signed  he  was  playing  on  the 
stage  in  Los  Angeles.  Playing,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  in 
"The  Royal  Family,"  the  picture  version  of  which 
boosted  him  into  the  front  ranks  of  talkie  prominence. 
Back  in  New  York  they  had  a  five-year  lease  on  an 
apartment. 

Miss  Eldridge  had  signed  for  five  years  because, 
with  a  talent  for  home-making  and  decoration,  she 
likes  to  knock  down  walls,  arch  doorways,  build  book- 
cases and  commit  other  forms  of  architectural  anarchy. 
The  landlord  said  she  couldn't  do  it  on  anything  under 
a  five-year  lease,  so  it  was  signed  and  the  apartment 
turned  into  a  home. 

Now  they  had  to  get  rid  of  it,  for  Paramount's  plans 
were  for  Fred  to  stay  on  the  Coast.  They  got  out  of 
it,  after  an  involved  procedure,  and  settled  down  in 
Hollywood.  They  leased  a  house  for  two  years.  It 
was  a  nice  house,  so  nice  that  they  didn't  bother  to 
knock  down  any  walls. 

But  Fred,  who  likes  to  play  tennis — and  plays  it 
well — had  a  tennis  court  built  beside  it.    At  the  same 


IVl  arches 


time  they  decided  to  build  a  beach  house  at  Laguna 
Beach.  They  stayed  just  long  enough  to  see  the  tennis 
court  finished  and  play  a  few  sets  on  it.  The  beach 
house  was  still  being  built  when  Fred  received  orders  to 
march  on  to  the  Paramount  Eastern  studios  in  Long 
Island. 

In  New  York  they  went  to  live  at  the  Sherry-Nether- 
land  Hotel  where,  with  a  sigh  of  relief,  they  could  live 
on  a  month  to  month  basis.  They  could  leap  for  a  Pull- 
man at  a  moment's  notice. 

But  the  home  instinct  is  strong  in  the  Marches.  Also 
the  urge  to  knock  down  walls  and  build  tennis  courts. 
They  like  to  putter  around  and  there's  no  puttering 
around  with  the  gilded  elegance  of  the  Sherry-Nether- 
land. 

SPRING  came  along,  too.  That  didn't  help  any, 
either.  In  addition,  Paramount  seemed  to  have  an 
extended  program  mapped  out  at  Astoria  for  Fred.  It 
looked  as  though  his  work  in  the  East  would  take  on 
some  aspects  of  permanence.  So,  with  prospects  of  a 
long  stay  in  the  East,  a  wall-knocking  urge  and  the  sniff 
of  spring  in  their  nostrils,  they  made  the  plunge  and 
pulled  up  with  a  home  in  Great  Neck. 

It  was  there  I  found  them.  As  I  arrived  the  phone 
rang  and  Fred  answered  it.  It  was  a  friend.  A  friend 
with  a  sense  of  humor.  He  just  called  up  to  tell  Fred, 
in  a  voice  hysterical  with  glee,  that  he  heard  Para- 
mount was  going  to  send  him  back  to  the  Coast.  Hehe- 
hehehehe.    Well,  good-bye. 

And  so,  with  that  bit  of  news  to  start  us  off,  I  heard 
all  about  the  lease-leaping  of  the  Fredric  Marches. 

If  it  had  merely  been  a  case  of  going  back  to  Holly- 
wood, there  wouldn't  have  been  this  cry  of  plaintive 
futility  seeping  out  through  the  shrubbery  of  the  Long 
Island  home  of  the  Marches.  They  would  have  been 
glad  to  go  back  to  swim  and  play  tennis  and  ride  and 
see  old  friends  again — and  look  at  the  beach  house  they 
built  but  never  got  a  chance  to  live  in. 

But  it  meant  more  than  that.  It  meant  another 
pulling  up  of  the  tender  young  roots  of  a  home  Fred 
and  Florence  have  tried  to  plant  time  and  again. 

A  home  means  a  lot  to  them.  They  like  to  stay  in  it, 
and  have  their  friends  in  it,  too.  They  live  modestly 
and  simply.  So  far,  Hollywood  hasn't  done  things  to 
them.    If  they  can  help  it,  it  won't. 

To  find  a  Hollywoodite  without  something  wrong 
with  him  sets  one  to  investigating.  I  tried  to  find  out 
what  was  wrong  with  Fred  March. 

"I'm  normal!"  he  confessed. 

AND  he  was  right.  He  is  normal.  He's  an  actor  who 
rejoices  in  being  an  actor.  Now  that  he's  a  movie 
actor  and  making  more  money  than  he  ever  could  have 
made  on  the  stage,  he  still  wants  to  be  an  actor. 

He  hasn't  worked  up  an  English  country  squire  com- 
plex, with  a  yen  for  Irish  setters,  horses,  a  wooded 
estate  named  Breeming  Downs-in-Woode,  and  a  yacht. 
If  he  did,  the  Little  Woman  would  knock  it  right  out  of 
him.    And,  what's  more,  he'd  pay  attention  to  her. 

For,  to  take  the  words  out  of  Harry  Leon  Wilson's 
mouth,  she's  his  best  pal  and  severest  critic.  Only  that's 
not  kidding.  He  tries  out  all  his  roles  on  her,  because  as 
an  actress  whom  he  played  with  for  years  before 
they  were  married,  he  formed  a  deep  respect  for  her 
talents  and  judgment. 

The  story  they  tell  about  them  when  he  was  making 
"  The  Royal  Family,"  has  become  a  classic  around  New 
York.  He  carried  the  role  home  from  the  studio  and 
continued  to  act  it  around  the  house.  Every  time 
Florence  looked  up  [  please  turn  to  page  124  ] 


While  Florence  Eldridge,  the  Little  Woman,  is  coming 
to  believe  that  a  quiet  evening  at  home  consists  in  be- 
ing curled  up  in  a  Pullman  berth  with  just  a  good  time- 
table to  study  for  the  return  trip 


53 


Thi  s  really 
happened  in 
a  Hollywood 
studio  to  a  girl 
who  stood  in 
the 


it  with 
heart — 


READ 


AS  she  stood  outside  the  director's  office — just  one  of  a 
couple  of  hundred  other  folk  sent  on  approval  from 
Central  Casting — Molly  realized  that  she  was  hungry, 
that  she  hadn't  eaten  for  the  past  two  days.  Realized 
a  bitter  pang  that  traveled  from  her  tummy  to  her 
and  back  again  to  her  tummy!  She  almost  laughed  at 
the  idea.  Why,  only  a  matter  of  a  month  ago — well,  two 
months  ago — she  had  been  buying  butterscotch  pecan  sundaes, 
back  in  New  York.  And  telling  herself  that  she  must  eat  less — 
or  she'd  grow  plump. 

The  thought  of  being  plump,  now — Molly  looked  down  at  the 
thinness  of  her  hands,  clasped  loosely  in  front  of  her — had  a 
sense  of  hysteria  about  it.  The  thought  of  a  butterscotch 
pecan  sundae  brought  hot  tears  to  her  eyes. 

She  had  given  up  her  well-paid  secretarial  job  so  blithely, 
had  Molly.  Because  the  whole  movie  racket  had  seemed  so 
easy — to  read  about.  Because  so  many  people  had  told  her 
that  she  had  a  figure  like  Joan  Crawford  and  eyes  like  Gloria 
Swanson.  She  had  invested  the  savings  of  five  whole  years  in 
railroad  tickets  and  pretty  frocks. 

She  had — with  a  wave  of  one  slender  hand  (it  had  been 
slender  then,  not  thin!) — dismissed  the  three-fold  offer  of  a 
slim  platinum  and  diamond  band,  a  three-room  apartment  on 
lower  Fifth  Avenue,  and  security.    To  say  nothing  of  love. 

"But  I  don't  want  marriage,"  she  had  said  to  Preston  Crowell, 
the  young  man  who  had  made  the  offer,  "I  want- a  career!" 

Rl. 


And  then,  suddenly, 
she  was  crying,  and  the 
star  was  saying,  "My 
God,  she  really  acts 
as  if  she  is  starving!" 


"Don't  you  care  about  me?"  Preston  Crowell  had  asked.  He 
was  a  modern  young  man  with  sleek  hair  and  a  walking  stick 
and  a  smart  roadster  (very  nearly  paid  for,  too) — but  despite 
all  that,  his  voice  was  just  a  shade  unsteady. 

"Don't  you  like  me — a  little  bit?"  he  had  implored. 

Molly  had  been  near  to  softening  when  she  heard  the  quaver 
in  that  usually  steady,  sophisticated  young  voice.  For  she  did 
like  Preston — she  more  than  liked  him. 

She  had  known  many  a  joyous  hour  in  the  roadster — speed- 
ing through  Westchester,  parked  in  the  twilight  of  Riverside 
Drive.  She  had  thrilled  to  the  tiled  kitchenette  of  the  little 
apartment.  She  had  also  thrilled  to  certain  not  exactly  stolen 
kisses.    But  for  all  her  momentary  softness,  she  did  not  relent. 


By 
m  argaret 

E. 

Sangster 


ILLUSTRATED      BY 

R.   F.   JAMES 


"I  want,"  she  told  the  young  man,  "a  career.  I  want  to 
go  into  the  movies.  I  photograph  beautifully — really  I  do, 
Pres!  My  voice — according  to  all  I've  read  about  voices — 
is  the  right  sort  of  voice  for  the  mike.  I  don't  want  to  settle 
down  before  I've  had  a  chance.  At  least — "  her  tone  was 
suddenly  gentle,  "not  yet." 

It  was  Preston  Crowell's  cue  to  be  grateful  then,  and  tact- 
ful. Had  he  shown  a  proper  feeling  for  that  hesitant  "not  yet," 
the  three-room  apartment  might  have  been  leased  at  once.  But 
after  the  manner  of  young  men,  he  turned  suddenly  sullen. 

"It  isn't  as  easy  as  you  seem  to  think,"  he  said  almost 
harshly — the  quaver  had  quite  gone  from  his  tone,  "this  break- 
ing into  the  movies.     Lots  of  prettier  girls  than  you,  Molly — 


with  better  voices,  too — are  wearing  out  their 
shoes,  and  the  sidewalks  of  J  lolly  wood,  looking 
for  work.  Maybe  you'll  be  sorry — you'll  re- 
gret— that  you — " 

But  Molly  interrupted.    She  was  just  in  the 
mood,  then,  for  argument. 

"If  you  think,"  she  said  hotly,  "that  I'll 
ever  regret  not  marrying  you — " 

It  was  Preston  who  interrupted,  this  time. 

"I  wasn't  going  to  say  that,"  he  told  her, 

"at  all!     I  wasn't  going  to  bring  myself,  or 

marriage,  into  it!    But  if  you  want  to  be  mean 

— well,  I  bet  you'll  think  that  this  old  town, 

and  everything  in  it,  looks  pretty  good  a  few 

months  from  now.    When  you  come  back  to  it." 

"But  I  won't  come  back,"  Molly  told  him  fiercely.  "How  do 

you  get  that  way?    Not  until  I've  made  good.    See!    Not  until 

I've   made   good!" 

Preston  Crowell  brushed  his  hand  back,  nervously,  across  his 

sleek  hair.     And  then  all  at  once  his  reserves  had  crumbled. 

"Oh,  honey,"  he  begged.     "Oh,  Molly  dear.     If  you  change 

your  mind — and  you  probably  will,  you  know — just  wire  me. 

And  I'll  come  all  the  way  out — " 

But  again  he  was  unfortunate  in  the  matter  of  phrasing  his 
thoughts.    He  shouldn't  have  said,  "you  probably  will."    For — 
"I  won't  change  my  mind!"  Molly  told  him.    "And  I  won't 
wire — not  ever!" 

But  just  two  months  later,  as  she  stood  outside  the  director's 
office,  rubbing  the  scuffed  toe  of  one  patent  leather  slipper 
against  the  back  of  her  darned  stocking,  Molly  was  thinking 
of  New  York.  And  of  the  tiled  kitchenette,  and  the  little  road- 
ster, and  Preston,  and — everything.  And  it  wasn't  easy  not 
to  cry! 

And,  oh  God — how  hungry  she  was! 


SHE  had  gone  out  so  blithely  from  New  York,  with  her  smart 
summery  dresses  packed  in  two  new  suitcases,  and  her 
ticket  paid  for,  and  three  hundred  dollars  left  over.  She  had 
registered  at  one  of  the  best  hotels,  never  counting  the  cost  of 
best  hotels!  For,  she  told  herself,  three  hundred  dollars  would 
certainly  be  ample  until  she  got  a  job  in  pictures. 

Of  course,  Molly  didn't  expect  a  starring  part  at  first,  not 
quite  that.  Although  she'd  fed  her  soul  on  a  million  Cinderella- 
like  experiences  in  half  a  million  magazine  articles!  But  she 
did  expect  something  that  would  supply  bread  and  butter  and 
jam  and  new  silk  stockings — supply  them  almost  immediately. 

It  was  with  a  sense  of  acute  surprise  that  she  reviewed  her 
resources  at  the  end  of  her  first  week  in  Hollywood,  and  realized 
that  more  than  a  third  of  her  money  was  gone  and,  as  yet,  she 
hadn't  even  seen  the  inside  of  a  movie  lot. 

Even  at  the  end  of  the  second  week  she  was  already  scanning 
her  features  almost  forlornly,  in  the  mirror.  Why,  she  didn't 
even  look  as  pretty  in  Hollywood  as  she  had  in  New  York — 
Hollywood  was  crowded  with  prettier  girls  than  she!  The 
clerks  in  the  shops  were  beautiful,  the  waitresses  in  the  tea 
rooms  were  radiant. 

"But  after  all,"  Molly  told  herself,  "I've  got  a  good  voice, 
if  I  do  say  it."  And  so  she  took  a  sharp  tug  at  her  mental 
boot  straps  and  moved  from  the  good  hotel  which  had  by  this 
time  absorbed  two-thirds  of  her  capital,  to  a  cheap  boarding 
house. 

But  cheap  though  it  was,  the' boarding  house  had  eaten 
acidly  into  her  remaining  hundred  dollars.  So  that  at  the  end 
of  a  month  Molly,  a  trifle  wild-eyed,  was  looking  for  steno- 
graphic work,  the  sort  that  she  had  stopped  doing  in  New  York 
— stopped  doing  several  years  ago,  before  she  assumed  the 
dignity  and  title  of  a  secretary.  It  surprised  her  acutely  that 
she  couldn't  even  get  a  chance  to  show  her  skill  on  a  typewriter. 
Surprised  her,  that  is,  until  the  boarding  house  keeper  gave  her 
the  proper  slant  on  Hollywood's  economic  situation. 

"You'll  not  get  a  job  out  here,  dearie,"  the  boarding  house 
keeper  said,  not  ungently.  "The  place  is  over-run  with  ste- 
nographers who  came  out  to  act — and  who  need  jobs!  Take 
my  advice,  girlie" — the  woman  was  a  kindly  soul — "and  go 
home  and  marry  some  nice  young  fellow  and  settle  down." 

At  that  moment  Molly  found  herself  almost  wishing  that  she 
could  go  home  and  marry  some  nice  fellow.  But  her  denial  of 
Preston  had  been  far  too  definite  to  admit  of  failure — at 
least  yet. 

"Oh."  she  told  the  boarding  house  keeper,  and  though  her 
tone  was  not  exactly  airy,  it  at  least  had  a  touch  of  confidence, 
"oh,  something  will  turn  up  yet,  I'm  sure." 

55 


But  nothing  turned  up — nothing.  And  at  the  end  of  six 
weeks — well,  tramping  from  office  to  office  can  make  even  the 
smartest  new  clothes  and  the  most  trick  little  shoeslook  shabby! 

The  seventh  week  found  Molly  haunting  employment 
agencies,  standing  like  a  shadow  among  a  couple  of  hundred 
other  shadows  in  front  of  forbidding  closed  doors.  They  were 
always  closed  .  .  . 

The  eighth  week — and  eight  weeks,  as  any  mathematician 
figures  it,  equal  almost  two  months — brought  her  to  actual 
hunger!  Hunger — with  her  last  pair  of  silk  stockings  in  a 
regrettable  state,  and  her  last  week's  board  bill  unpaid,  and  the 
freshest  of  her  frocks  sold  to  a  second-hand  dealer. 

And  then  on  the  last  day  of  the  second  month  had  come  a 
magic  summons.  Central  Casting  had  given  her  a  sudden  call. 
She  was  to  report  at  a  studio.  If  she  suited  it  might  mean  any- 
thing.    Even — a  job. 

"If  I  could  only  get  one  day's  work,"  she  told  herself  fiercely, 
as  she  waited  in  front  of  the  director's  office,  "it  would  help. 
I  could  pay  some  rent,  on  account,  and  perhaps  have  a  ham- 
burger sandwich,  too,  on  the  way  home." 

The  thought  of  a  hamburger  sandwich,  sizzling,  smelling 
not  too  faintly  of  onions,  made  her  feel  acutely  giddy. 

THERE  was  a  bustle  about  the  place  on  this  day.  But  per- 
haps, for  all  Molly  knew,  there  was  always  this  sense  of 
nervousness  in  a  studio.  It  spread  through  the  crowd  as  bustle 
and  nervousness  always  do.  Molly  wasn't  the  only  one  on 
edge — for  the  girl  standing  next  to  her  gave  a  sudden  sharp 
little  sigh. 

"You  and  me,"  she  said  in  an  aside,  over  her  shoulder, 
"haven't  got  much  chance,  kid,  I'm  afraid.  There  are  too 
many  near-society  girls  coming  in  here,  trailing  new  chiffon 
dresses.  You  and  me — well,  I'm  down  on  my  luck.  I  haven't 
had  a  day's  work  since  St.  Peter  was  a  little  baby.  And  you 
don't  look  so  prosperous  either." 

"No,  I'm  not  so  prosperous,"  answered  Molly  wearily. 

"Been  here  long?"  asked  the  other  girl — not  that  she  cared 
much,  just  for  something  to  say. 

"Oh,  for  two  months,"  said  Molly,  still  wearily. 


"Say,"  the  other  girl  was  suddenly  confidential,  "I've  been 
here  two  years,  and  it  gets  harder  all  the  time;  I  mean  more 
competition  and  everything.  You're  new  at  it  still — you  can 
break  away.  Why  don't  you  beat  it  back  to  the  place  you  came 
from?" 

It  was  Molly  who  sighed  now.  "It's  a  long  walk  to  New 
York,"  she  said. 

The  other  girl  persisted.  "Haven't  you  some  friend  who'll 
stake  you  to  a  train  ride?"  she  asked  Molly. 

But  at  the  question  Molly's  head  snapped  up  sharply  and 
her  chin  became  all  at  once  firm  again.  Nearly  firm!  She  was 
remembering  what  Preston  had  said  about  "when  you  come 
back." 

"No,"  said  Molly,  "I  haven't."    And  that  was  that. 

THE  crowd  in  front  of  the  director's  office  was  growing.  It 
was  in  the  air  that  there  had  been  a  large  order  for  extras,  but 
nobody  seemed  to  know  just  what  kind  of  a  picture  was  in 
process.  The  crowd  contained  all  sorts  of  people,  too.  There 
were  the  aforementioned  near-society  girls,  trailing  their 
chiffons  .  .  . 

There  was  a  stout,  matronly  woman  whose  round  cheeks 
looked  placid,  and  whose  eyes  looked  scared.  There  was 
a  tall,  shiny  black  man,  with  a  little  pickaninny  clutching  at 
either  hand.  There  was  a  fussy,  be-ribboned  mother,  with  a 
fussy,  be-ribboned  child  in  tow  .  .  . 

There  were  old  men,  bearded  and  bent  and  hopeless.  There 
were  young  men,  arrogant  and  bold-eyed  and  a  little  worn  at 
the  elbows. 

And  then  suddenly  a  door  opened  somewhere  and  a  girl 
came  out  with  a  slip  of  paper  in  her  hand.  On  the  paper  were 
names,  neatly  typed.  Molly,  with  her  eyes,  followed  the 
progress  of  the  girl — evidently  a  secretary — who  consulted  the 
list  and  made  checks  against  the  names.  And,  as  she  watched, 
all  about  her,  through  the  line  of  extras,  a  whisper  grew  and 
swelled  and  traveled. 

"They're  casting  for  that  New  York  picture,"  ran  the 
whisper.  "They  want  fifty  extras  today.  My  God — fifty! 
It's  New  York  stuff.     It's —  [please  turn  to  page    116] 


He     Ages     Ihirty-rive     Years     in     Ihree     Hou 


r  s 


It  takes  this  man  just  three  hours  to  add  thirty-five 
years  to  his  life!  But  it  takes  three  hours  every  day. 
The  natty  young  fellow  in  gray  hat  is  named  Phillips 
Lord,  but  you  know  him  over  the  radio  as  Seth  Parser. 
He  and  his  troupe  are  making  "Way  Back  Home" 
for  Radio  Pictures,  and  the  greatest   make-up   job 


since  "Cimarron"  is  done  on  Lord  by  Ern  Westmore, 
who  was  responsible  for  aging  Richard  Dix  and  Irene 
Dunne  in  that  picture  of  Oklahoma  frontier  days,  and 
Mae  Marsh  in  "Over  the  Hill."  Westmore  works  on 
the  human  face  in  much  the  same  way  an  artist  paints 
a  canvas.    They  make  'em  young  or  old  in  Hollywood 


KK 


mA 


u 


met 


on  the 
WESTERN 
FRONT" 


W 


INS 


The  Photoplay  Magazine  Gold  Medal 
As  the  Best  Picture  of  the  Year  1930 


Carl  Laemmle, 

Sr. — he  bought 

the  story 


'The  Covered 


THE  motion  picture 
audience  of  the  world 
has  awarded  Photo- 
play Magazine's 
famous  Gold  Medal  for  the 
best  picture  released  in  1930  to 
Universal  Pictures  for  "All 
Quiet  on  the  Western  Front." 

This  is  the  eleventh  annual 
award  of  this  honor  which  has 
from  the  beginning  been  recog- 
nized as  the  highest  distinction 
that  can  be  earned  by  a  motion 
picture.  It  is  the 
second  talking  picture 
to  win  the  medal. 

The  previous  win- 
ners were — "  Humor- 
esque,"  1920;  "Tol'- 
able  David,"  1921; 
"Robin  Hood,"  1922; 
Wagon,"  1923;  "Abraham  Lincoln," 
1924;  "The  Big  Parade,"  1925;  "Beau 
Geste,"  1926;  "7th  Heaven,"  1927; 
"Four  Sons,"   1928,  and  "Disraeli," 
1929. 

"All  Quiet"  is,  without  doubt,  one  of 
the  greatest  sermons  of  peace  ever 
preached.  And  that  the 
pulpit  for  this  sermon 
should  have  been  a  silver 
screen  is  significant  in- 
deed. 

WHAT  went  into  the 
making  of  the  film 
is  a  great  story  in  itself. 
Carl  Laemmle,  Sr.,  had 
but  recently  turned  over 
his  Universal  Film  Cor- 
poration to  a  smiling  lad 
of  twenty-one — his  son 
Carl  Laemmle,  Jr. 

Junior  had  read  Erich 
Remarque's  amazing 
book,  "All  Quiet  on  the 
Western  Front."  Junior 
wanted  to  make  a  picture 
of  it.  Hollywood 
laughed. 

Why,  you  couldn't  make  a  picture  out  of 
a  book  like  that!  But  Junior  thought  you 
:ould. 

He  cabled  his  father,  who  was  on  his  way 
to  Germany,  asking  him  to  buy  the  book. 
Carl,  Sr.,  shook  his  head,  but  was  eventually 
persuaded  to  sink  nearly  a  million  and  a  half 
dollars  into  the  film.  The  boy,  Carl  Laemmle, 
Jr.,  had  a  vision.  He  saw  it  fulfilled  and 
glorified. 

Young  Laemmle  selected  Lewis  Milestone  to 
direct  "All  Quiet."  Milestone — himself  a 
young  man — had  been  known  as  a  comedy- 
drama  director.     This  was  the  first  deadly 


The  Nobel 
prize  of  film- 
dom  —  Photo- 
play's  Gold 
Medal  which 
goes  this  year 
to  Universal 


Lewis  Milestone 
— he  directed  it 


serious  story  he  had  attempted. 
When  "All  Quiet"  was  released 
he  was  recognized  as  a  direc- 
torial genius.  In  the  1930-31 
vote  of  motion  picture  critics, 
polled  by  the  Film  Daily,  a 
trade  publication,  he  was  rated 
as  the  best  director.  Also  this 
year  he  was  singled  out  by  the 
Academy  of  Motion  Picture 
Arts  and  Sciences  as  the  man 
who  had  done  the  most  able 
directing  in  1930. 

"All  Quiet"  was  not 
a  star  picture — yet  it 
introduced  a  new  and 
vivid  star  to  the 
screen — Lewis  Ayres. 
Again  Laemmle,  Jr., 
showed  courage  in 
choosing  an  almost  untried  actor  for 
the  difficult  role  of  the  boy  Paul. 
Ayres  had  had  but  slight  film  experi- 
ence.   Immediately  upon  the  release 
of  "All  Quiet"  he  became  a  sensation. 
But  it  is  not  his  performance  alone  that 
you  recall — it  is  the  cast  as  a  whole  that 
remains  a  fierce  and  beautiful  momorv. 


Erich  Re- 
marque —  he 
wrote  the  book 


o: 


Carl   Laemmle,   Jr.  —  he 
produced  it  at  the  age  of  21 


NE  of  that  troupe 
Louis  Wolheim,  the 
lovable,  humorous  A"<7/<  - 
zinsky,  died  a  few  months 
ago.  But  his  work  in 
this  great  picture  will 
never  be  forgotten.  The 
younger  men  who  played 
with  Ayres  —  Russell 
Gleason,  William  Bake- 
well,  Scott  Kolk,  Walter 
Browne  Rogers,  Ben 
Alexander,  Owen  Davis, 
Jr. — began  the  picture  as 
boys  but,  realizing  the 
seriousness  of  their  work, 
finished  it  as  men. 

John  Wray  and   Slim 
Summerville  deserve  at- 
tention, as  does  Ray- 
mond   Griffith    for    a 
The  others  were  all  ex- 
cellent and  added  to  the  force  of  the  picture. 
Maxwell  Anderson  and  George  Abbott  must 
be  given  great  credit. 

These  two  famous  playwrights  wrote  treat- 
ment and  dialogue. 

In  every  way  "All  Quiet  on  the  Western 
Front"  was  a  perfect  film. 

The  number  of  votes  received  this  year  has 
been  tremendous.  A  word  of  explanation 
must  be  said  about  why  the  1930  award  is  not 
made  until  December,  1931.  This  is  so  the 
people  throughout  the  world  may  ha  ve  a  chance 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  113  ] 

B7 


Lew  Ayres  —  he 
won  fame  in  it 


magnificent  "bit." 


/ 


imm 


y 


s 


y  1  via 


The  nose  that  has  launched  a 
thousand  laughs 


She  collects  first  editions  and 
hates  exercise 


ON  February  10,  1893,  Mrs.  Barthelmo  Durante  be- 
came, at  the  Durante  flat  at  90  Catherine  Street,  New 
York,  the  mother  of  a  7-pound,  9-ounce  baby  boy.J 
Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  that  weight,  they  saw,  was 
the  baby's  nose.  He  still  has  it,  and  that's  why  they  call  him 
"Schnozzle"  instead  of  his  given  name  of  James,  or  Jimmy. 

Early  in  life,  Jimmy  realized,  like  Cyrano  dc  Bergerac  before 
him,  that  nobody'd  ever  take  him  seriously  with  a  nose  like 
that.  So  he  became  one  of  the  greatest  comedians  there  is. 
Papa  Durante  wanted  Jimmy  to  follow  in  the  barbering  trade, 
and  had  him  lather  customers'  faces.  But  they  laughed  so 
hard  at  Jimmy's  beak  that  papa  cut  them  here  and  there,  so 
Jimmy  went  out  into  the  world.  He  still  hates  to  shave.  And 
now  he  makes  as  much  in  one  week  as  seventeen  barbers  in  a 
row  of  months. 

He  loves  parties.  Let  him  loose  in  one,  and  he  steals  the 
show. 

Cornflakes  with  milk  is  his  favorite  dish!  Give  him  a  box  of 
flakes,  a  bottle  of  milk,  and  he's  happy.  He  even  entertains, 
now  and  then,  at  cornflake  dinners. 

He's  as  nervous  as  a  cat;  does  everything  jerkily  and  quickly. 
Walks  that  way  and  with  a  slight  stoop  to  his  shoulders. 
Doesn't  care  what  he  wears.  When  he  gets  up  he  puts  on  the 
first  things  he  lays  his  hands  on,  regardless  of  color  combina- 
tions or  appearance.    Smokes  cigars  constantly. 

When  he  was  ten,  his  mother  started  him  on  piano  lessons  at  a 
dollar  apiece.  Jimmy  learned  that  half  the  time  he  could  spend 
the  dollar  on  ice  cream  and  things  and  make  up  the  lesson  by 
practicing  at  home.  He  did,  and  can  play  anything  from 
opera  to  jazz  on  the  keys.  Once,  in  his  early  days,  he  was 
accompanist  to  a  singing  waiter  named  Eddie  Cantor,  in  a 
Coney  Island  cafe. 

He  never  sleeps  more  than  five  hours  a  night  and  is  an  early 
riser. 

His  wife  is  Jean  Olsen.  He  met  her  when  he  was  "Ragtime 
Jimmy"  at  Coney  Island.  Her  first  remark  to  him  was, 
"You're  the  worst  piano  player  I  ever  heard."  That  started  a 
romance  that's  still  hot  fourteen  years  later. 


DID  you  happen  to  see  a  picture  called  "Thru  Different 
Eyes"?  Can  you  remember  a  furtive,  not  too  attractive 
girl  who  gave  a  piercing  scream  in  the  courtroom? 
You  can  recall  her  vaguely,  yes?  But  she  left  no  im- 
pression on  you?  If  you  haven't  already  heard,  what  I'm 
about  to  tell  you  will  be  a  shock.    Maybe  you'd  better  sit  down. 

That  little  nonentity  in  "Thru  Different  Eyes,"  that  stage 
actress  who  came  to  Hollywood  and  failed — well,  that  was 
Sylvia  Sidney!  The  Sylvia  Sidney  who,  later,  played  a  melan- 
choly tune  on  your  heart  strings  in  "An  American  Tragedy" 
and  "Street  Scene."  The  girl  with  the  crinkly  eyes  and  the 
sweet,  fresh  mouth.  The  young  woman  who  is,  at  the  moment, 
the  outstanding  sensational  success  of  Hollywood! 

Your  guess  as  to  the  reason  why  she  failed  first  and,  a  few 
months  later,  became  the  talk  of  the  town  is  as  good  as  mine 
or  Mahatma  Gandhi's.  Good  parts,  I  suppose.  Careful 
direction.  Any  number  of  things.  The  fact  remains  that, 
despite  Paramount's  effort  to  make  her  a  second  Clara  Bow, 
Sylvia  stands  on  her  own  two  feet  and  is  now  considered  their 
second  biggest  box-office  draw.     Marlene  Dietrich  is  first. 

Her  eyes  are  gray-green  and  change  their  color,  but  one  of 
them  has  a  brown  birthmark  that  doesn't  change. 

When  she  was  ten  (the  daughter  of  a  Bronx  dentist  and  a 
dress  designer  at  Wanamaker's,  living  in  Greenwich  Village) 
something  happened  to  her.  She  could  not  talk  to  anybody. 
If  someone  spoke  to  her  tears  would  pour  down  her  cheeks. 

PUZZLED  by  all  this,  her  parents  insisted  that  she  take 
dancing  and  elocution  lessons — both  of  which  she  most 
cordially  loathed.  She  gave  up  the  dancing  but  the  elocution 
teacher  persisted.  Apparently  he  saw  in  her  what  critics 
were  later  to  discover  when,  at  fifteen,  she  did  the  leading 
role  in  the  Theater  Guild  School  play. 

She  collects  first  editions  but  hates  all  form  of  physical 
exercise.     She  can't  stand  to  have  anyone  manicure  her  nails. 

So  near-sighted  she  cannot  see  a  movie  without  her  glasses, 
six  rows  back.  An  exceptionally  bad  memory,  but  she's  as 
shrewd  a  little  business  woman  as  Hollvwood  has  known. 


_L/in 


Clcl         _/i_  n 


d 


J 


ohn 


Her  hobby  is  eating  and  she 
can  bark  like  a  seal 


THIS  "debutante"  Fox  star  is  going  to  cause  a  mutiny 
among  Hollywood  women.    Her  hobby  is  eating. 
When  they  see  her,  5  feet,  4^  inches,  maintaining  an 
unvarying  weight  of  108  pounds  on  two  double  scoop 
chocolate  ice  cream  sundaes  each  noon,  two  chocolate  bars  at 
frequent  intervals  during  working  hours,  and  a  repeat  on  the 
sundaes  for  dinner,  then  pink  skins  turn  a  jealous  green. 

But  Linda  Watkins  has  a  swell  sense  of  humor.  Her  wit 
flashes  as  brightly  and  unexpectedly  as  a  divorcee's  engage- 
ment ring.    And,  unusual  attribute,  she  can  laugh  at  herself. 

Her  laugh  is  famous.  It  barks  like  a  seal.  The  comparison 
is  accurate.  So  accurate  that  director  Al  Santell  threw  her  a 
fish  every  time  she  laughed  while  making  her  first  picture, 
"Sob  Sister."  Nor  did  the  broad  hint  stop  her.  She  only 
barked  the  louder. 

Her  family  is  impeccable.  Her  uncles  include:  Lord 
Brougham  of  England;  Professor  Michelson,  father  of  the 
philosophy  of  light;  Major  Arthur  Radcliffe  Dugmore,  painter 
and  sculptor;  and  Williams  Watkins,  inventor  of  the  automatic 
fire  alarm.  You'd  know,  seeing  this  impressive  list,  that  she 
has  money.    She  has. 

She  went  to  private  schools.  Because  she  didn't  like  being 
a  lady  of  ease,  she  entered  the  Theater  Guild  School,  in  the 
same  class  with  Marguerite  Churchill  and  Sylvia  Sidney. 

Because  she  magnetizes  success,  Linda  appeared  immediately 
in  ("The  Devil  and  the  Cheese,"  was  featured  in  "The  Ivory 
Door,"  and  had  other  stage  successes  including  a  season  with 
Blanche  Yurka  in  high-brow  Ibsen.  She's  afraid  of  the  screen 
and  refused  point  blank  to  attend  a  public  preview  of  her  pic- 
ture but  saw  it  alone.  She  came  from  the  projection  room  looking 
as  though  she  had  been  to  a  wake.    "I'm  terrible,"  she  wailed. 

But  she  wasn't.  "Sob  Sister"  (Linda  plays  the  hard-boiled 
girl  reporter)  has  already  made  her  thousands  of  screen  friends. 

In  Hollywood  she's  invariably  the  life  of  the  party.  She 
usually  seats  herself  right  on  the  floor  and  proceeds  to  be  the 
focal  point  for  a  large  and  admiring  group. 

Her  favorite  drink  is  a  concoction  of  orange  ice  cream  and 
cream,  shaken  together. 


G 


He  can  play  the  piano  but  he 
won't  play  golf 


I  YE  John  Arledge  a  perfectly  strange  piano  and  in  no 
time  at  all  he'll  make  it  sit  up  and  say,  "Poppa!"  He 
can  do  more  with  pianos  than  Mr.  Heinz  can  with 
pickles. 

But  that's  not  strange.  You  see,  ever  since  Johnny's  child- 
hood— that  was  down  in  Crockett,  Texas,  where  Papa  Arledge 
was  a  wholesale  grocer — music  has  been  his  hobby.  It  still  is — 
and  his  only  one.  He  started  learning  to  play  the  piano,  and 
incidentally  the  pipe  organ,  when  he  began  saying  da-da,  and 
he's  never  stopped  practicing. 

That's  how  he  broke  into  pictures.  It  certainly  wasn't  his 
face.  Johnny  doesn't  think  much  of  that  face.  He  always 
figured  it'd  get  in  his  way  for  a  screen  career,  so  he  hoped  for  a 
chance  at  grand  opera.  Instead,  he  drifted  to  California  with 
a  stock  company,  and  in  the  course  of  events  found  they  needed 
a  nifty  piano  player  to  do  the  "Rhapsody  in  Blue"  number  in 
Universal's  "King  of  Jazz."  He  got  the  job.  And  from  that, 
his  step  into  his  current  contract  with  Fox  is  just  one  of  the 
usual  Hollywood  up-from-the-ranks  stories. 

John  (they  call  him  Johnny,  for  short)  Arledge  is  his  real 
name.  He  first  bawled  his  defiance  at  the  world  on  March 
12,  1907,  down  there  in  Crockett.  Dad  wanted  him  to  follow 
in  the  grocery  business  but  Johnny  wasn't  interested. 

HE'S  one  of  the  sweetest  dispositioned  lads  in  Hollywood. 
"A  sort  of  he-Janet  Gaynor,"  somebody  characterized 
him.  One  of  the  first  things  you  notice  about  him  is  his  swell 
Southern  drawl.    With  it  goes  a  Southern  charm  of  manner. 

He's  quite  ga-ga  over  Una  Merkel.  When  those  two  get 
together,  it  sounds  like  all  Dixie  let  loose. 

He  weighs  140  pounds,  and  although  he  doesn't  look  it  on  the 
screen,  he's  only  two  inches  under  six  feet.  His  hair  is  light 
blond  and  wavy,  and  his  eyes  are  that  interesting  gray-blue. 

He  hates  biographies  and  too  heavy  reading,  but  if  you 
give  him  Hemingway,  or  Maugham,  or  Walpole,  he'll  like  you 
for  life.  Yes,  he  smokes,  but  moderately.  He  likes  swimming 
and  tennis,  and  thinks  golf  is  blah. 

And  do  the  girls  like  him?    Do  they! 

59 


Rudy  Vallee  At  Home 


£*\CENE — The   home   of  Mr.   and 

V  Mrs.  Rudy  Vallee.  She  was 
i)  formerly  Miss  Fay  Webb  of  Santa 
Monica,  California.  He  was 
formerly  Mr.  Rudy  Vallee  of  Westbrook,  Maine,  and  The  Villa 
Vallee,  New  York.  Mrs.  Vallee  was  formerly  in  pictures.  Mr. 
Vallee  is  a  two-handed  saxophone  player  who  leads  Mr.  Will 
Osborne's  jazz  band,  and  also  sings  through  a  megaphone.  He  once 
made  a  talking  picture  called — called — oh,  dear  me  suzz,  what  was 
it  called?  The  Vallees  are  discovered  in  the  living  room  of  their 
New  York  apartment. 

Mr.  Vallee — Wall,  haow  do  you  like  our  settin'  room? 

Mrs.  Vallee — Living  room,  dear.  Don't  go  Maine  on  me! 
It'll  do  for  the  nonce,  when  we  get  a  good  reliable  nonce.  Is  it 
time  for  your  broadcast? 

Mr.  Vallee — Wall,  let's  see,  naow.  I'm  due  at  the  Bliff 
Theater  at  7:32.  At  8:01  I'm  at  the  Bloppo  Cafe,  and  then  at 
8:03  I  goes  on  de  air  ovah  de  Barbed- Wire  Hairnet  Hour  at 
Station  FOOF.  An'  den,  sugah,  ah  aims  to  come  on  home  an' 
croon  foh  mah  mammeh! 

Mrs.  Vallee — Just  what  act  are  you  supposed  to  be  doing 
now,  baby?    You're  getting  your  dialects  all  scrambled. 

Mr.  Vallee — Oh  Lor',  I  am  confused!  There  I  was  doing 
a  bit  from  the  Royal  American  Roughage  Hour  over  Station 
PIFF  on  odd  Tuesdays  in  Lent,  or  is  it  Advent?  This  business 
does  keep  one  dizzy! 

Mrs.  Vallee — Never  mind,  ducky!  We'll  soon  be  home  in 
California  where  all  you  have  to  do  is  make  nice  little  talkies. 
I'll  bet— (A  shot  is  heard  off)    OOOOH !    Rude,  what  was  that? 

Mr.  Vallee  (cautiously  peeping  past  the  chained  door) — 
Law!  Isn't  that  a  dad-burned  shame?  Another  of  those  silly 
gells  has  shot  herself,  right  here  on  the  door-mat!  We'll  simply 
have  to  order  Gus  not  to  let  any  more  into  the  building !  Dod- 
rat  me  if  that  doesn't  make  sixteen  today. 

Mrs.  Vallee — Sweet  sixteen  who'll  never  be  missed.  I 
think  it's  a  darned  shame!  Can't  a  bride  and  groom  have  a 
little  peace  without  some  fool  girl  firing  a  gun  into  herself  every 
ten  minutes?    I'm  going  to  write  to  the  Mayor! 

Mr.  Vallee — Won't  do  a  leetle  mite  o'  good,  dear.  They 
will  do  it,  though  I  make  a  speech  about  it  every  performance. 
Why,  the  shows  the  critters  have  busted  up,  with  their  screams 

60 


By    Leonard    Hall 


and  pistols!     Some  of   them   shoot 
blanks,  too.    It's  a  rotten  shame. 

Mrs.  Vallee — Well,  I  do  think 
that    (BANG!   another  shot).     Oh, 
gosh!    There  it  goes  again! 

Mr.  Vallee  (taking  another  peep) — Ding-bust  me  if  there 
isn't  another — and  what  a  whopper!  Two  hundred  and  fifty  if 
she  weighs  an  ounce! 

Mrs.  Vallee  (proudly) — The  bigger  they  are  the  harder 
they  fall  for  my  Rudy!  Do  call  Gus,  dear,  and  have  her  swept 
out.    Your  songs  all  set  for  tonight? 

Mr.  Vallee— Well,  I  thought  I'd  give  them  "Moonlight," 
then  follow  with  "Crooning  in  the  Moonlight,"  "Moonlight 
Crooning,"  "  Croon  to  the  Moon,"  "  The  Moon  Is  a  Croon,"  and 
then  wind  up  with  "Crooning." 

Mrs.  Vallee — That's  a  nice  selection,  dear. 

Mr.  Vallee — It  has  variety. 

Mrs.  Vallee — That's  what  they  like — variety.  (Looking 
out  the  front  window.)  You'll  have  to  take  the  freight  elevator 
again,  dear.  There's  a  terrible  mob  down  there.  Got  every- 
thing you  need,  dear? 

Mr.  Vallee — Everything,  dear. 

Mrs.  Vallee — Got  your  big  white  sweater  with  the  blue  Y, 
and  your  hair  grease,  and  that  new  gold  megaphone  with  the 
diamonds  and  emeralds,  dear? 

Mr.  Vallee — Got  it  all,  dear. 

Mrs.  Vallee — Got  a  big  kiss  for  me,  dear? 

Mr.  Vallee — Yes  sirree,  dear!     (He  administers  it.) 

Mr.  Vallee — Wall,  time  to  be  a'goin'.  I  can  just  make  it 
with  the  motorcycle  escort.      What  are  you  going  to  do,  dear? 

Mrs.  Vallee — I'm  going  to  sit  right  here  and  crochet  my 
big  boy  that  new  megaphone  cover  for  his  birthday! 

Mr.  Vallee — My  little  woman!    Well,  'bye,  dear! 

(He  tiptoes  into  the  hall.    A  shot  is  heard.) 

Mr.  Vallee  (from  the  freight  elevator) — She  missed  me, 
dear!    See  you  in  the  morning! 

Female  Voice  from  Hallway — Hussy! 

Mrs.  Vallee  (slamming  and  double-bolting  door) — Dope! 

The  Family  Radio — "Hi-Ho,  everybody!  This  is  Rudy 
Vallee,  broadcasting  from  the  stage  of  the  Bliff  Theater.  Our 
first  number  tonight  will  be  a  little  waltz  I  just  wrote  called — " 

Mrs.  Vallee  (succumbing  to  honest  tears) — Nuts! 


Hal  Phyfe 


COME  good  stories,  come  sour — the  interesting  and  capable  Mr.  Warner  Baxter,  ably 
supported  by  his  neat  mustache,  goes  right  on  knocking  out  the  box-office  naturals  for 
Fox.  Putting  on  his  chaps  and  best  Mexicano  leer,  he  makes  "The  Cisco  Kid."  Quickly 
changing  into  store  clothes,  he  stars  in  "Surrender" 


tars     broaden 
bhou  Ider     Lin 


es 


Y/OU  should  look  as  if  you 
'  have  the  shoulders  of  a 
football  hero  these  days. 
Bulky  at  the  top,  slenderly 
tapering  below — that's  the 
new  silhouette.  Look  at  the 
fur  massed  on  collar  and 
sleeves  of  Mae  Clarke's  red 
woolen  suit.  Smart  side  clos- 
ing. And  nice  black  acces- 
sories. Worn  in  "Franken- 
stein." 


I  ILYAN  TASHMAN  knows  just  the 
•—  right  one-eyed  angle  at  which  to  tilt  a 
sailor.  Simplicity  plus,  from  shallow  crown  to 
narrow  brim.  Just  feltand  hatter'splush  done 
with  a  manner.    From  "Girls  About  Town." 


WHY  such  big  sleeves7 
"The  better  to  achieve 
the  new  silhouette,  my  dears," 
says  Kay  Francis.  Huge  brown 
fur  sleeves  in  leg  o'  mutton 
effect  give  pencil-like  slender- 
ness  to  a  green  coat  she  wears 
in  "Girls  About  Town." 


We  a  r   b  a  t  i  n 

r  o  r    Leisure 

Hours 


MORMA  SHEARER'S  next  picture  is  that  gay, 
'  ^  sophisticated  comedy,  "Private  Lives.''  And 
here  is  one  of  the  many  delightful  lounging  cos- 
tumes she  wears  for  her  "private  life!"  It's  a 
tailored,  mannish  sort  of  robe  made  gay  by  gold 
dots  on  brown  satin.  Just  the  thing  you  should 
have — it's  smart  and  practical  both.  How  do  you 
like  that  modern  cabinet  in  the  background?  I 
think  it's  a  beauty. 


W/HEN  you  see  "Shanghai 
W  Express"  don't  miss  these 
pyjamas  of  Anna  May  Wong's. 
White  satin  contrasted  with 
brown — and  well  done,  I  think. 
I  like  the  simplicity  of  the  whole 
thing — that  high  neck,  fitted 
sleeves — note  that  the  trouser 
fullness  is  subtly  disguised. 


Gene  Robert  Richee 


EVER  since  young  Phillips  Holmes,  as  Clyde  Griffiths,  sat  down  in  the  electric  chair, 
he  has  been  getting  more  and  more  famous.  Given  a  reputation  by  his  labors  in  "An 
American  Tragedy,"  he.  trots  from  stage  to  stage  trying  to  catch  up  with  his  roles. 
He  will  soon  appear  in  "The  Man  I  Killed."    Always  murdering! 


Maurice  Chevalier  and  one  of 
his  fiddler  boy  friends  sneak 
up  on  the  microphone  and 
make  a  record  that  sparkles 
with  pep 


By  Ida   Z  e  i  1 1  i 


n 


THE  time  is  10:15  of  a  pleasant  morning.  The  place  is 
the  recording  studio  of  the  Victor  Company — a  huge, 
windowless  room,  artificially  lighted  and  ventilated,  and 
equipped  with  an  assortment  of  musical  instruments 
of  so  many  shapes  and  varieties  that  you  would  probably  have 
trouble  naming  half  of  them. 

Yet  so  vast  is  this  room  that,  despite  its  paraphernalia, 
despite  the  twenty  people,  the  piano,  the  platform  and  the  score 
of  chairs  held  comfortably  within  its  middle  region,  it  creates 
an  impression  of  emptiness.  You  notice  at  once  that  the  floor 
you  walk  on,  the  ceiling  over  your  head,  the  walls  around  you, 
are  different  from  the  floors  and  the  walls  and  the  ceilings  of 
your  every-day  existence;  and  upon  inquiring,  you  are  informed 
that,  for  technical  reasons,  all  these  surfaces  have  undergone 
some  special  and  mysterious  process  of  treatment. 

The  chairs  are  occupied  by  musicians,  mostly  young.  On  a 
dais  facing  them,  close  to  a  microphone,  stands  the  con- 
ductor— a  curly-haired,  pleasant-faced  youth  whose  manner  is 
friendly  and  free  of  any  trace  of  bumptious  authority.  Yet 
make  no  mistake.  This  amiable  young  man,  who  works  in 
shirt-sleeved  brotherhood  with  his  orchestra  and  addresses  them 
for  the  most  part  as  "chiselers,"  is  no  less  surely  the  boss  of  his 
outfit  than  Toscanini  standing  in  glory  on  the  stage  of  Carnegie 
Hall. 

There  is  a  sense  of  expectancy  in  the  air — that  feeling  which 
pervades  a  theater  just  before  the  curtain  goes  up.  The  orches- 
tra is  rehearsing  an  unfamiliar  melody,  at  the  same  time  keep- 
ing its  eyes  cocked  toward  the  door  that  leads  into  the  street. 
The  prevailing  spirit  of  good  humor 
is  catching.  It  even  manages, 
somehow,  to  sneak  its  way  into  the 
dreamy  notes  of  the  waltz  they're 
playing,  that  sounds  as  if  it  were 
destined  to  become  one  of  the 
season's  favorite  dance  tunes. 

There  seems  to  be  some  confusion 
as  they  near  the  end.  The  con- 
ductor sends  an  inquiring  eyebrow 
toward  the  piano.  "Say,  Len!" 
comes  a  plaintive  voice  from  that 
direction,  "these  four  bars  at  the 
end  don't  mean  nothin'!" 


Maurice  Chevalier, 
the  boy  who  breaks 
records,  also  makes 
them.   Now  read  how ! 


"Len" — otherwise  Mr.  Leonard  Joy,  whose  name  seems 
singularly  appropriate  to  the  genial  atmosphere  he  creates — 
joins  the  pianist.  Their  knitted  brows  and  rhythmic  fingers 
are  bent  above  the  score.  The  others  relax.  One  of  them  eyes 
me  speculatively;  then,  taking  the  plunge,  calls  in  a  confidential 
whisper,  "You  gunna  write  us  up?" 

But  the  whisper  isn't  confidential  enough.  "Hey,  fellas,  look 
what  wants  a  write-up!"  chortles  his  neighbor.  "It  ain't  us 
she's  gunna  write  up,  nitwit!"  he  adds  severely.  "It's  the 
French  egg!" 

ryHIS  releases  a  flood  of  contributions. 
1      "What  a  guy  that  is!" 
"Does  that  bird  know  his  business!" 

"Takes  him  an  hour  'n'  a  half  to  do  his  stuff  where  it  takes 
the  rest  of  'em  double." 
"An'  that's  no  buggy-ride!" 

"Say,  lady,  watch  him  talk  to  the  mike.    It's  a  laugh!" 
"All  right,  boys,  let's  go!"  calls  the  leader.     "We'll  take  it 
with  the  second  ending." 

Once,  twice,  three  times  they  play  the  song— play  it  until 

each  note  emerges,  clear  and  round,  and  the  melody  seems  to 

assume  an  airy  shape  of  its  own  that  floats  charmingly  about 

the  room  on  its  dancing  feet. 

The  last  quiver  of  sound  dies  away.     "Ginsburg!"  comes  a 

deep-throated     chorus     from     the 

players  who  look    rather    pleased 

with  themselves  as  they  lower  their 

instruments.     Ginsburg?     Well,  it 

certainly    sounded    like    Ginsburg, 

unless  my  ears  are  playing  me  some 

fancy  trick.    Mr.  Joy  takes  pity  on 

my  mystified  face  and  explains. 

"It's  a  gag,"  he  says.  "One  of 
the  fellows  brought  it  back  from  a 
picture  studio  where  he  worked. 
Every  time  the  director  shot  a  scene 
he'd  say  to  his  head  yes-man,  'It's 
good,  Ginsburg!'     So  they  started 


"Geenzborgh! '    yells   Chevalier,   and   another  record's  made! 


yelling  it  here  whenever  they  liked  themselves — and  after  a 
while  it  came  to  be  just  'Ginsburg!'  Means — "  he  concluded 
with  a  deprecating  grin,  "it's  swell!" 

It  is  past  ten-thirty — the  hour  at  which  the  French  singer  for 
whom  they  are  waiting  is  scheduled  to  arrive.  He  had,  to  be 
sure,  stepped  off  the  Hollywood  train  only  that  morning. 
Tardiness  under  such  conditions  might  be  considered  excus- 
able. 

Yet  when,  at  promptly  ten-forty,  a  man  of  average  height, 
in  a  gray  suit  and  a  fedora  hat,  with  warm  blue  eyes  and  a 
slightly  protruding  lower  lip,  makes  his  appearance — produc- 
ing, incidentally,  on  the  occupants  of  the  room  the  effect  of  a 
slight  and  stimulating  electric  shock  that  stiffens  their  backs 
and  brings  a  sparkle  into  their  eyes — there  is  apparent  on  the 
newcomer's  agreeable  face  a  look  of  genuine  distress. 

"I  am  late,"  he  says,  turning  to  Joy,  and  the  voice  and  the 
accent  are  those  that  within  the  brief  space  of  three  years  have 
grown  to  be  a  familiar  delight  in  every  corner  of  the  world. 
But  the  still  more  famous  smile  is  missing.  In  repose  Maurice 
Chevalier's  face  is  unexpectedly  grave,  even  stern — reflecting, 
perhaps,  the  sternness  of  the  poverty-haunted  years  of  his  early 
youth.  "I  am  late,  but  I  think  it  is  not  my  fault.  No  one  told 
me  I  must  come  here,  so  I  went  first  to  44th  Street.  I  am 
terribly  sorry." 

THEY  get  down  promptly  to  business.  Mr.  Joy  raises  his 
baton  and  the  notes  of  the  waltz  they  have  just  been  re- 
hearsing drift  once  more  through  the  room.  Chevalier,  having 
removed  his  collar  and  lighted  a  cigarette,  hums  the  air  as  he 
listens.  The  first  violinist,  a  boy  with  great  dark  eyes  who  looks 
about  eighteen,  smiles  up  at  him  and  Chevalier  smiles  back. 
Impossible  to  analyze  that  smile,  still  more  impossible  to  resist 
it.  It  seems  to  hold  the  essence  of  all  the  friendliness  and  kindly 
warmth  that  one  human  being  may  feel  for  his  fellows. 

Chevalier  nods  his  approval,  hangs  his  coat  and  vest  over  the 
back  of  a  chair,  and,  hands  in  pockets,  takes  his  place  at  the  micro- 
phone. The  god  of  the  control  room,  where  the  technical  equip- 
ment is  housed,  emerges,  makes  some  adjustment  in  the  combina- 
tion radio- Victrola  that  stands  against  the  wall,  and  disappears. 


A  second's  pause  is  followed  by  a  long,  wavering  buzz, 
which  is  the  signal  for  silence.  Another  buzz,  long  and  steady. 
Two  flutes  in  the  back  stand  up.  A  third  buzz,  repeated, 
short  and  sharp,  and  the  music  floats  out. 

Chevalier  begins  to  sing.  Gone  is  the  serious  mask,  gone  the 
preoccupied  air.  His  face  lights  up,  his  hands  move  easily 
from  gesture  to  gesture,  and  wherever  he  puts  them  is  the  place 
where  they  should  be;  his  shoulders  talk,  his  eyebrows  are  more 
eloquent  than  most  people's  tongues.  His  whole  body  is  the 
sensitive  instrument  through  every  inch  of  which  he  conveys, 
far  more  vividly  than  in  words,  the  spirit  of  his  song. 

FINISHING  the  first  chorus,  he  steps  away  from  the  mike  to 
make  room  for  the  dark-eyed,  long-lashed  boy  who,  looking 
more  childish  than  ever  with  his  grave  face  bent  above  the 
violin,  plays  a  brief  solo  into  the  microphone.  As  he  in  his 
turn  steps  back  from  the  instrument,  Chevalier  makes  him  a 
low  bow  which  he  as  ceremoniously  returns. 

It's  a  love  ditty  that  he's  singing,  written  by  the  authors  of 
"Louise,"  that  popular  ballad  of  his  first  picture.  Its  words 
contain  none  of  the  humor,  none  of  the  sophistication  of  the 
French  favorites  with  which  he  earned  his  European  reputa- 
tion. It  is  a  purely  American  product,  boasting  a  purely 
American  flavor.  "Will  I  ever  find  the  girl  in  my  mind,  the 
girl  who  is  my  ideal?" 

Yet,  those  of  you  who  saw  "Innocents  of  Paris,"  who  saw 
Chevalier  standing  by  a  flower-covered  wall  in  the  moonlight 
singing  to  the  wistful  girl  above  him,  who  remember  the  half- 
tender,  half-mischievous  smile  with  which  he  seemed  to  mock 
the  sentimentality  of  the  words  as  he  sang  them,  who  realized 
how  by  the  deftness  and  grace  of  his  touch  he  lifted  that  scene 
out  of  the  commonplace,  and  transmitted  it  into  a  genuine 
emotional  expression  of  the  beauty  and  pathos  of  young  love, 
will  understand  how  he  worked  a  similar  miracle  with  this  one. 

The  first  test  is  finished.  Everyone  gathers  about  the 
radio-Victrola  to  listen  with  professional  concern  to  the 
reproduction.  There's  something  a  little  eerie  about  this 
instantaneous  mechanical  repetition  of  the  sounds  that  a 
moment  before  were  being  made  by  [  please  turn  to  page  114 


Here's  a  new  experience 
for  a  little  fellow  with  a 
big  reputation !  Mervyn 
LeRoy,  the  youngster 
who  made  himself 
famous  by  directing 
"Little  Caesar"  and 
"Five  Star  Final,"  puts 
Gloria  Swanson  through 
her  paces  in  "Tonight 
or  Never"  for  Goldwyn. 
Look,  everything 
must  be  all  right  — 
they're  smiling! 


66 


Bert  Longwortli 


^'OODNESS  gracious  alive  to  Betsy!  Can't  we  girls  get  any 
^^privacy  at  all?  Take  Ruth  Chatterton — and  that's  a  pip  of  an 
idea!  Here  she  is,  reading  her  "Tatler"  in  bed,  and  a  pair  of  brash 
young  cameramen  have  pushed  past  the  maid  and  are  firing  away 
point  blank — the  brutes!    A  scene  for  Ruth's  new  "Once  a  Lady" 


67 


$2,ooo.Qo  p 


nze 


Lovely  Marian 
Marsh,  who  will 
play  the  leading 
role  in  the  story 
selected  by  the 
Photoplay- 
Warner  judges 


STORY  number  109  wins! 
The  PHOTOPLAY-Warner  Bros,  story  contest  is  over. 
The  judges — who  read  and  re-read  those  10,000  manu- 
scripts— are  resting  at  last.     Warner  Bros,  are  preparing 
to  film  the  now  famous  "Beauty  and  the  Boss,"  with  Marian 
Marsh  and  David  Manners  in  the  leading  roles. 
Story  number  109! 

What  does  this  mean?     As  the   10,000  manuscripts  were 
received  they  were  given  to  a  corps  of  stenographers  to  be 


As  human  and  as  romantic  as  the 
winning  story  itself  is  this  one  about 
the  girl  whose  words  meant  dollars 


copied,  all  of  them  typed  on  the  same  kind  of  paper,  set  up  in  the  same 
way,  bound  together  with  the  same  patent  clasps,  alike  as  blonde  chorus 
girls. 

No  name,  address  or  other  identifying  mark  was  put  on  these  type- 
written copies,  except  that  each  was  given  a  number  corresponding  to 
the  number  that  had  been  placed  on  the  original  manuscript  as  it  was 
received  at  the  Photoplay  office.  The  judges  saw  only  the  typewritten 
copy — the  originals  having  been  placed  in  locked  steel  cabinets.  There 
was  no  way  of  determining  whether  the  writers  were  men  or  women, 
young  or  old,  rich  or  poor,  worthy  or  unworthy.  The  winning  manu- 
script had  to  stand  or  fall  on  its  own  merit  as  a  story  that  best  suited  the 
requirements  of  Warner  Bros,  and  most  strictly  followed  the  rules  and  the 
spirit  of  the  contest. 

Therefore,  it  was  with  all  the  expectancy  of  the  unfolding  of  a  mystery 
drama  that  the  original  copy  of  ms.  109  was  brought  from  the  filing 
cabinet  and,  for  the  first  time,  the  name  of  the  lucky  winner  read.  This 
gesture  had  all  the  elements  of  suspense  and  surprise  that  the  winning 
story  itself  has.  It  was  called — as  suggested  by  the  contest — "Beauty 
and  the  Boss,"  although  this  was  not  obligatory. 

THE  name?    The  writer  of  the  mysterious  yarn?  "Jane  E.  Considine, 
Philadelphia,  Pa.,"  was  written  in  the  upper  right  hand  corner  of 
page  one. 

She  is  twenty-one  years  old. 

She  is  medium  height,  with  dark  hair  and  eyes  and  an  olive  skin. 
She  loves  sports,  is  a  great  movie  fan  and  does  not  believe  in  diet. 

She  is  a  typical  young  American  girl — modern,  up-to-date  but 
not  a  flapper.  Thoughtful,  but  not  solemn.  She  has  stamina 
and  courage.  She  is  the  highest  type  of  American  young 
womanhood. 

And  this  yarn  of  hers  that  won  first  place  in  an  international 
contest  that  attracted  writers  of  much  greater  maturity  and 
experience  and  produced  numbers  of  promising  picture  stories, 
is  the  first  attempt  at  story  writing  for  a  motion  picture  that  Jane 
has  ever  made!  It  bears  out  the  theory  that  was  advanced  at 
the  beginning  of  the  contest  that  there  is  always  a  place  in 
the  movies  for  good  original  stories,  whether  they  be  written  by 
professionals  or  not! 

Three  years  ago,  when  Jane  was  a  high  school  junior  in 
West  Philadelphia,  she  won  first  prize  in  a  newspaper  essay 
contest  for  that  year.  That  was  just  before  her  eighteenth 
birthday.  The  name  of  the  essay  was  "Words,  Words,  Words" 
and  the  second  paragraph  read: 

"Only  words,  but  what  important  things  they  are!  A 
world  of  usefulness  and  beauty  is  embodied  in  their  letters.  .  .  . 
'Tree'  is  a  beautiful  word.  It  is  free  and  green  and  leafy  all  at 
once.  'Leaves'  belong  to  a  tree  and  not  between  the  con- 
fining covers  of  a  book.  But  sometimes,  when  the  book  is 
opened  and  its  world  of  words  are  quickened  to  life  by  your 
mind,  they  are  suddenly  living  'leaves.'  ' 

At  twenty,  entering  her  junior  year  at  college,  Jane  Con- 
sidine proved  that  when  "quickened  to  life"  by  the  mind, 
words  might  become  "living  leaves."  For  Jane's  words,  1700 
of  them,  quickened  by  her  imagination  and  her  orderly,  clear 
thinking  into  a  story,  have  won  the  $2,000  cash  award  offered 
by  Warner  Bros,  through  Photoplay! 

Since  writing  the  prize  winning  story  Jane  has  had  another 
wonderful  experience  as  a  direct  result  of  her  literary  and  gen- 
eral scholastic  attainments. 

As  a  pupil  of  Rosemont  College,  a  beautiful  school  for 
girls  just  outside  of  Philadelphia,  Jane  stood  highest  of  the 
four  girls,   who,  because  of  excellent  grades,  are  privileged 


Won   by  Lrirl 


1* rom  lhiladelphia 


to  spend  their  junior  year  at  the  affiliated  school  in  Switzerland,  the 
University  of  Fribourg. 

So,  three  weeks  before  the  PHOTOPLAY-Warner  Bros,  award  was  made, 
Jane  sailed  for  Europe  and  a  thrilling  year  at  the  foreign  university. 
Two  days  before  the  boat  landed  in  France,  she  celebrated  her  21st 
birthday. 

Her  parents  are  not  wealthy.  Sending  Jane  to  college  abroad  means 
sacrifice  to  them.  Just  before  she  sailed  Jane  said,  "Wouldn't  it  be 
wonderful  if  I  could  do  something  to  earn  my  own  way?"  So  that  is 
where  the  $2,000  will  go,  to  continue  the  education  of  a  girl  who  may 
some  day  be  one  of  the  great  literary  figures  of  America. 

And  yet  her  parents  did  not  know  that  their  daughter  had  entered  the 
contest!  That's  the  sort  of  girl  Jane  is.  She  did  not  want  them  to 
become  unduly  excited  or  disappointed  if  she  did  not  win. 

But  the  family  were  all  singularly  unsurprised  by  the  announcement. 
Jane  has  always  had  a  way  of  coming  through  with  unexpected  victories 
and  triumphs.  No  one  had  known  of  her  entering  the  newspaper  essay 
contest  three  years  before  until  the  publication  announced  it  by  a 
telephone  message  and  reporters  from  the  Philadelphia  newspapers 
asked  her  to  pose  for  their  cameramen! 

Apparently  Jane's  family  wouldn't  be  bowled  over  if  they  were 
suddenly  told  that  Jane  had  been  elected  President  of  the  United 
States. 

And  not  until  this  issue  of  Photoplay  appears  on  the  news  stands 
will  Jane  receive  the  cable  telling  her  that  she  has  won  the  contest. 


This  is  our  hand- 
some hero,  David 
Manners,  who  will 
have  the  other 
principal  part  in 
Miss  Jane  Con- 
sidine's  winning 
story,  "Beauty 
and    the   Boss" 


Here's  the  lucky  girl.    Name :  Jane  Considine.  Age : 

21.    Her  first  attempt  at  writing  for  the  screen  has 

brought  her  fame  and  fortune.    She  typifies  the  best 

of  young  American  womanhood 


A  reporter  from  Photoplay  made  a  trip  to  Philadelphia 
to  discover  what  manner  of  person  Jane  Considine  is.  She  is 
a  native  of  Philadelphia,  born  in  the  house,  comfortable  and 
unpretentious,  that  she  and  her  family  still  call  home,  in  a 
pleasant  section  of  the  city.  She  has  an  older  sister  Mary, 
a  sixteen-year-old  brother  Jimmie,  and  little  sister  Betty,  who 
is  twelve. 

Jane's  father,  James  P.  Considine,  was  manager  of  the 
old  Philadelphia  North  American  newspaper  for  twenty  years. 
Mary  E.  Considine,  Jane's  mother,  was  for  many  years  a 
contributor  to  the  magazine  section  of  the  Philadelphia 
"Record,"  writing  articles  and  stories  of  interest  to  children 
and  advice  on  marketing  and  household  helps  for  the  women's 
pages.    So  there's  "printer's  ink"  in  Jane's  veins. 

Jane  had  already  sailed  for  Europe  when  the  fateful  manu- 
script was  chosen,  but  from  the  family  the  reporter  learned 
much  about  the  winner.  [  please  turn  to  page  121  ] 

69 


Wh 


Ti 


en    1HEY 


W 


Vl 


ere    VERY 


Just  a  wistful  little  fistful,  or  Portrait  of  a  Flaming  Youth  Before  They  Put 

the  Torch  to  Her.    Joan  Crawford  at  the  age  of  six,  when  she  was  just 

Mrs.  LeSueur's  little  girl,  Lucille.    Do  you  see  any  resemblance  to  the 

dashing  Joan  of  today? 


This  young  lady 
really  believed 
there  were  birdies 
in  cameras  when 
this  was  taken, 
but  that  was  be- 
cause she  was 
only  eight  months 
old.  Bebe  Daniels 
knows  a  lot  dif- 
ferent now 


Booful!  That's 
what  we'd  say 
that  hat  is.  Or 
rather,  what  we'd 
say  it  is  if  we  were 
Winnie-the-Pooh. 
Being  ourselves, 
we'll  just  say, 
"Some  Hat!"  And 
the  little  girl? 
Norma  Shearer, 
of  course 


70 


Y 


Can  You  Tell  Whose  Ittie  Bittie  Baby 
OUIlff        Is    Oo  Without   Reading  Names? 


We  won't  even  try  to  fool  you  with  this  one,  for  it  doesn't  take  a  Philo  Vance 

to  see  that  the  five-year-old  charmer  above  and  the  grown  charmer  on  the  left 

are  both  Marlene  Dietrich.    No  difference  at  all,  is  there?    Except  Marlene's 

showing  a  little  more  leg  these  days 


Three  poses  of  a  little 
lass  who  seems  happy 
enough  to  be  in  her 
Seventh  Heaven.  But 
she  didn't  get  there 
until  many  years  later, 
for  Janet  Gaynor  was 
just  five  when  these 
were  taken 


71 


The    Unknown 

Hollywood 


I  K 


now 


Part  Three 


Filmdom's  sinister  underworld  .  .  .  Cecil 
B.  De  Mille's  pose  .  .  .  what  Mary  Pick- 
ford's  mother  thought  about  her  daughter 
.   .   .   and  a  lot  more  inside  stuff 


This  coy  damsel  in  natty 
shepherd's  plaid  suit  (how 
about  it,  Seymour?)  is  the 
author  as   a   comedy   queen 


HOLLYWOOD,  in  those 
days,  had  a  back  door 
which  was  mean  and 
ugly.  Through  it  there 
came,  in  the  night,  dark  and  sinister  figures — fantastic  shapes 
with  furtive  movements,  sharp  eager  eyes  and  shifting  hands 
ready  to  pounce  upon  foolish  girls  who  wanted  to  become  ac- 
tresses. 

They  played  upon  ambition. 

In  the  last  two  chapters  of  this  story  I've  told  you  of  the 
brighter  side  of  Hollywood,  the  gay  days  at  the  Griffith  and 
Metro  studios.     I  was  soon  to 
discover  the  ominous  underworld 
that  operated  on  the  small  side 
streets  of  the  little  town. 

The  place  was  covered  by  a 
hord  of  Detty  racketeers  as  a 
democratic  convention  is  cov- 
ered by  reporters. 

Anybody  can  buy  an  ad  in  a 
newspaper.  It  was  through  these 
columns  that  the  tawdry  under- 
world sent  out  its  slimy  octopus- 
like feelers. 

The  legends  read,  "Big  oppor- 
tunities in  show  business  and 
movies  for  ambitious  girls — very 
little  experience  necessary!"  It 
sounded  great. 

HOW  many  stupid  girls  an- 
swered these  calls  I  don't 
know.  The  returns  must  have 
been  tremendous.  My  first  ex- 
perience was  fairly  typical  of 
them  all. 

The  address  given  was  a 
shabby  office  approached  by 
rickety  stairs. 

I  discovered  two  tobacco- 
smoke  laden  rooms  in  one  of 
which  sat  a  sleazy  girl  making  a 
few  false  gestures  on  a  decrepit 
typewriter.  A  greasy  lock  of 
hair  hung  across  her  forehead 
and  her  lips  were  scarlet.  I  told 
her  I'd  come  in  answer  to  the  ad- 
vertisement. 


By  Katherine  Albert 


She  murmured  "uh-huh"  and 

disappeared  into  the  other  room 

to  which,  shortly,  the  door  was 

opened   and   a   lean   man   with 

deep  wrinkles  cut  into  his  cheeks  appeared. 

His  mouth  was  curled  into  a  smile  but  his  eyes,  as  they  met 
mine  directly,  were  humorless.  I  was  stupid  enough  to  believe 
that  honest  men  were  those  who  looked  you  square  in  the  eye. 
I've  since  learned  that  this  is  the  trick  of  the  crook.  I've  never 
known  a  first  class  confidence  man  who  did  not  give  you  a 
direct,  straight-forward  gaze.     He  motioned  me  in — the  girl 

had  left  through  some  outer  door 
— and  offered  me  a  seat  across 
from  the  mean,  littered  desk. 


SO,  you'i 
you?"  he 


"Jack  has  caused  me  heartaches.  Mary  hasn't !" 
Thus  spoke  Mrs.  Pickford — that  amazing  human 
dynamo  who  made  movie  history.  Here  she  is 
with  her  children  many  years  before  her  death 


re  an  actress,  are 
le  began,  rubbing  one 
jeweled  hand  over  the  other. 

"Yes,  I  suppose  I  am,"  I  said, 
"I've  been  at  the  Griffith  studio 
and  I've  just  finished  a  part  at 
Metro  in  'The  Saphead.'  " 

His  lips  drew  back  from  his 
broken  teeth.  "Ah,  you  know 
Griffith,  then?" 

I  nodded.  "But  he's  in  New 
York  now,"  I  said. 

"Who  directed  this  'Sap- 
head'?" 

"Herbert  Blache  and  Winchell 
Smith." 

He  leaned  back  and  tapped 
his  teeth  with  an  unkempt  fore- 
finger. "I  've  a  great  proposition 
for  some  bright  girl — like  your- 
self, for  instance."  He  leaned 
forward.  "My  partner  and  I  are 
starting  a  motion  picture  com- 
pany. We've  a  great  story  and 
it  will  put  some  girl  right  on  the 
top  of  the  heap.  But  what  we 
need  is  a  great  director.  Now 
you've  been  in  Hollywood  long 
enough  to  know  that  the  per- 
sonal contact  is  what  counts  and 
if  you're  to  play  the  starring 
role  in  the  picture  ..." 

I  interrupted.  "Oh,  I  couldn't 


Here  he  is!  Cecil  B.  De  Mille  in  his  old  office.  Here  it  was  he 
surrounded  himself  with  the  pomp  and  ceremony  befitting  one  of 
the  world's  greatest  personal  showmen.  He  terrified  young  actresses 
by  having  them  walk  the  length  of  floor  to  his  desk.    All  a  trick! 


where  the  head  designer,  Claire  West, 
told  me  it  would  be  better  if  I  saw  De 
Mille  in  evening  clothes.  She  proceeded 
to  have  brought  in  the  most  amazing 
assortment  of  gowns  I've  ever  seen.  It 
was  a  dress  that  Gloria  Swanson  had 
worn  in  one  of  the  director's  so-called 
society  epics  that  Miss  West  at  last  chose 
— a  thing  of  heavy  silver  cloth  trimmed 
with  ropes  of  beads  and  hanging  fringe. 
It  had  a  long  train  but  no  back  at  all. 

I  was  helped  into  this  dress  feeling 
pretty  doggone  silly  about  the  whole 
affair.  There  is  nothing  that  makes  you 
feel  quite  so  absurd  as  the  wearing  of 
evening  clothes  in  the  broad  daylight. 
The  gown  hung  on  me.  My  unformed 
shoulders  were  but  barely  able  to  hold 
the  weight  of  all  those  beads.  Young  and 
silly  as  I  was,  I  realized  it  was  a  mistake 
and  would  rather  have  seen  the  director 
in  my  comfortable  street  clothes  in  which 
I  felt  at  ease.  But  Miss  West  assured  me 
that  De  Mille  enjoyed  interviewing  em- 
bryonic actresses  in  decolletage.  Mine 
not  to  reason  the  why  of  a  god. 

We  trailed  into  the  outer  De  Mille 
office.  We  waited  the  proper  number  of 
minutes  and  then,  at  last,  word  came 
from  on  high  that  I  was  to  be  admitted 
into  The  Presence.  I  had  expected  that 
Miss  West     [  please  turn  to  page  104  ] 


play  a  starring  role  yet.  I  haven't  had  enough  ex- 
perience." 

His  mouth  smiled  and  his  hand  waved  aside  my 
protest.  "Nonsense.  Why,  I  can  tell  by  looking 
at  you  that  you  were  born  to  act.  You'll  be  a 
great  little  actress  with  the  proper  director.  Sure, 
you  can  play  the  star  part.  You've  possibilities — ■ 
wonderful!  But  you'll  need  a  director  you  under- 
stand and  who  understands  you.  I  want  you  to 
pick  your  own  director.  The  Blache  who  directed 
this  'Saphead' — he  sounds  okay.  So  here's  what 
you're  to  do.  Get  to  know  him  socially — see  him 
a  lot  and  ..." 

Amazed,  I  listened  to  the  tale  unfold.  After  the 
clumsy  beginning  the  real  idea  began  to  seep 
through.  It  was  one  of  the  oldest  rackets  in  the 
world — the  oldest  blackmailing  stunt.  I  was  to 
compromise  a  director  and  my  benefactor  was  to 
rush  in  to  act  as  my  champion,  accusing  the 
director  of  making  advances  to  an  innocent  girl 
who  had  come  to  him  on  a  business  matter. 

The  director  would,  rather  than  be  subjected  to 
the  scandal  which  the  racketeer  threatened,  settle 
for  money.  Simple,  easy,  direct.  By  using  a 
young,  naive  girl  the  director  would  be  taken  off 
his  guard  and  more  easily  victimized. 


I  FLED  from  the  office  as  quickly  as  I  could.  But 
there  were  other  girls  who  remained  to  play  his 
game  and  many  important  directors  and  executives 
have  been  duped  in  just  this  fashion. 

A  few  days  later — through  a  friend  of  my 
mother's — I  secured  an  interview  with  Cecil  De 
Mille,  and  that  remains  one  of  the  most  fantastic 
experiences  of  them  all. 

De  Mille  was,  at  the  time,  at  the  peak  of  his 
bathroom  career  and,  if  that  be  possible,  a  greater  poseur  than 
he  is  today.  He  guided  the  figments  of  his  imagination  through 
impossible  antics  at  the  old  Paramount  studios,  that  low 
rambling  green  building  on  Vine  Street  that  has  now  passed 
into  the  limbo  of  forgotten  things  but  which  once  so  proudly 
boasted  Wally  Reid,  Bebe  Daniels,  Elliott  Dexter,  Gloria 
Swanson  and  little  Lila  Lee.  De  Mille  was,  then,  preparing  to 
film  "Fool's  Paradise"  with  Dorothy  Dalton,  Conrad  Nagel 
and  Mildred  Harris. 

I  came  to  the  studio  dressed  in  my  ordinary  street  clothes 
but  I  was  whisked  immediately  to  the  wardrobe  department 


Ten  years  ago  Mary 
Miles  Minter,  al- 
though a  "snooty" 
kid  was  a  beautiful 
one.  She  assumed 
an  attitude  of  bore- 
dom at  parties 


Now,  retired  from 
films,  this  is  the 
way  Mary  looks. 
Note  the  extra 
poundage.  What! 
No  diets,  Mary? 


73 


B 


e  a  u  t  y . 


!  C 


ASK  yourself  what  you  want  to  be — and 
be  honest  about  it!  Look  deep  into 
yourself,  at  that  inner  person  that  is 
really  you.  I  am  willing  to  wager  that 
nine  out  of  ten  of  you  will  say  that  you  want 
to  be  a  person  that  has  charm,  that  is  sought 
after  by  men  and  women  alike,  that  is  a  real 
personage  and  not  just  another  face  in  the 
crowd.    Am  I  not  right? 

A  very  delightful  friend  of  mine  was  once 
asked  before  a  class  in  high  school  what  she 
wanted  to  be.  The  other  boys  and  girls  who 
had  answered  the  question  before  her  had  said 
that  they  wanted  to  be  nurses,  lawyers,  etc. — 
but  she  arose  and  made  the  startling  admission 
that  she  wanted  to  be  a  siren  in  Hollywood! 
She  was  honest  with  herself,  she  wouldn't  kid 
herself  that  the  most  natural  of  all  feminine 
desires  is  to  be  fascinating.  Today,  she  is  one 
of  the  most  popular  women  I  know.  The  sense 
of  humor  of  high  school  days,  the  honesty  and 
the  individuality  that  prompted  such  an  answer 
are  still  there — she  is  unspoiled,  she  is  real. 

When  I  say  that  you  can  be  what  you  want 
to  be,  I  mean  just  that.  Furthermore,  I  think  I 
know  whereof  I  speak.  I  watch  closely  the 
women  I  meet  in  both  the  social  and  business 
worlds,  I  study  women  that  I  have  never  met — 
and  I  know  that  the  secret  of  feminine  beauty 
and  charm  lies  within  the  easy  grasp  of  every- 
one. How  can  it  help  but  be  there  at  hand 
when  the  couturiers,  the  cosmeticians  and 
every  modern  agency  are  directing  their  in- 
genuity toward  making  you  the  thing  of  loveli- 
ness you  yearn  to  be? 

If  you  are  one  of  those  girls  who  say,  "I 


harm 


!  P 


o  1  s  e 


! 


could  be  lovely,  too,  if  I  spent  as  much  money 
and  time  on  myself  as  she  does,"  I  feel  sorry  for 
you.  Really  I  do,  because  you  must  have  been 
joggled  off  the  bandwagon  of  this  generation. 

Why  don't  you  put  yourself  on  a  paying 
basis?  Sit  down  in  front  of  a  mirror  and  go 
over  yourself  as  a  business  that  has  been 
steadily  losing.  Look  your  liabilities  in  the 
face  but  don't  let  them  floor  you.  Don't  fail  to 
count  your  assets.  See  just  where  you  are  fail- 
ing now  and  how  with  a  boost  mentally  and 
physically,  you  can  pay  dividends  in  beauty, 
personality,  charm,  popularity  and  poise.  It 
can  be  done,  you  need  only  to  make  a  career  of 
yourself  for  awhile! 

Every  day  I  receive  letters  from  you  who 
lament  a  freckle  or  two,  or  the  fact  that  you 
wear  glasses,  or  that  your  hands  are  too  large. 
What  of  it?  Hundreds  of  attractive  women 
have  similar  troubles  but  they  overcome  their 
slight  imperfections  by  playing  up  their  good 
points.     Beauty  is  a  manner  that  you  wear 


Friendly    Advice 

on  GIRLS'  PROBLEMS 

I  will  gladly  send  you  an  answer  to 
any  personal  problems  about  hair, 
correct  colors  for  your  type,  and  shades 
in  make-up.  Merely  send  me  a 
stamped,  self-addressed  envelope.  AH 
your  letters  will  be  held  in  strict  con- 
fidence. 

Ask  for  my  booklet  of  normalizing 
exercises  and  non-fattening  menus. 
Or  for  my  complexion  leaflet,  giving 
general  advice  on  the  care  of  the  skin 
and  specific  treatment  for  blackheads 
and  acne. 

Address  Carolyn  Van  Wyck  at 
Photoplay,  221  West  57th  Street, 
New  York  City. 


gallantly  these  days.  Perhaps  you  are  not  per- 
fection feature  for  feature,  if  analyzed — but 
few  people  will  notice  it  if  your  skin  looks  fresh 
and  well  made-up,  if  your  smile  is  gay,  your 
eyes  sparkling  and  your  hands  exclamation 
points  of  animation. 

Just  the  other  day  I  had  a  letter  from  a 
woman  who  had  read  my  article  recently  on 
make-up.  She  said  that  she  answered  the 
description  of  the  woman  I  mentioned,  who  had 
never  realized  how  lovely  she  was  until  one  day 
she  found  herself  in  a  beauty  salon  by  the 
simple  aid  of  rouge!  And  so  she  wrote  to  tell 
me  that  she  had  achieved  a  flashing  new  self, 
too.  "And  to  think,"  she  said,  "that  a  light 
coating  of  liquid  rouge  over  my  whole  face 
under  my  powder  could  transform  me  from  the 
drab  Cinderella  that  I  was." 

How  do  you  acquire  personality  and  what  is 
it?  I  wish  I  could  tell  you  how  many  girls  have 
asked  me  that  burning  question  in  the  past  few 
years.  Asking  what  personality  is,  is  another 
way  of  asking  how  to  be  popular.  The  two  go 
hand  in  hand.  It  is  the  girl  with  personality 
and  lots  of  it,  who  is  sought  after  in  business 
and  society,  whose  telephone  starts  ringing  at 
nine  in  the  morning.  Personality  is  the  iron  in 
beauty's  dish,  charm,  the  flavoring.  You  can't 
put  your  finger  on  personality,  in  many  ways  it 
is  an  elusive  something.  However,  you  can 
analyze  yourself  to  find  the  missing  ingredient. 
See  if  you  can  find  where  you  fall  down  by 
asking  yourself: 

Do  I  have  a  sense  of  humor? 

A  m  I  well  dressed,  carefully  groomed? 

Do  I  appear  well  in  public? 

Am  I  a  sym pathetic  friend  and  good  listener? 

Have  I  a  good  disposition  or  am  I  short  tem- 
pered and  caustic  in  my  remarks? 

Have  I  tried  to  talk  entertainingly? 

Do  I  make  an  effort  to  dance  well,  to  be  a  good 
sport? 

Can  I  see  both  my  bad  and  good  points? 


Here's  Claire  Dodd's  recipe 
for  slender  ankles:  Walk  on 
tiptoe,  without  shoes,  for  ten 
minutes  each  day.  Also  take 
a  stationary  position  and  al- 
ternate the  body  weight  from 
the  toes  of  one  foot  to  the 
other.  Lastly,  bandage  your 
instep  and  ankles  in  gauze  be- 
fore doing  strenuous  sports 


7', 


X  ersonality   and   L  opularity  I 


Any  Girl  Can 
Be  What  She 
Wants  To  Be 

Says 

Carolyn 
Van  Wyck 


The  writer  of  these  pages 
is  a  well  known  and  cul- 
tured New  York  society 
woman  whom  PHOTOPLAY 
secured  several  years  ago 
to  assist  our  young  women 
readers  in  their  problems. 
Write  her  about  yours,  no 
matter  what  they  are.  She 
will    be    glad    to    help  you 


See  yourself  with  impartial  eyes,  then  build  for 
personality. 

Don't  overlook  poise  along  with  personality. 
The  girl  who  can  stand  alone  with  assurance, 
who  is  at  ease,  is  the  girl  with  personality. 
Self-consciousness  can  ruin  the  best  of  social 
and  business  opportunities.  You  don't  have  to 
be  conceited  to  have  poise,  you  merely  need  an 
intelligent  evaluation  of  yourself.  Know  that 
you  are  well-dressed,  carefully  groomed,  charm- 
ing— and  people  will  know  it,  too.  That's  the 
magic  of  it! 

I  don't  know  why  but  the  word  charm  seems 
to  have  a  warm  glow  about  its  very  sound  to 
me.  I  always  feel  so  satisfied  after  meeting  a 
woman  who  radiates  it.     I  tike  to  have  you 


Are  You  Thinkin 
of  Someone? 


ARK  yon  an  active,  worthwhile. 
enthusiastic  friend ?  Does 
your  friendship  really  mean 
something—  or  is  it  just  an  empty 
term  that  stands  for  nothing  at 
all?  Do  you  show  your  friend- 
ship in  those  little,  hut  all  im- 
portant ways?  Do  you,  for  in- 
stance, let  your  friends  know 
that  you  are  thinking  of  them? 

In  other  words — do  you  write 
letters  to  your  friends?  Or  do 
you  put  off  letter  writing  until 
it  is  perhaps  too  late  to  express 
the  friendship  that  you  feel?  Do 
you  find  your  days  so  full  to 
overflowing  that  the  writing  of  a 
letter  becomes  an  unpleasant 
task? 

There  are  ever  so  many  things 
that  crowd  out  the  business  of 
writing  letters.  Shopping  and 
sewing  and  cooking  and  con- 
tract— housework  and  home- 
work! They  all  cut  into  our 
time,  one  way  or  another.  And 
then  the  day  is  gone — and  the 
friendly  letter  is  still  unwritten. 

It's  a  horrid  thing  to  neglect 


the  people  of  whom  you  are 
fond,  isn't  it?  And  it's  unneces- 
sary, too!  Because  you  can  let  a 
friend  know  that  you  are  think- 
ing of  her  (or  him!)  without 
going  to  the  worry  and  fuss  and 
work  of  writing  a  long  letter. 
It's  that  thing  w  hich  the  French 
call  the  beau  geste  that  count-. 
really.  It's  the  beautiful  ges- 
ture— the  letting  a  friend  know 
that  you  have  her  (or,  again. 
him! i  in  mind. 

Here  is  a  simple  and  satis- 
factory solution  to  your  letter 
writing  problem.  Instead  of 
giving  up  a  whole  evening — or  a 
whole  week,  for  that  matter — to 
caring  for  your  correspondence, 
try  this:  Buy  some  ordinary 
postal  cards,  and  writ* — on  each 
one — the  address  of  some  dear 
but  neglected  friend.  And  then, 
on  the  message  side  of  the  card, 
write  simply  this — 

"The  answer  to  the  question 
on  page  75  of  the  current  issue 

of  Photoplay  is — 
"YKS!" 


write  to  me  about  your  little  problems  of 
beauty  and  manners  because  every  letter  I 
answer,  I  like  to  feel  that  I  have  given  each  of 
you  a  gift  of  charm.  Seymour,  in  his  section 
every  month,  is  contributing  his  bit  to  making 
charm  widespread.  He  knows  fashion  and  he 
knows  how  important  a  factor  it  is  to  a  girl's 
charm.  He  makes  fashion  a  refreshing  picture 
full  of  hints  on  how  to  carry  your  clothes  off 
with  the  air  of  a  star. 

And  popularity  is  the  sum  of  these  attributes. 
If  you  have  them,  you  have  popularity  without 
asking.  You  can't  be  popular  if  you  are  self- 
conscious — but  you  can't  be  popular  either  if 
you  are  overbearing.  I  had  a  letter  from  a  girl 
this  morning  who  frankly  admits  that  she  is  not 
popular  with  either  men  or  women.  She  has  no 
friends.  How  pitiful,  you  say,  but  wait!  She 
rinds  single  girls  silly  and  shallow,  and  married 
women  too  busy  to  introduce  her  to  men.  Is 
she  at  fault  or  are  they?  She  is,  of  course.  She 
would  be  angry  if  told  that  she  is  conceited. 
She  thinks  she  has  an  inferiority  complex — in- 
stead she  has  a  disastrous  feeling  of  superiority! 
She  needs  to  look  at  herself  rather  searchingly 


and  then  unlock  some  of  the  doors  on  her  ego. 
There  must  be  balance,  a  happy  medium  of 
knowing  when  to  do  and  say  the  right  thing  in 
order  to  achieve  lasting  popularity,  to  be 
wanted,  beloved  as  every  girl  does. 

Louise  : 

You  will  find  that  it  is  necessary  to  take 
especially  good  care  of  your  hands  in  cold 
weather. 

Cold  has  a  tendency  to  absorb  the  natural 
oil  of  the  skin,  leaving  the  hands  red,  dry  and 
rough. 

Be  sure  to  dry  your  hands  well  after  subject- 
ing them  to  water.  Keep  a  hand  lotion  close 
by,  rub  it  into  your  hands  several  times  a  day. 
Most  of  the  lotions  dry  immediately  so  that 
your  hands  do  not  remain  moist.  Never  go  out 
without  gloves. 

If  you  do  housework  to  any  extent  I  would 
suggest  that  you  wear  gloves. 

Try  creaming  your  hands  at  night  before 
retiring,  then  cover  them  with  cotton  gloves  so 
that  the  grease  will  not  rub  off  in  sleep. 
[  please  reran  to  pace  118  ] 


Do  You  Know  That — 

Fewer  really  smart  women  are  wearing 
those  bizarre  shades  in  nail  polish? 

Shrugging  the  shoulders  is  an  excellent 
exercise  for  filling  out  those  hollows  in 
the  neck?  Try  from  twenty-five  to  fifty- 
high,  wide  shrugs  a  day  and  just  see 
what  they  do  for  that  new  neckline! 

The  body  is  composed  of  eighty-five  per 
cent  water?  And  that  drinking  water 
daily  is  essential  to  good  health  ? 


Your  feet  should  be  given  a  daily 
'"breathing  spell"  if  you  would  avoid 
irritating  foot  iBs? 

A  prominent  beauty  authority  has  in- 
troduced a  new  rouge  that  she  says  is 
"the  essence  of  the  18th  century 
blush"? 

A  porcelain  tone  is  the  basic  ingredient 
for  new  powders  that  give  you  that  new 
transparent  look? 

Silver    blue,    silver    green    and    silver 


mauve  arc  new  shades  in  <•><•  shadow 
that  another  well-known  beauty  au- 
thority is  promoting  for  evening?  She 
says  they  give  the  eyes  a  starry    lustre. 

This  same  house  puts  out  a  midnight 
blue  mascara  that  shades  ami  <-url>  the 
eyelashes  to  intensify  their  natural 
coloring? 

There  is  a  new  type  of  eye  glass  frame 
that  is  [beau  tify  in?;?  It  come-  in  flesh- 
colored  gold  and  is  scarcely  discernible 
at  a  distance. 

75 


Th 


ese 


'A 


Above,  Dorothy 
Sebastian  in  the 
part  that  was  to 
make  her  a  star — 
the  part  she  didn't 
get,  after  all!  A 
scene  with  John 
Barrymore  in  "The 
Tempest."  In  cir- 
cle, little  Camilla 
Horn,  the  German 
girl  who  was  given 
the  role  when  Dot 
was  eased  out 


It's  a  brutal  place, 
this  jolly  Hollywood, 
where  the  sun  always 
shines  and  fame  is 
given  and  snatched 
away  between  breaths 


By    Kay    Evans 


It  is  not,  really,  the  producers  who  are  heartless 
brutes.  It  is  the  town  itself.  It  is  the  form  of  the 
fourth  largest  industry.  Other  businesses  are  not  so 
personal.  The  films  deal  with  emotions  and  hopes  and 
dreams  instead  of  buttons  or  linoleum  or  automobile 
accessories. 


E 


FOUR  men  sat  at  a  bridge  table.     "  Three  spades,"  said 
the  first.     "  Pass,"  said  the  second. 
The  third  looked  up.     "By  the  way,  Mabel  Doakes' 
contract  is  up  at  my  shop.     I'm  not  renewing.     She's 
a  bad  actress.    She  cost  me  a  lot  of  money.    Pass." 

"Thanks  for  the  tip,"  said  the  fourth.  "I  was  going  to  sign 
her  for  a  part  in  our  new  vehicle.    Four  diamonds." 

They  were  four  of  the  biggest  executives  in  Hollywood.  Each 
controlled  the  destiny  of  one  of  the  major  studios  and  there, 
over  a  bridge  table,  they  had  put  the  professional  finger  on  the 
mythical  Mabel  Doakes.  She  may  or  may  not  have  been  a  bad 
actress.  She  may  or  may  not  have  cost  the  producer  a  lot  of 
money.  But  the  executives  did  not  stop  to  ask  for  motives. 
She  was  doomed.    It  was  enough. 

It  is  done  like  that  in  Hollywood,  the  cruelest  town  in  the 
world.  As  finally,  as  brutally,  as  that.  And  Mabel's  heart- 
aches, her  sleepless  nights,  her  pitiful  alibis  to  her  friends — 
these  are  but  the  tiny  threads  of  suffering  in  the  merciless 
pattern  of  Hollywood. 


F  the  president  of  a  soap  factory  makes  a  mistake  it 
costs  him  merely  a  million  cold  dollars,  perhaps.  If  a 
picture  executive  uses  a  little  bad  judgment  he  not  only 
sacrifices  his  money  but  the  hearts  of  dozens  of  people 
as  well.  It  is  this,  this  distinctly  personal,  emotional 
element,  that  makes  Hollywood  as  brutal  as  a  black 
snake  whip. 

A  girl  named  Lucille  Powers  fought  her  way  along  the 
perilous  path  that  the  extras  tread.  At  last  came  her 
big  chance,  the  chance  she'd  been  waiting  for  all  those 
months.  She  was  given  the  leading  woman's  role  in 
"Billy  the  Kid,"  a  big  special  picture. 

It  was  filmed.  She  did  good  work.  But  when  it  was 
put  together  and  the  powers  that  be  looked  at  it  in  its 
rough  state  they  found  that  she  was  not  mature  enough 
for  the  part,  not  yet  wise  enough  in  all  the  tricks  of  the 
camera.  It  was  nobody's  fault.  Heaven  knows,  the 
producers  would  have  prevented  such  a  catastrophe  to 
their  pocketbooks  if  they  could. 

Lucille  was  replaced  by  Kay  Johnson.  The  ex- 
ecutives were  out  a  good  deal  of  money.  And  Lucille  suffered 
that  deep  seated  heartache  of  the  ambitious  person  who  has 
tasted  the  first  sweetness  of  success,  only  to  have  the  cup 
snatched  away. 

And  there  have  been  others — so  many,  many  others.  Do  you 
remember  the  story  of  Dorothy  Sebastian  and  the  leading  role 
in  John  Barrymore's  picture,  "The  Tempest"?  I  shall  never 
forget  the  day  she  got  it.  "It's  going  to  make  me  a  star!"  she 
said  earnestly,  her  eyes  swimming  with  grateful  tears. 

She  played  in  the  picture  for  five  weeks  and  did  the  best  work 
of  her  career  when  Director  Tour  jansky  (a  Russian  who  had  just 
had  his  first  big  American  break)  was  taken  off  the  picture  and 
another  director  put  on.  Just  at  that  moment  Camilla  Horn 
arrived  from  Germany  and  the  studio  wanted  to  give  her  every 
advantage.  So  she  replaced  Dorothy,  who  had  said,  "  This  part 
will  make  a  star  of  me." 

The  fate  of  some  of  the  foreign  importations  is  woven  into 
the  tragic  history  of  Hollywood.  Perhaps  nothing  was  so 
cruel  as  the  bringing  to  this  country  of  Eva  Von  Berne,  an 


Hollywood   Cruelties 


The  part  opposite  John  Mack  Brown  in  "Billy  the 
Kid,J  was  to  make  Lucille  Powers  a  big  leading 
woman.  Here  she  is  in  a  scene  with  John.  But 
they  decided  she  was  too  inexperienced,  and 
Kay  Johnson,  in  circle,  finally  played  it 


inexperienced  Austrian  child. 
Young,  eager,  breathless  with 
excitement,  she  arrived  to 
have  her  little  taste  of  fame 
and  glory — a  lead  in  a  Jack 
Gilbert  starring  vehicle. 

Those  were  halcyon,  brightly  colored  days  for  Eva  that  be- 
came clouded  with  gray  when  she  was  found  to  be  too  plump 
for  American  beauty  standards.    She  was  shipped  back  home 

THE  hundreds  who  suffered  when  the  microphone  came  into 
vogue;  the  dozens  who  had  to  give  up  their  careers  because 
they  grew  too  fat  for  the  two-dimensional  camera ;  the  great  stars 
whose  popularity  wanes  with  the  years;  those  vital  actors  who 
can  be  accepted  no  longer  because  of  telltale  wrinkles  under  the 
eyes  and  sagging  muscles  at  the  throat — these  are  but  some  of 
the  heart  throbs  that  are  known  to  Hollywood. 

Nor  are  the  directors  immune.  I  remember,  one  day,  seeing 
King  Vidor  walk  off  his  set  after  a  day's  work  with  the  tears 
standing  in  his  eyes. 

It  had  happened  like  this.  He  had  made  what  he  thought  was 
a  perfect  picture,  "The  Crowd."  It  was  life.  It  was  realism. 
But  the  producers  were  afraid  of  that  very  realism,  that  raw 
beauty.  They  had  asked  him  to  make  a  "tag,"  which  is  a 
substitute  half  reel  or  so  for  the  end  of  a  picture.  In  this  "tag" 
King  shot  a  banal  happy  ending.  He  must  have  his  wretched 
characters  suddenly  become  rich  and  happy. 

King  Vidor  is  an  artist.  The  making  of  that  final  half  reel 
cost  him  something  infinitely  precious.  As  it  happened,  this 
"tag"  was  not  used.  A  better  one,  that  satisfied  everybody  to 
some  extent,  was  at  last  made. 

Clarence  Brown  was  forced  to  make  the  same  gesture  when 
he  directed  "Flesh  and  the  Devil."  The — to  him — odious 
happy  ending  was  filmed  for  release  in  the  smaller  towns. 

A  mistake  that  cost  a  producer  a  neat  $300,000  and  plenty  of 
heartache  to  all  concerned  occurred  when  the  genius  Maeter- 
linck was  brought  to  this  country  to  supervise  the  making  of 
his  immortal  "The  Blue  Bird."  the  picture  was  a  failure.  Its 
beauty  did  not  register.  Maeterlinck  left,  to  ponder  on  the 
strange  ways  of  the  movies. 

Perhaps  no  more  bewildered  writer  than  the  late  William  J. 
Locke  ever  came  to  Hollywood.    The  author  of  "The  Beloved 


Vagabond"  dis- 
covered that  his 
great  talent  had  no 
place  in  the  studios. 
With  the  loud 
trumpets  of  press 
agents  and  the  usual 
hullabaloo  that  ac- 
companies a  visiting  celebrity,  Max  Reinhardt,  one  of  the 
greatest  minds  in  the  theater  in  Europe,  was  brought  to  this 
country. 


I 


T  was  his  task  to  direct  Lillian  Gish  in  "The  Miracle."  He 
was  a  god  in  Europe,  a  failure  in  Hollywood.  Somehow  he 
could  not  adjust  his  ideas  to  the  requirements  of  pictures.  For 
months  they  worked  to  find  something  suitable  for  him.  He 
returned,  at  last,  minus  the  trumpets.  The  same  tragic  fate 
seems  to  be  the  lot  of  the  Russian  director,  Eisenstein. 

Mind  you,  these  people  may  go  home.  They  may  go  back  to 
occupy  the  same  positions  they  held  before.  But  there  is  sorne- 
thing  devastating  about  failure,  as  far  as  an  artist  is  concerned. 

One  of  the  most  merciless  circumstances  took  place  during  the 
filming  of  that  exciting,  amusing  picture,  "In  Old  Arizona." 

Maria  Alba  was  given  the  woman's  lead  in  the  film  because  of 
her  excellent  histrionic  ability  and  her  natural  Spanish  accent. 
Delighted,  she  helped  design  her  own  costumes  and  evolved  a 
fascinating  way  of  wearing  her  hair.  The  company  worked  for 
two  weeks  when  it  was  discovered  that  Maria's  natural  Spanish 
accent  was  not  understandable  on  the  sound  track.  So  Dorothy 
Burgess,  an  American  girl,  was  given  her  role. 

It  was  Maria's  assignment  to  coach  Dorothy  in  the  accent,  to 
dress  her  hair  and  to  sit  on  the  set  watching  her  play  the  role 
she  loved,  while  she  showed  her  correct  Spanish  mannerisms. 

There  is  no  helping  all  this.  For  mistakes  are  bound  to 
be  made.  And  each  one  spells  the  suffering  of  dozens  of 
hearts! 

77 


Sally  Eilers  was  in 
pictures  four  years, 
played  twenty  roles, 
and  was  a  Wampas 
Baby  Star  before  she 
was  given  her  big 
chance  in  "Bad  Girl" 


She  couldn't  get 
extra  work,  but  when 
Carole  Lombard 
brought  her  to  Mack 
Sennett,  she  was  in  a 
big  part  with  Carole 
ten  minutes  later 


Sally's  Not  A  "Bad  Girl 


5? 


WHEN  Sally  Eilers 
plaved  in  "The  Good- 
Bye  Kiss,"  Mack 
Sennett  said  she  was  the  best  bet  in  pictures.  It 
was  three  years  later  that  she  was  given  a  long-term  contract 
by  Fox.  In  1930,  Ziegfeld  declared  she  was  the  most  beautiful 
brunette  in  California,  but  not  until  she  made  "Bad  Girl"  did 
six  directors  ask  for  her  at  once,  and  three  studios  try  to 
borrow  her  from  her  own  lot. 

She  is  married  to  Hoot  Gibson  and  much  in  love  with  him. 
Thinks  he  is  the  most  distinguished-looking  man  in  California 
in  evening  dress  and  handsome  enough  for  anybody  in  his 
riding  togs. 

The  only  time  she  gets  angry  with  him  is  when  he  is  dressed 
first  and  hurries  her  by  saying  "come  on."  Then  she  wants 
to  throw  something  at  him. 

The  only  time  "Hooter"  ever  got  mad  at  her  was  when  she 
went  "blonde"  for  her  last  picture.  He  wouldn't  speak  to  her 
for  two  days. 

Sally  loves  children  and  takes  care  of  Hoot's  little  girl. 
Hopes  to  have  children  of  her  own  later.  This  is  her  first 
marriage,  though  she  was  once  engaged  to  Matty  Kemp  and 
later  to  William  Hawks.  Thinks  every  woman  can  act  better 
when  she  knows  about  life.  Therefore  advises  all  girls  to  get 
married,  but  only  after  an  engagement  of  at  least  six  months. 

Loves  associating  with  men  and  women  of  intelligence. 
Likes  to  keep  her  own  individuality  and  make  her  own  money, 
but  is  not  a  "Lucy  Stoner."  Has  a  fine  sense  of  loyalty  and 
fairness;  a  great  sense  of  humor  and  love  of  fun.  Likes  playing 
jokes  on  her  friends  and  will  take  one,  too.  Has  many  super- 
stitions and  never  stays  alone  at  night.  Despises  vicious 
gossip  but  loves  "dishing  the  dirt"  if  no  one  is  hurt. 

A  MEAL  to  her  is  a  quick  route  to  the  dessert.  Her  favor- 
ite dish  is  peppermint  ice  cream  with  chocolate  sauce.  She 
can  eat  anything  without  increasing  her  weight,  much  to  the 
chagrin  of  the  other  girls. 

Blue  is  her  favorite  color.  She  wears  it  a  lot.  Wears  clothes 
well,  designs  many  of  them,  but  does  no  sewing.  Likes  tailored 
clothes  best.  For  evening,  prefers  velvet.  Has  light  brown 
hair,  beautiful  brown  eyes,  weight  one  hundred  nine  pounds. 

78 


By  Maude  Lathem 


Rides  a  horse  well,  pilots  a  plane 

perfectly.    Doesn't  talk  about  her 

golf  score,  but  plays  a  fast  game 

Would  rather  dance  than  eat,  but  will  swim  if  you 


of  tennis, 
prefer. 

Has  a  poor  memory  for  faces  and  has  to  meet  people  several 
times  before  she  remembers  them  well. 

Among  her  close  friends  are  Bebe  Daniels,  Marian  Nixon, 
Joan  Bennett  and  Marion  Davies.  She  has  all  the  buoyance  of 
youth,  with  an  amiable  temperament,  willing  to  meet  people  at 
least  halfway. 

If  they  don't  like  her  then,  it's  just  too  bad. 

All  classes  of  men  are  attracted  to  her.  They  love  her 
beauty  and  bright  repartee. 

BEFORE  she  was  married  she  lived  at  home  with  her  mother 
and  father.  Her  father  insisted  that  she  be  in  from  dates 
at  a  certain  hour.    Her  mother  usually  sat  up  for  her. 

Yet  she  was,  at  this  time,  a  leading  woman,  earning  a  good- 
sized  pay  check. 

She  was  one  of  the  most  popular  Hollywood  debs  and  is  now 
a  popular  matron.  Belongs  to  several  clubs.  Entertains  a 
good  deal.  One  of  the  favorite  methods  of  entertaining  is 
giving  barbecues  at  Hoot's  ranch. 

Friends  drive  the  forty  miles  from  Hollywood,  arriving 
about  two  in  the  afternoon  and  staying  until  they  get  ready 
to  go  home. 

There's  always  grand  food,  cooked  outdoors  before  your 
eyes. 

Weekends  are  usually  spent  at  Hoot's  cabin  in  the  moun- 
tains, although  they  always  have  loads  of  invitations  from 
their  friends  for  weekend  parties.  She  and  her  husband  fell 
in  love  with  each  other  while  Sally  was  playing  leading  woman 
in  one  of  his  pictures. 

They  thought  it  would  be  a  grand  idea  if  she'd  be  his 
permanent  and  personal  leading  woman. 

She  loves  to  play  bridge  and  usually  lunches  with  a  different 
girl  friend  every  day  she  isn't  working.  She's  the  type  of 
person  in  whom  people  are  always  confiding.  Maybe  that's 
because  she  looks  sympathetic. 

Hollywood  has  pronounced  our  "Bad  Girl"  good! 


H  0  L  LY  H  0  0 


[Reg.  U.S.  Pat.  Off.  1 


You   Can't   Fool   A   Horse-Fly 


Speed  Queen — 
Blanche  Tweet 
crossing  the  finish 
line  at  Daytona 
Beach.  Experts 
declare  that  she 
never  would  have 
won  this  thrilling 
race  is  she  hadn't 
taken  the  bonnet 
off  the  car  and  put 
it  on  her  head 


"Putting  on  weight,  ain't  you,  Mr.  Menjou?" 


"In  this  big,  vast 
movie  industry  of 
ours,  we  mustn't  for- 
get the  dear  little 
kiddies;  there's  mil- 
lions in  it!" 


The  Latest  Thing  Ingagi- — This  exclusive  photo  of 
the  Marquise  de  la  Malaise  was  taken  just  after 
she  won  her  third  consecutive  tree  sitting  con- 
test. Note  the  hands,  extended  in  the  proper 
position  for  landing.  Note  also  the  streamline 
body.  Note  the  string  of  croix  de  guerre  on  the 
head.    Note  anything  you  want 


Seemore,  Our  Qut-of-Fashion  Expert, 


The  Bull's  Eye — 
And  one  hundred 
per  cent  bullet 
proof,  too.  Those 
things  sticking  out 
of  the  lady's  head 
are  spears  thrown 
by  African  savages. 
Absolutely  no  harm 
was  done  to  the 
lady,  as  you  can  see 
by  the  unruffled  ex- 
pression on  her  face 


The  Crow's  Nest — A 
headgear  designed  for 
ladies  who  are  fond  of 
pets.  Dogs,  cats,  rab- 
bits, canaries,  marmo- 
sets, parrots  —  almost 
any  small  animal  can  be 
carried  in  it  with  com- 
fort and  safety.  We  ad- 
vise you  not  to  try  gold- 
fish, however.  The  lady 
in  this  illustration  did, 
and  they  ate  up  all  the 
lining.    The  ingrates! 


The  Hollywood  Bowl — 
This  smart  creation 
serves  the  double  capac- 
ity of  style  and  utility. 
Made  of  solid  oak  and 
trimmed  with  re-en- 
forced concrete,  you  can 
break  beer  bottles  over 
it  without  causing  any 
discomfort  to  the  owner. 
The  lady  in  the  picture  is 
about  to  sock  someone. 
Look,  she  is  putting  on 
her  brass  knuckles,  too ! 


The  Ocean  Spray — 
A  practical,  yet 
fetching  hat  for 
yachting,  surf  bath- 
ing, or  other  rough 
water  sports.  The 
tulle  which  you  see 
floating  off  into 
space  can  be  worn 
in  a  pile  at  the  top 
or  let  down  over  the 
face,  depending  on 
the  weather.  Also, 
it  can  be  taken  off 
entirely,  but  you 
will  need  a  crew  in 
order  to  do  that 


The  Stop-Go  Hat— Invented  by  Gloria 
Swanson  years  ago.  A  very  useful,  in  fact 
indispensable,  article  for  motoring.  The 
furry  growth  on  the  top  conceals  a  peri- 
scope which  enables  the  driver  to  see 
where  he's  going  and  where  he's  been. 
For  night  driving  the  periscope  is  equipped 
with  a  red  and  green  light,  making  you 
practically  your  own  traffic  cop 


80 


Rummages  In  Photoplay's  Old  Files 


Ready,  Ta\e  Aim,  Thrust! — This  unique  parasol  is  known 

as  the  "Don't  touch  me,  Sir!"     Here  Miss  Wanson  is 

shown  demonstrating  it  on  a  studio  electrician  who  walked 

into  her  dressing-room  without  knocking 


Vacation  Time — Going  South 
this  winter?  You  will  need 
your  beach  pajamas,  and  here 
they  are !  Absolutely  the  last 
word  in  lounging  comfort. 
Smart,  easy  to  slip  on  or  off, 
they  suggest  the  woman  of 
today  more  nearly  than  any- 
thing else.  Here  you  see 
Dorothy  Gish  with  pail  and 
shovel,  on  her  way  to  dig  in 
the  sand 


Keep  the  Home 
Fires  Burning — A 
very  useful  trinket 
for  Hollywood  win- 
ter nights.  The 
bracelet  around  the 
lady's  leg  contains 
a  bellows.  It  will 
start  up  a  fire  in  no 
time, and  it's  always 
easy  to  get  at.  Also 
can  be  used  as  a 
flask  at  night  clubs 
or  dinner  parties. 
The  lady  here  is  on 
her  way  out  now, 
but  whither  is  she 
going?  we  ask 


The  Kick-in — Popular  among  football 
players,  but  equally  correct  in  the 
boudoir.  The  toes  are  designed  from 
an  old  Chippendale  model  and  are  fin- 
ished in  bird's  eye  maple.  Buckles  by 
the  American  Locomotive  Company 

81 


"Between  you  and  me,  professor,  do  you  really 

think  that  Doug  and  Joan  are  going  to  have  an — 

er — addition  to  the  family?" 


The  inventor  of  Slow  Motion  Pictures  plays 
bridge 


"So  that's  the  stuff 

that  dreams  are 

made  of" 


ThisDrawingby 

Norman 
Anthony 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


Young    ana    lovely,    her   frank  good    sense 
points    tne   way   to    beauty  for   every  woman 


YOU  catch  a  glimpse  of  her  over  intent 
masculine  shoulders,  at  Belmont  Park 
races  ...  at  country  house  parties  in  Long 
Island  or  Westchester  .  .  .  dancing  at  the 
most  exclusive  night  clubs. 

Yet  she  is  as  popular  with  women  as 
with  men — young  Mrs.  Morgan  Belmont, 
with  her  lovely  laughing  eyes,  her  red- 
gold  hair,  her  dazzlingly  fair  complexion. 
To  a  host  of  friends  she  is  "Maggie." 

Beauty  .  .  .  and  brains!  The  gay  wit 
that  sparkles  in  her  ready  repartee  is  kin 
to  the  unerring  taste  that  guides  her  strik- 
ing individuality  in  dress.  And  to  the 
forthright  good  sense  with  which  she  es- 
chews fads  and  frills  of  beauty  care  and 
will  have  nothing  but  the  simplest  care 
for  the  flawless  radiance  of  her  skin. 

"/COMPLICATED  beauty  preparations" 

\^  she  calls  "needless  extravagance". . . 

"The   Pond's  Method  keeps  one's  skin 

fresh  and  clear,  in  less  time,  at  less  cost." 

Follow  its  four  steps,  and  you'll  agree: 

1 — Amply  apply  Pond's  Cold  Cream  for  pore- 
deep  cleansing,  several  times  daily,  always  after 
exposure.  Let  the  fine  oils  sink  into  the  pores 
and  float  all  the  clogged  dirt,  powder  and  make- 
up to  the  surface.  At  bedtime,  never  fail  to  repeat 
this  all-important  cleansing  to  remove  the  day's 
accumulation  of  dust  and  grime. 

2 — Wipe  away  with  Pond's  Cleansing  Tissues, 
softer,  more  absorbent.  White  or  peach. 

3 — With  Pond's  Skin  Freshener  pat  cleansed  skin 
briskly  to  brace  and  tone,  banish  oiliness,  close 
and  refine  pores,  promote  a  lovely  natural  color. 

4 — Smooth  on  Pond's  Vanishing  Cream  always 
before  you  powder,  to  make  the  powder  go  on 
more  evenly  and  last  longer.  This  disguises  any 
little  blemishes  in  your  skin  and  gives  a  smooth 
and  velvety  finish.  Use  this  exquisite  Vanishing 
Cream  not  only  on  your  face  but  wherever  you 
powder — neck,  shoulders,  arms  . . .  And  it  is  mar- 
velous to  keep  your  hands  soft  and  white! 


"For  practical  home  beauty  care,"  Mrs. 
Morgan  Belmont  says,  "Pond's  Method 
carries  off  all  honors" .  .  .  See  Poncf  s  four 
famous  preparations,  which  she  uses  for  the 
care  of  her  dazzlingly  fair  shin,  at  right. 


Tune  in  on  Pond's  program  every  Friday  evening 
9:30  P.M.,  E.S.T.  Leo  Reisman  and  his  Orchestra. 
WEAF  and  N.B.C.  Network. 


Send  10(f  for  Pond's  Four  Preparations 

POND'S  EXTRACT  COMPANY,  DEPT.  Z.  1  14    HUDSON  STREET,  NEW  TORE 


Copyright,  1031,  Pond's  Eitract  Company 


84 


Nance  O'Neil  in  her  first  stage 
appearance  at  the  Alcazar  Theatre 
in  San  Francisco. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 

Nance  O'Neil  at  the  time  of  her  first  ap- 
pearance on  Broadway,  when  she  scored  an 
overnight  triumph  that  swept  New  York. 


Nance  O'Neil  as  "LADY  TEAZLE* 
in  the  School  for  Scandal. 


m  over  z-lq  i  says 

Nance  o'Neil 


Famous  Stage  and  Screen 

Star  tells  the  Secret  of 

keeping  Youthful  Charm 

"T'M  over  45 — you  see  I  admit  so 
X  much, "says  Nance  O'Neil. "Per- 
haps I  should  admit  more,  but  it  is 
said  that  a  woman  is  as  old  as  she 
looks,  and  a  man  as  old  as  he  feels. 

"One  of  these  photographs  of  me 
was  made  last  summer.  The  others 
were  taken  along  the  way  from  the 
time  I  started  in  the  theatre. 

"For  my  part,  I  don't  think  any- 


one, especially  women,  should  tag 
themselves  with  dates,  and  I  believe 
the  world  in  general  would  be  hap- 
pier and  better  if  birthdays  were 
never  recorded,  for  as  time  goes  on 
it  cannot  but  bring  with  it  a  sense 
of  limitation  which  I  am  sure  we  all 
want  to  be  free  from. 

"Constructive  thought  and  care 
of  the  skin  are  certainly  two  things 
that  always  help  one  to  escape  the 
marks  of  time. 

"Any  woman  who  knows  how 
to  keep  her  complexion  youthful 
can  be  charming  at  any  age. 

"  Stage  and  screen  stars  know  that 


a  skin  softly  smooth  and  aglow  al- 
ways has  appeal.  Several  years  ago 
I  discovered  that  regular  care  with 
Lux  Toilet  Soap  would  do  wonders 
for  my  skin,  and  now  I  am  among 
the  scores  of  stage  and  screen  stars 
who  use  it  regularly." 

Hollywood's  favorite 
Complexion  Care 

Of  the  613  important  Hollywood 
actresses,  including  all  stars,  605 
heartily  agree  with  this  beautiful 
star!  So  devoted  are  they  to  this 
fragrant  white  soap  that  it  is  offi- 
cial in  all  the  great  film  studios! 


Lux  Toilet  Soap 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


85 


Nance  O'Neil  as  "RAIMUNDA"  in  The 
Passion  Flower.  This  role  was  one  of 
Miss  O'Neil's  greatest  successes. 


Nance  O'Neil 

Who  would  dream,  looking  at 
this  recent  photograph,  that 
Nance  O'Neil  is  over  45!  With 
so  many  stage  successes  behind 
her,  she  is  today  a  popular 
screen  favorite,  still  radiantly 
charming  as  when  she  first  ap- 
peared behind  the  footlights. 
"Stage  and  screen  stars  must 
guard  complexion  beauty  above 
everything  else,"  she  says.  "It's 
youth  that  wins  hearts!" 


oho 


g  With  M 


pping  yy itu  itrarian 

in  Iiew  York 

Here  are  three  of  the  smart  things 
Marian  Marsh  brought  back  home 


~¥, 


How  to  achieve  glamour  in  one 
lesson!  Wear  a  dress  like  this. 
It  has  it — from  its  lacy  black 
bodice  to  its  gleaming  cire  satin 
hem.  Marian  says  it's  for  those 
late  afternoon  or  early  evening 
formalities.  Designed  by  Sally 
Milgrim 


If  you  are  slim  you  can  dare  red 
and  white  horizontal  stripes  like 
these — if  not,  beware !  The  blouse 
is  hand-knitted,  the  skirt  of  red 
tweed.     From  Jay-Thorpe 


"Oh  Marian  —  it's  gorgeous!" 
That's  what  her  Hollywood  friends 
will  say  about  this  black  and 
white  satin  dream.  Note  the 
Greek  feeling  this  has  with  its 
peplum  and  shirred  bodice.  Slip- 
pers of  white  and  gold  metal 
cloth.     From  Hickson 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


More  Beauty  for  your  Teeth- 
More  Money  for  your  Budget 

—with  this  extraordinary  toothpaste 


Buy  6  dozen  eggs 
with  the  money  you  save 

There  are  many  things  which  you  can  buy 
with  the  #3  a  year  each  member  of  your  family 
saves  on  tooth  paste.  But  very  few  will  do  you 
and  your  children  as  much  good  as  eggs — espe- 
cially in  these  winter  months.  Eggs  are  a  valu- 
able source  of  vitamins  "a"  and  "  b."  They 
also  supply  lecithin,  important  in  nourishing 
the  nerves  and  aiding  growth.  Remember,  eggs 
are  always  part  of  the  diet  which  doctors  pre- 
scribe during  convalescence  to  bring  back 
health  and  energy. 


Listerine  Tcoth  Paste  costs  only  250 
a  tube.  Yet  its  cleansing  and  polish- 
ing power,  plus  safety,  are  unsur- 
passed —  even  by  imported  tooth 
pastes,  costing  75^  a  tube. 

It  is  entirely  free  from  coarseness 
and  grit.  It  cannot  scratch  even  a 
baby's  tooth  enamel.  And  it  con- 
tains, in  addition  to  all  the  usual 
cleansing  elements  of  value — an  as- 
tonishingly effective,  special  polish- 
ing agent. 

Our  methods  cut  costs  for  you 
with  no  loss  of  quality 

Though  Listerine  Tooth  Paste  is  only 
a  youngster  in  the  tooth  paste  field 
— it  is  the  biggest,  most  vigorous 
youngster  ever  seen.  Over  four  mil- 
lion people  have  switched  to  it  in 
nine  years — and  have  kept  on  using 
it  constantly.  This  demand  calls  for 
production  on  a  huge,  cost-cutting 
scale.  You  benefit  by  these  savings. 


Try  it!   Learn  how  white 
your  teeth  really  are 

Your  teeth  benefit  as  much  as  your 
pocketbook.  Economy  alone  could 
not  have  won  and  kept  so  many  users 
—  particularly  millions  of  women, 
who  prize  the  beauty  of  their  teeth. 

The  special  polishing  agent  chars 
away  every  particle  of  dirt  and  de- 
cay. Tartar,  tobacco-stains,  other 
discolorations — vanish  without  hav- 
ing a  trace.  Yet  it  is  scientifically 
gentle  in  action  and  therefore  cannot 
injure  tooth  enamel. 

Besides,  it  leaves  a  remarkably 
fresh  and  invigoratingafter-taste.  Your 
mouth  is  clean — and  feels  clean,  too. 

Give  this  tooth  paste  a  trial.  After 
that,  we  know  you  will  keep  on  using 
it.  Its  economy,  refreshing  taste,  and 
safe  cleansing  power  will  guarantee 
that.  Lambert  Pharmacal  Co.,  St. 
Louis,  Mo. 


LISTERINE    TOOTH    PASTE  .  25* 


A 


SK   THE 


A 


NSWER 


M 


AN 


WHAT  A  RACE!  And  the  newcomers 
are  on  top.  Jimmie  Dunn,  Miriam 
Hopkins,  Leslie  Howard  and  Minna 
Gombell,  all  from  the  stage,  have  given  such 
fine  performances  in  the  talkies  that  the  fans 
are  writing  in  droves  asking  for  information 
about  them.  This  month  it  was  a  neck  and 
neck  race  between  these  four  stars. 

Jimmie  Dunn,  the  lad  who  made  such  a  hit 
in  "Bad  Girl,"  was  born  in  New  York  City, 
Nov.  2,  1905.  His  father  was  a  stock  broker. 
After  leaving  school,  Jimmie  spent  three  years 
in  his  father's  employ  and  then  deserted  him 
for  the  stage.  His  first  engagement  was  in 
"Nightstick,"  which  was  later  made  into  the 
movie  "Alibi,"  with  Chester  Morris  in  the  lead. 
Jimmie  played  in  stock  for  some  time  and  then 
in  "Sweet  Adeline"  with  Helen  Morgan. 

His  picture  experience  was  confined  to  extra 
roles  and  a  few  bits  in  short  subjects  made  in 
the  New  York  studios.  Fox  gave  him  a  con- 
tract in  May  of  this  year  and  rushed  him  out 
to  the  Coast  for  the  lead  in  "  Bad  Girl." 

His  hobby  is  collecting  bright-colored  neck- 
ties. Pastimes  include  golf,  swimming  and 
tennis.  Hates  to  comb  his  hair.  Is  unmarried 
at  this  writing.  Jimmie's  next  picture  will  be 
"  Over  the  Hill."  He  recently  finished  work  in 
"Sob  Sister." 

Miriam  Hopkins  is  slated  for  stardom.  She 
is  from  the  South — Savannah,  Ga.,  to  be  exact. 
She  was  born  Oct.  18,  1902.  Has  silver-blonde 
hair  and  gray-blue  eyes.  Appeared  on  the 
stage  in  "Little  Jesse  James,"  "The  Home 
Towners,"  and  "An  American  Tragedy," 
among  other  plays.  She  entered  pictures  in 
1930,  appearing  in  "Fast  and  Loose,"  "The 
Smiling  Lieutenant"  and  "24  Hours."  Her 
next  will  be  "Dr.  Jekyll  and  Mr.  Hyde"  in 
which  she  plays  opposite  Fredric  March.  She 
is  separated  from  her  husband,  Austin  Parker. 

Leslie  Howard  came  to  us  via  London,  Eng- 
land, where  he  was  born  in  April,  1893.  His 
real  name  is  Leslie  Stainer  and  he  is  married 
and  has  two  children.  Leslie  was  a  prominent 
stage  actor  before  the  talkies  claimed  him.  He 
appeared  with  the  late  Jeanne  Eagels  in  "Her 
Cardboard  Lover,"  and  in  "Escape"  and 
"Berkeley  Square."  He  also  authored  and 
appeared  in  a  play  titled  "Murray  Hill." 

He  entered  pictures  last  year,  appearing  in 
"Outward  Bound,"  which  was  followed  by 
"  Never  the  Twain  Shall  Meet,"  "A  Free  Soul," 
"  Five  and  Ten,"  and  his  latest  success, 
"Devotion."      At   this   writing   Leslie   is   in 


Read  This  Before  As\ing  Questions 

Avoid  questions  that  call  for  unduly  long  an- 
swers, such  as  synopses  of  plays.  Do  not  inquire 
concerning  religion,  scenario  writing,  or  studio  em- 
ployment. Write  on  only  one  side  of  the  paper. 
Sign  your  full  name  and  address.  If  you  want  a 
personal  reply,  enclose  a  stamped,  self-addressed 
envelope. 

Casts  and  Addresses 

As  these  take  up  much  space,  we  treat  such  sub- 
jects in  a  different  way  from  other  questions.  For 
this  kind  of  information,  a  stamped,  self-addressed 
envelope  must  always  be  sent.  Address  all  inquiries 
to  Questions  and  Answers,  Photoplay  Magazine, 
22i  W  57th  St.,  New  York  City. 


Europe  enjoying  a  well-earned  vacation.  He 
has  had  offers  to  return  and  make  more 
pictures,  but  he  says  that  working  in  one 
picture  after  another  is  too  strenuous. 

Minna  Gombell  made  her  movie  debut  in 
"Doctors'  Wives."  Then  they  made  her  voice 
instructor  for  the  screen  players  who  had  had 
no  stage  experience.  Back  on  the  screen  she 
clicked  in  "Bad  Girl."  Minna  hails  from 
Baltimore.  She  left  school  when  she  was  about 
fifteen  years  old  to  go  on  the  stage.  Played 
very  small  parts  at  first.  Later  starred  on 
Broadway  in  "Nancy's  Private  Affair,"  "The 
Great  Power,"  and  "Jimmie's  Women."  Her 
current  picture  is  "Sob  Sister."  Minna  likes 
to  travel;  admits  she  can  sew  and  cook;  is  very 
superstitious.  She  is  still  single 
*     *     * 

Eleanor  G.  Gregory,  Tabor,  Iowa. — Yes, 
Eleanor,  the  Four  Marxes  are  really  brothers. 
Some  years  ago  they  were  touring  the  country 
as  the  "Four  Nightingales."  Their  act  was  a 
musical  one,  all  of  them  being  masters  of 
numerous  instruments.  Their  program  then 
consisted  of  compositions  by  Beethoven, 
Schubert,  Mozart  and  Bach.  During  one  of 
their  recitals  they  started  to  cut-up  and  they 
have  been  at  it  ever  since.  Harpo  can  talk, 
although  he  does  only  pantomime  on  the  stage 
and  screen.  Perhaps  that's  so  he  won't  have  to 
memorize  lines.  How  about  it,  Harpo? 
"Monkey  Business"  is  the  Marx  Brothers' 
latest  laugh-film. 

Betty  Taylor,  Jackson,  Mich. — That  li'l 
picture  thief,  Mitzi  Green,  was  born  Oct.  22, 
1920,  in  Flushing,  Long  Island.  She  has  chest- 
nut hair  and  light  brown  eyes.    She  is  learning 


her  Three  R's  from  teachers  at  the  Paramount 
Studios.    They  say  she  is  thai  smart. 

Evelyn  Hamilton,  Rogers,  Ark. — Evelyn, 
the  song  that  Claudette  Colbert  taught  Miriam 
Hopkins  in  "The  Smiling  Lieutenant"  was 
called  "Jazz  Up  Your  Lingerie."  Am  I 
blushing ! 

Barbara  Lyon,  Yonkers,  N.  Y. — Did  you 
know  that  you  are  tagged  with  the  same  name 
as  the  new  daughter  at  the  Bebe  Daniels-Ben 
Lyon  mansion?  She  is  Barbara,  too.  Frank 
Albertson  is  married  to  Virginia  Shelly,  and 
David  Manners'  missus  is  Suzanne  Bushnell. 
Dorothy  Jordan  is  going  places  with  Donald 
Dillaway,  the  young  chap  she  married  in  "Min 
and  Bill."  Maybe  they  intend  to  make  it  the 
real  thing  now. 

Ruth  Dixon,  Chicago,  III. — No,  Ruthie, 
you  haven't  discovered  a  newcomer.  The 
young  lady  you  saw  in  "  The  Good  Bad  Girl " 
was  Mae  Clarke  and  she  has  been  in  pictures 
since  1929.  Mae  was  born  in  Philadelphia, 
Aug.  16,  1910.  She  is  5  feet,  4;  weighs  112  and 
has  light  hair  and  brown  eyes.  She  is  divorced 
from  Lew  Brice,  brother  of  the  famous  Fanny. 
Mae's  latest  picture  is  "Waterloo  Bridge." 

Virginia  Halle  well,  Belle  vtje,  Penna.— 
The  little  picture  you  sent  me  was  a  shot  taken 
during  the  filming  of  "A  Woman  of  Affairs." 
The  two  ladies  appearing  before  the  cameras 
were  Greta  Garbo  and  Dorothy  Sebastian. 
Imagine  you  not  recognizing  Greta! 

Evelyn  Hallock,  Riverhead,  L.  I. — The 
title  of  this  ditty  should  be  "Aliases  of  an 
Actress."  In  her  short  life  of  eighteen  years 
Marian  Marsh  has  had  three  names.  She  was 
christened  Violet  Krauth.  When  she  broke 
into  pictures  early  in  1930  she  took  the  name  of 
Marilyn  Morgan  and  appeared  in  a  small  role 
in  "Whoopee." 

When  John  Barrymore  selected  her  for 
Trilby  in  "Svengali,"  Warners  thought  her 
name  sounded  too  much  like  Marilyn  Miller's 
so  they  changed  it  to  Marian  Marsh.  Prob- 
ably some  young  man  will  come  along  some  day 
and  convince  her  that  she  should  change  her 
name  to  his.    Ah  me! 

M.    C.    T.,    Washington,    D.    C— Kent 

Douglass  was  born  in  Los  Angeles,  Oct.  29, 

1908.      He  is  6  feet  tall  and  has  blond  hair  and 

hazel  eyes.    His  real  name  is  Robert  Douglass 

[  please  turn  to  page  112  ] 


She  taught  them  to 
speak 


Movies  are  too  stren- 
uous 


She's  slated  for  star- 
dom 


He  was  the  hit  of  "Bad 
Girl" 


88 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


Dusting  Powder.  Particularly  gifty 
in  plaid  metal  box  of  blue  and  coral. 
Contains  lovely  puff.  $1. 

&achet .  .  .  in  a  charming  jar,  u  a  per- 
fect selection  for  the  "  little  gilt,"  lor 
which  one  wants  something  new  and 
different.  75c 

Toilet  vvater  is  a  gift  every  woman, 
young  or  old,  appreciates  — ■  and  now 
much  more,  when  the  scent  is  Seven- 
teen!  $1.25. 

A  Compact  that  gleams  like  onyx! 
...  so  sophisticated,  thin  and  lovely. 
Single  $1,  Double  $2. 

Seventeen   Perfume   in   enchanting 
bottles    m  3   sizes.  This  is   the   tamous 
scent  created   to  inspire 
tbe  mood  of  youth  Fla- 
cons  at   $5,  $2    and  $1. 


Lets  go  Christmas  shopping 

fight  here  on  this  page 


Oeventeen  proves  your  Christmas 

giving  may  be  superb    .    .    .  wml 

costing  very  little. 


Seventeen  Face  Powder.  Toilet  Water 
and  Sachet  are  flatteringly  framed  in 
this  stunning  box  with  blaclc  and  silver 
lining.  The  price  is  no  indication  of  the 
impressiveness  of  this  gift  I        .      .     $3. 


Seventeen  Perfume 
and  the  beautiful 
Seventeen    Com- 


THIS  page  is  printed  in  plenty  of  time  to 
save  you  from  almost  all  those  hauntm 
Christmas  worries ! 

Just  look  at  these  pictures.  Read  the  de- 
scriptions, and  note  the  modest  prices.  VV  by, 
you  can  check  on  80%  of  your  entire  list, 
right  here  on  this  page! 

For  these  Seventeen  toiletries  combine  the 
usefulness  and  hint  of  luxury  that  define  the 
Perfect  Gait.  Here  are  toiletries  that  every 
■woman  uses  .  .  .  but  so  smart  and  new  .  .  . 
so  gaily  fragranced  ...  so  alluringly  packaged, 
in  graceful  jars  and  bottles! 

How  absurd  to  fuss  and  worry  over  Christmas 
shopping,  when  it  can  be  as  easy  as  this. 


pact,   that's  slim  - — v 

and  elegant  as  a  i    S 

costly  watch.  Par~  \  t 

S-*  tk  cj  eV£J2iee/2J? 


A  Bath  Set  de  luxe  .  .  . 
three  big,  luxurious  cakes 
of  Seventeen  Soap,  and 
gay  metal  box  of  Dust- 
ing Powder     .     .     .     $2 


Seventeen  Two-Tone  Face 
Powder  .  .  .  a  double  Seven- 
teen Compact — selling  regu- 
larly for  $2 — and  a  ftacon  of 
Seventeen  Perfume. .. ,$5 


9° 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


K 


and  we'll  all  come  through! 


f 


You  recognize  this  man.  He  lives  in  your 
own  town,  not  far  from  you  .  .  . 

Though  faced  with  unemployment,  he  is 
combating  adversity  with  courage.  He  has 
retreated  step  by  step,  but  fighting.  He  has 
spread  his  slender  resources  as  far  as  they 
will  go. 

This  winter  he  and  his  family  will  need 
your  help. 

There  are  many  other  heads  of  families 
much  like  him  in  the  United  States.  This 
winter  all  of  them  will  need  the  help  of  their 
more  fortunate  neighbors. 

This  is  an  emergency.  It  is  temporary. 
But  it  exists.  It  must  be  met  with  the  hope- 
fulness and  resource  typical  of  American 
conduct  in  emergencies. 

Be  ready  !  Right  now  in  every  city,  town 
and  village,  funds  are  being  gathered  for 
local  needs — through  the  established  welfare 
and  relief  agencies,  the  Community  Chest, 
or  special  Emergency  Unemployment  Com- 
mittees .  .  . 

The  usual  few  dollars  which  we  regularly 
give  will  this  year  not  be  enough.  Those  of 
us  whose  earnings  have  not  been  cut  off  can 
and  must  double,  triple,  quadruple  our  con- 
tributions. 

By  doing  so  we  shall  be  doing  the  best 
possible  service  to  ourselves.  All  that  Amer- 
ica needs  right  now  is  courage.  We  have 
the  resources.  We  have  the  man  power. 
We  have  the  opportunity  for  world  leader- 
ship. 

Let's  set  an  example  to  all  the  world. 
Let's  lay  the  foundation  for  better  days  that 
are  sure  to  come. 

The  President's  Organization  on 
Unemployment  Relief 

WALTER     S.     GIFFORD,    DIRECTOR 

Committee  on  Mobilization  of  Relief  Resources 


OWEN    D.     YOUNG,    CHAIRMAN 


The  President's  Organization  on  Unemployment  Relief  is 
non-political  and  non-sectarian.  Its  purpose  is  to  aid  ocal 
welfare  and  relief  agencies  everywhere  to  provide  for  local 
needs  All  facilities  for  the  nation-wide  program  includ- 
ing this  advertisement,  have  been  furnished  to  the  Com- 
mittee without  cost. 


Four  Famous  rilm  races 


HERE'S  a  new  kind  of  jig-saw  puzzle.    Photoplay's  art 
director  (the  temperamental  fellow!)  cut  up  the  faces  of 
four  famous  girls  of  the  screen  and  scattered  the  pieces  all 
over  this  page.    Now  he's  sorry,  and  he  wants  you  to  put  them 
together  again. 

Cut  out  the  pieces  with  a  scissors,  following  the  outlines  care- 
fully. Then  spread  out  a  fairly  large  piece  of  stiff  paper  and 
assemble  the  four  heads  on  it.  As  you  fit  piece  to  piece,  you 
may  find  it  easier  to  paste  them  down  on  the  paper. 

As  a  little  clue,  here  is  a  brief  description  of  each  girl:    One  is 


most  often  described  as  "mysterious,"  one  as  "sweet"  or 
"charming,"  one  as  "smart"  or  "clever,"  and  one  as  a 
"hoyden." 

There  are  no  awards  or  prizes  offered  for  the  completed  faces, 
except  the  fun  you'll  get  from  assembling  them.  Please  don't 
send  them  to  Photoplay. 

But  we  would  like  to  know  whether  or  not  you  like  this  new 
feature,  and  if  you  want  some  more  cut-up  faces  next  month. 
Address  your  letters  on  this  subject  to  The  Editor,  Photoplay 
Magazine,  221  West  57th  Street,  New  York  City. 

91 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  37  ] 


A  LL  sorts  of  excitement  about  Ruth  Chat- 
■**-terton  this  month.  This  is  what  was  being 
said  over  those  Brown  Derby  and  Embassy- 
coffee  cups.  That  Ruth  was  determined  to 
make  her  last  few  weeks  with  Paramount  as 
unpleasant  as  possible  for  the  studio;  that  she 
had  gone  high  hat;  that  she  refused  to  walk 
the  few  feet  from  her  dressing  room  to  the 
set,  but  must  have  a  car;  that  she  was  late 
on  the  set;  that  she  wouldn't  work  a  moment 
after  five  o'clock  and  that  she  objected  to 
Paul  Lukas  as  her  leading  man. 

So  Photoplay  sleuths  got  out  the  old  two- 
billed  hat,  the  magnifying  glass  and  the  trusty 
bloodhounds  and  found  out  the  straight  of 
the  matter. 

Every  Paramount  star  is  provided  with  a 
car  to  go  from  dressing  room  to  set,  so  that 
make-up  and  costumes  will  stay  intact.  She 
has  been  a  bit  late  once  or  twice  and  she  has 
always  stopped  work  at  five  or  five-thirty. 
She  did  object  to  Paul  Lukas,  because  she 
and  Mrs.  Lukas  who  were  once  the  best  of 


Ever  wonder  what  became  of  Wanda 
Hawley,  the  lovely  blonde  star  of  a 
decade  ago?  A  real  fan  looked  up 
from  the  cosmetics  counter  of  an 
Omaha  department  store — and  there 
was  Wanda,  selling  a  beauty  prepara- 
tion made  in  Hollywood !  Then  she 
got  into  print  with  a  kissing  act  before 
a  Southern  legislature 

92 


friends  are  having  one  of  those  girlish  tiffs  and 
Ruth,  no  doubt,  thought  that  an  "atmosphere" 
on  the  set  wouldn't  help  the  production.  She 
did,  however,  want  her  last  Paramount  picture, 
"Tomorrow  and  Tomorrow,"  to  be  a  wow. 

•"THERE  have  been  difficulties.  Paul  has 
■*-  had  trouble  learning  the  English  lines,  as 
he  always  does.    And  his  accent  bothers  him. 

But  wait  until  Ruth  gets  to  Warner  Bros. 
How's  this  for  a  few  fancy  contract  clauses? 
She  has  absolute  say-so-or-no  on  the  stories 
in  which  she  will  star.  Her  contract  includes 
not  only  herself  but  her  hairdresser  and  her 
electrician — the  one  who  knows  all  the  tricks 
about  lighting  Chatterton  and  making  her 
look  that  gorgeous  before  the  camera.  And 
her  Warner  cameraman  is  to  be  especially  in- 
structed by  her  former  Paramount  camera- 
man. 

She'll  have  Colleen  Moore's  old  bungalow 
as  her  dressing  room. 

Zowie!  Her  contract  gives  her  more  than 
any  other  star  on  the  Warner  lot. 

TJERE  is  Cliff  Edwards'  definition 
for    a    lawyer,    told    since    his 
divorce  in  which  Mrs.  Edwards  came 
out  the  money-victor! 

"A  guy  who  gets  paid  four  times  as 
much  as  you  do  for  talking  five  times 
as  much  and  saying  nothing." 

/'"''LARK  GABLE  has  become  a  second  Greta 
^*Garbo.  No,  no,  little  Oscar,  he's  not  walk- 
ing in  the  rain  and  going  mysterious  on  the 
home  folks.  It's  simply  that  he's  become  so 
popular  with  the  lads  and  lassies  who  go  to  the 
movies  that  scores  of  reporters  follow  him 
wherever  he  goes,  trying  to  get  hot  news  about 
him. 

Our  faithful  secret  service  makes  the  fol- 
lowing burning  discoveries: 

He  hates  dark  suits.  If  he  had  his  way  he'd 
wear  only  grey.  He  dislikes  tuxedos  because 
he  doesn't  dare  have  them  made  in  light 
material. 

His  one  objection  to  pictures  is  that  he 
can't  wear  grey  suits  on  the  screen. 

He  has  a  new  polo  costume  and  two  horses 
laid  by  against  the  day  when  he'll  have  a 
string. 

And — oh,  this  is  fame — a  salad  has  been 
named  for  him. 

The  Clark  Gable  salad,  on  the  M-G-M  com- 
missary menu,  consists  of  green  chicory 
chopped  with  romaine,  a  deep  covering  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  a  circle  of  slivered  beets. 
French  dressing. 

Which  reminds  me  that  the  Garbo  sandwich 
now  appears  on  the  menu,  as  well  as  Garbo 
salad.  But  you'll  be  fooled  on  the  sandwich 
because  it's  just  plain  Swiss  cheese.  The 
waitress  confided  that  Garbo  eats  imported 
Swiss  cheese  "morning,  noon  and  night." 

TANET  GAYNOR  is  making  her  first  trip  to 
•'Europe.  Husband  Lydell  Peck,  her  mother 
and  the  girl  who  dresses  her  hair  at  the  studio 
are  with  her. 

It  was  a  surprise  voyage.  She  had  planned 
on  Honolulu  with  her  mother.  When  she 
learned  she  could  have  two  months  between 
pictures  she  changed  the  tickets. 


Incidentally,  Janet  and  Charlie  Farrell  have 
both  signed  new  contracts  with  Fox.  The  old 
figure  of  $2,250  weekly  for  each  has  been  in- 
creased. 

"pVER  since  the  publication  of  Rilla  Page 
Palmborg's  book,  "The  Private  Life  of 
Greta  Garbo,"  it  seems  that  Garbo  doesn't 
think  very  much  of  Gustav  Norin. 

Gustav  is  the  young  Swed'sh  sculptor  who, 
when  finances  were  low,  worked  in  Garbo's 
house.  It  was  from  Norin  that  Mrs.  Palmborg 
got  much  of  the  material  for  her  book  on 
Garbo. 

The  other  day,  Garbo  accidentally  en- 
countered Norin  on  the  street.  She  stopped 
short,  looked  him  over  slowly  from  head  to 
foot,  and  then  husky-voiced,  in  inflections  of 
deep  disdain: 

"So,  det  are  Du  .  .  .!" 

Which,  in  Swedish,  and  English,  means:  "So 
that's  you?" 

And  is  very,  very  crushing. 


Wide  World 


Loretta  tells  it  to  the  judge!  Little 
Miss  Young,  whose  blazing  marital 
adventure  with  Grant  Withers  turned 
to  embers  and  then  ashes,  is  on  the 
witness  stand  in  Los  Angeles.  "Please, 
Judge,"  says  Gretchen,  for  that's  her 
real  name,  "Grant  didn't  support  me, 
and  I  want  a  divorce!"  Poor  little 
Young  Love ! 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


ANN  HARDING  wanted  a  vacation.  She 
had  only  a  week's  time  off.  Overnight  she 
decided  to  spend  those  days  in  New  York,  so 
she  and  a  girl  friend  (husband  HarryBannister 
was  working)  hopped  in  Ann's  plane  and — with 
the  pilot — flew  across  the  country. 

Ann  wanted  a  rest.  Interviews  and  curious 
eyes  did  not  have  any  place  in  her  plans,  so  she 
dressed  simply,  avoided  the  smarter  places  and 
went  about  New  York  unrecognized.  The 
most  amusing  of  her  experiences  happened  at 
the  theater.  Sitting  directly  behind  her  and 
two  friends  were  three  people,  obviously 
celebrity  seekers.  Between  acts  the  man  in  the 
party  would  report  to  the  two  women  that  he'd 
just  seen  So  and  So  who  played  a  small  part  in 
some  obscure  movie  or  "there's  that  guy  that 
had  his  picture  in  the  paper  yesterday." 

One  of  the  women  remarked,  "  Frank  has  an 
eye  like  a  hawk.  He  never  misses  seeing  an  im- 
portant person.  And  he  can  recognize  every 
movie  star."  When  the  play  was  over  Ann 
turned  and  faced  old  "eye-like-a-hawk."  One 
of  the  women  was  having  trouble  getting  into 
her  coat.  Ann  graciously  helped  her  and  was 
sweetly  thanked.  But  not  one  of  them  knew 
that  Ann  Harding  had  been  sitting  directly  in 
front  of  them  all  evening.  And  won't  they  be 
amazed  when  they  read  this! 

"DUSTER  KEATON  got  generous 
■'■■'one  day  and  invited  the  entire 
cast  of  "Possessed"  to  be  his  guests 
for  luncheon. 

Joan  Crawford  and  Clark  Gable 
were  the  honored  guests. 

Then  he  served  them  corned  beef 
and  cabbage  and  onions.  And  that 
afternoon  Joan  and  Clark  had  to  do 
a  big  love  scene.    Oh,  Buster! 

V\  THAT  a  party  they  gave  to  welcome 
W  Marion  Davies  back  from  Europe! 

There  was  a  Mexican  band,  and  one  room  at 
the  Ambassador,  where  the  event  took  place, 
was  turned  into  a  miniature  Mexican  dance 
hall.  For  the  more  formal  there  was  a  dance 
orchestra  in  the  French  room. 

Ina  Claire  startled  the  natives  by  arriving 
with  Joel  McCrea.  But  she  left  the  "guy  what 
brung  her"  for  ex-hubby  Jack  Gilbert  who 
stagged  it.  Bobby  Ames,  another  of  Ina's  boy 
friends,  was  supposed  to  bring  Anita  Page.  He 
was  working.    Anita  came  alone. 

/CONSTANCE  BENNETT,  former  girl 
^^friend  of  Joel  McCrea,  was  with  the 
Marquis  and  a  Baron  Jaunez,  also  from  Paris. 
Gloria  Swanson  was  not  there. 

Buddy  Rogers  accompanied  Mary  Brian  and 
Russell  Gleason,  Mary's  steady,  was  burned  up 
about  that.  Dorothy  Jordan  was  to  accom- 
pany Howard  Hughes,  but  Dorothy  had  to 
work  so  Millionaire  Hughes  stagged  it. 

Billie  Dove  attended  alone. 

The  stags  included:  Lawrence  Tibbett, 
Irving  Thalberg  (Norma  Shearer  was  ill) ; 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr.;  Billy  Haines;  Hoot 
Gibson  (Sally  Eilers  working) ;  Norman  Foster 
(Claudette  Colbert  in  New  York). 

JIMMY  DURANTE,  who  is  causing  a  riot  in 
♦'Hollywood  with  his  wise-cracks  (there's  a 
story  about  him  in  this  issue  of  Photoplay), 
was  the  hit  of  Marion  Davies'  party.  He  acted 
as  master  of  ceremonies  and  presented  Marion 
with  the  key  to  the  city. 

This  was  Jimmy's  first  appearance  in  high 
sassiety.  His  little  wife  followed  him  adoringly 
with  a  beaming  I-knew-he-could-it  expression. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  94  ] 


7 


Woolens  love 

their  bath  in 

IVORY  SNOW 


A  frisk  in  the  new  quick- dis- 
solving Ivory  Snow  is  the 
easiest,  safest  way  to  wash  all 
fine  woolens. 

Ivory  Snow  is  pure  Ivory 
Soap  in  its  most  modern  form 
— tiny,  tiny  pearls  so  fine  they 
feel  powder- smooth  between 
your  fingers.  They  are  so  eager 
to  work  that  they  dissolve 
and  fluff  up  into  vel- 
Bk.  vety  rich  suds  as 
^     soon  as  they 


touch  even  lukewarm  water. 

With  other  soaps,  after  your 
hands  are  hot  from  whipping 
up  suds  in  hot  water,  you  may 
fail  to  cool  the  suds  enough  for 
your  fine  things.  But  Ivory 
Snow  makes  instant  suds  in 
lukewarm  water.  And  Ivory 
Snow  melts  completely —  no  un- 
dissolved particles  to  spot  the 
clothes! 

Use  Ivory  Snow  lavishly — 
the  big  package  costs  only  15j*. 


Silk  and  woolen  manufacturers  agree 

"A  perfect  soap  for  silks,"  say  Mallinson, 
Cheney  Brothers  and  Truliu.  "The  ideal  soap 
for  woolens,"  say  the  weavers  of  the  fine 
Biltmore  Handwoven  Homespuns,  the  makers 
of  downy  Mariposa  blankets  and  the  Botany 
\^  orsted  Mills,  leading  woolen  manufacturers, 
to  mention  only  a  few. 

e  1932.  r.  &  g.  Co. 


99%.%    PURE 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  93  ] 


Lloyd  rescued  bis  children  when  a  fire  broke 
out  in  his  home.  .  .  .  Because  Helen  Chand- 
ler's teeth  didn't  show  enough,  a  Hollywood 
dentist  made  caps  to  lengthen  them.  .  .  .  She 
wears  them  over  her  own  teeth  when  she's 
making  a  picture.  .  .  .  When  Minna  Gombell 
fyou  were  crazy  about  her  in  "Bad  Girl") 
isn't  acting  before  the  camera  she  gives  the 
newer  Fox  players  lessons  in  diction,  grace, 
make-up  and  general  deportment.  .  .  .  Many 
newspaper  reporters  are  trying  to  claim  the 
discovery  of  Mary  Astor's  secret  marriage  to 
Dr.  Franklyn  Thorpe.  .  .  .  But  Photoplay 
told  you  all  about  it  first  in  the  November 
issue.  .  .  . 

JACKIE  COOPER'S  mother  is  on  a  weekly 
'salary  as  the  kid's  guardian.  .  .  .  His 
grandmother  is  on  his  payroll,  too.  .  .  .  Ruth 
Noble,  a  vaudeville  actress,  claims  that  that 
baby  Sessue  Hayakawa  adopted  is  hers — and 
the  Japanese  actor's  son. 

"D  EGINALD  DENNY  was  late  on 
-^the  set. 

The  assistant  director,  knowing 
Denny's  usual  promptness,  called 
him. 

"Oh,  you'll  have  to  wait,"  shouted 
Denny.  "I'm  right  in  the  midst  of 
becoming  a  father." 

And  was  he  pleased  and  how  he 
does  boast  about  the  fact  that  it  was 
a  boy! 


The  old  and  the  new — four-footed  pinto  hoss  and  two-winged  bronco  of  the 
air.    Ken  Maynard,  cowboy  star,  and  his  steed  Tarzan  watch  their  pictures 
being  painted  on  the  side  of  Ken's  new  Stearman  biplane.     Movie  cow- 
punchers  used  to  be  bucked  off.    Now  they  take  off! 


A/fARLENE  DIETRICH  has  signed  a  new 
■'■''■'•three-year  contract  with  Paramount  for 
twenty-six  weeks  work  in  America  each  year. 
The  other  twenty-six  weeks  or  six  months  will 
be  spent  in  the  fatherland. 

Since  Marlene  is  not  on  the  quota  list  this  six 
months  is  made  necessary  by  law.  But  "  Legs" 
Dietrich  doesn't  want  to  be  on  the  quota.  She 
demands  the  six  months  in  Germany  anyhow 
and  she  considers  Hollywood  a  place  in  which 
to  work  and  make  money;  home  a  place  to  live 
and  spend  it. 

(Checking  up  on  heart  beats:  Esteiie 

^^Taylor  says  Jack  Dempsey's  Reno  divorce 
doesn't  count,  and  insists  his  decree  is  invalid 
in  California.  .  .  .  Lily  Damita  denies  she  was 
secretly  married  ...  or  even  engaged.  .  .  . 
Roberta  Gale  caught  the  bride's  bouquet  at  the 
Rita  LaRoy-Ben  Hershfield  wedding,  and 
Hollywood  learns  of  her  betrothal  to  Aviator 
Major  Roy  W.  Ammel.  .  .  .  Mrs.  Reginald 
Denny,  who  used  to  be  screen  actress  "Bubbles" 
SteifTel,  presents  Reg  with  a  baby  boy.  .  .  . 
Josephine  Dunn  goes  into  court  and  has  her 
divorced  hubby,  Clyde  Greathouse,  sent  to  jail 
for  nonpayment  of  alimony.  .  .  .  Arlene  Judge 
is  now  Mrs.  Wesley  Director  Ruggles.  .  .  . 
Lena  Malena  becomes  the  bride  of  Wilmer 
Anderson,  banker.  .  .  .  George  O'Brien  and 
Marguerite  Churchill  very  much  that  way. 
.  .  .  Nils  Asther  answers  divorce  rumors  by 
giving    an    "at    home"    with    wifey    Vivian 


Duncan,  at  which  he  amused  guests  by  sitting 
on  the  floor  playing  with  the  baby.  .  .  .  Looks 
safe  to  predict  that  1932  will  find  Russell 
Gleason  and  Mary  Brian  answering  to  Mr.  and 

Mrs.  .  .  . 

D  AQUEL  TORRES  and  William  B.  Leeds, 
-^the  millionaire,  say  they're  just  good 
friends.  .  .  .  Howard  Hughes  and  Constance 
Cummings  and  Constance  Cummings  and 
Leslie  McFadden.  .  .  .  Loretta  Young  and 
Mervyn  LeRoy.  .  .  .  Comedian  Harry  Lang- 
don  and  the  Mrs.  are  going  to  tell  it  to  a  judge 
in  spite  of  her  remark  the  day  before  that  they 
were  "happy  as  turtle  doves."  .  .  .  Anna  May 
Wong  and  a  wealthy  Peruvian  gentleman.  .  .  . 
Corliss  Palmer  and  Eugene  Brewster  have 
separated  after  all  these  years.  .  .  .  Mrs. 
Duncan  Renaldo  is  opening  legal  fire  on 
Edwina  Booth  again.  .  .  .  Rex  Lease  and 
Eleanor  Hunt  got  that  divorce  at  last.  .  .  . 
Walter  Huston's  wife's  in  Reno  for  the  usual 


CIDNEY  SKOLSKY  reports  that  Marie 
^Dressier  made  her  stage  debut  as  "Cupid," 
of  all  things  ...  it  was  at  a  church  pageant. 
.  .  .  Beverly  Hills  and  Hollywood  churches 
are  crowded  by  tourists  hoping  to  see  movie 
stars.  .  .  .  What's  more,  they  often  do.  .  .  . 
There  are  1,000  chorus  girls  in  Hollywood  try- 
ing to  find  work.  .  .  .  The  movie  musicals 
lured   them  and   left   them  flat.  .  .  .  Harold 


T  UPE  VELEZ  has  seventy-five  hats  (count 
era— seventy-five !)  and  enough  dresses  to 
appear  in  a  different  one  every  day  for  six 
months. 

Furthermore,  she's  allowed  herself  thirty- 
five  thousand  dollars  for  clothes  money  while 
she's  in  Europe. 

Yet,  she  drives  to  work  in  an  old  bathing 
suit,  because  it's  more  comfortable!  Yes, 
Lupe  is  different. 


Takes  a  goodish  bit  of  guessing  to 
figure  this  one — but  it  really  is  Nancy 
Carroll,  as  she  looks  in  "The  Man  I 
Killed,"  which  Lubitsch  is  directing. 
It  was  the  German  peasant-girl  hair- 
dress  that  had  us  winging  for  a  minute. 
Any  chance  for  this  style  catching? 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December.  1931 


JACKIE  COOPER  had  trouble  with  his 
J  multiplication  tables.  He  couldn't  learn 
them. 

Wallace  Beery  heard  the  teacher  struggling 
with  Jackie  on  the  set. 

"Here,"  he  said  roughly,  "I'll  teach  him." 

So  big  Wally  and  little  Jackie  left  the  set  and 
Wally  pointed  to  the  sky.  "  If  you  saw  an  air- 
plane up  there  what  would  you  do?" 

"I'd  love  it!" 

"Of  course  you  would,"  answered  Prof. 
Beery.  "If  you  saw  two  times  one  airplane 
how  many  would  there  be?  Four  times  one 
airplane — " 

And  now  Jackie  says,  the  words  tumbling 
over  each  other,  "Three  times  one  airplane  is 
three  airplanes;  four  times  two  airplanes  is 
eight  airplanes." 

If  you  ask  him  how  many  nine  times  nine 
airplanes  is — he'll  answer  "eighty-one  air- 
planes" instantly.  But  if  you  ask  him  what  is 
nine  times  nine,  he  doesn't  know. 

TX7TLL  ROGERS  has   flown   all 
"  "  over    the    United    States    and 
Mexico.    He'll  shortly  be  winging  his 
way  to  South  America. 

Yet  Will  gets  terribly  sea  (or  air) 
sick  from  airplaning ! 

TT  was  about  a  quarter  to  five  in  the  afternoon 
"^of  the  first  day  of  work  on  "Mata  Hari,"  the 
Greta  Garbo-Ramon  Novarro  co-starring 
picture. 

Greta  noticed  the  time  and  said,  "I  think 
that  is  enough  for  today."  And  Garbo  went 
home. 

Since  then  Ramon  Novarro  is  all  for  this  co- 
starring  business.  This  was  the  first  time  in 
ten  years  that  Ramon  had  been  home  in  time 
to  eat  dinner  with  his  family,  while  he  was 
working  on  a  picture. 

COMEONE  warned  Ramon  Novarro  not  to 
let   working   with   Garbo   spoil  his  acting. 
"Robert  Montgomery  did  his  only  poor  job 
with  her  in  '  Inspiration,'  "  he  was  told. 

Ramon  laughed.  "I  know.  I  was  so  fright- 
ened when  I  took  the  test  that  I  fell  right  over 
into  her  arms.  But  no  more.  Today,  she 
missed  her  lines  once  so  I  missed  mine  IwiceP' 
And  isn't  Garbomania  strange?  Ramon  was 
a  star  before  Garbo  was  heard  of. 

"K/TARIE  DRESSLER  has  a  new  hobby. 
■'■*-*Three  guesses!  No,  you're  wrong.  It's 
clothes.  She's  wearing  gorgeous  pajamas  and 
hats  crooked  over  one  eye  and  suits  made  to 
order. 

No,  she  hasn't  reduced.  She's  going  to  show 
the  stout  women  how  to  look  chic. 


G 


RACE  MOORE'S  husband 

speaks  no  English. 
She  speaks  no  Spanish. 
They  converse  in  French. 


r^  ARY  COOPER'S  health  is  still  not  so  good. 
^*-r.  .  .  Lloyd  Hamilton  in  an  automobile 
accident.  .  .  .  He's  seriously  injured.  .  .  . 
Newest  dope  on  the  turbulent  career  of  Lya  de 
Putti  is  that  she  must  leave  the  United  States 
by  March.  ...  A  court  ruling.  .  .  .  Unable 
to  find  wigs  that  looked  natural,  Mae  Marsh 
bleached  her  hair  white  for  the  mother  role  in 
"Over  the  Hill."  .  .  .  Off  screen  she  looks  like 
a  platinum  blonde.  ...  A  baby  less  than  six 
months  old  is  not  allowed  to  work  before  the 
camera  for  longer  than  thirty  seconds  at  a  time. 
.  .  .  That's  because  of  the  glaring  lights. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  96  ] 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  95  ] 


Reginald  Denny,  Jr.,  was  three  days  old  when  this  was  snapped,  and  so  far 
he  doesn't  seem  to  think  much  of  this  silly  world.    He'd  rather  snooze  in 
the  arms  of  his  pretty  mamma,  who  used  to  be  "Bubbles"  Steiffel.    In- 
cidentally, the  proud  pop  took  the  picture 


have  more  time  to  devote  to  herself  and  sight- 
seeing in  Europe  by  buying  her  clothes  before 
she  left,  instead  of  waiting  to  get  them 
abroad. 

"VX7HAT  A  MAN"  GABLE  is  the  latest 
^*  nickname  for  Hollywood's  latest  heart 

pulmotor. 

It  was  started  by  a  headline  in  the  October 

issue  of  Photoplay 

""THE  set  of  "Dr.  Jekyll  and  Mr.  Hyde"  with 
*~  Fredric  March  has  been  barred  to  all 
visitors. 

But  to  bar  a  set  is  just  a  double-dog  dare  to 
Mitzi    Green  and  Jackie  Searl. 

They  sneaked  from  the  "Sooky"  set  where 
they  were  working,  determined  to  get  a  peep 
of  the  forbidden. 

How  they  got  through  the  stage  door,  don't 
ask  me.  But  they  did.  When  they  came  to 
the  canvas  encircling  the  immediate  set,  kept 
there  as  a  double  protection,  they  crawled 
beneath  as  they  would  get  free  seats  at  a  circus. 

A  rain  scene  was  in  progress.  They  didn't 
dare  move,  the  cameras  were  grinding!  Two 
wet,  bedraggled  little  rascals  crawled  away 
when  the  scene  was  completed.  No  one  on  that 
set  saw  them  but  when  they  returned  to  the 
"Sooky"  set,  they  were  sent  home  to  their 
mammas. 

And  Jackie  went  to  bed  with  a  sore  throat. 


TAOLORES  DEL  RIO  and  Cedric  Gibbons 
■*~ 'nave  moved  from  the  futuristic  home  in 
Santa  Monica  to  the  house  in  which  Dolores 
lived  before  they  were  married.  .  .  .  Stu 
Erwin  is  so  fussy  about  his  food  that  the  good 
wife,  June  Collyer,  does  all  the  marketing  in 
person.  .  .  .  They're  planning  to  star  Janet 
Gaynor  in  all  the  old  Pickford  successes.  .  .  . 
Have  you  noticed  how  much  Sally  O'Neil  looks 
like  Mabel  Normand  in  her  film  heyday?  .  .  . 
Los  Angeles  real  estate  statisticians  figure  that 
film  stars'  investments  in  real  property  total 
about  $20,000,000.  .  .  .  Black  is  Pola  Negri's 
favorite  color.  .  .  .  Her  bathroom  is  done  en- 
tirely in  black  tiles  and  porcelain.  .  .  .  Tal- 
lulah  Bankhead  is  going  to  Hollywood.  .  .  . 
Oh,  boy,  some  fun,  between  the  two  big  shots — 
Dietrich  and  Bankhead — on  the  same  lot.  Old- 
timers  will  recall  the  professional  jealousy  of 
Pola  Negri  and  Gloria  Swanson.  .  .  .  James 
Cagney's  studio  fight  is  over.  .  .  .  He  got 
what  he  wanted — sure,  it  was  more  salary. 
.  .  .  Polly  Moran  wrote  one  of  those  inside 
gossipy  letters  to  Billy  Haines  while  Billy 
was  making  personal  appearances.  .  .  .  Billy 
lost  the  letter  and  the  person  who  found  it 
circulated  all  the  news.  .  .  .  Colleen  Moore  is 
now  one  of  the  most  smartly  dressed  women  in 
New  York.  .  .  .  They've  banned  "An  American 
Tragedy"  in  London.  .  .  .  The  English  object 
to  premeditated  murder.  .  .  .  And  Leslie 
Howard,  in  London,  refused  a  Hollywood  con- 
tract because  he  "can't  stand  the  pace." 

T\  THEN  Lilyan  Tashman  left  for  a  month's 
^*  vacation  in  Europe,  she  had  ten  trunks 
full  of  brand-new  clothes — every  one  of  them 
created  in  New  York  and  Hollywood.  All  of 
Lil's  friends,  who  had  been  abroad,  told  her 
that  she  could  save  money  and  annoyance  and 

96 


Look — poor,  beautiful  Dorothy  Mackaill,  breakfasting  all  alone  in  her 
lovely  Hollywood  home !  Note  the  dreamy  look  and  the  pretty  pajamas — 
not  to  mention  pretty  Dotty!  Is  it  any  wonder  she's  reported  engaged 
every  hour  or  so?  And  when  this  picture  gets  around,  we  expect  her  to  get 
another  bale  of  proposals  by  fast  wire ! 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


WHEN  people  talk  about  Howard  Hughes 
playing  the  field  and  having  a  monopoly 
on  all  the  blondes  of  Hollywood,  it  makes  me  a 
litt'e  weary.  If  you  could  only  see  the  dozens 
of  girls  who  fling  themselves  at  Hughes  and  try 
to  chisel  some  of  the  Hughes'  millions  you 
would  wonder  how  he  maintains  any  equilib- 
rium at  all.  Recently,  on  a  trip  to  Santa 
Barbara,  there  were  ninety  young  girls  on  his 
yacht  for  tea  at  one  time,  all  hanging  on  his 
words  as  passengers  hang  on  subway  straps. 
Yet  Howard  is  a  quiet,  modest,  retiring  man 
who  still  blushes  at  a  risque  story.  Making 
pictures — and  not  blondes — is  his  chief  in- 
terest. 

X/TICKEY  MOUSE  celebrated  his  third 
■^'•••birthday  recently.  ...  A  New  York 
store  sued  Ruth  Chatterton  for  $79.50 — for 
two  blouses.  .  .  .  George  Arliss  announces  he 
has  quit  the  stage  forever  for  films.  .  .  .  Jackie 
Cooper  goes  to  the  Hollywood  prize  fights.  .  .  . 
John  and  Lionel  Barrymore  will  appear  to- 
gether in  the  same  picture,  "Arsene  Lupin," 
for  M-G-M.  .  .  .  And  another  Barrymore  — 
Sam  Colt,  son  of  Ethel  Barrymore — arrives  in 
Hollywood  intending  to  enter  pictures.  .  .  . 
Olga  Baclanova  took  out  her  citizenship  papers. 
.  .  .  Will  Rogers,  Junior,  enrolls  as  a  freshman 
at  Stanford.  .  .  .  William  Powell's  nickname 
is— ha!  ha!— "Willie!"  .  .  .  But  wifie  Carole 
Lombard  calls  him  "Junior." 

T  ITTLE  Dorothy  Jordan,  who  has  been 
^""'pictured  as  another  stay-at-home  girl  like 
Anita  Page,  is  stepping  out  in  high  sassiety. 
She's  seen  at  all  the  yacht  clubs,  at  non- 
professional social  functions,  and  at  the  opera. 
Perhaps  her  friendship  with  Howard  Hughes 
started  it!  Even  Anita  goes  out  three  nights 
a  week  with  boy  friends  and  without  papa  and 
mama.  Here,  here,  Will  Hays,  you'd  better 
look  into  this. 

/"pRICK  Outfit  of  the  Month: 
"*"  Jack  Oakie  dancing  at  the  Am- 
bassador's Cocoanut  Grove  in  white 
flannel  trousers,  blue  shirt  with  white 
bow  tie,  white  sweater  and  tuxedo 
jacket ! 

VX7ALLACE  BEERY  bought  a  swell,  new 
vv  car  of  an  ultra  expensive  make. 

The  salesman  made  the  delivery  late  one 
afternoon.  Beery  started  to  a  preview  in  it. 
Half-way  there  it  stopped  running,  suddenly 
and  decisively. 

Wally  went  home,  got  his  old,  dilapidated 
Ford,  drove  to  the  new  car,  tied  it  by  two  ropes 
to  the  Ford  and  went  thus  to  the  preview, 
where  he  showed  it  to  all  his  friends.  The  next 
morning  he  towed  it  to  the  sa'esroom. 

"You  can  keep  it!"  he  said  as  he  drove  away 
in  the  rattling  Ford.  "My  friends  know  now  I 
can  afford  it." 

TT  was  like  parting  with  an  old  friend  when 
■^-Charlie  Farrell  sold  his  yawl,  "Flying  Cloud." 
For  years  that  boat  has  been  as  dear  to  him 
as  Tony  is  to  Tom  Mix.  Every  free  moment 
was  spent  sailing.  The  reason  for  the  sacri- 
fice? Mrs.  Farrell,  Virginia  Valli,  is  not  as 
fond  of  boating  as  friend  husband. 

COMEBODY  is  telling  the  story  about  the 
man  who  remarked  at  a  Hollywood  party 

that  the  lad  who  made  talking  pictures  possible 

was  living  in  France — without  a  dime. 

"That's  swell,"  said  Jack  Gilbert.    "I  hope 

he  starves." 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  98  ] 


THIS  RISING  YOUNG  ARCHI- 
TECT says:  "My  ideal  girl  is 
trim  and  smart — but  not  a 
peacock.  People  like  her  be- 
cause she  is  genuine,  and  nat- 
ural and  good  company." 


makes  a  rjtyl 


a  "DREAM   GIRL"? 


Is  it  laughing  eyes?  Or  golden  hair? 
Or  pep?   Or  money?   Or  clothes? 

Perhaps.  But  94  out  of  100  young 
men  told  me  that  the  one  thing  they 
wanted  most  in  the  girl  they  married 
was  natural  charm ! 

Natural — does  that  word  describe 
you?  Have  you  the  fresh,  natural  look 
that  men  admire?  Or  is  your  complex- 
ion sallow,  artificial,  "hot-house," 
too  obviously  made-up? 

Camay  can  help  you  get  and  keep 
your  natural  loveliness.  Camay  has 
been  approved  enthusiastically  by  73 
famous  doctors  as  an  unusually  gentle 
soap  for  even  the  most  delicate  skin. 

No  other  soap  has  won  such  medical 
approval. 


CAMAY 


Do  try  Camay  today.  You'll  be  de- 
lighted with  the  smoothness  of 
Camay  lather,  the  caressing,  delicately 
scented  softness  of  Camay  foam.  And 
you'll  soon  realize  you  have  never 
found  anything  like  it  to  give  you  a 
fresh,  clear,  vital  look— the  "natural 
look"  men  admire. 


COMPLEXION      SOAP 


for  the   fresh  NATUBAL 
skin   miii   admire 


1  Oe 


C  1*31.  P.  4G.  Co. 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  97  ] 


Jimmy  Durante  at  breakfast  in  his  new  California  home.    "Just  the  kind 

of  a  shack  for  a  big  corned  beef  and  cabbage  brawl  with  a  keg  of  beer," 

says  the  new  comic  sensation,  he  whom  the  world  calls  "Schnozzle" 


"p\ICK  ARLEN  has  also  sold  his  yacht. 
■^^And  not  because  of  the  depression  but 
because  wife,  Jobyna  Ralston,  went  on  a 
strike. 

The  Arlen  yacht  was  small  but  complete. 
Both  a  crew  and  guests  could  not  be  ac- 
commodated— so  there  was  no  crew. 

Joby  did  the  cooking,  washed  the  dishes, 
made  the  bunks.  After  two  years  of  it,  she 
rebelled. 

They  are  building  a  swimming  pool  at  their 
house  instead. 

TT  takes  Connie  Bennett  one  week  to  earn 
■%30,000.  It  takes  Herbert  Hoover  nineteen 
weeks  to  get  the  same  amount  and  Andrew 
Mellon  a  year.  But — Connie  doesn't  get  that 
every  week. 

The  much  publicized  salary  check  was  a 
fluke,  when  she  was  loaned  for  that  amount 
for  one  picture. 

She  worked  one  week  and  then  rested 
for    several. 


98 


A/fARLENE   DIETRICH'S  baby  has 

learned  just  one  English  expression  in  her 
six  months  in  this  country.  It's  "you're 
driving  me  crazy"  and  she  says  it  between 
every  German  sentence. 

Wonder  if  she  learned  that    from  mamma 
Marlene. 

"QOROTHY  MACKAILL  has  a  new  pet. 
It's  a  Brazilian  monkey  named  "Decatur." 
Decatur  had  a  few  scenes  with  Dot  in  "Safe 
in   Hell." 

Dot  liked  it  so  much,  she  bought  it  from 
the  owner. 

"T\EPRESSION  note. 
■*™^     There  are  huge  benches  placed 
on  the  sets  of  a  certain  studio  on 
which  the  following  sign  is  painted  in 
bold,  white  letters: 

"Please  use  these  benches  and 
save  possible  damage  to  expensive 
furniture  on  the  set." 


JUST  about  the  time  Lila  Lee,  all  healthy 
again  and  ready  to  resume  her  picture  career, 
returned  from  that  vacation  in  Tahiti,  her  ex- 
hubby  ran  away  and  came  back  married. 

He's  James  Kirkwood,  you  know,  who 
divorced  Lila  Lee  some  time  ago.  In  an 
airplane,  he  eloped  with  Beatrice  Powers, 
former  Ziegfeld  girl.  They  flew  from  Holly- 
wood to  Las  Vegas,  Nevada,  where  they  were 
married. 

CHE'S  a  comedienne  off  as  well  as  on,  is 
^ZaSu  Pitts.  And  the  other  day  she  was 
driving  in  from  the  beach  with  Thelma  Todd 
and  Irene  Edwards. 

They  stopped  at  a  drug  store  for  sodas  and 
ZaSu,  the  little  cut-up,  slipped  away  from  the 
others  and  drove  the  car  home,  leaving  them 
stranded. 

Thelma  and  Irene  were  in  beach  togs — very 
fancy  pajamas — and  they  didn't  have  a  cent. 
For  one  hour  those  two  attractive  girls  tried 
to  hail  a  car.    But  no  luck. 

At  last  a  director  they  know  happened  by 
and  gave  them  a  lift. 

That's  how  blase  Hollywood  feels  about 
be;\uty  in  distress. 

"DEBE  DANIELS  is  off  the  sooth- 
■^sayers  and  crystal  gazers  for 
keeps. 

They  all  predicted  a  boy  and  it  was 
a  girl  baby. 

They  all  missed  the  date  of  birth 
by  two  weeks,  and  they  guessed  every 
day  of  the  week  but  the  right  one. 

"Y"OU  remember  that  Kay  Francis  lost  some 
-*-  valuable  jewelry  recently.  Only  the  wedding 
ring  was  returned. 

"They  couldn't  pawn  that  and  besides  it 
was  only  worth  five  dollars,"  Kay's  husband, 
Kenneth  MacKenna,  said. 

"Only  worth  five  dollars!"  someone  ex- 
claimed. 

He  blushed.  "Yes.  You  see,  I  had  no 
idea  how  much  a  wedding  cost  so  the  morning 
we  were  to  be  married,  I  stopped  at  the  bank 
and  drew  out  five  hundred  dollars  hoping  that 
would  cover  it.  I  paid  only  five  dollars  for 
the  wedding  ring  to  make  sure  I  would  have 
enough  left. 

"Then  I  discovered  the  license  was  only  two 
dollars  and  the  minister  ten — only  cost  me 
seventeen   bucks   altogether." 

TN  order  to  rid  himself  of  visitors 
■^■who  were  actually  impeding  prog- 
ress of  direction  on  the  "Franken- 
stein" set,  Director  James  Whale 
thought  up  the  gag  of  its  being  bad 
publicity  for  anybody  to  see  Boris 
Karloff  in  the  gruesome  make-up. 

Karloff  is  more  than  six  feet  tall 
and  weighs  two  hundred  pounds.  He 
uses  forty-eight  pounds  of  make-up 
and  body  structure. 

Going  to  and  from  the  set  he 
covers  himself  with  a  white  veil  and 
it's  one  of  the  funniest  sights  you've 
ever  seen. 

But  the  weight  of  the  make-up, 
plus  the  nerve  strain  and  the 
secrecy,  has  caused  him  to  lose 
twenty-one  pounds. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


99 


"""THE  other  day  Joan  Crawford  was  so 
nervous  she  could  scarcely  get  her  make-up 
on. 

She  shook  so  the  mascara  brush  would  not 
make  an  even  application. 

"Has  something  terrible  happened?"  asked 
the  hairdresser. 

"No!  No!  I  have  to  make  a  speech  before 
700  people!" 

It  was  the  first  public  speech  of  her  life 
before  700  extras  in  the  Philharmonic 
Auditorium,  a  scene  for  her  picture 
"Possessed." 

Joan  (in  the  story)  tries  to  get  Clark  Gable 
elected  governor. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  100  ] 


Juliette  Compton's  quaintly  "coiffed" 
head  belies  the  sophistication  of  her 
black  sequined  gown.  There  is  more 
than  a  bit  of  glitter  in  evening  hours — 
even  the  diamond  bracelets  add  their 
bit  to  this  costume.  How  do  you  like 
those  shorter  gloves,  girls?  A  smart 
change  from  the  long,  wrinkled  ones 


TWICE  THE  BEAUTY 

from 

Face  powder 

if  you  use 

Princess  Pat 


the  famous  almond  base 
makes  it  different 


Face  powder  gives  the  greatest 
beauty  when  it  is  the  softest.  The 
characteristic  of  Princess  Pat  face 
powder,  which  invariably  brings 
delight,  is  its  unusual  softness. 
It  gives  to  the  skin  a  new,  vel- 
vety smoothness  —  beauty  that 
is  natural,  and  not  "powdery." 


All  the  many  advantages  of  Princess  Pat 
face  powder  are  due  to  its  almond  base. 
And  since  no  other  powder  possesses  an 
almond  base,  Princess  Pat  is  bound  to  be 
different  —  bound  to  be  a  glorious  experi- 
ence when  it  is  used  for  the  first  time.  No 
woman  really  knows  the  excellence  to  which 
powder  can  attain  until  she  has  tried  "the 
powder  with  the  almond  base." 
A  Difference  with  a  Reason.  So  many  pow- 
ders are  described  as  impalpable,  or  fine,  or 
clinging  or  of  purest  ingredients.  But  do 
you  find  that  these  virtues  are  explained/ 
If  Princess  Pat  lacked  its  marvelous  almond 
base,  it,  too,  would  lack  explanation.  But 
every  woman  knows  that  almond  in  its 
various  forms  is  the  most  soothing  and  de- 
lightful of  all  beauty  aids. 

The  usual  base  of  face  powders  is  starch.  The 
slightest  thought  must  convince  any 
woman  that  almond  as  a  powder  base  is 
preferable  to  starch  in  the 
very  nature  of  things. 
Consequently  there  really 
is  a  reason  for  the  differ- 
ence immediately  notice- 


For  graciousness,  beauty, 
saooir  /aire,  complete  your 
make-up  uiih  Princess  Pat 
exquisite  rouge,  eye  shadow, 
truly  indelible  lip  rouge.  For 
alluringly  clear ,  transparent 
skin,  use  Princess  Pat 
creams,  to  cleanse,  nourish 
and  refine  skin  texture. 


Loretta  Young — Star 
of  First  National 
Pictures —  reveals  a 
bewitching  smile  as 
she  powders  with 
Princess  Pat. 


able  when  Princess  Pat,  the  exclusive 
almond  base  face  powder,  is  tried. 

And  Your  Skin  is  Actually  Improved.    Of 

course  Princess  Pat  is  used  primarily  for  the 
greater  beauty  it  gives  immediately  —  as 
powder  —  as  an  essential  of  make-up.  It  is 
preferred  for  its  dainty  fragrance;  for  the 
hours  and  hours  it  clings  —  longer  than 
you'd  dare  hope. 

But  there  is  something  additional  to  account 
for  the  preference  of  women  who  know. 
The  almond  in  Princess  Pat  is  definitely 
good  for  the  skin.  All  the  while  your  face 
powder  is  on,  the  almond  exerts  its  sooth- 
ing, beneficial  qualities.  Continued  use  of 
Princess  Pat  almond  base  face  powder  is  an 
excellent  preventive  of  coarse  pores.  It 
helps  wonderfully  in  overcoming  either  oily 
skin,  or  dry  skin.  For  it  helps  make  the 
skin  normal  —  in  which  event  there  can- 
not be  dryness  or  oilinese. 

Yes,  Princess  Pat  does 
give  "twice  the  beauty" 
from  face  powder  —  and 
millions  of  women  use  it 
for  this  reason. 


Prin 


cess 


Pat 


LONDON 


CHICAGO 


PQ  C  C        PRINCESS  PAT,  Dcpt.  156-C 

™  |\  1 1»       2709  Sou!h  Wdto  Street,  Chicago 
Without  cost  or  obligation  please  send  me  a  free 
sample  of  Princess  Pat  powder,  as  checked. 

□  Flesh         □  Olde  Ivory  (N'aturelle)         D    While 

D  Brunette         □  Ochre         Q  Mauve         D  Tan 

Name 

Street 

City  and  State 

One  sample  free,  additional  samples  10c  each 

IN    CANADA,   93  CHURCH    ST.,    TORONTO 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 


[  CONTINUED  PROM  PAGE  99  ] 


There  is  no  fluff  or  period  influence  to 
those  clothes  you  wear  for  winter 
sports.  Empress  Eugenie  probably 
would  have  swooned  at  such  an  out- 
fit— but  Marjorie  King  looks  comfort- 
able and  happy.  According  to  our  ex- 
pert, Seymour,  a  dark  woolen  suit 
with  bright  accents  makes  the  most 
effective  costume  against  snow.  Note 
the  workmanlike  boots,  heavy  socks 
and  woolen  accessories.  The  blouse 
"zips"  closed  and  the  trousers  are 
done  in  the  Norwegian  manner 


"D  ITA  LA  ROY,  that  gorgeous  vamp  of  the 
-'-^■screen,  who  never  loses  her  nerve  no  matter 
what  the  story  situation  may  be,  almost 
collapsed  with  nervousness  at  her  own  wed- 
ding! 

Rita — Hollywood  calls  her  hard-boiled — was 
so  terrified  at  the  ordeal  of  walking  down  the 
aisle  of  Temple  Israel,  the  Hollywood 
synagogue  where  she  became  the  bride  of 
Actor's-Agent  Ben  Hershiield,  that  she  wav- 
ered at  the  top  of  the  steps  to  the  platform 
where  the  marriage  was  performed. 

Hershfield  sprang  forward  and  grasped  her 
arm  to  steady  her. 

And  throughout  the  ceremony,  Rita 
trembled  so  that  her  bouquet  almost  came  to 
pieces! 


•"PHE  night  watchman  at  Universal  studios 
■*■  was  making  his  rounds  the  other  evening 
when  he  heard  horse  hoofs.  No  company  was 
working.  He  began  a  thorough  search  for 
marauders. 

As  he  was  hurrying  between  two  buildings 
he  heard  a  lion's  roar. 

"They  must  be  showing  a  picture,"  he  mused 
hopefully,  to  quiet  his  fear.  He  dashed  into 
the  projection  rooms,  one  after  another.  All 
was  dark. 

As  he  exited  from  the  last  one,  he  heard  a 
baby  whimpering. 

Perspiration  was  dripping  from  his  face. 
Just  then  the  horses  hoofs  began  again,  fol- 
lowed by  a  cat's  meow. 

"I'm  going  to  call  the  police—" 

He  started  for  the  main  building  when  he 
saw  a  tiny  light  from  an  upper  window.  He 
drew  his  gun,  crawled  up  the  stairs  quietly, 
and  heard: 

"I  can  use  this  meow  in  that  next  picture  of 
James  Whale's  and  those  horses  hoofs  in — " 

The  watchman  lowered  his  gun.  Jack  Foley 
was  taking  inventory  of  the  sound  depart- 
ment. There  was  no  screen.  He  was  just 
running  off  sounds,  which  had  been  cut  from 
other  pictures,  on  a  victrola-like  contraption 
and  filing  them — just  as  you  file  names  and 
addresses. 

Now,  Foley  tells  the  night  watchman  when 
he  is  going  to  take  sound  inventory! 

HP  HEY  were  photographing  fashion 
A  pictures  of  Linda  Watkins,  Minna 
Gombell  and  other  feminine  players 
in  "Good  Sports." 

"The  background  must  prove  that 
these  are  really  taken  on  the  set," 
said  the  press  agent.  "Let's  use  the 
bar.  That'll  prove  it's  fake.  There 
aren't  any  real  bars  in  America  any 
more." 

Pardon  the  yawn ! 

"V"OU  will  remember  that  Monte  Blue  lost 

out  on  the  screen  because  the  size  of  his 

voice  and  the  size  of  his  body  didn't  match  up. 

Monte  has  spent  his  time  studying  with  Dr. 
Fleischman,  the  man  who  trained  Warner 
Baxter.  The  other  day  he  made  a  reel  for  a 
news  service. 

The  recorder  jumped  from  the  booth  to 
exclaim,  "What  a  voice.  It's  the  best  I've  re- 
corded in  a  year!" 

The  story  got  around  and  now  several 
studios  are  dickering  for  Monte's  services. 

HpHE  month's  heart  throb! 
■*■  Bodil  Rosing,  one  of  the  top-notch 
mother  actresses,  played  the  mother  in  "An 
American  Tragedy."  When  the  picture  was 
finished,  Von  Sternberg  decided  that  he  just 
couldn't  have  a  foreign  woman  for  that  role. 
So  he  shot  those  scenes  over  with  Lucille  La 
Verne. 

And  Bodil  had  been  so  thrilled  at  her  big 
chance  in  "An  American  Tragedy." 

^TICKT  BAUM,  German  authoress  of 
V  "Grand    Hotel,"    is    Hollywood's    latest 
social   lioness.     Here's  one   of   her   amusing 
stories. 

Her  fourteen-year-old  son  has  been  allowed 


free  access  to  his  mother's  library.  She  has 
never  dictated  his  reading. 

One  day  he  said,  "Mother,  I  have  just 
finished  reading  your  books." 

"And  do  you  like  them?" 

He  went  to  her,  put  his  arms  around  her 
and  cuddled  her  head  on  his  shoulder. 
"Mother,  I  think  they  are  dull  and  unin- 
teresting but  you  are  lovely." 

VTO  doubt  you'll  thrill  to  know  that  Helen 
*-  ^  Chandler  detests  parsnips  and  cottage 
cheese,  and  likes  her  eggs  "tight." 

"Tight  eggs,"  in  the  Chandler  lexicon,  means 
simply  hard-boiled,  fried  or  poached,  and  not 
soft. 

Oh,  well. 

A    LOS  ANGELES  theater  news- 

*^  paper  advertisement  announced: 

Helen  Twelvetrees 

in 

"Bad  Company" 

with 
RlCARDO   CORTEZ 

A  DRIENNE  AMES,  the  girl  with  the  rich 
■*  ^broker  husband,  attended  the  opening  of 
Jane  Cowl's  "Camille"  in  stunning  black  velvet 
pajamas. 

She  wore  a  short  llama  coat  and  the 
trousers  were  so  camouflaged  that  the 
audience  divided  its  attention  between  the 
play  and  trying  to  answer  the  question,  "Are 
they  really  pajamas?" 


Keystone 


A  beautiful  opera  and  talkie  star 
brings  her  new  husband  home !  Grace 
Moore  and  the  lucky  man,  Valentine 
Parera,  arriving  at  the  port  of  New 
York.  She  speaks  no  Spanish,  he  no 
English.    So  they  converse  in  French 


100 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


lOl 


T  OIS  MORAN  went  to  Belgium  between 
■■"^pictures  to  see  her  little  adopted  sister  who 
is  in  a  convent  in  that  country.  A  nice  gesture, 
on  Lois'  part,  adopting  this  homeless  youngster 
as  her  sister,  giving  her  not  only  an  education 
befitting  a  blood  sister,  but  an  affection  which 
makes  her  cross  the  water  twice  a  year  to  see 
her. 

\  X'AYBE  you  don't  care,  but  Ona  Munson's 
■'•''■'•hobby  is  writing  verse.  Silly  verse,  she 
prefers.    Here's  a  sample: 

When  springtime  comes 
And  stern  winter  goes, 
I  weep  much  because 

I  must  powder  my  nose. 
It  makes  me  unhappy 
And  robs  me  of  ease 
For  powdering  my  nose 
Just  makes  me  sneeze. 
Well,  anyway,  she's  a  good  actress. 

/"\NE  of  the  strangest  accidents  in  studio 
^-'history  gave  Warner  Baxter  more  than  a 
week's  uncomfortable  vacation  from  acting, 
recently. 

He  was  walking  through  a  doorway  on  a 
motion  picture  set  when  the  glass  fell  out  of 
the  transom  above  the  door.  Falling,  it 
struck  Baxter's  knee,  cutting  a  very  deep  gash 
in  which  several  stitches  had  to  be  taken. 
It  was  days  before  Baxter  could  walk  without 
limping,  and  production  was  held  up  during 
that  time. 

TX7ARNER  BAXTER  gets  the 
most  English  fan  mail  on  the 
Fox  lot,  but  Jose  Mojica  reads  his  in 
all  languages.  Mojica  is  Fox's  big- 
gest money-maker  abroad  not  only 
in  Spanish  speaking  countries  but  in 
Germany,  Denmark  and  even 
Sweden,  where  he  is  running  Greta 
Garbo  a  close  second. 

VX7ILLIAM  HAINES,  Hollywood's  most 
V*  militant  bachelor,  will  have  plenty  of 
woman  for  a  while,  at  least. 

Playing  opposite  him  in  the  vaudeville  act 
in  which  he's  making  a  personal  appearance 
tour  is  a  girl  called  Cupid  Ainsworth.  She 
weighs  250  pounds. 

TTO  raise  funds  for  charity  work  among  the 
needy  in  cinemaland,  officers  of  the  Motion 
Picture  Relief  Association  in  Hollywood  de- 
vised a  novel  plan  which  is  finding  pledgees  by 
the  score.  It  is  simply  this:  each  guarantor 
promises  to  pay  one  half  of  one  per  cent  of 
his  or  her  salary  to  the  fund.  Statisticians 
figure  the  plan  will  raise  at  least  $100,000  a 
year.  And  that  gives  a  bit  of  an  idea  of  how 
much  money  there  is  in  this  picture  business. 
Conrad  Nagel  suggested  the  plan. 

•"THERE  is  no  surer  sign  that  a  star  has 
■*■  really  arrived  than  when  her  dog  begins 
to  be  noticed.  It's  Hollywood's  subtle  way 
of  "yesing."  Recently  Joan  Crawford  ap- 
peared in  the  M-G-M  commissary,  and  three 
people  jumped  up  from  their  tables  and  ran 
to  pet  her  dog,  "Wattles." 

When  Marion  Davies  brought  back  from 
Berlin  a  Dachshund  named  "Gandhi,"  it  at 
once  changed  the  style  in  dogs.  Kay  Francis 
and  Allen  Vincent  have  already  followed  suit. 
Francis  calls  hers  "Weenie."  When  Lilyan 
Tashman  left  for  Europe,  she  announced  she 
would  bring  back  a  Dachshund  and  from  no 
other  place  than  Berlin. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  128  ] 


"It's  the  standard  for  vitamin 
studies  as  conducted  bv  the 


U.  S. 


Government  and  lead- 
ing universities." 


"You  don't  buy  these  tablets 
every  day;  they  come  in  a  10- 
day  bottle  because  they  keep." 


YEAST  FOAM 
TABLETS 


the  only  kintl  of 

yeast  suitable 

for  all  ayes 


"So  small,  so  easy  to  swallow. 

so  handy  to  carry  with  you  in 

purse  or  pocket-" 


*%tf 


"Being    all   yeast,    these 

tablets  are  the  richest  known 

natural  food  source  of 

Vitamins  B  and  G." 


"It's  a  wholesome  food  be- 
cause   it's    pure    yeast    and 
nothing  but  yeast.  No  drugs 
or  other  substances." 


"This  yeast  is  pasteurized; 
therefore  it  cannot  ferment  or 
cause  gas  in  the  stomach." 

FREE 

GEORGE  WASHINGTON  STORY 
BOOK  FOR  CHILDREN,  beau- 
tifully illustrated,  commem- 
orating anniversary  of  200th 
birthday  of  the  Father  of 
Our  Country.  Send  for  your 
copy  NOW ! 

ON  THE  AIR 

Every  Sunday  Afternoon 
from  2:30  to  3:00  Eastern 
Standard  Time,  the  melodi- 
ous "Ytast  Foamers"  over 
NBC-WJZ  and  all  supple- 
mentary stations  from  coast 
to  coast. 


"You'll  love  the  nutlike  fla- 
vor   of  these   yeast    tablets; 
swallow  whole  or  eat  them 
like  candy." 


Here  are  7  reasons  why  you  should  eat 
Yeast  Foam  Tablets — the  modern  form 
of  Health  Yeast — read  them  carefully 

Is  it  any  wonder  that  thousands  of  people  are  seeking  to  im- 
prove or  to  retain  their  health  and  energy  through  the  aid  of 
this  modern,  this  better  form  of  health  yeast?  Its  advantages, 
set  forth  above,  are  perfectly  apparent.  Its  potency,  in  the 
essential  B  and  G  vitamins  (hence  its  corrective  value), 
exceeds  that  of  any  other  natural  foodstuff. 

Highly  effective,  easy  and  pleasant  to  eat,  pasteurized  so 
that  they  cannot  cause  gas,  and  so  that  they  will  keep— it  is 
easy  to  see  why  Yeast  Foam  Tablets  are  preferred  by  men, 
women  and  children  everywhere. 

Remember  that  Yeast  Foam  Tablets  are  used  as  the  stand- 
ard for  research  by  leading  scientific  authorities.  Eat  them 
for  skin  and  complexion  disorders,  digestive  or  intestinal 
disturbances,  underweight,  nervous  and  rundown  conditions. 

The  10-day  bottle  costs  but  50 
cents  at  your  drug  store.  Made  and 
guaranteed  by  the  World's  Largest 
Makers  of  Dry  Yeast. 

Make  This  Simple  Test:    In  their 

feeding  habits,  animals  are  guided  by  instinct, 

by  bodily  demands,  by  Nature.    They  lack 

a  cultivated  taste.   Just  feed  your  house-pet 

Yeast  Foam  Tablets,  bearing  in  mind  that  he 

or  she  thrives  on  the  same  foods  that  nourish 

you.   Make  this  test,  note  the  excited   and  ^Kf^^  -  "^ 

pleased  reactions  of  your  pet  dog  or  cat  .  .  .      ^ftl. 

proof  that  tins  yeast  supplies  .^^^Lsr^"' 

essential  elements  lacking  in        si *"•*"  '..  ^^fl  Bk^  "v~, 

the  ordinary  diet.  my_    st 

™.^L:4>.™...£v.vv... 

SEND      FOR      FREE      S  A  MPLE 

Northwestern  Yeast  Co.,  1750  N.  Ashland  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 
Please  send  free  sample  and  descriptive  circular.  pP 

Name _ 

Address 

City 


My  Uncle  Egbert— WHOOPS— Meets  the  Stars 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  33  ' 


Uncle  Egbert  we  should  make  a  sightseeing 
tour  of  the  stars'  homes.  Maybe  we  could  peep 
through  knotholes  in  their  back  fences  and  see 
them  basking,  an  naturel,  in  the  sun  or  beating 
their  husbands. 

Nunky  said  it  sounded  like  a  punk  idea,  but 
he  couldn't  think  of  a  better  one,  so  we  drove 
to  Beverly  Hills  and  hired  one  of  the  menda- 
cious youths  who  loiter  by  the  curbsides  and 
volunteer  to  show  you  all  the  stars'  homes  for 
a  dollar — cash  in  advance. 

THE  expedition  failed.  It  started  out  well 
enough,  bent  in  the  middle  when  our  guide 
said  a  high  stone  wall  was  Harold  Lloyd's  man- 
sion and  a  locked  iron  gate  was  Pickfair,  and 
collapsed  with  a  loud  report  when  he,  miscalcu- 
lating Uncle  Egbert's  gullibility,  tried  to  palm 
off  the  grammar  school  as  Gloria  Swanson's 
little  nest  and  the  Beverly  Hills  Hotel  as  the 
domicile  of  Clara  Bow. 

After  Uncle  Egbert  bid  the  youth  a  fond  and 
profane  farewell — and  bandaged  his  skinned 
knuckles  with  a  handkerchief — he  turned  to 
me  and  made  his  position  clear.  "Listen  here, 
Bogie,  I  c'n  see  houses  anywhere.  I'm  prima- 
rily interested  in  architecture  of  the  human 
variety." 

Needless  to  say,  this  ukase  disturbed  me. 
Could  my  venerable  Uncle  Egbert — sixty- 
three  years  of  age — have  reference  to  the 
feminine  human  form  divine? 

"What's  more,"  he  declared,  "I  want  to  see 
some  real  movie  stars.  I  never  even  heard  of 
this  Clara  Swanson  and  Gloria  Bow." 

That  night  I  took  him  to  the  Roosevelt, 
hoping  to  be  able  to  show  him  how  movie  stars 
are  fed. 

We  were  no  more  than  seated  when,  right  at 
the  very  next  table — 

"Whis-s-st,  Uncle  Egbert!"  I  hissed. 
"Garbo!"  I  pointed  with  such  rude  enthusi- 
asm as  to  almost  impale  the  lady's  eye  on  my 
finger. 

Uncle  Egbert  looked,  inquired,  "What  is  a 
Garbo?" 

I  pointed  frantically. 

"Right  there,  Nunky — Greta  Garbo,  the 
great  movie  queen." 

Uncle  Egbert  looked — but  at  me.  His  visage 
was  stern. 

"Looka  here,  Bogie.  I  come  eleven  thou- 
sand miles  through  jungles  teeming  with  ven- 
omous reptiles — and  you  keep  pointin'  out  a  lot 
of  blonde  women  I  never  heard  of  before. 
What's  the  idea?" 

Somewhat  exasperated  I  said,  "Exactly 
whom  do  you  wish  to  see?" 

The  tender  light  of  love  illumined  my  dear 
old  relative's  eye.  "Theda  Bara,"  he  mur- 
mured rapturously.  "She's  the  one  I've  really 
come  to  see." 

"Theda  Bara!" 

"Yes,  sir!  That  woman's  a  revelation  in 
what  can  be  done.  Just  before  I  left  I  seen  her 
in  that  a-rag-a-bone-a-hank-of-hair  picture — 
me'n  the  king." 

Uncle  Egbert's  eyelid  drooped  in  a  devilish 
wink.  "In  fact,  that's  what  I'm  here  for — to 
invite  her  to  visit  the  king." 

WHILE  I  was  recovering  from  my  surprise 
Uncle  Egbert  went  out  for  a  cigar — he 
said  it  was  for  a  cigar. 

He  returned  beaming.  "It's  all  fixed,"  he 
said. 

"What's  all  fixed?' 

"  I  just  met  a  man  from  Iowa  who  told  me 
another  man  told  him  the  real  way  to  see  the 
studios  and  the  stars  was  on  a  big  bus  from 
downtown.  One  dollar  a  head — they  show  you 
everything." 

I  protested.  "Now,  Nunky,  I  don't  think 
those  busses — " 


Uncle  Egbert  won. 

We  saw  every  studio  in  Southern  California 
— strictly  from  the  outside. 

Fortunately  Uncle  Egbert  couldn't  complain. 
It  was  his  own  idea. 

In  desperation  I  drove  him  down  to  Malibu 
Beach — nobody  lives  there  but  motion  picture 
stars. 

We  had  a  lovely  ride  and  an  armed  guard  let 
us  get  within  nearly  a  mile  of  the  nearest  star's 
home. 

Came  evening  of  the  last  day — with  Uncle 
Egbert  hinting  darkly  of  cutting  me  out  of  his 
will. 

I  was  frantic — -when  suddenly  the  fire  of 
genius  burned. 

To  Nunky  I  said,  "Would  you  really  like  to 
meet  Theda  Bara,  Uncle  Egbert?" 

He  gave  me  a  look. 

"Didn't  I  tell  you  I  come  eleven  thousand 
miles  through  jungles  teeming  with  ven- 
omous— " 

"You  did,  Uncle  Egbert — and  meet  her  you 
shall!" 

I  rushed  to  the  corner  drug  store  and  phoned 
Imogene  Fitzfancy.  You  know  Imogene — ■ 
head  smart-cracker  of  the  Bon  Ton  Beauty 
Shoppe,  the  Wilson  Mizner  of  the  marcelling 
mamas. 

aUOTE  I:  "Imogene,  my  moonbeam, 
wouldst  commit  a  little  light  perjury  for  a 
friend?" 

Imogene  said  she  would  break  nine  of  the  ten 
commandments  for  me — and  I  could  pick  my 
own  nine. 

I  explained  my  predicament. 

"All  I  have  to  do  is  impersonate  Theda 
Bara?" 

I  said  that  was  all. 

"  Call  a  taxi  and  deliver  Uncle  Egbert  to  me. 
And  may  heaven  have  mercy  on  his  soul." 

Which  was  correct  in  the  light  of  subsequent 
events. 

I  rushed  back  to  Uncle  Egbert,  called  a  taxi, 
even  paid  the  taxi  fare. 

We  entered  Imogene's  luxurious  den. 
Imogene  was  encased  in  a  lavender  and  gold 
negligee  and  looked  like  a  marooned  mariner's 
dream.  Soft  rose-colored  lights  glowed  seduc- 
tively. 

The  air  smelled  faintly  of  Oriental  perfume. 
Imogene's  breath  smelled  strongly  of  gin.  She 
greeted  us  languidly  from  a  reclining  position 
on  an  Everest  of  silken  cushions. 

"  Uncle,"  said  I,  "this  is  Theda  Bara.  Theda, 
this  is  my  very  dear  Uncle  Egbert  from  Bongo- 
land." 

"  Bongoland?  "  said  Imogene. 

UNCLE  Egbert  was  so  flustered  he  couldn't 
talk.  I  explained  he  was  an  emissary  of  the 
king. 

Imogene  said,  "What  king?" 

"The  King  of  Bongoland." 

"Never  heard  of  him,"  said  Imogene. 

Uncle  Egbert  dragged  his  voice  out  of  hiding 
and  said,  "He's  a  black  king." 

"  Oh,"  said  Imogene,  the  light  dawning,  "like 
the  king  of  spades." 

Uncle  Egbert  reached  in  his  pocket  and  pro- 
duced a  picture  of  the  king.  His  habiliments 
included  a  white  beret,  shark-tooth  earrings,  a 
Sam  Browne  belt,  a  loin-cloth,  Congress 
gaiters  and  rubber  overshoes.  All  he  lacked 
was  a  neon  sign  saying  king. 

Uncle  Egbert  said: 

"The  king  wishes  me  to  invite  you  to  visit 
Bongoland  as  his  guest." 

Right  at  this  juncture  Imogene  said:  "How 
about  a  little  snort,  Egbert?" 

And  right  at  this  juncture  I  should  have 
packed  Uncle  Egbert  up  and  carted  him 
home. 

Unfortunately  I  didn't — and  one  snort  led 


to  another  and  presently  Uncle  Egbert  was 
phoning  for  another  case  of  gin. 

And  then,  one  by  one,  the  following  dis- 
tressing incidents  occurred. 

Imogene  rebuked  me  for  not  bringing  Uncle 
Egbert  around  to  see  her  the  minute  he  arrived 
in  town. 

She  said  she  had  always  been  nuts  to  meet 
an  emissary  of  a  king — particularly  the  king 
of  spades. 

And  Uncle  Egbert  got  pretty  mad  about  this, 
too. 

Uncle  Egbert  confided  to  me  these  movie 
queens  were  great  gals  once  you  broke  down 
their  reserve. 

In  reply  to  Imogene's  inquiry  as  to  his 
marital  state,  if  any,  Uncle  Egbert  revealed  the 
startling  information  that  he  had  seven  wives, 
which  is  no  offense  in  Bongoland.  Imogene 
said,  "Gwan — an  old  duck  like  you  with  seven 
wives!" 

Whereupon  Uncle  Egbert  bashfully  ex- 
plained when  he  was  a  younger  man  his  help- 
meets had  numbered  seventeen. 

From  then  on  Imogene  treated  him  as  an 
equal. 

She's  had  seven  husbands — although  only 
one  at  a  time. 

T  TNCLE  Egbert  expressed  a  desire  to  meet 
*-^-more  and  more  movie  queens.  Imogene  said 
his  wish  was  a  command — and  phoned  three 
other  dolls  from  the  Bon  Ton. 

When  they  arrived,  she  introduced  them  as 
Marlene  Dietrich,  Constance  Bennett  and 
Helen  Twelvetrees. 

Uncle  Egbert  said  wasn't  that  fine  and  in- 
vited them  all  to  be  the  guests  of  the  king. 

To  show  their  appreciation  they  all  drank 
seven  toasts  to  the  king.  Uncle  Egbert  said  he 
was  having  a  swell  time. 

During  a  lull  in  the  libations,  Uncle  Egbert 
removed  his  shoes  and  started  doing  tricks 
with  his  toes. 

Because  of  fourteen  years  going  practically 
barefooted  Uncle  Egbert  has  become  dread- 
fully adroit  with  his  toes.  Imogene  said  she 
had  never  kept  company  with  a  man  who  was 
so  clever  with  his  toes. 

At  11:27  Uncle  Egbert  removed  his  coat;  at 
11:31  his  vest;  his  necktie  followed  at  11:38. 
At  11:42  he  unbuckled  his  repertoire  of  native 
African  dances  and  war  whoops,  with  Imogene 
beating  a  wash-boiler  with  a  potato-smasher  in 
lieu  of  a  tom-tom. 

At  exactly  12:00  M.  the  cops  broke  in  the 
front  door  and  interrupted  Uncle  Egbert  in  the 
middle  of  a  Umangi  war  dance.  This  made 
Uncle  Egbert  pretty  sore.  Being  in  a  warlike 
mood  he  kicked  one  of  the  policemen  in  the 
chin  and  tweeked  his  nose  with  his — Uncle 
Egbert's — toes. 

This  made  the  policeman  mad  enough  to  hit 
Uncle  Egbert  with  a  chair. 

The  party  began  to  bore  me  about  then  so  I 
left.     So  did  the  girls. 

I  WAS  waiting  for  Uncle  Egbert  at  the  police 
station  when  they  brought  him  in.  I  was  really 
very  proud  of  my  old  relative.  It  took  five 
large  officers  to  handle  him.  He  sold  his 
liberty  dearly  but  was  still  able  to  protest 
loudly  that  was  a  hell  of  a  way  to  treat  an 
emissary  of  a  king. 

Next  morning  I  bailed  him  out  with  a 
hundred  dollar  bill  and  took  him  home.  He 
said : 

"Gee,  they  won't  let  you  have  any  fun  at  all 
in  this  town.  I'm  glad  I'm  going  back  to 
Bongoland." 

I  said  amen — but  not  out  loud. 

A  troubled  frown  suddenly  furrowed  Uncle 
Egbert's  brow. 

[  PLEASE  TURN  TO  PAGE  127  J 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Jeno   Irle    lo    Irieiicls    for  l^nristmas 

P|j\I(Pi/3  AM  not  just  a  little  card  or  present  that  turns  green  with  the  spring.  You  can't 
'/ir|%k  lose  me  because  on  the  15th  of  every  month  I  go  to  your  friend's  house  and  say,  "I'm 
^IfcM  here  again,  because  your  friend  wants  you  to  remember  throughout  the  year  the 
^Ie^2  thoughts  of  Christmas  time.     I  know  you'll  like  me  because  everybody  does.     I 

won't  allow  any  season  to  snuff  me  out.    I  am  Santa  Claus  throughout  the  year." 

You  cannot  send  a  more  economical  or  pleasing  gift.  Just  make  a  list  of  your  friends,  attach 
them  to  this  coupon  and  send  them  in  right  away.  You  can  send  one  or  twenty.  There's 
no  limit.    Get  your  Christmas  Shopping  off  your  mind. 


Send  $2.50  for  1  year. 

Send    4.00  for  2  years. 

Send    4.00  for  2  l'year  subscriptions. 

Send    2.00  for  each  extra  Gift  Subscription. 


2 


ONE  YEAR 
subscriptions 
to  PHOTOPLAY 
for  only 


MOO 


4 


For  Foreign  and  Canada  send  #1.00  in  addition  to  above  for  each  yearly  subscription 


This  Special  Gift  Offer  Represents  a  Saving  of  $1.00  on  Every  Two  One  Year  Subscriptions  You  Order 


Beautiful  Gift 

Announcement  C^ard 

with  each  subscription  you 
will  receive  the  beautiful  card 
shown  above  to  sign  and 
mail,  or  if  you  prefer  hand 
to    your    friend    Christmas 


Morning 


I 

L 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE, 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

I  want  to  take  advantage  of  your  offer  and  enclose  $' to  pay  for 

the  following  subscriptions: 

D  1  year. 
D  2  yean. 

Friend's  Name 

Address 

City State 

D  New.         D  Renewal. 

D  1  year. 

D  2  years. 

My  Name 

Address 

City State 

□  New.  D  Renewal. 

Use  regular  stationery  to  list  additional  subscriptions.  12-31 


1 


X;h 


x 


The  Unknown  Hollywood  I  Know 


would  accompany  me  into  the  oflke  and  intro- 
duce me  to  De  Mille.  Instead  she  merely 
llung  open  the  door  of  the  largest  room  I'd 
ever  seen  and  left  me  to  stand  there. 

The  office  was  enormous  and  very  long.  I 
had  a  vague  feeling  that  the  walls  were  heavily 
panelled  and  that  it  was  furnished  in  sump- 
tuous and  over-luxurious  elegance.  What 
seemed  to  be  miles  and  miles  of  polished  floor 
stretched  before  me.  This  desert  of  hardwood 
was  punctuated  by  a  single  oasis — a  huge 
white  bearskin  rug  flung  upon  it.  The  walls 
gave  off  an  air  of  darkness  and  'way,  'way  off 
there,  across  that  long  floor,  at  the  extreme 
other  end  of  the  room,  was  a  tremendous  desk 
behind  which  I  saw  a  gleaming  bald  head. 

I  COULD  see  nothing  else  since  the  man  who 
possessed  the  head  was  so  far  away  from  me. 
I  got  the  impression  that  there  was  a  terrific 
light  coming  from  somewhere,  a  light  focused 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  73  ] 

history  class,  love — then  we'll  say  I've  been 
in  love." 

That  wasn't  the  right  answer.  De  Mille 
didn't  like  that.  "Love  is  a  Great  Experience," 
he  said.  He  was  going  to  get  that  line  over 
whether  he  got  the  cue  or  not. 

"So  I've  heard,"  I  said.  I  was  tired.  The 
dress  weighed  a  ton  if  it  weighed  an  ounce.  A 
bead  was  biting  into  my  right  shoulder.  I 
didn't  care  at  the  moment  whether  I  worked 
for  Cecil  B.  De  Mille  or  not.  "Would  you  like 
to  hear  about  my  motion  picture  experience?" 
I  asked. 

"Life  is  the  Great  Experience,"  answered 
De  Mille.  I  started  to  say  I'd  heard  that 
somewhere  before.  But  I  didn't.  What  was 
the  use?  I  wasn't  the  conversational  type  for 
Cecil  B.  De  Mille.  So  I  thanked  him  for  the 
interview  and  left  to  breathe  the  nice  outside 
air. 


upon  the  head  and  then  shooting  forth  its  rays       A    FEW  days  later  I  was  given  a  call.   I  sat 
at  me  standing  in  the  door.     Whether  it  was     -*Mn  a  theater  and  applauded  Mi 


standing 

simply  the  expert  placing  of  the  windows  at 
the  man's  back  producing  this  effect  or  whether 
there  was  actually  a  spotlight  behind  him,  I 
do  not  know. 

I  was  too  confused.  Somehow  or  other  my 
immediate  duty  was  to  accomplish  those  miles 
of  floor — to  trail  my  poor  self,  weighted  down 
by  my  robes,  over  that  bearskin  rug.  The 
desk  and  the  bald  head  were  my  goal.  Dangling 
beads  hitting  against  my  weak  knees,  fringe 
wrapping  about  my  trembling  legs,  I  made  the 
supreme  effort  and  began  my  journey. 

They'll  never  say  an  Albert — the  old  "never- 
die-Alberts"   they  call  us — couldn't  ring  the 
bell.    I  came  through  clean!  Awed,  frightened, 
amazed,  I  walked  across  the  room.    Then,  just 
as  I  got  to  the  bearskin  rug,  I  wanted  to  laugh. 
It  impressed  me  just  at 
that  moment  as  all  too 
funny,  too  bizarre.   But 
I  didn't  laugh.  You  don't 
laugh    when    you're    in 
The  Presence. 

The  bald  head  towered 
ceilingwards.  The  great 
De  Mille,  who  was  (as 
perhaps  you've  already 
cleverly  guessed)  its  pos- 
sessor, had  risen  from 
his  desk.  We  stood 
there  looking  at  each 
other.     I  began. 

"Miss  West  dressed 
me  up  like  this,"  I  ex- 
plained. "And  I  feel 
silly." 

"You  shouldn't,"  said 
the  great  De  Mille, 
"clothes  should  be  the 
frame  for  a  woman's 
beauty." 

"Clothes  like  this?"  I 
asked,  expertly  entan- 
gling a  couple  of  hundred 
yards  of  beading  from 
another  couple  of  hun- 
dred yards  of  fringe. 

He  did  not  answer. 
Instead  he  said,  "Have 
you  ever  been  married?" 

I  shook  my  head. 

His  eyes  became  soul- 
ful and  a  vibrant  voice 
asked,  "Have  you  ever 
been  in  love?" 

Right  here  I  made  a 
mistake.  I  was  flippant. 
"If  you  call  that  feeling 
that  prompted  me  and  a 
kid  named  Latimer 
Bates  to  pass  notes  back 
and  forth  in  the  English 


applauded  Mildred  Harris 
upon  a  stage.  Dorothy  Dalton  was  in  a  box. 
She  chewed  gum  and  smoked  every  time  the 
cameras  weren't  trained  directly  upon  her. 
She  seemed  to  like  doing  that  and  chewed  the 
smoke  up  with  the  gum.  It  fascinated  me  more 
than  De  Mille's  tirades  against  the  younger 
actors  in  the  cast. 

Cecil  B.  De  Mille  was,  and  still  is,  one  of  the 
greatest  personal  showmen  of  all  time.  Not 
even  the  late  Belasco,  whom  he  imitated, 
could  beat  him. 

Through  Mary  Pickford's  casting  director  I 
got  a  few  days  extra  work  in  a  picture  that 
Lottie  Pickford  was  making.  It  was,  I  believe, 
her  last  and  it  was  never  released.  We  sat 
on  a  hill  in  Griffith  Park  and  pretended  we 
were   artists   painting   pictures.      Lottie    was 


Gosh,  how  these  stars  suffer !  Here's  Irving  Pichel  doing  a  little  high-class 
branding  on  the  fair  back  of  Tallulah  Bankhead.  It's  a  scene  from  "The 
Cheat."     "Now  you're  mine,  gal!"  snarls  Pichel.     "Yeah?"  says  Tallulah. 


tired  and  plump.  It  made  her  wheeze  to  run 
up  and  down  the  hill.  She  wasn't  much  inter- 
ested in  acting.  She  said  she  wanted  to  get 
back  home  to  see  her  baby. 

•"THEN  I  tried  the  quickie  companies.  I've 
*■  neither  the  space  nor  the  memory  to  tell  you 
all  about  that.  What  jip  outfits  they  were  in 
those  days!  There  was  a  small,  fat  Italian 
who  was  going  to  star  me  in  a  series  of  big 
pictures  and  wanted  me  to  sell  stock  in  the 
concern.  There  was  a  strange,  lanky  self- 
called  director  who  made  a  test  of  me  in  a 
funny  run  down  studio  on  Los  Angeles'  East 
Side  and,  like  De  Mille,  asked  me  if  I'd  ever 
been  in  love. 

There  was  also  a  fifth-rate  comedian  who 
made  two-reel  comedies  in  which  I  played 
leading  lady  with  fire  hoses  turned  upon  me — 
the  better  to  be  saved  from  the  burning  build- 
ing, my  dears.  The  comedian  was  the  son  of  a 
minister — he  said — and  while  protesting  a 
deeply  religious  nature,  he  told  risque  stories 
on  the  set  and  was  forever  trying  to  get  up 
parties  to  go  to  Tia  Juana  (the  smart  Agua 
Caliente  had  not  yet  been  built). 

Oh,  Hollywood  was  over-run  with  those  fiy- 
by-nighters  with  small  ideas  for  making  big 
money.  They  pass  before  my  mind's  eye — 
a  mad  pageantry  of  faces  I  remember,  names 
I've  forgotten.  Strange  and  sinister  faces 
they  were,  as  if  they  had  been  clipped  from  an 
Aubrey  Beardsley  sketch  book. 

There  is  one  more  incident  worthy  of  re- 
cording. I  was  appearing  in  some  sort  of 
charity  fete.  Mary  Miles  Minter  and  I  had 
a  booth  to  sell  dolls  or  something.  Mary  was 
a  snooty  kid.  She  was  just  about  my  age  but 
she  looked  down  her  nose  at  me  in  an  effective 
manner.  She  had  just  come  back  from  Paris — 
her  first  trip,  I  believe, 
and  when  I  asked  her 
about  it  she  said,  "Paris 
is  a  bore,  my  dear,  and 
the  clothes  that  the 
smart  houses  are  show- 
ing this  year  are  abomi- 
nable." She  was  only 
seventeen  or  eighteen  at 
the  time. 

While  I  was  busy  my 
mother  happened  to  sit 
next  to  a  woman  with  a 
sweet  little  girl.  My 
mother  admired  the  child 
whom  the  woman  told 
her  was  her  granddaugh- 
ter and  the  two  began  to 
talk  about  their  prog- 
eny. The  woman  said 
she  had  three  children — 
Lottie,  Jack  and  Mary. 
"Two  of  them,"  she  said, 
"Lottie  and  Jack  have 
been  good  children  but 
have  caused  me  many  a 
heartache,  but  I  can 
honestly  say  that  Mary 
has  never  given  me  a 
single  moment's  anxiety. 
She  is — and  I  say  this 
without  mother  pride, 
for  I'm  always  willing  to 
admit  my  own  children's 
faults — perfect." 

Mrs.  Pickford,  who 
played  such  an  impor- 
tant role  in  Mary's  life 
and,  when  she  died,  left 
her  heartbroken,  was 
talking  then,  not  for 
publication,  not  for 
effect — but  to  another 
woman,  another  mother 
whose  name  she  did  not 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


105 


know.  It  was  an  intimate  friendly  chat  and 
these  are  some  of  the  things  she  told. 

"Mary  gives  away  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
dollars  a  year.  I  know  because  I  keep  all  her 
books. 

"She  is  the  sweetest,  most  generous  person 
in  the  world. 

"/^\NCE  she  was  on  location  in  a  small  town 
^'in  Northern  California.  The  postmistress 
was  an  old  lady  with  a  bad  case  of  rheumatism, 
but  she  lived  on  the  outskirts  of  the  town  and 
had  to  walk  to  the  post-office  no  matter  what 
the  weather  was. 

"Mary  knew  that  she  could  never  learn  to 
drive  a  car,  so  she  offered  to  buy  her  a  horse 
and  buggy  to  make  the  trip  easier.  The  old 
lady  said  she  didn't  want  to  be  so  'obligated' 
by  accepting  the  gift. 

"Mary  thought  for  a  moment  and  then  said, 
'I  haven't  any  grandmother  so  I'm  going  to 
adopt  you.  People  adopt  children,  you  know, 
so  I'll  reverse  it.  I  adopt  you  and  I  guess  I 
can  buy  my  own  grandmother  a  horse  and 
buggy.'  And,  what's  more,  she  sends  a  check 
each  week  so  the  old  lady  can  have  small 
luxuries.  No  matter  how  busy  I  am  and  what 
big  checks  I  have  to  write — that  check  goes. 

"Another  time  Mary  noticed  that  a  decrepit 
gateman  at  the  studio  was  looking  thin  so  she 
sent  him  to  her  doctor,  who  said  he  wasn't 
getting  enough  nourishing  food  and  would 
have  to  have  three  or  four  fresh  eggs  every  day. 
He  didn't  have  the  money  nor  the  opportunity 
to  buy  fresh  ones. 

"Mary  worried  and  worried  and  then  she 
had  an  idea.  He  lived  in  an  out-of-the-way 
neighborhood,  so  she  sent  him  a  dozen  hens 
to  lay  eggs  for  him. 

"When  she  was  making  a  picture  once  a  goat 
was  supposed  to  butt  her.  But  the  goat  was 
temperamental  and  wouldn't  butt.  They  tried 
valiantly  but  it  was  no  use.  Mary  is  very 
religious  and  believes  in  prayer  so  she  went 
over  in  a  corner  of  the  set  and  prayed  that  the 
next  time  the  goat  would  butt  her  properly. 
'And  if  he  does,'  she  said  to  herself,  'I'm  going 
to  give  an  extra  five  hundred  dollars  to 
charity.'  She  went  into  the  scene.  The  goat 
butted  and  I  wrote  a  check  for  the  crippled 
children's  hospital." 

THE  love  and  admiration  that  Mary  Pick- 
ford  and  her  mother  bore  for  each  other  was 
one  of  the  most  beautiful  that  Hollywood  ever 
knew. 

The  movie  game  was  becoming  more  and 
more  difficult  for  me.  My  career — which, 
honesty  makes  me  admit,  had  not  been  what 
you  might  call  exactly  a  sensation — was  in  the 
doldrums. 

Extra  work  and  promises  were  about  all  I 
got,  so  I  tossed  the  remains  of  my  make-up 
kit  out  the  window  along  with  my  acting 
ambitions  and  got  a  job  on  a  newspaper. 

During  this  time  I  worked  in  Los  Angeles  and 
had  no  close  connection  with  Hollywood.  It 
was  a  few  years  later — 1925,  to  be  exact — that 
I  went  to  work  in  the  publicity  department  at 
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.  A  publicity  woman, 
I  discovered,  is  supposed  to  be  the  well  of 
understanding  and  the  mother  confessor  for 
the  stars. 

It  is  her  duty  to  get  things  in  the  paper  as 
well  as  to  keep  them  out.  She  must  see  all, 
know  all  and  tell  nothing.  Some  of  the  secrets 
told  me  and  the  sights  I  witnessed  are  almost 
too  weird  for  belief. 


But  next  month  I'll  tell  you  in- 
credible stories  of  the  stars  of  six 
years  ago.  I  learned  to  know  inti- 
mately Lillian  Gish,  Lon  Chaney, 
Jack  Gilbert,  Renee  Adoree,  Aileen 
Pringle,  Lew  Cody,  as  well  as  the 
younger  players  who  were  getting 
their  first  breaks — Greta  Garbo, 
Joan  Crawford,  Billy  Haines.  You 
may  read  their  hitherto  unpublished 
stories  in  the  January  issue  of 
Photoplay. 


GARDEN      OF    ALLAH 


C^njou  the  sports  of 


EUROPE  and  AFRICA 
/^AMERICA 

on  the  route  of  the  deluxe 

GOLDEN  STATE 
LIMITED 

CALIFORNIA 

Sports  of  Cairo,  Seville,  Monte  Carlo,  Biarritz, 
St.  Andrews,  Wimbledon,  Epsom  Downs  and  the 
old  time  West  — in  the  America  of  romance  and 
color.  Outdoor  life  in  the  land  of  the  palm  and 
oleander,  orange  grove  and  cactus  giant.  Luxu- 
rious hotels. 

AN  UNUSUAL  SERVICE 
TO  THIS  UNUSUAL  LAND 

The  Rock  Island-Southern  Pacific  is  the  direct  low  altitude 
through-service  route  to  Agua  Caliente,  San  Diego-Corona- 
do,  Los  Angeles,  Santa  Barbara.  Minimum  daylight  hours 
en  route — only  two  days  Chicago-California.  Only  through 
service  Chicago  to  El  Paso-Juarez,  Tucson,  Chandler,  Indio, 
Palm  Springs.  10  hours  quicker  Chicago-Phoenis  than  daily 
through  service  via  any  other  route. 

Stopover  at  Excelsior  Springs,  Mo. 

For  further  information  write 

L.  M.  Allen,  Vice  Pres.  and  Pass'r  Traffic  Manager 

Rock  Island  Lines 


757  La  Salle  St.  Station,  Chicago,  III. 


1159 


1  ROCK  ISLAND 


THE  ROAD  OfUMVSVAL  SERVICE 


Name. 


Address . 


NEED 

EXTRA  MONEY? 


PHOTOPLAY  now  offers  its  readers  the  opportu- 
nity to  convert  their  spare  time  into  real  money  by 
becoming  its  subscription  representatives  in  the  town 
or  community  in  which  they  live. 

You,  as  a  reader  of  Photoplay,  will  be  quick  to 
realize  the  money-making  possibilities  this  offer  affords 
you.  Your  friends — your  neighbors — in  fact,  all  the 
homes  in  your  community — are  prospective  subscribers 
for  Photoplay.     Who,  today,  is  not  interested  in 

moving  pictures — the 
chief  recreation  of  the 
American  public? 

Be  the  first  in  your  com- 
munity to  take  advantage  of 
this  offer,  and  get  started  at 
once.  The  coupon  or  a  post 
card  will  bring  further  details. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE. 

Dept.  RE-12.  919  No.  Michigan  Ave., 

Chicago,  111. 

I  am  interested  in  your  money-making  offer 
to  your  readers.    Send  me  the  details  at  once. 


City. 


.State. 


io6 


Photopxay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


(f)hic   (^a/e-The 

Socialist 

tells  about 
the 
^IDGEWAY 

Twins 


TAKE  the  Ridgeway  twins,  Ches 
and  Wal.  Looked  alike  as  two  peas 
in  a  pod.  Couldn't  tell  themselves  apart 
except  at  dinner,  and  the  only  way  they 
knew  which  was  which  then  was  because 
Ches  liked  navy  beans  :.nd  Wal  didn't. 

Well  sir,  you  might  go  so  far  as  to 
say  they  had  equal  chances  in  life  if  any 
two  young  fellers  ever  did.  It  was  this 
way  at  the  age  of  twenty  when  they  went 
to  work  in  the  bank.  Now  Ches  is  presi- 
dent of  the  bank  and  Wal  has  seven 
more  years  to  serve  at  the  penitentiary. 

It  jest  shows  home  conditions  and 
trainin'  ain't  everything.  Jest  like  Ches 
would  eat  navy  beans  and  Wal  wouldn't, 
Ches  would  eat  those  little  chocolate 
tablets  in  the  blue  tin  box,  and  Wal 
wouldn't.  Ches  felt  good  and  thought 
the  world  was  with  him  while  Wal  felt 
bad  and  thought  the  world  was  agin 
him.   So  they  traveled  different  roads. 

Of  course  I  ain't  sayin'  these  little 
tablets  will  keep  you  out  of  the  peni- 
tentiary. I'm  jest  tellin'  about  Ches  and 
Wal,  twins. 

// 


It  takes  over  30  million  boxes  of  Ex-Lax — 
those  little  chocolate  tablets  in  the  blue  tin  box 
—to  supply  the  demand  each  year. 

Ex-Lax  tastes  like  delicious  chocolate — but 
in  it  is  concealed  the  well-known  scientific 
laxative  ingredient,  phenolphthalein — of  the 
right  quality,  in  the  right  proportion,  in  the 
right  dose. 

Ex-Lax  is  safe — gentle — effective  for  young 
and  old.  At  your  druggist's —  iojf,  25^  and  50^. 

Keep  "regular"  with 

EX- LAX 

The  Chocolated  Laxative 


FREE 


SAMPLE  of  ExLaxancT 

"CHIC"  SALE'S  WELLS 

CORNERS  GAZETTE 


Namt 

Addrut . 


City Stall 

Mail  this  coupon  to  The  Ex-Lax  Co..  P.  O.  Box  170, 
t  Times  Plaza  Sea..   Brooklyn.  N.  Y.         P.  H.  121     S* 


Short  Subjects 
of  the  Month 


You'll  love  freckle-faced,  grinning  Ray  Cooke  as  Torchy, 

the  nonchalant  office  boy.     Dorothy  Dix  is  the  blonde. 

Comedy  reviewed  below 


TORCHY 

Educational-Burr 
Introducing  Ray  Cooke  and  his  engaging 
grin  in  the  first  of  a  series  of  comedies  based  on 
the  famous  "Torchy"  stories.  Torchy  is  an 
office  boy,  you  know.  Dorothy  Dix  offers  good 
blonde  interest.  Great  stuff.  You'll  be  look- 
ing for  the  next  one. 

OLD  KING  COTTON 
Paramount 
George  Dewey  Washington,  negro  singer, 
dashes  off  some  grand  tunes  in  this  dramatic 
little  short  about  a  young  darkie  who  leaves  the 
plantation  for  Harlem,  only  to  discover  that 
old  scenes  are  best.    You'll  like  it. 

THE  STARBRITE  DIAMOND 

William  J.  Burns-Educational 
In  this  latest  William  J.  Burns  mystery 
thriller,  suspicion  rests  on  everyone  at  a  house- 
party.  The  diamond  theft  and  fake  shooting 
will  hold  your  interest  right  up  to  the  last 
flicker.  The  authenticity  of  these  stories  gives 
them  added  punch. 

RHYTHMS  OF  A  GREAT  CII  Y 

Warner-Vita  phone 
This  is  German  film  art  made  in  Brooklyn, 
N.  Y. — weird  camera  angles,  flashes  that  last 
five  seconds,  street  cars,  silken  legs  and  sky- 
scrapers. Among  the  lightning-like  shots  is  the 
tragic  love  story  of  a  shop-girl  and  an  iron- 
worker.   Mad,  but  well  done. 

ISIANBUL  TO  BAGDAD 

Fox 
Different  from   the  usual   travelogue,   this 
covers  a  wide  scope.     Beautiful  photography 
adds    enchantment    to    Far    Eastern    cities. 
Worthwhile. 

SPEED 

Educational-Scnnett 
A    riotous    comedy,    and    beautiful    color 
photography    which    shows    scenic    grandeur 


from  the  Rockies  to  the  Eastern  Coast.  Andy 
Clyde,  Marjorie  Beebe  and  Alberta  Vaughn  are 
splendid  and  there's  a  water  scene  that  will 
leave  your  sides  aching. 

ROUGH  SAILING 

Warner-Vitaphone 
This  is  fast  and  it's  funny.    It's  all  about  a 
clothing  store  dummy  who  gets  mistaken  for  a 
sea  captain  and  has  to  handle  a  ship.     Joe 
Penner  is  the  lad  who  provides  the  chuckles. 

TAXI  I  ROUBLES 

Educational-Scnnett 
All  Andy  Clyde  has  to  do  is  bring  that  be- 
wildered expression  into  a  picture,  and  the 
comedy  is  funny.  This  time  Andy  is  a  taxi 
driver  with  more  troubles  than  a  traffic  police- 
man. 

SCREEN  SOUVENIRS 

Paramount 
See  this  first  of  a  series  of  cuttings  from  old 
newsreels  and  dramas.  There's  Theodore 
Roosevelt  at  the  opening  of  the  Panama  Canal; 
Christy  Mathewson  doing  his  stuff  and  bits 
from  "The  Curse  of  an  Aching  Heart."  Great 
fun. 

HONEYMOON  I  RIO 

Educational-Cameo 

Two's  company,  three's  a  crowd  when  it 
comes  to  honeymooning!  But  sad-faced  Al  St. 
John,  as  a  much  bullied  bridegroom,  finds  it 
isn't  always  easy  to  lose  a  chaperon  when  he 
happens  to  be  the  bride's  ex-suitor.  Enter- 
taining. 

I  HE  GALLOPING  GHOST 

Mascot 
Red  Grange,  football  hero,  comes  back  to  the 
screen  in  a  twelve-episode  serial  thriller.  All 
the  old-time  thrills  are  given  a  background  of 
college  football.  Grange  is  a  versatile  athlete, 
but  Francis  X.  Bushman,  Dorothy  Gulliver 
and  Gwen  Lee  take  acting  honors. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 

Addresses    of  the   Stars 


107 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Paramount  Publix  Studios 


Adricnne  Ames 
Richard  Arlen 
George  Bancroft 
Eleanor  Boardman 
William  Boyd 
John  Breedon 
Chas.  D.  Brown 
Juliette  Compton 
Jackie  Coogan 
Robert  Coogan 
Gary  Cooper 
Frances  Dee 
Marlene  Dietrich 
Claire  Dodd 
Tom  Douglas 
Junior  Durkin 
Stuart  Erwin 
Marjorie  Gateson 
Wynne  Gibson 
Mitzi  Green 
Phillips  Holmes 


Lenita  Lane 
Carole  Lombard 
Paul  Lukas 
Frances  Moffett 
Rosita  Moreno 
Jack  Oakie 
Vivienne  Osborne 
Eugene  Pallette 
Ramon  Pereda 
Irving  Pichel 
Charles  Rogers 
Jackie  Searl 
Peggy  Shannon 
Sylvia  Sidney 
Lilyan  Tashman 
Kent  Taylor 
Regis  Toomey 
Dorothy  Tree 
Allen  Vincent 
Anna  May  Wong 
Judith  Wood 


Fox  Studios,  1401  N.  Western  Ave. 


Frank  Albertson 
Hardie  Albright 
John  Arledge 
Warner  Baxter 
Joan  Bennett 
El  Brendel 
Joan  Castle 
Paul  Cavanagh 
Virginia  Cherrill 
Marguerite  Churchill 
William  Collier,  Sr. 
Roxanne  Curtis 
Jesse  DeVorska 
Donald  Dillaway 
Allan  Dinehart 
James  Dunn 
Sally  Eilers 
Charles  Farrell 
Janet  Gaynor 
Minna  Gombell 
William  Holden 
Olin  Howland 
Warren  Hymer 
J.  M.  Kerrigan 
James  Kirkwood 
Klissa  Landi 
Edmund  Lowe 
Jeanette  MacDonald 
Helen  Mack 
Kenneth  MacKenna 


Mae  Marsh 
Victor  McLaglen 
Thomas  Mcighan 
Una  Merkcl 
Don  Jose  Mojica 
Conchita  Montenegro 
Goodee  Montgomery 
Ralph  Morgan 
Greta  Nissen 
George  O'Brien 
Sally  O'Neil 
Lawrence  O'Sullivan 
Maureen  O'Sullivan 
Cecelia  Parker 
William  Pawley 
Yvonne  Pelletier 
Gaylord  Pendleton 
Howard  Phillips 
Terrance  Ray 
Manya  Roberti 
Will  Rogers 
Peggy  Ross 
Rosalie  Roy 
George  E.  Stone 
James  Todd 
Spencer  Tracy 
Linda  Watkins 
Marjorie  White 
Charles  Williams 
Elda  Vokel 


Radio  Pictures  Studios,  780  Gower  St. 


Robert  Ames 
Mary  Astor 
Roscoe  Ates 
Evelyn  Brent 
Joseph  Cawthorn 
Lita  Chevret 
Ricardo  Cortez 
Lily  Damita 
John  Darrow 
Dolores  Del  Rio 
Richard  Dix 
Irene  Dunne 
Jill  Esmond 
Noel  Francis 
Roberta  Gale 
Morgan  Galloway 
John  Halliday 
Hugh  Herbert 
Leyland  Hodgson 
Rochelle  Hudson 


Kitty  Kelly 
Geoffrey  Kerr 
Rita  LaRoy 
Ivan  Lebedeff 
Dorothy  Lee 
Eric  Linden 
Phillips  "Seth  Parker' 

Lord 
Joel  McCrea 
Ken  Murray 
Edna  May  Oliver 
Lawrence  Olivier 
William  Post 
Lowell  Sherman 
Ned  Sparks 
Ruth  Weston 
Bert  Wheeler 
Hope  Williams 
Robert  Woolsey 


United  Artists  Studios,  1041  N.  Formosa 
Ave. 


Eddie  Cantor 
Charles  Chaplin 
Ina  Claire 
Ronald  Colman 
Douglas  Fairbanks 
Jean  Harlow 


AI  Jolson 
Evelyn  Layc 
Chester  Morris 
Mary  Pickford 
Gloria  Swanson 
Norma  Talmadge 


Columbia  Studios,  1438  Gower  St. 


Eddie  Buzzell 
Richard  Cromwell 
Susan  Fleming 
Ralph  Graves 
Jack  Holt 


Buck  Jones 
Loretta  Sayers 
Barbara  Stanwyck 
John  Wayne 


Universal  City,  Calif. 
Universal  Studios 


Lew  Ayres 
John  Boles 
Lucile  Browne 
Bette  Davis 
Sidney  Fox 
Rose  Hobart 


Bela  Lugosi 
Slim  Summerville 
Sally  Sweet 
Genevieve  Tobin 
Lois  Wilson 


Culver  City,  Calif. 

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer  Studios 


Dorothy  Appleby 
Nils  Asther 
William  Bakewcll 
Lionel  Barrymore 
Wallace  Beery 
Charles  Bickford 
Herbert  Braggiotti 
John  Mack  Brown 
Jackie  Cooper 
Joan  Crawford 
Kathryn  Crawford 
Janet  Currie 
Marion  Davies 
Reginald  Denny 
Marie  Dressier 
Jimmy  Durante 
Cliff  Edwards 
Phyllis  Elgar 
Madge  Evans 
Clark  Gable 
Greta  Garbo 
John  Gilbert 
Charlotte  Greenwood 
William  Haines 
Neil  Hamilton 
Helen  Hayes 
Jean  Hersholt 
Hedda  Hopper 
Leslie  Howard 
Leila  Hyams 

RKO-Pathe  Studios 

Robert  Armstrong 
Constance  Bennett 
Bill  Boyd 
James  Gleason 
Ann  Harding 
June  MacCIoy 

Hal  Roach  Studios 


Dorothy  Jordan 
Buster  Keaton 
Marjorie  King 
Myrna  Loy 
Alfred  Lunt  and 
Lynn  Fontanne 
Joan  Marsh 
Adolphe  Menjou 
John  Miljan 
Rav  Milland 
Robert  Montgomery 
Polly  Moran 
Karen  Morley 
Conrad  Nagel 
Ramon  Novarro 
Ivor  Novello 
Monroe  Owsley 
Anita  Page 
Irene  Purcell 
Marjorie  Ram  beau 
Ruth  Selwyn 
Norma  Shearer 
Gus  Shy 
C.  Aubrey  Smith 
Lewis  Stone 
Lawrence  Tibbett 
Ernest  Torrence 
Lester  Vail 
Robert  Young 


Pola  Negri 
Eddie  Quillan 
Marion  Shilling 
Helen  Twelvetrees 
Robert  Williams 


Charley  Chase 
Mickey  Daniels 
Dorothy  Granger 
Oliver  Hardy 
Mary  Kornman 
Harry  Langdon 


Stan  Laurel 
•Gertie  Messinger 
Our  Gang 
David  Sharpe 
Grady  Sutton 
Thelma  Todd 


Burbank,  Calif. 
Warners-First  National  Studios 


George  Arliss 
John  Barrymore 
Richard  Barthelmess 
Joan  Blondell 
Lilian  Bond 
Joe  E.  Brown 
Anthony  Bushell 
Charles  Butterworth 
James  Cagney 
Ruth  Chatterton 
Donald  Cook 
Bebe  Daniels 
Douglas  Fairbanks, 

Jr. 
Kay  Francis 
Ruth  Hall 
Ralf  Harolde 


Walter  Huston 
Leon  Janney 
Evalyn  Knapp 
Winnie  Lightner 
Ben  Lyon 
Dorothy  Mackaill 
Mae  Madison 
David  Manners 
Marian  Marsh 
Marilyn  Miller 
Dorothy  Peter  on 
William  Powell 
James  Rennie 
Edward  G.  Robinson 
Loretta  Young 
Polly  Walters 
Warren  William 


Long  Island  City,  New  York 
Paramount  New  York  Studio 


Tallulah  Bankhead 
George  Barbier 
Clive  Brook 
Nancy  Carroll 
Maurice  Chevalier 
Clandette  Colbert 
Tamara  Geva 


Miriam  Hopkins 
Fredric  March 
Marx  Brothers 
Frank  Morgan 
Gene  Raymond 
Charlie  Ruggles 
Charles  Starrctt 


Hollywood,  Calif. 

Robert  Agnew,  6357  La  Mirada  Ave. 
Virginia  Brown  Faire,  1212  Gower  St. 
Lane  Chandler,  507  Equitable  Bldg. 
Lloyd  Hughes,  616  Taft  Bldg. 
Harold  Lloyd,  6640  Santa  Monica  Blvd. 
Philippe  Dc  Lacy.  904  Guaranty  Bldg. 


Los  Angeles,  Calif. 

Pat  O'Malley.  18.32  Taft  Ave. 
Herbert  Rawlinson,  1735  Highland  St. 
Ruth  Roland.  3828  Wilshire  Blvd. 
Estelle  Taylor.  5254  Los  Fcliz  Blvd. 


Gilda  Gray,  22  E.  60th  St.,  New  York 

William  S.  Hart,  Horseshoe  Ranch,  Newhall,  Calif. 

Patsy    Ruth    Miller,   808    Crescent   Drive.   Beverlv 

Hills,  Calif. 
George  K.  Arthur  and  Karl  Dane,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif. 


He  says 
"BE  YOURSELF' 

There's  No  Substitute  for 
NATURAL  LIPS 


*  *  or  TANCEE 

"Be  yourself"  is  what  he  says — or 
thinks  —  when  he  looks  at  your 
lips.  Color  ?  Of  course  .  .  .  But  not 
vivid,  carmine-smeared  lips.  They 
are  ugly,  artificial  and  OUT !  What 
he  wants  is  Naturalness  that  only 
Tangee  Lipstick  can  give  you. 

Whether  you  are  blonde,  brunette 
or  red-head,  Tangee  Lipstick, 
with  its  startling  color  principle, 
lets  you  be  yourself — for  it  re- 
tains yet  heightens  your  Natural 
color,  accentuates  the  individual 
loveliness  of  your  lips,  and  blends 
subtly  with  your  complexion.  And 
too,  Tangee  keeps  them  invit- 
ingly alluring  and  kissable. 

Tangee  is  the  world's  most 
famous  lipstick  and  is  approved 
by  the  famous  fashion  authorities, 
Harper's  Bazaar  of  New  York; 
Tatler  and  Sketch  of  London; 
Jardin  des  Modes  of  Paris. 

Tangee  is  Waterproof,  Non- 
Drying  and  Non-Greasy.  Its  Per- 
manence means  lovely  lips  for  hours. 

New!  Tangee  Theatrical,  a 
special  dark  shade  of  Tangee 
Lipstick  and  Rouge  Compact  for 
theatrical  and  evening  use. 

Try  it  today.  There  is  no  substi- 
tute for  NATURAL  lips — or 
Tangee — so  ask  for  it  by  name 
and  accept  no  substitute. 


^cA_ 


SEND  2CV  FOR  TANGEE  BEAUTY  SET 

Containing    miniature    Lipstick,    two    Rouges. 

Powder,  two  Creams  and  "The  ArtolMalce-up" 

The  George  W.  Luft  Co.,  Dept.  P10B 

417  Fifth  Avenue  New  York 

Name 

Address 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 

Screen    Memories    rrom    Photoplay 


If  you're  platinum 

/♦  j  I  Faint  make-up 
(llYltl  foryou!  If  your 
Mil  lit*    sk;*   and    hair 

are  golden-fair,  the  newest 
Po-Go  shade,  Saumon,  lends 
the  merest  touch  of  shell-pink. 

Light,  lovely,  Saumon  gives  you 
that  angelic  look  that  makes 
others  faint  with  admiration! 

Smooth,  soft,  non-gritty,  Po-Go 
Rouge  blends  beautifully,  lasts 
long.  Made  by  hand  in  France, 
it's  imported  for  (don't  faint) 
only  50c— in  five  grand  colors! 

Your  PcGo  shade  is  at  your 
favorite  toiletry  counter  —  or 
by  mail  from:  Guy  T.  Gibson, 
Inc.,  565  Fifth  Ave.,  N.  Y.  C. 

$G©ilOtfG.E 

Brique  —  medium.  Ronce  —  brunette 
raspberry.  Vi/ — a  popular  bright  shade. 
Cardinal — extremely  bright  and  lively. 
Saumon — the  lightest  for  blondes. 


Made  and 
Packaged 
In  France 


_  1931 
G.T.G.,lnc. 


Mothers . .  .Watch 
Children's  COLDS 

COMMON  head  colds  often  "settle"  in 
throat  and  chest  where  they  may  become 
dangerous.  Don't  take  a  chance— at  the 
first  sniffle  rub  on  Children's  Musterole  once 
every  hour  for  five  hours. 

Children's  Musterole  is  just  good  old  Mus- 
terole, you  have  known  so  long,  in  milder  form. 

This  famous  blend  of  oil  of  mustard,  cam- 
phor, menthol  and  other  ingredients  brings 
relief  naturally.  Musterole  gets  action  because 
it  is  a  scientific  "counter-irritant"— not  just 
a  salve— it  penetrates  and  stimulates  blood  cir- 
culation, helps  to  draw  out  infection  and  pain. 

Keep  full  strength  Musterole  on  hand,  for 
adults  and  the  milder— Children's  Musterole 
for  little  tots.  All  druggists. 


fllyiene  S"?»°E  TKeatre 

JL  and  CULTURAL  subjects  for  personal  development  —  State,  Teach- 
ing Dlrecting-Drama,  Stage  and  Concert  Dancing,  Vocal.  Screen,  Mu- 
sical Comedy,  Elocution,  Stock  Theatre  and  platform  appearances  while 
Uarning.     lor  catalog   10  apply  P.  Ely,  Secy,    66  W.  65th  St..   N.  Y. 


15  Years  Ago 


A 


Marguerite 
Clark 


LITTLE  boy  cele- 
brated his  seventh 
birthday  this  month. 
Photoplay  ran  his  picture 
along  with  that  of  his 
proud  mama  and  papa. 
The  little  boy's  name  was 
Douglas  Fairbanks,  Jr. 
Now  add  fifteen  to  seven 
and  you've  got  Joan's 
Dodo's  real  age,  unless  he 
was  kidding  us  then.  Doug,  Jr.,  won't  talk 
about  his  age  now. 

We  gave  three  rousing  cheers  and  a  tiger 
over  the  news  that  Marguerite  Clark  was 
giving  up  the  stage  completely  and  remaining 
on  the  screen.  She  was  one  of  the  brightest 
of  stars  in  those  days.  Now  she's  content  to 
play  a  starring  role  in  her  own  home  in 
Louisiana,  where  she's  happily  married  and 
is  one  of  the  social  lights  of  New  Orleans. 
It  wasn't  easy  for  an  outsider  to  open  the 
closed  book  of  Creole  society,  but  little  Mag 
has  managed  to  do  it,  just  as  she  broke  into 
movie  circles  so  long  ago. 


And  guess  what  Cal  York  was  getting 
excited  about?  The  depression — of  all  things 
— and  the  fact  that  so  many  extra  [players  were 
out  of  work.    And  that  was  fifteen  years  ago! 

The  style  in  screen  villains  has  changed. 
Stuart  Holmes,  the  most  popular  "male 
vampire,"  admitted  that  he  could  sleep  only 
in  a  round  bed  and  had  his  picture  taken  in 
one  to  prove  it. 

Our  reviewing  editor  gave  five  pages  to 
"Intolerance."  "Spades  are  not  once  termed 
garden  implements,  nor  are  kisses  paternal 
or  platonic,"  said  he  with  a  sly  wink.  In 
those  days  that  was  something  for  comment! 

"The  Common  Law,"  with  Clara  Kimball 
Young,  "Ashes  of  Embers,"  with  Pauline 
Frederick  and  "Manhattan  Madness,"  with 
Douglas  Fairbanks  were  also  reviewed. 

The  starry-eyed  beauty  on  the  cover  was 
Marie  Doro  and  the  gallery  subjects  included 
Irene  Castle,  Bryant  Washburn,  William  Des- 
mond, Bessie  Love  and  Mary  McClaren. 

Cal  York  items:  Norma  Talmadge  will 
shine  as  an  independent  star.  .  .  .  Gertrude 
Robinson  and  James  Kirkwood  are  married. 


10  Years  Ago 


Mae 
Marsh 


THE  most  important 
story  in  Photoplay 
ten  years  ago  was  called 
"The  Unhappy  Ending," 
and  the  writer  said  (with 

sssW-wtT  Just    P"0^    and    a    slight 

^^fik/^k  blush),   "The   mental 

standard  of  motion  pic- 
ture patrons  is  a  mature 
and  intelligent  type  of 
mind  which  can  grasp  and 
enjoy  both  truth  and  art."  Then  it  was  only 
the  most  daring  producer  who  would  admit  a 
screen  plot  that  did  not  end  in  a  sunlit  garden 
with  hero  and  heroine  in  one  of  those  fade- 
out  kisses.  But  times  have  changed.  Letters 
to  Photoplay  indicate  that  the  public  wants 
real,  human  situations. 

We  announced  that  little  Mae  Marsh,  of 
the  wistful  face,  was  going  to  make  a  screen 
comeback  and  we  stood  up  and  sang  a  hosanna. 
Recently  we  made  that  same  announcement. 
The  song  still  goes.  You'll  soon  be  seeing 
Mae  (so  long  in  retirement  with  her  husband 
and  children)  in  "Over  the  Hill." 


Remember  Betty  Blythe  who  was  "The 
Queen  of  Sheba"  in  six  strands  of  beads  and 
a  cloud  of  dust?  Here's  a  story  about  her  in 
which  she  admits  that  she  once  went  hungry 
and  the  writer  was  thankful  that  she  had  the 
courage  to  say  it  when  her  fans  had  thought 
of  her  as  forever  lolling  in  indolent  luxury. 

We  asked  "Why  Does  the  World  Love 
Mary?"  We  meant  Mary  Pickford,  of  course, 
who  at  that  time  stood  alone.  A  picture  of 
Constance  Talmadge  and  mama  "Peg"  was 
used.  "Peg"  is  still  going  strong  as  one  of 
Hollywood's  favorite  wits. 

Mary  Pickford's  "Little  Lord  Fauntleroy" 
and  Charlie  Chaplin's  "The  Idle  Class"  got 
the  two  long  reviews,  but  we  were  enthusiastic 
over  Pola  Negri's  "One  Arabian  Night"  and  a 
film  called  "Bits  of  Life"  in  which  an  actor 
named  Lon  Chaney  did  a  small  role. 

From  the  cover  Lillian  Gish's  quaint  smile 
shone   through  a  mass  of  tulle. 

Cal  York  items:  Gloria  Swanson  and  Herb 
Somborn  (now  proprietor  of  a  string  of  Holly- 
wood restaurants)  have  definitely  split  and 
Gloria  declares  she  will   never  marry  again. 


5  Years  Ago 


Greta 
Garbo 


THIS  was  the  month  of 
Greta  Garbo's  second 
picture!  Can  you  believe 
that  the  lady  of  the 
Scandinavias  has  been 
with  us  for  only  five  years? 
"The  Temptress"  caused 
a  sensation.  It  was  so 
good  that  it  got  editorial 
comment  and  we  re- 
marked that  "Greta 
Garbo,  under  Fred  Niblo's  subtle  direction, 
puts  over  a  new  kind  of  vampire."  Garbo, 
always  ahead  of  her  time,  was  then  starting 
the  glamour  school.  It  took  five  years  for 
others  to  catch  on.  The  rest — Dietrich, 
Chatterton,  Bankhead  and  Landi — had  not 
then  set  foot  in  Hollywood. 

We  wrote  a  large  welcome  on  the  mat  for 
Emil  Jannings.  Already  a  big  shot  in  Europe, 
he  had  just  come  to  America.  He  didn't 
know  then  that  in  a  few  short  years  the 
hysteria  caused  by  the  microphone  would 
drive  him  back  home  before  it  was  realized 
that  his  accent  only  added  to  his  artistry. 


The  Photoplay  Gold  Medal  for  the  best 
picture  of  the  year  was  awarded  to  "The  Big 
Parade."  (This  year  another  war  film,  "All 
Quiet  on  the  Western  Front,"  walks  away 
with  the  medal.) 

John  Barrymore  was  a  startling  figure  who 
said  startling  things.  With  his  famous  nose 
tilted  upwards  he  remarked,  "Hollywood  can't 
exist — but  it  does!"  He  was  appalled  by  the 
"stupidity  of  the  film  colony."  Now  he  owns 
one  of  the  finest  homes  in  Beverly  Hills  and  is 
a  family  man  with  a  wife  and  baby.  What's 
more,  he  seems  to  like  living  in  Hollywood. 

"The  Winning  of  Barbara  Worth,"  "Sor- 
rows of  Satan,"  "The  Quarterback"  and  "The 
Better  Ole"  received  favorable  comment. 
Aileen  Pringle  graced  the  cover,  with  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Lowell  Sherman  (Pauline  Garon,  who 
isn't  Mrs.  Sherman  any  more) ,  Vera  Reynolds, 
Corinne  Griffith,  George  O'Brien,  Adolphe 
Menjou,  Belle  Bennett  and  Carol  Dempster 
in  the  gallery. 

Cal  York  items:  Constance  Talmadge  and 
Alastair  Mackintosh  are  quits.  Connie  has 
patched  up  her  difficulties  with  Buster  Collier. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


109 


The  Comeback  Champ 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  45  ] 


in  Paterson,  New  Jersey.  A  paper  had  printed 
he  was  an  old  stock  player.  People  must  never 
know  this  was  his  initial  stage  appearance. 

A  reporter  came  back  after  the  performance. 
"Vaudeville  isn't  so  different  from  stock,  is  it, 
Mr.  Cortez?"  He  shook  his  head.  He  didn't 
speak;  his  teeth  chattered. 

"  You  proved  you  were  an  old  hand,  all 
right." 

He  is  prouder  of  his  vaudeville  success  than 
any  which  may  come  to  him.  He  will  talk  by 
the  hour,  if  you  let  him,  of  how  he  sang  for  the 
first  time  in  Boston.  He'd  never  sung  in  public 
before  in  his  life.  No  training.  But  he  was 
fighting  for  bread  and  butter.  People  do  what 
they  have  never  done  before  for  bread  and 
butter. 

A  breakdown.  Alma  was  playing  in  vaude- 
ville in  the  same  section  of  the  country.  She 
was  fighting  another  kind  of  fight.  She  was 
losing.  The  long  strain  of  the  past  three  and  a 
half  years  was  too  much  for  the  husband.  He 
cancelled  his  tour  and  took  the  money  he  had 
made  and  went  to  Europe. 

There,  Ricardo  Cortez  thought  it  over. 
Fight  had  been  born  during  the  vaudeville  tour. 

You  have  seen  the  sun  burst  through  black 
clouds  when  the  storm  has  spent  its  power? 
The  sun  burst  through  Ricardo  Cortez'  life 
when  he  returned  from  Europe.  A  telegram 
from  Pathe  asked  if  he  was  open  for  picture 
engagements.  What  had  happened  in  Holly- 
wood, he  didn't  know;  he  doesn't  know  today. 
But  picture  producers  have  a  way  of  forgetting 
the  past  when  vaudeville  producers  prove 
there  is  box-office  in  the  present.  He  took  an 
airplane  to  Hollywood  at  his  own  expense.  He 
made  "Her  Man."  It  was  the  elevator  from 
the  bottom  of  that  toboggan  slide. 

How  the  man  on  that  elevator  had  changed 
from  the  one  who  stood  on  the  peak  four  years 
before!  Charles  Rogers,  head  Hollywood  pro- 
ducer for  Pathe,  said  he  thought  William  Le 
Baron  at  the  sister  studio,  Radio,  would  give 


Cortez  a  contract.  Lc  Baron  told  him  at  two 
o'clock  one  afternoon  that  he  would  let  Cortez 
know  by  six  that  evening. 

Ricardo  went  home  and  waited.  He  admits 
his  nerves  were  frayed,  and  he  doesn't  hang  his 
head  when  he  tells  it.    He  also  prayed. 

Salary?  Parts?  He  would  leave  them  to 
fate  and  his  own  ability — once  he  secured 
steady  employment. 

They  gave  him  the  contract.  He  has  played 
the-man-after-the-other-man's-wife  ever  since. 
Now,  they're  going  to  remove  him  from  the 
stereotyped  role  and  make  him  a  hero.  He 
plays  Mary  Astor's  love-interest  in  a  new 
film  for  Radio  Pictures. 

His  brother  lives  in  his  big  house  at  Beverly. 
Ricardo  lives  in  an  apartment.  He  has  no 
valet;  no  chauffeur;  no  secretary.  He  plays 
golf,  rides  and  plays  polo.  "I  play  on  other 
people's  horses;  I  can't  afford  a  string.  I  would 
like  to  play  on  Darryl  Zanuck's  team,  but  I 
would  have  to  get  my  own  horses.  I  can't  do 
it." 

"You  don't  talk  like  an  actor,  Mr.  Cortez," 
I  ventured. 

"I  wasn't  one  for  so  long  that  I  hope  I 
learned  something  about  being  a  man,"  he 
answered. 

You  know,  I  really  like  these  people  better 
when  they  are  comebacks.  Gloria  Swanson 
had  a  bodyguard  when  she  first  hit  the  big 
money.  Not  today.  Joan  Crawford  has  one 
today.  But  Joan  has  never  slid  down  the 
toboggan.  '  'Bad  Girl  "  was  Sally  Eilers'  eleva- 
tor, and  it  is  the  best  picture  she  has  made, 
before  or  since. 

Ben  Lyon  was  formerly  a  national  play-boy. 
Since  his  comeback  he  is  a  model  husband  and 
father.  Pola  Negri  is  a  different  human  be- 
ing, she  thinks  of  others — and  all  Hollywood 
loves  her  now. 

Yes,  those  who  live  in  our  little  hamlet  of 
comebackers  prove  the  one-word  explanation 
of  the  champion.     "  Fight!" 


what  fun  to  be 
good-looking! 


Here's  a  brand-new  one!     Marjorie  King, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer actress, 

makes  sure  of  remembering    Bob  Montgomery's  birthday  by  pasting  his 

picture  on  her  calendar.    But  she  was  pretty  sad  just  the  same  when  Jack 

Gilbert  left  for  Europe 


WHEN  poisons  collect  in  the  system, 
you  can  count  on  missing  many  a 
good  time !  Nobody  is  attracted  to  the  mud- 
died skin  and  dull  eyes  and  slow  wits  that 
show  you've  neglected  internal  cleanliness ! 

Keep  clean  within — with  the  saline  treat- 
ment— and  watch  your  charm  come  back! 
You'll  have  a  clear  complexion,  bright 
eyes,  and  sparkle! 

Keep  internally  clean  with  Sal  Hepatica. 
A  laxative?  Yes.  But  don't  get  Sal  Hepatica 
confused  with  ordinary  laxatives.  For  Sal 
Hepatica  is  a  saline.  It  contains  the  same 
salines  as  do  the  waters  of  the  European 
spas  where  thousands  of  Continentals  go 
to  recover  their  vitality  and  health! 

Because  Sal  Hepatica  is  a  saline,  it  can't 
irritate  the  normal  digestive  tract.  It  isn't 
habit-forming.  And  if  you're  trying  to 
reduce,  remember  this  —  Sal  Hepatica  never 
has  a  tendency  to  make  its  users  stout. 

Rid  your  body  of  wastes  with  Sal  Hepatica 
—begin  today — and  find  out  what  it  is  to 
be  good-looking  and  to  feel  fine! 

Sal  Hepatica 

helps    you   to   enjoy    life    morel 

Write  Bristol-Myers  Co.,  Dept.        ^ 
G-121,  71  West  St.,  New  York 
City,  for  a  free  booklet,  "To 
Clarice  in  Quest  of HerYouth.  " 


i 


11V 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


NATALIE  MOORBEAD.  OOROEOT7S  RADIO  PlCTCRrS    STAB 

Beautify  your  eyes,  this  marvelous,  new, 
easy  way.  Give  them  a  dense,  rich  fringe 
of  dark,  long-appearing  lashes,  instantly 
with  the  new  Maybelline.  This  truly 
wonderful  preparation 

— is  very  much  easier  to  apply 

— positively  uull  not  smart  your  eyes  if 

accidentally  gotten  into  them 
— u>ill  not  run  or  smear  with  tears  or  rain 
— toill  not  make  your  lashes  Brittle 
— eontains  oils  that  will  taii  to  stimulate 

the  groiutfi  of  your  lashes 
— removes  easily  with  soap  ani  water  or 
with  cold  cream. 
Already,  countless  thousands  have  voiced 
enthusiastic  approval  of  this  new  eye  cos- 
metic.You  will  like  it,  too.  Blackor Brown 
-75c  at  leading  toilet  goods  counters. 

For  10c  and  coupon  below  we  will 
send  Special  Purse  Size  for  trial 


[or   IOC  AND  THIS  COUPON 

Maybelline  Co.,  5912-N  Ridge  Ave.,  Chicago 
10c  enclosed.  Send  me  Purse  Size  Package  of 
the  new  Maybelline.       □  Black        □  Brown 


Name... 
AA&rcss.. 


Brief  Reviews  of  Current  Pictures 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE   16  ] 


SIDE  SHOW— Warners.— Winnie  Lightner  and 
Charles  Butterworth  try  hard,  but  the  un-funny 
lines  are  distressing.     A  circus  story.     (Sept.) 

SIDEWALKS    OF    NEW   YORK— M-G-M  —  A 

laugh  a  moment  and  just  the  right  number  of 
moments  with  "dead  pan"  Buster  Keaton,  Cliff 
Edwards  and  Anita  Page.     (Oct.) 

SILENCE  —  Paramount.  —  Sure-fire  melodrama 
with  a  punch.  Clive  Brook,  Marjorie  Rambeau  and 
Peggy  Shannon.     (Oct.) 


6  CYLINDER  LOVE- 

with  a  pretty  obvious  plot. 


Fox. — An  amusing  farce 
(July) 


SKIN  GAME,  THE— British  International.— 
Pretty  tedious.  An  excellent  English  cast,  however. 
(Sept.) 

SKYLINE — Fox. — Thomas  Meighan  builds  sky- 
scrapers and  saves  Hardie  Albright  from  vamp 
Myrna  Loy.     Good  entertainment.    (Oct.) 

SKY  RAIDERS,  THE— Columbia.— Gangsters  in 
the  air!  Thrilling  stuff  and  good  entertainment. 
(July) 

•     SMART  MONEY— Warners.— Moves  as  fast 
as  the   money  on   the   gambling  tables  in  it. 
Plenty  of  laughs  and  excitement.     (July) 

SMART  WOMAN— Radio  Pictures.— What  a 
performance  Mary  Astor  gives  and  in  what  beautiful 
clothes!  A  charming,  sophisticated  yarn  of  the 
"Holiday"  school.     (Oct.) 

•  SMILING  LIEUTENANT,  THE  —  Para- 
mount.— One  of  the  breeziest  and  most  tuneful 
entertainments  in  a  long  time.  Chevalier  at  his  best, 
under  Lubitsch  direction.     See  it.     (July) 

SOB  SISTER— Fox.— You'll  like  this  fast  news- 
paper yarn  and  Linda  Watkins.  Jimmie  Dunn  is 
grand,  too.     (Nov.) 

SON  OF  INDIA— M-G-M.— A  fairy-tale  sort  of 
thing  with  Ramon  Novarro  as  Prince  Charming. 
If  you  like  Oriental  romance,  this  is  it!     (Aug.) 

SPIDER,  THE — Fox. — Thrills  and  shivers  over  a 
murder  in  a  theater.  Eddie  Lowe  is  grand  and 
suspense  is  geared  on  high.     (Oct.) 

SPORTING  BLOOD— M-G-M.— The  biography 
of  a  race  horse.  Not,  interested?  All  right,  then, 
Clark  Gable  has  a  featured  role.  That  should  get 
you.    It's  a  good  movie.    (Sept.) 


•     SQUAW     MAN,     THE— M-G-M.— A     new 
version  of  a  grand  old  story.      See  it  by  all 
means.     Warner  Baxter  and  Lupe  Velez.     (Aug.) 

•  STAR  WITNESS,  THE— First  National  — 
At  last!  An  entirely  new  plot  with  suspense, 
humor,  heartache.  Walter  Huston,  Chic  Sale  and 
Frances  Starr  are  in  it.    Worth  your  time.     (Sept.) 

•  STREET  SCENE— United  Artists.— Thirty- 
four  excellent  actors  and  super-direction  by 
King  Vidor  make  this  one  of  the  great  pictures  of 
the  year.  A  vivid  cross-section  of  life  you'll  never 
forget.     (Oct.) 

STUDENT'S  SONG  OF  HEIDELBERG,  A 
EIn  BurschenHed  Aus  Heidelberg)— UFA.— Rol- 

icking  tunes,  students  and  Heidelberg  campus  stuff. 
Even  if  you  don't  know  German  you'll  enjoy  it.   (Nov.) 

SUBWAY  EXPRESS— Columbia.— Jack  Holt  in 
a  thrilling  mystery  of  the  stage  that  lost  its  kick  in  the 
movie  version.    (July) 

SUNDOWN  TRAIL— RKO-Pathe  —  Good  acting 
helps  a  poor  Western.     (Oct.) 

•  SUSAN  LENOX,  HER  FALL  AND  RISE 
— M-G-M-. — Romance  spread  thick,  passion 
strong.  You  Garbo-maniacs  will  eat  it  up.  Clark 
Gable  plays  opposite.    Don't  miss  it.    (Sept.) 

SVENGALI — Warners.  —  Well  worth  seeing  for 
John  Barrymore's  superb  performance  in  the  title 
role.  The  story  is  rather  gruesome.  Don't  take  the 
children.     (June) 

SWEEPSTAKES — RKO-Pathe.— Some  romance, 
thrills  and  fast  lines  in  a  race-track  yarn.  Quillan 
and  Gleason  take  honors.     (Aug.) 


TARNISHED  LADY— Paramount.— Introducing 
Tallulah  Bankhead,  from  Alabama  and  the  London 
stage,  in  a  heavy  love  dtama.  Clive  Brook  is  the  lead- 
ing man.     (June) 

TEXAS  RANGER,  THE— Columbia.— Carmelita 
Geraghty  is  the  gal.  Buck  Jones  the  hero.     (July) 

THIRTEEN    MEN    AND    A    GIRL— UFA.— A 

dreary   tragedy.    Foreign   made,    English   dialogue. 
(Oct.) 


THIS   MODERN   AGE— M-G-M— Joan   Craw- 
ford   lovely  -and    dripping    box-office    appeal    in    a 

ridiculous  story.      (Nov.) 


THREE  LOVES— Terra.— Marlene  Dietrich  is 
the  only  reason  for  seeing  this  three-year-old  Ger- 
man silent.    (Aug.) 


THREE  WHO  LOVED— Radio  Pictures.— Ex- 
cellent acting  by  Betty  Compson  and  Conrad  Nagel 
in  a  production  that  suffers  from  too  much  story. 
(Aug.) 


TOO  MANY  COOKS  —  Radio  Pictures.  —  Bert 
Wheeler's  first  starring  picture,  minus  Mr.  Woolsey. 
Plenty  of  laughs,  some  lumps  in  the  throat  and  Doro- 
thy Lee  as  the  heart  appeal.     (June) 


•  TRANSATLANTIC  —  Fox.  —  Edmund  Lowe 
and  Greta  Nissen  plus  an  exciting  melodramatic 
plot,  make  this  one  of  those  hit  pictures  you  mustn't 
fail  to  see.     (Sept.) 


TRANSGRESSION— Radio  Pictures.— The  same 
old  angle  of  the  eternal  triangle.  Kay  Francis  wears 
swell  clothes.     (Aug.) 


TRAPPED — Big  Four. — Fights,  songs,  gangster?, 
night  clubs,  murders,  chases,  plus  a  confused  plot. 
(June) 

TRAVELING  HUSBANDS— Radio  Pictures. 
Risque  but  not  objectionably  so.  Top-notch  acting, 
with  Evelyn  Brent  in  the  lead.    (July) 

TWO-GUN  MAN,  THE— Tiffany.— A  Western  in 
old  swashbuckling  style,  nothing  new  but  good  enter- 
tainment.    Ken  Maynard  and  horsel     (Aug.) 


•     24  HOURS— Paramount.— It's  not  only  good 
but  different.     Kay  Francis  and  Clive  Brook 
are  grand.     (Nov.) 

UNHOLY  GARDEN,  THE— United  Artists.— 
Far-fetched  melodrama  and  romance  in  a  Sahara 
castle,  with  Ronald  Colman  working  hard  to  save 
the  impossible  story.     (Oct.) 


UP  POPS  THE  DEVIL— Paramount.— Young 
love  and  its  struggles  neatly  handled  by  Norman 
Foster,  as  a  young  author,  and  his  wife,  played  by 
Carole    Lombard.      Sprightly    dialogue.     (July) 


•  VICE  SQUAD,  THE— Paramount.— Besides 
being  something  that  will  keep  you  interested, 
this  is  a  picture  you'll  think  about.  Paul  Lukas,  Kay 
Francis  and  Helen  Johnson  are  excellent.     (July) 


VIKING,  THE— Varick  Frissell  Production.— A 
picture  of  the  boat  that  met  Arctic  tragedy.  Good 
photography.    (Aug.) 

VIRTUOUS  HUSBAND,  THE— Universal.— One 
of  those  over-sexed  things.  Starts  off  to  be  a  howl 
and  then  goes  serious  and  ends  by  being  pretty  bad. 
(J-une)i 

WAITING  AT  THE  CHURCH— Radio  Pictures. 
— An  amusing  story  with  lovely  Technicolor  effects. 
(July) 

•  WATERLOO  BRIDGE  —  Universal.  —  It's 
morbid,  yes,  but  it's  intelligent  and  honest 
screen  fare.  A  war  background,  but  don't  let  that 
stop  you.     You'll  like  Mae  Clarke.     (Sept.) 

WEST  OF  BROADWAY— M-G-M.— John  Gil- 
bert's voice  is  low — so  is  the  entertainment  value  of 
the  picture.  Jack  is  a  war  veteran  with  six  months 
to  live.     (Oct.) 


WHITE  DEVIL,  THE— UFA.— Russians  in  big 
fur  hats  are  doing  serious  things  again.  You  need  not 
bother.     (Nov.) 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


1  I  1 


WHITE  SHOULDERS— Radio  Pictures.— Rex 
Beach's  dramatic  story  makes  an  interesting  picture. 
Jack  Holt,  Mary  Astor  and  Ricardo  Cortez  form  the 
triangle.     (July) 

WICKED  —  Fox.  —  Elissa  Landi  and  Victor 
McLaglen  are  good  in  a  too  heavy  drama  about  a 
bank  robber  and  his  wife  who  go  to  jail.     (Oct.) 

WILD  HORSE— Allied.— Hoot  Gibson  captures  a 
wild  horse,  a  bank  bandit,  a  murderer  and  his 
audience's  approval,  all  in  one  handsome  gesture. 
(Sept.) 

WOMAN  BETWEEN,  THE— Radio  Pictures.— 
Heavy  drama  with  lots  of  emotion  and  a  song  from 
Lily  Damita.  Miriam  Seegar  is  the  one  bright  spot. 
(June) 

WOMAN  OF  EXPERIENCE,  A— RKO-Pathe.— 
Only  average  entertainment,  in  spite  of  a  cast  which 
does  its  best.  Helen  Twclvetrees,  ZaSu  Pitts  and 
Lew  Cody.     (July) 

WOMEN  GO  ON  FOREVER— Tiffany-Cruze.— 

Your  old  friend  Clara  Kimball  Young  makes  a  good 
comeback  in  this  story  of  racketeers  and  illicit  love. 
A  lively  film  with  plenty  of  comedy  relief.     (Sepl.) 


WOMEN  LOVE  ONCE— Paramount.— Produc- 
ers wasted  their  time  and  that  of  Eleanor  Boardman 
and  Paul  Lukas  on  this  one.    (A  ug.) 

WOMEN  MEN  MARRY  —  Headline  Prod.  — 
Don't  take  this  picture  too  seriously  and  you  may 
not  find  it  too  dull.  Sally  Blane  is  nice  and  Natalie 
Moorhead  wears  startling  clothes.     (Sept.) 

WOMEN  OF  ALL  NATIONS  — Fox.— Edmund 
Lowe  and  Victor  McLaglen  as  Quirt  and  Flagg  of 
"What  Price  Glory"  fame,  continue  their  adventures. 
Good,  rough  entertainment,  but  not  a  Sunday  school 
text.     (July) 

YOUNG  AS  YOU  FEEL— Fox.— Another  grand 
Will  Rogers'  film,  funny  enough  to  make  you  forget  a 
toothache.     (July) 

•  YOUNG  DONOVAN'S  KID— Radio  Pic- 
tures.— Good.  From  Rex  Beach's  story  "Big 
Brother."  Little  Jackie  Cooper  practically  steals  the 
show  in  spite  of  Dix's  excellent  work.     (July) 

YOUNG  SINNERS— Fox.— The  old  story  of 
modern  kids  in  a  jazz  and  cocktail  setting.  Thomas 
Meighan  is  a  bright  spot,  Dorothy  Jordan  and  Hardie 
Albright  give  an  exhibition  of  couch  wrestling.   (July) 


Two    ex-Paramounters    and    sometime-rumored    sweethearts!      Buddy 
Rogers  and  Mary  Brian  at  Marion  Davies'  welcome  home  party  in  Holly- 
wood.   Mary  is  free-lancing — Bud  has  organized  a  jazz  band.    And  both 
look  handsome  and  prosperous 


BETTER  BRISTLES 

THAT  KEEP  THEIR 

BETTER  SHAPE 

Give  Tek  the  most  strenuous  sort  of 
a  workout,  morning  and  night.  Even 
after  months  of  daily  brushing  and 
drenching  in  water  it  cleans  teeth 
better  and  vitalizes  gums.  Better 
Shape,  Tek  fits  even  the  sharp  curve 
behind  your  front  teeth.  Better 
Bristles,  Tek  removes  stains  and 
prevents  the  accumulation  of  tartar. 
With  its  Better  Shape  and  Belter 
Bristles  Tek  is  a  Better  Value.  It 
costs  no  more  than  old-style  brushes. 
Sterilized,  Cellophane- sealed,  a 
guaranteed  product  of  the  world's 
largest  makers  of  dental  accessories. 

Genu  *ou  «womt  ^ovt 


the   modern 

TDOTH  BRUSH 


I  1  2 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


I  10  gueSsworl 

ll6r6  /     SAYS   SANTA 


xphndcm  offers 


TABLEAU  by  Johnston  is  a  totally  new 
idea  in  candy  packaging!  Wherever 
you  live,  you  now  can  buy  candy  from  a 
famous  maker— and  be  sure  of  perfect, 
glowing  freshness  every  time! 

The  package  is  smart,  sparkling,  modern. 
A  package  you  can  give  with  pride  .  . . 
but  amazingly  uncostly.  And.there's  an 
assortment  for  every  taste  and  purse! 

For  gifts,  for  personal  enjoyment,  why 
risk  inferior  candies  ever?  .  .  .  now  that 
Johnston  offers  freshness  you  can  see. 


"My  3  Nicest  Parties"  is 
fascinating  booklet  corn- 
led  by  the  Johnston  Party 
Bureau,  for  women  who  like 
to  entertain  charmingly.  The 
booklet  is  free —  write  for  it. 


$ 


ROBERT  A.JOHNSTON  CO.  13- 

Milwaukee,  Wisconsin. 

Please  send  me  free  booklet  "My  3  Nicest  Parties." 


Address.. 


City- 


(Questions   0£  An 


swers 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE 


Montgomery.  For  several  years  he  appeared 
on  the  stage  under  the  name  of  Douglass  Mont- 
gomery. When  he  entered  pictures  he  had  to 
change  his  name  so  that  people  wouldn't  get 
him  confused  with  Bob  Montgomery,  also  at 
M-G-M.  His  first  talkie  was  "Paid,"  in  which 
he  appeared  with  Joan  Crawford.  At  this 
writing  he  is  back  on  the  Broadway  stage  again 
under  the  name  of  Douglass  Montgomery,  ap- 
pearing opposite  Fay  Wray  in  "Nikki." 
Kent's  latest  picture  is  "Waterloo  Bridge" 
with  Mae  Clarke. 

Marian  L.  Ross,  Oakland,  Calif. — Your 
old  friend  Pat  O'Malley  is  appearing  in  "The 
Homicide  Squad"  for  Universal.  Others  who 
appear  in  this  picture  are  Leo  Carrillo,  Mary 
Brian,  Noah  Beery  and  Russell  Gleason. 

Margaret  Wehr,  Tecumseh,  Mich. — ■ 
"The  Magic  Garden"  was  released  in  1927. 
Margaret  Morris  and  Raymond  Keane  played 
the  leads.  Douglas  Fairbanks  made  a  picture 
titled  "  The  Black  Pirate"  in  1926.  Billie  Dove 
was  his  leading  lady. 

Adamae,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. — You  are  quite 
right.  Richard  Bennett  was  Connie's  reel 
father  in  "  Bought,"  and  he  is  her  real  father, 
too. 

Mary  Hardy,  St.  Louis,  Mo. — Your  little 
puzzle  was  really  quite  simple.  Raymond 
Milland  was  the  rich  young  fellow  that  Connie 
Bennett  was  engaged  to  in  "Bought." 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Wilson,  Detroit,  Mich. 
— Here  is  the  information  you  want  for  your 
scrap-book.  Olive  Thomas  was  born  in 
Charleroi,  Penna.,  Oct.  29,  1898.  She  died  in 
Paris,  Sept.  10,  1920.  William  Russell's  real 
name  was  William  Lerche.  Earle  Williams  al- 
ways used  his  own  name  in  pictures.  He  was 
born  in  Sacramento,  Calif.,  Feb.  28,  1895,  and 
died  April  25,  1927.  Alma  Rubens  was  a 
native  of  San  Francisco. 

F.  Leslie  Kelly,  Rochester,  N.  Y. — You 
picked  a  promising  young  star  when  you  chose 
David  Manners  for  your  favorite.  David  was 
born  April  30,  1902,  stands  6  feet  tall,  weighs 
169  and  has  brown  hair  and  green-gray  eyes. 
He  hails  from  Halifax,  Nova  Scotia. 

Vera  Dohm,  New  York  City. — Yes,  Vera, 
Clark  Gable  has  made  many  a  fair  movie- 
goer's pulse  race.  Clark  was  born  in  Cadiz, 
Ohio,  Feb.  1,  1901.    He  stands  6  feet,  1  inch  in 


height;  weighs  190  and  has  brown  hair  and 
grey  eyes.  That's  his  own  name  he  uses  in 
pictures.  Clark  has  been  married  three  times. 
Don't  be  alarmed,  he  married  his  second  wife 
twice.  That's  what  you  call  making  it  a  sure 
thing,  eh?  Over  a  year  ago  he  married  Ria 
Langham  in  an  Eastern  city  before  his  Cali- 
fornia divorce  from  his  first  wife  became  final. 
Therefore,  the  second  marriage  wasn't  recog- 
nized out  there.  When  picture  plans  demanded 
that  Clark  remain  in  California,  he  and  his  wife 
were  remarried  there  to  avoid  any  legal  tangles. 
His  next  picture  will  be  "Hell  Divers." 

Hilda  Emerick,  Dayton,  Ohio. — The  lad 
who  played  opposite  Alice  White  in  "The  Girl 
fromWoolworth's"  was  Charles  Delaney.  Alice 
is  now  busy  making  personal  appearances  via 
the  vaudeville  stage. 

A.  C,  Buffalo,  N.  Y.— BRRRR!    How  I 

shudder  when  I  have  to  answer  questions  about 
Bela  Lugosi.  If  I  don't  say  the  right  things 
about  him,  he's  liable  to  pop  out  of  an  ink-well 
or  the  waste-basket  and  chase  me.  Bela  left 
his  native  soil,  Lugos,  Hungary,  in  1921,  and 
came  to  America.  He  appeared  in  a  great 
many  plays  and  then  made  several  silent 
pictures.  Later  he  returned  to  the  stage,  com- 
ing back  to  the  screen  after  the  advent  of  the 
talkies.  His  most  recent  pictures  are  "The 
Thirteenth  Chair,"  "  Such  Men  Are  Danger- 
ous," "Dracula,"  which  he  also  played  on  the 
stage,  "Women  of  AH  Nations,"  and  "The 
Black  Camel."  His  next  will  be  "Murders  in 
the  Rue  Morgue."  Bela  recently  took  the  oath 
of  allegiance  to  the  United  States. 

Bertha  Bryon,  Jacksonville,  Fla. — 
Bertha,  you  have  'em  all  wrong.  There  are 
plenty  of  movie  actors  and  actresses  who  have 
stayed  married.  For  instance,  Thomas 
Meighan,  Jack  Holt,  Warner  Baxter,  Jack 
Mulhall,  Esther  Ralston,  Joe  E.  Brown  and 
Mae  Marsh  have  all  been  married  to  their  same 
mates  for  ten  years  or  more. 

Rosie,  Portland,  Ore. — What  is  this  you 
would  have  me  do?  Tickle  the  tootsies  of  the 
stars  till  they  tell  me  the  size  of  their  shoes? 
Well,  here  they  are:  Gloria  Swanson  has  a  pair 
of  the  smallest  feet  in  filmdom.  She  wears  size 
1/4-  Janet  Gaynor,  wears  size  3;  Joan  Craw- 
ford, size  V/r,  Mary  Brian,  Norma  Shearer  and 
Bebe  Daniels  each  wear  size  4)^;  Clara  Bow 
and  Marion  Davies,  size  5;  and  Greta  Garbo 
wears  size  5HAAA. 


The  Answer  Man   Says 

"The  women-folks  certainly  are  interested  in  that  lad  Fredric 
March.  There's  not  a  month  when  the  questions  about  him  don't  roll 
in,  even  though  he's  one  of  the  married  stars  that  act  married." 

This  month,  on  page  52,  you  will  find  a  story  about  Fred  and  wife 
Florence  Eldridge  and  their  moving-day  woes — an  amusing,  human 
story  about  interesting,  real-folks  people. 

And  next  month  there  will  be  more,  for  you  girls  who  want  to  know 
all.  Fred's  sister-in-law,  the  wife  of  his  older  brother  John,  has 
written  a  story  of  Fred  as  she  knows  him,  from  a  lad  in  knickerbockers 
dreaming  about  college  to  the  popular  star  of  today. 

An  intimate,  humorous  story  about  a  typical  American  family  and 
a  typical  American  boy.     You  won't  want  to  miss  it. 

In  the  January  Photoplay  out  December  10 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


One  Who  Wishes  to  Settle  a  Bet. — 
Farina,  the  black  dot  who  formerly  appeared  in 
"Our  Gang,"  is  a  boy.  Believe  it  or  not.  His 
full  name  is  Allen  Clayton  Hoskins  and  he  is  a 
Bostonian  by  birth.  He  entered  pictures  at 
the  age  of  two  years  and  played  little  girl  roles. 
When  he  started  to  grow  up  a  little,  he  was 
given  boy  roles  and  continued  in  them  until  he 
finally  outgrew  the  "  Gang."  Now  he  is  in 
vaudeville.  Mathew  Beard,  another  dusky 
lad,  known  as  "Stymie"  on  the  screen,  has  re- 
placed Farina  in  the  "Gang."  These  lads  will 
grow  up. 

F.  H.  L.,  Boston,  Mass. — Yes,  Monroe 
Owsley,  who  played  the  role  of  Ann  Harding's 
brother  in  "Holiday,"  is  the  same  lad  who 
played  Joan  Crawford's  hey  hey  boy  friend  in 
"This  Modern  Age." 

Jas.  Moore,  Detroit,  Mich. — You  asked 
me  how  those  hooch-drinking  scenes  of  Eddie 
Robinson's  got  by  the  censors  in  "Five  Star 
Final."  I  am  leffing  at  you.  That  was  only 
tea. 

Lester,  Dothan,  Ala. — No,  Tallulah  Bank- 
head  has  never  been  married.  Her  next 
picture     will     be     "The     Cheat."       Harvey 


Stephens,  a  newcomer  from  the  stage,  plays 
opposite  her.  Lew  Ayres'  latest  release  is  a 
football  picture,  "The  Spirit  of  Notre  Dame," 
reviewed  in  this  issue.  This  is  the  picture  that 
Knute  Rockne  was  on  his  way  West  to  make 
when  he  met  his  death  in  an  airplane  crash. 
J.  Farrell  MacDonald,  who  looks  enough  like 
Knute  to  be  his  brother,  was  rushed  in  to  fill 
the  role  of  coach.  The  football  fans  (and 
others)  will  go  crazy  about  this  picture. 

Alice,  Union  City,  N.  J. — The  musical 
selection  that  was  played  and  sung  in  "Merely 
Mary  Ann"  was  "Kiss  Me  Good-Night." 

M.  Smith,  Montreal,  Canada. — John 
Darrow  has  been  in  pictures  quite  some  time, 
in  fact  he  was  in  'em  long  before  the  talkies 
came  along.  He  was  born  July  17,  1907,  in 
New  York  City.  Is  5  feet,  llj^  inches  tall; 
weighs  160  and  has  brown  hair  and  brown  eyes. 
He  played  in  "The  Racket,"  "The  Argyle 
Case,"  "The  Bargain"  and  his  latest  is  "Are 
These  Our  Children?  " 

Lucy  M.,  Chicago,  III. — Charles  "Chic" 
Sale  who  played  the  grandfather  in  "  Star 
Witness"  is  really  only  38  years  old.  What 
that  chap  can  do  with  make-up! 


"All  Quiet"  Wins  Photoplay  Medal 


[  continued  from  page  57  ] 


to  see  all  the  films  released  in  1930  and  cast 
their  votes.  And  the  responses  have  come 
from  all  parts  of  the  world,  from  peoples  of  all 
races. 

The  Photoplay  Medal  which  will  go  to 
Universal  Pictures  Corporation  is  solid  gold, 
weighing  123J/2  pennyweights,  and  is  two  and  a 
half  inches  in  diameter.  It  is  designed  and 
executed  by  Tiffany  and  Company  of  New 
York. 


"All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front"  was  rated 
as  the  best  picture  of  the  month  in  the  June, 
1930,  issue  of  Photoplay,  Lew  Ayres  and 
John  Wray  winning  "Best  Performances." 

Photoplay  Magazine  doffs  its  hat  and 
makes  a  low  Chesterfieldian  bow  to  the 
Laemmles,  pcrc  ct  fils,  director  Milestone, 
writers  Anderson  and  Abbott,  cameraman 
Arthur  Edeson  and  all  the  members  of  that  re- 
markable cast. 


A  his  year  you  can  remember  all 
your  friends  with  lovely  gifts,  at 
a  fraction  of  their  cost  to  buy. 
For  here  is  a  book  filled  with 
ideas  for  attractive  gifts  that  you 
can  make  on  your  sewing  ma- 
chine. Pajamas,  lingerie,  robes, 
pillows,  card  table  covers,  fabric 
toys — these  are  but  a  few  of  its 
many  practical  suggestions. 
Your  friends  and  the  members 
of  your  family  will  treasure  your 
gifts  the  more  because  you  plan- 
ned and  made  them  all  yourself. 


«$360IUf 


To  get  your  book,  simply  take 
the  coupon  below  to  any  Singer 
Shop.  The  experts  at  the  Shop 
will  also  gladly  give  you  helpful 
instruction  to  enable  you  to 
make  your  gifts.  Every  sewing 
convenience  is  provided,  includ- 
ing the  use  of  swift  Singer  Electric 
Machines.  Take  advantage  of 
this  special  service  which  is  now 
available  at  every  Singer  Shop. 


This  coupon,  presented 

at  any  Singer  Shop,  entides 

you  to  a  free  copy  of  "Gifts  You 

Can  Make  on  the  Sewing  Machine.'' 


Name 

Address- 


Look 
est  addrc 


■fill 

n  your  telephone  directory  for  the  near- 


of  the  Singer  Sewing  Machine  Co. 


One  of  the  gripping  scenes  from  the  PHOTOPLAY  Gold  Medal  prize 
winner  of  1930— "All  Quiet  on  the  Western  Front."  Louis  Wolheim,  who 
died  a  few  months  ago,  and  Lew  Ayres  are  shown  as  Katczinsky  and  Paul 


SINGER 

SEWING    MACHINE   CO. 


IN  COR  PO  p.  AT  E  D 


Copyright  U.S.A.  1931.  by  The  bingcr  Manufacturing  Co. 
All  Rights  Reserved  for  AH  Countries 


ii4 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


A  Merry 

Christmas  from 

Paris! 


--"T--- 

:^:->':\ 

'•**     **•» 

#y 

**  / 

^A 

>l 

Helena  Rubinstein  has 
brought  back  from  Paris 
the  most  delightful  gift 
suggestions.  Compacts, 
Lipsticks,  Make-up  En- 
sembles like  shining  jew- 
els—Powder  in  beautiful 
boxes  as  gay  and  colorful 
as  the  season  itself.  And 
prices  so  low  that  you 
can  fill  your  whole  gift 
list  at  a  fraction  of  what 
it  has  cost  other  years! 

Gift    Suggestions 

The  Christmas  Special — 
A  loose  powder  compact 
and  lipstick  to  match 
in  three  holiday  color 
combinations:  Green  and 
Jade,  Vermilion  and 
Black,  Black  and  Vermil- 
ion .  .  Complete  2.00 
The  Automatic  Lipstick 
— Can  be  opened,  used 
and  closed  with  one 
hand.  Three  delightful 
tones.  Indelible  .  1.00 
Marienbad  Pine  Bath 
Salts— Twenty  large  cap- 
sules in  a  charming  and 
colorful  gift  box  .  3.00 
Vanities— Black  and  Gold 
Double  Compact  .  2.00 
Triple  Compact  con- 
taining rouge,  powder 
and  lipstick  .  .  .  3.00 
Green  and  Silver  loose 
powder  and  lipstick  2.50 
The  New  Ensemble  Van- 
ity Set  —  A  reproduction 
of  Madame  Rubinstein's 
own  two  hundred  dollar 
compact.  With  matching 
lipstick  ....  3.50 
Perfume— A  breath  of  the 
Orient.  Exotic,  alluring. 
Specially  priced  at  7.50 
At  leading  dept.  and  drug 
stores  or  at  her  Salons. 

helena   rubinstein 

8  E.  57lh  Street    •    New  York 

PARIS  LONDON 


'Ginsburg! 


?? 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  66  ] 

human  hands  and  a  human  throat.  "Although 
she  may  be  late,  I  trust  in  fate  and  so  I  wait  for 
my  ideal."  Mr.  Joy  looks  to  Chevalier  for  his 
verdict,  Chevalier  looks  to  Mr.  Joy.  They 
shake  their  heads  simultaneously.  It  may 
sound  perfect  to  your  ears  or  to  mine,  but  their 
trained  senses  have  detected  a  flaw.  The  whole 
thing  has  to  be  done  over  again. 

ONCE  more  the  signals  sound,  once  more 
Chevalier  sings  and  the  young  violinist  plays 
his  solo  between  choruses,  once  more  a  judi- 
ciary group  forms  about  the  machine.  Cheva- 
lier sits  with  lowered  head,  his  hands  hanging 
between  his  knees.  This  time  he  makes  no 
comment  when  the  song  is  ended.  "Does  that 
sound  better?"  the  conductor  asks  him 
anxiously.  Gravely  he  raises  his  head,  gravely 
he  looks  Mr.  Leonard  Joy  in  the  eye. 

Then,  with  a  comic  effect  impossible  to 
convey,  his  polite  Parisian  voice  solemnly  pro- 
nounces the  single  word  "Geenzborgh!"  which 
wise-crack  is  greeted  with  roars  of  delight  from 
his  audience,  and  is  enjoyed  by  no  one  more 
hugely  than  the  perpetrator  himself. 

The  test  having  been  found  good,  the  master- 
records  may  now  be  made — three  in  all,  from 
which  the  best  will  be  chosen  for  ultimate  use. 
The  procedure  is  the  same,  except  that  the  song 
does  not  come  back  through  the  Victrola;  but 
the  mechanical  reception  is  different,  and  it  is 
the  engineer  in  the  control  room  who  passes 
judgment  on  these  final  recordings. 

And  still  Chevalier  hasn't  done  his  duty  by 
"My  Ideal."  There  remains  the  French 
version  to  be  sung  for  the  clamorous  and 
profitable  French  market,  for  his  American 
triumphs  have  multiplied  a  hundredfold  his 
popularity  in  his  own  country.  Whereas 
formerly  he  sang  to  perhaps  two  thousand 
people  a  night  in  Paris  and  was  hardly  more 
than  a  name  to  the  great  majority  of  his 
compatriots,  he  has  now  through  his  pictures 
become  a  beloved  figure  in  every  town  and 
hamlet  that  boasts  a  cinema,  and  "noire 
Maurice"  bids  fair  to  achieve  a  place  that  has 
hitherto  been  reserved  for  Chariot  (Charlie 
Chaplin)  alone. 

So  smoothly  does  the  machinery  of  this 
studio  run,  so  well  do  the  leader,  the  orchestra 
and  the  singer  understand  their  business  and 
one  another,  so  intelligently  and  considerately 
do  they  work  together,  that  this  whole 
laborious  process  of  tests  and  master-records, 
English  and  French,  involving  some  dozen 
repetitions  of  the  same  song,  which  must— and 
does — sound  as  fresh  and  lively  the  dozenth 
time  as  the  first — all  this  has  been  completed 
in  something  less  than  an  hour.  A  well-earned 
respite  of  five  minutes  is  announced,  and  the 
"chiselers"  repair  to  the  corridor  to  stretch 
their  legs  and  smoke  a  cigarette,  while  Cheva- 
lier in  his  courteous  fashion  sits  down  to  enter- 
tain the  visitor. 

THESE  fellows,"  he  tells  me,  "are  really 
wonderful."  The  appreciation  of  good 
craftsmen  for  one  another.  "I  like  always  to 
come  here  and  work  with  them.  It  cannot  per- 
haps be  seen  by  one  who  is  not  a  singer,  but 
usually  it  takes  hours  to  rehearse  such  a  song. 
Yet  here  they  know  the  music  already  before  I 
have  come,  and  when  I  have  sung  it  with  them 
once,  it  is — "  interlocking  his  fingers,  "like 
this!" 

He  comments  on  the  tunefulness  of  the  air 
he  has  just  been  singing,  and  I  ask  him  about 
the  next  song. 

"Ah — the  next!  The  next  is  a  gay  bird! 
That  is  how  it  should  be— eh?  First  a  sweet 
one,  then  a  merry  one.  It  goes  like  this—" 
and  he  hums  a  few  bars.  "  'It's  a  great  life  if 
you  don't  weaken;  you're  a  great  guy  if  you 
won't  weaken.'  When  we  were  making  the 
picture  in  Hollywood  and  someone  on  the  set 


We  Will 
Help  You 

"p  ARN  extra  cash  as 
■*■"'  hundreds  of  others 
are  doing  in  spare  or 
fuJl  time.  You  can  add 
substantially  to  your 
present  income  in  a 
dignified  manner  by 
becoming  our  sub' 
scription  representa' 
tive  in  the  town  or 
community  in  which 
you  live. 

((You,  as  a  reader  of 
Photoplay,  will  be  quick 
to  realise  the  money-mak' 
ing  possibilities  this  offer 
affords  you. 

((Your  friends — your 
neighbors — in  fact,  all  the 
homes  in  your  community 
— are  prospective  sub' 
scribers  for  Photoplay. 
Who,  today,  is  not  inter' 
ested  in  moving  pictures 
— the  chief  recreation  of 
the  American  public? 

((Be  the  first  in  your  com' 
munity  to  take  advantage 
of  this  offer,  and  get  started 
at  once.  The  coupon  or  a 
post  card  will  bring  fur' 
ther  details. 


J^ame. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

Dept.  CIR-12-31 

919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

I  am  interested  in  your  money-making 
offer  to  your  readers.  Send  me  trie  details 
at  once. 


Address . 
City..., 


.  State . 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


JI5 


looked — how  do  you  say? — with  the  mouth 
down,  then  I  sang  him  this  song,  and  at  once 
he  felt  much  better.  Or  so  they  told  me. 
It  may  be—"  and  his  smile  flashes  " — it  may 
be  they  were  just  keeding  me." 

The  musicians  are  returning  to  their  places 
and  Chevalier  goes  into  consultation  with 
Mr.  Joy.  A  moment  later  the  first  sprightly 
strains  of  the  "gay  bird"  strike  the  air.  The 
effect  is  instantaneous.  Feet  begin  beating 
time,  shoulders  lift,  heads  sway,  eyes  brighten. 

Chevalier  is  at  the  microphone.  "If  you 
don't  lose  heart,  the  hardest  part  is  the  first 
hundred  years."  And  the  microphone  is 
suddenly  transformed  under  your  very  nose 
from  an  instrument  of  wood  and  steel  into  a 
human  being  of  flesh  and  bone — a  human 
being  with  his  "mouth  down,"  whom  Cheva- 
lier is  trying  to  cajole  out  of  the  blues  as  he 
cajoled  the  people  on  the  Hollywood  set. 

"VTES,  a  great  world  with  a  kick  to  it !"    He 

■L  laughs  exultantly,  yet  sobers  down  at  once, 
seeing  that  the  man  he's  facing  remains  un- 
convinced. He  reasons  with  him,  his  hands 
plead,  his  eyebrows  go  up  into  his  hair.  "// 
you  let  him  biff  you,  Mr.  Gloom  will  knock 
you  cold!"  The  words  don't  matter — you 
hear  only  the  serio-comic  coaxing  in  the  voice, 
you  see  only  the  solicitous  pucker  of  the  brows 
that  is  belied  by  the  quizzical  glint  in  the  eye. 
Any  second  now  he's  likely  to  throw  an  en- 
couraging arm  around  the  microphone's 
neck. 

Mr.  Joy,  glancing  up  from  his  score,  catches 
that  fugitive  look,  and  grins  helplessly  across 
at  me.  We  are  bound  by  a  moment's  fellow- 
ship in  laughter — and  it  is  just  here  perhaps 
that  Chevalier's  greatest  charm  lies— in  the 
warmth  that  kindles  an  answering  warmth  in 
his  audience,  that  makes  strangers  turn  to 
one  another  and  laugh  together  as  if  they  were 
old  friends. 

He's  coming  dangerously  close  to  the  end. 
His  arguments  are  exhausted,  and  this  is  a 
tough  customer.  He  pins  his  faith  to  repeti- 
tion and  emphasis.  "It's  a  great  life  if  you 
don't  weaken,"  he  chuckles,  nodding  his  head 
vigorously  and  beaming  his  most  radiant. 
"You're  a  great  guy  if  you  won't  weaken!" 
Maybe  he  can  flatter  this  fellow  into  a  good 
humor.  "If  you  do — ah,  well — ■"  Tolerance 
is  also  a  virtue.  "It's  still  a  great  life!"  he 
shouts  defiantly,  flinging  out  both  his  arms  as 
if  he  would  embrace  not  only  the  Melancholy 
Mike  but  all  the  world  as  well. 

"Ginsbitrg!"  comes  in  thunderous  acclaim 
from  a  score  of  lusty  throats.  And  heartily 
you  respond,  Amen. 


December 
Birthdays 


6 — Dot  Farley,  Elissa  Landi 

8 — Paul  Cavanagh 

9 — Eddie     Dowling,      Douglas 


Victor     Mc- 


December    5 — Virginia  Lee  Corbin,  Grace 
Moore 

December 

December 

December 
Fairbanks,  Jr. 

December  10 — Una  Merkel 

December  1 1 — Sally     Eilers, 
Laglen,  Gilbert  Roland 

December  13 — Norman  Foster,  Lillian  Roth 

December  16 — Barbara  Kent 

December  18 — Mary  Nolan 

December  24 — Ruth    Chatterton,    Howard 
Hughes 

December  25 — Marguerite  Churchill,  Helen 
Twelvetrees 

December  27 — Marlene  Dietrich 
December  28 — Lew  Ayres 
December  30 — Greta  Nissen 


W*  Prize 


WHY® CHANGED-TO-MARLBORO  CONTEST 

Charles  Swartz,  New  York  City 


An  antiseptic  soap  manufacturer  re- 
cently advised  me  that  human  hands  carry 
more  than  twenty  different  disease  germs. 
This  made  me  realize  that  the  friendly, "Have 
a  cigarette"  entailed  an  exchange  of  germs  in  a 
big  way,  unless  the  pack  contained  Marlboros. 

I  IPS  DOWN  packing  eliminates 
this  hazard!  I  switched  to  Marlboros  on  learn- 
ing they  carried  Health  Insurance. 


...55%  more 
in  safety  and 
enjoyment  at 
only  5  cents 
more  in  price 


jnukas  finzsX  dqaitft 


EARN  MONEY 

■        AT  HOME 


YOU  can  make  $15  to  $50  weekly  in  spare 
or  full  time  at  home  coloring  photographs. 
No  experience  needed.  No  canvassing.  We 
instruct  you  by  our  new  simple  Photo-Color 
process  and  supply  you  with  work.  Write 
for  particulars  and  Free  Book  to-day. 
The  IRVING-VANCE  COMPANY  Ltd. 
859    Hart  Building,  Toronto.  Can. 


21 


9fc" 

Madison 

Overlooking  Ocean  at  Illinois  Ave. 

ATLANTIC  CITY,  N.  J. 

Enjoy  late  Autumn  and  early 
Winter  Ideally  .  .  .  'mid  an  at- 
mosphere of  Colonial  charm  and  quiet  seclusion  In 
the  smartest,  liveliest  part  of  the  resort. 

Attractive  Fall  Rates  on  American  and  Euro- 
pean Plans.     Eugene  C.  Fetter,  Mnp.  Dir. 


FETTER       &       HOLLINGER 


N  C 


For  a  Holiday  Present  nothing  will  be  more  greatly 
appreciated  than  a  subscription  to  Photoplay. 
You  will  find  a  subscription  coupon  on  page  103 


Your  Favorite  Movie  Actresses 

wear  Oxesto  leashes  . . . 

Always  imperceptible,  these  artificial  eyelashes  enhance  the 
facial  features  and  give  the  eyes  an  alluring  charm.  They  are  a 
Nestle  product — made  by  the  originators  of  the  permanent  wave. 

Instantly  put  on  or  removed,  they  are  readily  cleansed  and 
can  be  used  repeatedly.  Made  in  four  shades — blonde,  brown, 
dark  brown  and  black.  $1.00  per  pair  —  postage  prepaid. 
Use  the  coupon,  enclosing  check  or  money  order.  A  happy 
revelation   awaits  you   with   your  first   pair  of   Nesto   Lashes. 


NESTO 
LASHES 


THE   NESTLE-LE  MUR  CO. 
You   may  send  . 


Dept.  M    •   10  East  49th   Street,  New  York,   N.Y. 
.pairs  of  Nesto  Lashes  color,  at 


$1  a  pair,  postage  prepaid,  for  which  I  am  enclosing  check  or  money  order. 

Name 

Street City, State. 


n6 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


SAVE  YOUR  PRECIOUS  PERFUMES! 


ART  METAL  WORKS,  Int.,  Aronson  Sq.,  NEWARK,  N.  J. 

In  Conodoi   Oomlnion  Art  Motal  Work*,  Ltd.,  Toronto,  Out. 


New  Easy  Method 

It  is  to  easy!  Simply  apply 
my  wonderful  MIRACLE 
CREAM  and  follow  my 
special      developing      inatruc- 

SPECIAL  OFFER  Now 

Send  only  $1.00  for  largo 
jar  of  Miracle  Cream  and  in- 
structions, together  with  Free 

NANCY  LEE,Dept.  X-12 

816  Broadway  New  York,  N.  Y 


FREE 

My  new  illu.tra 
Book  that  t.  lis  1 
toaVvelopa  bcai 
ful  form. 


ZEmmmm 

Wrt'AREEB 

This   two   billion   dollar   industry  offers 
splendid  opportunities    as 

O  Motion  Picture  Cameraman  and  Projectionist 
"Still"  Photographer  and  Photo  Finisher 
Easy  to  learn  by  our    simplified  method. 

SEND  FOR  FREE  BOOK      * 

nK  full  Details.   Slate  which  Interests  you.- 
NEW  YORK  INSTITLTF.  OF  PHOTOGRAPHY.    10  West  33rd  SI.  (Dept  37)  New  York. 


Bread  Line 


Subscribe  for  PHOTOPLAY. 
Use  Coupon  on'Pa^e  103. 


TSSESSEHESSESIiniSBi 

Particulars  of  Dr.  Esenwein's  famous  forty  - 
lesson  course  in  writing  and  marketing  of  the 
Short-Story  and  sample  copy  of  The  Weitek'3 
Monthly  free.    Write  today. 

THE  HOME  CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL 
ismiSBJ    Dept.  95.  Soringfield,  Mass. 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  56  ] 


Bowery  stuff.  That  new  gang  picture,  you 
know." 

The  girl  with  the  list  was  reading  names 
aloud.  Here  and  there  one  of  the  shabby, 
tired  men  brightened.  A  girl  in  a  sleazy  frock 
sobbed  in  relief — and  the  stout  man  was 
beaming.  Now  the  girl  was  looking  at  Molly, 
who  drew  herself  up  and  tried  to  appear 
smart. 

And  then  all  at  once  her  shoulders  sagged 
miserably  and,  as  she  lowered  her  eyes  to  hide 
the  swift  tears  in  them,  she  heard  the  magic 
sound  of  her  own  name. 

TT  was  the  irony  of  fate!  Where  her  pretty 
-^-clothes  and  pretty  smiles  and  pretty 
features  had  failed,  hopelessness  and  shabbi- 
ness  and  grief  had  turned  the  trick.  But 
Molly  was  too  tired — and  far  too  hungry — to 
feel  any  sense  of  triumph  as  she  went  with  the 
others  through  the  magic  door  that  led  to  the 
motion  picture  lot  that  had  once  been  the 
mecca  of  all  her  dreams.  Only  once  she  spoke, 
and  then  it  was  to  the  girl  who  had  stood  next 
to  her,  in  the  line.  And,  who,  also,  had  been 
chosen. 

"What  are  we  to  do?"  she  asked.  "Do  you 
know?" 

A  spark  of  humor  glowed  for  just  a  minute 
in  the  eyes  of  the  other  girl,  and  then  it 
flickered  out. 

"I  hear,"  she  said,  "that  we're  to  stand  in  a 
breadline — that's  to  be  our  job  for  today. 
Well,  it  oughtn't  to  be  hard!" 

Again  it  was  the  irony  of  fate.  A  bread  line 
— when  she  was  actually  hungry  enough  to 
eat  a  dry  crust  of  bread  and  thank  Heaven  for 
it! 

Molly  found  that  she  was  laughing  beneath 
her  breath,  just  a  little  bit  hysterically — but 
the  laughter  died  on  her  lips  as  she,  with  the 
rest,  walked  down  through  the  set. 

For  suddenly  the  set,  hopeless  and  ugly 
though  it  was,  made  her  homesick.  For  the 
set,  placed  in  the  torrid  center  of  a  California 
studio,  stood  for  New  York. 

An  ugly  part  of  New  York,  a  dark,  dreary 
part  of  New  York — the  Bowery.  But  New 
York,  nevertheless! 

Grim  and  sordid  and  crowded  with  failure — 
that  was  the  set  on  which  Molly  and  the  other 
extras  stood  awaiting  their  turn.  The  dingy 
building  that  made  its  background  was  only  a 
shell,  really — a  shell  strung  with  wires  and 
lights. 

But  it  would  photograph  like  a  certain 
Bowery  mission  front  that  Molly  had  passed 
more  than  once,  in  Preston's  car,  on  the  way 
back  from  a  Sunday  drive. 

Standing  in  the  door  of  that  hollow  mission 
was  a  slender,  flashing-eyed  young  man  in  a 
uniform.  A  man  whom  Molly  had  often,  in 
happier  days,  watched  breathlessly  upon  the 
screen. 

She  recognized  him  as  the  Star  of  Stars — 
but  she  was  too  beaten  to  feel  any  sense  of 
excitement  over  that  moment  of  recognition, 
of  nearness. 

THE  girl  next  to  her  was  talking  again,  ex- 
plaining things — but  the  girl's  very  words 
came  to  Molly  through  a  sudden  confusion 
and  blur. 

"He's  supposed  to  give  us  a  hand-out,"  said 
the  girl,  and  her  thumb  jerked  in  the  direction 
of  the  star  in  the  doorway.  "He's  supposed  to 
be  a  minister  working  in  the  mission  .  .  .  See 
that  baby — "  her  hand  moved  toward  a  man 
in  the  back  of  the  line,  a  heavy,  bulking  fellow 
with  an  underslung  jaw,  "he's  the  villain  of 
the  piece.    You  recognize  him,  don't  you?" 

Molly  tried  to  nod  a  "Yes,"  for  she  did 
recognize  the  villain.  She  had  seen  him  on 
the  screen,  also,  countless  times.  But  her 
head  was  all  at  once  a  little  wobbly.    Perhaps 


it  was  the  heat  of  this  closed-in  set — she 
didn't  know. 

Perhaps  it  was  something  else.  She  tried 
— with  a  certain  bravery — to  get  hold  of  her- 
self, for  somebody,  somewhere,  was  speaking. 
Was  giving  sharp,  curt  orders. 

"You're  to  move  along,"  the  somebody  was 
saying.  "All  of  you!  Try  to  walk  with  a  sort 
of  shuffle.  Act  like — like  you're  hungry,  like 
you're  starving.  When  a  coffee  cup  is  handed 
to  you,  gulp  the  coffee  down.  Bite  into  your 
bread  as  if  you  haven't  had  bread  for  a  couple 
of  days.  Remember  that  this  is  a  year  of 
unemployment,  this  is — " 

HpHE  star  in  the  doorway  laughed  with  white, 
-*-  flashing  teeth,  and  flashing  dark  eyes.  He 
held  in  one  hand  a  dirty  chunk  of  bread,  in  the 
other  a  cup  of  something  dark  that  might 
have    been    coffee. 

"This  way,  folks,"  he  shouted,  boyishly — 
"First  call  for  dinner  in  the  dining  car!" 

Molly  looked  over  the  heads  of  the  extras 
who  stood  in  front  of  her — there  were  only  a 
few,  two  or  three  or  four — at  the  star.  Under 
ordinary  circumstances  she  would  have  been 
fascinated  by  the  play  of  expression  across 
his  mobile  face,  but  somehow  today,  she 
couldn't  keep  her  eyes  on  his  face.  Her  eyes 
kept  dropping,  with  an  odd  fascination,  to  the 
cup  and  the  chunk  of  bread  that  he  held  in 
his  hands. 

And  all  at  once,  under  her  breath,  she  was 
laughing  again.  Once  more  she  was  thinking 
of  the  butterscotch  pecan  sundaes  back  in 
New  York — once  more  she  was  remembering  a 
time  when  she  had  toyed  with  the  thought  of 
a  diet. 

'  I  'HE  set — oh,  it  was  a  noisy  one !  There  was 
*•  confusion  all  around — there  was  noise  and 
excitement.  Half  a  dozen  people  bellowed 
orders,  a  woman  expostulated  violently  with 
the  director,  and  a  man  who  was  to  be  the 
villain  tickled  the  girl  who  stood  in  front  of 
him  in  line.  Taken  by  surprise  the  girl 
squealed  a  protest. 

But  to  Molly  the  noises,  the  excitement,  the 
Bounds  were  just  a  painted,  soundless  back- 
drop, against  which  the  star  stood  with  a  cup 
in  his  hand.  Things  glittered  in  front  of  her 
eyes,  and  she  realized  that  she  was  tired — that 
she  hadn't  slept  very  much  lately,  what  with 
worrying. 

The  confusion  continued.  Molly  never 
could  have  told  for  how  long.  And  then  at 
last  the  orders  and  the  shouting  and  the 
giggles  had  died  away,  and  everything  was 
suddenly  still,  so  still  that  you  could  have 
heard  the  proverbial  pin  drop.  And  Molly 
found  she  was  holding  her  breath,  and  realized 
that  somebody  had  whispered  a  plea  for 
silence. 

And  then,  all  in  a  moment,  the  line  was 
moving,  shuffling  through  masses  of  soiled 
cotton  batting  that  would  photograph  with  the 
mud-like  quality  of  city  slush. 

The  line  in  back  of  her  was  moving  like  a 
soft,  blurry  caterpillar. 

The  few  extras  in  front  of  her  moved  like 
another  caterpillar. 

Molly  felt  that  she  was  a  part  of  some  body 
— that  she  wasn't  in  any  way  a  person,  alive, 
whole  and  disconnected. 

The  star  was  smiling,  was  nodding.  Was 
saying — 

"Here's  your  hand-out,  brother.  Here's 
your  coffee,  sister,"  in  the  resonant  voice 
which  she  had  heard  so  often  in  her  favorite 
movie  theater. 

The  two  men  and  the  girl  just  ahead  of  her 
were  being  given  their  cups,  and  their  chunks 
of  bread. 

And  now — now  it  was  Molly's  turn.  It  was 
the    great    moment    when    Molly — who    had 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


dreamed  of  making  movie  history — was  at 
last  acting  in  front  of  the  camera.  Only,  all 
at  once,  she  wasn't  acting.  She  wasn't  one  of 
fifty  extras,  playing  hungry  in  a  pseudo  bread- 
line. 

It  was  at  last  her  moment,  but  now  that  the 
moment  had  come  she  didn't  realize  it! 

For  reality  had  gripped  her,  and  with  a 
sudden  hysteria  she  was  reaching  up  to  snatch 
the  cup  and  the  piece  of  bread  from  the  star's 
hand. 

With  a  little  scared,  stilled  sob  she  was  sink- 
ing her  teeth  into  the  bread,  and  was  placing 
the  cup  to  her  lips. 

Yes,  it  was  coffee — not  very  good  coffee,  but 
coffee  nevertheless. 

She  realized  that  as  it  ran  gurgling  down  her 
throat. 

AND  then,  suddenly,  she  was  crying  wildly 
and  was  slithering  down  in  a  heap  at  the 
star's  feet  and  the  star  was  saying — 

"My  God,  she  really  acts  as  if  she  is  starv- 
ing!" 

And  Molly  was  looking  up  into  his  face, 
still  clutching  the  bread  and  the  cup.  Looking 
up  at  him  with  the  coffee  dribbling  in  pathetic 
little  drops  from  her  chin.  And  she  was  say- 
ing— 

"But  I  am  so  hungry!" 

And  then  she  fainted. 

"DERHAPS  it  was  an  hour  later  that  the  world 
■*-  began  to  move  again  in  its  appointed  path — 
perhaps  it  was  only  a  few  minutes  later. 
Molly  opened  her  eyes  weakly,  felt  an  arm 
around  her  and  knew  it  must  be  the  star's 
arm  because  his  face  was  so  close  above  her 
own. 


were  empty — that  the  cup  and  the  bread  had 
gone  from  them. 

She  looked  up,  tragic-eyed,  into  the  roof 
above  her  head,  with  its  light  and  apparatus, 
with  all  the  magic  of  a  motion  picture  studio. 
And  then  she  said  very  politely,  "Can  I  have  a 
sandwich,  please?  You  can  take  it  out  of  my 
day's  wages!" 

THERE  was,  once  more,  a  buzz  of  sound,  just 
as  there  had  been  before  the  line  of  extras 
had  started  to  move.  Again  someone,  some- 
where, was  speaking  to  someone  else.  Molly 
couldn't  see  either  the  speaker  or  the  spoken  to, 
but  she  heard  dimly  the  words  they  said. 

"That's  as  pretty  a  piece  of  acting  as  any- 
one will  ever  see!"  said  one  voice.  "We'll 
give  her  a  close-up." 

And  the  other  person  whom  she  couldn't 
sec  was  answering — 

"You  said  it,  baby — that  kid's  got  some- 
thing." 

Molly  heard  the  words  subconsciously,  but 
it  was  the  star's  voice  that  brought  realization 
to  her  mind. 

"Why,  sure  you  can  have  a  sandwich,"  the 
star  was  saying.  "And  you  can  have  a  job, 
too,  as  far  as  I'm  concerned.  I  guess  I've  got 
enough  influence  to  manage  a  sandwich  and — 
a  job.  Why,  my  gosh,"  the  rest  of  his  sentence 
was  drowned  out  by  the  sea  of  violent  sensa- 
tions  that   was  creeping  in  on   Molly. 

She  tried  to  speak  again  and  couldn't  quite 
make  it. 

But  even  as  somebody  thrust  a  sandwich 
into  her  hand,  even  as  somebody  proffered  a 
glass  and  a  silvery  thermos  bottle,  she  realized 
what  she  was  going  to  ask  for  next. 


She  sneezed  and  knew  that  somebody  was     Ts.TOT  for  the  job,  certainly.    Even  if 
holding  smelling  salts  under  her  nose.  *-^  could  manage  it!    Shedidn'twant 


But,  somehow  the  thrill  of  having  the  star's 
arm  under  her  shoulders  wasn't  a  thrill.  She 
couldn't  help  wishing  that  it  was  the  more 
familiar  arm — Preston's  arm — that  she  had 
known  in  the  old  days.  The  wonder  of  the 
star's  eyes  looking  down  into  her  own  wasn't 
wonderful! 

Not  while  she  remembered  that  her  hands 


the  star 
a  career, 
now.  All  she  wanted  was  twenty-rive  cents, 
or  maybe  fifty  cents,  so  that  she  could  send  a 
telegram.     A  telegram  saying — 

"I've  changed  my  mind.  Come  and  get 
me." 

Biting  gratefully  into  the  sandwich,  Molly 
felt  a  sudden  sense  of  peace.  Almost  she  was 
able  to  smile. 


Look  what  PHOTOPLAY'S  private  sleuth  just  brought  in.     It's  the  first 

still  from  "Mata  Hari"  and  this  is  the  way  Greta  Garbo  will  look  in  some 

scenes.     Garbo  is  a  dancer-spy  and  Ramon  Novarro  the  Russian  officer 

who  loves  her.     Care  for  that  headdress? 


THE  SAME  AGE 


tnj&nce: 


Hands  need  not  age  rapidly.  You  can  prove  this 
to  yourself  —  within  a  week,  by  using  Italian  Balm. 
This  famous  skin  softener  is  guaranteed  to  banish 
the  blemishes  of  housework,  office  work  and 
weather  quicker  .  .  .  than  anything  you  have  ever 
used  before.  Invention  of  a  world-famous  skin 
specialist,  Italian  Balm  is  $cienfifica//y  correct.  Six- 
teen separate  ingredients  go  into  it  —  many  of 
them  imported  for  the  reason  that  no  such  soothing, 
softening  agents  are  made  in  this  country.  Remem- 
ber this  —  when  you  use  Italian  Balm,  you  are 
using  winter-loving  Canada's  largest  selling  skin 
protector.  35c,  60c  and  $1.00  bottles.  Or  send  the 
coupon  for  free  Vanity  size. 

ITALIAN 
BALM 

THE     ORIGINAL     SKIN      SOFTENER 
FREE— Vanity  Size  Bottle  on   Request 

Campa>a  Corporation,   l\~'l    Lincoln   II     1m  .^  .   H.itn\  .  . 

Illinois,  •  <  .iiill.iii.ii  :  I'l.-.i^  -rtnl  in.  ,i 
\  \miv  size  bottle  of  Campana'e  Italian 
Bulm  —  FREE  and  postpaid. 


Statr 


In  Canada  ncnd  your  rrqti^iit 
orporntion,    Ltd.,    86  -  48 
Road,  Toronto. 

I  nnr  in  ■Sofiirci'ov.Vitr/iM-'T  ir»t  >.  ic  lit  ^"broadcast,  N. B.C. 
coa?t-to-coat»t  .  .  ".  9:30  E.T.;  8:30  C.T.;  7:30  M.T.;  6:30  P.T. 


n8 


50  cents  a  box — 


A  New  Shade 
In  LABLACME 
Face  Powder 

All  of  the  exquisite  charm  of 
LABLACHE,  known  for  over 
50  years  as  the 

FACE   POWDER  of  QUALITY 

in  a  shade  that  blends  with  any 
complexion. 

Ask  your  Druggist  for  "MARGIE" 
the  new  all-complexion  powder, 
or  send  to  us  for  sample  (no 
charge.) 

BEN  LEVY  CO. 
125  Kingston  Street 
BOSTON,   MASS. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 

rashion    roibles 

of  Hollywood  Stars 
by    Seymour 


Her  Blonde  Hair 

brought  him  back 

HE  couldn't  forget  how  her  hair  sparkled  and 
shone  .  . .  And  so  another  lovers'  quarrel  is 
patched  up — by  Blondex.  This  special  shampoo 
keeps  blonde  hair  thrilling  with  golden  lights — 
safely  brings  back  true  golden  color  to  dull, 
faded  blonde  hair.  Prevents  darkening.  Not  a 
dye.  No  injurious  chemicals.  Stimulates  the 
scalp.  Try  Blondex  today  and  see  the  difference. 
At  all  drug  and  department  stores. 


cues 

98 


PHOTOS 
ENLARGED 

Size  16x20  inches 
Same  price  for  full 
length  or  bust  form, 
K roups,   landsca 
pet  animals,  etc 
enlargements  of 
part    of  group    pic- 
ture.   Safe  return  of  your  own 
original     p  ho  to    guaranteed. 

SEND   NO    MONEY 

Just  mail  photo  or  snapshot  (any 
Bize.)and  within  a  week  you  will 
receive  your  beautiful  life-like 
enlargement  size  16x20ln. guar- 
anteed fadeless.  Fay  postman 
98c  plus  postage  or  send  SI. 00 
with  order  and  we  pay  postage. 

tr  Witt 

*     each. 

nd  Free 

a  hand-tinted  miniature  repro- 
duction of  photo  sent.  Take  ad- 
vantage now  of  this  amazing 
offer— send  your  photo  today. 

UNITED  PORTRAIT  COMPANY 
900  W.  Lake  St.,  Dept.  W-131,  Chicago,  III. 


How  To  Obtain 


A  Better  Looking  Nose 

Improve  Your  Personal  Appearance 

My  free  book  tells  you  how  1  guarantee 
to  improve  the  shape  of  your  nose  by 
remolding  the  cartilage  and  fleshy  parts, 
quickly,  safely,  and  painlessly,  or  refund 
your  money.  The  very  fine,  precise  ad- 
justments which  only  my  new  patented 
ModJ  25  Nose  Shaper  possesses,  make 
results  satisfactory  and  lasting.  Worn 
night  or  day.  Over  100,000  users.  Send 
for  free  book  to 

M.  TRILETY,  Pioneer  Noseshapin;  Specialist 
Depl.  281, Binghamton,  N.  Y. 


HOLLYWOOD  is  a  fashion  free  lance  as 
far  as  the  rest  of  the  country  is  con- 
cerned.    Or  even  Paris  for  that  matter. 
Paris  can  make  a  fashion  clamor  over  a  new 
style,  but  it  will  only  be  a  hoarse  whisper  if  the 
fashionable  feminine  set  of  Hollywood  says 
thumbs  down. 

T  ILYAN  TASHMAN  was  one  of  the  leaders 
■"in  the  Eugenie  boohing  society.  And  then, 
of  course,  the  competition  started — you  know 
how  those  girls  are  rivals  for  the  "  best  dressed  " 
cup.  So  Constance  Bennett,  Kay  Francis  and 
a  number  of  others  were  found  to  be  no-ing, 
too. 

That  clever  French  designer,  Chanel,  came 
out  to  design  screen  fashions  for  Mr.  Goldwyn. 
Having  recently  viewed  some  of  her  first 
costumes  for  "The  Greeks  Had  a  Word  for  It," 
it  rather  looks  as  if  she  had  done  a  bit  of 
tongue-in-cheeking  with  scissors  in  hand. 
Of  course,  Chanel  was  a  good  choice  for  such 
a  job  for  she  is  as  daring  a  designer  as  any  of 
the  lovely  ladies  she  will  be  designing  for. 

TTOLLYWOOD  was  shocked  at  her  appear- 
■*•  -*-ance  when  she  burst  upon  them  bedecked 
in  innumerable  ropes  of  pearls,  sundry  brace- 
lets, and  a  gray  wool  suit!  Could  this  be 
Paris? 

Ina  Claire,  for  whom  she  is  designing  par- 
ticularly, is  an  old  client  of  hers.  Ina  loves 
the  things  Chanel  does  and  she  wears  her 
unusual  clothes  to  perfection. 

Watch  out  for  the  wedding  dress  Ina  wears 
in  "The  Greeks  Had  a  Word  for  It."  It  is 
a  revolutionary  model. 

There  will  be  more  than  one  shout  and  mur- 
mur when  these  clothes  appear. 

Anyone  who  didn't  know  there  was  a  Mrs. 
Clark  Gable  must  have  had  insomnia  after  a 
recent  big  Hollywood  opening,  because  that 
fair    lady  appeared    there   in   her    husband's 


wake  decked  out  in  black  velvet  and  white  fox. 

"""THESE  openings  are  gala  affairs;  all  the 
■*-  best  fur  tippets  are  taken  out,  the  dresses 
pressed  and  the  florists'  shops  completely  de- 
orchidized.  At  the  same  opening,  Loretta 
Young  wore  a  black  velvet  frock  that  had  puff 
sleeves  of  ermine— cute  and  young  like 
Loretta,  even  though  she  is  looking  sophisti- 
cated these  days. 

Wonder  if  the  smart  stars  who  have  been 
growing  longer  tresses  are  going  to  fall  for  the 
new  windblown  coiffure  Paris  is  advocating? 
Watch  your  screen  and  report  the  first  shearing! 

Even  though  you  have  shelved  the  derby, 
don't  start  pushing  your  hat  back  on  your  head 
again. 

The  line  still  forms  over  the  right  eye! 

"KJORMA  SHEARER  is  wearing  some  very 
■*-  ^  smart  new  clothes  in  her  screen  version  of 
"Private  Lives." 

You  know  it  is  the  story  of  a  very  gay  divorcee 
who  remarries  and  regrets  it. 

You  can  imagine  what  an  opportunity  it  gives 
her  for  wearing  some  grand  things.  It  is  nice 
to  see  her  going  tailored  again — those  whoopsy- 
doopsy  things  she  has  been  wearing  in  some  of 
her  other  pictures  were  not  nearly  so  flattering 
to  her  type. 

Watch  screen  skirt  lines!  You  will  find  them 
taking  the  straight  and  narrow  more  and  more 
frequently. 

"Y"OU  would  do  well  to  keep  an  eagle  eye  on 
■*■  some  of  the  clever  accessory  tricks  that 
popular  stars  employ. 

Sometimes  only  a  new  way  of  tying  a  scarf 
— but  a  similar  treatment  of  your  own  will 
prove  surprisingly  refreshing.  This  business 
of  being  screen  fashion -conscious  has  more 
possibilities  than  anyone  has  even  started  to 
try  out.  Those  girls  know  how  to  wear  their 
fashions. 


Advice  on  Girls'  Problems 


CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  75  ] 


Gladys  P.: 

If  you  favor  Dolores  Costello  in  looks  you 
must  be  very  charming,  indeed.  Why  don't 
you  copy  her  type  of  hairdress?  I  think  it 
would  be  very  flattering.  Brush  your  hair  up 
to  reveal  a  bit  of  ear  on  either  side.  I  do  not 
care  for  long  pieces  hanging  down  on  either  side 
of  the  face. 

It  is  not  neat  looking. 

You  are  about  two  pounds  underweight,  you 
should  weigh  117  pounds.  The  difference  is  so 
slight,  however,  that  you  need  not  give  it 
another  thought. 

Girls  like  you  with  golden  brown  hair  and 
blue  eyes  will  find  the  following  colors  most 
flattering: 

All  soft  shades  of  green,  most  shades  of  blue, 
especially  those  that  tend  toward  the  deep 
tones,  gray  with  a  warm  cast,  golden  brown, 
burnt-orange,  tomato  reds,  black  with  color  or 
white. 

Pale  pinks,  white  and  orchid  for  evening. 


Light  floral  bouquet  perfumes  are  most  suit- 
able for  a  girl  of  your  age. 
Malane: 

I  do  not  think  that  much  rouge  would  be- 
come you,  but  if  your  face  is  both  long  and 
wide,  I  would  advise  that  you  use  some.  Apply 
the  rouge  lightly,  shading  it  in  toward  the  nose. 
Do  not  bring  it  out  and  up  toward  the  edges  of 
the  ears.  And  do  not  put  any  rouge  on  the  tip 
of  the  chin. 

You  are  about  30  pounds  overweight  as  your 
doctor  said. 

If  you  will  send  me  a  stamped,  self-ad- 
dressed envelope,  I  will  send  you  my  reduc- 
ing booklet  which  will  give  you  specific  exer- 
cises for  reducing  the  hips  and  legs. 

The  massage  I  have  suggested  for  Joan 
will  help  you,  too. 

I  think  if  you  had  your  hair  waved,  it  would 
be  easier  to  handle. 

Try  a  soft  knot  in  the  back  of  the  neck, 
rather  than  a  roll. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December, 


Don't  tamper  with  your  eyebrows.  Use  a 
small  brush  on  them  daily  and  brush  them  to 
follow  the  natural  line. 

Send  for  my  complexion  leaflet,  it  will  help 
you  with  the  blackhead  and  large  pore  prob- 
lems. 

Mermia: 

The  most  becoming  make-up  for  you  would 
be  a  pale  cream  powder  combined  with  a  red 
rouge  that  tends  toward  the  orange.  A  rather 
vivid  lipstick,  also  with  an  orange  tinge.  At 
night  you  could  stress  the  blueness  of  your  eyes 
with  a  touch  of  blue  eyeshadow. 

Note  the  colors  I  have  mentioned  above  for 
Gladys  P.,  they  will  become  you,  too. 

Bee: 

Premature  grayness  is  sometimes  a  matter  of 
heredity.  You  are  still  young  enough  to  try  to 
prevent  complete  grayness,  however.  Good 
care  will  put  off  the  final  loss  of  pigment. 

Keep  your  hair  and  scalp  in  good  condition. 
Massage  it  regularly  to  give  the  hair  life  and 
help  it  retain  its  natural  color.  Even  though 
the  way  you  wear  your  hair  is  becoming,  I 
would  suggest  that  you  comb  it  another  way  to 
cover  up  the  streaks. 

The  basis  of  hair  beauty  is  health  because 
the  hair  gets  its  substance,  like  every  other 
structure  of  the  body,  from  the  blood.  When 
your  vitality  is  lowered  the  hair  always  shows 
it. 

You  should  weigh  about  135  pounds. 

Joan: 

Of  course,  there  is  such  a  thing  as  being  too 
eager  when  you  meet  boys  for  the  first  time. 
You  must  learn  to  be  interested  but  not  too 
eager  in  your  manner.  That  old  fashioned  idea 
of  a  bit  of  pursuit  is  still  good  in  this  modern 
age! 

Mary  S.: 

Don't  start  worrying  about  your  figure  yet! 
At  your  age  a  girl  is  just  at  the  threshold  of  the 
development  she  will  attain  in  the  next  few 
years.  As  you  grow  older,  you  will  become 
more  perfectly  proportioned.  If  you  don't, 
then  there  will  be  time  enough  to  do  corrective 
exercises. 


Jane: 

I  think  you  are  being  a  bit  severe  with  this 
lad. 

You  say  he  is  a  very  respectable,  nice  chap 
and  he  has  really  only  made  one  false  step 
since  you  have  known  him. 

Probably  he  is  regretting  it  deeply  now. 

If  he  apologizes  to  you,  I  believe  that  I 
would  accept  it  in  good  faith. 

If  he  does  not  make  an  effort  to  say  that  he 
is  sorry  then  I  am  afraid  that  you  will  have  to 
wait  until  he  does. 

Joan  M.: 

You  will  find  that  stretching  exercises  are 
most  beneficial  for  reducing  the  ankles.  The 
very  simple  one  that  consists  of  rising  on  tip- 
toe, up  and  down  twenty  times  each  day,  is 
excellent. 

Massage  will  help  to  reduce  them,  too,  but  it 
requires  patience.  Grasping  the  tissues  in  both 
hands  and  forcibly  twisting  them  upon  the 
ankle  bone  with  the  leg  encircled  so  that  the 
thumbs  meet  at  front,  is  a  good  massage.  You 
should  work  upward  and  knead  the  tissues  as 
much  as  possible. 

Reducing  the  bust  is  difficult.  You  must  be 
careful  not  to  try  massage  yourself,  it  might  be 
injurious  to  the  delicate  tissues.  An  exercise 
that  you  will  find  helpful  is  one  that  goes  as 
follows: 

Raise  the  arms  straight  in  front  of  you  to  the 
height  of  your  shoulders,  palms  inward.  With 
a  vigorous  motion,  throw  them  apart  as  far  as 
you  can. 

Lower  them  to  your  sides  for  a  moment. 
Repeat  ten  times. 

You  did  not  mention  your  age  so  I  can  not 
say  how  much  overweight  you  are. 

I  would  judge  that  you  are  a  trifle  heavy, 
however. 

Mary: 

Glasses  no  longer  are  considered  a  handicap 
to  beauty.  Since  your  face  is  thin,  avoid  heavy 
rims.  Hats  with  brims  are  far  more  flattering 
than  those  without,  they  shadow  the  eyes  and 
do  not  emphasize  the  fact  that  you  are  wearing 
glasses. 

If  you  do  not  need  to  wear  them  constantly, 
why  not  wear  oxford  type  glasses  on  a  chain? 


1931  119 

WIND  AND  WEATHER. 


Gene  Kornman 

Note  the  knowing  smiles  on  the  faces  of  Director  Ernst  Lubitsch  and  Ona 
Munson,  as  they  sit  on  a  porch  beside  the  blue  Pacific  and  grin  for  the 
cameraman.  They've  been  keeping-  company  for  months — are  they  hold- 
ing out  a  sweet  secret  on  us?  Is  betrothal  in  the  bag  and  matrimony  just 
around  the  corner?  Herr  Lubitsch  and  cigar  seem  to  be  saying,  "  Take  a 
good  look,  folks !    I  own  a  Munson !" 


NEED    NOT  DESTROY 


THE 


ChxOvm 


OF  YOU  PL  HANDS 


tiixo   37  SECOND 
keoojuta  tAjexitTruMTi.  keep  h-artcLi 


Haven  t  you  often  wished  for  a  cfuicher,  easier 
way  to  keep  your  nanus  and  arms  well  groomed, 
free  from  any  signs  of  exposure  to  wind,  sun 
or  cold?  I  lere  it  is  .  .  .  apply  a  few  drops  of 
Chamberlain  s  Lotion  to  the  skin  after  any 
exposure  to  weather,  and  always  as  the  finishing 
touch  to  your  toilette.  Instantly  hands  and  arms 
become  smooth,  soft,  youthful.  Stop  watch  tests 
on  the  hands  of  I  1 43  women  showed  that  the 
average  shin  completely  absorbs  this  remarkable 
lotion  in  only  3"  seconds.  So  cjuickly  does  it 
penetrate  the  pores  that  bothersome  massage 
is  unnecessary. 

You  will  enjoy  using  Chamberlain  s  too, 
because  it  is  not  sticky  or  greasy  and  has  a 
delicate  fragrance  of  orange  blossoms.  It  is  an 
excellent  powder  base  and  an  invigorating  as- 
tringent. Sold  at  drug  stores  and  toiletries 
departments,  50c  and  Si. 

Chamberlain's 


LOTION 

*$h& Invisible  Qlove 


To  prove  to  yourself 

bow  quickly  Chamber- 
lain's Lotion  beautifies 
hands  and  arras,  send 
coupon  and  10c  for  purse 
size  flaconetre,  a  two 
week.*'  supply 


Chamberlain  Laboratories 

Dept  15 

Des  Moines,  Iowa 
Enclosed  is  10c.  Please  send  mc  the  purse  size  flacou  of  Cham- 
berlain's Lotion. 

Name 

Address 

City State 


I  20 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


L 


let  every  package  say 
"GOOD  HEALTH  to  all!" 


PUT  Christmas  Seals  on  all  your  Christ- 
mas packages.  Let  these  bright  little 
messengers  carry  the  good  news  that  you, 
too,  are  doing  your  bit  to  fight  tuberculosis, 
to  protect  the  health  of  your  community. 

Cylelp    Csigkl      \_yuberculosis 

BUY   CHRISTMAS    SEALS 

THE  NATIONAL,  STATE  AND  LOCAL  TUBERCULOSIS  ASSOCIATIONS  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 


Woles 


HOW  TO  REMOVE  THEM 

A  simple,  home  treatment — 25 
years  success  in  my  practice. 
Moles  dry  up  and   drop  off. 
Write  for  free  Booklet. 
WM.  DAVIS,  M.D.,  124-D  Grove  Ave.,Woodbridge,  N.J. 


AGENTS!  BIG  PROFITS! 


SELL  THE  NEW  BOOK  EVERY  WOMAN  WANTS 

"How  to  Be  a  Successful  Hostess— What  Every  Woman 
Should    Know    About    Entertaining   and    Etiquette." 

Reullt  for  $2.  Stnd  $1  for  Your  Copy. 
225  Pages.  Tells  how  lo  be  correct  and  popular,  how  to  be 
an  interesting  conversationalist  and  how  lo  entertain  friends 
in  the  home  Should  be  in  every  household  Excellent 
.Christmas  gift  CO  relatives  and  friends.  We  also  want 
"^  .-7—-  agents  to  sell  our  beautiful  Christmas  Cards.  Send  50c  lor 
—  -—C'-'a  boxed  assoilment  which  retails  at  SI  00. 

GAINSBOROUGH  CO.  EVKTOHSUtYV: 


i 


i;»::o::o:&::<8i$:o::<>:s>:is:^^^ 


IA  CHRISTMAS  GIFT  That  Willi 

}  Be  Appreciated  Throughout  the  Year  | 


:o: 

I 

:<►: 
A  subscription  to  PHOTOPLAY!  g 

TURN  TO  PAGE  103  | 

»::<>::«:<>::«aa-«:o::^^ 


Latest  Beauty  Fads 

of  Hollywood 

Stars 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  31  ] 

eyebrows  are  one  of  the  most  important  parts 
of  a  woman's  face,  since  she  expresses  so  much 
with  them,  and  Gloria  takes  great  care  of 
hers.  Leila  Hyams  combs  her  eyebrows  with 
a  little  fine  comb,  first  brushing  them  upwards 
and  then  shaping  them  into  an  arch.  Combing 
keeps  life  in  the  brows.  Plucking  them  takes 
care  of  the  width.  A  pencil  should  be  used  to 
add  the  proper  length. 

General  Face  Make-Up 

"YOU  know,  of  course,  what  rouge  will  do.  It 
•*■  should  be  applied  high  on  the  cheek  bone 
into  the  area  of  pufiiness  under  the  eye — but  it 
should  be  a  mere  shadow  when  it  goes  that 
high — and  then  blended  downwards  into  a 
lighter  shade  of  rouge.  The  shape  of  the  face 
should  be  considered.  Marilyn  Miller,  for 
example,  has  a  round  face,  so  she  applies  her 
rouge  with  an  up  and  down  movement,  while 
Loretta  Young,  with  a  long  face,  uses  a  circu- 
lar movement.  And  if  the  ears  show,  rouge 
the  tips  slightly. 

I  believe  you  know  enough  about  general 
face  make-up,  but  here's  a  swell  trick  from 
Claudette  Colbert.  She  uses  a  soft  pipe 
cleaner  as  her  last  gesture  after  the  make-up 
is  on.  It  cleans  up  the  face  and  gives  it  a 
finished  look.  She  runs  the  cleaner  along  her 
eyebrows,  under  her  eyes  to  remove  the  pow- 
der and  around  the  outer  edge  of  her  lips  to 
make  a  defined  line  between  them  and  the 
rest  of  her  face  and  (and  here's  a  trick  worth 
remembering)  she  runs  the  pipe  cleaner  from 
the  base  of  her  nose  to  the  top  of  her  lip  in 
that  natural  indentation  in  the  lip.  This 
removes  the  powder  and  casts  a  shadow, 
bringing  out  the  depth  of  the  indentation — 
which  is  always  a  beauty  sign. 

It  is  a  mistake,  according  to  Elissa  Landi, 
for  women  to  try  to  make  their  mouths  look 
smaller  than  they  are.  Elissa  has  a  small 
mouth  naturally.  She  makes  it  up  so  that  it 
will  look  larger.  And  Irene  Dunne  soaks  her 
lips  in  a  good  cream  to  keep  them  from  crack- 
ing and  to  make  them  full  and  attractive. 
It  softens  the  lips  without  wrinkling  them. 

Lil  Dagover  uses  a  great  deal  of  oil  (being 
careful  to  get  the  kind  that  does  not  cause 
hair  to  grow)  on  her  face  to  keep  it  soft  yet 
free  from  wrinkles.  She  also  takes  a  tablespoon 
of  olive  oil  every  morning  of  her  life.  And 
Dolores  Del  Rio,  who  has  never  had  a  face 
blemish,  adds  to  the  general  use  of  creams  and 
softeners,  the  drinking  of  four  glasses  of  milk 
daily  as  her  secret.  She  has  done  this  ever 
since  she  was  a  little  girl  in  Mexico. 

Between  pictures,  the  stars  spend  hours  of 
their  time  on  beauty  culture,  but  when  they're 
working  they  have  even  less  time  than  the 
average  girl.  None  of  the  things  I've  told  you 
about  take  up  much  time  (with  the  exception 
of  the  false  eyelashes,  which  need  only  be 
done  every  week  or  ten  days). 

What  it  takes  to  be  beautiful  is  the  use  of 
many  different  cosmetics,  perseverance  and 
vigilance.  Nobody  knows  this  better  than 
the  Hollywood  actresses.  You  can  profit 
by  their  experiences  in  the  quest  of  beauty. 


Photoplay 

is  first  always  with  latest  Hollywood 

beauty  secrets.  Valuable  hints  for  you 

every  month 


122 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


You  never*  wcirit 
to  cjo  c*rit|wlterre!,/ 

Movies,  dances,  dinner   parties — it's 

always  the  same  old  story — you're  too 

tired  or  you  don't  feel  well. 

Don't  let  a  headache  or  the  feeling  of 

enervation  that  comes  ever  so  often 

rob  you  of  your  good  times. 

Every  druggist  sells  this  old,  reliable 

remedv  in  powders  or  tablets. 

KOHLER   MFG.    CO. 

Baltimore,  Maryland 

'C,T>Tr7,"|7"  Send  today  for  sample 
JT  X\J_jJli  of  this  reliable  remedy 


KO  H  L 


ANTI  DOT 


Jh^  H  E  A  DACH 


Neuralgia,    Periodic  and   Other   Simple    Nerve   Pains 

DEVELOP  YOUR  FIGURE 

Possess  Those  Charming  Curves 
£~\      Style  Demands  Today 

No  medicine  or  special  equip- 
ment necessary. 
Satisfaction  Guaranteed 

Developine  is  a  product  of  modern 
science.  It  has  satisfied  and  brought 
pleasure  to  thousands  of  women — 
This  new  home  treatment  has  helped 
thousands  to  develop  arms,  neck, 
chest,  legs,  or  any  other  part  of  the 
body  without  any  inconvenience  or 
discomfort  quickly  and  absolutely 
harmlessly. 

LIMITED  OFFER 
Regular    $3    size,    large    jar    Devel- 
opine for  only  $1.65.    Nothing  more 
to  buy — just  Mail  Coupon  promptly. 
Virginia  Pierce,  Oept.  T 

116  W.  14th  St.,  N.  Y.  C. 
Please  send  me  your  regular  $3  size 
(large  jar)  of  Developine  and  FREE 
• — complete  instruction  how  I  can 
develop  my  figure  quickly  and  with- 
out any  equipment — I  will  pay  post- 
master $1.65  plus  a  few  cents 
postage. 


A 


/ 


/ 


Name    .  . 
Address . 


i5£8*aW 


Tst. 
since 


GOVERNMENT  ^^91/7  ,88tt 

Send  for  Bargain  Catalog 

INQUIBIEf  -^WILL  RECEIVE  ^J 'PROMPT  A TTEHTION  yj 


.  Press  cxSons   Co 


809 Chestnut  St.  Phila.Pa. 


ft  Price 


Save  orer 
H-Roek   Bottom 
Prica  on  all  standard  offica 


farad.  Alio  Portables  at  reduced  prices. 

SEND  NO  MONET 

All  lata   roodela  completely    refiniahed^ 
like  brand  new.  Fully  Guarantied. 
Sent   oo    19  dare'  trial.    Send    No 
Money.  Big*  Free  Catalog  abows  actu- 
al machine*  in  full  colors.  Greatest  bar- 
gain* ever  offered.  Send  at  once  I  I 

International  Typewriter  Exch.,  Hit.  12"^ "&*•*> 


The  Shadow  Stage 

The  National  Guide  to  Motion  Pictures 

OUCO.    0.  K.   PAT.  OFF.) 


CONTINUED  FROM  PACE  49  ] 


THE  ONE  WAY  TRAIL— Columbia 

HTHE  children  will  fall  off  their  scats  with 
*■  glee  when  they  see  this  one,  even  though 
the  adults  may  find  a  few  inconsistencies. 
Tim  McCoy  is  the  star  and  you  know  how 
handsome  he  can  look.  For  support  he  has 
pretty  Doris  Hill,  Polly  Ann  Young  and 
Carroll  Nye.  Great  entertainment  for  the 
kids. 

NIGHT  RAID  (UN  SOIR  DE  RAFLE)— 
Osso  Prod. 

A  VERY  gay  little  French  picture.  The 
■*»-story  (you  get  the  idea  from  the  pan- 
tomime if  you  don't  understand  zat  ooh-la-la 
French)  seems  to  concern  a  prize-fighter  who 
is  torn  between  his  real  sweetheart  and  the 
heartless,  wealthy  siren.  The  camera  angles 
are  charming  and  it  all  moves  in  a  brisk, 
spritely  manner. 

TERROR  BY  NIGHT— 
Famous  Attractions 

""PHIS  is  a  splendidly-directed  mystery  tale 
*■  that's  packed  with  excitement  and  sus- 
pense. If  you  can  guess  the  answer  to  Who 
Is  The  Murderer  and  How,  before  the  finish, 
you're  good!  Una  Merkel  and  ZaSu  Pitts 
score  best  in  a  splendid  cast,  both  being  good 
for  a  lot  of  laughs  to  season  the  melodrama. 

GRIEF  STREET— Chesterfield 

A  DD  a  locked  door,  a  barred  window  and 
■**-a  strangled  actor  to  a  group  of  suspects, 
all  of  whom  have  good  alibis — and  you  have 
the  plot  of  this  mystery  drama.  It  is  pretty 
weak  throughout,  even  though  you  don't  know 
whoisguilty  until  the  end.  John  Holland  plays 
a  reporter.    Barbara  Kent  is  the  love  interest. 

THE  LOVE  STORM— 
British  International 

A  LIGHTHOUSE  and  the  sea  serve  as 
background  for  this  slow-moving  story. 
It  tells  of  the  emotions  aroused  in  three  men 
by  one  woman  when  they  are  all  exiled  in  a 
lighthouse.  A  murder  is  committed  and  the 
fives  of  the  others  are  all  but  wrecked. 


CONVICTED— Supreme  Features 

A  MURDER  mystery  at  sea — something 
■*»-on  the  order  of  "Transatlantic,"  and  quite 
as  baffling.  Aileen  Pringle,  as  an  actrcs-,  is 
suspected  of  two  shipboard  murders.  Jameson 
Thomas,  reporter-detective,  finds  the  real 
killer  after  thrills  aplenty.  Harry  Myers, 
Dorothy  Christy  and  Richard  Tucker  add 
fine  performances  to  a  story  that  will  provide 
you  with  more  than  the  usual  quota  of  excite- 
ment and  suspense. 

IN  LINE  OF  DUTY— 
Monogram  Prod. 

rT"HIS  is  one  of  those  north  woods  things 
*-  where  the  Northwest  Mounted  Police  get 
their  man  again.  Noah  Beery  is  the  man, 
and  James  Murray  is  the  redcoat  who  gets 
him,  after  Sue  Carol,  as  Noah's  daughter,  gets 
all  balled  up  'twixt  love  and  duty,  and,  be- 
tween times,  goes  swimming  in  some  pretty 
north  woods  pools.  Beautiful  photography; 
minimum  of  dialogue;  but  only  fair  enter- 
tainment. 

THE  HURRICANE  HORSEMEN— 
Willis  Kent  Prod. 

T_TERE'S  Lane  Chandler,  playing  the  honest- 
*  -Mo-goodness  hero  of  a  fast-moving  thriller, 
with  a  Spanish  atmosphere.  That  boy  has 
the  goods.  He  is  supported  by  pretty 
Marie  Quillan.  The  narrow  escapes  and 
happy  ending  will  make  the  young  off- 
spring say:  "Mom,  let's  go  to  another 
Western." 

CAPTIVATION— Capital  Prod. 

TTWO  things  of  interest  in  this  British-made 
*■  talkie — a  mature,  stouter  but  still  pos- 
sessed-of-that  -certain-something  Conway 
Tearle,  and  the  leading  woman,  Betty  Stock- 
field.  In  a  better  story,  with  better  lighting 
and  photography,  Miss  Stockfield  might  (we 
say  might)  out-Dietrich  Garbo.  This  one 
reaches  its  climax  in  one  of  those  wife-in- 
name-only  situations;  as  passe  in  motion  pic- 
ture stories  today  as  knee-length  skirts  in 
fashion. 


How  Madge  Evans  Grew  to  Stardom 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  40  ] 


all  the  pull  in  the  world  could  make  them  see 
her  as  dynamic  or  dramatic.  She  played  Ina 
Claire's  young  sister  in  "Our  Betters."  What 
she  wanted  was  the  type  of  role  Ina  played. 
Sophisticated,  smart,  intelligent,  emotional. 
But  the  only  roles  she  secured  were  those  in 
which  she  could  be  natural. 

With  one  part  after  another  coming  to  her  as 
involuntarily  as  rain  patters  in  your  garden, 
Madge  turned  her  back  upon  them.  She  was 
going  dramatic,  youth  or  no  youth;  producers 
or  no  producers.  She  went  to  Elitchs  Park, 
Denver,  and  joined  the  same  famous  stock 
company  that  cradled  Fredric  March,  Ray- 
mond Hackett,  Don  Cook,  C.  Henry  Gordon 
and  scores  of  others. 

You  know  stock!  She  played  young  flappers 
and  old,  grease-painted,  bed-ridden  women. 
She  returned  to  New  York — with  experience. 
Only — producers  looked  at  her  and  forgot  the 


experience.  She  was  still  young;  still  im- 
maturely-figured;  she  still  gave  the  impression 
that  something  was  interfering  with  the  sound 
in  her  adolescent  throat. 

There  was  nothing  left  to  do  but  make  the 
best  of  her  ingenue  opportunities.  When 
"Phillip  Goes  Forth"  was  written  especially 
for  her  and  a  salary  of  S.?50  a  week  tossed  on  as 
shiny  a  silver  platter  as  has  ever  been  moulded, 
she  took  it. 

This  was  last  spring,  when  motion  picture 
companies  were  making  a  new  search  for 
potential  star  material.  They  sought  Madge 
Evans.  She  was  indifferent;  sincerely  indiffer- 
ent. Dislike  of  the  screen  had  become  a  more 
and  more  deeply  rooted  complex;  love  for  the 
stage,  ambition  to  overcome  youth  and  prove 
dramatic  ability,  more  and  more  of  an  obses- 
sion. 

Madge  knows  now  that  film  companies  and 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


121 


$2,000  Prize  Won  by  Girl 


[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  69 


Not  interested  in  acting,  she  would  like  to 
direct  or  write  for  pictures.  In  high  school  she 
wrote,  produced,  cast  and  costumed  a  play 
about  Henry  the  VIII.  She  averaged  seeing 
three  pictures  over  the  week-end.  Not  allowed 
to  go  on  school  nights,  she  went  to  the  movies 
with  her  family  every  Friday  evening,  took  a 
group  of  girl  friends  every  Saturday  afternoon, 
and  often  went  with  a  bunch  of  young  folks 
on  Sunday  evenings. 

HER   favorite   players   are   Janet   Gaynor, 
Dolores  Del  Rio,  John  Barrymore,  Fredric 
March,  Bill  Powell,  Billy  Haines  and  George 


have  written  the  essay  without  your  help  and 
encouragement." 

The  teacher  took  it.  A  few  weeks  later  Jane 
was  in  the  school  library  and  she  noticed  a 
fine  new  revolving  bookcase  for  reference 
volumes. 

"How  did  this  happen?"  she  asked.  "We've 
needed  such  a  thing  for  a  long  time." 

"You  ought  to  know,"  said  a  friend.  "You 
gave  it." 

The  teacher  had  used  the  money  to  buy  the 
bookcase. 

What  will  grow  out  of  this  nobody  knows. 
But  undoubtedly  the  $2,000  for  the  Photo- 


HERE  is  the  way  that  one 
writer  feels  about  the  contest. 
Mary  G.  Power,  of  Pasadena, 
Calif.,  writes  the  following  letter 
in  a  spirit  that  should  give  all 
who  submitted  manuscripts  a 
message  of  courage.  She  says: 
"Thank  you  —  PHOTOPLAY 
and  Warner  Bros,  for  holding 
your  recent  scenario  contest. 
Here's  what  you  did  for  me. 
For  two  long  years,  trying  to  lick 
the  old  T.B.  I  planned  to  write 
some  day.  Your  contest  was  the 
direct  stimulus  to  my  completing 
a  scenario.  No,  I  probably  won't 
win  a  prize,  but  the  joy  of  creat- 
ing is  now  mine.    Vividly,  keenly, 


it  seems  as  though,  while  my 
body  remains  in  bed,  my  spirit 
climbs  distant  peaks  and  sails 
happily  into  strange,  fascinating 
waters. 

"Mona,  the  heroine  of  my 
scenario,  has  become  a  living 
person  to  me.  In  this  great  world 
of  imagination,  the  handicaps  of 
ill  health,  the  aching  loneliness 
of  long  nights  are  forgotten. 

"Thanks  to  the  kindly  tips  of 
the  story  editor  of  Warner  Bros., 
one  has  some  specific  idea  of  what 
the  companies  most  desire.  Some 
day,  I  hope,  my  brain  children 
will  achieve  success  and  recogni- 
tion." Mary  G.  Power. 


Arliss,  and  her  favorite  type  of  picture  is  the 
mystery  story,  especially  "The  Maltese  Fal- 
con." When  she  saw  that  she  did  not  dream 
that  some  day  her  own  story  would  be  pro- 
duced by  the  company  that  made  it — Warner 
Bros. 

Yet  her  own  story  is  not  a  mystery.  For 
obvious  reasons,  the  plot  cannot  be  sketched 
here.  Suffice  that  it  is  different  in  theme,  yet 
not  "tricky." 

It  is  a  human,  absorbing  tale. 

With  the  contest  money  received  for  her 
essay,  she  made  a  beautiful  gesture.  When  the 
$50  check  was  given  her  she  endorsed  it  and 
handed  it  to  her  English  teacher  saying, 
"This  rightfully  belongs  to  you.     I  could  not 


PLAY-Warner  Bros,  award  has  started  a  fine 
literary  career. 

It's  our  guess  that  you'll  be  hearing  more 
of  Jane  Considine! 

And  soon  you'll  be  seeing  Marian  Marsh 
and  David  Manners  playing  the  leading  roles 
in  "Beauty  and  the  Boss."  You'll  enjoy  the 
picture. 

"VDU  who  participated  in  the  contest  will 
■*■  have  a  keen  interest  in  discovering  the  story 
that  was  chosen.  And  think  of  the  thrill  that 
Jane  Considine  will  have  in  knowing  that  her 
brain  children  have  come  alive  in  the  person 
of  two  such  good  actors  as  Marian  Marsh 
and  David  Manners! 


TO  the  thousands  of  amateur 
writers  who  submitted  some 
excellent  stories  but  failed  to  win 
a  prize,  we  say:  Try  again.  Turn 
that  idea  into  a  short  story  or  a 
novel  and  then  sell  the  picture 
rights  after  publication !  It's  been 
done  before,  you  know. 

But  don't  ask  us  to  try  to 
market  your  stories  to  picture 
companies.  That's  not  part  of 
our  business,  except  when  co- 
operating in  a  special  contest  of 
this  sort. 

And  don't  ask  us  to  return  any 


manuscripts  submitted  in  this 
contest. 

The  rules  have  stated  clearly, 
and  it  has  constantly  been  reiter- 
ated that  no  manuscripts  will 
be  returned  under  any  circum- 
stances. 

Now  that  formal  announce- 
ment of  the  award  has  been 
made,  rights  to  the  other  man- 
uscripts automatically  revert 
back  to  their  authors. 

We  hope  you  kept  a  copy  of 
yours,  and  we  wish  you  better 
luck  next  time! 


an  Eyelash  Make-up 
that  Actually  Makes 

LASHES 
GROW 


r 


IT'S  TRUE  —  true  and 
proven.  A  mascara 
which  gives  lashes  a  Double  Treatment 
—  that  is  the  new  discovery. 

It's  called  the  new  Liquid  Winx. 
First  you  use  it  as  a  waterproof  mascara. 
It  darkens  lashes,  makes  them  look  soft, 
delicate  and  fascinating.  Eyes  take 
on  new  sparkle,  new  appeal.  Yet  the 
effect  is  natural — in  good  taste. 

And  (while  you  use  Winx  as  a  mas- 
cara) it  actually  promotes  the  health 
and  growth  of  lashes.  Winx  contains 
stimulating  oils  which  turn  skimpy, 
straggly  lashes  into  a  long,  curly,  be- 
witching fringe.  A  week's  use  actually 
shows  definite  improvements! 

You  may  try  the  new  Liquid  Winx — 
simply  by  sending  10f^  for  a  Vanity  Size 
— enough  for  a  month's  use. 


ROSS  COMPANY,  Dept.  P-3 

243  West  17.th  Street,  New  York 
I  enclose  1 0(i  for  Liquid  Winx,  Vanity  Size, 


Black_ 


_Bro\vn_ 


Name 

Address- 


nron   ATADV    fRF  AM  ^^   >— ' 


DEPILATORY  CREAM 

Perfumed — White — Quick — Safe.  Jusf  spread  il  on 
and  rinse  off.  Sold  Everywhere.  GIANT  TUBE  50c 
ZIP  Epilator-IT'S  OFF  because  IT'S  OUT 

(Formerly  $5.00)  Now  in  a  new  $1 .00  size  package 


Permanently  Destroys  Hair 


CORNS-^REfTOEi 

—  relieved  in  ONE   minuie^f  J 

by  these  thin,  healing,  safeV/  I  k  t  I 
pads  1 They  remove thecause  ■.  f  if/ 
— shoefriction  and  pressure.  ^A^J  J/  ^A 

DrScholls       .-■■  ^ 
Zino-pads 


Sizes  also  for 
Callouses  and  Bunions 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


agents  who  sought  her  to  make  tests,  sign  con- 
tracts, etc.,  thought  she  was  merely  being  clever. 
Although  they  were  completely  unconscious  of 
the  fact  she  was  Madge  Evans,  the  child 
actress,  they  thought  she  knew  that  indiffer- 
ence breeds  interest  among  picture  producers 
as  dampness  breeds  moss.  But  Madge  never 
thought  of  that  angle.  She  was  merely  being 
sincere. 

She  refused  to  take  tests  until  a  boy  in  her 
company  asked  her  to  help  him  make  one.  You 
know  how  she  photographs.  When  the  hungry 
producers  saw  this  accidental  test,  they  knew 
it,  too. 

•""THE  offers  poured  in.  She  shook  her  head. 
*■  She  told  an  M-G-M  executive,  "If  I  go  into 
pictures  it  will  be  solely  for  the  money.  I  am 
not  interested.  But  if  you  offer  me  enough,  I 
cannot  refuse  it.  I  am  getting  S350  a  week  on 
the  stage  but  there  are  always  long  periods 
when  stage  people  do  not  work.  When  I  am 
offered  S500  a  week  for  steady  employment  I 
will  have  to  say  yes.  But  the  only  thing  you 
have  which  can  possibly  interest  me  is  money." 

She  went  to  Philadelphia  with  "Phillip  Goes 
Forth."  Metro  called  her  mother  to  say  they 
had  met  Miss  Evans'  figure.  The  play  closed 
Saturday;  they  left  for  Hollywood  Sunday. 

In  truth,  Madge  was  heartbroken.  Oh,  she 
felt  lucky.  Five  hundred  a  week  with  options 
calling  for  much  more,  could  not  be  shrugged 
off  like  a  too-easy  compliment.  But  she  really 
didn't  want  this  to  happen  to  her.  Aside  from 
her  distrust  for  pictures,  there  was  love.  She 
was  deeply  in  love  with  a  New  York  business 
boy.  They  were  even  considering  marriage. 
Hollywood  was  so  far  away! 

Madge  knew  how  to  cherish  love  which  is  re- 
turned. Like  Joan  Blondell,  her  first  experi- 
ence in  life's  greatest  thrill  had  been  unrequited. 
She  had  loved  him;  he  had  liked  her.  She  had 
spent    her    nineteenth    Christmas    and    New 


Years  sick  in  bed  from  suffering.  She  had 
sworn  it  would  never  happen  again.  But  it 
had.  And  this  time  it  had  happened  to  both 
parties.  And  now,  to  trail  to  Hollywood  just 
for  money — 

What  happened  to  Madge  Evans  in  Holly- 
wood was  instinctive.  I  don't  think  she,  her- 
self, realizes  it.  I  believe  she  will  be  am.i/.c  d 
when  she  reads  what  the  New  York  woman  says 
about  her  in  the  first  paragraphs  of  this  story. 

Nothing  nurtures  sophistication  like  indiffer- 
ence! Find  me  the  most  openly  indifferent 
woman  in  any  city  and  I  will  point  her  out  as 
the  one  labeled  "the  most  sophisticated."  That 
I-don't-particularly-care  attitude  has  become 
synonymous  with  poise  and  worldly  knowledge. 

Madge  was  sincerely  indifferent;  she  inno- 
cently became  sophisticated! 

Furthermore,  she  was  unconsciously  giving 
way  to  a  long  pent-up  desire.  She  had  wanted 
to  be  like  Ina  Claire.  She  had  longed  to  play 
sophisticated  women.  Well,  no  one  knew  her 
in  Hollywood.  She  could  be  what  she  had 
pictured  herself  for  years  but  what  producers 
had  never  been  able  to  picture. 

This  was  sub-conscious,  of  course.  But  the 
sub-conscious  ploughed  through  the  conscious. 
Involuntarily,  her  voice  deepened.  Unaided, 
that  youthful  tonsil-twang  disappeared.  Her 
figure  had  long  been  developed  but  she  had  not 
known  how  to  show  its  development.  An  un- 
deliberated  tightening  of  the  waistline;  another 
unpremeditated  tightening  in  the  front  and 
the  back.  Hands  and  arms  that  unwittingly 
imitated  women  whom  she  had  long  wanted  to 
imitate,  without  knowing  the  secret  of  imitation. 

\A  ADGE  EVANS  blossomed  from  a  child  to 
-*•  »-*-a  woman  at  twenty-two  because  a  new  en- 
vironment loosened  inhibitions  of  a  lifetime.  She 
had  wanted  to  be  like  Ina  Claire  since  she  was 
ten.  Her  desires  became  actualities  as  in- 
stinctively as  a  boy  turns  from  the  pretense  of 


What  does  an  actor  think  about  as  he  hangs  a  new  dressing-room  key  on 
the  old  chain?  Regis  Toomey,  one  of  the  smash  hits  of  old  "Alibi"  in  the 
talkies'  baby  days,  probably  thinks  he's  doing  all  right.  He's  scored  hits, 
lately,  in  "24  Hours,"  Ruth  Chatterton's  "Once  a  Lady,"  and  now  he  crosses 
the  goal  line  in  "Touchdown" 


THE  NEWEST  THING 
IN  SMART  COMPACTS 

Beautiful  bakelite  and  enamel  case  with 
light  or  medium  rouge.  Fair  Tone  face  pow- 
der and  two  puffs.  Your  choice  of  four 
color  schemes — red  and  gold,  green  and 
gold,  red  and  black  or  gold  and  black. 
Makes  a  perfect  gift.  Your  dealer  has  it. 

FAIR-EST 

"The  Natural  Cosmetics" 

CREATED  in  HOLLYWOOD 

for  the  FAIREST 

of  the  FAIR 

Fair-est  Rouge  .  .  .  Face 
Poiader .  .  .  Perfume  .  .  . 
Dusting  Powder . . .  Bath 
Salts  .  .  .  complete  set  at 
your  dealer.  $2. 50 


Claudia  Dell. 
Radio  Pictures'  Star 


THE 


501 


FAIREST  COMPANY 
HOLLYWOOD 
Fifth  Avenue  New  York 


HCTCL      . 

MONTCUR 


Room  and 
Bath 

Tub  and  Shower 

*3  to  '5 

per  day 
For  2  persons 

U  to  «6 

per  day 

Suites 

*8  to  *12 

per  day 
Special    Monthly 
and  Yearly   Rates 


49th  to  50th  Sts. 
Lexington  Ave. 
NEW  YORK  CITY 

800  Rooms 

Each  with  Tub 

and  Shower 

Radio  in  Every  Room 


3  minutes'  walk  from  Grand  Central.  Times 
Square,  Fifth  Avenue  Shops  important 
commercial  centers,  leading  shops  and 
theatres  nearby.    lOminutes  to  Penn.  Station. 


Grand   Central   Palace 
only  2  short  blocks  away 


S.  Gregory  Taylor  ,, 

President 

Oscar  W.Ri  hards 

Manager 


I24 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


GnmdicA  GmYUvtr 
Hick  th&ruth 

If  your  cheeks  are  sallow,  eyes  dull ;  if  you're 
always  dead  tired,  don't  try  to  hide  the  truth. 
Take  Dr.  Edwards  Olive  Tablets.  A  safe 
substitute  for  dangerous  calomel.  Non-habit- 
forming.  A  pure  vegetable  compound  that 
helps  relieve  constipation,  cleanses  the  sys- 
tem, removes  the  greatest  cause  of  pallid 
cheeks.  A  matchless  corrective  in  use  for  20 
years.  Take  nightly  and  watch  pleasing  re- 
sults. Know  them  by  their  olive  color.  At 
druggists,  15c,  30c  and  60c. 


PRICE    $000 
POSTPAID    a— 


JULIAN  BOWES 


Xmas  Gift 

Statuette  of 

GRETA 
GARBO 


A  distinctive  gift  for  your 
friends  or  family — beautiful 
portrait  bust  by  Julian 
Bowes,  Sculptor. 

The  statuette  is  a  replica 
of  the  sensational  life  size 
work  shown  in  exhibitions 
during  the  New  York  art 
season.  You  will  be  delighted 
with  its  loveliness.  Sold  only 

by  the  sculDtor — each  head  directly 
from  hi9  own  hand.  A  genuine  work 
of  Art.  Beautiful  Ivory  finish.  0  iu. 
high. 

3S  West  14th  St. 
New  York  City 


DR.    WALTER'S 

latest  REDUCING  BRASSIERE 
gives  you  that  trim,  youthful  fig- 
ure that  the  new  styles  demand. 
3  to4inch reduction.  Send  d>«>  oc 
bust  measure.  Price  only  v*«^" 
HIP.  WAIST  and  ABDOMINAL 
REDUCER  for  men  and  women; 
takes  care  of  that  ugly  roll  above 
corset.  Laced  at  back.  *>q  eft 
Price  only «j>u»«Jl/ 

RELIEVE  swelling  and  varicose 
veina  and  reduce  your  limb*  with 
DR.  WALTER'S  lair,., us  rubber 
hose.    Worn  next  to  the  akin 
Send  ankle  and  calf  measure. 

9  inch SS.00  pair 

14  inch S6.75  pair 

11  inch S3.7S 

(not  covering  foot)  /  j-v'/    -W/ 

\  l\\,/l  All     garments    are  I <W/f    M '/ 

.r    \     /  \MLi  made   of   pure  gi"»  '*» 

rubber  —  Eesh  c 
ored. 

Writeforliternture.  If/ 

Send  check  or  money  order — no  cash.  J M  / 

Dr.  Jeanne  P.H.  Walter.  389  Fifth  A»e..Ne*  York 


The  Winners  of  PHOTOPLAY'S 

Picture    Puzzle    Contest    will    be 

announced  in  the 

January,  1932,  Issue  of 
PHOTOPLAY 

On  sale  at  all  newsstands 
about  Dec.  10 


shunning  women  to  an  open  chase  after  them. 

Supervisor  Hunt  Stromberg  must  have 
noticed  this  subtle  change  I  have  been  describ- 
ing. She  came  to  Hollywood  to  play  opposite 
Ramon  Novarro  in  "Son  of  India."  A  more 
unsophisticated,  ingenue  role  has  never  been 
depicted.  Her  contract  was  for  this  one 
picture  with  an  option  for  five  years.  She 
hoped  they  would  not  take  up  the  option. 

"Sporting  Blood"  was  ready  for  casting. 
They  were  searching  for  a  tough,  worldly  young 
woman  who  could  play  Lew  Cody's  mistress 
adroitly.  Stromberg,  who  had  supervised 
"Son  of  India,"  sent  for  Madge.  "I  believe 
you  can  do  it,"  he  said  with  a  baffled,  I-wonder- 
why-I-think-that  expression.  "Make  up  for 
the  test." 

She  slicked  back  her  hair,  pulled  her  dress 
sleazily  about  her,  walked  in  a  slouchingly  in- 
different manner  before  the  camera.  Behold! 
The  new  Madge  Evans  stood  before  the  watch- 
ful eyes  of  Hollywood  producers.  She  played 
the  part. 

She  returned  to  the  unsophisticated  girl  with 
Charles  Farrell  in  "Heartbreak"  but  with  an 
unsophistication  which  hints  of  subtlety — a 
sort  of  invitational  unsophistication — as  differ- 
ent from  the  unsophisticated  Madge  Evans  of 
the  stage  as  a  twenty-dollar-a-month  tenement 
apartment  differs  from  a  thousand  dollar  apart- 
ment on  Park  Avenue. 

Right  now  she's  busy  mulling  over  the 
problem:  Shall  I  marry  the  man  in  New  York? 
Do  I  really  love  him  enough?  Will  we  be  truly 
happy? 

The  proof  of  all  I  have  said  in  a  nut-shell.  A 
sophisticated  woman  wonders  about  love — 
weighs  it  as  carefully  as  a  housewife  measures 
her  ingredients  for  cake  baking.  An  un- 
sophisticated woman  loves  without  weighing. 


Wandering  with  the 
Marches 

[  CONTINUED  FROM  PAGE  53  ] 


she  saw  another  Barrymore  pose.  One  night 
she  couldn't  stand  it  any  more. 

"Please  be  yourself,"  she  cried,  "or  I'll 
think  I'm  living  in  sin  with  another  man." 

I  shudder  to  think  what  happens  when  he 
leers  home  as  Dr.  Jckyll  and  Mr.  Hyde. 

They're  really  a  great  pair  together,  romantic 
and  sentimental.  They're  married  four  years 
and  on  the  fourth  anniversary  Fred  wanted  to 
do  the  Big  Thing.  He  came  home  with  three 
dazzling  diamond  bracelets.  Florence  was  to 
pick  the  one  she  liked,  and  they'd  send  the 
other  two  back.    She  sent  them  all  back. 

"This  is  enough  for  me,"  she  said,  showing  a 
small  diamond  engagement  ring,  set  in  iron. 

"Yeah,"  Fred  explained.  "I  gave  it  to  her 
while  we  were  playing  in  stock  together.  I  had 
the  diamond  and  a  friend  of  mine  gave  me  the 
idea  for  the  iron  setting.  It  was  different — and 
cheaper!" 

She  wears  this  engagement  ring  above  a  slim 
platinum  wedding  ring.  Fred  wears  a  wedding 
ring  just  like  it  on  the  second  finger  of  his  left 
hand.  Engraved  in  both  of  them  is  the  quota- 
tion: "No  more  beyond  thine  eyes."  It  is 
taken  from  a  line  in  "The  King's  Henchman," 
Edna  St.  Vincent  Millay's  libretto,  "Now  I 
shall  look  no  more  beyond  thine  eyes." 

That's  the  kind  of  couple  the  Fredric 
Marches  are. 

As  an  actor  he  enjoyed  the  part  of  Tony 
Cavendish  in  "The  Royal  Family."  It  was  an 
actor's  role,  and  he  relished  sloshing  around  in 
this  satire  on  the  Barrymores  as  much  as 
Barrymore  himself  revels  in  grease  paint  and 
whiskers  and  make-up. 

But  he  doesn't  enjoy  the  stamp  this  role  put 
on  him — that  of  a  Barrymore  imitator.  He 
wants  to  be  himself,  preferably  in  light  comedy 
roles.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  part  he  got  the 
greatest  kick  out  of  playing  in  the  movies  was 
the  young  artist  in  "Laughter." 


A  Christmas 

GIFT 

Twelve  Times 


*  II  "HERE  are  several  reasons  why  a 
subscription  to  Photoplay  Maga- 
zine is  such  an  ideal  Christmas  gift. 
Not  only  does  it  continue  its  pres- 
ence month  after  month — long  after 
the  holly  and  mistletoe  are  forgotten 
— but  its  welcome  is  absolute.  You 
know  it  will  please. 

C[  In  these  days  when  everyone  is 
interested  in  motion  pictures,  the  gift 
of  a  magazine  that  reveals  the  inside 
of  the  art  and  industry — every  month 
— is  assured  the  keenest  welcome. 
Photoplay  has  the  brightest  person- 
ality stories,  the  most  appealing  il- 
lustrations and  the  most  reliable  in- 
formation about  the  stars  and  their 
pictures. 

Beautiful  Gift 
Announcement  Card 

With  each  subscription  you  will  re- 
ceive the  beautiful  card  illustrated  on 
Page  17  this  issue,  to  sign  and  mail, 
or  if  you  prefer  hand  to  your  friend 
Christmas  Morning. 
Send — 
#2.50  for  1  year. 

4.00  for  2  years. 

4.00  for  2  1-year  subscriptions. 

2.00  for  each  extra  Gift  Subscription. 

For  Foreign  and  Canada  send  $1.00  in  ad- 
dition to  above  for  each  yearly  subscription 

Mail  Special  Blank  Below — to 

Photoplay  Magazine,  DepL  12-cs, 

919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE,  Dept.  12-CS, 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111. 

I   want  to  take  advantage  of  your  offer  and  en- 
close # (□  Check  □  Money  order) 

to   pay   for  the  following  subscriptions: 

Friend's    Name    

Address     


State 

O   2    years.      □  New.      □  Renewal. 


City 

□    1    year. 

My   Name 

Address    . . 


City State 

□    1    year.      □   2    years.      D  New.      □   Renewal. 
Use    regular    stationery    to    list    additional    subscrip- 


l__ 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


Casts  of  Current  Photoplays 

Complete  for  every  picture  reviewed  in  this  issue 


125 


"AMBASSADOR  HILL"— Fox.— From  the  story 
"Ambassador  From  the  United  States"  by  Vincent 
Shecan.  Screen  play  by  Guy  Bolton.  Directed  by 
Sam  Taylor.  The  cast:  Bill  Harper,  Will  Rogers;  The 
Queen,  Marguerite  Churchill;  Ilka,  Greta  Nissen; 
King  Paul,  Tad  Alexander;  Lot  hot,  Kay  Milland; 
Prince  De  PolikotT.  Gustav  Von  Seyffertitz;  The 
General,  Arnold  KorrT;  Senator  Pillsbury,  Ferdinand 
Municr;  Monte.  Edwin  Maxwell;  North fidd  Slater, 
Ernest  Wood;  Littleton,  Tom  Ricketts. 

"ARE     THESE     OUR     CHILDREN?"— Radio 

Pictures. — From  the  story  by  Wesley  Ruggles. 
Adapted  by  Howard  Estabrook.  Directed  by 
Wesley  Ruggles.  The  cast:  Eddie,  Eric  Linden; 
Mary,  Rochelle  Hudson;  Nick,  Ben  Alexander; 
Florence,  Arlene  Judge;  Giggles.  Roberta  Gale; 
Grandma,  Beryl  Mercer;  Dumbbell,  Mary  Kornman; 
Benny,  Robert  Quirk;  Heinie,  William  Orlamond; 
Bobby,  Billy  Butts. 

"BELOVED  BACHELOR.  THE"— Paramount. 

— From  the  play  by  Edward  Peple.  Adapted  by 
Raymond  Griffith.  Directed  by  Lloyd  Corrigan. 
The  cast:  Michael  Morda,  Paul  Lukas;  Mitzi  Stress- 
man,  Dorothy  Jordan;  Mitzi.  at  6  years,  Betty  Van 
Allen;  Jerry  Wells,  Charlie  Ruggles;  Elinor  Hunter, 
Vivienne  Osborne;  Julie  Stressman,  Leni  Stengel; 
Jimmy  Martin,  John  Breeden;  Winlhrop  Cole,  Harold 
Minjer;  Hortense  Cole,  Marjorie  Gateson. 

"CAPTIVATION"— Capital  Prod.— From  the 
story  by  Edgar  Middleton.  Directed  by  John  Har- 
vel.  The  cast:  Hugh  Somerton,  Conway  Tearle; 
Ann  Moore,  Betty  Stockfield;  Lady  Frosier,  Violet 
Venbrugh;  Graves,  Robert  Farquharson;  Muriel 
Froster,  Marilyn  Mawn;  Col.  Jordan,  A.  Bromley 
Davenport;  Fluffy.  Louie  Tinsley;  Skipper,  Frederick 
Volpe;  Hold  clerk,  George  De  Warfax;  Adventuress, 
Dorothy  Black. 

"CHAMP,  THE"— M-G-M.— From  the  story  by 
Frances  Marion.  Continuity  by  Leonard  Praskins. 
Directed  by  King  Vidor.  The  cast:  Champ,  Wallace 
Beery;  Dink,  Jackie  Cooper;  Linda,  Irene  Rich; 
Sponge,  Roscoe  Ates;  Tim,  Edward  Brophy;  Tony, 
Hale  Hamilton;  Jonah,  Jesse  Scott;  Mary  Lou, 
Marcia  Mae  Jones. 

"CONVICTED"  —  Supreme  Features.  —  From 
the  story  by  Edward  Barry.  Continuity  by  Joe  Van 
Ronkel  and  Barry  Barringer.  Directed  by  Christy 
Cabanne.  The  cast:  Claire  Norvelle,  Aileen  Prrngle; 
Bruce  Allan,  Jameson  Thomas;  Constance  Forbef, 
Dorothy  Christy;  Anthony  Blair,  Richard  Tucker; 
Sturgeon,  Harry  Myers;  Fenlon,  Niles  Welch; 
Mellon,  John  Vosburgh. 

"CUBAN  LOVE  SONG.  THE"— M-G-M.— From 
the  screen  play  by  G.  Gardiner  Sullivan  and  Bess 
Meredyth.  Directed  by  W.  S.  Van  Dyke.  The  cast: 
Terry,  Lawrence  Tibbett;  Nenita.  Lupe  Velez;  Ro- 
mance, Ernest  Torrence;  O.  O.  Jones,  Jimmy  Durante; 
Crystal,  Karen  Morley;  Elvira,  Louise  Fazenda; 
John,  Hale  Hamilton;  Aunt  Rosa,  Mathilda  Comont; 
Terry,  Jr.,  Phillip  Cooper. 


"GIRLS  ABOUT  TOWN"— Paramount.— From 
the  story  by  Zoe  Akins.  Screen  play  by  Raymond 
Griffith  and  Brian  Marlow.  Directed  by  <■ 
Cukor.  Tin-  cast:  Wanda  Howard,  Kay  Francis;  Jim 
Baker,  Joel  McCrea;  Marie  Bailey,  I.ilyan  Tashman; 
Benjamin  Thomas,  Eugene  Pallette;  Jerry  Chase, 
Allan  Dim-hart;  Mrs.  Thomas,  Lucille  Webster 
Gleason;  Alex  Howard,  Anderson  Lawler;  Edna, 
Lucille  Brown;  Webster,  George  Barbier;  Simms, 
Robert  McWadc;  Winnie,  Judith  Wood;  Anne, 
Adrienne  Ames;  Pol.  Claire  Dodd;  Joy,  Hazel  How- 
ard; Billie,  Patricia  Caron. 

"GRIEF  STREET" — Chesterfield.— From  the 
story  by  Arthur  Hoerl.  Directed  by  Richard  Thorpe. 
The  cast:  Jean  Royce.  Barbara  Kent;  Jim  Ryan,  John 
Holland;  Mrs.  Merle,  Dorothy  Christy;  Alvin  Merit-, 
Crauford  Kent;  Pamela  Gregory.  Lillian  Rich;  Frank 
Murray.  Lloyd  Whitlock:  Ted.  Creighton  Hale;  Jar- 
din.  Jann-s  Hurt  is;  Ralph  Burns,  Larry  Steers; 
Michael.  I. air  Mclvcc;  Blake,  Ray  Largay;  Walt, 
Arthur  Brennan. 

"HEARTBREAK"— Fox.— From  the  storv  by 
Llewellyn  Hughes.  Scenario  by  William  Conselman. 
Directed  by  Alfred  L.  Werker.  The  cast:  John 
Merrick,  Charles  Farrell;  Count  Carl  Walden,  Hardie 
Albright;  Countess  Yilma  Walden.  Madge  Evans; 
Capl.  Wolke,  Paul  Cavanagh;  Jerry  Somers,  John 
Arledge;  Count  Walden,  Claude  King;  U.  S.  Am- 
bassador, John  Sainpolis. 

"HURRICANE  HORSEMAN.  THE"— Willis 
Kent  Prod. — From  the  story  by  Douglas  Dawson. 
Adapted  by  Oliver  Drake.  Directed  by  Mandy 
Schaefer.  The  cast:  "Gun"  Smith,  Lane  Chandler; 
Tonita,  Marie  Quillan;  Foncho  Gomez.  Walter  Miller; 
Bull,  Dick  Alexander;  Don  Roberto,  Lafe  McKee; 
Cinco,  Charles  Schaeffer;  Sheriff  Jones,  Yakima 
Canutt;  Rand,  Robert  Smith. 

"IN  LINE  OF  DUTY"— Monogram  Prod.— 
From  the  story  by  G.  A.  Durlam.  Directed  by  Bert 
Glennon.  The  cast:  Felice  Duchene,  Sue  Carol; 
Jean  Duchene,  Noah  Beery;  Jacques  Dupres,  Francis 
MacDonald;  Corporal  Sherwood,  James  Murray; 
Hugh  Eraser,  Richard  Cramer;  Constable,  Frank 
Seider;  Inspector,  Henry  Hall. 

"LEFTOVER  LADIES"— Tiffany  Prod.— From 
the  story  by  Ursula  Parrott.  Adapted  by  Robert 
Presnell.  Directed  by  Erie  Kenton.  The  cast: 
Pat,  Claudia  Dell;  The  Duchess,  Marjorie  Rambeau; 
Ronny,  Walter  Byron;  Jerry,  Alan  Mowbray;  Amy, 
Dorothy  Revier;  Vera,  Rita  La  Roy;  Scoop.  Roscoe 
Karns;  Churchill,  Selmer  Jackson;  Benson,  Franklyn 
Farnum;  Buddy,  Buster  Phelps. 

"LOCAL  BOY  MAKES  GOOD"— First  Na- 
tional.— From  the  play  "The  Poor  Nut"  by  J.  C. 
and  Elliott  Nugent.  Directed  by  Mervyn  LeRoy. 
The  cast:  John  Miller,  Joe  E.  Brown;  Julia  Winters, 
Dorothy  Lee:  Marjorie  Blake.  Ruth  Hall;  Spike 
Hoyt,  Edward  Woods;  Doc,  Wade  Botcler;  Colonel 
Small,  William  Burress;  Wally  Pierce,  Edward 
Nugent;  Coach  Jackson,  John   Harrington. 


Wide  World 

Son  versus  Pop,  for  the  polo  championship  of  the  Will  Rogers  family.    In 

a  charity  game  at  Pasadena,  Calif.,  Will,  Sr.,  led  one  team  and  Young  Will 

the  other.    The  gent  in  the  center  is  Eric  Pedley,  a  famous  polo  shark  who 

played  on  Junior's  side 


QfAS 


nsist  upon 


fJl-Udu<l 

TOMATO  COCKTAIL 


YOU  wouldn't  choose  a  glass  of  thin, 
watery,  flat-tasting  milk  to  one 
fresh  from  the  country — thick, 
creamy,  full-hodietl,  would  you?  No! 

That's  exactly  why  you'll  prefer 
original  College  Inn  Tomato  Juice 
Cocktail.  It's  the  utmost  in  full-bodied, 
full-flavored  tomato  juice;  made  from 
"whole  tomatoes — red,  ripe  and  juicy; 
hand  picked — and  then  blended  into  a 
delicate  spicy  cocktail — not  overdone; 
seasoned  with  rare  delicacy  to  please 
and  cheer.  And  it's  packed  by  the  new, 
exclusive  Hi-Vita  process;  preserves 
all  the  original  flavor  and  vitamins. 

Always  put  up  in  glass  containers — 
you  see  what's  inside — and  the  new 
cap  is  amazingly  easy  to  take  off. 

Drink  original  College  Inn  Tomato 
Juice  Cocktail  today.  Learn  the  dif- 
ference. You'll  never  change!  At  your 
dealer's. 


THE  ORIGINAL 

TOMATO  JUICE 

C  O  C   KTAIL 

College  Inn  Food  Products  Co. 

Hotel  Sherman Chicago 


415  Crccuwich  Si. 


New  York 


126 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931 


What  Do  You  Want  To 
Know  About  The  Pictures? 

Is  it  a  good  picture? 

Is  it  the  kind  of  picture  1  would  like? 
Which  one  shall  we  see  tonight? 

Shall   we   take   the   children. 

PHOTOPLAY  will  solve  these  problems  for 
you — save  your  picture  time  and  money. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

is  truly  the  outstanding  publication  in 
the  great  field  of  motion  pictures.  Its 
stories,  its  special  articles,  its  exclusive 
features  and  departments  are  absolutely 
different  from  anything  to  be  found 
anywhere  else. 


Photoplay    gives    you: 

A  wealth  of  intimate  details  of 
the  daily  lives  of  the  screen  stars 
on  the  lots  and  in  their  homes. 

Striking  editorials  that  cut,  with' 
out  fear  or  favor,  into  the  very 
heart  of  the  motion  picture  in' 
dustry. 

Authorized  interviews  with  your 
favorite  actors  and  actresses  who 
speak  frankly  because  Photoplay 
enjoys  their  full  confidence. 

Articles  about  every  phase  of  the 
screen  by  outstanding  authori' 
ties  who  have  made  pictures  their 
life  business. 


PHOTOPLAY  MAGAZINE 

919  No.  Michigan  Ave.,  CHICAGO 


Gentlemen:  I  enclose  herewith  S2.50  (Canada  and 
Foreign  $3.50)  for  which  you  will  kindly  enter  my 
.subscription  for  Photoplay  Magazine,  lor  one  year, 
effective  with  the  next  issue. 


Send  to 

Street  Address. 


CUy State. 


Photoplay's 

"Shadow  Stage" 

is  nationally  famous.  Here 
are  reviews  of  all  the  new 
pictures,  with  the  casts  of 
all  the  players.  Photo' 
play  also  prints  monthly 
a  complete  summary  of 
every  picture  reviewed  in 
its  pages  for  the  previous 
six  months.  These  are 
but  a  few  of  a  dozen  great 
departments  in  which 
Photoplay  is  as  up-to' 
the-minute  as  your  daily 
newspaper.  You  cannot 
really  know  the  fascinating 
world  of  the  screen  unless 
you  are  a  regular  reader  of 

PHOTOPLAY 


Use    Coupon    Above    or    See 
Christmas  Gift  Offer  on  Page   103 


SUPERB  FICTION 

by  the  Foremost  Writers 


"LOVE  STORM,  THE"— British  Interna- 
tional.— Directed   by   E.   A.    Dupont.     The   cast: 

Eileen  Kell,  Fay  Compton;  "Captain"  Kelt,  Frank 
Harvey;  Gordon  Kingsley,  Ian  Hunter;  Cass,  Edmund 
Willard;  Parsons,  Donald  Calthrop. 

"NIGHT  RAID"  (UN  SOIR  DE  RAFLE)— Osso 
Prod. — From  the  story  by  Henri  Decoin.  Directed 
by  Carmine  Gallone.  The  cast:  Gear  gel,  Albert  Pre- 
jean;  Marielle,  Annabella;  Le  Baron,  Lucien  Baroux; 
Yvonne,  Edith  Mera;  Fred,  Lerner;  Charly,  Constant 
Re  my. 

"ONCE  A  LADY"— Paramount. — From  the  play 
by  Rudolph  Bernauer  and  Rudolph  Oesterreicher. 
Screen  play  by  Zoe  Akins.  Directed  by  Guthrie 
McClintic.  The  cast:  Anna  Keremazoff,  Ruth  Chat- 
terton;  Bennett  Cloud,  Ivor  Novello;  Faith  Fenwick, 
Jill  Esmond;  As  a  child,  Suzanne  Ransom;  Harry 
Corden,  Regis  Toomey;  Jimmy  Fenwick,  Geoffrey 
Kerr;  Lady  Ellen,  Doris  Lloyd;  Roger  Fenwick, 
Herbert  Bunston;  Mrs.  Fenwick,  Gwendolen  Logan. 

"ONE  WAY  TRAIL.  THE"— Columbia.— From 
the  story  by  Claude  Rister.  Continuity  by  George 
Plympton.  Directed  by  Ray  Taylor.  The  cast: 
Tim  Allen,  Tim  McCoy;  Helen  Beck,  Doris  Hill; 
Terry  Allen,  Carroll  Nye;  Mollie,  Polly  Ann  Young; 
Coldeye  Cornell,  Al  Ferguson. 

"PLATINUM  BLONDE"  —  Columbia.  —  From 
the  story  by  Harry  E.  Chandlee  and  Douglas  W. 
Churchill.  Adapted  by  Jo  Swerling.  Directed  by 
Frank  Capra.  The  cast:  Gallagher,  Loretta  Young; 
Stew  Smith,  Robert  Williams;  Anne  Schuyler,  Jean 
Harlow;  Grayson,  Reginald  Owen;  Mrs.  Schuyler, 
Louise  Closser  Hale;  Conroy,  Edmund  Breese;  Bingy, 
Walter  Catlett;  Michael,  Donald  Dillaway;  Smylhe, 
Halliwell  Hobbs. 

"RANGE  FEUD,  THE" — Columbla.— From  the 
story  by  Milton  Krims.  Adapted  by  Milton  Krims. 
Directed  by  Ross  Lederman.     The  cast:  Buck  Gor; 


What's  this?  Are  we  going  back  to 
the  old  hobble  skirt?  It  certainly 
looks  as  if  you  girls  will  have  to  be 
helped  on  and  off  running  boards  if 
fashion  brings  back  the  sort  of  thing 
Claire  Maynard  is  showing  here.  Note 
that  slit  in  front,  and  the  draped  effect 
— we  bet  some  of  you  still  have  models 
like  this  in  the  old  attic  trunk 


don.  Buck  Jones;  Clin!  Turner,  John  Wayne;  Jud- 
Wallon,  Susan  Fleming;  John  Walton,  Ed  Le  Sainty 
Dad  Turner.  William  Walling;  Hank,  Wallace  Mac- 
Donald;     Vandall,    Harry    Woods;    Biggers,    Frank 

Austin. 


Photoplay  Magazine  for  December,  1931  I  27 

How  Society  Women  and 
Stage  Beauties  Banish 


"RIDERS  OF  THE  PURPLE  SAGE"— Fox.— 
From  the  novel  by  Zane  Grey.  Adapted  by  John  F. 
Goodrich.  Directed  by  Hamilton  MacFadden. 
The  cast:  Lassiter,  George  O'Brien;  Jane  Wither- 
sleen.  Marguerite  Churchill;  Judge  Dyer,  Noah 
Beery;  Bess,  Yvonne  Pelletier;  Venters.  James  Todd; 
Oldring,  Stanley  Fields;  Judkins.  Lester  Dorr;  Tull, 
Frank  McGlynn,  Jr.;  Fay,  Shirley  Nails. 

"SECRET  SERVICE"— Radio  Pictures.— From 
the  play  by  William  Gillette.  Adapted  by  Bernard 
Schubert.  Directed  by  J.  Walter  Ruben.  The  cast: 
Captain  Thome,  Richard  Dix;  Edith  Varney.  Shirley 
Grey;  Lieut.  Dumont,  William  Post,  Jr.;  Arelsford. 
Gavin  Gordon;  General  Gran!.  Fred  Warren;  Mrs. 
Varney,  Nance  O'Neil;  Caroline,  Florence  Lake; 
Jonas,  Clarence  Muse;  Howard  larney.  Harold 
Kinney;  Israel,  Eugene  Jackson;  General  Randolph, 
Frederick  Burton;  Lieut.  Foray,  Carl  Gerard;  Martha, 
Emma  Reed. 

.  "SIN  OF  MADELON  CLAUDET.  THE"— M-C- 
M. — From  the  play  "The  Lullaby"  by  Edward 
Knoblock.  Continuity  by  Charles  MacArthur. 
Directed  by  Edgar  Selwyn.  The  cast:  Madelon, 
Helen  Hayes;  Carlo  Boretti,  Lewis  Stone;  Larry, 
Neil  Hamilton;  Dr.  Claudel,  Robert  Young;  Victor, 
Cliff  Edwards;  Dr.  Dulac,  Jean  Hersholt;  Rosalie, 
Marie  Prevost;  Alice,  Karen  Morley;  Photographer, 
Charles  Winninger;  Hubert,  Alan  Hale;  Rogel,  Halli- 
well  Hobbes;  5/.  Jacques,  Lennox  Pawle;  Claudel, 
Russ  Powell. 

"SPIRIT  OF  NOTRE  DAME.  THE"— Univer- 
sal.— From  the  screen  play  by  Richard  Schayer  and 


Dale  Van  Every.  Directed  by  Russell  Mack.  The 
cast:  Bucky  O'Brien,  Lew  Ayres;  Jim  Stewart,  Wil- 
liam Bake  well;  Truck  McCall.  Andy  Devine;  Wasp, 
Harry  Harris;  Coach,  J.  Farrcll  MacDonald;  Frank 
Carideo.  Frank  Carideo;  "The  Four  Horsemen," 
Don  Miller.  Elmer  Laydcn,  Jim  Crowley.  Harry 
StuhldreheT;  Assistant  Coach,  Nat  Pendleton; 
Peggy,  Sally  Blane. 

"STRICTLY  DISHONORABLE"— Universal. 
— From  the  play  by  Preston  Sturgcs.  Screen  play  by 
Gladys  Lehman.  Directed  by  John  M.  Stahl.  The 
cast:  Gus.  Paul  Lukas;  Isabdle,  Sidney  Fox;  Judge 
Dempsey.  Lewis  S.  Stone;  Henry.  George  Meeker; 
Tomasso,  William  Ricciardi;  Mulligan,  Sidney 
Toler;  Cook,  Aldo  Franchetti;  Waiter,  Carlo  Schipa; 
Waiter,  Samuel  Bonello. 

"TERROR  BY  NIGHT"— Famous  Attractions. 
— From  the  story  by  Samuel  Spewack.  Adapted  by 
Samuel  Spewack.  Directed  by  Thornton  Freeland. 
The  cast:  Lois  Martin,  Una  Merkel;  Arthur  Jones, 
William  Collier,  Jr.;  Bella,  ZaSu  Pitts;  Captain 
McGoiinn,  Purnell  Pratt;  Larson,  Clyde  Crook; 
Lewis  LeRoy,  Kalf  Harolde;  Tess,  June  Clyde;  Sylvia 
Folsom,  Rita  LeRoy;  Brannigan.  Paul  Hurst;  Jess, 
Clarence  Muse;  Gunner,  Nat  Pendleton;  Herbert 
Folsom,  Hooper  Atchley;  Moll,  Greta  Granstedt; 
Mike,  Mike  Donlin. 

"WAY  BACK  HOME"— Radio  Pictures.— From 
the  story  by  Jane  Murfin.  Directed  by  William 
Seiter.  The  cast:  Seth  Parker,  Phillips  Lord;  Ma 
Parker,  Effie  Palmer;  "Liz,"  Mrs.  Phillips  Lord; 
"Cephus,"  Bennett  Kilpack;  "Captain,"  Raymond 
Hunter;  David  Clark,  Frank  Albertson;  Mary  Lucy, 
Bette  Davis;  "Wobblin  ,"  Oscar  Apfel;  Rufe  Turner, 
Stanley  Fields;  Runaway  Rosie,  Dorothy  Peterson; 
Robbie.  Frankie  Darro;  Income  Tax  Man,  Wade 
Boteler. 


My  Uncle  Egbert— WHOOPS— Meets  the  Stars 


CONTINUED  FROM  PACE   102 


"About  Theda — and  those  other  dames," 
he  said — "do  you  think  they  really  want  to 
visit  the  king?" 

I  said  they  probably  did  but  it  was  doubtful 
if  they  could  break  their  contracts  and  get 
away. 

Uncle  Egbert  seemed  relieved  no  end. 

"It  wouldn't  work,  I'm  sure.  The  king's 
wives — and  mine — wouldn't  understand."  It 
occurred  to  me  what  a  dreadful  thing  it  would 
be  for  a  man  to  have  seven  wives  who  didn't 
understand  him. 

JUST  before  he  left  he  gave  me  a  nice  little 
contraband  pearl — about  the  size  of  an  olive 
— to  give  Imogene  in  case  she  felt  bad.  She  felt 


terrible — but  not  because  of  Uncle  Egbert, 
was  the  gin. 


It 


A  S  the  train  pulled  out  Uncle  Egbert  said, 
■**-"Had  a  marvelous  time,  Bogie — great  kids 
these  movie  queens — next  time  I  come  I'll 
bring  the  king." 

And  presented  me  with  a  check  for  a  new 
automobile. 

So  you  can  see  why  I'd  at  least  like  to  thank 
Theda  Bara  for  all  she's  done  for  me. 

Maybe  when,  as  and  if  Uncle  Egbert  dies — 
ah! — maybe  then  it  will  be  revealed  that 
Theda  Bara,  and  not  I,  is  his  sole  and  only 
heir. 

I  never  thought  of  that ! 


Statement  of  the  Ownership,  Management,  Circulation,  etc.,  Required  by 
the  Act  of  Congress  of  August  24,  1912, 

of  Photoplay  Magazine  Published  Monthly  at  Chicago,  Illinois,  for  October  1,  1931 

State  of  Illinois. ]gg 
County  of  Cook/ 

Before  me.  a  Notary  Public  in  and  for  the  State  and  county  aforesaid,  personally  appeared  Kathryn  Dougherty, 
■who,  having  been  duly  sworn  according  to  law,  deposes  and  says  that  she  is  the  business  manager  of  the  Photoplay 
Magazine,  and  that  the  following  is,  to  the  best  of  her  knowledge  and  belief,  a  true  statement  of  the  ownership,  man- 
agement (and  if  a  daily  paper,  the  circulation),  etc..  of  the  aforesaid  publication  for  the  date  shown  in  the  above 
caption,  required  by  the  Act  of  August  24.  1912.  embodied  in  section  41  1,  Postal  Laws  and  Regulations,  printed  on 
the  reverse  of  this  form,  to  wit:  1.  That  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  publisher,  editor,  managing  editor,  and  busi- 
ness managers  are:  Publisher.  Photoplay  Publishing  Co..  919  N.  Michigan  Ave..  Chicago.  111.  Editor.  James  R.  Quirk, 
919  N.  Michigan  Ave.,  Chicago,  111.  Managing  Editor.  None.  Business  Manager,  Kathryn  Dougherty,  919  N. 
Michigan  Ave..  Chicago.  111.  2.  That  the  owner  is:  (If  owned  by  a  corporation,  its  name  and  address  must  be  stated 
and  also  immediately  thereunder  the  names  and  addresses  of  stockholders  owning  or  holding  one  per  cent  or  more  of 
total  amount  of  stock.  If  not  owned  by  a  corporation,  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  individual  owneis  must  be 
given.  If  owned  by  a  firm,  company,  or  other  unincorporated  concerns,  its  name  and  address,  as  well  as  those  of  each 
individual  member,  must  be  given.)  Photoplay  Publishing  Company.  Chicago.  111.;  Estate  of  E.  M.  Colvin.  Chicago. 
III.;  R.  M.  Eastman,  Chicago,  111.;  J.  R.  Quirk.  Chicago.  111.;  Kathryn  Dougherty.  Chicago.  III.;  Jay  A.  Colvin.  Chicago, 
III.  3.  That  the  known  bondholders,  mortgagees  and  other  security  holders  owning  or  holding  1  per  cent  oi  more  of 
total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages,  or  other  securities  are:  (If  there  are  none,  so  state.)  James  R.  Quirk,  Chicago. 
III.;  Kathryn  Dougherty.  Chicago.  III.;  R.  M.  Eastman,  Chicago.  111.;  First  Union  Trust  and  Savings  Bank — Trustee 
— Chicago,  111.;  Jay  A.  Colvin.  Chicago.  III.;  Foreman  State  Trust  and  Savings  Bank — Trustee — Chicago.  III.  4.  That 
the  two  paragraphs  next  above,  giving  the  names  of  the  owners,  stockholders,  and  security  holders,  if  any,  contain  not 
only  the  list  of  stockholders  and  security  holders  as  they  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  but  also,  in  cases  where 
the  stockholder  or  security  holder  appears  upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustee  or  in  any  other  fiduciary  relation 
the  name  of  the  person  or  corporation  for  whom  such  trustee  is  acting,  is  given;  also  that  the  said  two  paragraphs 
contain  statements  embracing  affiant's  full  knowledge  and  belief  as  to  the  circumstances  and  conditions  under  which 
stockholders  and  security  holders  who  do  not  appear  upon  the  books  of  the  company  as  trustees,  hold  stock  and  securi- 
ties in  a  capacity  other  than  that  of  a  bona  fide  owner;  and  this  affiant  has  no  reason  to  believe  that  any  other  person, 
association,  or  corporation  has  any  interest  direct  or  indirect  in  the  said  stock,  bonds,  or  other  securities  than  as  so 
stated  by  her.  5.  That  the  average  number  of  copies  of  each  issue  of  this  publication  sold  or  distributed  through  the 
mails  or  otherwise,  to  paid  subscribers  during  the  six  months  preceding  the  date  shown  above  is (This  informa- 
tion is  required  from  daily  publications  only.) 

KATHRYN   DOUGHERTY. 

(Signature  of  Business  Manager.) 
Sworn  to  and  subscribed  before  me  this  29th  day  of  September,  1931. 
(SEAL]  M.   EVELYN    McEVILLY. 

(My  commission  expires  January  20.  1935) 


FAT 

THE 
SAFE 
WAY 

vn  k~    m 

Once 
you  start  to 
takea  half  tea- 
spoonful     of 
Kruschen  Salts  in  a 
glass    of    hot    water 
every   morning   before 
breakfast  your  fight  on  fat 
is  WON! 

Herein   are    the    facts    why 
Kruschen   is    different    from    and 
superior  to  other  reducing  treatments: 

Kruschen  is  more  than  just  a  mere  laxative 
salt— it's  an  ideal  blend  of  6  SEPARATE 
minerals  which  not  only  eliminate  poisons 
and  waste  accumulations  but  which  help 
every  gland,  nerve  and  body  organ  to 
function  properly — which  brings  a  marvelous 
degree  of  robust  health,  chic  slenderness  and 
physical  attractiveness.  Many  women  hasten 
results  by  going  a  little  lighter  on  potatoes, 
pastries  and  fatty  meats. 

Mrs.  Bessie  Evans  of  Jamestown,  NY.  writes:  "I  lost 
1 4  lbs.  before  starting  the  second  bottle  of  Kruschen — 
I  em  not  only  delighted  with  the  big  loss  of  fat  but  I 
feel  so  much  stronger  end  healthier.  I  heartily  recom- 
mend  Kruschen  to  all  overweight  women." 

Start  TO-DAY   to   look   and   feel    years 

younger.    An  85c  bottle  of  Kruschen  lasts 

4  weeks  and  is  sold  by  leading  druggists 

thruout  the  world. 

KRUSCHEN  SALTS 

"It's  the  LITTLE  DAILY  DOSE  that  does  it" 


FEEL  DIZZY? 


HEADACHY,    bilious, 
constipated?  Take  NR 
—  NATURE'S  REMEDY  — 

tonight.  This  mild*safe 
vegetable  remedy  will  have 
you  feeling  fine  by  morn- 
ing. Clean  your  system  of 
poisons  in  the  natural  manner 
without  a  sign  of  griping  or 
discomfort. 

Sale,  mild  purely  vegetable 

— at  druggists — only  25c. 
A.  H.  LEWIS  MEDICINE  COMPANY,  ST.  LOUIS,  MO 


TONIGHT 

TOMORROW    ALRIGHT 


TUMS  FOR   THE   TUMMY 


1l)M$ 


STOPS  I™  — 

LUCKY  TIGER,  a  proven  germicide, 
^corrects  dandruff  and  scalp  irritations. 
"Vorld's   largest    seller  — Money- 
Back  Guarantee.  Safe  for  adults 
i  and  children.     At  all  Barbers, 
Druggists  and  Beauty  Parlors. 


LUCKY  TICER 


Cal  York's  Monthly  Broadcast  from  Hollywood 


Where's  your  other  eye,  Dolores? 
Even  though  this  hat  does  hide  one  of 
the  beautiful  Del  Rio  orbs,  we  must 
say  it  is  smart.  Tricky  the  way  those 
quills  swirl  around  to  fit  into  the  dip 
of  the  brim,  don't  you  think?  It's 
brown  felt  with  yellowish  brown  quills 


Ty RECTOR  JOHN  FORD,  handling  a  mob 
-'-'scene  of  a  half  hundred  big,  tough  guys, 
was  struck  by  one's  unusual  resemblance  to 
Jack  Holt. 

The  extra  not  only  facially  was  a  ringer  for 
Holt,  but  physically,  too — Holt  being  one  of 
the  huskiest  athletes  in  pictures. 

Finally  Ford,  between  shots,  called  the  man 
to  him. 

"I  suppose,"  he  remarked,  "that  many 
people  have  told  you  you  look  like  Jack 
Holt. " 

From  the  big,  tough,  husky  extra  came  a 
thin,  girlish,  piping  reply. 

"Oh,  dear  me,  yeth.  Jutht  oodles  and 
oodles  of  people  have  told  me  tho." 

So  Ford  sent  him  back  to  work. 

\TARIETY tells  the  story  about  a 
man  who  builds  biceps  by  meta- 
physical culture  (yes,  honestly!)  and 
who  stopped  at  the  Will  Hays  office 
to  request  that  a  talkie  be  taken  of 
him  in  action. 

It  was  explained  that  it  was  im- 
possible. 

"Oh,  you  ought  to  give  me  a  half 
hour  anyway,"  said  the  gentleman, 
who  wears  a  turban.  "You  gave  it 
to  George  Bernard  Shawl" 

T  INDA  W ATKINS,  who  did  such  a  grand 
■*" 'job  in  "Sob  Sister"  is  a  newcomer,  but  she 
knows  what  she  wants  to  wear  in  pictures — 
There    was   a    temporary   designer   at    the 


[continued  from  page  101  ] 

studio,  who  sent  Linda  a  couple  of  sports  suits 
for  the  picture.  She  took  one  look  at  them, 
"And  I  won't  wear  those,"  she  stated  em- 
phatically. And  she  didn't.  She  helped  to 
design  the  substitutes  herself. 

Not  so  dumb.  What  newcomers  wear  is 
important. 

V\  THEN  Linda  Watkins  arrived  in  Hollywood 
vv  somebody  suggested  she  get  a  swanky 
Spanish  house  in  Beverly  Hills  and  put  on 
the  "dog." 

"A  big  front  goes  a  long  way  in  Holly- 
wood," she  was  told. 

Linda  went  to  Beverly  Hills,  chose  a  modest 
little  English  home,  set  far  back  from  the 
street  amidst  much  shrubbery. 

"Why  all  the  bushes?"  someone  asked  her. 

"So  I  won't  have  to  look  at  the  swanky 
Spanish  houses  around  me  in  which  I  was 
supposed  to  put  on  the  dog,"  she  answered. 

pETE  SMITH,  head  of  Metro-Goldwyn- 
■*-  Mayer  studio  publicity  department,  has 
spent  years,  and  grown  thin  and 
emaciated  placating  stars  who  complain 
about  the  lack  of  publicity  he  gives  them. 
Pete  has  just  made  a  hit  making  "shorts" 
for  his  company.  Last  month  he  saw  his 
name  over  a  theater  entrance  and  complained 
that  the  sign  wasn't  big  enough. 

■p\OUGLAS  FAIRBANKS  (Senior)  plans 
■*~^an  air  tour  of  the  South  American  wilds 
as  his  next  movie-making  project.  It  will  be 
his  second  travel  film,  since  his  announce- 
ment that  he  will  never  make  another  "story" 
film. 

'T^HERE'S  a  carpenter  working  on 
*•  the  "Flying  High"  set  at  M-G-M 
who  carries  twenty-five  small  nails 
in  his  mouth  day  and  night.  Cer- 
tainly, he's  swallowed  one  now  and 
then,  but  he's  not  worried.  He  uses 
them  as  you  use  chewing  gum.  At 
least  he's  always  sure  of  getting 
plenty  of  iron  in  his  blood.  This  is  a 
true  story. 

T>  ENEE  ADOREE  spent  her  birthday  in  the 
-•^-Arizona  sanitarium,  where  she  has  been  for 
more  than  a  year,  reading  literally  thousands 
of  telegrams  and  opening  scores  oi  gifts.  Her 
friends  in  Hollywood  were  so  afraid  that  other 
friends  would  forget  the  day  that  they  sent 
out  reminding  notes  and  telephone  calls  to 
each  other. 

She  was  showered  with  greetings. 

"K  A  ONROE  OWSLEY  took  his  screen  career 
■'■"■so  seriously  that  it  landed  him  in  a 
sanitarium.  Tired  of  being  typed  as  a  cad 
and  a  bounder  in  his]  movie  roles,  he  rebelled 
so  aggressively  that  M-G-M  allowed  him  to 
cancel  his  contract  with  them.  But,  worn  out 
by  the  strain,  Monroe  has  been  ill  ever  since. 
Now  he  is  looking  for  a  producer  who  will 
let  him  play  the  good-boy  roles  he  likes. 

"D  EGINALD  DENNY  wanted  to  be  a 
■^painter  when  he  was  a  lad,  so  he  often 
took  his  easel  to  the  British  Royal  Galleries 
to  make  copies  of  the  masters. 


One  day  a  frowsy  fellow  with  a  torn  coat 
looked  over  his  shoulder  and  made  a  sug- 
gestion. 

Denny,  young  and  cock  sure,  spurned  the 
old  man's  help. 

Later  he  discovered  the  man  to  be  the 
president  of  the  Royal  Academy ! 

"That  was  my  first  lesson  in  learning  not 
to  judge  men  by  their  outward  appearance!" 
Denny  says  now. 

F  OLA  LANE  (just  recent  Mrs.  Lew  Ayres) 
■'"'went  into  bankruptcy  because  her  creditors 
attached  Lew's  salary.  .  .  .  Hollywood's  new- 
est and  favorite  sport  is  cricket.  ...  So  bally 
English.  .  .  . 


Here's  how  Santa  Claus  remembers 
good  little  platinum  blondes.  That  is 
a  dazzling  array  lovely  Claire  Luce  is 
wearing — bracelets,  pin  and  stunning 
pendant  necklace  are  from  the  famous 
French  house,  Mauboussin.  And 
Seymour  seems  to  think  the  Lelong 
evening  dress  in  green  crepe  with 
white  embroidery  is  one  of  the  best 
he  has  seen  this  season 


His  disguise  was  perfect  -did  she 
really  know  it  was  her  husband 
when  she  surrendered  to  him  ♦  ♦  ♦  ? 


Don't  miss  this  new  type 
of  love  story — saucy — 
witty — naughty — gay  I 


Enjoy    this    daringly    unconventional 

picture   which   marks   the   screen   debut 

of  the  greatest   lovers  on   the  American 

stage — in     a    picturization    of    their 

famous     success — "The 

Guardsman".  Here  is  a 

totally   new   thrill 

for  the  motion 

picture  public. 


t 


^FOHTANME 


^— jj,         famous  stars  of  "Goat  Song,"   "Caprice,"  "Elizabeth 
/  v\  C  ^e  Queen"  ana<  other  stage  triumphs,  in 

Roland  Young  —  Zasu  Pitts  M^j 


Idols  of  the  American  Stage,  they  bring 
their  genius  to  the  talking  screen  in 
the  prize  picture  of  the  year.  A  new 
triumph   for   Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer! 


From  the  play  by  Ferenc  M.olnar 
Screen  play  by  Ernest  Vajda 
Directed  by  SIDNEY  FRANKLIN 


^B-j  Courtesy 

of  the  Theatre 

Guild,  Inc. 


This  year 
you  can  yive 

FRESH 

ciyarettes 

NEVER  before  at  Christmas  could  you 
give  what  you  can  send  to  friends 
this  year — because  this  is  the  first 
Christmas  of  Camel  Cigarettes  in  the 
Camel  Humidor  Pack. 

That  means  you  can  give  the  un- 
matched flavor  of  fine,  clean,  dust-free, 
fragrant  tobacco  —  in  cigarettes  which 
stay  fresh  till  the  last  Camel  in  the  last 
package  has  been  enjoyed. 

Contrast  that  with  the  bite-and-burn 
of  dried-out  or  parched  dry  tobaccos, 
and  you'll  know  why  Camels  make  such 
a  welcome  gift. 

No  matter  how  many  miles  you  send 
ihem,  no  matter  if  someone  else  happens 
to  send  Camels  too —  the  fineTurkish  and 
mild  Domestic  tobaccos  in  Camels  will 
keep  mild  and  cool  and  throat-easy,thanks 
to  the  moisture-proof  wrapping  which 
seals  Camel  flavor  in  the  Camel  Humidor 
Pack. 

Be  smart  this  Christmas.  Make  your 
shopping  easy  —  and  your  gifts  wel- 
come by  sending  Camels  straight  through 
the  list. 

Tune  in  CAMEL  QUARTER  HOUR  featuring 
Morton  Downey  and  Tony  Wons  —  Camel 
Orchestra,  direction  Jacques  Renard  — 
Columbia  System  —  every  night  except  Sunday 

Q  Don't  remove  the  moisture-proof  wrapping  from 
your  package  of  Camels  after  you  open  it.  The 
Camel  Humidor  Pack  is  protection  against  perfume 
and  powder  odors,  dust  and  germs.  Even  in  offices 
and  homes,  in  the  dry  atmosphere  of  artificial 
heat,  the  Camel  Humidor  Pack  deliver;  fresh 
Camels  and  keeps  them  right  until  the  last  one 
has  been  smoked 


AM  K  LS 

Mi  hi  .  .  NO   CIGARETTY  AFTER-TASTE 


Q1931,  It.  J.  Reynolds  Tobacco  Company,  Winston-Salem,  N.  C. 


